After I had paid an unsuccessful visit to Herr Bauernfeld, relative to the same business, I
concluded that Vienna was of no more use for the present, and gave myself up to the exceptionally
stimulating impressions produced by the public life of the motley crowd, which of late had
undergone such marked changes. If the student band, which was always represented in great numbers
in the streets, had already amused me with the extraordinary constancy with which its members
sported the German colours, I was very highly diverted by the effect produced when at the theatres
I saw even the ices served by attendants in the black, red, and gold of Austria. At the Karl
Theatre, in the Leopold quarter of the town, I saw a new farce, by Nestroy, which actually
introduced the character of Prince Metternich, and in which this statesman, on being asked
whether he had poisoned the Duke of Reichstadt, had to make his escape behind the wings as
an unmasked sinner. On the whole, the appearance of this imperial city--usually so fond of
pleasure--impressed one with a feeling of youthful and powerful confidence. And this impression
was revived in me when I heard of the energetic participation of the youthful members of the
population, during those fateful October days, in the defence of Vienna against the troops
of Prince Windischgratz.

On the homeward journey I touched at Prague, where I found my old friend Kittl (who had grown
very much more corpulent) still in the most terrible fright about the riotous events which
had taken place there. He seemed to be of opinion that the revolt of the Tschech party against
the Austrian Government was directed at him personally, and he thought fit to reproach himself
with the terrible agitation of the time, which he believed he had specially inflamed by his
composition of my operatic text of Die Franzosen vor Nizza, out of which a kind of revolutionary
air seemed to have become very popular. To my great pleasure, on my homeward journey I had
the company of Hanel the sculptor, whom I met on the steamer. There travelled with us also
a Count Albert Nostitz, with whom he had just settled up his business concerning the statue
of the Emperor Charles IV., and he was in the gayest mood, as the extremely insecure state
of Austrian paper money had led to his being paid at a great profit to himself, in silver coin
in accordance with his agreement. I was very pleased to find that, thanks to this circumstance,
he was in such a confident mood, and so free from prejudice, that on, arriving at Dresden he
accompanied me the whole way--a very long distance--from the landing-stage at which we had
left the steamer to my house, in an open carriage; and this despite the fact that he very well
knew that, only a few weeks before, I had caused a really terrible stir in this very city.

As far as the public were concerned, the storm seemed quite to have died down, and I was able
to resume my usual occupations and mode of life without any further trouble. I am sorry to
say, however, that my old worries and anxieties started afresh; I stood in great need of money,
and had not the vaguest notion whither to go in search of it. I then examined very thoroughly
the answer I had received during the preceding winter to my petition for a higher salary. I
had left it unread, as the modifications made in it had already disgusted me. If I had till
now believed that it was Herr von Luttichau who had brought about the increase of salary I
had demanded, in the shape of a supplement which I was to receive annually--in itself a humiliating
thing--I now saw to my horror that all the time there had been no mention save of one single
supplement, and that there was nothing to show that this should be repeated annually. On learning
this, I saw that I should now be at the hopeless disadvantage of coming too late with a remonstrance
if I should attempt to make one; so there was nothing left for me but to submit to an insult
which, under the circumstances, was quite unprecedented. My feelings towards Herr von Luttichau,
which shortly before had been rather warm owing to his supposed kind attitude towards me during
the last disturbance, now underwent a serious change, and I soon had a new reason (actually
connected with the above-mentioned affair) for altering my favourable opinion of him, and for
turning finally against him for good and all. He had informed me that the members of the Imperial
Orchestra had sent him a deputation demanding my instant dismissal, as they thought that it
affected their honour to be any longer under a conductor who had compromised himself politically
to the extent which I had. He also informed me that he had not only reprimanded them very severely,
but that he had also been at great pains to pacify them concerning me. All this, which Luttichau
had put in a highly favourable light, had latterly made me feel very friendly towards him.
Then, however, as the result of inquiries into the matter, I heard accidentally through members
of the orchestra that the facts of the case were almost exactly the reverse. What had happened
was this, that the members of the Imperial Orchestra had been approached on all sides by the
officials of the court, and had been not only earnestly requested to do what Luttichau had
declared they had done of their own accord, but also threatened with the displeasure of the
King, and of incurring the strongest suspicion if they refused to comply. In order to protect
themselves against this intrigue, and to avoid all evil consequences should they not take the
required step, the musicians had turned to their principal, and had sent him a deputation,
through which they declared that, as a corporation of artists, they did not in the least feel
called upon to mix themselves up in a matter that did not concern them. Thus the halo with
which my former attachment to Herr von Luttichau had surrounded him at last disappeared for
good and all, and it was chiefly my shame at having been so very much upset by his false conduct
that now inspired me for ever with such bitter feelings for this man. What determined this
feeling even more than the insults I had suffered, was the recognition of the fact that I was
now utterly incapable of ever being able to enlist his influence in the cause of theatrical
reform, which was so dear to me. It was natural that I should learn to attach ever less and
less importance to the mere retention of the post of orchestral conductor on so extraordinarily
inadequate and reduced a salary; and in keeping to this office, I merely bowed to what was
an inevitable though purely accidental circumstance of a wretched fate. I did nothing to make
the post more intolerable, but, at the same time, I moved not a finger to ensure its permanence.

The very next thing I must do was to attempt to establish my hopes of a larger income, so sadly
doomed hitherto, upon a very much sounder basis. In this respect it occurred to me that I might
consult my friend Liszt, and beg him to suggest a remedy for my grievous position. And lo and
behold, shortly after those fateful March days, and not long before the completion of my Lohengrin
score, to my, very great delight and astonishment, the very man I wanted walked into my room.
He had come from Vienna, where he had lived through the 'Barricade Days,' and he was going
on to Weimar, where he intended to settle permanently. We spent an evening together at Schumann's,
had a little music, and finally began a discussion on Mendelssohn and Meyerbeer, in which Liszt
and Schumann differed so fundamentally that the latter, completely losing his temper, retired
in a fury to his bedroom for quite a long time. This incident did indeed place us in a somewhat
awkward position towards our host, but it furnished us with a most amusing topic of conversation
on the way home, I have seldom seen Liszt so extravagantly cheerful as on that night, when,
in spite of the cold and the fact that he was clad only in ordinary evening-dress, he accompanied
first the music director Schubert, and then myself, to our respective homes. Subsequently I
took advantage of a few days' holiday in August to make an excursion to Weimar, where I found
Liszt permanently installed and, as is well known, enjoying a life of most intimate intercourse
with the Grand Duke. Even though he was unable to help me in my affairs, except by giving me
a recommendation which finally proved useless, his reception of me on this short visit was
so hearty and so exceedingly stimulating, that it left me profoundly cheered and encouraged.
On returning to Dresden I tried as far as possible to curtail my expenses and to live within
my means; and, as every means of assistance failed me, I resorted to the expedient of sending
out a circular letter addressed jointly to my remaining creditors, all of whom were really
friends; and in this I told them frankly of my situation, and enjoined them to relinquish their
demands for an indefinite time, till my affairs took a turn for the better, as without this
I should certainly never be in a position to satisfy them. By this means they would, at all
events, be in a position to oppose my general manager, whom I had every reason to suspect of
evil designs, and who would have been only too glad to seize any signs of hostility towards
me, on the part of my creditors, as a pretext for taking the worst steps against me. The assurance
I required was given me unhesitatingly; my friend Pusinelli, and Frau Klepperbein (an old friend
of my mother's), even going so far as to declare that they were prepared to give up all claim
to the money they had lent me. Thus, in some measure reassured, and with my position relative
to Luttichau so far improved that I could consult my own wishes as to whether and when I should
give up my post entirely, I now continued to fulfil my duties as a conductor as patiently and
conscientiously as I was able, while with great zeal I also resumed my studies, which were
carrying me ever further and further afield.

