The French Embassador having been recalled from St. James's, General la Hitte, the Minister
of War, read to the National Assembly on the 16th, a letter he had written to the French Embassador
at London, in consequence of infraction, by England, of the conditions on which France had
agreed to act as mediator in the affairs of Greece. The letter, after a summary of the circumstances
of the misunderstanding, and the demand that it should be set to rights, proceeded to say:
"This demand not having been listened to, it has appeared to us that the prolongation of your
sojourn at London is not compatible with the dignity of the Republic. The President has ordered
me to invite you to return to France, after having accredited M. Marescalchi in quality of
Chargé d'Affaires," and concludes, "You will have the goodness to read this present dispatch
to Lord Palmerston." This announcement was received by the Right with loud acclamations, the
Left, or Mountain party remaining silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

In GERMANY the Erfurt Parliament, having finished the revisal of its proposed Constitution
for the German Union, dissolved itself, and has been succeeded by two separate Convocations.
The one is held in Frankfort, and consists of the representatives of the old Germanic confederation,
convoked by the Emperor of Austria, with the object of re-organizing that confederation. This
conference includes all the secondary States of the old confederation except Oldenburg and
Frankfort itself, though the assembly is held within its own walls. The other, held at Berlin,
was assembled by the king of Prussia, and consisted of twenty-one heads of sovereign houses,
with representatives of the three Hanse towns, Hamburg, Bremen, and Lubeck. This last convention
has finished its sittings, and the members, previous to separating, were entertained by the
king at a banquet on the 16th, when his majesty addressed them in a speech expressive of his
satisfaction with their proceedings.

On the 22d An Attempt was Made on the Life of the King of Prussia, by a Serjeant of artillery
named Sesseloge, who fired a pistol at him as he was setting out for Potsdam, and wounded him
slightly in the arm. The assassin was immediately apprehended.

       *       *       *       *       *

The only political news from SPAIN during the month, related to some palace intrigues, in which
the Queen, King-Consort, and General Narvaez were concerned. One evening in the last week of
April the King suddenly notified to General Narvaez and the rest of the cabinet his intention
of quitting Madrid in order not to be present at the accouchement of the Queen. After exhausting
all means of persuasion to induce him to change his purpose, but which were of no avail, a
council of ministers was held, in which it was decided to oppose by force the King's departure.
His Majesty was placed under arrest. Sentries were stationed at the door of his apartment,
and the King remained a prisoner during four hours, at the end of which time his Majesty capitulated,
and even consented to accompany the Queen in an open carriage in her usual evening drive on
the Prado.

After a Drought of Five Years, the province of Murcia has been visited by a copious rain. It
was curious to observe the young children who had never seen rain in their lives, evince as
much alarm as if some frightful accident had happened. Rain also has fallen in the vast "Huerta,"
or garden-land of Valencia: the simple inhabitants of the villages, in the height of their
joy, have carried their tutelary saints about the streets with bands of rustic music.

At about a league from Saragossa a Powder-mill exploded and many lives were lost. Parts of
human bodies, remnants of clothing, and the remains of beasts of burden, were found scattered
in every direction. The edifice was shattered to pieces.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since the Pope has established himself in ROME, that capital has been very quiet. The French
commandant, General Baraguay d'Hilliers, has returned to Paris, but the French troops remain.
The Pope adheres to his high-handed measures of reaction. Rome is full of mysterious rumors,
not entitled, however, to much credit. The Pope is accused of an attempt to escape from that
city, and his continuance there is only attributed to the vigilance with which his movements
are watched by the French. Tuscany is about to be occupied by 14,000 Austrian troops, the time
of occupation to be determined by the will and convenience of the Cabinet of Vienna. There
is a rumor that, as a counterbalance. Savoy is to be occupied by a French army. It is feared
that plans are in agitation for the political enthrallment of all Italy.

LITERARY NOTICES.

     THE UNITY OF THE HUMAN RACES PROVED TO BE THE DOCTRINE OF
     SCRIPTURE, REASON, AND SCIENCE. By the Rev. Thomas Smyth, D.D.
     New York: George P. Putnam. 12mo, pp. 404.

The question discussed in the present volume, is one that has excited great attention among
modern savans, and more recently, has obtained a fresh interest from the speculations concerning
it by the popular scientific lecturer Professor Agassiz of Harvard University. In many respects,
Dr. Smyth has shown himself admirably qualified for the task he has undertaken. He brings to
the discussion of the subject, the resources of great and various learning, the mature results
of elaborate investigation, a familiarity with the labors of previous writers, and a lively
and attractive style of composition. The argument from Scripture is dwelt upon at considerable
length, and though presented in a forcible manner, betrays the presence of a certain tincture
of professional zeal, which will tend to vitiate the effect on the mind of the scientific reader.
Under the head of the Former Civilization of Black Races of Men, a great variety of curious
facts are adduced, showing the original sagacity and advancement in all worldly knowledge and
science, by which the family of Ham was distinguished. The testimony of a southern divine of
such high eminence as Dr. Smyth, to the primitive equality in the intellectual faculties of
the negro and European races, is not a little remarkable, and speaks well for his candor and
breadth of comprehension. The discussion of the origin of the varieties in the human race is
conducted with great ingenuity and copious erudition, but it must be admitted, hardly succeeds
in making out a case to the satisfaction of the inquirer, who regards the subject only in the
light of history and philosophy.

The influence of the theory which he opposes, on the relations of the Southern States, is considered
by Dr. Smyth to be of a different character from that set forth by many writers. He believes
that it would be suicidal to the South in the maintenance of her true position toward her colored
population. The diversity of the Black and White races was never admitted by the fathers of
the country. They always recognized the colored race which had been providentially among them
for two centuries and a half as fellow-beings with the same original attributes, the same essential
character, and the same immortal destiny. The introduction of a novel theory on the subject,
Dr. Smyth maintains, would be in the highest degree impolitic and dangerous, removing from
both master and servant the strongest bonds which now unite them, and by which they are restrained
from licentious, immoral, and cruel purposes.

Without reference to many statements, which will produce the widest latitude of opinion in
regard both to their soundness and their accuracy, the work of Dr. Smyth may be commended as
a treatise of the highest importance in the scientific discussion to which it is devoted, abounding
in materials of inestimable value to the student, filled with the proofs of rare cultivation
and scholar-like refinement, and every way creditable to the attainments and the ability of
the author and to the literature of the South. 12mo., pp. 412.

It is rarely that a subject is treated with the profound investigation, vigorous analysis,
and intelligent comprehensiveness which are exhibited in the discussion of the interesting
literary topics to which the present work is devoted. The authoress, whose name is concealed
in the mystic word Talvi, is understood to be the lady of Rev. Professor Robinson, and her
rare accomplishments in various departments of learning have long since established her intellectual
reputation in the most cultivated European circles. Usually written in her native German language,
her productions are perhaps not so extensively known in this country, although few of our educated
scholars are ignorant of her researches in a province of literature with which her name has
become, to a great degree, identified.

The volume now published is characterized by the extent and thoroughness of its investigations,
its acute and judicious criticisms, its warm-hearted recognition of true poetry, even in an
humble garb, and the force and facility of its style. The last trait is quite remarkable, considering
the writer is using a foreign language. There is little, either in the translations or the
original portion of the work, to remind us that it is the production of one to whom the language
is not native.

After describing the old, ecclesiastical Slavic Literature, the authoress proceeds to the literary
monuments of the Eastern and Western Slavi, giving an elaborate account of the Russian, Servian,
Bohemian, and Polish literatures, with glances at the achievements of several less important
branches of the great Slavic race. In the course of this discussion, a great variety of rare
and curious information is presented, of high importance to the student of ethnography and
history, and accompanied with complete and lucid references to the original sources. The most
attractive feature of the work to the general reader will doubtless be the sketch of the popular
poetry of the Slavic nations, illustrated with abundant specimens of songs and ballads, many
of which are marked with a strong natural pathos and tenderness, and all of them possessing
a certain rustic simplicity, which is usually of a very pleasing character, and seldom offensive.

     HINTS TOWARD REFORMS, in Lectures, Addresses, and other
     Writings. By Horace Greeley. New York: Harper and Brothers.
     12mo pp. 400.

A handsome volume, consisting principally of Lectures delivered before popular Lyceums and
Young Men's Associations, with several brief Essays on subjects of popular interest. The distinguished
author presents his views on the various topics which come under discussion with inimitable
frankness and good humor, and in the fresh, flowing, unaffected style, which gives such a charm
to the productions of his pen, even with readers who most strongly dissent from his conclusions.
Among the questions considered in this volume are The Emancipation of Labor, The Ideal and
the Actual of Life, The Formation of Character, The Social Architects, Alcoholic Liquors, Tobacco,
The Trade Reform, The Church and the Age, Humanity, and several others of perhaps still more
general interest. The admirers of the author, as well as all who are interested in the question
of Social Reform, whether ranking themselves among the Conservatives or Progressives, will
welcome this work as the only compact and systematic expression of his peculiar theories, now
before the public, and as a valuable manual for reference on many points which engage a large
share of attention at the present day.

     ANTONINA; OR, THE FALL OF ROME. A Romance of the Fifth Century.
     By W. Wilkie Collins. New York: Harper and Brothers. 8vo, pp.
     160.

It is long since the English press has sent forth a more truly classical and magnificent romance,
than the present narrative of some of the thrilling scenes which attended the downfall of the
Roman Empire. The author has been known heretofore by the biography of his father, the celebrated
historical and landscape painter, the friend of Coleridge and Allston; but that work gives
no promise of the splendor of imagination, and the rare constructive power which are shown
in the composition of Antonina. It is one of those rich and gorgeous portraitures, glowing
with life and radiant with beauty, which make a profound impression on their first exhibition,
and long continue to haunt the memory with their images of mingled loveliness and terror.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. and J. Sadlier have issued a translation of the Abbé Martinet's celebrated Solution of Great
Problems placed within the Reach of every Mind, with a preface by the Rt. Rev. Bishop of New
York, Dr. Hughes. This work holds a high rank in modern Catholic literature, and is brought
before the American public by Bishop Hughes in a warm introductory encomium. It discusses many
of the leading religious questions of the day in a racy and pointed style, and while opposing
what the author deems the errors of Protestantism in general, reserves its hottest fire for
modern Pantheism, Socialism, Rationalism, and other kindred innovations, which he regards as
gaseous exhalations from the bottomless pit, taking a visible form in these latter days. From
the well-known ability of the author, and the spicy relish of his pen, the work is adapted
to make a sensation beyond the pale of the Catholic Church, without taking in account the high-toned
sarcasm of the preface, in which department of composition the talents of Bishop Hughes are
unquestionable.

Harper and Brothers have issued the second number of Lossing's Field Book of the Revolution,
a work, which from the novelty of its plan and the ability of its execution, has already proved
a general favorite with the reading public. It combines the authenticity of history with the
freshness of personal narrative, and in the richness and beauty of its embellishments is hardly
surpassed by any of the serials of the day.

The same house have published an original translation of Lamartine's Past, Present, and Future
of the French Republic, which will be read with interest on account of the character of the
author, and the light it throws on the practical workings of Democracy in France, though it
has little of the fiery rhetoric of most of his former writings.

Harper and Brothers have issued a reprint of Dr. Lardner's Railway Economy in Europe and America,
a work overflowing with scientific, statistical, and practical details, and which will be considered
as essential to all who wish to comprehend the subject, in its various bearings whether engineers,
stockholders, or travelers, as fire and water to the locomotive. Dr. Lardner has brought together
the results of long and laborious research, and many portions of his descriptive narrative
are as entertaining as a novel, and more so.

D. Appleton & Co. have published The Lone Dove, an Indian story of the revolutionary period,
redolent of sentimentality and romance run wild, betraying a great waste of power on the part
of the anonymous writer, who has evidently more talent than is made use of to advantage in
the present work.

