And now was heard on the clear night air the shrill blast of a solitary trumpet breathing defiance,
and announcing to the besieged loyalists, the presence of the insurgents before the walls of
Jamestown. Exhausted by their long march, and depressed by the still gloomy prospect before
them, the thinned ranks of the rebel army required all the encouraging eloquence of their general,
to urge them forward in their perilous duty. Nor did they need it long. Drawing his wearied,
but faithful followers around him, the young and ardent enthusiast addressed them in language
like the following:

     “SOLDIERS,”

     “Animated by a desire to free your country from the incursions of a
     savage foe, you have crowned your arms with victory and your lives
     with honor. You have annihilated the Indian power in Virginia, and
     in the waters of the brook which was the witness of your victory,
     you have washed away the stains of its cruelty. The purple blood
     which dyed that fatal stream, has even now passed away; Yet your
     deeds shall survive in the name which you have given it. And future
     generations, when they look upon its calm and unstained bosom, will
     remember with grateful hearts, those brave men who have given
     security to their homes, and will bless your patriot names when
     they repeat the story of Bloody Run.

     “For this you have been proclaimed traitors to your country and
     rebels to your king. Traitors to a country within whose borders the
     Indian war whoop has been hushed by your exertions! Rebels to your
     king for preserving Virginia, the brightest jewel in his crown,
     from inevitable ruin! But though you have accomplished much, much
     yet remains undone. Then nerve your stout hearts and gird on your
     armour once more for the contest. Though your enemies are not to be
     despised, they are not to be feared. They fight as mercenaries
     uninspired by the cause which they have espoused. You battle for
     freedom, for honor and for life. Your freedom is threatened by the
     oppressions of a relentless tyrant and a subservient Assembly. Your
     honor is assailed, for you are publicly branded as traitors. Your
     lives are proscribed by those who have basely charged your
     patriotism as treason, and your defence of your country as
     rebellion. Be not dismayed with the numbers of your foes. Think
     only that it is yours to lessen them. Remember that Peace can never
     come to you, though you woo it never so sweetly. You must go to it,
     even though your way thither lay through a sea of blood. You will
     find me ever where danger is thickest. I will share your peril now
     and your reward hereafter.”

Inspired with new ardour, by the words and still more by the example of their leader, the soldiers
proceeded to the task of constructing a breastwork for their defence. Bacon himself at imminent
risk to his person, drew with his own hands the line for the entrenchment, while the soldiers
prepared for themselves a secure defence from attack by a breastwork composed of felled trees,
earth, and brushwood. It was a noble sight, I ween, to see these hardy patriots of the olden
time, nearly sinking under fatigue, yet working cheerfully and ardently in the cause of freedom—to
hear their axes ringing merrily through the still night air, and the tall forest trees falling
with a heavy crash, as they were preparing their rude fortifications; and to look up on the
cold, silent moon, as she watched them from her high path in heaven, and you might almost think,
smiled with cold disdain, to think that all their hopes would be blasted, and their ardour
checked by defeat, while she in her pride of fulness would traverse that same high arch twelve
hundred times before the day-star of freedom dawned upon the land.

Meantime the besieged loyalists having heard with surprise and consternation, the story of
Mrs. Temple and Virginia, were completely confounded. Fearing to fire a single gun, lest the
ball intended for their adversaries might pierce the heart of some innocent woman, they were
forced to await with impatience the completion of the works of the insurgents. The latter had
not the same reason for forbearance, and made several successful sorties upon the palisades,
which surrounded the town, effecting several breaches, and killing some men, but without loss
to any their own party. Furious at the successful stratagems of the rebels and fearing an accession
to their number from the surrounding country, Sir William Berkeley at length determined to
make a sally from the town, and test the strength and courage of his adversaries in an open
field. Bacon, meanwhile, having effected his object in securing a sufficient fortification,
with much courtesy dismissed the captive ladies, who went, rejoicing at their liberation, to
tell the story of their wrongs to their loyal husbands.

The garrison of Jamestown consisting of about twenty cavalier loyalists, and eight hundred
raw, undisciplined recruits, picked up by Berkeley during his stay in Accomac, were led on
firmly towards the entrenchments of the rebels, by Beverley and Ludwell, who stood high in
the confidence of the Governor, and in the esteem of the colony, as brave and chivalrous men.
Among the subordinate officers in the garrison was Alfred Bernard, rejoicing in the commission
of captain, but recently conferred, and burning to distinguish himself in a contest against
the rebels. From their posts behind the entrenchment, the insurgents calmly watched the approach
of their foes. Undismayed by their numbers, nearly four times as great as their own, they awaited
patiently the signal of their general to begin the attack. Bacon, on his part, with all the
ardour of his nature, possessed in an equal degree the coolness and prudence of a great general,
and was determined not to risk a fire, until the enemy was sufficiently near to ensure heavy
execution. When at length the front line of the assailants advanced within sixty yards of the
entrenchment, he gave the word, which was obeyed with tremendous effect, and then without leaving
their posts, they prepared to renew their fire. But it was not necessary. Despite the exhortations
and prayers of their gallant officers, the royal army, dismayed at the first fire of the enemy,
broke ranks and retreated, leaving their drum and their dead upon the field. In vain did Ludwell
exhort them, in the name of the king, to return to the assault; in vain did the brave Beverley
implore them as Virginians and Englishmen not to desert their colors; in vain did Alfred Bernard
conjure them to retrieve the character of soldiers and of men, and to avenge the cause of wronged
and insulted women upon the cowardly oppressors. Regardless alike of king, country or the laws
of gallantry, the soldiers ran like frightened sheep, from their pursuers, nor stopped in their
flight until once more safely ensconced behind their batteries, and under the protection of
the cannon from the ships. The brave cavaliers looked aghast at this cowardly defection, and
stood for a moment irresolute, with the guns of the insurgents bearing directly upon them.
Bacon could easily have fired upon them with certain effect, but with the magnanimity of a
brave man, he was struck with admiration for their dauntless courage, and with pity for their
helplessness. Nor was he by any means anxious to pursue them, for he feared lest a victory
so easily won, might be a stratagem of the enemy, and that by venturing to pursue, he might
fall into an ambuscade. Contenting himself, therefore, with the advantage he had already gained,
he remained behind his entrenchment, determined to wait patiently for the morrow, before he
commenced another attack upon the town.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

    “Let's leave this town; for they are hairbrained slaves,
    And hunger will enforce them to be more eager.
    Of old I know them; rather with their teeth
    The walls they'll tear down, than forsake the siege.”
                                                  King Henry VI.

It was very late, but there were few in Jamestown on that last night of its existence that
cared to sleep. Those who were not kept awake by the cares of state or military duties, were
yet suffering from an intense apprehension, which denied them repose. There was “hurrying to
and fro,” along Stuart street, and “whispering with white lips,” among the thronging citizens.
Ever siding with the stronger party, and inclined to attribute to the besieged Governor the
whole catalogue of evils under which the colony was groaning, many of the lower classes of
the citizens expressed their sympathy with Nathaniel Bacon, and only awaited a secret opportunity
to desert to his ranks. A conspiracy was ripening among the soldiery to open the gates to the
insurgents, and surrender at once the town and the Governor into their hands—but over-awed
by the resolute boldness of their leader, and wanting in the strength of will to act for themselves,
they found it difficult to carry their plan into execution.

Sir William Berkeley, with a few of his steady adherents and faithful friends, was anxiously
awaiting, in the large hall of the palace, the tidings of the recent sally upon the besiegers.
Notwithstanding the superior numbers of his men, he had but little confidence either in their
loyalty or courage, while he was fully conscious of the desperate bravery of the insurgents.
While hope whispered that the little band of rebels must yield to the overwhelming force of
the garrison, fear interposed, to warn him of the danger of defection and cowardice in his
ranks. As thus he sat anxiously endeavouring to guess the probable result of his sally, heavy
footsteps were heard ascending the stairs. The heart of the old Governor beat thick with apprehension,
and the damp drops wrung from him by anxiety and care, stood in cold beads upon his brow.

“What news?” he cried, in a hoarse, agitated voice, as Colonel Ludwell, Robert Beverley, and
Alfred Bernard entered the room. “But I read it in your countenances! All is lost!”

“Yes, Governor Berkeley,” said Philip Ludwell, “all is lost! we have not even the melancholy
consolation of Francis, 'that our honour is preserved.' The cowardly hinds who followed us,
fled from the first charge of the rebels, like frightened hares. All attempts to rally them
were in vain, and many of them we understand have joined with the rebels.”

As the fatal tidings fell upon his ear, Berkeley pressed his hand to his forehead, and sobbed
aloud. The heart of the brave old loyalist could bear no more—and all the haughty dignity of
his nature gave way in a flood of bitter tears. But the effect was only transient, and nerving
himself, he controlled his feelings once more by the energy of his iron will.

“How many still remain with us?” he asked, anxiously, of Ludwell.

“Alas! sir, if the rumour which we heard as we came hither be true—none, absolutely none. There
was an immense crowd gathered around the tavern, listening to the news of our defeat from one
of the soldiers, and as we passed a loud and insulting cry went up of “Long live Bacon! and
down with tyranny!” The soldiers declared that they would not stain their hands with the blood
of their fellow-subjects; the citizens as vehemently declared that the town itself should not
long harbour those who had trampled on their rights. Treason stalks abroad boldly and openly,
and I fear that the loyalty of Virginia is confined to this room.”

“Now, Heaven help me,” said Berkeley, sadly, “for the world has well nigh deserted me. And
yet, if I fall, I shall fall at my post, and the trust bestowed upon me by my king shall be
yielded only with my life.”

“It were madness to think of remaining longer here,” said Beverley; “the rebels, with the most
consummate courage, evince the most profound prudence and judgment. Before the dawn they will
bring their cannon to bear upon our ships and force them to withdraw from the harbour, and
then all means of escape being cut off, we will be forced to surrender on such terms as the
enemy may dictate.”

“We will yield to no terms,” replied Berkeley. “For myself, death is far preferable to dishonour.
Rather than surrender the trust which I have in charge, let us remain here, until, like the
brave senators of Rome, we are hacked to pieces at our posts by the swords of these barbarians.”

“But what can you expect to gain by such a desperate course,” said old Ballard, who, though
not without a sufficient degree of courage, would prefer rather to admire the heroism of the
Roman patriots in history, than to vie with them in their desperate resolution.

“I expect to retain my honour,” cried the brave old Governor. “A brave man may suffer death—he
can never submit to dishonour.”

“My honoured Governor,” said Major Beverley, whose well-known courage and high-toned chivalry
gave great effect to his counsel; “believe me, that we all admire your steady loyalty and your
noble heroism. But reflect, that you gain nothing by desperation, and it is the part of true
courage not to hazard a desperate risk without any hope of success. God knows that I would
willingly yield up my own life to preserve unsullied the honour of my country, and the dignity
of my king; but I doubt how far we serve his real interests by a deliberate sacrifice of all
who are loyal to his cause.”

“And what then would you advise?” said the Governor, in an irritated manner. “To make a base
surrender of our persons and our cause, and to grant to these insolent rebels every concession
which their insolence may choose to demand? No! gentlemen, sooner would William Berkeley remain
alone at his post, until his ashes mingled with the ashes of this palace, than yield one inch
to rebels in arms.”

“It is not necessary,” returned Beverley. “You may escape without loss of life or compromise
of honour, and reserve until a future day your vengeance on these disloyal barbarians.”

Berkeley was silent.

“Look,” continued Beverley, leading the old loyalist to the window which overlooked the river;
“by the light of dawn you can see the white sails of the Adam and Eve, as she rests at anchor
in yonder harbor. There is still time to escape before the rebels can suspect our design. Once
upon the deck of that little vessel, with her sails unfurled to this rising breeze, you may
defy the threats of the besiegers. Then once more to your faithful Accomac, and when the forces
from England shall arrive, trained bands of loyal and brave Britons, your vengeance shall then
be commensurate with the indignities you have suffered.”

Still Berkeley hesitated, but his friends could see by the quiver of his lip, that the struggle
was still going on, and that he was thinking with grim satisfaction of that promised vengeance.

