I am often asked by people who are thinking of coming here, or who want to send presents to
friends here, what to bring or send. Of course it is difficult to say, because my experience
is limited and confined to one spot at present: therefore I give my opinion very guardedly,
and acknowledge it is derived in great part from the experience of others who have been here
a long time. Amongst other wraps, I brought a sealskin jacket and muff which I happened to
have. These, I am assured, will be absolutely useless, and already they are a great anxiety
to me on account of the swarms of fish-tail moths which I see scuttling about in every direction
if I move a box or look behind a picture. In fact, there are destructive moths everywhere,
and every drawer is redolent of camphor. The only things I can venture to recommend as necessaries
are things which no one advised me to bring, and which were only random shots. One was a light
waterproof ulster, and the other was a lot of those outside blinds for windows which come,
I believe, from Japan, and are made of grass--green, painted with gay figures. I picked up
these latter by the merest accident at the Baker-street bazaar for a few shillings: they are
the comfort of my life, keeping out glare and dust in the day and moths and insects of all
kinds at night. As for the waterproof, I do not know what I should have done without it; and
little G----'s has also been most useful. It is the necessary of necessaries here--a real,
good substantial waterproof. A man cannot do better than get a regular military waterproof
which will cover him from chin to heel on horseback; and even waterproof hats and caps are
a comfort in this treacherous summer season, where a storm bursts over your head out of a blue
dome of sky, and drenches you even whilst the sun is shining brightly.

A worse climate and country for clothes of every kind and description cannot be imagined. When
I first arrived I thought I had never seen such ugly toilettes in all my life; and I should
have been less than woman (or more--which is it?) if I had not derived some secret satisfaction
from the possession of at least prettier garments. What I was vain of in my secret heart was
my store of cotton gowns. One can't very well wear cotton gowns in London; and, as I am particularly
fond of them, I indemnify myself for going abroad by rushing wildly into extensive purchases
in cambrics and print dresses. They are so pretty and so cheap, and when charmingly made, as
mine were (alas, they are already things of the past!), nothing can be so satisfactory in the
way of summer country garb. Well, it has been precisely in the matter of cotton gowns that
I have been punished for my vanity. For a day or two each gown in turn looked charming. Then
came a flounce or bordering of bright red earth on the lower skirt and a general impression
of red dust and dirt all over it. That was after a drive into Maritzburg along a road ploughed
up by ox-wagons. Still, I felt no uneasiness. What is a cotton gown made for if not to be washed?
Away it goes to the wash! What is this limp, discolored rag which returns to me iron-moulded,
blued until it is nearly black, rough-dried, starched in patches, with the fringe of red earth
only more firmly fixed than before? Behold my favorite ivory cotton! My white gowns are even
in a worse plight, for there are no two yards of them the same, and the grotesque mixture of
extreme yellowness, extreme blueness and a pervading tinge of the red mud they have been washed
in renders them a piteous example of misplaced confidence. Other things fare rather better--not
much--but my poor gowns are only hopeless wrecks, and I am reduced to some old yachting dresses
of ticking and serge. The price of washing, as this spoiling process is pleasantly called,
is enormous, and I exhaust my faculties in devising more economical arrangements. We can't
wash at home, for the simple reason that we have no water, no proper appliances of any sort,
and to build and buy such would cost a small fortune. But a tall, white-aproned Kafir, with
a badge upon his arm, comes now at daylight every Monday morning and takes away a huge sackful
of linen, which is placed, with sundry pieces of soap and blue in its mouth, all ready for
him. He brings it back in the afternoon full of clean and dry linen, for which he receives
three shillings and sixpence. But this is only the first stage. The things to be starched have
to be sorted and sent to one woman, and those to be mangled to another, and both lots have
to be fetched home again by Tom and Jack. (I have forgotten to tell you that Jack's real name,
elicited with great difficulty, as there is a click somewhere in it, is "Umpashongwana," whilst
the pickle Tom is known among his own people as "Umkabangwana." You will admit that our substitutes
for these five-syllabled appellations are easier to pronounce in a hurry. Jack is a favorite
name: I know half a dozen black Jacks myself.) To return, however, to the washing. I spend
my time in this uncertain weather watching the clouds on the days when the clothes are to come
home, for it would be altogether too great a trial if one's starched garments, borne aloft
on Jack's head, were to be caught in a thunder-shower. If the washerwoman takes pains with
anything, it is with gentlemen's shirts, though even then she insists on ironing the collars
into strange and fearful shapes.

Let not men think, however, that they have it all their own way in the matter of clothes. White
jackets and trousers are commonly worn here in summer, and it is very soothing, I am told,
to try to put them on in a hurry when the arms and legs are firmly glued together by several
pounds of starch. Then as to boots and shoes: they get so mildewed if laid aside for even a
few days as to be absolutely offensive; and these, with hats, wear out at the most astonishing
rate. The sun and dust and rain finish up the hats in less than no time.

But I have not done with my clothes yet. A lady must keep a warm dress and jacket close at
hand all through the most broiling summer weather, for a couple of hours will bring the thermometer
down ten or twenty degrees, and I have often been gasping in a white dressing-gown at noon
and shivering in a serge dress at three o'clock on the same day. I am making up my mind that
serge and ticking are likely to be the most useful material for dresses, and, as one must have
something very cool for these burning months, tussore or foulard, which get themselves better
washed than my poor dear cottons. Silks are next to useless--too smart, too hot, too entirely
out of place in such a life as this, except perhaps one or two of tried principles, which won't
spot or fade or misbehave themselves in any way. One goes out of a warm, dry afternoon with
a tulle veil on to keep off the flies, or a feather in one's hat, and returns with the one
a limp, wet rag and the other quite out of curl. I only wish any milliner could see my feathers
now! All straight, rigidly straight as a carpenter's rule, and tinged with red dust besides.
As for tulle or crêpe-lisse frilling, or any of those soft pretty adjuncts to a simple toilette,
they are five minutes' wear--no more, I solemnly declare.

I love telling a story against myself, and here is one. In spite of repeated experiences of
the injurious effect of alternate damp and dust upon finery, the old Eve is occasionally too
strong for my prudence, and I can't resist, on the rare occasions which offer themselves, the
temptation of wearing pretty things. Especially weak am I in the matter of caps, and this is
what befell me. Imagine a lovely, soft summer evening, broad daylight, though it is half-past
seven (it will be dark directly, however): a dinner-party to be reached a couple of miles away.
The little open carriage is at the door, and into this I step, swathing my gown carefully up
in a huge shawl. This precaution is especially necessary, for during the afternoon there has
been a terrific thunderstorm and a sudden sharp deluge of rain. Besides a swamp or two to be
ploughed through as best we may, there are those two miles of deep red muddy road full of ruts
and big stones and pitfalls of all sorts. The drive home in the dark will be nervous work,
but now in daylight let us enjoy whilst we may. Of course I ought to have taken my cap in a
box or bag, or something of the sort; but that seemed too much trouble, especially as it was
so small it needed to be firmly pinned on in its place. It consisted of a centre or crown of
white crêpe, a little frill of the same, and a close-fitting wreath of deep red feathers all
round. Very neat and tidy it looked as I took my last glance at it whilst I hastily knotted
a light black lace veil over my head by way of protection during my drive. When I got to my
destination there was no looking-glass to be seen anywhere, no maid, no anything or anybody
to warn me. Into the dining-room I marched in happy unconsciousness that the extreme dampness
of the evening had flattened the crown of my cap, and that it and its frill were mere unconsidered
limp rags, whilst the unpretending circlet of feathers had started into undue prominence, and
struck straight out like a red nimbus all round my unconscious head. How my fellow-guests managed
to keep their countenances I cannot tell. I am certain I never could have sat opposite to any
one with such an Ojibbeway Indian's head-dress on without giggling. But no one gave me the
least hint of my misfortune, and it only burst upon me suddenly when I returned to my own room
and my own glass. Still, there was a ray of hope left: it might have been the dampness of the
drive home which had worked me this woe. I rushed into F----'s dressing-room and demanded quite
fiercely whether my cap had been like that all the time.

"Why, yes," F---- admitted; adding by way of consolation, "In fact, it is a good deal subdued
now: it was very wild all dinner-time. I can't say I admired it, but I supposed it was all right."

Did ever any one hear such shocking apathy? In answer to my reproaches for not telling me,
he only said, "Why, what could you have done with it if you had known? Taken it off and put
it in your pocket, or what?"

I don't know, but anything would have been better than sitting at table with a thing only fit
for a May-Day sweep on one's head. It makes me hot and angry with myself even to think of it now.

F----'s clothes could also relate some curious experiences which they have had to go through,
not only at the hands of his washerwoman, but at those of his temporary valet, Jack (I beg
his pardon, Umpashongwana) the Zulu, whose zeal exceeds anything one can imagine. For instance,
when he sets to work to brush F----'s clothes of a morning he is by no means content to brush
the cloth clothes. Oh dear, no! He brushes the socks, putting each carefully on his hand like
a glove and brushing vigorously away. As they are necessarily very thin socks for this hot
weather, they are apt to melt away entirely under the process. I say nothing of his blacking
the boots inside as well as out, or of his laboriously scrubbing holes in a serge coat with
a scrubbing-brush, for these are errors of judgment dictated by a kindly heart. But when Jack
puts a saucepan on the fire without any water and burns holes in it, or tries whether plates
and dishes can support their own weight in the air without a table beneath them, then, I confess,
my patience runs short. But Jack is so imperturbable, so perfectly and genuinely astonished
at the untoward result of his experiments, and so grieved that the inkosacasa (I have not an
idea how the word ought to be spelt) should be vexed, that I am obliged to leave off shaking
my head at him, which is the only way I have of expressing my displeasure. He keeps on saying,
"Ja, oui, yaas," alternately, all the time, and I have to go away to laugh.

FEBRUARY 16.

I was much amused the other day at receiving a letter of introduction from a mutual friend
in England, warmly recommending a newly-arrived bride and bridegroom to my acquaintance, and
especially begging me to take pains to introduce the new-comers into the "best society." To
appreciate the joke thoroughly you must understand that there is no society here at all--absolutely
none. We are not proud, we Maritzburgians, nor are we inhospitable, nor exclusive, nor unsociable.
Not a bit. We are as anxious as any community can be to have society or sociable gatherings,
or whatever you like to call the way people manage to meet together; but circumstances are
altogether too strong for us, and we all in turn are forced to abandon the attempt in despair.
First of all, the weather is against us. It is maddeningly uncertain, and the best-arranged
entertainment cannot be considered a success if the guests have to struggle through rain and
tempest and streets ankle-deep in water and pitchy darkness to assist at it. People are hardly
likely to make themselves pleasant at a party when their return home through storm and darkness
is on their minds all the time: at least, I know I cannot do so. But the weather is only one
of the lets and hinderances to society in Natal. We are all exceedingly poor, and necessary
food is very dear: luxuries are enormously expensive, but they are generally not to be had
at all, so one is not tempted by them. Servants, particularly cooks, are few and far between,
and I doubt if even any one calling himself a cook could send up what would be considered a
fairly good dish elsewhere. Kafirs can be taught to do one or two things pretty well, but even
then they could not be trusted to do them for a party. In fact, if I stated that there were
no good servants--in the ordinary acceptation of the word--here at all, I should not be guilty
of exaggeration. If there are, all I can say is, I have neither heard of nor seen them. On
the contrary, I have been overwhelmed by lamentations on that score in which I can heartily
join. Besides the want of means of conveyance (for there are no cabs, and very few remises)
and good food and attendance, any one wanting to entertain would almost need to build a house,
so impossible is it to collect more than half a dozen people inside an ordinary-sized house
here. For my part, my verandah is the comfort of my life. When more than four or five people
at a time chance to come to afternoon tea, we overflow into the verandah. It runs round three
sides of the four rooms called a house, and is at once my day-nursery, my lumber-room, my summer-parlor,
my place of exercise--everything, in fact. And it is an incessant occupation to train the creepers
and wage war against the legions of brilliantly-colored grasshoppers which infest and devour
the honeysuckles and roses. Never was there such a place for insects! They eat up everything
in the kitchen-garden, devour every leaf off my peach and orange trees, scarring and spoiling
the fruit as well. It is no comfort whatever that they are wonderfully beautiful creatures,
striped and ringed with a thousand colors in a thousand various ways: one has only to see the
riddled appearance of every leaf and flower to harden one's heart. Just now they have cleared
off every blossom out of the garden except my zinnias, which grow magnificently and make the
devastated flower-bed still gay with every hue and tint a zinnia can put on--salmon-color,
rose, scarlet, pink, maroon, and fifty shades besides. On the veldt too the flowers have passed
by, but their place is taken by the grasses, which are all in seed. People say the grass is
rank and poor, and of not much account as food for stock, but it has an astonishing variety
of beautiful seeds. In one patch it is like miniature pampas-grass, only a couple of inches
long each seed-pod, but white and fluffy. Again, there will be tall stems laden with rich purple
grains or delicate tufts of rose-colored seed. One of the prettiest, however, is like wee green
harebells hanging all down a tall and slender stalk, and hiding within their cups the seed.
Unfortunately, the weeds and burs seed just as freely, and there is one especial torment to
the garden in the shape of an innocent-looking little plant something like an alpine strawberry
in leaf and blossom, bearing a most aggravating tuft of little black spines which lose no opportunity
of sticking to one's petticoats in myriads. They are familiarly known as "blackjacks," and
can hold their own as pests with any weed of my acquaintance.

But the most beautiful tree I have seen in Natal was an Acacia flamboyante. I saw it at D'Urban,
and I shall never forget the contrast of its vivid green, bright as the spring foliage of a
young oak, and the crown of rich crimson flowers on its topmost branches, tossing their brilliant
blossoms against a background of gleaming sea and sky. It was really splendid, like a bit of
Italian coloring among the sombre tangle of tropical verdure. It is too cold up here for this
glorious tree, which properly belongs to a far more tropical temperature than even D'Urban
can mount up to.

I am looking forward to next month and the following ones to make some little excursions into
the country, or to go "trekking," as the local expression is. I hear on all sides how much
that is interesting lies a little way beyond the reach of a ride, but it is difficult for the
mistress--who is at the same time the general servant--of an establishment out here to get
away from home for even a few days, especially when there is a couple of small children to
be left behind. No one travels now who can possibly help it, for the sudden violent rains which
come down nearly every afternoon swell the rivers and make even the spruits impassable; so
a traveler may be detained for days within a few miles of his destination. Now, in winter the
roads will be hard, and dust will be the only inconvenience. At least, that is what I am promised.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

THE CABS OF PARIS.

Paris is without doubt, of all large cities, the easiest to get about in. Lines of omnibuses
cross and recross its surface in every direction, and, better still, the streets swarm with
cabs, in which for the small sum of thirty cents one can pass at will from any given point
to any other far distant one within its limits. There are carriage-stands on every side and
in every principal street, and unoccupied vehicles may be seen driven at a snail's pace, with
their drivers keenly on the lookout for a possible fare. Yet, with all this provision, it is
occasionally very difficult to secure a carriage in Paris. On a sunny Sunday afternoon, on
the day of the Grand Prix de Paris, or during the prevalence of a sudden storm carriages are
as scarce in Paris as they are in New York. Yet their number increases daily, thanks to the
law of 1866, by virtue of which any coachman who can pass an examination as to his knowledge
of driving and acquaintance with the streets of Paris can, if he likes, purchase a vehicle
of the regulation style, have his number painted on it and set up for himself as a public cabman,
subject always in the matter of pace, charges, etc. to the police laws regulating all such details.

