But it seems hard to realize that I'm a sedate and elderly lady already on the shady side of
thirty. A woman over thirty years old--and I can remember the days of my intolerant youth when
I regarded the woman of thirty as an antiquated creature who should be piously preparing herself
for the next world. And it doesn't take thirty long to slip into forty. And then forty merges
into fifty--and there you are, a nice old lady with nervous indigestion and knitting-needles
and a tendency to breathe audibly after ascending the front-stairs. No wonder, last night,
it drove me to taking a volume of George Moore down from the shelf and reading his chapter
on "The Woman of Thirty." But I found small consolation in that over-uxorious essay, feeling
as I did that I knew life quite as well as any amorous studio-rat who ever made copy out of
his mottled past. So I was driven, in the end, to studying myself long and intently in the
broken-hinged mirrors of my dressing-table. And I didn't find much there to fortify my quailing
spirit. I was getting on a bit. I was curling up a little around the edges. There was no denying
that fact. For I could see a little fan-light of lines at the outer corner of each eye. And
down what Dinky-Dunk once called the honeyed corners of my mouth went another pair of lines
which clearly came from too much laughing. But most unmistakably of all there was a line coming
under my chin, a small but tell-tale line, announcing the fact that I wasn't losing any in
weight, and standing, I suppose, one of the foot-hills which precede the Rocky-Mountain dewlaps
of old age. It wouldn't be long, I could see, before I'd have to start watching my diet, and
looking for a white hair or two, and probably give up horseback riding. And then settle down
into an ingle-nook old dowager with a hassock under my feet and a creak in my knees and a fixed
conviction that young folks never acted up in my youth as they act up nowadays.

I tried to laugh it away, but my heart went down like a dredge-dipper. Whereupon I set my jaw,
which didn't make me look any younger. But I didn't much care, for the mirror had already done
its worst.

"Not muchee!" I said as I sat there making faces at myself. "You're still one of the living.
The bloom may be off in a place or two, but you're sound to the core, and serviceable for many
a year. So sursum corda! 'Rung ho! Hira Singh!' as Chinkie taught us to shout in the old polo
days. And that means, Go in and win, Chaddie McKail, and die with your boots on if you have to."

I was still intent on that study of my robust-looking but slightly weather-beaten map when
Dinky-Dunk walked in and caught me in the middle of my Narcissus act.

"'All is vanity saith the Preacher,'" he began. But he stopped short when I swung about at
him. For I hadn't, after all, been able to carpenter together even a whale-boat of consolation
out of my wrecked schooner of hope.

"Oh, Kakaibod," I wailed, "I'm a pie-faced old has-been, and nobody will ever love me again!"

He only laughed, on his way out, and announced that I seemed to be getting my share of loving,
as things went. But he didn't take back what he said about me being withered. And the first
thing I shall do to-morrow, when Gershom comes down to breakfast, will be to ask him how old
Cleopatra was when she brought Antony to his knees and how antiquated Ninon D'Enclos was when
she lost her power over that semi-civilized creature known as Man. Gershom will know, for Gershom
knows everything.

Wednesday the Seventh

Gershom has been studying some of my carbon-prints. He can't for the life of him understand
why I consider Dewing's Old-fashioned Gown so beautiful, or why I should love Childe Hassam's
Church at Old Lyme or see anything remarkable about Metcalf's May Night. But I cherish them
as one cherishes photographs of lost friends.

