THE

ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

            *     *      *      *     *

VOL. VI.--OCTOBER, 1860.--NO. XXXVI.

            *     *      *      *     *

SOME OF THE HAUNTS OF BURNS.

BY A TOURIST WITHOUT IMAGINATION OR ENTHUSIASM.

       *       *       *       *       *

PASQUIN AND PASQUINADES.

At an angle of the palace which Pius VI., (Braschi,) with paternal liberality, built for the
residence of his family, before the French Revolution put an end to such beneficence, stands
the famous statue of Pasquin, giving its name to the square upon which it looks. It is little
more now than a mere trunk of marble, bearing the marks of blows and long hard usage. But even
in this mutilated condition it shows traces of excellent workmanship and of pristine beauty.
The connoisseurs in sculpture praise it,[1] and the antiquaries have embittered their ignorance
in regard to it by discussions as to whether it was a statue of Hercules, of Alexander the
Great, or of Menelaus bearing the body of Patroclus. Disabled and maimed as it is, it is thus
only the more fitting type of the Roman people, of which it has been so long the acknowledged
mouthpiece; and the epigrams and satires which have made its name famous have gained an additional
point and a sharper sting from the patent resemblance in the condition of their professed author
to that of those for whom he spoke.

It is said to have been about the beginning of the sixteenth century that the statue was discovered
and dug up near the place where it now stands, and the earliest account of it seems to be that
given by Castelvetro, in 1553, in his discourse upon a canzone by Annibal Caro. He says, that
Antonio Tibaldeo of Ferrara, a venerable and lettered man, relates concerning this statue,
that there used to be in Rome a tailor, very skilful in his trade, by the name of Pasquin,
who had a shop which was much frequented by prelates, courtiers, and other people, so that
he employed a great number of workmen, who, like worthless fellows, spent their time in speaking
ill of one person or another, sparing no one, and finding opportunity for jests in observing
those who came to the shop. This custom became so notorious that the very persons who were
hit by these sharp speeches joined in the laugh at them, and felt no resentment; so that, if
any one wished to say a hard thing of another, he did it under cover of the person of Master
Pasquin, pretending that he had heard it said at his shop,--at which pretence every one laughed,
and no one bore a grudge. But, Master Pasquin dying, it happened, that, in improving the street,
this broken statue, which lay half imbedded in the ground, serving as a stepping-stone for
passengers, was taken up and set at the side of the shop. Making use of this good chance, satirical
people began to say that Master Pasquin had come back. The custom soon arose of attaching to
the statue bits of writing; and as it had been allowed to the tailor to say everything, so
by means of the statue any one might publish what he would not have ventured to speak.[2]

Thus did Hercules or Alexander change his name for that of Pasquin, and soon became almost
as well known throughout Europe under his new designation as under his old. If the statue were
not dug up, as is said, until the sixteenth century, its fame spread rapidly; for, before Luther
had made himself feared at Rome, Pasquin was already well known as the satirist of the vices
of Pope and Cardinals, and as a bold enemy of the abuses of the Church.

But the history of Pasquin is not a mere story of Roman jests, nor is its interest such alone
as may arise from an amusing, though neglected series of literary anecdotes. In the dearth
of material for the popular history of modern Rome, it is of value as affording indications
of the turn of feeling and the opinions of the Romans, and of the regard in which they held
their rulers. The free speech, which was prohibited and dangerous to the living subjects of
the temporal power of the Popes, was a privilege which, in spite of prohibition, Pasquin insisted
upon exercising. Whatever precautions might be taken, whatever penalties imposed, means were
always found, when occasion arose, to affix to the battered marble papers bearing stinging
epigrams or satirical verses, which, once read, fastened themselves in the memory, and spread
quickly by repetition. He could not be silenced. "Great sums," said he one day, in an epigram
addressed to Paul III., who was Pope from 1534 to 1549, "great sums were formerly given to
poets for singing: how much will you give me, O Paul, to be silent?"

  "Ut canerent data multa olim sunt vatibus aera:
  Ut taceam, quantum tu mihi, Paule, dabis?"

In his life of Adrian VI., the successor of Leo X., Paulus Jovius, not indeed the most trustworthy
of authorities, tells a story which, if not true, might well be so. He says, that the Pope,
being vexed at the free speech of Pasquin, proposed to have him thrown into the Tiber, thinking
thus to stop his tongue; but the Spanish legate dissuaded him, by suggesting, with grave Spanish
wisdom, that all the frogs of the river, becoming infected with his spirit, would adopt his
style of speech and croak only pasquinades. The contemptibleness of the assailant made him
the more dreaded. Did not the very reeds tell the fatal secret about King Midas?

Pasquin was by no means the only figure in Rome who gave expression to thoughts and feelings
which it would have been dangerous to the living subjects of the ecclesiastical rule to utter
aloud. His most distinguished companion was Marforio, a colossal statue of an ocean or river
god, which was discovered in the sixteenth century near the forum of Mars, from which he derived
his name. Toward the end of the same century, he was placed in the lower court of the Palazzo
de' Conservatori, on the Capitol, and here he has since remained. Dialogues were often carried
on between him and his friend Pasquin, and a share in their conversation was sometimes taken
by the Facchino, or so called Porter of the Palazzo Piombino. In his "Roma Nova," published
in 1660, Sprenger says that Pasquin was assigned to the nobles, Marforio to the citizens, and
the Facchino to the common people. But besides these there were the Abate Luigi of the Palazzo
Valle,--Madama Lucrezia, who still sits behind the Venetian palace near the Church of St. Mark,--the
Baboon, from which the Via Babbuino takes its name,--and the marble portrait of Scanderbeg,
the great enemy of the Turks, on the façade of the house which he at one time occupied in Rome.
Each of these personages now and then issued an epigram or took part in the satirical talk
of his companions. Such a number of cold and secure censors is not surprising in a city like
Rome, where the checks upon open speech are so many, and where priests and spies exercise so
close a scrutiny over the thoughts and words of men. Oppression begets hypocrisy, and a tyrant
adds to the faults of his subjects the vices of cowardice and secrecy. Caustic Forsyth, speaking
of the Romans, begins with the bitter remark, that "the national character is the most ruined
thing at Rome"; and in the same section he adds, "Their humor is naturally caustic; but they
lampoon, as they stab, only in the dark. The danger attending open attacks forces them to confine
their satire within epigram; and thus pasquinade is but the offspring of hypocrisy, the only
resource of wits who are obliged to be grave on so many absurdities in religion, and respectful
to so many upstarts in purple." Thus if the Romans lampoon only in the dark, the fault is to
be charged against their rulers rather than themselves. The talent for sarcastic epigram is
hereditary with the people. The pointed style of Martial was handed down through successive
generations. The epigram in his hands was no longer a mere inscription, an idyl, or an elegy;
it had lost its ancient grace, but it took on a new energy, and it set the model, which the
later Romans knew well how to copy, of satire condensed into wit, in lines each of whose words
had a sting.

The first true Pasquinades--that is, the first of the epigrams which were affixed to Pasquin,
and hence derived their name--are perhaps those which belong to the reign of Leo X. We at least
have found no earlier ones of undoubted genuineness; but satires similar to those of Pasquin,
and possibly originating with him, as they now go under the general name of Pasquinades, were
published against the Popes who preceded Leo. The infamous Alexander VI., the Pope who has
made his name synonymous with the worst infamies that disgrace mankind, was not spared the
attacks of the subjects whom he and his children, not unworthy of such a father, degraded and
abused. Two lines could say much:--

  "Sextus Tarquinius, Sextus Nero, Sextus et iste:
     Semper sub Sextis perdita Roma fuit."

"Sextus Tarquinius, Sextus Nero, this also a Sextus" (Alexander Sextus, that is, Alexander
the Sixth): "always under the Sextuses has Rome been ruined." Rome rejoiced. Peace, which for
a long time had been banished from her borders, returned, and she enjoyed for a few days unwonted
freedom from alarm and trouble. Her happiness found expression in verse:--

  "Dic unde, Alecto, pax haec effulsit, et unde
     Tam subito reticent proelia? Sextus obit."

  "Say whence, Alecto, has this peace
  shone forth? wherefore so suddenly has
  the noise of battle ceased? Alexander
  is dead."

The rule of Borgia's successor, Pius III., lasting only twenty-seven days, afforded little
opportunity to the play of indignant wit; but the nine years' reign of Julius II., which followed,
was a period whose troubled history is recorded in the numerous epigrams and satires to which
it gave birth. The impulsive and passionate vigor of the character of Julius, the various fortunes
of his rash enterprises, the troubles which his stormy and rapacious career brought to the
Papal city, are all more or less minutely told. The Pope began his reign with warlike enterprises,
and as soon as he could gather sufficient force he set out to recover from the Venetians territory
of which they had possession, and which he claimed as the property of the Papal state. It was
said, that, in leading his troops out of Rome, he threw into the Tiber, with characteristic
impetuosity, the keys of Peter, and, drawing his sword from its sheath, declared that henceforth
he would trust to the sword of Paul. The story was too good to be lost, and it gave point to
many epigrams, of which, perhaps, the one preserved by Bayle is the best:--

  "Cum Petri nihil efficiant ad proelia claves,
     Auxilio Pauli forsitan ensis erit."

  "Since the keys of Peter profit not for
  battle, perchance, with the aid of Paul,
  the sword will answer."[5]

Julius was the first of the Popes of recent times to allow his beard to grow, and Raphael's
noble portrait of him shows what dignity it gave to his strongly marked face. The beard was
also regarded traditionally as having belonged to Saint Paul. "For me," the Pope was represented
as saying, "for me the beard of Paul, the sword of Paul, all things of Paul: that key-bearer,
Peter, is no way to my liking."

  "Huc barbam Pauli, gladium Pauli, omnia Pauli:
     Claviger ille nihil ad mea vota Petrus."

But the most savage epigram against Julius was one that recalled the name of the great Roman,
which the Pope was supposed to have adopted in emulation of that of Alexander, borne by his
predecessor:--

  "Julius est Romae. Quid abest? Date, numina, Brutum.
     Nam quoties Romae est Julius, illa perit."

  "Julius is at Rome. What is wanting?
  Ye gods, give us a Brutus! For
  when Julius is at Rome, the city is lost."

Pasquin became a recognized institution, as we have said, under Leo X., and was taken under
the protection of the Roman people.[6] His popularity was such as to lead to consequences of
which he himself complained. He was made the vehicle of the effusions of worthless versifiers,
and he was forced to cry out, "Woe is me! even the copyist fixes his verses upon me, and every
one bestows on me his silly trifles."

The application of these verses was alike appropriate to the life of the Pope, or to the reigns
of Alexander VI., Julius II., and the one just beginning.

  "Me miserum! Copista etiam mihi carmina figit;
  Et tribuit nugas jam mihi quisque suas."

He seems to have been successful in putting a stop to this injurious treatment; for not long
after he declared, with a sarcasm directed against the prominent qualities of his fellow-citizens,
"There is no better man at Rome than I. I seek nothing from any one. I am not wordy. I sit
here and am silent."

  "Non homo me melior Rome est. Ego nil peto ab ullo.
  Non sum verbosus. Hic sedeo et taceo."

It had become the custom, upon occasions of public festivity, to adorn Pasquin with suits of
garments, and with paint, forcing him to assume from time to time different characters according
to the fancy of his protectors. Sometimes he appeared as Neptune, sometimes as Chance or Fate,
as Apollo or Bacchus. Thus, in the year 1515, he became Orpheus, and, while adorned with the
plectrum and the lyre of the poet, Marforio addressed a distich to him in his new character,
which hints at the popular appreciation of the Pope. The year 1515 was that of the descent
of Francis I, into Italy, and of the bloody battle of Marignano. "In the midst of war and slaughter
and the sound of trumpets," said Marforio, "you sing and strike your lyre: this is to understand
the temper of your Lord."

  "Inter bella, tubas, caedes, canis ipse, lyramque
  Percutis. Hoc sapere est ingenium Domini."[7]

But the character of most of those pasquinades which belong to the pontificate of Leo is so
coarse as to render them unfit for reproduction. A general licentiousness pervaded Rome, and
the vices of the Pope and the higher clergy, veiled, but not hidden, under the displays of
sensual magnificence and the pretended refinements of degraded art, were readily imitated by
a people taught to follow and obey the teachings of their ecclesiastical rulers. Corruption
of every sort was common. Virtue and vice, profane and sacred things, were alike for sale.
The Pope made money by the sale of cardinalates and traffic in indulgences. "Give me gifts,
ye spectators," begged Pasquin; "bring me not verses: divine Money alone rules the ethereal gods."

  "Dona date, astantes; versus ne reddite: sola
  Imperat aethereis alma Moneta deis."

Leo's fondness for buffoons, with whom he mercilessly amused himself by tormenting them and
exciting them to make themselves ridiculous, is recorded in a question put to Pasquin on one
of his changes of figure. "Why have you not asked, O Pasquil, to be made a buffoon? for at
Rome everything is now permitted to the buffoons."

  "Cur non te fingi scurram, Pasquille, rogâsti?
  Cum Romae scurris omnia jam liceant."

Leo died in 1521. His death was sudden, and not without suspicion of poison. It was said that
the last offices of the Church were not performed for the dying man, and an epigram sharply
embodied the report. "Do you ask why at his last hour Leo could not take the sacred things?
He had sold them."

The spirit of Luther had penetrated through the walls of Rome; and though all tongues but those
of statues might be silenced, eyes were not blinded, nor could ears be made deaf. Nowhere was
the need of reform so felt as at Rome, but nowhere was there so little hope for it; for the
people stood in equal need of it with the Church, whose ministers had corrupted them, and whose
rulers tyrannized over them. "Farewell, Rome!" said Pasquin.

  "Roma, vale! Satis est vidisse. Revertar
  Quum leno, meretrix, scurra, cinaedus ero."

When Leo's short-lived successor, the gloomy Fleming, Adrian VI., who was the author of the
proposal to destroy Pasquin, despatched his nuncio to the diet of Nuremberg to oppose the progress
of Luther, he told him in his instructions to "avow frankly that God has permitted this schism
and this persecution on account of the sins of men, and, above all, of those of the priests
and the prelates of the Church." Pasquin could not have improved on these words. And when,
twenty months after his elevation to the papacy, this hard old man died, the inscription--which
he ordered to be put upon his tomb was in words fit to disarm the satirist:--"Here lies Adrian
VI., who esteemed nothing in his life more unhappy than that he had been called to rule": "Adrianus
VI. hîc situs est, qui nil sibi infelicius in vitâ quam quod imperaret duxit."

During the pontificate of Clement VII., Rome suffered under calamities too terrible and too
depressing to admit of the frequent display of the humor or the satire of Pasquin. The siege
and sack of the city by the army of the Constable de Bourbon wrought too much misery to be
set in verse or to be sharpened in epigram. One shrewd jest of this time has, indeed, been
preserved. Clement was for months a prisoner in the Castle of Sant' Angelo, unable to stir
abroad. "Papa non potest errare" said Pasquin, or one of his friends, with a play on the double
meaning of the last word, and a scoff at Papal pretension: "The Pope cannot err": he is too
well guarded to stray. But when the Pope died in 1534, Pasquin did not spare his memory. He
had lately changed his physician, and taken one named Matteo Curzio or Curtius; and when his
death took place, not without suspicion of malpractice, the satisfaction of the people was
expressed by the appearance of a portrait of this new doctor, with the inscription, in words
borrowed from the Vulgate, "Ecce agnus Dei, ecce qui tollit peccata mundi!" "Curtius has killed
Clement," said Pasquin. "Curtius, who has secured the public health, should be rewarded."

Nor was this all. Pasquin declared, that, on occasion of Clement's death, a bitter strife arose
between Pluto and Saint Peter as to which should receive the Pope:--

  "Noluit hunc coelum, noluit hunc barathrum."

The Saint has no place for him, and the ruler of the lower regions fears the disturbance that
he will make in hell. The quarrel is cut short by the arrival of Clement himself upon the spot,
who, finding no entrance into heaven, declares that he will force himself into hell:--

  "Tartara tentemus, facilis descensus Averni."

The fifteen years of the pontificate of Clement's successor, Paul III.,--years, for the most
part, of quiet and prosperity at Rome,--afforded ample opportunities for the display of Pasquin's
spirit. The personal character of the Pope, the exactions which he laid upon the Romans for
the profit of his favorites and his family, and his unblushing nepotism were the subjects of
frequent satire. The Farnese palace, built in great part with stone taken from the Colosseum,
is a standing monument of the justice of Pasquin's rebukes, the sharpness of which is concentrated
in a single telling epigram. "Let us pray for Pope Paul," said Pasquin, "for zeal for his house
is consuming him":--

  "Oremus pro Papâ Paulo, quia zelus
  Domus suae comedit illum."

At another time Marforio addressed a letter to Pasquin, in which he tells him of the Pope's
reply to an angel who had been sent to him with the message, "Feed my sheep" "Charity begins
at home," had been the answer of the Pope. And when the Roman people had prayed Paul to have
pity on his people, Paul had replied, "It is not right to take the children's bread and give
it to dogs."

But Pasquin was now to be brought into greater notoriety than ever. In spite of the efforts
of the successors of Adrian, the Reformation had rapidly advanced, and the Reformers, scorning
no weapons that might serve their cause, determined to turn the wit of Pasquin to their account.
In the year 1544, a little, but thick, volume appeared, with the title, "Pasquillorum Tomi
duo." It bore no name of editor or printer, and professed to be published at Eleutheropolis,
the City of Freedom, or, as it might be rendered in a free translation, the City of Luther.
Its 637 pages were filled with satire; it was not merely a collection of Pasquin's sayings,
but it contained epigrams and dialogues derived from other sources as well. The book was of
a kind to be popular, as well as to excite the bitterest aversion of the adherents of the Roman
Church. It long since became a volume of excessive rarity, most of the copies having been destroyed
by zealous Romanists.

  "Rome gave my brothers to the fire.
  A solitary Phoenix, I survive, and at cost
  of a hundred gold pieces I come to Heinsius."

But Heinslus was mistaken in supposing his copy to be unique; and bibliographers of later date,
while marking the rarity of the book, have recorded its existence in various libraries. At
this moment two copies are lying before us, probably the only copies in America.[8]

The editor of this publication was the Piedmontese scholar and Reformer, Coelius Secundus Curio.
His early life had been eventful, and he had experienced the tender mercies of the Roman Church.
He had been persecuted, his property had been seized, he himself compelled to fly, on account
of his liberal views. He had been in the prisons of the Inquisition, from which he had escaped
only by a successful and ingenious stratagem. At length, wearied with contention, he took up
his abode in Protestant Switzerland, where he passed in quiet the latter years of his useful
and honored life.[9] It was while here that he compiled this book, and sent it as a missile
into the camp of his opponents, the enemies of freedom of thought and of the right of private
judgment. From this time Pasquin's fame became universal. The words pasquil or pasquinade were
adopted info almost every European tongue, and soon embraced in their widening signification
all sorts of satiric epigrams. A great part of the volume published by Curio is made up, indeed,
of attacks on the Roman Church which have no connection with Pasquin as their author. The style
and the subject of many of them betray a German origin; and some of the longer pieces so closely
resemble, in point, in humor, and in expression, the celebrated "Epistolae Obscurorum Virorum,"
that there can be little doubt that Ulrich von Hutten, or some one of his coadjutors in that
clever satire on the monks and clergy, had a hand in their composition.[10]

But, leaving the pasquinades of other people, let us come back to the sayings of Pasquin himself.
No one has surpassed him in his own way, and his store of epigrams, illustrating life and manners
at Rome, is abundant. The pontificate of Sixtus V., from 1585 to 1590, was full of material
for his wit. The only man in Rome who did not tremble under the rod with which this hard old
monk ruled his people and the Church was the free-spoken marble jester. The very morning after
the election of Sixtus, Pasquin appeared with a plate of toothpicks, and to the question of
Marforio, what he was doing with them, he replied, "I am taking them to Alexandrino, Medicis,
and Rusticucci," the three cardinals who had been most active in securing the Papacy for the
new Pope. The point of the joke was plain to the Romans: it meant that his adherents, instead
of gaining anything by their efforts, had been deceived, and would have nothing to do now but
to pick their teeth at leisure.

Leti, in his entertaining and gossipping life of this most merciless of Popes, tells a story
of another pasquinade, which exhibits the temper of Sixtus. One morning Pasquin appeared clothed
in a very dirty shirt, and, upon being asked by Marforio, why he wore such foul linen, replied,
he could get no other, for the Pope had made his washerwoman a princess,--meaning thereby the
Pope's sister, Donna Camilla, who had formerly been a laundress, but was now established with
a fortune and a palace. "This stinging piece of raillery was carried directly to his Holiness,
who ordered a strict search to be made for the author, but to no purpose. Upon which he stuck
up printed papers in all the public places of the city, promising, upon the word of a Pope,
to give the author of the pasquinade a thousand pistoles and his life, provided he would discover
himself, but threatened to hang him, if he was found out by any one else, and offered the thousand
pistoles to the informer." Upon this the author was simple enough to make confession and to
demand the money. Sixtus paid him the sum, and then, saying that he had indeed promised him
his life, but not freedom from punishment, ordered his hands to be cut off, and his tongue
to be bored, "to prevent him from being so witty for the future." This act, says Leti, "filled
every one with terror and amazement." And well might such a piece of Oriental barbarity excite
the horror of the Romans.[11] Pasquin, however, was not alarmed, and a few days afterward he
appeared holding a wet shirt to dry in the sun. It was a Sunday morning, and Marforio, naturally
surprised at such a violation of the day, asked him why he could not wait till Monday before
drying it Pasquin answered, that there was no time to lose; for, if he waited till to-morrow
to dry his shirt, he might have to pay for the sunshine;--hinting at the heavy taxes which
Sixtus had laid upon the necessaries of life, and from which the sunshine itself might not
long be exempt.

It was near about this time that a caricature was circulated in Rome, representing Sixtus as
King Stork and the Romans as frogs vainly attempting to escape from his devouring beak. Merito
haec patimur, "We suffer deservedly," was the legend of the picture, and the moral it conveyed
was a true one. Rome was in such a state as to require the harshest applications, and the despotic
severity of Sixtus did much to restore decency and security to life. He left the Romans in
a far better condition than he found them; and it would have been well for Rome, if among his
successors there had been more to follow his example in repressing vice and violence,--in a
word, had there been more King Storks and fewer King Logs.

The most poetic of pasquinades, and one in which wit rises into imagination, belongs to the
pontificate of Urban VIII. (1623-1644.) This Pope issued a bull excommunicating all persons
who took snuff in the churches of Seville; whereupon Pasquin quoted the following verse from
Job (xiii. 25):--"Contra folium quod vento rapitur ostendis potentiam tuam? et stipulam siccam
persequeris?"

This is a very model of satire in its kind, and of a higher kind than the pasquil, which Coleridge
quotes as an example of wit, upon the Pope who had employed a committee to rip up the errors
of his predecessors.

"Some one placed a pair of spurs on the statue of St. Peter, and a label from the opposite
statue of St. Paul.

"St. Paul. Whither, then, are you bound?

"St. Peter. I apprehend danger here;--they'll soon call me in question for denying my Master.

"St. Paul. Nay, then, I had better be off, too; for they'll question me for having persecuted
the Christians before my conversion."[12]

In his distinction between the wit of thoughts, of words, and of images, Coleridge asserts
that the first belongs eminently to the Italians. Such broad assertions are always open to
exceptions, and Pasquin shows that the Romans at least are not less clever in the wit of words
than in that of thoughts. Take, for example, the jest on Innocent X. which Howel reports in
one of his entertaining letters. This Pope, who, says the candid historian, Mosheim, "to a
profound ignorance of all those things which it was necessary for a Christian bishop to know,
joined the most shameless indolence and the most notorious profligacy," abandoned his person,
his dignity, and his government to the disposal of Donna Olympia Maldachini, the widow of his
brother. The portrait of the Pope may be seen in the Doria Gallery at Rome; for it is still
esteemed an honor by the noble family to which the gallery belongs to be able to trace a relationship
to a Pope, even though so vile a one as Innocent "Magis amat papa Olympiam quam Olympum" said
Pasquin; and the pun still clings to the memory of him whom his authorized biographer calls
"religiosissimo nelle cose divine e prudentissimo nelle umane." But superlatives often have
a value in inverse ratio to their intention. There is a curious story told by the Catholic
historian, Novaes, that, after the death of Innocent, which took place in 1655, no one could
be found willing to assume the charge of burying him. Word was sent to Donna Olympia that she
should provide a coffin for the corpse; but she replied that she was only a poor widow. Of
the cardinals he had made, of the relations he had enriched, none was to be found who had charity
enough to treat his remains with decency. His body was taken to a room where some masons were
at work, and one of them out of compassion put a tallow candle at its head, while another,
fearing lest the mice, of which there were many in the apartment, might disturb the corpse,
secured a person to watch it through the night. At length one of the officers of the court
procured a cheap coffin, and one of the canons of Saint Peter's gave five crowns to pay the
expenses of the burial.[13] A moralist might comment on this story, and might compare it with
another which is told in a life of Innocent, written during the reign of his successor, and
published with approval at Rome. In this we are told that at the time of his death a marvellous
prodigy was observed; for that, when his corpse was borne on a bier from Monte Cavallo to the
Vatican, at the moment of a violent storm of wind and rain, not a drop of water fell upon it,
but the bier remained perfectly dry, and the torches with which it was accompanied were none
of them extinguished. What wonder, that, after this, it is added, "that his memory is venerated
in many places at Rome"?[14] Of all the troublesome race of panegyrists, the Roman variety
is the most ingenious and the least to be trusted.

When Bishop Burnet was travelling in Italy, in the year 1686, the doctrines of the Spanish
priest Molinos, the founder of the famous sect of Quietists, had lately become the object of
attack of the Jesuits and of suspicion at the Papal Court. His system of mystical divinity
is still of interest from its connection with the lives of Fénelon and Madame Guyon, if not
from its intrinsic character. Like most other mystical doctrines, his teachings seem to have
been open to the charge, that, while professedly based on the highest spirituality, they had
a direct tendency to encourage sensuality in its most dangerous form. Molinos was at first
much favored at Rome and by the Pope himself; but at the time of Burnet's journey he was in
the custody of the Holy Office, while his books were undergoing the examination which finally
led to the formal condemnation of sixty-eight propositions contained in them, to the renunciation
of these propositions by their author, and to his being sentenced to perpetual imprisonment
Burnet relates that it happened "in one week that one man had been condemned to the galleys
for somewhat he had said, another had been hanged for somewhat he had writ, and Molinos was
clapt in prison, whose doctrine consisted chiefly in this, that men ought to bring their minds
to a state of inward quietness. The Pasquinade upon all this was, "Si parliamo, in galere;
si scrivemmo, impiccati; si stiamo in quiete, all' Sant Uffizio. Eh! che bisogna fare?" "If
we speak, the galleys; if we write, the gallows; if we stay quiet, the Inquisition. Eh! what
must we do, then?"

With the changes of times and the succession of Popes, new material was constantly afforded
to Pasquin for the exercise of his peculiar talent. Each generation gave him fresh subject
for laughter or for rebuke. Men quickly passed away, but folly and vice remained. "Do you wonder,"
said Pasquin, once, in his early days, referring to his changes of character, "do you wonder
why Rome yearly changes me to a new figure? It is because of the shifting manners of the city,
and the falling back of men. He who would be pious must depart from Rome."

  "Praeteriens, forsan miraris, turba, quotannis
  Cur me Roma novam mutet in effigiem.
  Hoc urbis mores varios, hominumque recessus
  Indicat: ergo abeat qui cupit esse pius."

During the eighteenth century Italy did not abound in poets or wits, and Master Pasquin seems
to have shared in the dulness of the times. Toward its end, however, when Pius VI. was building
the palace under the corner of which the statue was to find shelter, the marble representative
of the tailor watched his proceedings with sharp observation. Long ago he had rebuked the nepotism
of the Popes, but Pius had forgotten his epigrams. "Cerberus," he had said, "had three mouths
with which he barked; but you have three, or even four, which bark not, but devour."

  "Tres habuit fauces, et terno Cerberus ore
  Latratus intra Tartara nigra dabat.
  Et tibi plena fame tria sunt vel quatuor ora
  Quae nulli latrant, quemque sed illa vorant."

Every one who has been in Rome remembers how often, on the repairs of ancient monuments, and
on the pedestals of statues or busts, are to be seen the words, "Munificentiâ Pii Sexti" thrusting
themselves into notice, and occupying the place which should be filled with some nobler inscription.
The bad taste and impertinence of this epigraph are often enhanced by the slightness of the
work or the gift which it commemorates. During a season of dearth at Rome, in the time of Pius,
when the bakers had reduced the size of their loaves, Pasquin took the opportunity to satirize
the selfishness and vanity of the Pope, by exhibiting one of these diminished loaves bearing
the familiar words, "Munificentiâ Pii VI."

The French Revolution, the Napoleonic occupation of Rome, the brilliant essays of liberalism
of Pius IX., the Republic, the siege of Rome, the reactionary government of late years, have
alike supplied matter for Master Pasquin, which he has shaped according to the fashion of the
times. He still pursues his ancient avocation. Res acu tetigit. But the point of the needle
is not the means by which the rents in the garment of Rome are to be mended,--much less by
which her wounds are to be cauterized and healed. The sharp satiric tongue may prick her moral
sense into restlessness, but the Roman spirit is not thus to be roused to action. Still Pasquin
deserves credit for his efforts; and while other liberty is denied, the Romans may be glad
that there is a single voice that cannot be silenced, and a single censor who is not to be
corrupted.

[Footnote 1: Bernini, being asked what was the most beautiful statue in Rome, replied, "That
of Pasquin." This reply the sensible Milizia taxes with affectation,--saying, that, although
an artist may discover in the work some marks of good design, it is now too maimed to pass
for a beautiful statue. Possibly Bernini was thinking of his own works in comparison with it.]

[Footnote 2: Andreas Schott,--who published an Itinerary of Italy about the beginning of the
seventeenth century, copies this account, and adds,--"At present this custom is prohibited
under the heaviest penalties."]

[Footnote 3: Mrs. Piozzi, in her amusing Journey through Italy, ii. 113, quotes these verses
and gives a translation of them which shows that she quite mistook their point. In spite of
her quoting Latin, Greek, and even on occasion Hebrew, her scholarship was not very accurate
or deep.]

[Footnote 4: The Historie of Guicciardin, reduced into English by Geffray Fenton. 1579. p.
308. Another epigram of barbarous bitterness against Alexander refers, if we understand it
aright, to one of the gloomiest events of his pontificate, the murder of his son Giovanni,
Duca di Gandia, by his other son, Caesar Borgia. Giovanni was killed at night, and his body
was thrown into the Tiber, from which it was recovered the next morning.

  Piscatorem hominum ne te non, Sexte, putemus,
     Piscaris natum retibus ecce tuum." It is said, that, "on the election of Pope Leo X., in 1440,
the following satirical acrostic appeared, to mark the date
MCCCCXL:--'Multi caeci cardinales creaverunt caecum decimum (X)
Leonem: 'Many blind cardinals have created a tenth blind Lion.'" Now
in 1440 Leo was not born, and no Pope was chosen in that year. Leo was
not made Pope till 1513, and the acrostic has apparently nothing to do
with the date of his accession to the pontificate.]

[Footnote 8: One of those copies was formerly in the Royal Library at Munich, and sold as a
duplicate. The other has the bookplate of the Baron de Warenghien. Colonel Stanley's copy sold
for £11 lls. The book was printed at Basle, by Jean Oporin. See Clément, Bibl. Cur. Hist, et
Crit., vii. 371. See also, for an account of it, Salleugre, M.m. de Litt., ii. 6, 203; and
Schelhorn, Amoen. Lit., iii. 151.]

[Footnote 9: An entertaining and curious account of Curio and his family is to be found in
a commemorative oration delivered in 1570 before the Academy of Basle by Stupanus, and printed
by Schelhorn in Amoen. Lit., Tom. xiv.]

[Footnote 10: In two or three of the dialogues Hutten is introduced as one of the speakers;
and several of the poetic epigrams are ascribed to him by name.]

[Footnote 11: In Luther's Table-Talk, he says, "Whoso in Rome is heard to speak one word against
the Pope received either a Strappecordo or is punished with death, for his name is Noli me
tangere." Pasquin himself has hardly said a shrewder saying than this. Noli me tangere is the
name under which Pius IX. pleads against the diminution of his temporal power, while he threatens
his opponents with the Strappecorde.]

[Footnote 12: Lectures upon Shakespeare and other Dramatists, ii. 90.]

[Footnote 13: Novaes, x. 56. Artaud de Montor, Hist. des Pont. Rom., v. 523.]

[Footnote 14: Vita d' Innocenzio X., dal Cav. Ant.

       *       *       *       *       *

DARWIN AND HIS REVIEWERS.

Verily, on this view,

  "Thinking is but an idle waste of thought,
  And nought is everything, and everything is
  nought." Two qualifying
considerations are noticeable. We cannot tell, because we cannot tell why either should
vary at all. Hist. of U. S., Vol. i.
pp. 128, 129.]

[Footnote 6: Contr. Nat. Hist.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD DAYS AND THE NEW.

  A poet came singing along the vale,--
    "Ah, well-a-day for the dear old days!
  They come no more as they did of yore
    By the flowing river of Aise."

  He piped through the meadow, he piped through the grove,--
    "Ah, well-a-day for the good old days!
  They have all gone by, and I sit and sigh
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "Knights and ladies and shields and swords,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the grand old days!
  Castles and moats, and the bright steel coats,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "The lances are shivered, the helmets rust,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the stern old days!
  And the clarion's blast has rung its last,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "And the warriors that swept to glory and death,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the brave old days!
  They have fought and gone, and I sit here alone
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "The strength of limb and the mettle of heart,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the strong old days!
  They have withered away, mere butterflies' play,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "The queens of beauty, whose smile was life,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the rare old days!
  With love and despair in their golden hair,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "They have flitted away from hall and bower,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the rich old days!
  Like the sun they shone, like the sun they have gone,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "And buried beneath the pall of the past,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the proud old days!
  Lie valor and worth and the beauty of earth,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "And I sit and sigh by the idle stream,--
    Ah, well-a-day for the bright old days!
  For nothing remains for the poet's strains
    But the flowing river of Aise."

  Then a voice rang out from the oak overhead,--
    "Why well-a-day for the old, old days?
  The world is the same, if the bard has an aim,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "There's beauty and love and truth and power,--
    Cease well-a-day for the old, old days!
  The humblest home is worth Greece and Rome,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "There are themes enough for the poet's strains,--
    Leave well-a-day for the quaint old days!
  Take thine eyes from the ground, look up and around
    From the flowing river of Aise.

  "To-day is as grand as the centuries past,--
    Leave well-a-day for the famed old days!
  There are battles to fight, there are troths to plight,
    By the flowing river of Aise.

  "There are hearts as true to love, to strive,--
    No well-a-day for the dark old days!
  Go put into type the age that is ripe
    By the flowing river of Aise."

  Then the merry Poet piped down the vale,--
    "Farewell, farewell to the dead old days!
  By day and by night there's music and light
    By the flowing river of Aise."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ICEBERG OF TORBAY.

TORBAY.

Torbay, finely described in a recent novel by the Rev. R.T.S. Lowell, is an arm of the sea,
a short strong arm with a slim hand and finger, reaching into the rocky land and touching the
water-falls and rapids of a pretty brook. Here is a little village, with Romish and Protestant
steeples, and the dwellings of fishermen, with the universal appendages of fishing-houses,
boats, and "flakes." One seldom looks upon a hamlet so picturesque and wild. The rocks slope
steeply down to the wonderfully clear water. Thousands of poles support half-acres of the spruce-bough
shelf, beneath which is a dark, cool region, crossed with foot-paths, and not unfrequently
sprinkled and washed by the surf,--a most kindly office on the part of the sea, you will allow,
when once you have scented the fish-offal perpetually dropping from the evergreen fish-house
above. These little buildings on the flakes are conspicuous features, and look as fresh and
wild as if they had just wandered away from the woodlands.

There they stand, on the edge of the lofty pole-shelf, or upon the extreme end of that part
of it which runs off frequently over the water like a wharf, an assemblage of huts and halls,
bowers and arbors, a curious huddle made of poles and sweet-smelling branches and sheets of
birch-bark. A kind of evening haunts these rooms of spruce at noonday, while at night a hanging
lamp, like those we see in old pictures of crypts and dungeons, is to the stranger only a kind
of buoy by which he is to steer his way through the darkness. To come off then without pitching
headlong, and soiling your hands and coat, is the merest chance. Strange! one is continually
allured into these piscatory bowers whenever he comes near them. In spite of the chilly, salt
air, and the repulsive smells about the tables where they dress the fish, I have a fancy for
these queer structures. Their front door opens upon the sea, and their steps are a mammoth
ladder, leading down to the swells and the boats. There is a charm also about fine fishes,
fresh from the net and the hook,--the salmon, for example, whose pink and yellow flesh has
given a name to one of the most delicate hues of Art or Nature.

THE CLIFFS.

But where was the iceberg? We were not a little disappointed when all Torbay was before us,
and nothing but dark water to be seen. To our surprise, no one had ever seen or heard of it.
It must lie off Flat Rock Harbor, a little bay below, to the north. We agreed with the supposition
that the berg must lie below, and made speedy preparations to pursue, by securing the only
boat to be had in the village,--a substantial fishing-barge, laden rather heavily in the stern
with at least a cord of cod-seine, but manned by six stalwart men, a motive power, as it turned
out, none too large for the occasion. We embarked at the foot of a fish-house ladder, being
carefully handed down by the kind-hearted men, and took our seats forward on the little bow-deck.
All ready, they pulled away at their long, ponderous oars with the skill and deliberation of
lifelong practice, and we moved out upon the broad, glassy swells of the bay towards the open
sea, not indeed with the rapidity of a Yankee club-boat, but with a most agreeable steadiness,
and a speed happily fitted for a review of the shores, which, under the afternoon sun, were
made brilliant with lights and shadows.

We were presently met by a breeze, which increased the swell, and made it easier to fail in
close under the northern shore, a line of stupendous precipices, to which the ocean goes deep
home. The ride beneath these mighty cliffs was by far the finest boat-ride of my life. While
they do not equal the rocks of the Saguenay, yet, with all their appendages of extent, structure,
complexion, and adjacent sea, they are sufficiently lofty to produce an almost appalling sense
of sublimity. The surges lave them at a great height, sliding from angle to angle, and fretting
into foam as they slip obliquely along the face of the vast walls. They descend as deeply as
two hundred feet, and rise perpendicularly two, three, and four hundred feet from the water.
Their stratifications are up and down, and of different shades of light and dark, a ribbed
and striped appearance that increases the effect of height, and gives variety and spirit to
the surface. At one point, where the rocks advance from the main front, and form a kind of
headland, the strata, six and eight feet thick, assume the form of a pyramid,--from a broad
base of a hundred yards or more running up to meet in a point. The heart of this vast cone
has partly fallen out, and left the resemblance of an enormous tent with cavernous recesses
and halls, in which the shades of evening were already lurking, and the surf was sounding mournfully.
Occasionally it was musical, pealing forth like the low tones of a great organ with awful solemnity.
Now and then, the gloomy silence of a minute was broken by the crash of a billow far within,
when the reverberations were like the slamming of great doors.

After passing this grand specimen of the architecture of the sea, there appeared long rocky
reaches like Egyptian temples,--old, dead cliffs of yellowish gray, checked off by lines and
seams into squares, and having the resemblance, where they have fallen out into the ocean,
of doors and windows opening in upon the fresher stone. Presently we came to a break, where
there were grassy slopes and crags intermingled, and a flock of goats skipping about, or ruminating
in the warm sunshine. A knot of kids--the reckless little creatures--were sporting along the
edge of a precipice in a manner almost painful to witness. The pleasure of leaping from point
to point, where a single misstep would have dropped them hundreds of feet, seemed to be in
proportion to the danger. The sight of some women, who were after the goats, reminded the boatmen
of an accident which occurred here only a few days before: a lad playing about the steep fell
into the sea, and was drowned.

We were now close upon the point just behind which we expected to behold the iceberg. The surf
was sweeping the black reef that flanked the small cape, in the finest style,--a beautiful
dance of breakers of dazzling white and green. As every stroke of the oars shot us forward,
and enlarged our view of the field in which the ice was reposing, our hearts fairly throbbed
with an excitement of expectation. "There it is!" one exclaimed. An instant revealed the mistake.
It was only the next headland in a fog, which unwelcome mist was now coming down upon us from
the broad waters, and covering the very tract where the berg was expected to be seen. Farther
and farther out the long, strong sweep of the great oars carried us, until the depth of the
bay between us and the next headland was in full view. It may appear almost too trifling a
matter over which to have had any feeling worth mentioning or remembering, but I shall not
soon forget the disappointment, when from the deck of our barge, as it rose and sank on the
large swells, we stood up and looked around and saw, that, if the iceberg, over which our very
hearts had been beating with delight for twenty-four hours, was anywhere, it was somewhere
in the depths of that untoward fog. It might as well have been in the depths of the ocean.

While the pale cloud slept there, there was nothing left for us but to wait patiently where
we were, or retreat. We chose the latter. C. gave the word to pull for the settlement at the
head of the little bay just mentioned, and so they rounded the breakers on the reef, and we
turned away for the second time, when the game was fairly ours. Even the hardy fishermen, no
lovers of "islands-of-ice," as they call them, felt for us, as they read in our looks the disappointment,
not to say a little vexation. While on our passage in, we filled a half-hour with questions
and discussions about that iceberg.

"We certainly saw it yesterday evening; and a soldier of Signal Hill told us that it had been
close in at Torbay for several days. And you, my man there, say that you had a glimpse of it
last evening. How happens it to be away just now? Where do you think it is?"

"Indeed, Sir, he must be out in the fog, a mile or over. De'il a bit can a man look after a
thing in a fog, more nor into a snow-bank. Maybe, Sir, he's foundered; or he might be gone
off to sea, altogether, as they sometimes do."

"Well, this is rather remarkable. Huge as these bergs are, they escape very easily under their
old cover. No sooner do we think we have them, than they are gone. No jackal was ever more
faithful to his lion, no pilot-fish to his shark, than the fog to its berg. We will run in
yonder and inquire about it. We may get the exact bearing, and reach it yet, even in the fog."

THE FISHERMAN'S.

The wind and sea being in our favor, we soon reached a fishery-ladder, which we now knew very
well how to climb, and wound our "dim and perilous way" through the evergreen labyrinth of
fish bowers, emerging on the solid rock, and taking the path to the fisherman's house. Here
lives and works and wears himself out William Waterland, a deep-voiced, broad-chested, round-shouldered
man, dressed, not in cloth of gold, but of oil, with the foxy remnant of a last winter's fur
cap clinging to his large, bony head, a little in the style of a piece of turf to a stone.
You seldom look into a more kindly, patient face, or into an eye that more directly lets up
the light out of a large, warm heart. His countenance is one sober shadow of honest brown,
occasionally lighted by a true and guileless smile. William Waterland has seen the "island-of-ice."
"It lies off there, two miles or more, grounded on a bank, in forty fathoms water."

It was nearly six o'clock; and yet, as there were signs of the fog clearing away, we thought
it prudent to wait. A dull, long hour passed by, and still the sun was high in the northwest.
That heavy cod-seine, a hundred fathoms long, sank the stern of our barge rather deeply, and
made it row heavily. For all that, there was time enough yet, if we could only use it. The
fog still came in masses from the sea, sweeping across the promontory between us and Torbay,
and fading into air nearly as soon as it was over the land. In the mean time, we sat upon the
rocks, upon the wood-pile, stood around and talked, looked out into the endless mist, looked
at the fishermen's houses, their children, their fowls and dogs. A couple of young women, that
might have been teachers of the village school, had there been a school, belles of the place,
rather neatly dressed, and with hair nicely combed, tripped shyly by, each with an arm about
the other's waist, and very merry until abreast of us, when they were as silent and downcast
as if they had been passing by their sovereign queen or the Great Mogul. Their curiosity and
timidity combined were quite amusing. We speculated upon the astonishment that would have seized
upon their simple, innocent hearts, had they beheld, instead of us, a bevy of our city fashionables
in full bloom.

At length we accepted an invitation to walk into the house, and sat, not under the good man's
roof, but under his chimney, a species of large funnel, into which nearly one end of the house
resolved itself. Here we sat upon some box-like benches before a wood fire, and warmed ourselves,
chatting with the family. While we were making ourselves comfortable and agreeable, we made
the novel and rather funny discovery of a hen sitting on her nest just under the bench, with
her red comb at our fingers' ends. A large griddle hung suspended in the more smoky regions
of the chimney, ready to be lowered for the baking of cakes or frying fish. Having tarred my
hand, the fisherman's wife, kind woman, insisted upon washing it herself. After rubbing it
with a little grease, she first scratched it with her finger-nail, and then finished with soap
and water and a good wiping with a coarse towel. I begged that she would spare herself the
trouble, and allow me to help myself. But it was no trouble at all for her, and the greatest
pleasure. And what should I know about washing off tar? They were members of the Church of
England, and seemed pleased when they found that I was a clergyman of the Episcopal Church.
They had a pastor who visited them and others in the village occasionally, and held divine
service on Sunday at Torbay, where they attended, going in boats in summer, and over the hills
on snow-shoes in the winter. The woman told me, in an undertone, that the family relations
were not all agreed in their religious faith, and that they could not stop there any longer,
but had gone to "America," which they liked much better. It was a hard country, any way, no
matter whether one were Protestant or Papist. Three months were all their summer, and nearly
all their time for getting ready for the long, cold winter. To be sure, they had codfish and
potatoes, flour and butter, tea and sugar; but then it took a deal of hard work to make ends
meet. The winter was not as cold as we thought, perhaps; but then it was so long and snowy!
The snow lay five, six, and seven feet deep. Wood was a great trouble. There was a plenty of
it, but they could not keep cattle or horses to draw it home. Dogs were their only teams, and
they could fetch but small loads at a time. In the mean while, a chubby little boy, with cheeks
like a red apple, had ventured from behind his young mother, where he had kept dodging as she
moved about the house, and edged himself up near enough to be patted on the head, and rewarded
for his little liberties with a half-dime.

THE ICEBERG.

The sunshine was now streaming in at a bit of a window, and I went out to see what prospect
of success. C., who had left some little time before, was nowhere to be seen. The fog seemed
to be in sufficient motion to disclose the berg down some of the avenues of clear air that
were opened occasionally. They all ended, however, with fog instead of ice. I made it convenient
to walk to the boat, and pocket a few cakes, brought along as a kind of scattering lunch. C.
was descried, at length, climbing the broad, rocky ridge, the eastern point of which we had
doubled on our passage from Torbay. Making haste up the crags by a short cut, I joined him
on the verge of the promontory pretty well heated and out of breath. The effort was richly
rewarded. The mist was dispersing in the sunny air around us; the ocean was clearing off; the
surge was breaking with a pleasant sound below. At the foot of the precipice were four or five
whales, from thirty to fifty feet in length, apparently. We could have tossed a pebble upon
them. At times abreast, and then in single file, or disorderly, round and round they went,
now rising with a puff followed by a wisp of vapor, then plunging into the deep again. There
was something in their large movements very imposing, and yet very graceless. There seemed
to be no muscular effort, no exertion of any force from within, and no more flexibility in
their motions than if they had been built of timber. They appeared to move very much as a wooden
whale might be supposed to move down a mighty rapid, roiling and plunging and borne along irresistibly
by the current. As they rose, we could see their mouths occasionally, and the lighter colors
of the skin below. As they went under, their huge, black tails, great winged things not unlike
the screw-wheel of a propeller, tipped up above the waves. Now and then one would give the
water a good round slap, the noise of which smote sharply upon the ear, like the crack of a
pistol in an alley. It was a novel sight to watch them in their play, or labor, rather; for
they were feeding upon the caplin, pretty little fishes that swarm along these shores at this
particular season. We could track them beneath the surface about as well as upon it. In the
sunshine, and in contrast with the fog, the sea was a very dark blue or deep purple. Above
the whales the water was green, a darker green as they descended, a lighter green as they came
up. Large oval spots of changeable green water, moving silently and shadow-like along, in strong
contrast with the surrounding dark, marked the places where the monsters were gliding below.
When their broad, blackish backs were above the waves, there was frequently a ring or ruffle
of snowy surf, formed by the breaking of the swell around the edges of the fish. The review
of whales, the only review we had witnessed in Her Majesty's dominions, was, on the whole,
an imposing spectacle. We turned from it to witness another of a more brilliant character.

To the north and east, the ocean, dark and sparkling, was, by the magic action of the wind,
entirely clear of fog; and there, about two miles distant, stood revealed the iceberg in all
its cold and solitary glory. It was of a greenish white, and of the Greek-temple form, seeming
to be over a hundred feet high. We gazed some minutes with silent delight on the splendid and
impressive object, and then hastened down to the boat, and pulled away with all speed to reach
it, if possible, before the fog should cover it again, and in time for C. to paint it. The
moderation of the oarsmen and the slowness of our progress were quite provoking. I watched
the sun, the distant fog, the wind and waves, the increasing motion of the boat, and the seemingly
retreating berg. A good half-hour's toil had carried us into broad waters, and yet, to all
appearance, very little nearer. The wind was freshening from the south, the sea was rising,
thin mists, a species of scout from the main body of the fog lying off in the east, were scudding
across our track. James Goss, our captain, threw out a hint of a little difficulty in getting
back. But Yankee energy was indomitable. C. quietly arranged his painting--apparatus, and I,
wrapped in my cloak more snugly, crept out forward on the little deck, a sort of look-out.
To be honest, I began to wish ourselves on our way back, as the black, angry-looking swells
chased us up, and flung the foam upon the bow and stern. All at once, whole squadrons of fog
swept up, and swamped the whole of us, boat and berg, in their thin, white obscurity. For a
moment we thought ourselves foiled again. But still the word was, "On!" And on they pulled,
the hard-handed fishermen, now flushed and moist with rowing. Again the ice was visible, but
dimly, in his misty drapery. There was no time to be lost. Now, or not at all. And so C. began.
For half an hour, pausing occasionally for passing flocks of fog, he plied the brush with a
rapidity not usual, and under disadvantages that would have mastered a less experienced hand.
We were getting close down upon the berg, and in fearfully rough water. In their curiosity
to catch glimpses of the advancing sketch, the men pulled with little regularity, and trimmed
the boat very badly. We were rolling frightfully to a landsman. C. begged of them to keep their
seats, and hold the barge just there as near as possible. To amuse them, I passed an opera-glass
around among them, with which they examined the iceberg and the coast. They turned out to be
excellent good fellows, and entered into the spirit of the thing in a way that pleased us.
I am sure they would have held on willingly till dark, if C. had only said the word, so much
interest did they feel in the attempt to paint the "island-of-ice." The hope was to linger
about it until sunset, for its colors, lights, and shadows. That, however, was suddenly extinguished.
Heavy fog came on, and we retreated, not with the satisfaction of a conquest, nor with the
disappointment of a defeat, but cheered with the hope of complete success, perhaps the next
day, when C. thought that we could return upon our game in a little steamer, and so secure
it beyond the possibility of escape. The seine was hauled from the stern to the centre of the
barge, and the men pulled away for Torbay, a long six miles, rough and chilly. For my part,
I was trembling with cold, and found it necessary to lend a hand at the oars, an exercise which
soon made the weather feel several degrees warmer, and rendered me quite comfortable. After
a little the wind lulled, the fog dispersed again, and the iceberg seemed to contemplate our
slow departure with complacent serenity. We regretted that the hour forbade a return. It would
have been pleasant to play around that Parthenon of the sea in the twilight. The best that
was left us was to look back and watch the effects of light, which were wonderfully fine, and
had the charm of entire novelty. The last view was the very finest. All the east front was
a most tender blue; the fissures on the southern face, from which we were rowing directly away,
were glittering green; the western front glowed in the yellow sunlight; around were the dark
waters, and above one of the most beautiful of skies.

We fell under the land presently, and passed near the northern cape of Flat-Rock Bay, a grand
headland of red sandstone, a vast and dome-like pile, fleeced at the summit with green turf
and shrubs of fir. The sun, at last, was really setting. There was the old magnificence of
the king of day,--airy deeps of ineffable blue and pearl, stained with scarlets and crimsons,
and striped with living gold. A blaze of white light, deepening into the richest orange, crowned
the distant ridge behind which the sun was vanishing. A vapory splendor, rose-color and purple,
was dissolving in the atmosphere; and every wave of the ocean, a dark violet, nearly black,
was "a flash of golden fire." Bathed with this almost supernatural glory, the headland, in
itself richly complexioned with red, brown, and green, was at once a spectacle of singular
grandeur and solemnity. I have no remembrance of more brilliant effects of light and color.
The view filled us with emotions of delight. We shot from beneath the great cliff into Flat-Rock
Bay, rounding, at length, the breakers and the cape into the smoother waters of Torbay. As
the oars dipped regularly into the polished swells, reflecting the heavens and the wonderful
shores, all lapsed into silence. In the gloom of evening the rocks assumed an unusual height
and sublimity. Gliding quietly below them, we were saluted every now and then by the billows
thundering in some adjacent cavern. The song of the sea in its old halls rung out in a style
quite unearthly. The slamming of the mighty doors seemed far off in the chambers of the cliff,
and the echoes trembled themselves away, muffled into stillness by the stupendous masses.

Thus ended our first real hunting of an iceberg. When we landed, we were thoroughly chilled.
Our man was waiting with his wagon, and so was a little supper in a house near by, which we
enjoyed with an appetite that assumed several phases of keenness as we proceeded. There was
a tower of cold roast beef, flanked by bread and butter and bowls of hot tea. The whole was
carried silently, without remark, at the point of knife and fork. We were a forlorn-hope of
two, and fell to, winning the victory in the very breach. We drove back over the fine gravel
road at a round trot, watching the last edge of day in the northwest and north, where it no
sooner fades than it buds again to bloom into morning. We lived the new iceberg-experience
all over again, and planned for the morrow. The stars gradually came out of the cool, clear
heavens, until they filled them with their sparkling multitudes. For every star we seemed to
have a lively and pleasurable thought, which came out and ran among our talk, a thread of light.
When we looked at the hour, as we sat fresh and wakeful, warming at our English inn in St.
John's, it was after midnight.

       *       *       *       *       *

THEODORE PARKER.

  "Sir Launcelot! ther thou lyest; thou were never matched of none
  earthly knights hands; thou were the truest freende to thy lover
  that ever bestrood horse; and thou were the kindest man that ever
  strooke with sword; and thou were the sternest knight to thy mortall
  foe that ever put spere in the rest." La Morte d'Arthur.

In the year 1828 there was a young man of eighteen at work upon a farm in Lexington, performing
bodily labor to the extent of twenty hours in a day sometimes, and that for several days together,
and at other times studying intensely when work was less pressing. Thirty years after, that
same man sat in the richest private library in Boston, working habitually from twelve to seventeen
hours a day in severer toil. The interval was crowded with labors, with acquisitions, with
reproaches, with victories, with honors; and he who experienced all this died exhausted at
the end of it, less than fifty years old, but looking seventy. That man was Theodore Parker.

The time is far distant when out of a hundred different statements of contemporaries some calm
biographer will extract sufficient materials for a true picture of the man; and meanwhile all
that each can do is to give fearlessly his own honest impressions, and so tempt others to give
theirs. Of the multitude of different photographers, each perchance may catch some one trait
without which the whole portraiture would have remained incomplete; and the time to secure
this is now, while his features are fresh in our minds. It is a daring effort, but it needs
to be made.

Yet Theodore Parker was so strong and self-sufficing upon his own ground, he needed so little
from any other, while giving so freely to all, that one would hardly venture to add anything
to the autobiographies he has left, but for the high example he set of fearlessness in dealing
with the dead. There may be some whose fame is so ill-established, that one shrinks from speaking
of them precisely as one saw them; but this man's place is secure, and that friend best praises
him who paints him just as he seemed. To depict him as he was must be the work of many men,
and no single observer, however intimate, need attempt it.

The first thing that strikes an observer, in listening to the words of public and private feeling
elicited by his departure, is the predominance in them all of the sentiment of love. His services,
his speculations, his contests, his copious eloquence, his many languages, these come in as
secondary things, but the predominant testimony is emotional. Men mourn the friend even more
than the warrior. No fragile and lovely girl, fading untimely into heaven, was ever more passionately
beloved than this white-haired and world-weary man. As he sat in his library, during his lifetime,
he was not only the awakener of a thousand intellects, but the centre of a thousand hearts;--he
furnished the natural home for every foreign refugee, every hunted slave, every stray thinker,
every vexed and sorrowing woman. And never was there one of these who went away uncomforted,
and from every part of this broad nation their scattered hands now fling roses upon his grave.

This immense debt of gratitude was not bought by any mere isolated acts of virtue; indeed,
it never is so bought; love never is won but by a nobleness which, pervades the life. In the
midst of his greatest cares there never was a moment when he was not all too generous of his
time, his wisdom, and his money. Borne down by the accumulation of labors, grudging, as a student
grudges, the precious hour that once lost can never be won back, he yet was always holding
himself at the call of some poor criminal, at the Police Office, or some sick girl in a suburban
town, not of his recognized parish perhaps, but longing for the ministry of the only preacher
who had touched her soul. Not a mere wholesale reformer, he wore out his life by retailing
its great influences to the poorest comer. Not generous in money only,--though the readiness
of his beneficence in that direction had few equals,--he always hastened past that minor bestowal
to ask if there were not some other added gift possible, some personal service or correspondence,
some life-blood, in short, to be lavished in some other form, to eke out the already liberal
donation of dollars.

There is an impression that he was unforgiving. Unforgetting he certainly was; for he had no
power of forgetfulness, whether for good or evil. He had none of that convenient oblivion which
in softer natures covers sin and saintliness with one common, careless pall. So long as a man
persisted in a wrong attitude before God or man, there was no day so laborious or exhausting,
no night so long or drowsy, but Theodore Parker's unsleeping memory stood on guard full-armed,
ready to do battle at a moment's warning. This is generally known; but what may not be known
so widely is, that, the moment the adversary lowered his spear, were it for only an inch or
an instant, that moment Theodore Parker's weapons were down and his arms open. Make but the
slightest concession, give him but the least excuse to love you, and never was there seen such
promptness in forgiving. His friends found it sometimes harder to justify his mildness than
his severity. I confess that I, with others, have often felt inclined to criticize a certain
caustic tone of his, in private talk, when the name of an offender was alluded to; but I have
also felt almost indignant at his lenient good-nature to that very person, let him once show
the smallest symptom of contrition, or seek, even in the clumsiest way, or for the most selfish
purpose, to disarm his generous antagonist. His forgiveness in such cases was more exuberant
than his wrath had ever been.

It is inevitable, in describing him, to characterize his life first by its quantity. He belonged
to the true race of the giants of learning; he took in knowledge at every pore, and his desires
were insatiable. Not, perhaps, precocious in boyhood,--for it is not precocity to begin Latin
at ten and Greek at eleven, to enter the Freshman class at twenty and the professional school
at twenty-three,--he was equalled by few students in the tremendous rate at which he pursued
every study, when once begun. With strong body and great constitutional industry, always acquiring
and never forgetting, he was doubtless at the time of his death the most variously learned
of living Americans, as well as one of the most prolific of orators and writers.

Why did Theodore Parker die? He died prematurely worn out through this enormous activity,--a
warning, as well as an example. To all appeals for moderation, during the latter years of his
life, he had but one answer,--that he had six generations of long-lived farmers behind him,
and had their strength to draw upon. All his physical habits, except in this respect, were
unexceptionable: he was abstemious in diet, but not ascetic, kept no unwholesome hours, tried
no dangerous experiments, committed no excesses. But there is no man who can habitually study
from twelve to seventeen hours a day (his friend Mr. Clarke contracts it to "from six to twelve,"
but I have Mr. Parker's own statement of the fact) without ultimate self-destruction. Nor was
this the practice during his period of health alone, but it was pushed to the last moment:
he continued in the pulpit long after a withdrawal was peremptorily prescribed for him; and
when forbidden to leave home for lecturing, during the winter of 1858, he straightway prepared
the most laborious literary works of his life, for delivery as lectures in the Fraternity Course
at Boston.

He worked thus, not from ambition, nor altogether from principle, but from an immense craving
for mental labor, which had become second nature to him. His great omnivorous, hungry intellect
must have constant food,--new languages, new statistics, new historical investigations, new
scientific discoveries, new systems of Scriptural exegesis. He did not for a day in the year
nor an hour in the day make rest a matter of principle, nor did he ever indulge in it as a
pleasure, for he knew no enjoyment so great as labor. Wordsworth's "wise passiveness" was utterly
foreign to his nature. Had he been a mere student, this had been less destructive. But to take
the standard of study of a German Professor, and superadd to that the separate exhaustions
of a Sunday-preacher, a lyceum-lecturer, a radical leader, and a practical philanthropist,
was simply to apply half a dozen distinct suicides to the abbreviation of a single life. And,
as his younger companions long since assured him, the tendency of his career was not only to
kill himself, but them; for each assumed that he must at least attempt what Theodore Parker
accomplished.

It is very certain that his career was much shortened by these enormous labors, and it is not
certain that its value was increased in a sufficient ratio to compensate for that evil. He
justified his incessant winter-lecturing by the fact that the whole country was his parish,
though this was not an adequate excuse. But what right had he to deprive himself even of the
accustomed summer respite of ordinary preachers, and waste the golden July hours in studying
Sclavonic dialects? No doubt his work in the world was greatly aided both by the fact and the
fame of learning, and, as he himself somewhat disdainfully said, the knowledge of Greek and
Hebrew was "a convenience" in theological discussions; but, after all, his popular power did
not mainly depend on his mastery of twenty languages, but of one. Theodore Parker's learning
was undoubtedly a valuable possession to the community, but it was not worth the price of Theodore
Parker's life.

"Strive constantly to concentrate yourself," said the laborious Goethe, "never dissipate your
powers; incessant activity, of whatever kind, leads finally to bankruptcy." But Theodore Parker's
whole endeavor was to multiply his channels, and he exhausted his life in the effort to do
all men's work. He was a hard man to relieve, to help, or to cooperate with. Thus, the "Massachusetts
Quarterly Review" began with quite a promising corps of contributors; but when it appeared
that its editor, if left alone, would willingly undertake all the articles,--science, history,
literature, everything,--of course the others yielded to inertia and dropped away. So, some
years later, when some of us met at his room to consult on a cheap series of popular theological
works, he himself was so rich in his own private plans that all the rest were impoverished;
nothing could be named but he had been planning just that for years, and should by-and-by get
leisure for it, and there really was not enough left to call out the energies of any one else.
Not from any petty egotism, but simply from inordinate activity, he stood ready to take all
the parts.

In the same way he distanced everybody; every companion-scholar found soon that it was impossible
to keep pace with one who was always accumulating and losing nothing. Most students find it
necessary to be constantly forgetting some things to make room for later arrivals; but the
peculiarity of his memory was that he let nothing go. I have more than once heard him give
a minute analysis of the contents of some dull book read twenty years before, and have afterwards
found the statement correct and exhaustive. His great library,--the only private library I
have ever seen which reminded one of the Astor,--although latterly collected more for public
than personal uses, was one which no other man in the nation, probably, had sufficient bibliographical
knowledge single-handed to select, and we have very few men capable of fully appreciating its
scholarly value, as it stands. It seems as if its possessor, putting all his practical and
popular side into his eloquence and action, had indemnified himself by investing all his scholarship
in a library of which less than a quarter of the books were in the English language.

All unusual learning, however, brings with it the suspicion of superficiality; and in this
country, where, as Mr. Parker himself said, "every one gets a mouthful of education, but scarce
one a full meal,"--where every one who makes a Latin quotation is styled "a ripe scholar,"--it
is sometimes difficult to distinguish the true from the counterfeit. It is, however, possible
to apply some tests. I remember, for instance, that one of the few undoubted classical scholars,
in the old-fashioned sense, whom New England has seen,--the late John Glen King of Salem,--while
speaking with very limited respect of the acquirements of Rufus Choate in this direction, and
with utter contempt of those of Daniel Webster, always became enthusiastic on coming to Theodore
Parker. "He is the only man," said Mr. King more than once to the writer, "with whom I can
sit down and seriously discuss a disputed reading and find him familiar with all that has been
written upon it." Yet Greek and Latin were only the preliminaries of Mr. Parker's scholarship.

I know, for one,--and there are many who will bear the same testimony,--that I never went to
Mr. Parker to talk over a subject which I had just made a speciality, without finding that
on that particular matter he happened to know, without any special investigation, more than
I did. This extended beyond books, sometimes stretching into things where his questioner's
opportunities of knowledge had seemed considerably greater,--as, for instance, in points connected
with the habits of our native animals and the phenomena of out-door Nature. Such were his wonderful
quickness and his infallible memory, that glimpses of these things did for him the work of
years. But, of course, it was in the world of books that this wonderful superiority was chiefly
seen, and the following example may serve as one of the most striking among many.

It happened to me, some years since, in the course of some historical inquiries, to wish for
fuller information in regard to the barbarous feudal codes of the Middle Ages,--as the Salic,
Burgundian, and Ripuarian,--before the time of Charlemagne. The common historians, even Hallam,
gave no very satisfactory information and referred to no very available books; and supposing
it to be a matter of which every well-read lawyer would at least know something, I asked help
of the most scholarly member of that profession within my reach. He regretted his inability
to give me any aid, but referred me to a friend of his, who was soon to visit him, a young
man, who was already eminent for legal learning. The friend soon arrived, but owned, with some
regret, that he had paid no attention to that particular subject, and did not even know what
books to refer to; but he would at least ascertain what they were, and let me know. (N.B. I
have never heard from him since.) Stimulated by ill-success, I aimed higher, and struck at
the Supreme Bench of a certain State, breaking in on the mighty repose of His Honor with the
name of Charlemagne. "Charlemagne?" responded my lord judge, rubbing his burly brow,--"Charlemagne
lived, I think, in the sixth century?" Dismayed, I retreated, with little further inquiry;
and sure of one man, at least, to whom law meant also history and literature, I took refuge
with Charles Sumner. That accomplished scholar, himself for once at fault, could only frankly
advise me to do at last what I ought to have done at first,--to apply to Theodore Parker. I
did so. "Go," replied he instantly, "to alcove twenty-four, shelf one hundred and thirteen,
of the College Library at Cambridge, and you will find the information you need in a thick
quarto, bound in vellum, and lettered 'Potgiesser de Statu Servorum.'" I straightway sent for
Potgiesser, and found my fortune made, it was one of those patient old German treatises which
cost the labor of one man's life to compile and another's to exhaust, and I had no reason to
suppose that any reader had disturbed its repose until that unwearied industry had explored
the library.

Amid such multiplicity of details he must sometimes have made mistakes, and with his great
quickness of apprehension he sometimes formed hasty conclusions. But no one has a right to
say that his great acquirements were bought by any habitual sacrifice of thoroughness. To say
that they sometimes impaired the quality of his thought would undoubtedly be more just; and
this is a serious charge to bring. Learning is not accumulation, but assimilation; every man's
real acquirements must pass into his own organization, and undue or hasty nutrition does no
good. The most priceless knowledge is not worth the smallest impairing of the quality of the
thinking. The scholar cannot afford, any more than the farmer, to lavish his strength in clearing
more land than he can cultivate; and Theodore Parker was compelled by the natural limits of
time and strength to let vast tracts lie fallow, and to miss something of the natural resources
of the soil. One sometimes wished that he had studied less and dreamed more,--for less encyclopedic
information, and more of his own rich brain.

But it was in popularizing thought and knowledge that his great and wonderful power lay. Not
an original thinker, in the same sense with Emerson, he yet translated for tens of thousands
that which Emerson spoke to hundreds only. No matter who had been heard on any subject, the
great mass of intelligent, "progressive" New-England thinkers waited to hear the thing summed
up by Theodore Parker. This popular interest went far beyond the circle of his avowed sympathizers;
he might be a heretic, but nobody could deny that he was a marksman. No matter how well others
seemed to have hit the target, his shot was the triumphant one, at last. Thinkers might find
no new thought in the new discourse, leaders of action no new plan, yet, after all that had
been said and done, his was the statement that told upon the community. He knew this power
of his, and had analyzed some of the methods by which he attained it, though, after all, the
best part was an unconscious and magnetic faculty. But he early learned, so he once told me,
that the New-England people dearly love two things,--a philosophical arrangement, and a plenty
of statistics. To these, therefore, he treated them thoroughly; in some of his "Ten Sermons"
the demand made upon the systematizing power of his audience was really formidable; and I have
always remembered a certain lecture of his on the Anglo-Saxons as the most wonderful instance
that ever came within my knowledge of the adaptation of solid learning to the popular intellect.
Nearly two hours of almost unadorned fact,--for there was far less than usual of relief and
illustration,--and yet the lyceum-audience listened to it as if an angel sang to them. So perfect
was his sense of purpose and of power, so clear and lucid was his delivery, with such wonderful
composure did he lay out, section by section, his historical chart, that he grasped his hearers
as absolutely as he grasped his subject: one was compelled to believe that he might read the
people the Sanscrit Lexicon, and they would listen with ever fresh delight. Without grace or
beauty or melody, his mere elocution was sufficient to produce effects which melody and grace
and beauty might have sighed for in vain. And I always felt that he well described his own
eloquence while describing Luther's, in one of the most admirably moulded sentences he ever
achieved,--"The homely force of Luther, who, in the language of the farm, the shop, the boat,
the street, or the nursery, told the high truths that reason or religion taught, and took possession
of his audience by a storm of speech, then poured upon them all the riches of his brave plebeian
soul, baptizing every head anew,--a man who with the people seemed more mob than they, and
with kings the most imperial man."

Another key to his strong hold upon the popular mind was to be found in his thorough Americanism
of training and sympathy. Surcharged with European learning, he yet remained at heart the Lexington
farmer's-boy, and his whole atmosphere was indigenous, not exotic. Not haunted by any of the
distrust and over-criticism which are apt to effeminate the American scholar, he plunged deep
into the current of hearty national life around him, loved it, trusted it, believed in it;
and the combination of this vital faith with such tremendous criticism of public and private
sins formed an irresistible power. He could condemn without crushing,--denounce mankind, yet
save it from despair. Thus his pulpit became one of the great forces of the nation, like the
New York "Tribune." His printed volumes had but a limited circulation, owing to a defective
system of publication, which his friends tried in vain to correct; but the circulation of his
pamphlet-discourses was very great; he issued them faster and faster, latterly often in pairs,
and they instantly spread far and wide. Accordingly he found his listeners everywhere; he could
not go so far West but his abundant fame had preceded him; his lecture-room in the remotest
places was crowded, and his hotel-chamber also, until late at night. Probably there was no
private man in the nation, except, perhaps, Beecher and Greeley, whom personal strangers were
so eager to see; while from a transatlantic direction he was sought by visitors to whom the
two other names were utterly unknown. Learned men from the continent of Europe always found
their way, first or last, to Exeter Place; and it is said that Thackeray, on his voyage to
this country, declared that the thing in America which he most desired was to hear Theodore
Parker talk.

Indeed, his conversational power was so wonderful that no one could go away from a first interview
without astonishment and delight. There are those among us, it may be, more brilliant in anecdote
or repartee, more eloquent, more profoundly suggestive; but for the outpouring of vast floods
of various and delightful information, I believe that he could have had no Anglo-Saxon rival,
except Macaulay. And in Mr. Parker's case, at least, there was no alloy of conversational arrogance
or impatience of opposition. He monopolized, not because he was ever unwilling to hear others,
but because they did not care to hear themselves when he was by. The subject made no difference;
he could talk on anything. I was once with him in the society of an intelligent Quaker farmer,
when the conversation fell on agriculture: the farmer held his own ably for a time; but long
after he was drained dry, our wonderful companion still flowed on exhaustless, with accounts
of Nova Scotia ploughing and Tennessee hoeing, and all things rural, ancient and modern, good
and bad, till it seemed as if the one amusing and interesting theme in the universe were the
farm. But it soon proved that this was only one among his thousand departments, and his hearers
felt, as was said of old Fuller, as if he had served his time at every trade in town.

But it must now be owned that these astonishing results were bought by some intellectual sacrifices
which his nearer friends do not all recognize, but which posterity will mourn. Such a rate
of speed is incompatible with the finest literary execution. A delicate literary ear he might
have had, perhaps, but he very seldom stopped to cultivate or even indulge it. This neglect
was not produced by his frequent habit of extemporaneous speech alone; for it is a singular
fact, that Wendell Phillips, who rarely writes a line, yet contrives to give to his hastiest
efforts the air of elaborate preparation, while Theodore Parker's most scholarly performances
were still stump-speeches. Vigorous, rich, brilliant, copious, they yet seldom afford a sentence
which falls in perfect cadence upon the ear; under a show of regular method, they are loose
and diffuse, and often have the qualities which he himself attributed to the style of John
Quincy Adams,--"disorderly, ill-compacted, and homely to a fault." He said of Dr. Channing,--"Diffuseness
is the old Adam of the pulpit. There are always two ways of hitting the mark,--one with a single
bullet, the other with a shower of small shot: Dr. Channing chose the latter, as most of our
pulpit orators have done." Theodore Parker chose it also.

Perhaps Nature and necessity chose it for him. If not his temperament, at least the circumstances
of his position, cut him off from all high literary finish. He created the congregation at
the Music Hall, and that congregation, in turn, moulded his whole life. For that great stage
his eloquence became inevitably a kind of brilliant scene-painting,--large, fresh, profuse,
rapid, showy;--masses of light and shade, wonderful effects, but farewell forever to all finer
touches and delicate gradations! No man can write for posterity, while hastily snatching a
half-day from a week's lecturing, during which to prepare a telling Sunday harangue for three
thousand people. In the perpetual rush and hurry of his life, he had no time to select, to
discriminate, to omit anything, or to mature anything. He had the opportunities, the provocatives,
and the drawbacks which make the work and mar the fame of the professional journalist. His
intellectual existence, after he left the quiet of West Roxbury, was from hand to mouth. Needing
above all men to concentrate himself, he was compelled by his whole position to lead a profuse
and miscellaneous life.

All popular orators must necessarily repeat themselves,--preachers chiefly among orators, and
Theodore Parker chiefly among preachers. The mere frequency of production makes this inevitable,--a
fact which always makes every finely organized intellect, first or last, grow weary of the
pulpit. But in his case there were other compulsions. Every Sunday a quarter part of his vast
congregation consisted of persons who had never, or scarcely ever, heard him before, and who
might never hear him again. Not one of those visitors must go away, therefore, without hearing
the great preacher define his position on every point,--not theology alone, but all current
events and permanent principles, the Presidential nomination or message, the laws of trade,
the laws of Congress, woman's rights, woman's costume, Boston slave-kidnappers, and Dr. Banbaby,--he
must put it all in. His ample discourse must be like an Oriental poem, which begins with the
creation of the universe, and includes all subsequent facts incidentally. It is astonishing
to look over his published sermons and addresses, and see under how many different names the
same stirring speech has been reprinted;--new illustrations, new statistics, and all remoulded
with such freshness that the hearer had no suspicions, nor the speaker either,--and yet the
same essential thing. Sunday discourse, lyceum lecture, convention speech, it made no difference,
he must cover all the points every time. No matter what theme might be announced, the people
got the whole latitude and longitude of Theodore Parker, and that was precisely what they wanted.
He broke down the traditional non-committalism of the lecture-room, and oxygenated all the
lyceums of the land. He thus multiplied his audience very greatly, while perhaps losing to
some degree the power of close logic and of addressing a specific statement to a special point.
Yet it seemed as if he could easily leave the lancet to others, grant him only the hammer and
the forge.

Ah, but the long centuries, where the reading of books is concerned, set aside all considerations
of quantity, of popularity, of immediate influence, and sternly test by quality alone,--judge
each author by his most golden sentence, and let all else go. The deeds make the man, but it
is the style which makes or dooms the writer. History, which always sends great men in groups,
gave us Emerson by whom to test the intellectual qualities of Parker. They cooperated in their
work from the beginning, in much the same mutual relation as now; in looking back over the
rich volumes of the "Dial," the reader now passes by the contributions of Parker to glean every
sentence of Emerson's, but we have the latter's authority for the fact that it was the former's
articles which originally sold the numbers. Intellectually, the two men form the complement
to each other; it is Parker who reaches the mass of the people, but it is probable that all
his writings put together have not had so profound an influence on the intellectual leaders
of the nation as the single address of Emerson at Divinity Hall.

And it is difficult not to notice, in that essay in which Theodore Parker ventured on higher
intellectual ground, perhaps, than anywhere else in his writings,--his critique on Emerson
in the "Massachusetts Quarterly,"--the indications of this mental disparity. It is in many
respects a noble essay, full of fine moral appreciations, bravely generous, admirable in the
loyalty of spirit shown towards a superior mind, and all warm with a personal friendship which
could find no superior. But so far as literary execution is concerned, the beautiful sentences
of Emerson stand out like fragments of carved marble from the rough plaster in which they are
imbedded. Nor this alone; but, on drawing near the vestibule of the author's finest thoughts,
the critic almost always stops, unable quite to enter their sphere. Subtile beauties puzzle
him; the titles of the poems, for instance, giving by delicate allusion the key-note of each,--as
"Astraea," "Mithridates," "Hamatreya," and "Étienne de la Boéce,"--seem to him the work of
"mere caprice"; he pronounces the poem of "Monadnoc" "poor and weak"; he condemns and satirizes
the "Wood-notes," and thinks that a pine-tree which should talk like Mr. Emerson's ought to
be cut down and cast into the sea.

The same want of fine discrimination was usually visible in his delineations of great men in
public life. Immense in accumulation of details, terrible in the justice which held the balance,
they yet left one with the feeling, that, after all, the delicate main-springs of character
had been missed. Broad contrasts, heaps of good and evil, almost exaggerated praises, pungent
satire, catalogues of sins that seemed pages from some Recording Angel's book,--these were
his mighty methods; but for the subtilest analysis, the deepest insight into the mysteries
of character, one must look elsewhere. It was still scene-painting, not portraiture; and the
same thing which overwhelmed with wonder, when heard in the Music Hall, produced a slight sense
of insufficiency, when read in print. It was certainly very great in its way, but not in quite
the highest way; it was preliminary work, not final; it was Parker's Webster, not Emerson's
Swedenborg or Napoleon.

The same thing was often manifested in his criticisms on current events. The broad truths were
stated without fear or favor, the finer points passed over, and the special trait of the particular
phase sometimes missed. His sermons on the last revivals, for instance, had an enormous circulation,
and told with great force upon those who had not been swept into the movement, and even upon
some who had been. The difficulty was that they were just such discourses as he would have
preached in the time of Edwards and the "Great Awakening"; and the point which many thought
the one astonishing feature of the new excitement, its almost entire omission of the "terrors
of the Lord," the far gentler and more winning type of religion which it displayed, and from
which it confessedly drew much of its power, this was entirely ignored in Mr. Parker's sermons.
He was too hard at work in combating the evangelical theology to recognize its altered phases.
Forging lightning-rods against the tempest, he did not see that the height of the storm had
passed by.

These are legitimate criticisms to make on Theodore Parker, for he was large enough to merit
them. It is only the loftiest trees of which it occurs to us to remark that they do not touch
the sky, and a man must comprise a great deal before we complain of him for not comprising
everything. But though the closest scrutiny may sometimes find cases where he failed to see
the most subtile and precious truth, it will never discover one where, seeing, he failed to
proclaim it, or, proclaiming, failed to give it force and power. He lived his life much as
he walked the streets of Boston,--not quite gracefully, nor yet statelily, but with quick,
strong, solid step, with sagacious eyes wide open, and thrusting his broad shoulders a little
forward, as if butting away the throng of evil deeds around him, and scattering whole atmospheres
of unwholesome cloud. Wherever he went, there went a glance of sleepless vigilance, an unforgetting
memory, a tongue that never faltered, and an arm that never quailed. Not primarily an administrative
nor yet a military mind, he yet exerted a positive control over the whole community around
him, by sheer mental and moral strength. He mowed down harvests of evil as in his youth he
mowed the grass, and all his hours of study were but whetting the scythe.

And for this great work it was not essential that the blade should have a razor's edge. Grant
that Parker was not also Emerson; no matter, he was Parker. If ever a man seemed sent into
the world to find a certain position, and found it, he was that man. Occupying a unique sphere
of activity, he filled it with such a wealth of success, that there is now no one in the nation
whom it would not seem an absurdity to nominate for his place. It takes many instruments to
complete the orchestra, but the tones of this organ the Music Hall shall never hear again.

One feels, since he is gone, that he made his great qualities seem so natural and inevitable,
we forgot that all did not share them. We forgot the scholar's proverbial reproach of timidity
and selfishness, in watching him. While he lived, it seemed a matter of course that the greatest
acquirements and the heartiest self-devotion should go together. Can we keep our strength,
without the tonic of his example? How petty it now seems to ask for any fine-drawn subtilties
of poet or seer in him who gave his life to the cause of the humblest! Life speaks the loudest.
We do not ask what Luther said or wrote, but only what he did; and the name of Theodore Parker
will not only long outlive his books, but will last far beyond the special occasions out of
which he moulded his grand career.

       *       *       *       *       *

ICARUS.

I.

Io triumphe! Lo, thy certain art, My crafty sire, releases us at length! False Minos now may
knit his baffled brows, And in the labyrinth by thee devised His brutish horns in angry search
may toss The Minotaur,--but thou and I are free! See where it lies, one dark spot on the breast
Of plains far-shining in the long-lost day, Thy glory and our prison! Either hand Crete, with
her hoary mountains, olive-clad In twinkling silver, 'twixt the vineyard rows, Divides the
glimmering seas. On Ida's top The sun, discovering first an earthly throne, Sits down in splendor:
lucent vapors rise From folded glens among the awaking hills, Expand their hovering films,
and touch, and spread In airy planes beneath us, hearths of air Whereon the morning burns her
hundred fires.

II.

Take thou thy way between the cloud and wave, O Daedalus, my father, steering forth To friendly
Samos, or the Carian shore! But me the spaces of the upper heaven Attract, the height, the
freedom, and the joy. For now, from that dark treachery escaped, And tasting power which was
the lust of youth, Whene'er the white blades of the sea-gull's wings Flashed round the headland,
or the barbéd files Of cranes returning clanged across the sky, No half-way flight, no errand
incomplete I purpose. Not, as once in dreams, with pain I mount, with fear and huge exertion
hold Myself a moment, ere the sickening fall Breaks in the shock of waking. Launched, at last,
Uplift on powerful wings, I veer and float Past sunlit isles of cloud, that dot with light
The boundless archipelago of sky. I fan the airy silence till it starts In rustling whispers,
swallowed up as soon; I warm the chilly ether with my breath; I with the beating of my heart
make glad The desert blue. Have I not raised myself Unto this height, and shall I cease to
soar? The curious eagles wheel about my path: With sharp and questioning eyes they stare at
me, With harsh, impatient screams they menace me, Who, with these vans of cunning workmanship
Broad-spread, adventure on their high domain,-- Now mine, as well. Henceforth, ye clamorous
birds, I claim the azure empire of the air! Henceforth I breast the current of the morn, Between
her crimson shores: a star, henceforth, Upon the crawling dwellers of the earth My forehead
shines. The steam of sacred blood, The smoke of burning flesh on altars laid, Fumes of the
temple-wine, and sprinkled myrrh, Shall reach my palate ere they reach the Gods.

III.

Nay, am not I a God? What other wing, If not a God's, could in the rounded sky Hang thus in
solitary poise? What need, Ye proud Immortals, that my balanced plumes Should grow, like yonder
eagle's, from the nest? It may be, ere my crafty father's line Sprang from Erectheus, some
artificer, Who found you roaming wingless on the hills, Naked, asserting godship in the dearth
Of loftier claimants, fashioned you the same. Thence did you seize Olympus; thence your pride
Compelled the race of men, your slaves, to tear The temple from the mountain's marble womb,
To carve you shapes more beautiful than they, To sate your idle nostrils with the reek Of gums
and spices, heaped on jewelled gold.

IV.

Lo, where Hyperion, through the glowing air
Approaching, drives! Fresh from his banquet-meats,
Flushed with Olympian nectar, angrily
He guides his fourfold span of furious steeds,
Convoyed by that bold Hour whose ardent torch
Burns up the dew, toward the narrow beach,
This long, projecting spit of cloudy gold
Whereon I wait to greet him when he comes.
Think not I fear thine anger: this day, thou,
Lord of the silver bow, shalt bring a guest
To sit in presence of the equal Gods
In your high hall: wheel but thy chariot near,
That I may mount beside thee!
                             ----What is this?
I hear the crackling hiss of singéd plumes!
The stench of burning feathers stifles me!
My loins are stung with drops of molten wax!--
Ai! ai! my ruined vans!--I fall! I die!

       *       *       *       *       *

Ere the blue noon o'erspanned the bluer strait Which parts Icaria from Samos, fell, Amid the
silent wonder of the air, Fell with a shock that startled the still wave, A shrivelled wreck
of crisp, entangled plumes, A head whence eagles' beaks had plucked the eyes, And clots of
wax, black limbs by eagles torn In falling: and a circling eagle screamed Around that floating
horror of the sea Derision, and above Hyperion shone.

       *       *       *       *       *

WALKER.

I confess to knowledge of a large book bearing the above title,--a title which is no less appropriate
for this brief, disrupted biographical memorandum. That I have a right to act as I have done,
in adopting it, will presently appear,--as well as that the honored name thus appropriated
by me refers neither io the dictionary nor the filibustero, both of which articles appear to
have been superseded by newer and better things.

At the first flush, Fur would seem to be rather a sultry subject to open either a store or
a story with, in these glowing days of a justly incensed thermometer.

And yet there is a fine bracing mountain-air to be drawn from the material, as with a spigot,
if you will only favor your mind with a digression from the tangible article to the wild-rose
associations in which it is enveloped.

Think of the high, wind-swept ridges, among the clefts of which are the only homesteads of
the hardy pioneers by whose agency alone one kind of luxury is kept up to the standard demand
for it in the great cities. It might not be so likely a place to get fancy drinks in as Broome
Street, certainly, we must admit, as we picture to ourselves some brushy ravine in which the
trapper has his irons cunningly set out for the betrayal of the stone-marten and the glossy-backed
"fisher-cat,"--but the breeze in it is quite as wholesome as a brandy-smash. The whirr of the
sage-hen's wing, as she rises from the fragrant thicket, brings a flavor with it fresher far
than that of the mint-julep. It is cheaper than the latter compound, too, and much more conducive
to health. Continuing to indulge our fancy in cool images connected with fur and its finders,
we shall see what contrasts will arise. The blue shadow of a cottonwood-tree stretching over
a mountain-spring. By the edge of the sparkling water sits, embroidering buckskin, a red-legged
squaw, keeper of the wigwam to the ragged mountain-man who set the traps that caught the martens
which furnished the tails that mark so gracefully the number of skins of which the rich banker's
wife's fichu-russe is composed. Here is a striking contrast, in which extremes meet,--not the
martens' tails, but the two men's wives, the banker's and the trapper's, brought into antithetical
relation by the simple circumstance of a fichu-russe, the material of which was worn in some
ravine of the wilderness, mayhap not a twelvemonth since, by a creature faster even than a
banker's wife. Great is the hereafter of the marten-cat, whose skin may be looked upon as the
soul by which the animal is destined to attain a sort of modified immortality in the Elysian
abodes of Wealth and Fashion,--the place where good martens go!

The men through whose intervention eventual felicity is thus secured to the fur-creature are
as much a race in themselves as the Gypsies. No genuine type of them ever approaches nearer
to the confines of civilization than a frontier settlement beckons him. Old Adams, the bear-tutor,
might have been of this type once, but he is adulterated with sawdust and gas-light now, with
city cookery and spurious groceries. Many men of French Canadian origin are to be found trading
and trapping in the Far West; although, taken in the aggregate, there are no people less given
to stirring enterprise than these colonial descendants of the Gaul. The only direction, almost,
in which they exhibit any expansive tendency is in the border trade and general adventure business,
in which figure the names of many of them conspicuously and with honor. The Chouteaus are of
that stock; and of that stock came the late Major Aubry, renowned among the guides and trappers
of the southwestern wilderness; and if J.C. Fremont is not a French Canadian by birth, the
strong efforts made about the time of the last Presidential election to establish him as one
had at least the effect of determining his Canadian descent.

Pierre La Marche was a Franco-Canadian of the spread-eagle kind referred to. Departing widely
from the conservative prejudices of his race, his wandering propensities took him away, at
an early age, from the primitive colonial village in which he first saw the light of day. He
was but fourteen years old when he left his peaceful and thoroughly whitewashed home on the
banks of the St. François, in company with a knot of Canadian voyageurs, whose principles tended
towards the Red River of the North. Leaving this convoy at Fond-du-Lac, he pushed his way on
to the Mississippi, alone and friendless, and, falling in with a party of trappers at St. Louis,
accompanied them when they returned to the mountain "gulches" in which their business lay.

After six years of trapper and trader life, but little trace of the simple young Canadian habitant
was left in Pierre La Marche. He spoke mountain English and French patois with equal fluency.
There was a decision of character about him that commanded the respect of his comrades. When
the other trappers went to St. Louis, they used to drink and gamble away their hard-won dollars,
few of these men caring for anything beyond the indulgence of immediate fancies. But Pierre
was ambitious, and thought that money might be made subservient to his aspirations in a better
way than speculating with it upon "bluff" or squandering it upon deteriorating drinks.

About this time of his life, Pierre began to think that the fact of his being "only a French
Canadian" was likely to be a bar to his advancement. He despised himself greatly for one thing,
indeed,--that his name was La Marche, and not Walker,--which patronymic he made out to be the
nearest Anglo-Saxon equivalent for his French one. He adopted it,--calling himself Peter Walker,--and
had an adventure out of it, to begin with.

While trading furs at St. Louis, on one occasion, he offered a remnant of his stock to a dealer
with whom he was not acquainted. They had an argument as to prices. The dealer, a man of hasty
temper, asked him his name.

"Walker," was the reply.

When La Marche arose from the distant corner into which he was projected in company with the
bundle of furs levelled at his head, revenge was his natural sentiment. Drawing his heavy knife
from its sheath, he flung it away: the temptation to use it might have been too much for him.
Small in stature, but remarkable for muscular strength, and for inventive resource in the "rough-and-tumble"
fight, La Marche clenched with the burly store-keeper, who was getting the worst of it, when
some of his employés interfered. This led to a general engagement. Several of La Marche's companions
now rushed in, and in five minutes their opponents gave out, succumbent to superior wind and sinew.

Next morning, when the trappers took their way out of St. Louis, La Marche was a leader among
them for life. But the reason of the store-keeper's rage was for many years a mystery to him.
He knew not the enormity of "Walker," as an exponent of disparagement; he simply thought it
a nicer name than La Marche, while it fully embodied the sentiment of that name. He adopted
it, then, as I said before, and went on towards posterity as Peter Walker.

I heard many strange anecdotes of Peter Walker at the residence of a retired voyageur, who
used to sing him Homerically to his chosen friends. These voyageurs are professional canoe-men;
adventurers extending, sparsely, from the waters of French Canada to those of Oregon,--and
sometimes back. Honest old Quatreaux! I mentioned his "residence" just now, and the term is
truly grandiloquent in its application. The residence of old Quatreaux was a log cabane, about
twenty feet square. Planks, laid loosely upon the cross-ties of the rafters, formed the up-stairs
of the building: up-ladder would be a term more in accordance with facts; for it was by an
appliance of that kind that the younger and more active of the sixteen members composing the
old voyageur's family removed themselves from view when they retired for the night. A partition,
extending half-way across the ground-floor, screened off the state or principal bed from outside
gaze; at least, it was exposed to view only from points rendered rather inaccessible by tubs,
with which these Canadian families are generally provided to excess. This apartment was strictly
assigned to me, as a visitor; and although I firmly declined the honor,--chiefly with reference
to certain large and very hard fleas I knew of in its dormitory arrangements,--it was kept
religiously vacant, in case my heart should relent towards it, and the family in general slept
huddled together on the outer floor, without manifest classification: the two old people; son
and wife; daughter and husband; children; the extraordinary little hunch-backed and one-eyed
girl, whom nobody would marry, but everybody liked; dogs. I used to stretch myself on a buffalo-robe
before the wood-fire, in company with a faithful spaniel, who was as wakeful on these occasions
as if he suspected that the low-bred curs of the establishment might pick his pockets.

Quatreaux's cabane was situated on the edge of an extensive tract of marsh,--lagoon would be
a more descriptive word for it, perhaps,--a splashy, ditch-divided district, extending along
the borders of a lake for miles. Snipe-shooting was my motive there; and dull work it was in
those dark, Novembry, October days, with "the low rain falling" half the time, and the yellow
leaves all the time, and no snipe. But whether we poled our log canoe up to some stunted old
willow-tree that sat low in the horizontal marsh, and took shelter under it to smoke our pipes,
or whether we mollified the privation of snipe in the cabane at night with mellow rum and tobacco
brought by me, still was Walker the old voyageur's favorite theme.

Old Quatreaux spoke English perfectly well, although his conservatism as a Canadian induced
him to prefer his mother tongue as a vehicle for general conversation. But I remarked that
his anecdotes of Walker were always related in English, and on these occasions, therefore,
for my benefit alone: for but little of the Anglo-Saxon tongue appeared to be known to, or
at least used by, any member of his numerous family. Indeed, I can recall but two words of
that language which I could positively aver to have heard in colloquial use among them,--poodare
and schotte. And why should the old voyageur have thus reserved his experiences from those
who were near and dear to him? Simply because most of his adventures with Walker were not of
the strictly mild character becoming a family-man. But it was all the same to these good people;
and when I laughed, they all took up the idea and laughed their best,--the little hunch-backed
girl generally going off into a kind of epilepsy by herself, over in the darkest corner of
the room, among the tubs.

When divested of the strange Western expletives and imprecations with which the old man used
to spice his reminiscences, some of them are enough. I remember one, telling how Peter Walker
"raised the wind" on a particular occasion, when he got short of money on his way to some distant
trading-post, in a district strange to him. It is before me, in short-hand, on the pages of
an old, old pocket-book, and I will tell it with some slight improvements on the narrator's
style, such as suppressing his unnecessary combinations of the curse.

Mounted on a two-hundred-dollar buffalo-horse, for which he would not have taken double that
amount, Peter Walker found himself, one afternoon, near the end of a long day's ride. He had
but little baggage with him, that little consisting entirely of a bowie-knife and holster-pistols,--for
the revolver was a scarce piece of furniture then and there. Of money he was entirely destitute,
having expended his last dollar upon the purchase of his noble steed, and of the festive suit
of clothes with which he calculated upon astonishing people who resided outside the limits
of civilization. The pantaloon division of that suit was particularly superb, consisting principally
of a stripe by which the outer seam of each leg was made conducive to harmony of outline. He
was about three days' journey from the trading-post to which he was bound. The country was
a frontier one, sparsely provided with inns.

The sun was framed in a low notch of the horizon, as he approached a border-hostelry, on the
gable of which "Cat's Bluff Hotel" was painted in letters quite disproportioned in size to
the city of Cat's Bluff, which consisted of the house in question, neither more nor less. In
that house Peter Walker decided upon sojourning luxuriously for that night, at least, if he
had to draw a check upon his holsters for it.

Having stabled his horse, then, and seen him supplied with such provender as the place afforded,
he looked about the hotel, which he found to be an institution of very considerable pretensions.
It seemed to have a good deal of its own way, in fact, being the only house of entertainment
for many miles upon a great south-western thoroughfare, from which branched off the trail to
be taken by him tomorrow,--a trail which led only to the trading-post or fort already mentioned.

The deportment of the landlord was gracious, as he went about whistling "Wait for the wagon,"
and jingling with gold chains and heavy jewelry. Still more exhilarating was the prosperous
confidence of the bar-keeper, who took in, while Walker was determining a drink, not less than
a dozen quarter-dollars, from blue-shirted, bearded, thirsty men with rifles, who came along
in a large covered wagon of western tendency, in which they immediately departed with haste,
late as it was, as if bound to drive into the sun before he went down behind the far-off edge.
Walker used to say, jocularly, that he supposed this must have been the wagon for which the
landlord whistled, and which came to his call.

Everything denoted that there was abundance of money in that favored place. Even small boys
who came in and called for cigars and drinks made a reckless display of coin as they paid for
them, and then drove off in their wagons,--for they all had wagons, and were all intent upon
driving rapidly in then toward the west.

But, as night fell, travel went down with the declining day; and Walker felt himself alone
in the world,--a man without a dollar. Nevertheless, he called for good cheer, which was placed
before him on a liberal scale: for landlords thereabouts were accustomed to provide for appetites
acquired on the plains, and their supply was obliged to be both large and ready for the chance
comers who were always dropping in, and upon whom their custom depended. So he ate and drank;
and having appeased hunger and thirst, he went into the bar, and opened conversation with the
landlord by offering him one of his own cigars, a bunch of which he got from the bar-keeper,
whom he particularly requested not to forget to include them in his bill, when the time for
his departure brought with it the disagreeable necessity of being served with that document.

Western landlords, in general, are not remarkable for the reserve with which they treat their
guests. This particular landlord was less so than most others. He was especially inquisitive
with regard to Walker's exquisite pantaloons, the like of which had never been seen in that
part of the country before. His happiness was evidently incomplete in the privation of a similar
pair.

"Them pants all wool, now?" asked he, as he viewed them with various inclinations of head,
like a connoisseur examining a picture.

"All except the stripes," replied Walker;--"stripes is wool and cotton mixed; gives 'em a finer
grain, you see, and catches the eye."

The landlord respected Walker at once. Perhaps he might be an Eastern dry-goods merchant, come
along for the purpose of making arrangements to inundate the border-territory with stuffs for
exquisite pantaloons. He proceeded with his interrogatories. He laid himself out to extract
from Walker all manner of information as to his origin, occupation, and prospects, which gave
the latter an excellent opportunity of glorifying himself inferentially, while he affected
mystery and reticence with regard to his mission "out West." At last the landlord set him down
for an agent come on to open the sluices for a great tide of foreign emigration into the territory,--an
event to which he himself had been looking for a long time, and the prospect of which had guided
him to the spot where he had established his hotel, which he now looked upon as the centre
from which a great city was destined immediately to radiate. And the landlord retired to his
bed to meditate upon immense speculations in town-lots, and, when sleep came upon him, to dream
that he had successfully arranged them through the medium of an angel with a speaking-trumpet,
whose manifest wardrobe consisted of a pair of fancy pantaloons with stripes on the seams and
side-pockets, exactly like Walker's.

Walker, too, retired to rest, but not to sleep, for his mind was occupied in turning over means
whereby to obtain some of the real capital with which people here seemed to be superabundantly
provided. He had speculations to carry out, and money was the indispensable element. Had he
only been able to read the landlord's thoughts, he might have turned quietly over and slept;
for so held was that person's mind by the idea that his ultimate success was to be achieved
through the medium of his unknown guest, that he would without hesitation have lent him double
the sum necessary for his financial arrangements.

There was a disturbance some time about the middle of the night. People came along in wagons,
as usual, waking up the bar-keeper, whose dreams perpetually ran upon that kind of trouble.
Walker, who was wide awake, gathered from the conversation below that the travellers had only
halted for drinks, and would immediately resume their way westward with all speed. He arose
and looked out at the open window, which was about fifteen feet from the ground. Something
white loomed up through the darkness: it was the awning of one of the wagons, which stood just
under the window, to the sill of which it reached within a few feet. Walker, brought up in
the rough-and-ready school, had lain down to rest with his trousers on. A sudden inspiration
now seized him: he slipped them rapidly off, and dropped them silently on to the roof of the
wagon, which soon after moved on with the others, and disappeared into the night. This done,
he opened softly the door of the room, and, leaving it ajar, returned to bed and slept.

Morning was well advanced when Walker arose, and began operations by moving the furniture about
in an excited manner, to attract the attention of those in the bar below, and convey an idea
of search. Presently he went to the door of the room, and, uttering an Indian howl, by way
of securing immediate attendance, cried out,--

"Hullo, below! where's my pants?--bar-keeper, fetch along my pants!--landlord, I don't want
to be troublesome, but just take off them pants, if you happen to have mistook 'em for your
own, and oblige the right owner with a look at 'em, will you?"

Puzzled at this address, which was couched in much stronger language--according to old Quatreaux's
version of it--than I should like to commit to paper, the landlord and bar-keeper at once proceeded
to Walker's room, where they found him sitting, expectantly, on the side of the bed, with his
horse-pistols gathered together beside him. Of course, they denied all knowledge of his pantaloons,--didn't
steal nobody's pants in that house, nor nothin'.

Walker looked sternly at them, and, playing with one of his pistols, exclaimed, with the usual
redundants,--

"You lie!--you've stole my pants between you; you've found out what they were worth by this
time, I guess; but I'll have 'em back, and that in a hurry, or else my name a'n't Walker,--Peter
Walker."

He added his Christian name, because a reminiscence of the mystery belonging to his patronymic
by itself flashed upon him.

Now the name of Pete Walker was potent along the frontier, because of his influence with the
wild mountain-men, who did reckless deeds on his account, unknown to him and otherwise. Another
vision than that of last night overcame the landlord,--a vision of Lynch and ashes.

"So you're Pete Walker, be you?" asked he, in a tone of mingled respect and admiration, slightly
tremulous with fear. "How do you do, Mr. Walker?--how do you find yourself this morning, Sir?"

"I didn't come here to find myself," retorted Walker, fiercely. "I found my door open, though,
when I woke up,--but I couldn't find my pants. You must get 'em, or pay for 'em, and that right
away."

"Them cusses that passed through here last night!" exclaimed the landlord. "I guess the pants
is gone on the sundown trail, stripes and all."

Walker thought it was quite probable that they had; but they were stolen from that house, and
the house must pay for them.

Lynch and ashes again blazed before the landlord's eyes.

"How much might the pants be worth, now, at cost price?" asked he. "All wool, you say, only
the stripes; but, as they was nearly all stripes, you needn't holler much about the wool, I
reckon. How much, now?"

"Two hundred and ten dollars," replied Walker, with impressive exactness.

"Thunder!" exclaimed the landlord. "I thought they might be fancy-priced, sure-ly, but that's
awful!"

"Ten dollars, cash price, for the pants," proceeded Walker, "and two hundred for that exact
amount in gold stitched up in the waistband of em."

"The Devil has got 'em, anyhow!" said the landlord,--"for I saw a queer critter, in my sleep,
flying about with 'em on. Wings looks kinder awful along o' pants with stripes. There'll be
no luck round till they're paid for, I guess. Couldn't you take my best checkers for 'em, now,
with fifty dollars quilted into the waistband,--s-a-ay?"

"My name's Walker,--Peter Walker," was the reply.

The landlord was no match for that name, so disagreeably redolent of Lynch and ashes. Thorough
search was made upon the premises, and to some distance around, in the wild hope that the missing
trousers might have walked off spontaneously, and lain down somewhere to sleep; but, of course,
nothing came of the investigation, although Walker assisted at it with his usual energy. All
compromise was rejected by him, and it was not yet noon when he rode proudly away from the
lone hostelry, in the landlord's best checkers, for which he kindly allowed him five dollars,
receiving from him the balance, two hundred and five dollars, in gold.

I forget now what Walker did with that money, although Quatreaux knew exactly, and told me
all about it. Suffice it to say that he made a grand coup with it, in the purchase of a mill-privilege,
or claim, or something of the kind. Less than a year after the events narrated, he again rode
up to the lone hostelry, which was not so lonely now, however; for houses were growing up around
it, and it took boarders and rang a dinner-bell, and maintained a landlady as well as a landlord,
besides. The landlord was astonished when Walker counted out to him two hundred and five dollars
in gold,--surprised when to that was added a round sum for interest,--ecstatic, on being presented
with a brand-new pair of pantaloons, of the same pattern as the expensive ones formerly so
admired by him. But his features collapsed, and for some time wore an expression of imbecility,
when he learned the details of the adventure, and found out that "some things"--landlords,
for example--"can be done as well as others."

It was with little reminiscences like the one just narrated that old Quatreaux used to wile
away the time, as we threaded the intricate ditches of the marsh in his canoe, so hedged in
by the tall reeds that our horizon was within paddle's length of us. With that presumptive
clairvoyance which appears to be an essential property of the French raconteur, he did not
confine himself to external fact in his narratives, but always professed to report minutely
the thoughts that flashed through the mind of such and such a person, on the particular occasion
referred to. He was a master of dialects,--Yankee, Pennsylvanian Dutch, and Irish.

"Where did you get your English, old man?" I asked him, as we scudded across the lake in our
canoe, with a small sail up, one red October evening.

"In Pennsylvania," replied he. "I went there on my own hook, when I was about twelve year old,
and worked in an oil-mill for four year."

"In an oil-mill? Perhaps that accounts for the glibness with which language slips off your tongue."

"'Guess it do," said the old voyageur, with ready assent.

We nearly got foul of a raft coming down the lake, manned with a rugged set of half-breeds,
who had a cask of whiskey on board, and were very drunk and boisterous.

"Ugly customers to deal with, those brûlés," remarked I, when we had got clear away from them.

"Some on 'em is," replied the old voyageur. "Did you notice the one with the queer eye,--him
in the Scotch cap and shupac moccasons?"

I had noticed him, and an ill-looking thief he was. One of his eyes, either from natural deformity
or the effect of hostile operation, was dragged down from its proper parallel, and planted
in a remote socket near the corner of his mouth, whence it glared and winked with super-natural
ferocity.

"That's Rupe Falardeau," continued my companion. "His father, old Rupe, got his eye taken down
in a deck-fight with a Mississippi boatman; and this boy was born with the same mark,--only
the eye's lower down still. If that's to go on in the family, I guess there'll be a Falardeau
with his eye in his knee, some time."

In the deck-fight in which old Rupe got his ugly mark Pete Walker had a hand; and the part
he took in it, as related to me by old Quatreaux, who was also present, affords a good example
of the tact and coolness which gave him such mastery over the wild spirits among whom he worked
out his destiny.

Walker was coming down a lumbering-river--I forget the name of it--on board a small tug-steamboat,
in which he had an interest. He had gone into other speculations beside furs, by this time,
and had contracts in two or three places for supplying remote stations with salt pork, tea,
and other staple provisions of the lumbering-craft.

Stopping to wood at the mouth of a creek, a gang of raftsmen came on board,--half-breed Canadians
of fierce and demoralized aspect,--men of great muscular strength, and armed heavily with axes
and butcher-knives. The gang was led by Rupe Falardeau, a dangerous man, whether drunk or sober,
and one whose antecedents were recorded in blood. These men had been drinking, and were very
noisy and intrusive, and presently a row arose between them and some of the boat-hands. Fisticuffs
and kicks were first exchanged, but without any great loss of blood. Knives were then drawn
and nourished, and matters were beginning to assume a serious aspect, when Walker made his
appearance forward of the paddle-box, pointing a heavy pistol right at the head of the ringleader.

"Rupe!" shouted he, in a voice that attracted immediate attention, "drop that knife, or else
I shoot!"

The crowd parted for a moment, and Rupe, standing alone near the bows, wheeled round with a
yell, and glared fiercely at the speaker.

"Drop that knife!" repeated Walker.--"One, two, three!--I'll give you a last chance, and when
I say three again, I shoot, by thunder!"

The last word had not rolled away, when the gleaming knife flashed from the hand of Rupe, glanced
close by Walker's ear, and sped quivering into the paddle-box, just behind his head.

"Good for you, Rupe!" exclaimed Walker, lowering his pistol, with a pleasant smile,--"good
for you!--but, sacré bapteme! how dead I'd have shot you, if you hadn't dropped that knife!"

The forbearance of Walker put an end to the row. Rupe, disarmed at once by the loss of his
knife and the coolness of Walker, was seized by a couple of the deck-hands, and might have
been secured without injury to his beauty, had not a Mississippi boatman, who owed him an old
grudge, struck him on the face with a heavy iron hook, lacerating and disfiguring him hideously
for life.

"But why didn't Walker shoot Falardeau, old man?" asked I of the voyageur, wishing to learn
something of the etiquette of life and death among these peculiar people, who appear to be
so reckless of the former and fearless of the latter.

"Ah!" replied he, "Rupe was too valuable to be shot down for missing a man with a knife. Such
a canoe-steersman as Rupe never was known before or since: he knew every rock in every rapid
from the Ottawa to the Columbia."

Some time after this I again fell in with young Rupe, under circumstances indicating that his
life was not considered quite so valuable as that of the old gentleman from whom he inherited
his frightful aspect.

In company with a friend, one day, I was beating about for wild-fowl in a marshy river, down
which small rafts or "cribs" of timber were worked by half-breeds and Canadians.

About dark we came to a small, flat island in the marsh, where we found an Iroquois camp, in
which we proposed to pass the night, as we had no camping-equipage in our skiff. The men were
absent, hunting, and there was nobody in charge of the wigwam but an ugly, undersized squaw,
with her two ugly, undersized children.

We were much fatigued, and agreed to sleep by watches, knowing the sort of people we had to
deal with. It was my watch, when voices were heard as of men landing and pulling up a canoe
or boat. Presently three men came into the wigwam, railing-men, dressed in gray Canada homespun
and heavy Scotch bonnets. The light of the fire outside flashed on their faces, as they stooped
to enter the elm-bark tent, and in the foremost I recognized the hideous Rupe Falardeau, Junior.
This man carried in his hand a small tin pail full of whiskey. He was very drunk and dangerous,
and greatly disgusted at the absence of the Iroquois men, with whom he had evidently laid himself
out for a roaring debauch.

I woke up my companion, and a judicious display of our double-barrelled guns kept the three
scoundrels in check. They insisted on our tasting some of their barbarous liquor, however,
and horrible stuff it was,--distiller's "high-wines," strongly dashed with vitriol or something
worse. No wonder that men become fiends incarnate on such "fire-water" as that!

By-and-by they slept,--two of them outside, by the fire,--Falardeau inside the wigwam, the
repose of which was broken by the hollow rattle of his drunken breath.

In the dead of the night something clutched me by the arm. It was the ugly squaw, who forced
a greasy butcher-knife into my hand, pointing towards where the raftsman lay, and whispering
to me in English,--"Stick heem! stick heem!--nobody never know. He kill my brother long time
ago with this old knife. Kill heem! kill heem now!"

I did not avail myself of the opportunity thus afforded me for the improvement of river society:
nay, worse, I connived at the further career of the redoubtable Rupert Falardeau, Junior; for,
on leaving in the morning, I roused him with repeated kicks, thus saving him for that time,
probably, from the Damoclesian blade of the vengeresse.

L'été de Saint Martin!--how blue and yellow it is in the marshes in those days! It is the name
given by the French Canadians to the Indian Summer,--the Summer of St. Martin, whose anniversary-day
falls upon the eleventh of November; though the brief latter-day tranquillity called after
him arrives, generally, some two or three weeks earlier. Looking lakeward from the sedgy nook
in which we are waiting for the coming of the wood-ducks, the low line of water, blue and calm,
is broken at intervals by the rise of the distant masquallongé, as he plays for a moment on
the surface. But the channels that separate the flat, alluvial islets are yellow, their sluggish
waters being bedded heavily down with the broad leaves of the wintering basswood-trees, which,
in some places, touch branch-tips across the narrow straits. The muskrat's hut is thatched
with the wet, dead leaves,--no thanks to him; and there is a mat of them before his door,--a
heavy, yellow mat, on which are scattered the azure shells of the fresh-water clams to be found
so often upon the premises of this builder. Does he sup on them, or are they only the cups
and saucers of his vegeto-aquarian ménage? Blue and yellow all,--the sky and the sedge-rows,
the calm lake and the canoe, the plashing basswood-leaves and the oval, azure shells.

Also Marance, the voyageur's buxom young daughter, who came with us, today, commissioned to
cull herbs of wondrous properties among the vine-tangled thickets of the islands. Blue and
yellow. Eyes blue as the azure shells; hair flashing out golden gleams, like that of Pyrrha,
when she braided hers so featly for the coming of some ambrosial boy.

"I must marry you, Marance," said I, jocularly, to the damsel, as I jumped her out of the canoe,--"I
shall marry you when we get back."

It is good to live in a marsh. No fast boarding-house women there, lurking for the unwary;
no breaches of promise; "no nothing" in the old-man-trap line. Abjure fast boarding-houses,
you silly old bachelors, and go to grass in a marsh!

Marance laughed merrily, as she tripped away; then, turning, she said,--

"But what if I never get back? I may lose myself in these lonely places, and never be heard
of again."

"Oh, in that case," replied I, hard driven for a compliment, "in that case, I must wait until
Gilette"--a younger sister--"grows up. She will be exactly like you: I must only wait for Gilette."

"You remind me of Pete Walker," said the old man, as we shot away up the channel, our canoe
ripping up the matted surface like the cue of a novice, when he runs a fatal reef along the
sere and yellow cloth of some billiard-table erewhile in verdure clad. "You are as bad as Pete
Walker, who thought one sister must be as good as another, because they looked so much alike."

And then, as we loitered about in the bays, the old man told me the story of Walker's honeymoon,
which was a sad and a short one. This is the story.

Near that wild rapid of the Columbia River known as the "Dalles," there was, years ago, a Jesuit
mission, established in a small fort, built, like that at Nez-Percés, of mud. The labors of
the holy men composing the mission involved no inconsiderable amount of danger, devoted as
they were to the hopeless task of reforming such sinners as the Sioux, the Blackfeet, the Gros-Ventres,
the Flat-Heads, the Assiniboines, the Nez-Percés, and a few other such.

Some of these missionaries had sojourned for a long time with a branch of the Blackfoot tribe,
among whom they found two young white girls, remarkable for their exact resemblance to each
other, and therefore supposed to be twins. I say supposed, because of their origin there was
no trace. All that was known about them was, that they were the sole survivors of a train of
emigrants, attacked and murdered by the Nez-Percés, who, actuated by one of those whims characteristic
of the red men, spared the lives of the two children, and adopted them into the tribe. Subsequently,
in a skirmish with the Blackfeet, they fell into the hands of the latter, among whom they had
lived for some time, when they were ransomed by the missionaries, at the price of certain trading-privileges
negotiated by the latter for the tribe.

When adopted by the Jesuits, the children had lost all remembrance of their parentage; nor
had they any names except the Indian ones bestowed upon them by their captors. The good fathers
christened them, however, arranging them alphabetically, by the names of Alixe and Bloyse,
and confiding them to the especial charge of the wife of a trader connected with the station,
who had no family of her own. They were fair-haired children, probably of German or Norwegian
origin, and had grown up to be robust young women of seventeen, when Walker saw them for the
first time, as he stopped at the Dalles on his way from Fort Nez-Percés about one hundred and
twenty-five miles higher up the Columbia.

Walker, whose business detained him for some time at the mission, decided upon marrying one
of the fair-haired sisters,--he did not much care which, they were so singularly alike. Alixe
happened to be the one, however, to whom he tendered a share in his fortunes, which she accepted
in the random manner of one to whom it was of but little consequence whether she said "Yes"
or "No." Bloyse would have followed him, and him only, to the end of all; but he never knew
it at the right time, though the women of the fort could have told him.

It was late one afternoon when he was married to Alixe, in the chapel of the mission. That
was the night of the massacre. Two hours after the wedding, the Blackfeet, combined with some
allied tribe, came down like wolves upon the fort. There was treachery, somewhere, and they
got in. In the thick of the fight, and when all seemed hopeless, Walker shot down a tall Indian
who was dragging his bride away to where the horses of the tribe were picketed. In a second
he had leaped upon a horse, and, holding the young girl before him, galloped away in the direction
of a stream running into the Columbia,--a stream of fierce torrents, navigable only at one
place, and that by flat-bottomed boats or scows, in which passengers warped themselves across
by a grass rope stretched from bank to bank. Once over this river, he could easily reach a
friendly camp, where he and his bride would have been in safety.

The moon had risen when he reached the ferry. Turning the horse adrift, he lifted the young
woman into the scow, and began to warp rapidly across by the rope with one hand, while he supported
his fainting companion close to him with the other. Suddenly, a sharp click sounded from the
opposite bank: the rope gave way, and Walker and his companion were precipitated violently
into the water, the boat shooting far away from beneath their feet. It ran a strong current
there, culminating in a furious rapid not two hundred yards lower down. Retaining his grasp
of the young woman, Walker fought bravely against the stream, down which he felt they were
sweeping, faster and faster, until a violent concussion deprived him, for a moment, of consciousness.
When he came to himself, he was still swimming, but his companion was gone. The current had
driven them forcibly against a rock, throwing her from his grasp. The wild rapid was just below
them. She was never heard of again; but Walker managed to reach the shore, where he must have
lain long in an exhausted condition, for it was daylight when he awoke to any recollection
of what had happened.

The ferry-rope had been cut, as he afterwards discovered, by an Indian, in whose brother's
removal by hanging he had been instrumental, and who had been watching him, day and night,
for the purpose of wreaking a bitter vengeance.

Returning to reconnoitre, with some of his friends, Walker found the mission a heap of ruins,--blackened
walls, charred rafters, and unrecognizable human remains.

Long afterwards, he learned that his bride was again living among the Blackfeet;--for it was
Bloyse, and not Alixe, with whom he had galloped away to the fatal ferry, in the confusion
of that terrible night. It was poor Bloyse who went away from his arms down those crushing
rapids. It was Alixe, his bride, who shot back the bolts for the entrance of the Blackfeet.
She was secretly betrothed in the tribe, and it was her betrothed whom Walker shot down as
he was rushing away in triumph with his supposed fiancée of the pale-faces. She married another
Indian of the tribe, however; for she was a savage woman at heart, and could live among savages
only.

"Sisters may be as like as two walnuts, to look at," said the old voyageur, when he had finished
his narration. "Take any two walnuts from a heap, at random, though, and, like as not, you'll
find one on 'em all heart and the other all hollow."

"True," replied I; "but these be wild adventures for one whose boyhood was passed in a peaceful
and thoroughly whitewashed home on the banks of the St. François."

"'Guess they be," said the old voyageur.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATIONAL INTELLIGENCER AND ITS EDITORS.

The families of Gales and Seaton are, in their origin, the one Scotch, the other English. The
Seatons are of that historic race, a daughter of which (the fair and faithful Catherine) is
the heroine of one of Sir Walter Scott's romances. It was to be supposed that they whose lineage
looked to such an instance of devoted personal affection for the ancient line would not slacken
in their loyalty when fresh calamities fell upon the Stuarts and again upset their throne.
Accordingly, the Seatons appear to have clung to the cause of their exiled king with fidelity.
Henry Seaton seems to have made himself especially obnoxious to the new monarch, by taking
part in those Jacobite schemes of rebellion which were so long kept on foot by the lieges and
gentlemen of Scotland; so that, when, towards the close of the seventeenth century, the cause
he loved grew desperate, and Scotland itself anything but safe for a large body of her most
gallant men, he was forced, like all others that scorned to submit, to fly beyond the seas.
Doing so, it was natural that he should choose to take refuge in a Britain beyond the ocean,
where a brotherly welcome among his kindred awaited the political prescript. It is probable,
however, that a special sympathy towards that region which, by its former fidelity to the Stuarts,
had earned from them the royal quartering of its arms and the title of "The Ancient Dominion,"
directed his final choice. At any rate, it was to Virginia that he came,--settling there, as
a planter, first in the county of Gloucester, and afterwards in that of King William. From
one of his descendants in a right line sprang (by intermarriage with a lady of English family,
the Winstons) William Winston Seaton, the editor, whose mother connected him with a second
Scotch family, the Henrys,--the mother of Patrick Henry being a Winston. These last had come,
some three generations before, from the old seat of that family in its knightly times, Winston
Hall, in Yorkshire, and had settled in the county of Hanover, where good estates gave them
rank among the gentry; while commanding stature, the gift of an equally remarkable personal
beauty, a very winning address, good parts, high character, and the frequent possession among
them of a fine natural eloquence, gave them as a race an equal influence over the body of the
people. In William (popularly called Langaloo) and his sister Sarah, the mother of Patrick
Henry, these hereditary qualities seem to have been particularly striking; so that, in their
day, it seemed a sort of received opinion that it was from the maternal side that the great
orator derived his extraordinary powers.

The Galeses are of much more recent naturalization amongst us,--later by just about a century
than that of the Seatons, but alike in its causes. For they, too, were driven hither by governmental
resentment. Their founder, (as he may be called,) the elder Joseph Gales, was one of those
rare men who at times spring up from the body of the people, and by mere unassisted merit,
apart from all adventitious advantages, make their way to a just distinction. Perhaps no better
idea of him can be given than by likening him to one, less happy in his death, whom Science
is now everywhere lamenting,--the late admirable Hugh Miller. A different career, rather than
an inferior character, made Joseph Gales less conspicuous. He was born in 1761, at Eckington,
near the English town of Sheffield. The condition of his family was above dependence, but not
frugality.

Be education what else it may, there is one sort which never fails to work well: namely, that
which a strong capacity, when denied the usual artificial helps, shapes out to its own advantage.
Such, with little and poor assistance, became that of Joseph Gales, obtained progressively,
as best it could be, in the short intervals which the body can allow to be stolen between labor
and necessary rest.

Now the writer is thoroughly convinced, that, after this boy had worked hard all the day long,
he never would have sat down to study half the night through, if it had not been a pleasure
to him. In short, no sort of toil went hard with him. For he was a fine, manly youngster, cheerful
and stalwart, one who never slunk from what he had set about, nor turned his back except upon
what was dishonest. He wrought lightsomely, and even lustily, at his coarser pursuits; for,
in that sturdy household, to work had long been held a duty.

Thus improving himself, at odd hours, until he was fit for the vocation of a printer, and looked
upon by the village as a genius, our youth went to Manchester, and applied himself to that
art, not only for itself, but as the surest means of further knowledge. Of course he became
a master in the craft. At length, returning to his own town to exercise it, he grew, by his
industry and good conduct, into a condition to exercise it on his own account, and set up a
newspaper,--"The Sheffield Register."

Born of the people, it was natural that Joseph Gales should in his journal side with the Reformers;
and he did so: but with that unvarying moderation which his good sense and probity of purpose
taught him, and which he ever after through life preserved. He kept within the right limits
of whatever doctrine he embraced, and held a measure in all his political principles,--knowing
that the best, in common with the worst, tend, by a law of all party, to exaggeration and extremes.
Beyond this temperateness of mind nothing could move him. Thus guarded, by a rare equity of
the understanding, from excess as to measures, he was equally guarded by a charity and a gentleness
of heart the most exhaustless. In a word, it may safely be said of him, that, amidst all the
heats of faction, he never fell into violence,--amidst all the asperities of public life, never
stooped to personalities,--and in all that he wrote, left scarcely an unwise and not a single
dishonest sentence behind him.

Such qualities, though not the most forward to set themselves forth to the public attention,
should surely bring success to an editor. The well-judging were soon pleased with the plain
good sense, the general intelligence, the modesty, and the invariable rectitude of the young
man. Their suffrage gained, that of the rest began to follow. For, in truth, there are few
things of which the light is less to be hid than that of a good newspaper. "The Register,"
by degrees, won a general esteem, and began to prosper. And as, according to the discovery
of Malthus, Prosperity is fond of pairing, it soon happened that our printer went to falling
in love. Naturally again, being a printer, he, from a regard for the eternal fitness of things,
fell in love with an authoress.

This was Miss Winifred Marshall, a young lady of the town of Newark, who to an agreeable person,
good connections, and advantages of education, joined a literary talent that had already won
no little approval. She wrote verse, and published several novels of the "Minerva Press" order,
(such as "Lady Emma Melcombe and her Family," "Matilda Berkley," etc.,) of which only the names
survive.

Despite the poetic adage about the course of true love, that of Joseph Gales ran smooth: Miss
Marshall accepted his suit and they were married. Never were husband and wife better mated.
They lived together most happily and long,--she dying, at an advanced age, only two years before
him. Meantime, she had, from the first, brought him some marriage-portion beyond that which
the Muses are wont to give with their daughters,--namely, laurels and bays; and she bore him
three sons and five daughters, near half of whom the parents survived. Three (Joseph the younger,
Winifred, and Sarah, now Mrs. Seaton) were born in England; a fourth, at the town of Altona,
(near Hamburg,) from which she was named; and the rest in America.

To resume this story in the order of events. Mr. Gales went on with his journal, and when it
had grown quite flourishing, he added to his printing-office the inviting appendage of a book-store,
which also flourished. In the progress of both, it became necessary that he should employ a
clerk. Among the applicants brought to him by an advertisement of what he needed, there presented
himself an unfriended youth, with whose intelligence, modesty, and other signs of the future
man within, he was so pleased that he at once took him into his employment,--at first, merely
to keep his accounts,--but, by degrees, for superior things,--until, progressively, he (the
youth) matured into his assistant editor, his dearest friend, and finally his successor in
the journal. That youth was James Montgomery, the poet.

On the 10th of April, 1786, Mrs. Gales gave birth, at Eckington, their rural home, to her first
child, Joseph, the present chief of the "Intelligencer." [Mr. Gales has since died.] Happy
at home, the young mother could as delightedly look without. The business of her husband throve
apace; nor less the general regard and esteem in which he was personally held. He grew continually
in the confidence and affection of his fellow-citizens; endearing himself especially, by his
sober counsels and his quiet charities, to all that industrious class who knew him as one of
their own, and could look up without reluctance to a superiority which was only the unpretending
one of goodness and sense. Over them, without seeking it, he gradually obtained an extraordinary
ascendancy, of which the following is a single instance. Upon some occasion of wages or want
among the working-people of Sheffield, a great popular commotion had burst out, attended by
a huge mob and riot, which the magistracy strove in vain to appease or quell. When all else
had failed, Mr. Gales bethought him of trying what he could do. Driven into the thick of the
crowd, in an open carriage, he suddenly appeared amongst the rioters, and, by a few plain words
of remonstrance, convinced them that they could only hurt themselves by overturning the laws,
that they should seek other modes of redress, and meantime had all better go home. They agreed
to do so,--but with the condition annexed, that they should first see him home. Whereupon,
loosening the horses from the carriage, they drew him, with loud acclamations, back to his house.

Such were his prospects and position for some seven years after his marriage, when, of a sudden,
without any fault of his own, he was made answerable for a fact that rendered it necessary
for him to flee beyond the realm of Great Britain.

As a friend to Reform, he had, in his journal, at first supported Pitt's ministry, which had
set out on the same principle, but which, when the revolutionary movement in France threatened
to overthrow all government, abandoned all Reform, as a thing not then safe to set about. From
this change of views Mr. Gales dissented, and still advocated Reform. So, again, as to the
French Revolution, not yet arrived at the atrocities which it speedily reached,--he saw no
need of making war upon it. In its outset, he had, along with Fox and other Liberals, applauded
it; for it then professed little but what Liberals wished to see brought about in England.
He still thought it good for France, though not for his own country. Thus, moderate as he was,
he was counted in the Opposition and jealously watched.

It was in the autumn of 1792, while he was gone upon a journey of business, that a King's-messenger,
bearing a Secretary-of-State's warrant for the seizure of Mr. Gales's person, presented himself
at his house. For this proceeding against him the following facts had given occasion. In his
office was employed a printer named Richard Davison,--a very quick, capable, useful man, and
therefore much trusted,--but a little wild, withal, at once with French principles and religion,
with conventicles, and those seditious clubs that were then secretly organized all over the
island. This person corresponded with a central club in London, and had been rash enough to
write them, just then, an insurrectionary letter, setting forth revolutionary plans, the numbers,
the means they could command, the supplies of arms, etc., that they were forming. This sage
epistle was betrayed into the hands of the Government. The discreet Dick they might very well
have hanged; but that was not worth while. From his connection with the "Register," they supposed
him to be only the agent and cover for a deeper man,--its proprietor; and at the latter only,
therefore, had they struck. Nothing saved him from the blow, except the casual fact of his
absence in another country, and their being ignorant of the route he had taken. This his friends
alone knew, and where to reach him. They did so, at once, by a courier secretly despatched;
and he, on learning what awaited him at home, instead of trusting to his innocence, chose rather
to trust the seas; and, making his way to the coast, took the only good security for his freedom,
by putting the German Ocean between him and pursuit. He sailed for Amsterdam, where arriving,
he thence made his way to Hamburg, at which city he had decided that his family should join
him. To England he could return only at the cost of a prosecution; and though this would, of
necessity, end in an acquittal, it was almost sure to be preceded by imprisonment, while, together,
they would half-ruin him. It was plain, then, that he must at once do what he had long intended
to do, go to America.

Accordingly, he gave directions to his family to come to him, and to Montgomery that he should
dispose of all his effects and settle up all his affairs. These offices that devoted friend
performed most faithfully; remitting him the proceeds. The newspaper he himself bought and
continued, under the name of the "Sheffield Iris." Still retaining his affection for the family,
he passed into the household of what was left of them, and supplied to the three sisters of
the elder Joseph Gales the place of a brother, and, wifeless and childless, lived on to a very
advanced age, content with their society alone. The last of these dames died only a few months ago.

At Hamburg, whence they were to take ship for the United States, the family were detained all
the winter by the delicate health of Mrs. Gales. This delay her husband put to profit, by mastering
two things likely to be needful to him,--the German tongue and the art of short-hand. In the
spring, they sailed for Philadelphia. Arrived there, he sought and at once obtained employment
as a printer. It was soon perceived, not only that he was an admirable workman, but every way
a man of unusual merit, and able to turn his hand to almost anything. By-and-by, reporters
of Congressional debates being few and very indifferent, his employer, Claypole, said to him,--"You
seem able to do everything that is wanted: pray, could you not do these Congressional Reports
for us better than this drunken Callender, who gives us so much trouble?" Mr. Gales replied,
with his usual modesty, that he did not know what he could do, but that he would try.

The next day, he attended the sitting of Congress, and brought away, in time for the compositors,
a faithful transcript of such speeches as had been made. Appearing in the next morning's paper,
it of course greatly astonished everybody. It seemed a new era in such things. They had heard
of the like in Parliament, but had scarcely credited it. Claypole himself was the most astonished
of all. Seizing a copy, he ran around the town, showing it to all he met, and still hardly
comprehending the wonder which he himself had instigated. It need hardly be said that here
was something far more profitable for Mr. Gales than type-setting.

But to apply this skill, possessed by none else, to the exclusive advantage of a journal of
his own was yet more inviting; and the opportunity soon offering itself, he became the purchaser
of the "Independent Gazetteer," a paper already established. This he conducted with success
until the year 1799, making both reputation and many friends. Among the warmest of these were
some of the North Carolina members, and especially that one whose name has ever since stood
as a sort of proverb of honesty, Nathaniel Macon. By the representations of these friends,
he was led to believe that their new State capital, Raleigh, where there was only a very decrepit
specimen of journalism, would afford him at once a surer competence and a happier life than
Philadelphia. Coming to this conclusion, he disposed of his newspaper and printing-office,
and removed to Raleigh, where he at once established the "Register." Of his late paper, the
"Gazetteer," we shall soon follow the fortunes to Washington, where it became the "Intelligencer":
meantime, we must finish what is left to tell of his own.

At Raleigh he arrived under auspices which gave him not only a reputation, but friends, to
set out with. Both he soon confirmed and augmented. By the constant merit of his journal, its
sober sense, its moderation, and its integrity, he won and invariably maintained the confidence
of all on that side of politics with which he concurred, (the old Republican,) and scarcely
less conciliated the respect of his opponents. He quickly obtained, for his skill, and not
merely as a partisan reward, the public printing of his State, and retained it until, reaching
the ordinary limit of human life, he withdrew from the press. In the just and kindly old commonwealth
which he so long served, it would have been hard for any party, no matter how much in the ascendant,
to move anything for his injury. For the love and esteem which he had the faculty of attracting
from the first deepened, as he advanced in age, into an absolute reverence the most general
for his character and person; and the good North State honored and cherished no son of her
own loins more than she did Joseph Gales. In Raleigh, there was no figure that, as it passed,
was greeted so much by the signs of a peculiar veneration as that great, stalwart one of his,
looking so plain and unaffected, yet with a sort of nobleness in its very simplicity, a gentleness
in its strength, an inborn goodness and courtesy in all its roughness of frame,--his countenance
mild and calm, yet commanding, thoughtful, yet pleasant and betokening a bosom that no low
thought had ever entered. You had in him, indeed, the highest image of that stanch old order
from which he was sprung, and might have said, "Here's the soul of a baron in the body of a
peasant." For he really looked, when well examined, like all the virtues done in roughcast.

With him the age of necessary and of well-merited repose had now come; and judging that he
could attain it only by quitting that habitual scene of business where it would still solicit
him, he transferred his newspaper, his printing-office, and the bookstore which he had made
their adjunct in Raleigh, as in Sheffield, to his third son, Weston; and removed to Washington,
in order to pass the close of his days near two of the dearest of his children,--his son Joseph
and his daughter Mrs. Seaton,--from whom he had been separated the most.

In renouncing all individual aims, Mr. Gales fell not into a mere life of meditation, but sought
its future pleasures in the adoption of a scheme of benevolence, to the calm prosecution of
which he might dedicate his declining powers, so long as his advanced age should permit. A
worthy object for such efforts he recognized in the plan of African colonization, and of its
affairs he accepted and almost to his death sustained the management in chief; achieving not
less, by his admirable judgment, the warm approval and thanks of that wide-spread association,
than, by the most amiable virtues of private life, winning in Washington, as he had done everywhere
else, from all that approached him, a singular degree of deference and affection.

But the close of this long career of honor and of usefulness was now at hand. In 1839, he lost
the wife whose tenderness had cheered the labors and whose gay intelligence had brightened
the leisure of his existence. She had lived the delight of that intimate society to which she
had confined faculties that would have adorned any circle whatever; and she died lamented in
proportion by it, and by the only others to whom she was much known,--the poor. Her husband
survived her but two years,--expiring at his son's house in Raleigh, where he was on a visit,
in April, 1841, at the age of eighty. He died as calm as a child, in the placid faith of a
true Christian.

Still telling his story in the order of dates, the writer would now turn to the younger Joseph
Gales. As we have seen, he arrived in this country when seven years old, and went to Raleigh
about six years afterwards. There he was placed in a school, where he made excellent progress,--profiting
by the recollection of his earlier lessons, received from that best of all elementary teachers,
a mother of well-cultivated mind. His boyhood, as usual, prefigured the mature man: it was
diligent in study, hilarious at play; his mind bent upon solid things, not the showy. For all
good, just, generous, and kindly things he had the warmest impulse and the truest perceptions.
Quick to learn and to feel, he was slow only of resentment. Never was man born with more of
those lacteals of the heart which secrete the milk of human kindness. Of the classic tongues,
he can be said to have learnt only the Latin: the Greek was then little taught in any part
of our country. For the Positive Sciences he had much inclination; since it is told, among
other things, that he constructed instruments for himself, such as an electrical machine, with
the performances of which he much amazed the people of Raleigh. Meantime he was forming at
home, under the good guidance there, a solid knowledge of all those fine old authors whose
works make the undegenerate literature of our language and then constituted what they called
Polite Letters. With these went hand in hand, at that time, in the academies of the South,
a profane amusement of the taste. In short, our sinful youth were fond of stage-plays, and
even wickedly enacted them, instead of resorting to singing-schools. Joseph Gales the younger
had his boyish emulation of Roscius and Garrick, and performed "top parts" in a diversity of
those sad comedies and merry tragedies which boys are apt to make, when they get into buskins.
But it must be said, that, as a theatric star, he presently waxed dim before a very handsome
youth, a little his senior, who just then had entered his father's office. He was not only
a printer, but had already been twice an editor,--last, in the late North Carolina capital,
Halifax,--previously, in the great town of Petersburg,--and was bred in what seemed to Raleigh
a mighty city, Richmond; in addition to all which strong points of reputation, he came of an
F.F.V., and had been taught by the celebrated Ogilvie, of whom more anon. He was familiar with
theatres, and had not only seen, but even criticized the great actors. He outshone his very
brother-in-law and colleague that was to be. For this young gentleman was William Seaton.

Meantime, Joseph, too, had learnt the paternal art,--how well will appear from a single fact.
About this time, his father's office was destroyed by fire, and with it the unfinished printing
of the Legislative Journals and Acts of the year. Time did not allow waiting for new material
from Philadelphia. Just in this strait, he that had of old been so inauspicious, Dick Davison,
came once more into play,--but, this time, not as a marplot. He, strange to say, was at hand
and helpful. For, after his political exploit, abandoning England in disgust at the consequences
of his Gunpowder Plot, he, too, had not only come to America, but had chanced to set up his
"type-stick" in the neighboring town of Warrenton, where, having flourished, he was now the
master of a printing-office and the conductor of a newspaper. Thither, then, young Joseph was
despatched, "copy" in hand. Richard--really a worthy man, after all--gladly atoned for his
ancient hurtfulness, by lending his type and presses; and, falling to work with great vigor,
our young Faust, with his own hands, put into type and printed off the needful edition of the Laws.

He had also, by this time, as an important instrument of his intended profession, attained
the art of stenography. When, soon after, he began to employ it, he rapidly became an excellent
reporter; and eventually, when he had grown thoroughly versed in public affairs, confessedly
the best reporter that we ever had.

He was now well-prepared to join in the manly strife of business or politics. His father chose,
therefore, at once to commit him to himself. He judged him mature enough in principles, strong
enough in sense; and feared lest, by being kept too long under guidance and the easy life of
home, he should fall into inertness. He first sent him to Philadelphia, therefore, to serve
as a workman with Birch and Small; after which, he made for him an engagement on the "National
Intelligencer," as a reporter, and sent him to Washington, in October, 1807.

To that place, changing its name to the one just mentioned, the father's former paper, "The
Gazetteer," had been transferred by his old associate, Samuel Harrison Smith. Its first issue
there (tri-weekly) was on the 31st of October, 1800, under the double title of "The National
Intelligencer and Washington Advertiser." The latter half of the title seems to have been dropped
in 1810, when its present senior came, for a time, into its sole proprietorship.

More than twice the age of any other journal now extant there,--for the "Globe" came some thirty,
the "Union" some forty-five years later,--the "Intelligencer" has long stood, in every worthy
sense, the patriarch of our metropolitan press. It has witnessed the rise and fall around it
of full a hundred competitors,--many of them declared enemies; not a few, what was more dangerous
far, professed friends. Yet, in the face of all enmity and of such friendship, it has ever
held on its calm way, never deserting the public cause,--as little extreme in its opposition
as in its support of those in power; so that its foes never forgot it, when they prevailed,
but its friends repeatedly. To estimate the value of its influence, during its long career,
would be impossible,--so much of right has it brought about, so much of wrong defeated.

Though it came hither with our Congress, a newspaper had once before been set up here,--either
upon the expectation created by the laying of certain corner-stones, in 1792, that the Government
would fix itself at this spot, or through an odd local faith in the dreams of some ancient
visionary dwelling hard by, who had, many years before, foretold this as the destined site
of a great imperial city, a second Rome, and so had bestowed upon Goose Creek the name of Tiber,
long before this was Washington. The founder of this Pre-Adamite journal was Mr. Benjamin Moore;
its name, "The Washington Gazette"; its issue, semi-weekly; its annual price, four dollars;
and the two leading principles which, in that day of the infancy of political "platforms,"
his salutatory announced, were, first, "to obtain a living for himself," and, secondly, "to
amuse and inform his fellow-mortals." How long this day-star of our journalism shone, before
night again swallowed up the premature dawn, cannot now be stated. It must have been published
at what was then expected to be our city, but is our penitentiary, Greenleaf's Point.

To the "Intelligencer" young Mr. Gales brought such vigor, such talent, and such skill in every
department, that within two years, in 1809, he was admitted by Mr. Smith into partnership;
within less than a year from which date, that gentleman, grown weary of the laborious life
of the press, was content to withdraw and leave him sole proprietor, editor, and reporter.
An enormous worker, however, it mattered little to him what tasks were to be assumed: he could
multiply himself among them, and suffice for all.

In thus assuming the undivided charge of the paper, the young editor thought it becoming to
set forth one main principle, that has, beyond a question, been admirably the guide of his
public life: he said to his readers,--"It is the dearest right, and ought to be cherished as
the proudest prerogative of a freeman, to be guided by the unbiassed convictions of his own
judgment. This right it is my firm purpose to maintain, and to preserve inviolate the independence
of the print now committed into my hands." Never was pledge more universally made or more rarely
kept than this.

It was towards the close of Mr. Jefferson's Presidency that Mr. Gales had entered the office
of the "Intelligencer"; and it was during Mr. Madison's first year that he became joint-editor
of that paper. Of these Administrations it had been the supporter,--only following, in that
regard, the transmitted politics of its original, the "Gazetteer," derived from the elder Mr.
Gales. Bred in these, the son had learnt them of his sire, just as he had adopted his religion
or his morals. Sprung from one who had been persecuted in England as a Republican, it was natural
that the son should love the faith for which an honored parent had suffered.

The high qualities and the strong abilities of the young editor did not fail to strike the
discerning eye of President Madison, who speedily gave him his affection and confidence. To
that Administration the "Intelligencer" stood in the most intimate and faithful relations,--sustaining
its policy as a necessity, where it might not have been a choice. During the entire course
of the war, the "Intelligencer" sustained most vigorously all the measures needful for carrying
it on with efficiency; and it did equally good service in reanimating, whenever it had slackened
at any disaster, the drooping spirit of our people. Nor did its editors, when there were two,
stop at these proofs of sincerity, nor slink, when danger drew near, from that hazard of their
own persons to which they had stirred up the country. When invasion came, they at once took
to arms, as volunteer common-soldiers, went to meet the enemy, and remained in the field until
he had fallen back to the coast. And during the invasion of Washington, moreover, their establishment
was attacked and partially destroyed, through an unmanly spirit of revenge on the part of the
British forces. In October, 1812, proposing to himself the change of his paper into a daily
one, as was accordingly brought about on the first of January ensuing, Mr. Gales invited Mr.
Seaton, who had by this time become his brother-in-law, to come and join him. He did so; and
the early tie of youthful friendship, which had grown between them at Raleigh, and which the
new relation had drawn still closer, gradually matured into that more than friendship or brotherhood,
that oneness and identity of all purposes, opinions, and interests which has ever since existed
between them, without a moment's interruption, and has long been, to those who understood it,
a rare spectacle of that concord and affection so seldom witnessed, and could never have come
about except between men of singular virtues.

The same year that brought Gales and Seaton together as partners in business witnessed an alliance
of a more interesting character; for it was in 1813 that Mr. Gales married the accomplished
daughter of Theodorick Lee, younger brother of that brilliant soldier of the Revolution, the
"Legionary Harry."

But, at this natural point, the writer must go back for a while, in order to bring down the
story of William Seaton to where, uniting with his associate's, the two thus flow on in a single
stream.

He was born January 11th, 1785, on the paternal estate in King William County, Virginia, one
of a family of four sons and three daughters. At the good old mansion passed his childhood.
There, too, according to what was then the wont in Virginia, he trod the first steps of learning,
under the guidance of a domestic tutor, a decayed gentleman, old and bedridden; for the only
part left him of a genteel inheritance was the gout. But when it became necessary to send his
riper progeny abroad, for more advanced studies, Mr. Seaton very justly bethought him of going
along with them; and so betook himself, with his whole family, to Richmond, where he was the
possessor of houses enough to afford him a good habitation and a genteel income. Here, then,
along with his brothers and sisters, William was taught, through an ascending series of schools,
until, at last, he arrived at what was the wonder of that day,--the academy of Ogilvie, the
Scotchman. He, be it noted, had an earldom, (that of Finlater,) which slept while its heir
was playing pedagogue in America: a strange mixture of the ancient rhapsodist with the modern
strolling actor, of the lord with him who lives by his wits. Scot as he was, he was better
fitted to teach anything rather than common sense. The writer must not give the idea, however,
that there was in Lord Ogilvie anything but eccentricity to derogate from the honors of either
his lineage or his learning. A very solid teacher he was not. A great enthusiast by nature,
and a master of the whole art of discoursing finely of even those things which he knew not
well, he dazzled much, pleased greatly, and obtained a high reputation; so that, if he did
not regularly inform or discipline the minds of his pupils, he probably made them, to an unusual
degree, amends on another side: he infused into them, by the glitter of his accomplishments,
a high admiration for learning and for letters. Certainly, the number of his scholars that
arrived at distinction was remarkable; and this is, of course, a fact conclusive of great merit
of some sort as a teacher, where, as in his case, the pupils were not many. Without pausing
to mention others of them who arrived at honor, it may be well enough to refer to Winfield
Scott, William Campbell Preston, B. Watkins Leigh, William S. Archer, and William C. Rives.

The writer does not know if it had ever been designed that young Seaton should proceed from
Ogilvie's classes to the more systematic courses of a college. Possibly not. Even among the
wealthy, at that time, home-education was often employed. The children of both sexes were committed
to the care of private tutors, usually young Scotchmen, the graduates of Glasgow, Edinburgh,
or Aberdeen, sent over to the planter, upon order, along with his yearly supply of goods, by
his merchant abroad. Or else the sons were sent to select private schools, like that of Ogilvie,
set up by men of such abilities and scholarship as were supposed capable of performing the
whole work of institutions.

At any rate, our youth, without further preparation, at about the age of eighteen, entered
earnestly upon the duties of life. He fell at once into his vocation,--impelled to it, no doubt,
by the ambition for letters and public affairs which the lessons of Ogilvie usually produced.
Party ran high. Virginia politics, flushed with recent success, had added to the usual passions
of the contest those of victory.

Into the novelties of the day our student accordingly plunged, in common with nearly all others
of a like age and condition. He became, in short, a politician. Though talent of every other
sort abounded, that of writing promptly and pleasingly did not. Young Seaton was found to possess
this, and therefore soon obtained leave to exercise it as assistant-editor of one of the Richmond
journals. He had already made himself acquainted with the art of printing, in an office where
he became the companion and friend of the late Thomas Ritchie, and it is more than probable
that many of his youthful "editorials" were "set up" by his own hands. Attaining by degrees
a youthful reputation, he received an invitation to take the sole charge of a respectable paper
in Petersburg, "The Republican," the editor and proprietor of which, Mr. Thomas Field, was
about to leave the country for some months. Acquitting himself here with great approval, he
won an invitation to a still better position,--that of the proprietary editorship of the "North
Carolina Journal," published at Halifax, the former capital of that State, and the only newspaper
there. He accepted the offer, and became the master of his own independent journal. Of its
being so he proceeded at once to give his patrons a somewhat decisive token. They were chiefly
Federalists; it was a region strongly Federal; and the gazette itself had always maintained
the purest Federalism: but he forthwith changed its politics to Republican.

There can be no doubt that he who made a change so manly conducted his paper with spirit. Yet
he must have done it also with that wise and winning moderation and fairness which have since
distinguished him and his associate. William Seaton could never have fallen into anything of
the temper or the taste, the morals or the manners, which are now so widely the shame of the
American press; he could never have written in the ill spirit of mere party, so as to wound
or even offend the good men of an opposite way of thinking. The inference is a sure one from
his character, and is confirmed by what we know to have happened during his editorial career
among the Federalists of Halifax. Instead of his paper's losing ground under the circumstances
just mentioned, it really gained so largely and won so much the esteem of both sides, that,
when he desired to dispose of it, in order to seek a higher theatre, he easily sold the property
for double what it had cost him.

It was now that he made his way to Raleigh, the new State-capital, and became connected with
the "Register." Nor was it long before this connection was drawn yet closer by his happy marriage
with the lady whose virtues and accomplishments have so long been the modest, yet shining ornament
and charm of his household and of the society of Washington. After this union, he continued
his previous relationship with the "Register," until, as already mentioned, he came to the
metropolis to join all his fortunes with those of his brother-in-law. From this point, of course,
their stories, like their lives, become united, and merge, with a rare concord, into one. They
have had no bickerings, no misunderstanding, no difference of view which a consultation did
not at once reconcile; they have never known a division of interests; from their common coffer
each has always drawn whatever he chose; and, down to this day, there has never been a settlement
of accounts between them. What facts could better attest not merely a singular harmony of character,
but an admirable conformity of virtues?

The history of the "Intelligencer" has, as to all its leading particulars, been for fifty years
spread before thousands of readers, in its continuous diary. To re-chronicle any part of what
is so well known would be idle in the extreme. Of the editors personally, their lives, since
they became mature and settled, have presented few events such as are not common to all men,--little
of vicissitude, beyond that of pockets now full and now empty,--nothing but a steady performance
of duty, an exertion, whenever necessary, of high ability, and the gradual accumulation through
these of a deeply felt esteem among all the best and wisest of the land. Amidst the many popular
passions with which nearly all have, in our country, run wild, they have maintained a perpetual
and sage moderation; amidst incessant variations of doctrine, they have preserved a memory
and a conscience; in the frequent fluctuations of power, they have steadily checked the alternate
excesses of both parties; and they have never given to either a factious opposition or a merely
partisan support. Of their journal it may be said, that there has, in all our times, shone
no such continual light on public affairs, there has stood no such sure defence of whatever
was needful to be upheld. Tempering the heats of both sides,--re-nationalizing all spirit of
section,--combating our propensity to lawlessness at home and aggression abroad,--spreading
constantly on each question of the day a mass of sound information,--the venerable editors
have been, all the while, a power and a safety in the land, no matter who were the rulers.
Neither party could have spared an opposition so just or a support so well-measured. Thus it
cannot be deemed an American exaggeration to declare the opinion as to the influence of the
"Intelligencer" over our public counsels, that its value is not easily to be overrated.

Never, meantime, was authority wielded with less assumption. The "Intelligencer" could not,
of course, help being aware of the weight which its opinions always carried among the thinking;
but it has never betrayed any consciousness of its influence, unless in a ceaseless care to
deserve respect. Its modesty and candor, its fairness and courtesy have been invariable; nor
less so, its observance of that decorum and those charities which constitute the very grace
of all public life.

From the time of their coming together, down to the year 1820, Gales and Seaton were the exclusive
reporters, as well as editors, of their journal,--one of them devoting himself to the Senate,
and the other to the House of Representatives. Generally speaking, they published only running
reports,--on special occasions, however, giving the speeches and proceedings entire. In those
days they had seats of honor assigned to them directly by the side of the presiding officers,
and over the snuff-box, in a quiet and familiar manner, the topics of the day were often discussed.
To the privileges they then enjoyed, but more especially to their sagacity and industry, are
we now indebted, as a country, for their "Register of Debates," which, with the "Intelligencer,"
has become a most important part of our national history. As in their journal nearly all the
most eminent of American statesmen have discussed the affairs of the country, so have they
been the direct means of preserving many of the speeches which are now the acknowledged ornaments
of our political literature. Had it not been for Mr. Gales, the great intellectual combat between
Hayne and Webster, for example, would have passed into a vague tradition, perhaps. The original
notes of Mr. Webster's speech, now in Mr. Gales's library, form a volume of several hundred
pages, and, having been corrected and interlined by the statesman's own hand, present a treasure
that might be envied. At the period just alluded to, Mr. Gales had given up the practice of
reporting any speeches, and it was a mere accident that led him to pay Mr. Webster the compliment
in question. That it was appreciated was proved by many reciprocal acts of kindness and the
long and happy intimacy that existed between the two gentlemen, ending only with the life of
the statesman. It was Mr. Webster's opinion, that the abilities of Mr. Gales were of the highest
order; and yet the writer has heard of one instance in which even the editor could not get
along without a helping hand. Mr. Gales had for some days been engaged upon the Grand Jury,
and, with his head full of technicalities, entered upon the duty of preparing a certain editorial.
In doing this, he unconsciously employed a number of legal phrases; and when about half through,
found it necessary to come to a halt. At this juncture, he dropped a note to Mr. Webster, transmitting
the unfinished article and explaining his difficulty. Mr. Webster took it in hand, finished
it to the satisfaction of Mr. Gales, and it was published as editorial.

But the writer is trespassing upon private ground, and it is with great reluctance that he
refrains from recording a long list of incidents which have come to his knowledge, calculated
to illustrate the manifold virtues of his distinguished friends. That they are universally
respected and beloved by those who know them,--that their opinions on public matters have been
solicited by Secretaries of State and even by Presidents opposed to them in politics,--that
their journal has done more than any other in the country to promote a healthy tone in polite
literature,--that their home-life has been made happy by the influences of refinement and taste,--and
that they have given away to the poor money enough almost to build a city, and to the unfortunate
spoken kind words enough to fill a library, are all assertions which none can truthfully deny.
If, therefore, to look back upon a long life not uselessly spent is what will give us peace
at last, then will the evening of their days be all that they could desire; and their "silver
hairs," the most appropriate crown of true patriotism,

  "Will purchase them a good opinion,
  And buy men's voices to commend their deeds."

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNET.

WRITTEN AFTER A VIOLENT THUNDER-STORM IN THE COUNTRY.

  An hour agone, and prostrate Nature lay,
  Like some sore-smitten creature, nigh to death,
  With feverish, pallid lips, with laboring breath,
  And languid eyeballs darkening to the day;
  A burning noontide ruled with merciless sway
  Earth, wave, and air; the ghastly-stretching heath,
  The sullen trees, the fainting flowers beneath,
  Drooped hopeless, shrivelling in the torrid ray:
  When, sudden, like a cheerful trumpet blown
  Far off by rescuing spirits, rose the wind,
  Urging great hosts of clouds; the thunder's tone
  Swells into wrath, the rainy cataracts fall,--
  But pausing soon, behold creation shrined
  In a new birth, God's covenant clasping all!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROFESSOR'S STORY.

These are things parents can see, and which they must take account of in education, but which
few except parents can be expected to really understand. Seven-'n'-twenty,--no, six-'n'-twenty,--Born
the same year we buried aour little Anny Marí.

      *       *       *       *       *

THE ELECTION IN NOVEMBER.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

History of Flemish Literature. By OCTAVE DELEPIERRE, LL. D. 8vo. London. John Murray. 1860.

"When I write in Danish," says Oehlenschläger, "I write for only six hundred persons." And
so, in view of this somewhat exaggerated statement, he himself translated his best works into
the more favored and more widely spread Germanic idiom. It requires a certain amount of courage
in an author to write in his own native tongue only, when he knows that he thereby limits the
number of his readers. We see in our own days, among the Sclavonic races, men whose writings
breathe the most ardent patriotism, whose labors and researches are all concentrated within
the sphere of their nationality, publishing, not in their own Polish, Czechish, or Serbian,
but in German or French.

The history of language shows us a two-fold tendency,--one of divergence from some common stem,
followed by one of concentration, of unity, in the literature. Thus, in France, the Langue
d'Oïl superseded the richer and more melodious Provençal; in Spain the Castilian predominated;
while for several centuries it has been the steady tendency of the High-German to become the
language of letters and of the upper classes among the various Teutonic races. Since the Bible-translation
of Luther, this central dialect has not only become the medium in which poet and philosopher,
historian and critic address the nation, but it may be said to have entirely superseded the
Northern and Southern forms. Whatever local or linguistic interest may be manifested for the
works of Groth in the Ditmarsch Platt-Deutsch, or for the sweet Alemannic songs of Hebel, the
centralizing tongue is that in which Schiller and Goethe wrote.

The allied Danish and Dutch have escaped this ingulfing process. The former, instead of retreating,
seeks in the present to enlarge its circuit; and great are the complaints in Schleswig-Holstein
of the arbitrary and despotic imposition of Danish on a State of the German Confederation.
The present government of Holland has not remained inactive. Much has been done to encourage
men of letters and counteract the Gallic influences which prevailed in the early part of the
century.

But the Flemings speaking nearly the same language as their Protestant neighbors, where is
their literature now? The language itself, in which are handed down to us some of the masterpieces
of the Middle Ages, as "Reynard the Fox" and "Gudrun," is disregarded, even discountenanced,
by Government. It is with a feeling of sadness that we read the annals of a literature which
met so many obstacles to its progress. Despised by foreign rulers, thrust back by the Spanish
policy of the Duke of Alva, its authors exiled and seeking refuge in other lands, its very
existence has been a constant battling against the inroads of more powerful neighbors.

Surely, "if words be made of breath, and breath of life," there is nothing a nation can hold
more dear than its own tongue. Its laws, its rulers, may change, its privileges and charters
be wrenched from it, but that remains as an heirloom, the first gift to the child, the last
and dearest treasure of the man. Perhaps nowhere more than in Flanders do we meet with a systematic
oppression of a vernacular idiom. From the days of the contests with France, through the long
Spanish troubles and dominion, the military occupation of the country by the troops of Louis
XIV., the Austrian rule, the levelling tendency of the French Revolution, and the present aping
of French manners by the higher powers of the land,--through all this there has been but one
long, continuous struggle, and the ultimate result is now too plain.

We find the Flemish spoken by nearly two-thirds of the inhabitants of Belgium, divided from
the Walloon or Rouchi-Fran ais by a line of demarcation running from the Meuse through Liege
and Waterloo, and ending in France, between Calais and Dunkirk. It differs in no material points
from the Dutch, being essentially the same, if we except slight differences in spelling, as
ae for aa, ue for uu, y for ij. Both should bear but one common name, the Netherlandish. That
differences should be sought can be accounted for only by the petty feeling of jealousy that
exists between the neighboring states, their literary productions varying in grammatical construction
scarcely more than the writings of English and American authors.

Mr. Octave Delepierre, who since 1830 has published some ten or twelve monographs relating
to the antiquities and history of Flanders, has presented the English public during the course
of the present year with a history of Flemish literature. With an evident predilection for
authors south of the Meuse, Mr. Delepierre has nevertheless given us the first clear and connected
account we possess of the history of letters in the Netherlands. Without careful or minute
critical research, he has shown little that is new, nor has he sought to clear one point that
was obscure. His work is pleasant reading, interspersed with occasional translations, though
scarcely answering the requisites of literary history in the nineteenth century. Having followed
the older work of Snellaert [Histoire de la Littérature Flamande. Bruxelles. 1654.], in the
latter half of the volume, page for page, he has not even mentioned by name the authors of
the last quarter of a century.

Let us glance at that portion of literature more particularly belonging to Flanders and Brabant.

The first expressions of the Germanic mind, the song of "Hildebrand," "Gudrun," the "Nibelungen,"
have been handed down to us in a form which shows their origin to have been Netherlandish.
The first part of "Gudrun" is evidently so; and we find, as well in many of the older poems
of chivalry, as "Charles and Elegast," "Floris and Blanchefloer," as in the national epos,
intrinsic proofs that the unknown authors were from the regions of the Lower Rhine. These elder
remnants, however, can scarcely be claimed by any one of the Teutonic races, as they are the
common property of all; for we find the hero Siegfried in the Scandinavian Saga, as well as
in the more southern tradition. Mr. Delepierre has translated the following song, almost Homeric
in its form, which belongs to this early period, when Christianity had not obliterated the
memories of barbarous days:--

  "The Lord Halewyn knew a song: all those
  who heard it were attracted towards him.

  "It was once heard by the daughter of the
  King, who was so beloved by her parents.

  "She stood before her father: 'O father,
  may I go to the Lord Halewyn?'

  "'Oh, no, my child, no! They who go to
  him never come back again.'

  "She stood before her mother: 'O mother,
  may I go to the Lord Halewyn?'

  "'Oh, no, my child, no! They who go to
  him never come back again.'

  "She stood before her sister: 'O sister, may
  I go to the Lord Halewyn?'

  "'Oh, no, sister, no! They who go to him
  never come back again.'

  "She stood before her brother: 'O brother,
  may I go to the Lord Halewyn?'

  "'Little care I where thou goest, provided
  thou preservest thine honor and thy crown.

  "She goes up into her chamber; she clothes
  herself in her best garments.

  "What does she put on first? A shift finer
  than silk.

  "What does she gird round her lovely
  waist? Strong bands of gold.

  "What does she put upon her scarlet petticoat?
  On every seam a golden button.

  "What does she set on her beautiful fair
  hair? A massive golden crown.

  "What does she put upon her kirtle? On
  every seam a pearl.

  "She goes into her father's stable, and takes
  out his best charger. She mounts him proudly,
  and so, laughing and singing, rides through
  the forest. When she reaches the middle of
  the forest, she meets the Lord Halewyn.

  "'Hail!' said he, approaching her, 'hail,
  beautiful virgin, with eyes so black and brilliant!'

  "They proceed together, chatting as they go.

  "They arrive at a field in which stands a
  gallows. The bodies of several women hang
  from it.

  "The Lord Halewyn says to her: 'As you
  are the loveliest of all virgins, say, how will
  you die? The time is come.'

  "'It is well: as I may choose, I choose the
  sword.

  "'But, first of all, take off your tunic; for
  the blood of a virgin gushes out so far, that it
  might reach you, and I should be sorry.'

  "But before he had divested himself of his
  tunic, his head rolled off and lay at his feet:
  his lips still murmured these words:

  "'Go down there into that corn-field, and blow
  the horn, so that my friends may hear it.'

  "'Into that corn-field I shall not go, neither
  shall I blow the horn. I do not follow the counsel
  of a murderer.'

  "'Go, then, down under the gallows, and
  gather the balm which you shall find there,
  and spread it over my bloody throat.'

  "'Under the gallows I shall not go; on your
  bloody throat I shall spread no balm. I do
  not follow the counsel of a murderer.'

  "She took up the head by the hair, and
  washed it at a clear fountain.

  "She mounted her charger proudly, and,
  laughing and singing, she rode through the
  forest.

  "When she reached the middle of the forest,
  she met the mother of Halewyn. 'Beautiful
  virgin, have you not seen my son?'

  "'Your son, the Lord Halewyn, is gone
  hunting: you will never see him again.

  "'Your son, the Lord Halewyn, is dead. I
  have his head in my apron, which is red with
  his blood.'

  "And when she arrived at her father's gate,
  she blew the horn like a man.

  "And when her father saw her, he rejoiced
  at her return.

  "He celebrated it by a feast, and the head
  of Halewyn was placed on the table."

Flemish writers claim as entirely their own that epic of the people, "Reynard the Fox." Their
right to it was long contested; nor has anything been done since the labors of Willems, who,
in opposition to the opinion of William Grimm, settles the authorship of the "Reinaert de Vos"
on Utenhove, a priest of Aerdenburg. It seems natural to suppose that this most popular of
Middle-Age productions should have originated in the very region which later gave to the world
a school of painting that incarnated on canvas the phases of animal life, taking its delight
and best inspirations in the burlesque side of human passions.

In its first period, Flemish literature found some encouragement from its princes. John I.
of Brabant fostered it, and even took, himself, the title of Flemish Troubadour. Under Guy
of Dampierre, who neither in heart nor mind was sympathetic with the people he ruled, we find
Maerlant, still revered by his country; his name is ever coupled with the epithet of Father
of Flemish Poets. Didactic rather than poetical, his influence was great in breaking down the
barriers which separated the people from the higher classes, by adapting to their own home-idiom
the best productions of the age. About this period we find prevalent those Northern singers
corresponding to the Trouvères, Troubadours, and Jongleurs. They are in Flanders the Spreker,
Segger, and Vinder, who, when travelling through the country, took the name of Gezel, received
in town or village, court or hamlet, as the wandering minstrel of the South. The golden age
when sovereigns doffed their royal robes to lay them on the shoulders of some sweet-singing
poet, as the old chronicles tell us, was of short duration in the North, if ever the Sproken
or erotic poems may be said to have brought their authors into such favor. On the other hand,
we find some of the wanderers arrested for theft and other crimes.

Little light has been thrown on their first ante-historical attempts. Until the late labors
of German philologers, little had been done to clear up the confusion resting on this period
of literary history. As yet the field has scarcely been explored beyond the regions not immediately
connected with the literature of Germany. We have long historical poems of little interest,
arranged without order,--interminable productions of thousands and ten thousands of lines of
uncertain date, didactic and encyclopedia-like, besides unmistakable remnants of a Netherlandish
theatre.

The battle of Roosebeke, where the second Artevelde and his companions succumbed to superior
numbers, was the last great enterprise of the Flemings against the French. Half a century earlier,
a strong league had been formed against these powerful neighbors. In the interior, the country
was divided into factions,--the partisans and enemies of France. Prominent were the Clauwaerts
and the Leliarts, from the lion's claw and the fleur-de-lis which they respectively wore on
their badges. The country, which has ever been one of the battle-fields of Europe, was abandoned
to all the horrors of civil war. The Duke of Brabant was childless. The Count of Flanders gave
his daughter, his only legitimate child, in marriage to the Duke of Burgundy; and the provinces
soon came into the hands of those ambitious and restless enemies of the Court of France. It
may easily be imagined that these events were not without their influence on a language deteriorated
on the one hand by constant contact with a Romanic idiom, and in Holland by the transmission
of the sovereign crown to the House of Avesnes.

The "Chambers of Rhetoric," an institution peculiar to the Low Countries, reached their highest
point of prosperity under the Burgundian rule. The wandering life of poets and authors had
nearly ceased. The Gezellen, settled in towns, and moved by the prevalent spirit which prompted
men of one calling to unite into bodies, naturally fell into corporations analogous to the
Guilds. Without attaching any very definite or clear idea to the term Rhetoric which they employed,
these associations exerted great influence upon the whole literature of the Netherlands. Many
would date their origin as far back as the early part of the twelfth century. In Alost, the
Catherinists claimed to have existed as early as 1107, on the mere strength of their motto,
AMOR VINCIT. At any rate, we are left entirely to conjecture with regard to the first beginnings
of these literary guilds, which seem in many respects an imitation of the poetical societies
of Provence. Every poet of note was a participant in them. In Flanders there was scarcely a
town or village that did not possess its Chamber. Brabant, Holland, Zealand soon followed in
the movement. One of the principal, the Fountain of Ghent, seems to have exercised a certain
supremacy over the other confraternities of art.

The proceedings of these companies, protected at first by princes, were carried on with great
magnificence. They were in constant communication with each other throughout the country. Their
facteurs or poets composed songs and theatrical pieces, which were performed by the members.
They had a long array of officers, with princely names; and none was complete without a jester.
Their larger assemblies were accompanied with long festivities, the solemn entry into a town
or village being styled Landjuweel (Landjewel). The nobility mingled in them, incited by the
example of Henry IV. of Brabant or Philippe-le-Bel. The wealth of the Netherlands was displayed
on these solemnities, and the citizens rivalled their monarchs in magnificence. The burghers
of Ghent and Bruges and Antwerp shone, on these occasions, in the gaudy pomp of princely patricians.
All were invited to take part and dispute the prizes awarded by fair hands.

It can scarcely be expected that these guilds, composed in many cases of mechanics, should
give rise to works of the highest order of merit. Their dramatic representations were rather
gorgeous than tasteful, their attempts at wit little better than buffoonery, their humor mere
personal vituperation. Yet even in matters of taste they are not much inferior to the then
more pretentious academies of other lands. It was an age of long religious dramas, of tortured
rhymes and impossible metres, when strange and new versification imported from France found
favor among a people whose silks and linens and rich tapestries were destined to reach a wider
circulation than all the poetical effusions of their guilds, the "Lily," the "Violet," and
the "Jesus with the Balsam Flower."

It was Philip the Fair who, wishing to centralize the scattered efforts of these societies,
established at Malines, in 1493, a sovereign chamber, of which he appointed his chaplain, Pierre
Aelters, sovereign prince. With an admixture of religion, in accordance with the spirit of
the Middle Ages, the sacred number was fifteen. There were fifteen members. Fifteen young girls
were to form part of it, in honor of the fifteen joys of Mary. Fifteen youths were instructed
in the art of rhetoric, and the assemblies were held fifteen times a year. Charles V. was the
last chief of this assembly, which had previously been removed to Ghent. In 1577 it greeted
the arrival of the Prince of Orange, but this was its last sign of vitality.

The Chambers of Rhetoric reached their climax in a time of fermentation. The impatience, the
feeling of uneasiness and restraint, is felt in the drama of these days, which was wholly under
the control of the Chambers. The stage, that "mirror of the times," is often the first manifestation
of the unquiet heaving and subsequent up-bubbling in the fluid compost of the mass that constitutes
a nation. When freely developed, it is the pulse-beat of the people. And so, throughout the
Netherlands, at the end of the fifteenth century and the beginning of the sixteenth, we find
the allegorical drama giving way to more definite and direct personations. Those cold representations
of vices and virtues, of vice in its nakedness, such as to render the reading, when not absolutely
tedious, distasteful, to say the least, to our modern ideas,--all such aimless productions
were giving way to the conscious expression of satire. Diatribes against prevalent abuses,
personal invectives scarcely veiled, were fast becoming the order of the day. It is no wonder,
then, that the guilds, which had found favor formerly, should gradually be crushed, in proportion
as the rulers sought to check the spirit of reform. Among the authors of this period may be
mentioned Everaert and Machet. The refrain was much cultivated, and not, like the drama, for
the expression of dissatisfaction. Anna Byns, an oracle with the Catholic party, wrote when
the language was in its most degenerate state, under Margaret of Austria. She was styled the
Sappho of Brabant, though her poems are all religious. They were translated into Latin, and
were read as masterpieces till the middle of the last century.

A taste for religious writing prevailed in the Netherlands throughout the sixteenth century.
William van Zuylen van Nyevelt first published a collection of the Psalms of David. These,
in imitation of the French Calvinists, were sung to the most popular melodies. Zuylen found
many imitators. The Catholic party composed songs in opposition to the Reformers; and we have
psalms and songs by Utenhove, the painters Luc de Heere and Van Mander, by Van Haecht and Fruytiers.
A long list of obscure names, if we except those of Marnix and Houwaert, is mentioned as belonging
to this period,--their works mostly didactic or controversial. Houwaert, a Catholic, one of
the avowed friends and partisans of the Prince of Orange, courted the Muses in the hottest
days of civil strife. He published a poem, in sixteen cantos, entitled "The Gardens of the
Virgins," tending to show the dangers to which the fair sex is exposed, and condemning as unreal
all love not centred in God. With a remarkable fertility of composition he possesses an uncommon
smoothness of versification, combined with a power, so successful in his age, of illustration
from history or romance, from the sacred writings or the legendary lore of the people. The
work was received in those days of trouble with unbounded enthusiasm. Brabant was thought to
have given birth to a new Homer. His praises resounded in verse and song, and the young girls
of Brussels crowned him with laurel.

The government of the Duke of Alva, and the succeeding years of revolution, were a period of
desolation for Flanders. The Guilds of Rhetoric were dispersed; town after town was depopulated;
Ghent, the loved city of Charles V., lost six thousand families; Leyden, Amsterdam, Haerlem,
Gouda, afforded refuge to the emigrants. The golden age of literary activity is about to dawn
in the Dutch republic. In the other provinces the national language is more and more neglected.
It gives umbrage to the foreign chiefs who act as sovereigns. With it they identify all the
opposition that has prevailed against them. Archduke Albert carries his condescension no farther
than to address in High-German such of his subjects as can speak only Flemish. His Walloons
he treats with no more civility, answering them but in Spanish or Latin. Ymmeloot, lord of
Steenbrugge, a native of Ypres, endeavors in 1614 to stem the current of opposition and reawaken
a love for letters. He suggests many reforms in the versification, and gives the example. He
is followed by many, and Ypres becomes for a time a centre of versifiers. But the spirit of
originality has flown, and the literature of Holland is enriched with the name of many a Fleming
who preferred exile to the new rule.

In 1618, the General Synod of Dordrecht decreed that a new translation of the Bible should
be undertaken. Two Flemings, Baudaert and Walaeus, and two Dutchmen, Bogerman and Hommius,
completed it. Like the work of Luther, this tended in a great measure to fix the language,
preventing the preponderance of one dialect over the other.

Foreign imitation begins to prevail in Flanders. Frederic de Conincq constructs dramas on the
models of Lope de Vega, with the necessary quota of nocturnal visits, abductions, dagger-thrusts,
and bravado. An action entirely Spanish is conducted in the veriest patois of Antwerp. Ogier
follows in his footsteps, introducing upon the stage the coarsest language. He represents vice
in its most revolting forms. His theory, as he himself explains it, is, that "it is necessary
to represent vice on the stage, as the Romans formerly on certain days intoxicated their slaves
and showed them to their children, in order that they might at an early age become inspired
with a disgust for debauchery." Yet his comedies enjoyed the highest favor, and have been pronounced
by native critics among the most remarkable and meritorious productions of the epoch. They
are ever distinguished by vivacity, truth, and fidelity, in depicting the many-sided life of
the people. He seems to have been a literary Ostade or Teniers, with less of ingenuousness
and good-nature in the portraiture.

In the mean time the French language continues to gain ground every day. In Brussels, native
authors seek in vain to oppose the encroachments of the "Fransquillon," as Godin first styles
them; but, save the feeble productions of Van der Borcht, the Jesuit Poirtiers, and the Dominican
Vloers, we find but translations and imitations. Moons versifies some hundreds of fables. A
half-sentimental, sickly style, consisting only of praises, of self-abnegation, of pious ejaculations,
prevails. It is the worst of reactions;--the country, after its first outburst, had sunk into
quietude, the lethargy of inaction.

Holland, on the other hand, is active and doing. Its poets and historians are at work, the
precursors of Bilderdyk and Tollens, the poet of the people. Bruges, in the eighteenth century,
produces two writers of merit,--Smidts and Labare. In French Flanders, De Swaen adapts from
Corneille, and publishes original dramas. Many songs are composed both in the northern and
southern provinces, mostly of a religious character. Philologers seek to revive the neglected
idiom with little success. But the century is blank of great names. The Academy of Sciences
and Belles-Lettres, established at Brussels by Maria Theresa, was composed of members totally
unacquainted with the Flemish. It took no notice of the language beyond publishing a few prize-memoirs
in its annals. The German barons who ruled cared little for their own tongue: how should they
have manifested interest in that of their Belgian subjects? The subsequent French domination
was no improvement. On the 13th of June, 1803, it was decreed by the Republic,--"In a year,
reckoning from the publication of this present ordinance, the public acts, in the departments
once called Belgium, ... in those on the left bank of the Rhine, ... where the custom of drawing
up acts in the language of those countries may have been preserved, are henceforth to be written
in French." The Bonaparte rule was not of a nature to restore former privileges. In spite of
the feeble remonstrances that were urged against such arbitrary measures, an imperial decree
of 1812 enjoined that all Flemish papers should appear with a French translation.

Under the rule of King William, vigorous measures were employed to reinstate the native idiom.
At first warmly seconded, Government soon met with an unaccountable opposition even from its
subjects. The Dutch was combated by those connected with education. It was ridiculed by the
Walloon population. Since the independence of Belgium, the mouvement flamand has been felt
more than once by the would-be French rulers. In 1841, a Congress was held in Ghent, where
all the members of the Government spoke in Flemish; energetic protests were addressed to the
Chamber of Representatives, all with little avail. At present, though the language is nominally
on a par with French, it meets with little encouragement. The philological labors of Willems
entitle him to a place among the greatest of the present century; he was until his death the
leader of the intellectual movement of his country.

Of later authors, we may mention the laureate Ledeganck, Henri Conscience, whose works have
now been translated into English, French, German, Danish, and Swedish, Renier Snieders, Van
Duyse, Dantzenberg. Modern literature seems to have taken a new flight; it is animated by the
purest love of country, by an ardent desire in its authors to revive the use of their native
tongue. The tendency is rather Germanic. At the Singers' Festival, held in Ghent a short time
ago, the songs sung breathed a spirit of union and love for the sister languages. As a fair
sample, we may quote the following:--

  "Welaen, Germaen en Belg tezaem ten stryd
    Voor vryheid, tael en vaderland!
  De vaen van't duïtsch en vlaemsche zangverbond
    Prael op't gentsch eeregoud!
  Wy willen vry zyn, als de adelaer
    Die stout op eigen wieken dryft,
  Voor wien er slechts een koestring is, de zon.
    Alom waer der Germanen tael
  Zich heft en bloeid en't volk,
    Daer is ons vaderland!" London: John
Murray. 1860. pp. xx., 444.

Our readers are probably aware that the question of the causes of glacier formation and motion,
cool as the subject may seem in itself, has demonstrated the existence of a great deal of latent
heat among scientific men. In England, the so-called viscous theory of Professor J.D. Forbes
held for a long while undisputed possession of the field. With that impartial superciliousness
to all foreign achievement which not seldom characterizes the British mind, the credit of all
the results of observation and experiment on the glaciers was attributed to Professor Forbes,
who seems to have accepted it with delightful complacency. But presently doubt, then unbelief,
and at last downright opposition began to show themselves. The leader of the revolt was Professor
Tyndall, whose book is now before us. The controversy has begotten no little bitterness of
feeling; but none is shown in Mr. Tyndall's volume, which is throughout written in the truest
spirit of science,--with the earnest frankness that becomes a seeker of truth, and the dignity
that befits a lover of it.

Not content with any theoretic antagonism to the Forbes explanation of the phenomena, Mr. Tyndall
devoted all the leisure of several years to an examination of them on the spot. At the risk
of his life, he verified the previous observations of others and made new ones himself. At
home, he made experiments upon the nature of ice, especially upon its capacity for regulation
and the effect of pressure upon it. He satisfied himself that snow may be changed to ice by
pressure, that crumbled ice may in like manner be restored to its original condition, and that
solid ice may be forced to take any form desired. Under proper conditions, lamination may be
produced by the same means. The result of his investigations is, that the glacier is a solid
body, and that pressure answers all the requirements of the glacier-problem, and is the only
thing that will.

The book is one of uncommon interest, and discusses many topics beside the glaciers, though
nothing that is not in some way related to them. Mr. Tyndall does justice to former investigators,--especially
to M. Rendu, who, though imperfectly supplied with demonstrated facts, theorized the phenomena
with the happiest inspiration,--and to Agassiz, of whose important observations, establishing
for the first time the fact of more rapid motion in the middle of the glacier, Professor Forbes
had appropriated the credit. The style is remarkably agreeable, in description vivid, and in
its scientific parts clear. Indeed, we do not know whether we have enjoyed the narrative or
the science the most. Professor Tyndall has the uncommon gift of being able to write science
so that the unscientific can understand it, without descending to the low level of science
made easy. The Royal Institution may well congratulate itself on having in him a man every
way qualified to succeed Faraday, whenever (and may it be long first!) his chair is vacant.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART.

MR. JARVES'S COLLECTION.

It seems an odd turn in the kaleidoscope of Fortune that associates a Prime Minister of the
Sandwich Islands--where the only pictorial Art is a kind of illumination laboriously executed
by the natives on each other's skins, thus forming a free peripatetic gallery--with a collection
of pictures by early Italian masters. It is certainly a striking illustration of American multifariousness.
From the dawning civilization of Hawaii Mr. Jarves withdraws to Italy, where culture has passed
far beyond its noon, and finds himself equally at home in both. From Italy he has returned
to America with by far the most important contribution to historical Art that has ever reached
us. It is not easy to overestimate its value, whether intrinsically, or as an aid to intelligent
and refining study. We can hardly expect, it is true, ever to form such collections of Art
in this country as would save our students the necessity of visiting Europe. This, indeed,
would be hardly desirable; since a great deal of the refining and enlightening influence of
foreign travel and observation is not received directly from the special objects that may have
drawn us abroad, but incidentally and unexpectedly, by being brought into contact with strange
systems of government and new forms of thought. But what we might have is such a collection
as would enable those of us who cannot travel to enjoy some of the highest aesthetic advantages
of travel, and would send our students to the galleries of the Old World already in a condition
to appreciate and profit by them. Mr. Jarves's pictures afford the opportunity for an excellent
beginning in such an undertaking.

Mr. Jarves's object has been to form a gallery that should exhibit the origin, progress, and
culmination of Italian Art from the thirteenth to the seventeenth century, in such chronological
order as should show the sequence and affiliation of the various schools and the various motive
and inspiration that were operative in them. To quote his own language, Mr. Jarves began his
undertaking with no "expectation of acquiring masterpieces, or many, if any, of those specimens
upon which the reputation of the great masters is based. These are in the main either fixtures
in their native localities or permanently absorbed into the great galleries of Europe; and
America may scarcely hope ever to possess such. He did propose, however, to get together a
collection which should fairly represent the varied qualities of the masters themselves, and
the phases of inspiration, religious, aesthetic, or naturalistic, by which they were actuated.
And he claims now to have succeeded in this to an extent which in the outset he did not dare
to hope, and to have secured for the collection the approving verdict of European taste and
connoisseurship in the recognition of it as a valuable historical gallery of original paintings
of the epochs and schools they claim to represent.

"In putting forward this claim, he does it in full view of the character of the criticism and
doubts such an assumption naturally begets. The public are right in doubting; and they should
not be convinced except upon sound evidence. Therefore, while he unhesitatingly claims for
the collection the foregoing character, he expects and invites from the public the fullest
measure of impartial and intelligent criticism.

"The object of the collection is a nucleus for an American Gallery, to be established in the
most fitting place and upon a broad basis, sufficient to gratify and improve every variety
of taste and to advance the aesthetic culture of the people.

"With this aim, he has declined repeated overtures pecuniarily advantageous to divert it in
whole or part to other purposes; and in bringing it to America at his own risk and expense,
it is solely to test the disposition of the public to second such a project. If it meet their
approbation, the means best adapted for the purpose are to be maturely considered; but if otherwise,
it is his intention to return the gallery to Europe.

"It is a simple question, whether, after having had the opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the collection and his object in making it, the American public will sustain perfect this
humble beginning of a Public Gallery of Art, or abandon the formation of one to future chances,
when the difficulties will be much greater and the opportunities for success much fewer. It
must be considered, that, at this moment, while genuine works of Art are growing more and more
difficult to be procured, the rivalry of public and private collectors is rapidly increasing.
It is true that the existing great galleries come into the market only for pictures specially
wanted to fill some important gap in their series, for which they pay prices that would startle
our public economists. America will have to undergo the competition, even if she now enters
this field, of several important foreign galleries in the process of formation, among which
are those of Manchester, with a subscribed capital, as a beginning, of £100,000; of the Association
of St. Petersburg, for the same purpose, under the patronage of the Imperial Family; and of
one even in Australia."

Mr. Jarves's collection is not confined by any means to what may be called the curiosities
of Art. It contains one hundred and twenty-five pictures; and, rich as it is in works that
mark the successive stages of development in Italian painting, it possesses also specimens
of its later and most perfect productions. Examples of the pure Byzantine bring us to those
of the Greco-Italian school, and these to the early Italian, represented (in its Umbrian branch)
by Cimabue, by Giotto and his followers, the Gaddi, Cavallini, Giottino, Orgagna, and others;
while of the Sienese we have Duccio, Simone di Martino, and Lorenzetti, with more of less note.
Of the Ascetics we have, among others, Frà Angelico, Castagno, and Giovanni di Paolo. The Realists
are ushered in by Masolino, Masaccio, Filippo Lippi, and go on in an unbroken series through
Botticelli, Filippino Lippi, and Cosimo Roselli, to Domenico Ghirlandajo, Leonardo, Raffaello,
and a design of Michel Angelo, painted by one of his pupils. Nor does the succession end here;
Andrea del Sarto, R. Ghirlandajo, Vasari, Bronzino, Pontormo, and others, follow. Of the Religionists,
there are Lorenzo di Credi, Frà Bartolommeo, Perugino, and their scholars. The progress of
landscape, history, and anatomical drawing may be traced in Paolo Uccello, Dello Delli, Piero
di Cosimo, Pinturicchio, the Pollajuoli, and Luca Signorelli. Here also is Gentile da Fabriano.
Venice gives us G. Bellini, M. Basaiti, Giorgione, and Paul Veronese. And of the later Sienese,
there are Sodoma, Matteo da Siena, and Beccafumi. The list includes, also, Domenichino, Sebastian
del Piombo, Guido, Salvator Rosa, Holbein, Rubens, and Lo Spagna.

The names we have cited will be enough to show those familiar with the subject the scope of
the collection and its value as a consecutive series, embracing a period which few galleries
in any country cover so completely, since few have been gathered on any historical plan.

The chief question, of course, is as to the authenticity of the pictures. This cannot be decided
till they are exhibited and Mr. Jarves's proofs are before the public. It is mainly to be decided
on internal evidence, and it is on such evidence that a great part of the very early pictures
in foreign collections have been labelled with the names of particular artists. The weight
of such evidence is to be determined by the judgment of experts, and we are informed that Mr.
Jarves has a mass of testimony from those best qualified to decide in such cases,--among it
that of Sir Charles Eastlake, M. Rio, and the directors of the two great public galleries of
Florence. After all, however, this appears to us a matter of secondary consequence. If the
pictures are genuine productions of the periods they are intended to illustrate, if they are
good specimens of their several schools of Art, the special names of the artists who may have
painted them are a matter of less concern. The money-value of the collection might be lessened
without affecting its worth in other more considerable respects, as an illustration of the
rise and progress of the most important school of modern Art.

Every year it becomes more difficult to obtain pictures of the class of which Mr. Jarves's
collection is mainly composed. The directors of European galleries have become alive to their
value, and are sparing no effort to fill the lacuna left by the more strictly virtuoso taste
of a former generation. As far as the general public is concerned, such pictures must, no doubt,
create the taste by which they will be appreciated. The style of the more archaic ones among
them may be easily ridiculed, and the cry of Pre-Raphaelitism may be turned against them; but
we should not forget that these earlier efforts, however they might fail in grace of treatment
and ease of expression, are sincere and genuine products of their time, and very different
in spirit and character from the productions of the modern school, which aims to reproduce
a phase of Art when the thought and faith that animated it are gone past recall.

Mr. Jarves is desirous that the gallery should remain in his native city of Boston, and to
that end is willing to part with it on very generous terms. We cannot but hope that there will
be taste and public spirit enough to realize his design. By the side of the Museum of Natural
History under the charge of Agassiz, we should like to see one of Art that would supply another
great want in our culture. The Jarves Collection gives the opportunity for a most successful
beginning, and we trust it will not be allowed to follow the Ninevite Marbles.

       *       *       *       *        *

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

Rosa; or the Parisian Girl. From the French of Madame de Pressensé. By Mrs. J.C. Fletcher.
New York. Harper & Brothers. 18mo. pp. 371. 60 cts.

The Sunny South; or the Southerner at Home. Embracing Five Years' Experience of a Northern
Governess in the Land of the Sugar and the Cotton. Edited by Professor J.H. Ingraham of Mississippi.
Philadelphia. George G. Evans. 12mo. pp. 526. $1.25.

A Greek Grammar, for Schools and Colleges. By James Hadley, Professor in Yale College. New
York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 366. $1.25.

Life of William T. Porter. By Francis Brinley. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 273. $1.00.

Virgil's Aeneid; with Explanatory Notes. By Henry S. Frieze, Professor of Latin in the State
University of Michigan. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 598. $1.25.

What may be Learned from a Tree. By Harland Coultas, Author of "Organic Life the same in Animals
as in Plants," etc. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. pp. 190. $1.00.

Wilkins Wylder; or the Successful Man. By Stephen F. Miller, Author of "The Bench and Bar of
Georgia." Philadelphia. J.B. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 420. $1.00.

Italy in Transition. Public Scenes and Private Opinions in the Spring of 1860. Illustrated
by Official Documents from the Papal Archives of the Revolted Legations. By William Arthur,
A.M., Author of "The Successful Merchant." New York. Harper & Brothers. 16mo. pp. 429. $1.00.

Chapters on Wives. By Mrs. Ellis, Author Of "Mothers of Great Men." New York. Harper & Brothers.
16mo. pp. 358.

The Woman in White. A Novel. By Wilkie Collins, Author of "The Queen of Hearts," "After Dark,"
etc. Illustrated by John McLenan. New York. Harper & Brothers. 8vo. pp. 260. $1.00.

American History. By Jacob Abbott. Illustrated with Numerous Maps and Engravings. Vol. II.
Discovery of America. New York. Sheldon & Co. 18mo. pp. 288. 60 cts.

The German University in America. By J. Gambs, late Professor of the German University in the
Grand Duchy of Hesse. New York. Sheldon & Co. 16mo. pp. 22. 15 cts.

The Eighth Commandment. By Charles Reade. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 276. 75 cts.

A Treasury of Scripture Stories. Beautifully illustrated with Colored Plates, from Original
Designs, by the first of American Artists. New York. Sheldon & Co. 12mo. pp. 50. 75 cts.

A Man. By Rev. J.D. Bell. Philadelphia. James Challen & Son. 12mo. pp. 462. $1.25. By Captain
Henry Shakespear, Commandant Nagpore Irregular Force. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 282.
75 cts.

Reminiscences of an Officer of Zouaves. Translated from the French. New York. D. Appleton &
Co. 16mo. pp. 317. 75 cts.

The Lost Principle; or the Sectional Equilibrium: how it was created, how destroyed, how it
may be restored. By "Barbarossa." Richmond, Va. James Woodhouse & Co. 8vo. pp. 266. $1.50.

The Political Text-Book for 1860. Comprising a Brief View of Presidential Nominations and Elections,
including all the National Platforms ever yet adopted. Compiled by Horace Greeley and John
F. Cleveland. New York. Tribune Association. 8vo. pp. 248. $1.00.

The New American Cyclopaedia; a Popular Dictionary of General Knowledge. Edited by George Ripley
and Charles A. Dana. Vol. X. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. pp. 788, viii. $3.00.

French, German, Spanish, Latin, and Italian Languages without a Master, whereby any one or
all of these Languages can be learned by any one, without a Teacher, with the Aid of this Book.
By A.H. Monteith. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 374. $1.25.

The Kangaroo-Hunters: or Adventures in the Bush. By Anne Bowman. Boston. Crosby, Nichols, Lee,
& Co. 18mo. pp. 463. 75 cts.

Studies of the Earth. An Essay on the Figure and Surface-Divisions of the Earth, its Geological
and Meteorological Phenomena, and its Astronomical Elements. By Samuel E. Cones. Washington.
Philip & Solomons. Large 4to. pp. 100. $1.00.

