INFORMANTS

Anderson, Josephine Andrews, Samuel Simeon Austin, Bill

Berry, Frank Biddie, Mary Minus Boyd, Rev. Eli Boynton, Rivana Brooks, Matilda Bynes, Titus

Campbell, Patience Clayton, Florida Coates, Charles Coates, Irene Coker, Neil

Davis, Rev. Young Winston Dorsey, Douglas Douglass, Ambrose Duck, Mama Dukes, Willis

Everett, Sam and Louisa

Gaines, Duncan Gantling, Clayborn Gragston, Arnold Gresham, Harriett

Hall, Bolden Hooks, Rebecca

Jackson, Rev. Squires

Kemp, John Henry (Prophet) Kinsey, Cindy

Lee, Randall Lycurgas, Edward

McCray, Amanda Maxwell, Henry Mitchell, Christine Moore, Lindsey Mullen, Mack

Napoleon, Louis Nickerson, Margrett

Parish, Douglas Pretty, George

Scott, Anna Sherman, William Smalls, Samuel

Taswell, Salena Taylor, Dave Thomas, Acie Thomas, Shack Towns, Luke

Williams, Willis Wilson, Claude Augusta

COMBINED INTERVIEWS [TR: County names added]

DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, EX-SLAVE STORIES
  Charley Roberts
  Jennie Colder
  Banana Williams
  Frank Bates
  William Neighten
  Rivana Boynton [TR: Riviana in text]
  Salena Taswell

DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, FOLKLORE
  Annie Trip
  Millie Sampson
  Annie Gail
  Jessie Rowell
  Margaret White
  Priscilla Mitchell
  Fannie McCay
  Hattie Thomas
  David Lee

FOLK STUFF, FLORIDA Jules A. Frost Tampa, Florida October 20, 1937

JOSEPHINE ANDERSON

HANTS

"I kaint tell nothin bout slavery times cept what I heared folks talk about. I was too young
to remember much but I recleck seein my granma milk de cows an do de washin. Granpa was old,
an dey let him do light work, mosly fish an hunt.

"I doan member nothin bout my daddy. He died when I was a baby. My stepfather was Stephen Anderson,
an my mammy's name was Dorcas. He come fum Vajinny, but my mammy was borned an raised in Wilmington.
My name was Josephine Anderson fore I married Willie Jones. I had two half-brothers youngern
me, John Henry an Ed, an a half-sister, Elsie. De boys had to mind de calves an sheeps, an
Elsie nursed de missus' baby. I done de cookin, mosly, an helped my mammy spin.

"I was ony five year old when dey brung me to Sanderson, in Baker County, Florida. My stepfather
went to work for a turpentine man, makin barrels, an he work at dat job till he drop dead in
de camp. I reckon he musta had heart disease.

"I doan recleck ever seein my mammy wear shoes. Even in de winter she go barefoot, an I reckon
cold didn't hurt her feet no moran her hands an face. We all wore dresses made o' homespun.
De thread was spun an de cloth wove right in our own home. My mamy an granmamy an me done it
in spare time.

"My weddin dress was blue--blue for true. I thought it was de prettiest dress I ever see. We
was married in de court-house, an dat be a mighty happy day for me. Mos folks dem days got
married by layin a broom on de floor an jumpin over it. Dat seals de marriage, an at de same
time brings em good luck.

"Ya see brooms keeps hants away. When mean folks dies, de old debbil sometimes doan want em
down dere in da bad place, so he makes witches out of em, an sends em back. One thing bout
witches, dey gotta count everthing fore dey can git acrosst it. You put a broom acrosst your
door at night an old witches gotta count ever straw in dat broom fore she can come in.

"Some folks can jes nachly see hants bettern others. Teeny, my gal can. I reckon das cause
she been borned wid a veil--you know, a caul, sumpum what be over some babies' faces when dey
is borned. Folks borned wid a caul can see sperrits, an tell whas gonna happen fore it comes true.

"Use to worry Teeny right smart, seein sperrits day an night. My husban say he gonna cure her,
so he taken a grain o' corn an put it in a bottle in Teeny's bedroom over night. Den he planted
it in de yard, an driv plenty sticks roun da place. When it was growin good, he put leaf-mold
roun de stalk, an watch it ever day, an tell us don't nobody touch de stalk. It raise three
big ears o' corn, an when dey was good roastin size he pick em off an cook em an tell Teeny
eat ever grain offn all three cobs. He watch her while she done it, an she ain never been worried
wid hants no more. She sees em jes the same, but dey doan bother her none.

"Fust time I ever knowed a hant to come into our quarters was when I was jes big nough to go
out to parties. De game what we use to play was spin de plate. Ever time I think on dat game
it gives me de shivers. One time there was a strange young man come to a party where I was.
Said he name Richard Green, an he been takin keer o' horses for a rich man what was gonna buy
a plantation in dat county. He look kinda slick an dressed-up--diffunt from de rest. All de
gals begin to cast sheep's eyes at him, an hope he gonna choose dem when day start playin games.

"Pretty soon dey begin to play spin de plate an it come my turn fust thing. I spin it an call
out 'Mister Green!' He jumps to de middle o' de ring to grab de plate an 'Bang'--bout four
guns go off all at oncet, an Mister Green fall to de floor plum dead shot through de head.

"Fore we knowed who done it, de sheriff an some more men jump down from de loft, where dey
bean hidin an tell us quit hollerin an doan be scairt. Dis man be a bad deeper--you know, one
o' them outlaws what kills folks. He some kinda foreigner, an jes tryin make blieve he a niggah,
so's they don't find him.

"Wall we didn't feel like playin no more games, an f'ever after dat you coundn't git no niggahs
to pass dat house alone atter dark. Dey say da place was hanted, an if you look through de
winder any dark night you could see a man in dere spinnin de plate.

"I sho didn't never look in, cause I done seen more hants aready dan I ever wants to see agin.
One night I was goin to my granny's house. It was jes comin dark, an when I got to de crick
an start across on de foot-log, dere on de other end o' dat log was a man wid his haid cut
off an layin plum over on his shoulder. He look at me, kinda pitiful, an don't say a word--but
I closely never waited to see what he gonna talk about. I pure flew back home. I was so scairt
I couldn't tell de folks what done happened till I set down an get my breath.

"Nother time, not so long ago, when I live down in Gary, I be walkin down de railroad track
soon in de mornin an fore I knowed it, dere was a white man walkin long side o' me. I jes thought
it were somebody, but I wadn't sho, so I turn off at de fust street to git way from dere. De
nex mawnin I be boin[TR: goin?] to work at de same time. It were kinda foggy an dark, so I
never seen nobody till I mighty nigh run into dis same man, an dere he goes, bout half a step
ahead o' me, his two hands restin on his be-hind.

"I was so close up to him I could see him plain as I see you. He had fingernails dat long,
all cleaned an polished. He was tull, an had on a derby hat, an stylish black clothes. When
I walk slow he slow down, an when I stop, he stop, never oncet lookin roun. My feets make a
noise on de cinders tween de rails, but he doan make a mite o' noise. Dat was de fust thing
got me scairt, but I figger I better find out for sho ifen he be a sperrit; so I say, gook
an loud: 'Lookee here, Mister, I jez an old colored woman, an I knows my place, an I wisht
you wouldn't walk wid me counta what folks might say.'

"He never looked roun no moren if I wan't there, an I cut my eyes roun to see if there is somebody
I can holler to for help. When I looked back he was gone; gone, like dat, without makin a sound.
Den I knowed he be a hant, an de nex day when I tell somebody bout it dey say he be de genman
what got killed at de crossin a spell back, an other folks has seen him jus like I did. Dey
say dey can hear babies cryin at de trestle right near dere, an ain't nobody yit ever found em.

"Dat ain de ony hant I ever seen. One day I go out to de smokehouse to git a mess o' taters.
It was after sundown, but still purty light. When I gits dere de door be unlocked an a big
man standin half inside. 'What you doin stealin our taters!' I hollers at him, an pow! He gone,
jes like dat. Did I git back to dat house! We mighty glad to eat grits an cornbread dat night.

"When we livin at Titusville, I see my old mammy comin up de road jus as plain as day. I stan
on de porch, fixin to run an meet her, when all of a sudden she be gone. I begin to cry an
tell de folks I ain't gonna see my mammy agin. An sho nuff, I never did. She die at Sanderson,
back in West Florida, fore I got to see her.

"Does I blieve in witches? S-a-a-y, I knows more bout em den to jes 'blieve'--I been rid by
em. Right here in dis house. You ain never been rid by a witch? Well, you mighty lucky. Dey
come in de night, ginnerly soon after you drop off to sleep. Dey put a bridle on your head,
an a bit in your mouth, an a saddle on your back. Den dey take off their skin an hang it up
on de wall. Den dey git on you an some nights dey like to ride you to death. You try to holler
but you kaint, counta the iron bit in your mouth, an you feel like somebody holdin you down.
Den dey ride you back home an into your bed. When you hit de bed you jump an grab de kivers,
an de witch be gone, like dat. But you know you been rid mighty hard, cause you all wet wid
sweat, an you feel plum tired out.

"Some folks say you jus been dreamin, counta de blood stop circulatin in yaur back. Shucks!
Dey ain never been rid by a witch, or dey ain sayin dat.

"Old witch docter, he want ten dollers for a piece of string, what he say some kinda charm
words over. Tells me to make a image o' dat old witch outa dough, an tie dat string roun its
neck; den when I bake it in de oven, it swell up an de magic string shet off her breath. I
didn't have no ten dollar, so he say ifen I git up five dollar he make me a hand--you know,
what collored folks cals a jack. Dat be a charm what will keep de witches away. I knows how
to make em, but day doan do no good thout de magic words, an I doan know dem. You take a little
pinch o' dried snake skin an some graveyard dirt, an some red pepper an a lock o' your hair
wrapped roun some black rooster feathers. Den you spit whiskey on em an wrap em in red flannel
an sew if into a ball bout dat big. Den you hang it under your right armpit, an ever week you
give it a drink o' whiskey, to keep it strong an powful.

"Dat keep de witches fum ridin you; but nary one o' dese charms work wid dis old witch. I got
a purty good idee who she is, an she got a charm powfuller dan both of dem. But she kaint git
acrosst flaxseed, not till she count ever seed. You doan blieve dat? Huh! I reckon I knows--I
done tried it out. I gits me a lil bag o' pure fresh flaxseed, an I sprinkle it all roun de
bed; den I put some on top of da mattress, an under de sheet. Den I goes to bed an sleeps like
a baby, an dat old witch doan bother me no more.

"Ony oncet. Soon's I wake up, I light me a lamp an look on de floor an dere, side o' my bed
was my dress, layin right over dat flaxseed, so's she could walk over on de dress, big as life.
I snatch up de dress an throw it an de bed; den I go to sleep, an I ain never been bothered
no more.

"Some folks reads de Bible backwards to keep witches fum ridin em, but dat doan do me no good,
cause I kaint read. But flaxseed work so good I doan be studyin night-ridin witches no more."

FEDERAL WRITERS' PROJECT American Guide, (Negro Writers' Unit)

Rachel A. Austin, Field Worker John A. Simms, Editor Jacksonville, Florida October 27, 1936

SAMUEL SIMEON ANDREWS

For almost 30 years Edward Waters College, an African Methodist Episcopal School, located on
the north side of Kings Road in the western section of Jacksonville, has employed as watchman,
Samuel Simeon Andrews (affectionately called "Parson"), a former slave of A.J. Lane of Georgia,
Lewis Ripley of Beaufort, South Carolina, Ed Tillman of Dallas, Texas, and John Troy of Union
Springs, Alabama.

"Parson" was born November 18, 1850 in Macon, Georgia, at a place called Tatum Square, where
slaves were held, housed and sold. "Speculators" (persons who traveled from place to place
with slaves for sale) had housed 84 slaves there--many of whom were pregnant women. Besides
"Parson," two other slave-children, Ed Jones who now lives in Sparta, Georgia, and George Bailey
were born in Tatum Square that night. The morning after their births, a woman was sent from
the nearby A.J. Lane plantation to take care of the three mothers; this nurse proved to be
"Parson's" grandmother. His mother told him afterwards that the meeting of mother and daughter
was very jubilant, but silent and pathetic, because neither could with safety show her pleasure
in finding the other. At the auction which was held a few days later, his mother, Rachel, and
her two sons, Solomon Augustus and her infant who was later to be known as "Parson," were purchased
by A.J. Lane who had previously bought "Parson's" father, Willis, from a man named Dolphus
of Albany, Georgia; thus were husband and wife re-united. They were taken to Lane's plantation
three miles out of Sparta, Georgia, in Hancock County. Mr. Lane owned 85 slaves and was known
to be very kind and considerate.

"Parson" lived on the Lane plantation until he was eight years old, when he was sold to Lewis
Ripley of Beaufort, South Carolina, with whom he lived for two years; he was then sold to Ed
Tillman of Dallas, Texas; he stayed on the Tillman plantation for about a year and until he
was purchased by John Troy of Union Springs, Alabama--the richest slave-holder in Union Springs,
Alabama; he remained with him until Emancipation. He recalls that during one of these sales
about $800.00 was paid for him.

He describes A.J. Lane as being a kind slave-holder who fed his slaves well and whipped them
but little. All of his other masters, he states, were nice to children, but lashed and whipped
the grown-ups.

Mr. Lane's family was comprised of his wife, Fannie (who also was very kind to the slaves)
five children, Harriett Ann, Jennie, Jeff, Frankie and Mae Roxie, a brother (whose name he
does not recall) who owned a few slaves but was kind to those that he did own. Although very
young during slavery, "Parson" remembers many plantation activities and customs, among which
are the following: That the master's children and those of the slaves on the plantation played
together; the farm crops consisted of corn, cotton, peas, wheat and oats; that the food for
the slaves was cooked in pots which were hung over a fire; that the iron ovens used by the
slaves had tops for baking; how during the Civil War, wheat, corn and dried potatoes were parched
and used as substitutes for coffee; that his mother was given a peck of flour every two weeks;
that a mixture of salt and sand was dug from the earthern floor of the smokehouse and water
poured over it to get the salt drippings for seasoning; that most medicine consisted of boiled
roots; when thread and cloth were dyed with the dye obtained from maple bark; when shoes were
made on a wooden last and soles and uppers fastened together with maple pegs; when the white
preachers preached "obey your masters"; that the first buggy that he saw was owned by his master,
A.J. Lane; it had a seat at the rear with rest which was usually occupied by a man who was
called the "waiter"; there was no top to the seat and the "waiter" was exposed to the weather.
He recalls when wooden slats and tightened ropes were used for bed springs; also the patience
of "Aunt Letha" an old woman slave who took care of the children in the neighborhood while
their parents worked, and how they enjoyed watching "Uncle Umphrey" tan cow and pig hides.

"Parson" describes himself as being very frisky as a boy and states that he did but very little
work and got but very few whippings. Twice he ran away to escape being whipped and hid in asparagus
beds in Sparta, Georgia until nightfall; when he returned the master would not whip him because
he was apprehensive that he might run away again and be stolen by poorer whites and thus cause
trouble. The richer whites, he relates, were afraid of the poorer whites; if the latter were
made angry they would round up the owners' sheep and turn them loose into their cotton fields
and the sheep would eat the cotton, row by row.

He compares the relationship between the rich and poor whites during slavery with that of the
white and Negro people of today.

With a face full of frowns, "Parson" tells of a white man persuading his mother to let him
tie her to show that he was master, promising not to whip her, and she believed him. When he
had placed her in a buck (hands tied on a stick so that the stick would turn her in any direction)
he whipped her until the blood ran down her back.

With changed expression he told of an incident during the Civil War: Slaves, he explained had
to have passes to go from one plantation to another and if one were found without a pass the
"patrollers" would pick him up, return him to his master and receive pay for their service.
The "patrollers" were guards for runaway slaves. One night they came to Aunt Rhoda's house
where a crowd of slaves had gathered and were going to return them to their masters; Uncle
Umphrey the tanner, quickly spaded up some hot ashes and pitched it on them; all of the slaves
escaped unharmed, while all of the "patrollers" were badly injured; no one ever told on Uncle
Umphrey and when Aunt Rhoda was questioned by her master she stated that she knew nothing about
it but told them that the "patrollers" had brought another "nigger" with them; her master took
it for granted that she spoke the truth since none of the other Negroes were hurt. He remembers
seeing this but does not remember how he, as a little boy, was prevented from telling about it.

Asked about his remembrance or knowledge of the slaves' belief in magic and spells he said:
"I remember this and can just see the dogs running around now. My mother's brother, "Uncle
Dick" and "Uncle July" swore they would not work longer for masters; so they ran away and lived
in the woods. In winter they would put cotton seed in the fields to rot for fertilizer and
lay in it for warmth. They would kill hogs and slip the meat to some slave to cook for food.
When their owners looked for them, "Bob Amos" who raised "nigger hounds" (hounds raised solely
to track Negro slaves) was summoned and the dogs located them and surrounded them in their
hide-out; one went one way and one the other and escaped in the swamps; they would run until
they came to a fence--each kept some "graveyard dust and a few lightwood splinters" with which
they smoked their feet and jumped the fence and the dogs turned back and could track no further.
Thus, they stayed in the woods until freedom, when they came out and worked for pay. Now, you
know "Uncle Dick" just died a few years ago in Sparta, Georgia."

