MEXICO AND ITS RELIGION;

WITH

INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL IN THAT COUNTRY DURING PARTS OF THE YEARS 1851-52-53-54,

AND

HISTORICAL NOTICES OF EVENTS CONNECTED WITH PLACES VISITED.

BY

ROBERT A. WILSON.

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.

NEW YORK: HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE. 1855.

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-five, by

HARPER & BROTHERS,

In the Clerk's Office for the Southern District of New York.

TO

THE AMERICAN PARTY OF THE UNITED STATES,

THE FOLLOWING PAGES

Are Respectfully Dedicated.

PREFACE.

The custom of mingling together historical events with the incidents of travel, of amusement
with instruction, is rather a Spanish than American practice; and in adopting it, I must crave
the indulgence of those of my readers who read only for instruction, as well as of those who
read only for amusement.

The evidence that I have adduced to prove that the yellow fever is not an American, but an
African disease, imported in slave-ships, and periodically renewed from those cargoes of human
rottenness and putrefaction, I hope will be duly considered.

The picture of inner convent life, and the inimitable gambling scene in the convent of San
Francis, I have not dared to present on my own responsibility, nor even that of the old English
black-letter edition of Friar Thomas, but I have reproduced it from the expurgated Spanish
edition, which has passed the censors, and must therefore be considered official.

I have presumed to follow the great Las Casas, who called all the historians of the Conquest
of Mexico liars; and though his labored refutation of their fictions has disappeared, yet,
fortunately, the natural evidences of their untruth still remain. Having before me the surveys
and the levels of our own engineers, I have presumed to doubt that water ever ran up hill,
that navigable canals were ever fed by "back water," that pyramids (teocalli) could rest on
a foundation of soft earth, that a canal twelve feet broad by twelve feet deep, mostly below
the water level, was ever dug by Indians with their rude implements, that gardens ever floated
in mud, or that brigantines ever sailed in a salt marsh, or even that 100,000 men ever entered
the mud-built city of Mexico by a narrow causeway in the morning, and after fighting all day
returned by the same path at night to their camp, or that so large a besieging army as 150,000
men could be supported in a salt-marsh valley, surrounded by high mountains.

In answer to the question why such fables have so long passed for history, I have the ready
answer, that the Inquisition controlled every printing-office in Spain and her colonies, and
its censors took good care that nothing should be printed against the fair fame of so good
a Christian as Cortéz, who had painted upon his banner an image of the Immaculate Virgin, and
had bestowed upon her a large portion of his robbery; who had gratified the national taste
for holy wars by writing one of the finest of Spanish romances of history; who had induced
the Emperor to overlook his crime of levying war without a royal license by the bestowal of
rich presents and rich provinces; so that, by the favor of the Emperor and the favor of the
Inquisition, a filibustero, whose atrocities surpassed those of every other on record, has
come down to us as a Christian hero.

The innumerable little things about their Indian mounds force the conviction on the experienced
eye of an American traveler that the Aztecs were a horde of North American savages, who had
precipitated themselves first upon the table-land, and afterward, like the Goths from the table-lands
of Spain, extended their conquests over the expiring civilization of the coast country; and
this idea is confirmed by the fact that the magnificent Toltec monuments of a remote antiquity,
discovered in the tropical forests, were apparently unknown to the Aztecs. The conquest of
Mexico, like our conquest of California, was in itself a small affair; but both being immediately
followed by extensive discoveries of the precious metals, Mexico rose as rapidly into opulence
as San Francisco has in our day.

The evidence that I have presented of the inexhaustible supplies of silver in Northern Mexico,
near the route of our proposed Pacific Railroad, may be interesting to legislators. These masses
of silver lie as undisturbed by their present owners as did the Mexican discoveries of gold
in California before the American conquest, from the inertness of the local population, and
the want of facilities of communication with the city of Mexico.

The notion that the Mormons are destined to overrun Mexico is, of course, only an inference
drawn from the exact parallel that exists between the circumstances under which this delusion
has arisen and propagated itself and the history of Mohammedanism from its rise until it overran
the degenerated Christians of the Eastern empire.

From want of space, I have been obliged to omit much valuable original matter procured for
me by officers of government at the palace of Mexico, to whom, for the kind attention that
I have upon all occasions received from them, I heartily return my most sincere thanks.

R. A. WILSON.

Rochester, September 1st, 1855.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

Arrival at Vera Cruz.--Its appearance from the Steamer.--Getting Ashore.--Within the City.--Throwing
Stones at an Image.--Antiquity of Vera Cruz.--Its Commerce.--The great Norther of 1852.--A
little Steamer rides out the Tempest.--The Vomito, or Yellow Fever.--Ravages of the Vomito.--The
Vomito brought from Africa in Slave-ships.--A curious old Book.--Our Monk arrives at Vera Cruz,
and what befalls him there.--Life in a Convent.--A nice young Prior.--Our Monk finds himself
in another World                                           15

CHAPTER II.

An historical Sketch.--Truth seldom spoken of Santa Anna.--Santa Anna's early Life.--Causes
of the Revolution.--The Virgin Mary's Approval of King Ferdinand.--The Inquisition imprisons
the Vice-King.--Santa Anna enters the King's Army.--The plan of Iguala.--The War of the two
Virgins.--Santa Anna pronounces for Independence                                          
30

CHAPTER III.

Incidents of Travel.--The Great Road to the Interior.--Mexican Diligences.--The Priest was
the first Passenger robbed.--The National Bridge.--A Conducta of Silver.--Our Monk visits Old
Vera Cruz.--They grant to the Indians forty Years of Indulgence in return for their Hospitality.--The
Artist among Robbers.--Mexican Scholars in the United States.--Encerro                    
39

CHAPTER IV.

Jalapa.--The extraordinary Beauty and Fertility of this Spot.--Jalap, Sarsaparilla, Myrtle,
Vanilla, Cochineal, and Wood of Tobasco.--The charming Situation of Jalapa.--Its Flowers and
its Fruits.--Magnificent Views.--The tradition that Jalapa was Paradise.--A speck of War.--The
Marriage of a Heretic.--A gambling Scene in a Convent                                        52

CHAPTER V.

The War of the Secret Political Societies of Mexico.--The Scotch and the York Free-Masons.--Anti-Masons.--Rival
Classes compose Scotch Lodges.--The Yorkinos.--Men desert from the Scotch to the York Lodges.--Law
to suppress Secret Societies.--The Escocés, or Scotch Masons, take up arms.--The Battle.--Their
total Defeat      68

CHAPTER VI.

Mexico becomes an Empire.--Santa Anna deposes the Emperor.--He proclaims a Republic.--He pronounces
against the Election of Pedraza, the second President.--His Situation in the Convent at Oajaca.--He
captures the Spanish Armada.--And is made General of Division                             
73

CHAPTER VII.

