She did not, indeed, look for a continuance of the  horrors which then prevailed. She knew
that when the incentive was removed the acts would cease. There would be peace, because there
would no longer be any need for violence. But she was sure there would be no real freedom,
no equality of right, no certainty of justice. She did not care who ruled, but she knew that
this people--she felt almost like calling them her people--needed the incentive of liberty,
the inspiriting rivalry of open and fair competition, to enable them to rise. Ay, to prevent
them from sinking lower and lower. She greatly feared that  the words of a journal which gloried
in all  that had been done toward abbreviating and annulling  the powers, rights, and opportunities
of the recent slaves  might yet become verities if these people were deprived  of such incentives.
She remembered how deeply-rooted  in the Southern mind was the idea that slavery was a  social
necessity. She did not believe, as so many had insisted, that it was founded merely in greed.
She believed that it was with sincere conviction that a leading  journal had declared: "The
evils of free society are insufferable. Free society must fail and give way to a  class society--a
social system old as the world, universal as man."

She knew that the leader of a would-be nation had declared:  "A thousand must die as slaves
or paupers in  order that one gentleman may live. Yet they are cheap  to any nation, even at
that price."

So she feared that the victors in the post-bellum strife which was raging around her would
succeed, for a time at least, in establishing this ideal "class society." While the Nation
slumbered in indifference, she feared that these men, still full of the spirit of slavery,
in the very name of law and order, under the pretense of decency and justice, would re-bind
those whose feet had just begun to tread the path of liberty with shackles only less onerous
than those which had been dashed from their limbs by red-handed war. As she thought of these
things she read the following words from the pen of one who had carefully watched the process
of "redemption," and had noted its results and tendency--not bitterly and angrily, as she had
done, but coolly and approvingly:

"We would like to engrave a prophecy on stone, to be read of generations in the future. The
Negro, in these [the Southern] States, will be slave again or cease to be.  His sole refuge
from extinction will be in slavery to the white man." [Footnote: Out of the numerous declarations
of this conviction which have been made by the Southern press every year since the war, I have
selected one from the Meridian (Miss.) Mercury of July 31st, 1880. I have done this simply
to show that the sentiment is not yet dead.]

She remembered to have heard a great man say, on a memorable occasion, that "the forms of law
have always been the graves of buried liberties." She feared that, under the "forms" of subverted
laws, the liberties of a helpless people would indeed be buried. She had little care for the
Nation. It was of those she had served and whose future she regarded with such engrossing interest
that she thought. She did not dream of remedying the evil. That was beyond her power. She only
thought she might save some from its scath. To that she devoted herself.

