Within the city, negro carriers may be heard at all hours, in couples, engaged in the transportation
of clove-bags, boxes of merchandise, &c., from store to "godown" and from "go-down" to the
beach, singing a kind of monotone chant for the encouragement of each other, and for the guiding
of their pace as they shuffle through the streets with bare feet.  You may recognise these
men readily, before long, as old acquaintances, by the consistency with which they sing the
tunes they have adopted.  Several times during a day have I heard the same couple pass beneath
the windows of the Consulate, delivering themselves of the same invariable tune and words.
Some might possibly deem the songs foolish and silly, but they had a certain attraction for
me, and I considered that they were as useful as anything else for the purposes they were intended.

The town of Zanzibar, situate on the south-western shore of the island, contains a population
of nearly one hundred thousand inhabitants; that of the island altogether I would estimate
at not more than two hundred thousand inhabitants, including all races.

The greatest number of foreign vessels trading with this port are American, principally from
New York and Salem.  After the American come the German, then come the French and English.
They arrive loaded with American sheeting, brandy, gunpowder, muskets, beads, English cottons,
brass-wire, china-ware, and other notions, and depart with ivory, gum-copal, cloves, hides,
cowries, sesamum, pepper, and cocoa-nut oil.

The value of the exports from this port is estimated at $3,000,000, and the imports from all
countries at $3,500,000.

The Europeans and Americans residing in the town of Zanzibar are either Government officials,
independent merchants, or agents for a few great mercantile houses in Europe and America.

The climate of Zanzibar is not the most agreeable in the world.  I have heard Americans and
Europeans condemn it most heartily.  I have also seen nearly one-half of the white colony laid
up in one day from sickness.  A noxious malaria is exhaled from the shallow inlet of Malagash,
and the undrained filth, the garbage, offal, dead mollusks, dead pariah dogs, dead cats, all
species of carrion, remains of men and beasts unburied, assist to make Zanzibar a most unhealthy
city; and considering that it it ought to be most healthy, nature having pointed out to man
the means, and having assisted him so far, it is most wonderful that the ruling prince does
not obey the dictates of reason.

The bay of Zanzibar is in the form of a crescent, and on the south-western horn of it is built
the city.  On the east Zanzibar is bounded almost entirely by the Malagash Lagoon, an inlet
of the sea.  It penetrates to at least two hundred and fifty yards of the sea behind or south
of Shangani Point.  Were these two hundred and fifty yards cut through by a ten foot ditch,
and the inlet deepened slightly, Zanzibar would become an island of itself, and what wonders
would it not effect as to health and salubrity!  I have never heard this suggestion made, but
it struck me that the foreign consuls resident at Zanzibar might suggest this work to the Sultan,
and so get the credit of having made it as healthy a place to live in as any near the equator.
But apropos of this, I remember what Capt. Webb, the American Consul, told me on my first arrival,
when I expressed to him my wonder at the apathy and inertness of men born with the indomitable
energy which characterises Europeans and Americans, of men imbued with the progressive and
stirring instincts of the white people, who yet allow themselves to dwindle into pallid phantoms
of their kind, into hypochondriacal invalids, into hopeless believers in the deadliness of
the climate, with hardly a trace of that daring and invincible spirit which rules the world.

"Oh," said Capt. Webb, "it is all very well for you to talk about energy and all that kind
of thing, but I assure you that a residence of four or five years on this island, among such
people as are here, would make you feel that it was a hopeless task to resist the influence
of the example by which the most energetic spirits are subdued, and to which they must submit
in time, sooner or later.  We were all terribly energetic when we first came here, and struggled
bravely to make things go on as we were accustomed to have them at home, but we have found
that we were knocking our heads against granite walls to no purpose whatever.  These fellows--
the Arabs, the Banyans, and the Hindis--you can't make them go faster by ever so much scolding
and praying, and in a very short time you see the folly of fighting against the unconquerable.
Be patient, and don't fret, that is my advice, or you won't live long here."

There were three or four intensely busy men, though, at Zanzibar, who were out at all hours
of the day.  I know one, an American; I fancy I hear the quick pit-pat of his feet on the pavement
beneath the Consulate, his cheery voice ringing the salutation, "Yambo!" to every one he met;
and he had lived at Zanzibar twelve years.

I know another, one of the sturdiest of Scotchmen, a most pleasant-mannered and unaffected
man, sincere in whatever he did or said, who has lived at Zanzibar several years, subject to
the infructuosities of the business he has been engaged in, as well as to the calor and ennui
of the climate, who yet presents as formidable a front as ever to the apathetic native of Zanzibar.
No man can charge Capt. H. C.  Fraser, formerly of the Indian Navy, with being apathetic.

I might with ease give evidence of the industry of others, but they are all my friends, and
they are all good.  The American, English, German, and French residents have ever treated me
with a courtesy and kindness I am not disposed to forget.  Taken as a body, it would be hard
to find a more generous or hospitable colony of white men in any part of the world.

CHAPTER III.  ORGANIZATION OF THE EXPEDITION.

I was totally ignorant of the interior, and it was difficult at first to know, what I needed,
in order to take an Expedition into Central Africa.  Time was precious, also, and much of it
could not be devoted to inquiry and investigation.  In a case like this, it would have been
a godsend, I thought, had either of the three gentlemen, Captains Burton, Speke, or Grant,
given some information on these points; had they devoted a chapter upon, "How to get ready
an Expedition for Central Africa."  The purpose of this chapter, then, is to relate how I set
about it, that other travellers coming after me may have the benefit of my experience.

These are some of the questions I asked myself, as I tossed on my bed at night:--

"How much money is required?"

"How many pagazis, or carriers?

"How many soldiers?"

"How much cloth?"

"How many beads?"

"How much wire?"

"What kinds of cloth are required for the different tribes?"

Ever so many questions to myself brought me no clearer the exact point I wished to arrive at.
I scribbled over scores of sheets of paper, made estimates, drew out lists of material, calculated
the cost of keeping one hundred men for one year, at so many yards of different kinds of cloth,
etc.  I studied Burton, Speke, and Grant in vain.  A good deal of geographical, ethnological,
and other information appertaining to the study of Inner Africa was obtainable, but information
respecting the organization of an expedition requisite before proceeding to Africa, was not
in any book. The Europeans at Zanzibar knew as little as possible about this particular point.
There was not one white man at Zanzibar who could tell how many dotis a day a force of one
hundred men required to buy food for one day on the road.  Neither, indeed, was it their business
to know.  But what should I do at all, at all?  This was a grand question.

I decided it were best to hunt up an Arab merchant who had been engaged in the ivory trade,
or who was fresh from the interior.

Sheikh Hashid was a man of note and of wealth in Zanzibar.  He had himself despatched several
caravans into the interior, and was necessarily acquainted with several prominent traders who
came to his house to gossip about their adventures and gains.  He was also the proprietor of
the large house Capt. Webb occupied; besides, he lived across the narrow street which separated
his house from the Consulate.  Of all men Sheikh Hashid was the man to be consulted, and he
was accordingly invited to visit me at the Consulate.

From the grey-bearded and venerable-looking Sheikh, I elicited more information about African
currency, the mode of procedure, the quantity and quality of stuffs I required, than I had
obtained from three months' study of books upon Central Africa; and from other Arab merchants
to whom the ancient Sheikh introduced me, I received most valuable suggestions and hints, which
enabled me at last to organize an Expedition.

The reader must bear in mind that a traveller requires only that which is sufficient for travel
and exploration that a superfluity of goods or means will prove as fatal to him as poverty
of supplies.  It is on this question of quality and quantity that the traveller has first to
exercise his judgment and discretion.

My informants gave me to understand that for one hundred men, 10 doti, or 40 yards of cloth
per diem, would suffice for food. The proper course to pursue, I found, was to purchase 2,000
doti of American sheeting, 1,000 doti of Kaniki, and 650 doti of the coloured cloths, such
as Barsati, a great favourite in Unyamwezi; Sohari, taken in Ugogo; Ismahili, Taujiri, Joho,
Shash, Rehani, Jamdani or Kunguru-Cutch, blue and pink.  These were deemed amply sufficient
for the subsistence of one hundred men for twelve months.  Two years at this rate would require
4,000 doti = 16,000 yards of American sheeting; 2,000 doti = 8,000 yards of Kaniki; 1,300 doti
= 5,200 yards of mixed coloured cloths.  This was definite and valuable information to me,
and excepting the lack of some suggestions as to the quality of the sheeting, Kaniki, and coloured
cloths, I had obtained all I desired upon this point.

Second in importance to the amount of cloth required was the quantity and quality of the beads
necessary.  Beads, I was told, took the place of cloth currency among some tribes of the interior.
One tribe preferred white to black beads, brown to yellow, red to green, green to white, and
so on.  Thus, in Unyamwezi, red (sami-sami) beads would readily be taken, where all other kinds
would be refused; black (bubu) beads, though currency in Ugogo, were positively worthless with
all other tribes; the egg (sungomazzi) beads, though valuable in Ujiji and Uguhha, would be
refused in all other countries; the white (Merikani) beads though good in Ufipa, and some parts
of Usagara and Ugogo, would certainly be despised in Useguhha and Ukonongo. Such being the
case, I was obliged to study closely, and calculate the probable stay of an expedition in the
several countries, so as to be sure to provide a sufficiency of each kind, and guard against
any great overplus.  Burton and Speke, for instance, were obliged to throw away as worthless
several hundred fundo of beads.

For example, supposing the several nations of Europe had each its own currency, without the
means of exchange, and supposing a man was about to travel through Europe on foot, before starting
he would be apt to calculate how many days it would take him to travel through France; how
many through Prussia, Austria, and Russia, then to reckon the expense he would be likely to
incur per day.  If the expense be set down at a napoleon per day, and his journey through France
would occupy thirty days, the sum required forgoing and returning might be properly set down
at sixty napoleons, in which case, napoleons not being current money in Prussia, Austria, or
Russia, it would be utterly useless for him to burden himself with the weight of a couple of
thousand napoleons in gold.

My anxiety on this point was most excruciating.  Over and over I studied the hard names and
measures, conned again and again the polysyllables; hoping to be able to arrive some time at
an intelligible definition of the terms.  I revolved in my mind the words Mukunguru, Ghulabio,
Sungomazzi, Kadunduguru, Mutunda, Samisami, Bubu, Merikani, Hafde, Lunghio-Rega, and Lakhio,
until I was fairly beside myself.  Finally, however, I came to the conclusion that if I reckoned
my requirements at fifty khete, or five fundo per day, for two years, and if I purchased only
eleven varieties, I might consider myself safe enough.  The purchase was accordingly made,
and twenty-two sacks of the best species were packed and brought to Capt. Webb's house, ready
for transportation to Bagamoyo.

After the beads came the wire question.  I discovered, after considerable trouble, that Nos.
5 and 6--almost of the thickness of telegraph wire--were considered the best numbers for trading
purposes.  While beads stand for copper coins in Africa, cloth measures for silver; wire is
reckoned as gold in the countries beyond the Tan-ga-ni-ka.*  Ten frasilah, or 350 lbs., of
brass-wire, my Arab adviser thought, would be ample.

* It will be seen that I differ from Capt. Burton in the spelling of this word, as I deem the
letter " y  " superfluous.

Having purchased the cloth, the beads, and the wire, it was with no little pride that I surveyed
the comely bales and packages lying piled up, row above row, in Capt. Webb's capacious store-room.
Yet my work was not ended, it was but beginning; there were provisions, cooking-utensils, boats,
rope, twine, tents, donkeys, saddles, bagging, canvas, tar, needles, tools, ammunition, guns,
equipments, hatchets, medicines, bedding, presents for chiefs--in short, a thousand things
not yet purchased.  The ordeal of chaffering and -haggling with steel-hearted Banyans, Hindis,
Arabs, and half-castes was most trying.  For instance, I purchased twenty-two donkeys at Zanzibar.
$40 and $50 were asked, which I had to reduce to $15 or $20 by an infinite amount of argument
worthy, I think, of a nobler cause.  As was my experience with the ass-dealers so was it with
the petty merchants; even a paper of pins was not purchased without a five per cent. reduction
from the price demanded, involving, of course, a loss of much time and patience.

After collecting the donkeys, I discovered there were no pack-saddles to be obtained in Zanzibar.
Donkeys without pack-saddles were of no use whatever.  I invented a saddle to be manufactured
by myself and my white man Farquhar, wholly from canvas, rope, and cotton.

Three or four frasilahs of cotton, and ten bolts of canvas were required for the saddles. 
A specimen saddle was made by myself in order to test its efficiency.  A donkey was taken and
saddled, and a load of 140 lbs. was fastened to it, and though the animal--a wild creature
of Unyamwezi--struggled and reared frantic ally, not a particle gave way.  After this experiment,
Farquhar was set to work to manufacture twenty-one more after the same pattern.  Woollen pads
were also purchased to protect the animals from being galled. It ought to be mentioned here,
perhaps, that the idea of such a saddle as I manufactured, was first derived from the Otago
saddle, in use among the transport-trains of the English army in Abyssinia.

A man named John William Shaw--a native of London, England, lately third-mate of the American
ship `Nevada'--applied to me for work. Though his discharge from the `Nevada' was rather suspicious,
yet he possessed all the requirements of such a man as I needed, and was an experienced hand
with the palm and needle, could cut canvas to fit anything, was a pretty good navigator, ready
and willing, so far as his professions went..  I saw no reason to refuse his services, and
he was accordingly engaged at $300 per annum, to rank second to William L. Farquhar.  Farquhar
was a capital navigator and excellent mathematician; was strong, energetic, and clever.

The next thing I was engaged upon was to enlist, arm, and equip, a faithful escort of twenty
men for the road.  Johari, the chief dragoman of the American Consulate, informed me that he
knew where certain of Speke's "Faithfuls" were yet to be found.  The idea had struck me before,
that if I could obtain the services of a few men acquainted with the ways of white men, and
who could induce other good men to join the expedition I was organizing, I might consider myself
fortunate.  More especially had I thought of Seedy Mbarak Mombay, commonly called "Bombay,"
who though his head was "woodeny," and his hands" clumsy," was considered to be the "faithfulest"
of the "Faithfuls."

With the aid of the dragoman Johari, I secured in a few hours the services of Uledi (Capt.
Grant's former valet), Ulimengo, Baruti, Ambari, Mabruki (Muinyi Mabruki--Bull-headed Mabruki,
Capt. Burton's former unhappy valet)--five of Speke's "Faithfuls."  When I asked them if they
were willing to join another white man's expedition to Ujiji, they replied very readily that
they were willing to join any brother of "Speke's."  Dr. John Kirk, Her Majesty's Consul at
Zanzibar, who was present, told them that though I was no brother of "Speke's," I spoke his
language.  This distinction mattered little to them: and I heard them, with great delight,
declare their readiness to go anywhere with me, or do anything I wished.

Mombay, as they called him, or Bombay, as we know him, had gone to Pemba, an island lying north
of Zanzibar.  Uledi was sure Mombay would jump with joy at the prospect of another expedition.
Johari was therefore commissioned to write to him at Pemba, to inform him of the good fortune
in store for him.

On the fourth morning after the letter had been despatched, the famous Bombay made his appearance,
followed in decent order and due rank by the "Faithfuls" of "Speke."  I looked in vain for
the "woodeny head" and "alligator teeth" with which his former master had endowed him.  I saw
a slender short man of fifty or thereabouts, with a grizzled head, an uncommonly high, narrow
forehead, with a very large mouth, showing teeth very irregular, and wide apart.  An ugly rent
in the upper front row of Bombay's teeth was made with the clenched fist of Capt. Speke in
Uganda when his master's patience was worn out, and prompt punishment became necessary.  That
Capt. Speke had spoiled him with kindness was evident, from the fact that Bombay had the audacity
to stand up for a boxing-match with him.  But these things I only found out, when, months afterwards,
I was called upon to administer punishment to him myself.  But, at his first appearance, I
was favourably impressed with Bombay, though his face was rugged, his mouth large, his eyes
small, and his nose flat.

"Salaam aliekum," were the words he greeted me with.  "Aliekum salaam," I replied, with all
the gravity I could muster.  I then informed him I required him as captain of my soldiers to
Ujiji. His reply was that he was ready to do whatever I told him, go wherever I liked in short,
be a pattern to servants, and a model to soldiers.  He hoped I would give him a uniform, and
a good gun, both of which were promised.

Upon inquiring for the rest of the "Faithfuls" who accompanied Speke into Egypt, I was told
that at Zanzibar there were but six. Ferrajji, Maktub, Sadik, Sunguru, Manyu, Matajari, Mkata,
and Almas, were dead; Uledi and Mtamani were in Unyanyembe; Hassan had gone to Kilwa, and Ferahan
was supposed to be in Ujiji.

Out of the six "Faithfuls," each of whom still retained his medal for assisting in the "Discovery
of the Sources of the Nile," one, poor Mabruki, had met with a sad misfortune, which I feared
would incapacitate him from active usefulness.

Mabruki the "Bull-headed," owned a shamba (or a house with a garden attached to it), of which
he was very proud.  Close to him lived a neighbour in similar circumstances, who was a soldier
of Seyd Majid, with whom Mabruki, who was of a quarrelsome disposition, had a feud, which culminated
in the soldier inducing two or three of his comrades to assist him in punishing the malevolent
Mabruki, and this was done in a manner that only the heart of an African could conceive.  They
tied the unfortunate fellow by his wrists to a branch of a tree, and after indulging their
brutal appetite for revenge in torturing him, left him to hang in that position for two days.
At the expiration of the second day, he was accidentally discovered in a most pitiable condition.
His hands had swollen to an immense size, and the veins of one hand having been ruptured, he
had lost its use.  It is needless to say that, when the affair came to Seyd Majid's ears, the
miscreants were severely punished. Dr. Kirk, who attended the poor fellow, succeeded in restoring
one hand to something of a resemblance of its former shape, but the other hand is sadly marred,
and its former usefulness gone for ever.

However, I engaged Mabruki, despite his deformed hands, his ugliness and vanity, because he
was one of Speke's "Faithfuls."  For if he but wagged his tongue in my service, kept his eyes
open, and opened his mouth at the proper time, I assured myself I could make him useful.

Bombay, my captain of escort, succeeded in getting eighteen more free men to volunteer as "askari"
(soldiers), men whom he knew would not desert, and for whom he declared himself responsible.
They were an exceedingly fine-looking body of men, far more intelligent in appearance than
I could ever have believed African barbarians could be.  They hailed principally from Uhiyow,
others from Unyamwezi, some came from Useguhha and Ugindo.

Their wages were set down at $36 each man per annum, or $3 each per month.  Each soldier was
provided with a flintlock musket, powder horn, bullet-pouch, knife, and hatchet, besides enough
powder and ball for 200 rounds.

Bombay, in consideration of his rank, and previous faithful services to Burton, Speke and Grant,
was engaged at $80 a year, half that sum in advance, a good muzzle-loading rifle, besides,
a pistol, knife, and hatchet were given to him, while the other five "Faithfuls," Ambari, Mabruki,
Ulimengo, Baruti, and Uledi, were engaged at $40 a year, with proper equipments as soldiers.

Having studied fairly well all the East African travellers' books regarding Eastern and Central
Africa, my mind had conceived the difficulties which would present themselves during the prosecution
of my search after Dr. Livingstone.

To obviate all of these, as well as human wit could suggest, was my constant thought and aim.

"Shall I permit myself, while looking from Ujiji over the waters of the Tanganika Lake to the
other side, to be balked on the threshold of success by the insolence of a King Kannena or
the caprice of a Hamed bin Sulayyam?" was a question I asked myself.  To guard against such
a contingency I determined to carry my own boats. "Then," I thought, "if I hear of Livingstone
being on the Tanganika, I can launch my boat and proceed after him."

I procured one large boat, capable of carrying twenty persons, with stores and goods sufficient
for a cruise, from the American Consul, for the sum of $80, and a smaller one from another
American gentleman for $40.  The latter would hold comfortably six men, with suitable stores.

I did not intend to carry the boats whole or bodily, but to strip them of their boards, and
carry the timbers and thwarts only.  As a substitute for the boards, I proposed to cover each
boat with a double canvas skin well tarred.  The work of stripping them and taking them to
pieces fell to me.  This little job occupied me five days.

I also packed them up, for the pagazis.  Each load was carefully weighed, and none exceeded
68 lbs. in weight.  John Shaw excelled himself in the workmanship displayed on the canvas boats;
when finished, they fitted their frames admirably.  The canvas--six bolts of English hemp,
No. 3--was procured from Ludha Damji, who furnished it from the Sultan's storeroom.

An insuperable obstacle to rapid transit in Africa is the want of carriers, and as speed was
the main object of the Expedition under my command, my duty was to lessen this difficulty as
much as possible.  My carriers could only be engaged after arriving at Bagamoyo, on the mainland.
I had over twenty good donkeys ready, and I thought a cart adapted for the footpaths of Africa
might prove an advantage.  Accordingly I had a cart constructed, eighteen inches wide and five
feet long, supplied with two fore-wheels of a light American wagon, more for the purpose of
conveying the narrow ammunition-boxes.  I estimated that if a donkey could carry to Unyanyembe
a load of four frasilahs, or 140 lbs., he ought to be able to draw eight frasilahs on such
a cart, which would be equal to the carrying capacity of four stout pagazis or carriers.  Events
will prove, how my theories were borne out by practice.

When my purchases were completed, and I beheld them piled up, tier after tier, row upon row,
here a mass of cooking-utensils, there bundles of rope, tents, saddles, a pile of portmanteaus
and boxes, containing every imaginable thing, I confess I was rather abashed at my own temerity.
Here were at least six tons of material! "How will it ever be possible," I thought, "to move
all this inert mass across the wilderness stretching between the sea, and the great lakes of
Africa?  Bah, cast all doubts away, man, and have at them!  `Sufficient for the day is the
evil thereof,' without borrowing from the morrow."

The traveller must needs make his way into the African interior after a fashion very different
from that  to which he has been accustomed in other countries.  He requires to take with him
just what a ship must have when about to sail on a long voyage.  He must have his slop chest,
his little store of canned dainties, and his medicines, besides which, he must have enough
guns, powder, and ball to be able to make a series of good fights if necessary. He must have
men to convey these miscellaneous articles; and as a man's maximum load does not exceed 70
lbs., to convey 11,000 lbs. requires nearly  160 men.

Europe and the Orient, even Arabia and Turkestan, have royal ways of travelling compared to
Africa.  Specie is received in all those countries, by which a traveller may carry his means
about with him on his own person.  Eastern and Central Africa, however, demand a necklace,
instead of a cent; two yards of American sheeting, instead of half a dollar, or a florin, and
a kitindi of thick brass-wire, in place of a gold piece.

The African traveller can hire neither wagons nor camels, neither horses nor mules, to proceed
with him into the interior.  His means of conveyance are limited to black and naked men, who
demand at least $15 a head for every 70 lbs. weight carried only as far as Unyanyembe.

One thing amongst others my predecessors omitted to inform men bound for Africa, which is of
importance, and that is, that no traveller should ever think of coming to Zanzibar with his
money in any other shape than gold coin.  Letters of credit, circular notes, and such civilized
things I have found to be a century ahead of Zanzibar people.

Twenty and twenty-five cents deducted out of every dollar I drew on paper is one of the unpleasant,
if not unpleasantest things I have committed to lasting memory.  For Zanzibar is a spot far
removed from all avenues of European commerce, and coin is at a high premium.  A man may talk
and entreat, but though he may have drafts, cheques, circular notes, letters of credit, a carte
blanche to get what he wants, out of every dollar must, be deducted twenty, twenty-five and
thirty cents, so I was told, and so was my experience.  What a pity there is no branch-bank here!

I had intended to have gone into Africa incognito.  But the fact that a white man, even an
American, was about to enter Africa was soon known all over Zanzibar.  This fact was repeated
a thousand times in the streets, proclaimed in all shop alcoves, and at the custom-house. 
The native bazaar laid hold of it, and agitated it day and night until my departure.  The foreigners,
including the Europeans, wished to know the pros and cons of my coming in and going out.

My answer to all questions, pertinent and impertinent, was, I am going to Africa.  Though my
card bore the words

    |                                        |
    |            HENRY M.  STANLEY.          |
    |                                        |
    |                                        |
    |  New York Herald.                      |
    ||

very few, I believe, ever coupled the words `New York Herald' with a search after "Doctor Livingstone."
It was not my fault, was it?

Ah, me! what hard work it is to start an expedition alone!  What with hurrying through the
baking heat of the fierce relentless sun from shop to shop, strengthening myself with far-reaching
and enduring patience far the haggling contest with the livid-faced Hindi, summoning courage
and wit to brow-beat the villainous Goanese, and match the foxy Banyan, talking volumes throughout
the day, correcting estimates, making up accounts, superintending the delivery of purchased
articles, measuring and weighing them, to see that everything was of full measure and weight,
overseeing the white men Farquhar and Shaw, who were busy on donkey saddles, sails, tents,
and boats for the Expedition, I felt, when the day was over, as though limbs and brain well
deserved their rest. Such labours were mine unremittingly for a month.

Having bartered drafts on Mr. James Gordon Bennett to the amount of several thousand dollars
for cloth, beads, wire, donkeys, and a thousand necessaries, having advanced pay to the white
men, and black escort of the Expedition, having fretted Capt. Webb and his family more than
enough with the din of preparation, and filled his house with my goods, there was nothing further
to do but to leave my formal adieus with the Europeans, and thank the Sultan and those gentlemen
who had assisted me, before embarking for Bagamoyo.

The day before my departure from Zanzibar the American Consul, having just habited himself
in his black coat, and taking with him an extra black hat, in order to be in state apparel,
proceeded with me to the Sultan's palace.  The prince had been generous to me; he had presented
me with an Arab horse, had furnished me with letters of introduction to his agents, his chief
men, and representatives in the interior, and in many other ways had shown himself well disposed
towards me.

The palace is a large, roomy, lofty, square house close to the fort, built of coral, and plastered
thickly with lime mortar. In appearance it is half Arabic and half Italian.  The shutters are
Venetian blinds painted a vivid green, and presenting a striking contrast to the whitewashed
walls.  Before the great, lofty, wide door were ranged in two crescents several Baluch and
Persian mercenaries, armed with curved swords and targes of rhinoceros hide.  Their dress consisted
of a muddy-white cotton shirt, reaching to the ancles, girdled with a leather belt thickly
studded with silver bosses.

As we came in sight a signal was passed to some person inside the entrance.  When within twenty
yards of the door, the Sultan, who was standing waiting, came down the steps, and, passing
through the ranks, advanced toward us, with his right hand stretched out, and a genial smile
of welcome on his face.  On our side we raised our hats, and shook hands with him, after which,
doing according as he bade us, we passed forward, and arrived on the highest step near the
entrance door.  He pointed forward; we bowed and arrived at the foot of an unpainted and narrow
staircase to turn once more to the Sultan.  The Consul, I perceived, was ascending sideways,
a mode of progression which I saw was intended for a compromise with decency and dignity. 
At the top of the stairs we waited, with our faces towards the up-coming Prince.  Again we
were waved magnanimously forward, for before us was the reception-hall and throne-room.  I
noticed, as I marched forward to the furthest end, that the room was high, and painted in the
Arabic style, that the carpet was thick and of Persian fabric, that the furniture consisted
of a dozen gilt chairs and a chandelier,

We were seated; Ludha Damji, the Banyan collector of customs, a venerable-looking old man,
with a shrewd intelligent face, sat on the right of the Sultan; next to him was the great Mohammedan
merchant Tarya Topan who had come to be present at the interview, not only because he was one
of the councillors of His Highness, but because he also took a lively interest in this American
Expedition.  Opposite to Ludha sat Capt. Webb, and next to him I was seated, opposite Tarya
Topan.  The Sultan sat in a gilt chair between the Americans and the councillors.  Johari the
dragoman stood humbly before the Sultan, expectant and ready to interpret what we had to communicate
to the Prince.

The Sultan, so far as dress goes, might be taken for a Mingrelian gentleman, excepting, indeed,
for the turban, whose ample folds in alternate colours of red, yellow, brown, and white, encircled
his head.  His long robe was of dark cloth, cinctured round the waist with his rich sword-belt,
from which was suspended a gold-hilted scimitar, encased in a scabbard also enriched with gold:
His legs and feet were bare, and had a ponderous look about them, since he suffered from that
strange curse of Zanzibar--elephantiasis.  His feet were slipped into a pair of watta (Arabic
for slippers), with thick soles and a strong leathern band over the instep.  His light complexion
and his correct features, which are intelligent and regular, bespeak the Arab patrician.  They
indicate, however, nothing except his high descent and blood; no traits of character are visible
unless there is just a trace of amiability, and perfect contentment with himself and all around.

Such is Prince, or Seyd Burghash, Sultan of Zanzibar and Pemba, and the East coast of Africa,
from Somali Land to the Mozambique, as he appeared to me.

Coffee was served in cups supported by golden finjans, also some cocoa-nut milk, and rich sweet
sherbet.

The conversation began with the question addressed to the Consul.

"Are you well?"

Consul.--" Yes, thank you.  How is His Highness?"

Highness.--"Quite well!"

Highness to me.--"Are you well?"

Answer.--"Quite well, thanks!"

The Consul now introduces business; and questions about my travels follow from His Highness--

"How do you like Persia?"

"Have you seen Kerbela, Bagdad, Masr, Stamboul?"

"Have the Turks many soldiers?"

"How many has Persia?"

"Is Persia fertile?"

"How do you like Zanzibar?"

