In spite of all these theoretical--and some practical--advantages the four-stroke cycle engine
was universally adopted for aircraft work; owing to the practical equality of the two principles
of operation, so far as thermal efficiency and friction losses are concerned, there is no doubt
that the simplicity of design (in theory) and high power output to weight ratio (also in theory)
ought to have given the 'two-stroke' a place on the aeroplane. But this engine has to be developed
so as to overcome its inherent drawbacks; better scavenging methods have yet to be devised--for
this is the principal drawback--before the two-stroke can come to its own as a prime mover
for aircraft.

Mr Dugald Clerk's original two-stroke cycle engine is indicated roughly, as regards principle,
by the accompanying diagram, from which it will be seen that the elimination of the ordinary
inlet and exhaust valves of the four-stroke type is more than compensated by a separate cylinder
which, having a piston worked from the connecting-rod of the power cylinder, was used to charging,
drawing the mixture from the carburettor past the valve in the top of the charging cylinder,
and then forcing it through the connecting pipe into the power cylinder. The inlet valves both
on the charging and the power cylinders are automatic; when the power piston is near the bottom
of its stroke the piston in the charging cylinder is compressing the carburetted air, so that
as soon as the pressure within the power cylinder is relieved by the exit of the burnt gases
through the exhaust ports the pressure in the charging cylinder causes the valve in the head
of the power cylinder to open, and fresh mixture flows into the cylinder, replacing the exhaust
gases. After the piston has again covered the exhaust ports the mixture begins to be compressed,
thus automatically closing the inlet valve. Ignition occurs near the end of the compression
stroke, and the working stroke immediately follows, thus giving an impulse to the crankshaft
on every down stroke of the piston. If the scavenging of the cylinder were complete, and the
cylinder were to receive a full charge of fresh mixture for every stroke, the same mean effective
pressure as is obtained with four-stroke cycle engines ought to be realised, and at an equal
speed of rotation this engine should give twice the power obtainable from a four-stroke cycle
engine of equal dimensions. This result was not achieved, and, with the improvements in construction
brought about by experiment up to 1912, the output was found to be only about fifty per cent
more than that of a four-stroke cycle engine of the same size, so that, when the charging cylinder
is included, this engine has a greater weight per horse-power, while the lowest rate of fuel
consumption recorded was 0.68 lb. per horse-power per hour.

In 1891 Mr Day invented a two-stroke cycle engine which used the crank case as a scavenging
chamber, and a very large number of these engines have been built for industrial purposes.
The charge of carburetted air is drawn through a non-return valve into the crank chamber during
the upstroke of the piston, and compressed to about 4 lbs. pressure per square inch on the
down stroke. When the piston approaches the bottom end of its stroke the upper edge first overruns
an exhaust port, and almost immediately after uncovers an inlet port on the opposite side of
the cylinder and in communication with the crank chamber; the entering charge, being under
pressure, assists in expelling the exhaust gases from the cylinder. On the next upstroke the
charge is compressed into the combustion space of the cylinder, a further charge simultaneously
entering the crank case to be compressed after the ignition for the working stroke. To prevent
the incoming charge escaping through the exhaust ports of the cylinder a deflector is formed
on the top of the piston, causing the fresh gas to travel in an upward direction, thus avoiding
as far as possible escape of the mixture to the atmosphere. From experiments conducted in 1910
by Professor Watson and Mr Fleming it was found that the proportion of fresh gases which escaped
unburnt through the exhaust ports diminished with increase of speed; at 600 revolutions per
minute about 36 per cent of the fresh charge was lost; at 1,200 revolutions per minute this
was reduced to 20 per cent, and at 1,500 revolutions it was still farther reduced to 6 per cent.

So much for the early designs. With regard to engines of this type specially constructed for
use with aircraft, three designs call for special mention. Messrs A. Gobe and H. Diard, Parisian
engineers, produced an eight-cylindered two-stroke cycle engine of rotary design, the cylinders
being co-axial. Each pair of opposite pistons was secured together by a rigid connecting rod,
connected to a pin on a rotating crankshaft which was mounted eccentrically to the axis of
rotation of the cylinders. The crankshaft carried a pinion gearing with an internally toothed
wheel on the transmission shaft which carried the air-screw. The combustible mixture, emanating
from a common supply pipe, was led through conduits to the front ends of the cylinders, in
which the charges were compressed before being transferred to the working spaces through ports
in tubular extensions carried by the pistons. These extensions had also exhaust ports, registering
with ports in the cylinder which communicated with the outer air, and the extensions slid over
depending cylinder heads attached to the crank case by long studs. The pump charge was compressed
in one end of each cylinder, and the pump spaces each delivered into their corresponding adjacent
combustion spaces. The charges entered the pump spaces during the suction period through passages
which communicated with a central stationary supply passage at one end of the crank case, communication
being cut off when the inlet orifice to the passage passed out of register with the port in
the stationary member. The exhaust ports at the outer end of the combustion space opened just
before and closed a little later than the air ports, and the incoming charge assisted in expelling
the exhaust gases in a manner similar to that of the earlier types of two-stroke cycle engine;
The accompanying rough diagram assists in showing the working of this engine.

Exhibited in the Paris Aero Exhibition of 1912, the Laviator two-stroke cycle engine, six-cylindered,
could be operated either as a radial or as a rotary engine, all its pistons acting on a single
crank. Cylinder dimensions of this engine were 3.94 inches bore by 5.12 inches stroke, and
a power output of 50 horse-power was obtained when working at a rate of 1,200 revolutions per
minute. Used as a radial engine, it developed 65 horse-power at the same rate of revolution,
and, as the total weight was about 198 lbs., the weight of about 3 lbs. per horse-power was
attained in radial use. Stepped pistons were employed, the annular space between the smaller
or power piston and the walls of the larger cylinder being used as a charging pump for the
power cylinder situated 120 degrees in rear of it. The charging cylinders were connected by
short pipes to ports in the crank case which communicated with the hollow crankshaft through
which the fresh gas was supplied, and once in each revolution each port in the case registered
with the port in the hollow shaft. The mixture which then entered the charging cylinder was
transferred to the corresponding working cylinder when the piston of that cylinder had reached
the end of its power stroke, and immediately before this the exhaust ports diametrically opposite
the inlet ports were uncovered; scavenging was thus assisted in the usual way. The very desirable
feature of being entirely valveless was accomplished with this engine, which is also noteworthy
for exceedingly compact design.

The Lamplough six-cylinder two-stroke cycle rotary, shown at the Aero Exhibition at Olympia
in 1911, had several innovations, including a charging pump of rotary blower type. With the
six cylinders, six power impulses at regular intervals were given on each rotation; otherwise,
the cycle of operations was carried out much as in other two-stroke cycle engines. The pump
supplied the mixture under slight pressure to an inlet port in each cylinder, which was opened
at the same time as the exhaust port, the period of opening being controlled by the piston.
The rotary blower sucked the mixture from the carburettor and delivered it to a passage communicating
with the inlet ports in the cylinder walls. A mechanically-operated exhaust valve was placed
in the centre of each cylinder head, and towards the end of the working stroke this valve opened,
allowing part of the burnt gases to escape to the atmosphere; the remainder was pushed out
by the fresh mixture going in through the ports at the bottom end of the cylinder. In practice,
one or other of the cylinders was always taking fresh mixture while working, therefore the
delivery from the pump was continuous and the mixture had not to be stored under pressure.

The piston of this engine was long enough to keep the ports covered when it was at the top
of the stroke, and a bottom ring was provided to prevent the mixture from entering the crank
case. In addition to preventing leakage, this ring no doubt prevented an excess of oil working
up the piston into the cylinder. As the cylinder fired with every revolution, the valve gear
was of the simplest construction, a fixed cam lifting each valve as the cylinder came into
position. The spring of the exhaust valve was not placed round the stem in the usual way, but
at the end of a short lever, away from the heat of the exhaust gases. The cylinders were of
cast steel, the crank case of aluminium, and ball-bearings were fitted to the crankshaft, crank
pins, and the rotary blower pump. Ignition was by means of a high-tension magneto of the two-spark
pattern, and with a total weight of 300 lbs. the maximum output was 102 brake horse-power,
giving a weight of just under 3 lbs. per horse-power.

One of the most successful of the two-stroke cycle engines was that designed by Mr G. F. Mort
and constructed by the New Engine Company. With four cylinders of 3.69 inches bore by 4.5 inches
stroke, and running at 1,250 revolutions per minute, this engine developed 50 brake horse-power;
the total weight of the engine was 155 lbs., thus giving a weight of 3.1 lbs. per horse-power.
A scavenging pump of the rotary type was employed, driven by means of gearing from the engine
crankshaft, and in order to reduce weight to a minimum the vanes were of aluminium. This engine
was tried on a biplane, and gave very satisfactory results.

American design yields two apparently successful two-stroke cycle aero engines. A rotary called
the Fredericson engine was said to give an output of 70 brake horse-power with five cylinders
4.5 inches diameter by 4.75 inches stroke, running at 1,000 revolutions per minute. Another,
the Roberts two-stroke cycle engine, yielded 100 brake horse-power from six cylinders of the
stepped piston design; two carburettors, each supplying three cylinders, were fitted to this
engine. Ignition was by means of the usual high-tension magneto, gear-driven from the crankshaft,
and the engine, which was water-cooled, was of compact design.

It may thus be seen that the two-stroke cycle type got as far as actual experiment in air work,
and that with considerable success. So far, however, the greater reliability of the four-stroke
cycle has rendered it practically the only aircraft engine, and the two-stroke has yet some
way to travel before it becomes a formidable competitor, in spite of its admitted theoretical
and questioned practical advantages.

VII. ENGINES OF THE WAR PERIOD

The principal engines of British, French, and American design used in the war period and since
are briefly described under the four distinct types of aero engine; such notable examples as
the Rolls-Royce, Sunbeam, and Napier engines have been given special mention, as they embodied--and
still embody--all that is best in aero engine practice. So far, however, little has been said
about the development of German aero engine design, apart from the early Daimler and other
pioneer makes.

At the outbreak of hostilities in 1914, thanks to subsidies to contractors and prizes to aircraft
pilots, the German aeroplane industry was in a comparatively flourishing condition. There were
about twenty-two establishments making different types of heavier-than-air machines, monoplane
and biplane, engined for the most part with the four-cylinder Argus or the six-cylinder Mercedes
vertical type engines, each of these being of 100 horse-power--it was not till war brought
increasing demands on aircraft that the limit of power began to rise. Contemporary with the
Argus and Mercedes were the Austro-Daimler, Benz, and N.A.G., in vertical design, while as
far as rotary types were concerned there were two, the Oberursel and the Stahlhertz; of these
the former was by far the most promising, and it came to virtual monopoly of the rotary-engined
plane as soon as the war demand began. It was practically a copy of the famous Gnome rotary,
and thus deserves little description.

Germany, from the outbreak of war, practically, concentrated on the development of the Mercedes
engine; and it is noteworthy that, with one exception, increase of power corresponding with
the increased demand for power was attained without increasing the number of cylinders. The
various models ranged between 75 and 260 horse-power, the latter being the most recent production
of this type. The exception to the rule was the eight-cylinder 240 horse-power, which was replaced
by the 260 horse-power six-cylinder model, the latter being more reliable and but very slightly
heavier. Of the other engines, the 120 horsepower Argus and the 160 and 225 horse-power Benz
were the most used, the Oberursel being very largely discarded after the Fokker monoplane had
had its day, and the N.A.G. and Austro-Daimler Daimler also falling to comparative disuse.
It may be said that the development of the Mercedes engine contributed very largely to such
success as was achieved in the war period by German aircraft, and, in developing the engine,
the builders were careful to make alterations in such a way as to effect the least possible
change in the design of aeroplane to which they were to be fitted. Thus the engine base of
the 175 horse-power model coincided precisely with that of the 150 horse-power model, and the
200 and 240 horse-power models retained the same base dimensions. It was estimated, in 1918,
that well over eighty per cent of German aircraft was engined with the Mercedes type.

In design and construction, there was nothing abnormal about the Mercedes engine, the keynote
throughout being extreme reliability and such simplification of design as would permit of mass
production in different factories. Even before the war, the long list of records set up by
this engine formed practical application of the wisdom of this policy; Bohn's flight of 24
hours 10 minutes, accomplished on July 10th and 11th, 1914, 9is an instance of this--the flight
was accomplished on an Albatross biplane with a 75 horsepower Mercedes engine. The radial type,
instanced in other countries by the Salmson and Anzani makes, was not developed in Germany;
two radial engines were made in that country before the war, but the Germans seemed to lose
faith in the type under war conditions, or it may have been that insistence on standardisation
ruled out all but the proved examples of engine.

Details of one of the middle sizes of Mercedes motor, the 176 horse-power type, apply very
generally to the whole range; this size was in use up to and beyond the conclusion of hostilities,
and it may still be regarded as characteristic of modern (1920) German practice. The engine
is of the fixed vertical type, has six cylinders in line, not off-set, and is water-cooled.
The cam shaft is carried in a special bronze casing, seated on the immediate top of the cylinders,
and a vertical shaft is interposed between crankshaft and camshaft, the latter being driven
by bevel gearing.

On this vertical connecting-shaft the water pump is located, serving to steady the motion of
the shaft. Extending immediately below the camshaft is another vertical shaft, driven by bevel
gears from the crank-shaft, and terminating in a worm which drives the multiple piston oil pumps.

The cylinders are made from steel forgings, as are the valve chamber elbows, which are machined
all over and welded together. A jacket of light steel is welded over the valve elbows and attached
to a flange on the cylinders, forming a water-cooling space with a section of about 7/16 of
an inch. The cylinder bore is 5.5 inches, and the stroke 6.29 inches. The cylinders are attached
to the crank case by means of dogs and long through bolts, which have shoulders near their
lower ends and are bolted to the lower half of the crank chamber. A very light and rigid structure
is thus obtained, and the method of construction won the flattery of imitation by makers of
other nationality.

The cooling system for the cylinders is extremely efficient. After leaving the water pump,
the water enters the top of the front cylinders and passes successively through each of the
six cylinders of the row; short tubes, welded to the tops of the cylinders, serve as connecting
links in the system. The Panhard car engines for years were fitted with a similar cooling system,
and the White and Poppe lorry engines were also similarly fitted; the system gives excellent
cooling effect where it is most needed, round the valve chambers and the cylinder heads.

The pistons are built up from two pieces; a dropped forged steel piston head, from which depend
the piston pin bosses, is combined with a cast-iron skirt, into which the steel head is screwed.
Four rings are fitted, three at the upper and one at the lower end of the piston skirt, and
two lubricating oil grooves are cut in the skirt, in addition to the ring grooves. Two small
rivets retain the steel head on the piston skirt after it has been screwed into position, and
it is also welded at two points. The coefficient of friction between the cast-iron and steel
is considerably less than that which would exist between two steel parts, and there is less
tendency for the skirt to score the cylinder walls than would be the case if all steel were
used--so noticeable is this that many makers, after giving steel pistons a trial, discarded
them in favour of cast-iron; the Gnome is an example of this, being originally fitted with
a steel piston carrying a brass ring, discarded in favour of a cast-iron piston with a percentage
of steel in the metal mixture. In the Le Rhone engine the difficulty is overcome by a cast-iron
liner to the cylinders.

The piston pin of the Mercedes is of chrome nickel steel, and is retained in the piston by
means of a set screw and cotter pin. The connecting rods, of I section, are very short and
rigid, carrying floating bronze bushes which fit the piston pins at the small end, and carrying
an oil tube on each for conveying oil from the crank pin to the piston pin.

The crankshaft is of chrome nickel steel, carried on seven bearings. Holes are drilled through
each of the crank pins and main bearings, for half the diameter of the shaft, and these are
plugged with pressed brass studs. Small holes, drilled through the crank cheeks, serve to convey
lubricant from the main bearings to the crank pins. The propeller thrust is taken by a simple
ball thrust bearing at the propeller end of the crankshaft, this thrust bearing being seated
in a steel retainer which is clamped between the two halves of the crank case. At the forward
end of the crankshaft there is mounted a master bevel gear on six splines; this bevel floats
on the splines against a ball thrust bearing, and, in turn, the thrust is taken by the crank
case cover. A stuffing box prevents the loss of lubricant out of the front end of the crank
chamber, and an oil thrower ring serves a similar purpose at the propeller end of the crank
chamber.

With a motor speed of 1,450 r.p.m., the vertical shaft at the forward end of the motor turns
at 2,175 r.p.m., this being the speed of the two magnetos and the water pump. The lower vertical
shaft bevel gear and the magneto driving gear are made integral with the vertical driving shaft,
which is carried in plain bearings in an aluminium housing. This housing is clamped to the
upper half of the crank case by means of three studs. The cam-shaft carries eighteen cams,
these being the inlet and exhaust cams, and a set of half compression cams which are formed
with the exhaust cams and are put into action when required by means of a lever at the forward
end of the cam-shaft. The cam-shaft is hollow, and serves as a channel for the conveyance of
lubricating oil to each of the camshaft bearings. At the forward end of this shaft there is
also mounted an air pump for maintaining pressure on the fuel supply tank, and a bevel gear
tachometer drive.

Lubrication of the engine is carried out by a full pressure system. The oil is pumped through
a single manifold, with seven branches to the crankshaft main bearings, and then in turn through
the hollow crankshaft to the connecting-rod big ends and thence through small tubes, already
noted, to the small end bearings. The oil pump has four pistons and two double valves driven
from a single eccentric shaft on which are mounted four eccentrics. The pump is continuously
submerged in oil; in order to avoid great variations in pressure in the oil lines there is
a piston operated pressure regulator, cut in between the pump and the oil lines. The two small
pistons of the pump take fresh oil from a tank located in the fuselage of the machine; one
of these delivers oil to the cam shaft, and one delivers to the crankshaft; this fresh oil
mixes with the used oil, returns to the base, and back to the main large oil pump cylinders.
By means of these small pump pistons a constant quantity of oil is kept in the motor, and the
oil is continually being freshened by means of the new oil coming in. All the oil pipes are
very securely fastened to the lower half of the crank case, and some cooling of the oil is
effected by air passing through channels cast in the crank case on its way to the carburettor.

A light steel manifold serves to connect the exhaust ports of the cylinders to the main exhaust
pipe, which is inclined about 25 degrees from vertical and is arranged to give on to the atmosphere
just over the top of the upper wing of the aeroplane.

As regards carburation, an automatic air valve surrounds the throat of the carburettor, maintaining
normal composition of mixture. A small jet is fitted for starting and running without load.
The channels cast in the crank chamber, already alluded to in connection with oil-cooling,
serve to warm the air before it reaches the carburettor, of which the body is water-jacketed.

