Saying this, poor Roque withdrew, weeping and wondering, and imploring the protection of all
the saints in the calendar, for his unfortunate master.

CHAPTER XI.

    Voilà le précipice où l'ont enfin jeté
    Les attraits enchanteurs de la prospérité.

                                La Fontaine.

                Oh di destino avverso
    Fatal possanza! a mie tante sventure
    Ciò sol mancava.

                                Alfieri.

    Forget! forgive!--I must indeed forget
    When I forgive.

                                Southern.

Every hope was now extinct--the fatal morning arrived. Theodora, the hapless Theodora, against
whom fate seemed to have exhausted all her malice, after a night of restless grief, had left
her couch betimes, and in a gloomy reverie was sitting by the casement, her hands clasped together,
and her eyes vacantly fixed on the moving groups below.

The door opened, and her father entered--the wretched man was in a most pitiable state.

"My child," he said, tenderly, "my dear child, you must leave this place."

"Never," cried the melancholy Theodora, "unless it is to be carried to the grave. Oh! my poor,
my dear father, you will soon have to fulfil that last mournful duty towards your hapless child."

"Theodora, speak not thus; your words are daggers. We must submit to the will of Providence--raise
your streaming eyes to that heaven, my beloved, and cherish the fond hope that this life of
sorrow is to purchase an eternity of pure uninterrupted bliss. Throw yourself into the arms
of religion, and your evils will appear lighter to bear."

"Yes, my father, now my only friend," replied Theodora, in a tumult of agony, "I will consider
my misfortunes as a just atonement to offended heaven, for the ingratitude of which I have
been guilty towards the best of parents."

"Heaven bless thee, Theodora," returned the affectionate father, "and restore to thee peace
and tranquillity; and now grant me a request--you must away with me."

"But whither are we going?" demanded Theodora, "I cannot--I will not quit Granada until I see
him laid in the ground. I am now his wife, and I shall religiously fulfil the duties of such
a character, for cruel as he was," she added, mournfully, "to refuse me permission to see him
when alive, he cannot prevent me from showing my attachment when he is dead."

"Theodora," said Monteblanco, "it is not my intention to take you away from Granada. I merely
wish you to accompany me to the dwelling of our kinsman, Don Antonio de Leyva. He has repeatedly
demanded to see you, but you have always denied his request. You surely cannot dislike him?"

"Father! father!" cried Theodora, in a tone of reproach and sadness; "why this eagerness to
renew an intimacy with a man whom I have wronged? Think you that Theodora will be able to sustain
his reproach?"

"No, Theodora, such thoughts are far from the minds of Don Antonio and your father. But the
gallant young man lies prostrate on the bed of sickness. The wounds he received at the disastrous
affair of the Sierra Bermeja, have reduced him to the last stage of debility. He has this very
instant earnestly requested to see you; for he has something to announce which may affect the
fate of us all."

Theodora answered not, but rising immediately, signified her readiness to obey, and supported
by her father, she proceeded towards the residence of Don Antonio. Dismay and confusion reigned
throughout the city. At every step Theodora met with some object to impress her forcibly with
the dreariness of the fate which was at hand. Busily the moving groups were talking of the
melancholy event. She beheld the troops that were collecting and marching about to insure the
public tranquillity, and this testimony of the hopeless situation of her husband filled her
bursting heart with new terrors. How dismally sounded the trumpets and clarions! And now the
ponderous bell of the cathedral sent forth its reverberating tones, and it sounded like the
summons of death to Theodora. It struck eight, and in two hours Gomez Arias would cease to
exist. A chill seized on the very soul of Theodora, at each stroke of the dreadful monitor,
and as if its terrors had not been sufficiently multiplied, a hundred different clocks, with
their boding voices, repeated the same sad tale to the agonizing heart of the wretched girl.

Next came the sight of the ministers of religion hurrying about; sad heralds of mortality,
in Christian charity, earnestly wishing to offer their prayers for the departing soul, or holding
out the example of the approaching execution to the young and inexperienced.

Theodora shuddered at every object she saw--at every sound that struck her ear, and in this
state she reached the mansion of Don Antonio de Leyva, which happily was situated at a short
distance. She trembled with emotion as she found herself before young De Leyva, nor was her
appearance productive of less astonishment to Don Antonio. They were both much altered--she
by intense suffering--he by his wounds and lingering sickness. Don Antonio, extremely faint,
was reclining on a couch, from which he attempted to rise when he saw his kinsman enter, but
was prevented by Monteblanco. The countenance of the gallant young man seemed suddenly to brighten
up.

"Theodora," he kindly said, "tremble not thus, for you are in the presence of a friend, a sincere
friend; one who bitterly laments having, though unconsciously, been instrumental in your misfortunes.
Alas! dear lady, had you placed more confidence in me, perchance so much misery had been prevented.
However, this is no time for reproach; the moments speed swiftly away, and we have none to
spare. Had you not at this moment arrived, weak and wounded as I am, I was about to be carried
to your habitation, though the exertion had proved fatal to my recovery. Theodora, look upon
me as a friend--as a dear valued friend, and receive the greatest proof a man can give of pure
disinterested regard. Here," he then added, presenting a little casket to Theodora, "take this
precious gage; look, it is the portrait of our Queen, given by her own royal hands, when fortune
favoured my exertions in the last tournament. The bearer of this gift is entitled to claim
any boon from Isabella. Dispatch--present her with this beauteous copy of herself. Reclaim
the promise--demand the life of Gomez Arias--it will be granted."

"Merciful heavens!" cried Theodora, overpowered with emotion, "Can it be possible!" Then falling
at the feet of young de Leyva--"Generous--generous Don Antonio; is this the way that you repay
an injury?"

"I might," replied Don Antonio nobly, "satisfy the cravings of a paltry revenge, by leaving
my rival to perish ignominiously, when I have it in my power to save him. But no; my heart
shudders at such reprisals, and finds joy in contributing to the happiness of Theodora."

Struck with admiration at such noble and manly conduct, Theodora seized the hand of the high-minded
Don Antonio, and would have imprinted on it a thousand kisses of gratitude, but he modestly
prevented her, urging her to depart.

"My dear Theodora, begone; you have no time to lose. Think that the least delay may perhaps
prove fatal."

These words acted like magic on the mind of Theodora. The thought of her husband's danger absorbed
every other consideration. She rushed with impetuous alacrity towards the palace, pressing
with convulsive firmness the valuable pledge on which all her hopes depended. Upon her arrival
at the entrance, the guards, struck with the wildness of her manner, and sympathising with
her misfortunes, expeditiously opened a passage, as she exclaimed almost incoherently, that
she must see the queen.

Meantime the Plaza de Bivarrambla was thronged with a vast multitude, for the novelty and exemplary
justice of such an execution had thrown the people into a ferment. It was long since a nobleman
had suffered thus, and no instance occurred to their recollection of a conqueror stepping from
the car of victory to the platform of a scaffold.

All lamented the fate of Gomez Arias, and yet most of the lower classes, amidst the feelings
of pity, experienced a kind of satisfaction at the idea that so great a personage was doomed
to suffer, as well as the meanest of their own class. In the middle of the Plaza rose a high
scaffold, covered with costly black velvet, and most of the houses around were likewise draperied
with mourning symbols of the sorrow of their owners. A strong body of veterans lined the square,
whilst other detached parties of horse patrolled the neighbouring places to prevent any obstruction
from the multitude. The hurry and agitation of the people now became extreme; but when at last
the tremendous knell from the cathedral gave the mournful signal for Gomez Arias to set out
for the goal of his mortal career, a simultaneous murmur of horror rose from the surrounding
crowd. The dismal tolling of bells, accompanied at intervals by the sad and hollow strains
of trumpets, announced that the procession was ready to move.

Gomez Arias had descended from his apartment perfectly composed. Indeed, no other feeling could
be descried in his features but stern pride and resentment. He walked with a firm step towards
the melancholy train that awaited him. But when about to mount his horse, he perceived the
Countess de Tendilla bathed in tears, approaching to bid him farewell. He kindly thanked this
lady for all the attentions he had experienced at her house during the time he had remained
there, and having bidden her a last adieu, he bounded on his favorite charger. The spirited
animal began to curvet and rear, as if proud of his burthen.

"Gently, gently, Babieca," said his master, caressing the noble steed: "be not impatient, for
this is the last time thou wilt carry thy master."

He then looked around, and as he saw a party of his victorious troops, chosen for his escort
according to his desire, all plunged in the deepest grief, in a soothing tone he bade them
be of good cheer.

Don Lope being determined to set at defiance every appearance of despondency, had assumed an
air of martial and dignified composure. His handsome figure never looked to greater advantage
than at this disastrous moment; he was attired in a most sumptuous suit, while all the friends
and relatives who accompanied him were habited in deep mourning. The procession moved slowly
on amidst the confused murmur of the multitude, deeply lamenting the fate, and admiring the
firmness of the hero of the dismal tragedy. He was attended by a crowd of the ministers of
religion; but two friars of the order of St. Francis attached themselves more particularly
to his person. The whole presented a most singularly contrasted scene; for in the same view
appeared mingled all the panoplies of war, stirring the soul to martial deeds, and the solemn
emblems of religion inviting the mind to abandon the pomp of the world, and turn its thoughts
towards eternity. Warriors and priests, banners and crosses, moved promiscuously along, while
the subdued blast of clarions united their strains to the deep-toned and gloomy cadences of
the chaunting monks.

In this manner the procession reached at length the Plaza de Bivarrambla. At the sight of the
scaffold, Gomez Arias gave an involuntary start, for he was unable to stifle the impression
which the first view of that dreadful spot made on his mind. He soon, however, recovered his
usual composure, and cast an inquiring and intense look on the assembled multitude. Sorrow
and consternation were every where visible, but all was tranquil and quiet. The last lingering
hope now vanished from the breast of Gomez Arias, and he seemed resigned to the fate that awaited
him. The murmur of the multitude was hushed into a deadly silence. Don Lope dismounted, ascended
the scaffold, and turning to his soldiers, he said--

"Farewell, my brave companions; this is the last expedition in which we shall meet; but in
this, as well as in all the former, Gomez Arias will display the coolness and courage which
becomes a soldier." He then with equal resolution was about to bare his neck for the fatal
stroke, when a piercing scream was heard at a distance in the crowd. Presently a female form
was seen flying towards the scaffold--

"A pardon! a pardon!" shouted various voices; and the multitude joyfully opened a passage to
the unfortunate. She ran with frantic speed, until she arrived at length, exhausted, at the
foot of the scaffold, exhibiting in the disorder of her person and the wild expression of her
features, all the workings of terror, anxiety, and joy. Every one stood mute with astonishment
when they beheld in this apparition the wretched Theodora, who flew up the steps of the scaffold,
holding aloft in her trembling hand a paper; then throwing herself into the arms of her husband--

"Oh it is not too late," she cried eagerly; "I have brought your pardon. Here! here! You are
safe--it is the Queen's signet."

Count de Tendilla took the paper from her hand, and read joyfully aloud the pardon of Gomez
Arias. Theodora looked wildly around, her large beautiful eyes fraught with terror: she gazed
upon the appalling scene, as though still fearful that the execution would not be suspended.

"Read! read!" she cried vehemently to Count de Tendilla: "it is the Queen's order. A messenger
will soon arrive; but I am here first. I came to save my husband."

These few electric words were followed by a shout of tumultuous applause from the assembled throng.

The messenger indeed arrived. Theodora uttered a wild scream of joy, and her feelings, unable
any longer to support the efforts she had made, overpowered her, and she fainted in the arms
of Gomez Arias.

Even Gomez Arias, that man so hardened to all the tender pleadings of gratitude, was at length
overcome. As he beheld her who had returned his coldness with affection, and repaid his cruelty
with kindness--as he considered that miracle of love and goodness lying lifeless in his arms,
a tear stood trembling in his eye--one solitary tear; but that testimonial of feeling in Gomez
Arias was equivalent to years of sorrow in other men. He tenderly pressed Theodora to his heart,
and the fond embrace seemed to recall her suspended animation. She opened her languid eyes
and was happy; for she saw the object of all her care and affection now watching with tender
solicitude her returning life.

"Oh Theodora," cried Don Lope, in a voice almost inarticulate with emotion, "I am unworthy
of you. How can I ever atone for so many wrongs? This is indeed a noble vengeance."

The queen had ordered that Gomez Arias should be conducted to her presence, and accordingly,
accompanied by the happy Theodora, he proceeded towards the palace, followed by the immense
crowd, who rent the air with joyful acclamations.

When they arrived at the palace, they found the gracious Isabella seated in the large public
hall, ready to receive them. Her countenance was radiant with delight in the consciousness
of having been able to save Don Lope from an untimely end.

