The fogs on our coast are a great impediment in the way of navigation. They screen from view
the lighthouses in the night, and the headlands in the daytime, and are often the cause of
perplexity and dismay even to the most skilful navigator, and have led to the destruction of
thousands of vessels. The philosopher, who, stimulated by the spirit which led Professor Espy
to attempt to control the storms, change the density of the atmosphere, and produce rain in
times of drought, should succeed in placing in the hands of the navigator the means of dispelling
fogs at will when navigating a dangerous coast, would indeed be a benefactor to sailors, and
deserve the richest tribute of gratitude.

As we approached the shores of Massachusetts, having been six weeks at sea, every person on
board was anxious to obtain a sight of land once more, notwithstanding our vessel was stanch
and strong and our provisions and water abundant. There is always a pleasant excitement among
a ship's company at the prospect of soon terminating a voyage. We drew towards Cape Cod, and
one night when the soundings indicated that we were not far from the shore, a good look-out
was kept from the topsail yard for the light; but no light was visible through the night. Soon
after daybreak, the LIGHTHOUSE, right ahead, was plainly seen from the deck with the naked
eye, being not more than five or six miles off. Whether the light had been allowed to expire
through inattention on the part of an unfaithful keeper, or a thick haze had collected over
the land and veiled it from the view of vessels in the offing, as was suggested by some good-natured
individuals, was never known.

All was now bustle and excitement. The land was in sight; the "highlands of Cape Cod" were
plainly visible; the wind was north-east, and every thing indicated that we should be safely
anchored in Boston harbor, or hauled snugly in, alongside the wharf, before another night.

It is pleasant to witness the exuberance of spirits on such an occasion. Orders were promptly
obeyed; every man moved as if he had been suddenly endued with a double portion of strength
and activity; smiles lighted up every countenance; the joke and the laugh went round, and even
Cato, the philosophic African, as he stood near his camboose and gazed earnestly on the barren
sands, clapped his hands with glee, exhibited a store of ivory which would have excited the
admiration of an elephant. Even the old brig seemed to participate in the joyousness that pervaded
the ship's company, and glided along smoothly and rapidly, gracefully and merrily, as if conscious
that a quiet haven and a snug resting place were at hand.

Passing Race Point we soon came in sight of the "south shore" of Massachusetts By, the land
hallowed by the trials and sufferings of the Pilgrims. We passed near Cohasset Rocks, dangers,
which, it is well known, have caused the destruction of many a noble ship and in full view
of Boston lighthouse we received a pilot on board.

Pilots should be a happy as well as a useful class of men. When a ship arrives at the entrance
of a harbor, after a long passage, the sight of a pilot carries joy to every heart. He appears
truly in the guise of "a guide, philosopher, and friend," is warmly welcomed, and treated with
kindness and hospitality. The news is eagerly demanded, friends are inquired for, and the words
which fall from his lips are attentively listened to, carefully noted, and prized as highly
as the sayings of the Delphic oracles.

