"I never saw such slackness. What good do you imagine you men will be in the trenches, if you
can't last out a short game of rugger like this? I don't know what the school is coming to!"

The side, which had never been good, got worse daily. As a captain, the younger Akerman was
a nonentity. Buller was captain of the side in everything but name.

"You know, Foster," said Gordon one Saturday evening after a more than usually dreary performance,
"these uppers are getting about the ruddy limit."

"Have you taken all this time to find that out?" growled Foster. "I used to like footer once.
Last year we had a good time on those Colts games. Of course the old buffalo lost his hair
a good deal, but the games were level at any rate. I can see no sort of fun in winning every
time by forty points. Why can't we have pick-up games, so as to get level sides."

"I suppose 'the Bull' wants to get the side working together."

"Perhaps he does; but why, if there are going to be no matches till half-way through November?
The Downside match is four weeks off, and till then we have to continue this silly farce twice
a week. And, after all, it does not teach us defence in the least. Our three-quarter men have
not to do any collaring. If we run up against a side that is any use at attack, we shall be
hopelessly dished."

"I think we shall be dished anyhow. And I am damned if I care much. Buller has knocked all
the keenness out of me, and the rest of the side say the same thing. Do you know, I actually
look forward to Corps parade day."

"The same with me. I am fed to death with footer."

"Still we are having a jolly good time off the field."

"Are we?"

"Oh, yes; we are prefects; we haven't got to do any work, and it's interesting coaching the kids."

Foster looked dubiously at him. He had no side to coach. He also had to do some work for his
Sandhurst exam. next term. But Gordon's crown was as yet too fresh to feel the tarnishing damp
of disappointment.

       *       *       *       *       *

October went by with its red-gold leaves and amber sunlight. November swept in bringing a procession
of long evenings and flickering lights. The first boom of the war fever died down. The Fifteen
played listlessly, Upper followed Upper. Puntabout followed puntabout. No one cared who was
in the side. Foster was left out--and thanked heaven!

"I am about sick of being cursed off my feet, and told I shall be no good in the trenches because
I miss my passes. 'The Bull' has gone war-mad."

Gordon had to keep in the side; it would not do for the House captain to get a reputation for
slackness. His play lacked its old fire and dash, but was still good enough to earn him his
place. He knew he was going off; that he was not nearly so good as he had been the year before;
the thought worried him. But still A-K Junior was doing very well.

One Saturday evening there came the sound of thumping feet down the passage, someone banged
himself against the door, and a well-known voice was shouting:

"Hullo, Caruthers, my lad!"

Gordon swung round to find Mansell, with out-stretched hand, looking magnificent in the top-boots
and spurs of the R.F.A.

"Come in. Sit down. By Jove! this is like old times. I must call up Archie! Archie!... Here's
someone to see you."

Mansell was just the same as he had been a year ago, a little older, a little stronger, a little
more the man of the world. He was full of stories; how his men had nearly mutinied because
they thought their separation allowance insufficient; how he had chased deserters half across
England; how he had taken the pretty waitress at the café to the music hall.

"It's life, that's what it is! I never knew what life was till I went to Bournemouth. Oh, my
God, we do have a time! Damned hard work, of course, but we do have a time in the evenings!
My lord, I nearly put my foot in it the other night. I saw the devil of a smart girl walking
down the street, and I could have sworn I knew her. I went up and said: 'Coming for a stroll?'
O Lord, you should have seen her turn round. I thought she would fetch a policeman. And we
have a jolly good footer side, too. We fairly smashed the S.W.B. last week. Oh, it's grand.
But, still, I suppose you are not having a bad time here. It's good to see you lads again."

On the next day Mansell stood an enormous tea in the games study. Everyone of any importance
came. The gramophone played, songs were sung. Never was there seen so much food before. Mansell
seemed like a Greek god who had for a moment descended to earth to reveal a glimpse of what
Olympus was like.

Gordon went down and saw him off by the five-forty-five.

"My word! I envy you, Mansell," he said.

"I shouldn't. I often wish I was back again in the House. All those old days with Claremont
and Trundle, the footer; and all that. We had a darned fine time. Make the most of it while
you've got it."

As Gordon walked back alone, he had the unpleasant feeling that the best was over, that the
days of ragging, of footer, of Claremont, of Trundle had gone beyond recall. The friends of
his first term, Hunter, Lovelace, Mansell, they had all gone, scattered to the winds. He alone
remained, and with a sudden pain he wondered whether he had not outlived his day, whether,
like Tithonus, he was not taking more than he had been meant to take. But then, as he walked
through the small gateway, and majestically wandered up the Chief's drive, he reflected that,
even if his splendour was a lonely one, without the laughter and comradeship he could have
wished for, yet it was none the less a splendour. He must hold on. As Mansell had said, he
must make the best of it while he had it.

A small boy came up nervously.

"Please, Caruthers, may I have leave off games for a week? I have had a bad foot."

"Did Matron say so?"

"Oh yes."

"All right, then."

He walked up the stairs to his study, smiling to himself. What had he been fretting himself
about? He had his power. He had the things he had wanted.

    "Is it not brave to be a king?
    Is it not passing brave to be a king
    And ride in triumph through Persepolis?"

Marlowe had been right, Marlowe with the pagan soul that loved material things, glitter and
splendour, crowns and roses, red lips and gleaming arms.

    "A god is not so glorious as a king ...
    To ask and have, command and be obeyed."

And there was no doubt he was a king. He must make the best of his kingdom while he held it.

CHAPTER II: SETTING STARS

The same atmosphere of monotonous depression that overhung football soon began to affect the
military side of school life as well. At first there had been the spur of novelty. The substitution
of platoon drill for the old company routine and the frequent field days led to keenness. But
even the most energetic get weary of doing exactly the same thing three times a week. There
are only three different formations in platoon drill, which anyone can learn in half-an-hour;
and the days were long past when Gordon's extraordinary commands would form his platoon into
an impossible rabble that could only be extricated by the ungrammatical but effective command
that School House section commanders had used from the first day of militarism: "As you did ought."

Those days were over. No mistakes. For thirty-five minutes every Monday, Wednesday and Friday
the School House platoon would move round the courts in lifeless and perfect formation. And
by now the School had begun to suspect that the field days were conducted mainly to satisfy
Rogers's inordinate conceit. His house had always the advantage. The limit of endurance was
reached one day early in November, when Rogers took his house out to defend Babylon Hill against
the rest of the corps.

The attack was really rather brilliant. Babylon Hill overlooks the country for miles. There
was a splendid field of fire. It was a boiling hot day. Rogers's men lay happily on the hill
firing spasmodically at khaki figures crawling up the long valley. Their position seemed impregnable.

Early in the proceedings, however, Ferrers, who was conducting the attack, sent Betteridge
with the School House platoon on an enormous detour to bring in a flank attack. If successful
the School House platoon would be quite sufficient to wipe out the defence, and Rogers would
never notice their loss, as they were sent off at a moment when the attack was crossing some
dead ground.

Forlorn hopes occasionally come off, and, by a fluke, at the very moment when the attack surged
over the crest of the hill, Betteridge's exhausted platoon, with shouts and cheers, burst into
Rogers's flank. There was not the slightest doubt that the defence had been cut to pieces.

For a minute or two Rogers looked perplexed at the sea of enemies. Then with customary urbanity
he told Ferrers to form up his men and seat them on the ground, while he gave his impression
of the day's work.

"I think the attack was quite satisfactory. Of course, it stood little chance against the well-organised
defence for which I myself was in a way responsible. I believe most of the forces would have
been destroyed coming up the hill. But I think the day had a good effect on the morale of the
troops. Now morale----" He enlarged on the qualities of morale and discipline for about ten
minutes, and concluded with the following courteous reference to the School House flanking
movement:--

"I could not clearly discern what those persons were doing who came up on my left. They would
have been entirely wiped out. I considered it somewhat foolish."

A contemptuous titter broke from the School House platoon, in which amusement and annoyance
were equally mixed.

"What is the good of trying at all?" said Gordon at tea that night. "There were we, sweating
over ploughed fields, banging through fences, racing up beastly paths, and then that mouthing
prelate says 'rather silly'! What's the use of trying?"

"There is none," said Betteridge. "I am going to conduct this platoon in future on different
lines. 'Evil be thou my good,' as the lad Milton said. We will be unorthodox, original and
rebellious."

A few days later, Gordon and Rudd saw displayed in a boot-shop window a wondrous collection
of coloured silk shoe-laces.

"Does anyone really wear those things?" said Gordon.

"I suppose so, or they wouldn't show them."

"They are certainly amazing."

They stood looking at them as one would at a heathen god. Then suddenly Gordon clutched Rudd's
sleeve.

"A notion! My word, a notion! Let's buy some pairs and wear them at platoon drill to-morrow."

Gordon was about to burst in to the shop when Rudd detained him.

"Steady, man, this is a great idea. Let's buy enough for the whole platoon. It will be a gorgeous
sight! Let's fetch Betteridge."

Flinging prefectorial dignity to the winds, they rushed down to the studies.

"Betteridge, you've got to let us draw upon the House funds for a good cause."

They poured out the idea. Betteridge was enthusiastic. For six shillings they bought forty
pairs of coloured laces.

At twelve-thirty next morning a huge crowd lined up under the lindens to watch the School House
parade. Rumour had flown round.

It was a noble spectacle. Each section wore a different coloured shoe-lace. Gordon's wore pale
blue, Rudd's pink, Foster's green, and Collin's orange. Everyone was shaking with laughter.
Betteridge formed the platoon up in line facing the School House dormitories; sooner or later
Rogers would pass by on his way from the common room. At last he was sighted turning the corner
of the Chief's drive. Half the school had assembled by the gates.

"Private Morgan," shouted Betteridge, "fall out and do up your shoe-lace.

"Remainder--present ARMS!"

Rogers was far too self-satisfied and certain of his own importance to see that the demonstration
was meant for him. But the school saw it, and so did certain members of the staff, who made
everything quite clear to Rogers that afternoon. Finally, the Chief learnt of the affair. Betteridge
got a lecture on military discipline and on prefectorial dignity. But a good many of the younger
masters thoroughly enjoyed the rag, and the story of the coloured shoe-laces is still recounted
in common room, when Rogers has made himself unusually tedious about his own virtues and his
cleverness in scoring off his enemies.

CHAPTER III: ROMANCE

The Tonford match was a sad travesty of Fernhurst football. The school lost by over forty points.
Gordon got his "Seconds," in company with nearly the entire Fifteen. He was not very elated.
These things had lost their value. Still, it was as well to have them.

The school authorities then came to the conclusion that the expense of travelling was too great
during war-time, and the Dulbridge match was scratched.

The Fifteen continued to play uppers. There was nothing to train for. There was no chance of
there being any matches, but the same routine went on.

It was in this period of depression that Gordon began to take an interest in Morcombe.

Morcombe was considerably Gordon's junior; not so much in years--there was, as a matter of
fact, only a few months between them--as in position. Morcombe had come late; had made little
mark at either footer or cricket; and had drifted into the Army class, where, owing to private
tuition and extra hours, he found himself somewhat "out of it" in the House. In hall he used
to sit at the top of the day-room table.

Gordon very rarely took hall. He generally managed to find someone to assume the duty for him;
but one day everyone seemed engaged on some pursuit or other, so with every anticipation of
a dull evening he went down to hall. He began to read Shelley but the surroundings were unpropitious.
All about him sat huddled fragments of humanity scratching half-baked ideas with crossed nibs
into dog-eared notebooks. There was a general air of unrest. Gordon tried Sinister Street;
some of the episodes in Lepard Street were more in harmony with his feelings, but there was
in Compton Mackenzie's prose a Keats-like perfection of phrase which seemed almost as much
out of place as Adonais. As a last resort he began to talk to the two boys nearest him, Bray
and Morcombe. Bray always amused him; his whole outlook on life was so exactly like his footer.
But for once Gordon found him dull. Morcombe was so much more interesting.

In second hall that evening Gordon discovered from a House list that Morcombe was in the Army
class. He consulted Foster on the subject.

"Know anything about a lad called Morcombe?"

"Yes; he is in the Army class. Rather a fool. Why?"

"Oh, nothing. I was talking to him in hall to-night. He didn't seem so bad."

"Perhaps he isn't. I haven't taken much interest in him."

"I see."

Gordon returned to his book. Five minutes later he began again.

"Is Morcombe fairly high in form?"

"Not very. Why this sudden interest?"

"Nothing."

Foster looked at him for a second, then burst out laughing.

"What the hell's the matter with you?" said Gordon.

"Oh, nothing."

Gordon looked fierce, and returned once more to the history of Michael Fane.

Two nights later Gordon came into his study to find Morcombe sitting with Foster, preparing
some con.

"Hope you don't mind me bringing this lad in," said Foster, "I am in great difficulties with
some con."

Gordon grunted, and proceeded to bury himself in The Pot of Basil.

"I say, Caruthers," broke in Foster. "You might help us with this Vergil? It's got us licked.
Here you are: look, 'Fortunate Senex----'"

Gordon went through the familiar passage with comparative ease.

"There now, you see," said Foster, "there's some use in these Sixth Form slackers after all.
By the way, what did you think of Claremont's sermon last night?"

Conversation flowed easily. Morcombe was quick, and, at times, amusing. Gordon unaccountably
found himself trying to appear at his best.

"You know," he was saying, "I do get so sick of these masters who go about with the theory
of 'God's in his heaven, all's right with the world,' and in war-time, too! With all these
men falling, and no advance being made from day to day."

"Yes," said Morcombe; "I agree with the 'much good, but much less good than ill' philosophy."

Gordon was surprised out of himself.

"I shouldn't have thought you had read the Shropshire Lad."

"We are not all Philistines, you know."

Thus began a friendship entirely different from any Gordon had known before. He did not know
what his real sentiments were; he did not even attempt to analyse them. He only knew that when
he was with Morcombe he was indescribably happy. There was something in him so natural, so
unaffected, so sensitive to beauty. After this Morcombe came up to Gordon's study nearly every
evening, and usually Foster left them alone together, and went off in search of Collins.

Indeed this friendship, coupled with his admiration for Ferrers, was all that kept Gordon from
wild excesses during the dark December days and the drear opening weeks of the Easter term.
During the long morning hours, when Gordon was supposed to be reading history, more than once
there came over him a wish to plunge himself into the feverish waters of pleasure, and forget
for a while the doubts and disappointments that overhung everything in his life. At times he
would sit in the big window-seat, when the school was changing class-rooms, and as he saw the
sea of faces of those, some big, some small, who had drifted with the stream, and had soon
forgotten early resolutions and principles in the conveniently broadminded atmosphere of a
certain side of Public School life, he realised how easily he could slip into that life and
be engulfed. No one would mind; his position would be the same; no one would think worse of
him. Unless, of course, he was caught. Then probably everyone would turn round upon him; that
was the one unforgivable sin--to be found out. But it was rarely that anyone was caught; and
the descent was so easy. In his excitement he might perhaps forget a little.

And then, perhaps, Ferrers would come rushing up to his study, aglow with health and clean,
fresh existence. And he would talk of books and poetry, and life and systems, and Gordon would
realise the ugliness of his own misgivings when set beside the noble idealism of art. Ferrers
was not a preacher; he never lectured anyone. He believed in setting boys high ideals. "We
needs must love the highest when we see it." And during these months his influence on Gordon
was tremendous.

Then, when the long evenings came, with Morcombe sitting in the games study, his face flushed
with the glow of the leaping fire, talking of Keats and Shelley, himself a poem, Gordon used
to wonder how he could ever have wished to dabble in ugly things, out of his cowardice to face
the truth. Those evenings were, in fact, the brightest of his Fernhurst days; their happiness
was unsubstantial, inexplicable, incomprehensible, but none the less a real happiness.

They vanished, however; and the day would begin again, with the lonely hours of morning school,
when Gordon realised once more the emptiness of his position, and how hopelessly he had failed
to do any of the things he had set out to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

The state of affairs was summed up by Archie Fletcher in the last week of the Christmas term.

"This place is simply ghastly, all the best fellows have gone," he said. "Next term we shall
have Rudd head of the House. All the young masters have gone, and we are left with fossils,
fretting because they are too old to fight, and making our lives unbearable because we are
too young. As soon as I am old enough I mean to go and fight; but I can't stick the way these
masters croak away about the trenches all day long. If you play badly at rugger you are asked
what use you will be in a regiment. If your French prose is full of howlers, you are told that
slackers aren't wanted in the trenches. Damn it all, we know that all these O.F.'s who are
now fighting in France slacked at work and cribbed; and they weren't all in the Fifteen. And
splendid men they are, too. Fernhurst isn't what it was. Last term we had a top-hole set of
chaps, and I loved Fernhurst, but I am not going to stick here now. I am going back home till
I am eighteen. Then I'll go and fight. This is no place for me."

It was the requiem of all "the old dreams"; and Gordon knew it for his own as well.

During the Christmas holidays Gordon tried to forget as far as possible Fernhurst, and all
that Fernhurst stood for. More and more he found himself turning for consolation to the poets;
but now it was to different poets that he turned. The battle-cry of Byron, the rebel flag of
Swinburne lost their hold over him. He himself was so entangled in strife that he wanted soothing
companions. In the poetry of Ernest Dowson he read something of his own failure to realise
the things he had hoped for. Endymion, rolling like a stream through valleys and wooden plains,
carried him outside the hoarse babble of voices; Comus lulled him into a temporary security
with its abundance of perfect imagery. He discovered The Poetry Bookshop in Devonshire Street
and went there for the evening readings. There was a perfect serenity in the small room at
the top of the wooden stairs, with the dark blue curtains, the intent faces, the dim, shaded
lights, the low voice reading. He wished that thus, in some monastic retreat, he might spend
his whole life in a world of dreams and illusions. But he realised that the hold of life was
too strong on him. At the same time he loved and hated the blare of trumpets, the stretching
plain, the spears glimmering in the sun. He had sought for power and position; yet when they
were won he despised them. The future was impenetrable. But he returned for the Easter term
determined to do his duty by the House, however much he might disappoint himself.

On the very first day of the term "the Bull" called him up.

"You remember," he began, "there was some talk last year about altering the conditions of the
Three Cock. I think it would be much better in every way if we could come to some arrangement
by which you should play against two houses instead of three. Conditions are so very changed.
When the match was started you had ninety boys and each outhouse had thirty. Now you have under
seventy and each outhouse over thirty-five. It is ten years now since you won, and it is a
pity it is not more of a game. Your men can't enjoy it, and I know mine don't. What do you think?"

"I think we would all rather go on as we are at present, sir."

"But don't you see how hard it is for you ever to win?"

"Yes, sir; and it is also rather hard for us to accept charity."

"Of course, I can't force anything on you. It is a matter for you to decide. But it does seem
a pity to make a match like the Three Cock a permanent farce, merely because you are too proud
to see that you can't take on the whole school. We'll discuss the matter at the end of the
term again."

When the House learnt of this interview it raged furiously.

"Confounded insolence calling it a farce," said Foster. "And, after all, we stand a chance
of winning. Heavens! we will boot them to blazes."

Everyone in the School House considered the idea of a change preposterous. Gordon alone realised
that the present was an impossible state of affairs. Sixty-four against a hundred and twenty!
They couldn't hope to win more than once in six years. He pointed this out to Morcombe in second
hall that evening.

"As a matter of fact, if we win this year, I believe I shall go to 'the Bull' and offer to
change it."

"But why?" said Morcombe. "There are times when I can't understand you, and this is one of
them. Surely, if we win, it is a proof that we are good enough to go on playing! Why stop then?"

"Because, if we did win, it would be only once in a way. And I can't bear to think of our giving
in after a beating by seventy points. It is an anti-climax. I would much rather lay down our
privilege willingly. That's why I admire Sulla so much. At the very height of his power he
laid it down, and went into a glorious retirement. His is the most dramatic exit in history.
I should like the House to do that. We have taken on too big a thing. We have got to give in
sooner or later."

"Perhaps so," said Morcombe; "and I suppose 'the Bull' thinks you are thoroughly conceited
and proud."

"I believe so," said Gordon. "But let us talk about something else."

       *       *       *       *       *

As a whole the Easter term began far more satisfactorily than the Christmas term had ended.

There were no "uppers." House captains ran everything. Morgan had been promoted into the Lower
Sixth, and Gordon found him a most entertaining person. Naturally clever and naturally indolent,
Morgan's work presented a strange contrast. He and Gordon would settle down to prepare OEdipus
Tyrannus for Finnemore. They would begin lethargically. After ten lines Morgan would ask whether
they had done enough; Gordon would fling a book at his head; somehow or other they would slop
through thirty lines. Then Morgan would shut his book, and refuse to do any more.

"Thirty lines is enough for Finnemore, and, besides, I feel rather slack to-night."

Gordon did not take the trouble to point out that the same feeling of slackness overcame him
every night.

They would both pull up their chairs in front of the fire, and waste the rest of hall talking.
The next morning, however, Gordon would discover that the lines they had prepared the night
before conveyed no meaning to him at all. He would curse Morgan, and then go up to the library,
rout out Jebbs' translation, and prepare the Greek. Then he would move across to school with
the contented feeling of work well done.

Morgan would be put on to con. Gordon would wait, laughing to himself. He was sure Morgan would
make an awful mess of things. But somehow or other Morgan always managed to translate it correctly,
if not stylishly.

"Morgan, you did that again when I wasn't there," Gordon would say afterwards.

"Oh no; we prepared it pretty well last night for a change."

After a while Gordon got used to this apparent miracle; but he himself had invariably to consult
the English authority. He did not tell Morgan that. The climax was reached when Finnemore,
who liked Gordon and thought him rather clever, wrote in Morgan's report: "He relies rather
too much on Caruther's help for his Sophocles translation." It was an interpretation that had
occurred to neither.

CHAPTER IV: THE DAWN OF NOTHING

Slowly the Easter term moved on. As the days went by the sense of failure, which had overhung
everything Gordon had done the term before, returned with an increased poignancy. The Thirds
ended in a defeat which was rendered no more pleasant by the fact that it was inevitable. No
one expected the House to win. The defeat was no reflection on Gordon's leadership. The Chief,
in fact, said to him: "We were much too small a side, Caruthers, but I think we put up a plucky
fight. You haven't anything to grumble at. We did much better than I expected."

But Gordon was always too prone to judge by results. He contrasted the game with last year's
triumphs, and with the glorious defeat of the year before, which had brought more honour than
many victories. It was very different from what he had hoped for. There would not be much to
remember his captaincy by.

One morning towards the middle of February he was glancing down the casualty list, when he
saw Jeffries's name among those killed. He put the paper down, and walked very quietly across
to his study. Jeffries was well out of it, perhaps; but still Gordon wished he could have seen
him once more. That last terrible scene in Study 16 rose before his eyes. He could almost hear
the bang of the Chief's door. And now Jeffries was dead; and no one would care. A master, perhaps,
might notice his name and say: "Just as well; he would have made a mess of his life." They
had never known Jeffries.

"You look rather upset this morning," murmured Morgan from a corner of the room. Gordon had
not noticed him.

"I am rather; a chap who had a study with me ... Jeffries ... he is in the casualty list this
morning."

"A.R. Jeffries?"

"Yes. But you didn't know him, did you?"

"Oh no; but I saw his photo in a winning Thirds group."

"Yes, that would be him. He was a fine forward."

Gordon was glad to think that that was what his friend was remembered for. Only the good remained.
It was as Jeffries would have wished....

The Two Cock drew near. There had been a good chance of winning once, but influenza had played
havoc with the side. Gordon told them they were going to win, encouraged them, presented a
smiling face, but his heart was heavy. He saw another cup going to join the silver regiment
on the Buller's sideboard. He had never found life quite so hard before; only Morgan's unshatterable
optimism, Ferrer's volcanic energy, and his own friendship for Morcombe made things bearable
at all. And yet he had all the things he had once wanted. Now Betteridge had left, he was indisputably
the big man in the House. Rudd was a broken reed. At last he began to see that the mere trappings
of power might deceive the world, but not their wearer.

A week before the Two Cock Tester paid an unexpected week-end visit. He was full of vitality
and exuberance. He was just the same, debonair, light-hearted, thoroughly happy. Everyone was
pleased to see him; he was pleased to see everyone. He was almost hilarious. But as Gordon
watched him carefully, his mirth seemed like that of Byron in Don Juan, laughter through his
tears. The others did not notice, because they had never known Tester.

Just after prayers he met Tester on his way back from supper with the Chief.

"Hullo! I have been looking for you," he said; "come for a stroll round the courts."

"Well," said Tester, as soon as they were out of earshot, "what do you make of it?"

"Pretty awful."

"Yes, I suppose you have seen a good many ideals go tumbling down. All our generation has been
sacrificed; of course it is inevitable. But it is rather hard. The older men have seen some
of their hopes realised; we shall see none. I don't know when this war will end; not just yet,
I think. But whenever it does, just as far as we are concerned the days of roses will be over.
For the time being art and literature are dead. Look at the rotten stuff that's being written
to-day. At the beginning we were deceived by the tinsel of war; Romance dies hard. But we know
now. We've done with fairy tales. There is nothing glorious in war, no good can come of it.
It's bloody, utterly bloody. I know it's inevitable, but that's no excuse. So are rape, theft,
murder. It's a bloody business. Oh, Caruthers, my boy, the world will be jolly Philistine the
next few years. Commercialism will be made a god."

"Do you mean there is going to be nothing for us after the war?" said Gordon.

"Not for you or me; for the masses, perhaps. No one can go through this without having his
senses dulled, his individuality knocked out of him. It will take at least twenty years to
recover what we have lost, and there won't be much fire left in you and me by then. Oh, I can
tell you I am frightened of what's coming after. I can't face it. Of course there may be a
great revival some day. Do you remember what Rupert Brooke said in Second Best about there
waiting for the 'great unborn some white tremendous daybreak'? That's what may happen. But
our generation will have been sacrificed for it. I suppose we should not grumble. But we only
live once. Do you remember that day of the Radley match, and what I said about Oxford? I longed
for Oxford. I wanted to begin life over again, to sweep out the past. I was beginning to realise
what beauty meant. And then down comes the war. And I don't suppose I shall ever have a chance
now. I don't know whether there is an after life or not, but if there is, I shall cut a pretty
sorry figure, if there is going to be a judgment. Well, it is my own fault. I put things off
too late. But I should have been a different chap, I think, if----"

Foster's voice rang out across the night:

"Come on, you two. What are you doing out there? The coffee's boiling over. Buck up."

"Right you are."

In a second Tester had resumed his old pose of indifference. He played his part through thoroughly;
no one, as he danced with Collins up and down the narrow study, would have associated him with
the despairing philosopher of a few moments ago. Gordon looked at him in amazement. What a
consummate actor he was! How successfully he kept his true character to himself.

Early on the Sunday morning he went back to his regiment. Gordon walked down to the station
with him.

"I am going to the front in about a week, you know," said Tester, as they were standing on
the platform.

"Good Lord! man, why didn't you tell us before?"

"Oh, I don't know. I didn't want them all unburdening themselves to me.... Here's the train.
Well, good-bye, Caruthers. Good luck."

"Thanks awfully; and mind you come back all right."

Tester smiled at him rather sadly.

"I am not coming back," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Two Cock came and went. The score was not very high against the House. But it was a poor
game. The school deserved to win, because they played less badly than the House. But there
was very little life in the game. This may have been due to a heavy field day two days before;
but whatever it was, the result was pitiable. Gordon had almost ceased to expect anything.
Day followed day. Everyone was discontented; even Ferrers began to doubt whether the war was
having such a good effect on the Public Schools after all. He said as much in an article in
The Country. He was always saying things in The Country. It was his clearing ground.

The Three Cock drew near. And each day Gordon began to think the House less likely to win.
He had watched the outhouses play, and knew how good they were. One afternoon the Buller's
captain challenged the House to a friendly game. A very hard game resulted in a draw. There
was nothing to choose between the sides. And in the Three Cock Buller's would have Claremont's
and Rogers's to help them.

There were discussions in the House as to whether the score would be kept under twenty. Someone
suggested it would have been a much better game if they had accepted "the Bull's" offer of
playing two houses instead of three. When the day came the outhouse bloods were confidently
laying three to one on their chances of running up a score of over thirty.

As Gordon sat in his study after lunch, before going down to change, he found it hard to believe
that this was actually the day that he and his friends had looked forward to for so long. It
was to have marked the start of a new era of School House greatness. It was to have been the
beginning of the new epoch. With a slightly cynical smile he compared it with the way in which
the Germans had toasted "Der Tag!" Both results would be much the same. Lethargically he got
up, put a coal or two on the fire, and went down to change.

The game followed much the same course that other Three Cocks had followed during the last
four years. For the first half the House did fairly well, and kept the score down to thirteen
to nil. Collins played magnificently; Morgan was in form; Gordon himself was not conspicuous.
Then came the second half, when the light School House pack grew tired, and was pushed about
all over the field. The cheering of tries grew desultory, and unenthusiastic. The final score
was forty-seven to nil.

"You know, Caruthers," said Collins on the way up from the field, "we should have done better
to have only taken on two houses."

"Yes," said Gordon shortly.

As soon as he had changed, he went over to "the Bull's" study. He had already decided that
it would be better to alter the condition of the match once and for all. It meant to him the
complete failure of all his plans. He had set out to lead the House to victory. In the end
not only had he retired, he had actually surrendered.

"The Bull" received him kindly.

"Ah, come round about the match, Caruthers?"

"Yes, sir. I think we had better play a Two Cock in future. Three houses are a good deal more
than we can take on."

"Well, of course, I had seen that all along," said "the Bull." "It is too much. The conditions
are so changed. Of course, we can't do this without the consent of the Games Committee. I think
we had better have a meeting to-morrow afternoon. You might tell the others, will you?"

On the next day after lunch the Games Committee met in "the Bull's" study. "The Bull" stood
with his back to the fireplace.

"As you know, I have called you here this afternoon about the Three Cock. Of course conditions
have so changed that it would be no reflection on the School House----"

"The Bull" went on. Gordon sat forward on the sofa listening subconsciously. Scenes rose before
his mind. Of Mansell two years back, after Richard's Thirds, saying: "Wait till 1915." Of Hazelton
in the dormitory saying: "Our day's coming, and you'll see it, Caruthers." Everyone had expected
this year to a triumph. And here he was signing the death warrant of School House football.

"The Bull" had finished speaking.... A resolution was passed....

"It is a lovely day," said "the Bull," "and I don't want to keep you in. I expect you all want
to be out doing something."

Gordon got out of the study somehow or other.

One of the Games Committee came up to him.

"Jolly good idea of 'the Bull's,' I think. It was much too big a job for you. Much better arrangement."

"Oh, much."

Gordon went back to the old games study, the very walls of which seemed eloquent with voices
of the dead. The rest of the House had gone for a run. He was all alone. His head fell forward
on his hands. The captaincy he had tried so hard to gain had ended in pitiable failure. It
was the desolation, the utter desolation!...

Of all that he had worked for during those four years nothing remained, nothing.

And as Gordon's mind dwelt on this the love of the monastic life which had so overwhelmed him
the holidays before swept over him again with renewed vigour. In the Roman Church at any rate
was there not something permanent? Quod semper, quod ubique, quod ab omnibus.... That boast
was surely not in vain. He longed to surrender himself completely, to fling away his own aims
and inclinations, and abandon himself to a life of quiet devotion safe from the world. It was
the natural reaction. He had been tossed on the waters of trouble and had grown weary of strife.
In Plato's Republic Ulysses asked for the life of a private individual free from care. "After
battle sleep is best. After noise, tranquillity."

