   "I do not state those things in order to change the sentence I am
   about to receive. I know your lordships' minds are made up on that. I
   state this merely to show what kind of tools the British government
   employ to procure those convictions. I have only to say, and I appeal
   to any intelligent man for his opinion, that the manner in which the
   jury list was made out for these trials clearly shows that in this
   country political trials are a mere mockery."

At this point the judge cut short the prisoner's address, and the two men were sentenced, Donovan
to five years and Duggan to ten years of penal servitude.

The trial of Underwood O'Connell was then proceeded with. It concluded on December 21st, with
a verdict of guilty. In response to the question which was then addressed to him he spoke at
considerable length, detailing the manner of his arrest, complaining of the horrible indignities
to which he had been subjected in prison, and asserting that he had not received a fair and
impartial trial. He spoke amidst a running fire of interruptions from the court, and when he
came to refer to his political opinions his discourse was peremptorily suppressed. "The sentiments
and hopes that animate me," he said, "are well known." "Really we will not hear those observations,"
interposed Mr. Justice Keogh. "It has been brought forward here," said the prisoner, "that
I held a commission in the 99th regiment--in Colonel O'Mahony's regiment. Proud as I am of
having held a commission in the United States service, I am equally proud of holding command
under a man--." Here his speech was stopped by the judges, and Mr. Justice Keogh proceeded
to pass sentence. In the course of his address his lordship made the following observations:--

   "You, it appears, went to America; you entered yourself in the
   American army, thus violating, to a certain extent, your allegiance
   as a British subject. But that is not the offence you are charged
   with here to-day. You say you swore allegiance to the American
   Republic, but no man by so doing can relieve himself from his
   allegiance to the British Crown. From the moment a man is born in
   this country he owes allegiance, he is a subject."

Hearing these words, and remembering the great outcry that was being made by the friends of
the government against the Irish-American Fenians on the ground that they were "foreigners,"
the prisoner interposed the apt remark on his lordship's legal theory:--

   "If that is so, why am I charged with bringing over foreigners--John
   O'Mahony is no foreigner?"

To that remark Judge Keogh did not choose to make any reply. It overturned him completely.
Nothing could better exhibit the absurdity of railing against those Irishmen as "foreigners"
in one breath, and in the next declaring their allegiance to the British Crown perpetual and
inalienable. His lordship may have winced as the point was so quickly and neatly brought home
to him; but at all events he went on with his address and informed the prisoner that his punishment
was to be ten years of penal servitude. Upon which, the comment of the prisoner as he quitted
the dock, was that he hoped there would be an exchange of prisoners before that time.

In quick succession four men named Casey, Began, Hayes, and Barry, were tried, convicted, and
sentenced. Each in turn impugned the evidence of the informer Warner, protested against the
constitution of the juries, and attempted to say a few words declaratory of their devotion
to the cause of Ireland. But the judges were quick to suppress every attempt of this kind,
and only a few fragments of sentences are on record to indicate the thoughts to which these
soldiers of liberty would have given expression if the opportunity had not been denied to them.

John Kennealy was the next occupant of the dock. He was a young man of high personal character,
and of great intelligence, and was a most useful member of the organization, his calling--that
of commercial traveller--enabling him to act as agent and missionary of the Society without
attracting to himself the suspicion which would be aroused by the movements of other men. In
his case also the verdict was given in the one fatal word. And when asked what he had to say
for himself, his reply was in these few forcible and dignified sentences:--

   "My lord, it is scarcely necessary for me to say anything. I am sure
   from the charge of your lordship, the jury could find no other
   verdict than has been found. The verdict against me has been found by
   the means by which political convictions have always been found in
   this country. As to the informer, Warner, I have only to say that
   directly or indirectly I never was in the same room with him, nor had
   he any means of knowing my political opinions. As to my connexion
   with Mr. Luby, I am proud of that connexion. I neither regret it, nor
   anything else I have done, politically or otherwise."

On the conclusion of this trial, on Saturday, January 2nd, 1866, two other cases were postponed
without option of bail; some other persons were allowed to stand out on sureties, and we read
that "John McAfferty and William Mackay, being aliens, were admitted to bail on their own recognizance,
and Judge Keogh said that if they left the country they would not be required up for trial
when called." We read also, in the newspapers of that time, that "The prisoners McAfferty and
Mackay when leaving the courts were followed by large crowds who cheered them loudly through
the streets."

The Cork Commission was then formally closed, and next day the judges set off to resume in
Dublin the work of trying Irish conspirators against the rule of England over their native land.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES JOSEPH KICKHAM.

In the year 1825, in the village of Mullinahone, County. Tipperary, Charles J. Kickham first
saw the light. His father, John Kickham, was proprietor of the chief drapery establishment
in that place, and was held in high esteem by the whole country round about for his integrity,
intelligence, and patriotic spirit. During the boyhood of young Kickham the Repeal agitation
was at its height, and he soon became thoroughly versed in its arguments, and inspired by its
principles, which he often heard discussed in his father's shop and by his hearth, and amongst
all his friends and acquaintances. Like all the young people of the time, and a great many
of the old ones, his sympathies went with the Young Ireland party at the time of their withdrawal
from the Repeal ranks. In 1848 he was the leading spirit of the Confederation Club at Mullinahone,
which he was mainly instrumental in founding; and after the fiasco at Ballingarry he was obliged
to conceal himself for some time, in consequence of the part he had taken in rousing the people
of his native village to action. When the excitement of that period had subsided, he again
appeared in his father's house, resumed his accustomed sports of fishing and fowling, and devoted
much of his time to literary pursuits, for which he had great natural capacity, and towards
which he was all the more inclined because of the blight put upon his social powers by an unfortunate
accident which occurred to him when about the age of thirteen years. He had brought a flask
of powder near the fire, and was engaged either in the operation of drying it or casting some
grains into the coals for amusement, when the whole quantity exploded. The shock and the injuries
he sustained nearly proved fatal to him; when he recovered, it was with his hearing nearly
quite destroyed, and his sight permanently impaired. But Kickham had the poet's soul within
him, and it was his compensation for the losses he had sustained. He could still hold communion
with nature and with his own mind, and could give to the national cause the service of a bold
heart and a finely-cultivated intellect. Subsequent to the decadence of the '48 movement he
wrote a good deal in prose and verse, and contributed gratuitously to various national publications.
His intimate acquaintance with the character and habits of the peasantry gave a great charm
to his stories and sketches of rural life; and his poems were always marked by grace, simplicity,
and tenderness. Many of them have attained a large degree of popularity amongst his countrymen
in Ireland and elsewhere, and taken a permanent place in the poetic literature of the Irish
race. Amongst these, his ballads entitled "Patrick Sheehan," "Rory of the Hill," and "The Irish
Peasant Girl" are deserving of special mention. To these remarks it remains to be added that
as regards personal character, Charles J. Kickham was one of the most amiable of men. He was
generous and kindly by nature, and was a pious member of the Catholic Church, to which his
family had given priests and nuns.

Such was the man whom the myrmidons of the law placed in the dock of Green-street court-house,
when on January 5th, 1866, after the return of the judges from Cork, the Commission was re-opened
in Dublin. His appearance was somewhat peculiar. He was a tall, strong, rough-bearded man,
with that strained expression of face which is often worn by people of dim sight. Around his
neck he wore an india-rubber tube, or ear trumpet, through which any words that were necessary
to be addressed to him were shouted into his ear by some of his friends, or by his solicitor.
His trial did not occupy much time, for on the refusal of the crown lawyers and judges to produce
the convict Thomas Clarke Luby, whom he conceived to be a material witness for his defence,
he directed his lawyers to abandon the case, and contented himself with reading to the court
some remarks on the evidence which had been offered against him. The chief feature in this
address was his denial of all knowledge of the "executive document." He had never seen or heard
of it until it turned up in connexion with those trials. Referring to one of the articles with
the authorship of which he was charged, he said he wondered how any Irishman, taking into consideration
what had occurred in Ireland during the last eighty-four years, could hesitate to say to the
enemy--"Give us our country to ourselves and let us see what we can do with it." Alluding to
a report that the government contemplated making some concession to the claims of the Catholic
bishops, he remarked that concessions to Ireland had always been a result of Fenianism in one
shape or another, and that he believed the present manifestation of the national spirit would
have weight, as former ones had, with the rulers of the country. As regards the landed class
in Ireland, the Irish People, he contended, had said nothing more than was said by Thomas Davis,
whose works every one admired. That eminent Irishman, afflicted and stung to the heart by witnessing
the system of depopulation which was going on throughout the country, had written these words:--

   "God of Justice, I sighed, send your Spirit down
     On those lords so cruel and proud,
   And soften their hearts, and relax their frown,
     Or else, I cried aloud,
   Vouchsafe Thy strength to the peasant's hand
   To drive them at length from out the land."

He had not gone farther than the writer of these lines, and now, he said, they might send him
to a felon's doom if they liked.

And they did send him to it. Judge Keogh, before passing sentence, asked him if he had any
further remarks to make in reference to his case. Mr. Kickham briefly replied:--

   "I believe, my lords, I have said enough already. I will only add
   that I am convicted for doing nothing but my duty. I have endeavoured
   to serve Ireland, and now I am prepared to suffer for Ireland."

Then the judge, with many expressions of sympathy for the prisoner, and many compliments in
reference to his intellectual attainments, sentenced him to kept in penal servitude for fourteen
years. His solicitor, Mr. John Lawless, announced the fact to him through his ear trumpet.
Charles J. Kickham bowed to the judges, and with an expression of perfect tranquility on his
features, went into captivity.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL THOMAS F. BURKE.

The year of grace, 1867, dawned upon a cloudy and troublous period in Irish politics. There
was danger brewing throughout the land; under the crust of society the long confined lava of
Fenianism effervesced and glowed. There were strange rumours in the air; strange sounds were
heard at the death of night on the hill-sides and in the meadows; and through the dim moonlight
masses of men were seen in secluded spots moving in regular bodies and practising military
evolutions. From castle and mansion and country seat the spectre of alarm glided to and fro,
whispering with bloodless lips of coming convulsions and slaughter, of the opening of the crater
of revolution, and of a war against property and class. Symptoms of danger were everywhere
seen and felt; the spirit of disaffection had not been crushed; it rode on the night wind and
glistened against the rising sun; it filled rath and fort and crumbling ruin with mysterious
sounds; it was seen in the brightening eyes and the bold demeanour of the peasantry; in the
signals passing amongst the people; in their secret gatherings and closely guarded conclaves.
For years and years Fenianism had been threatening, boasting, and promising, and now the fury
of the storm, long pent-up, was about to burst forth over the land--the hour for action was
at hand.

Between the conviction of Luby, O'Leary, and Kickham, and the period at which we are now arrived,
many changes of importance had taken place in the Fenian organization. In America, the society
had been revolutionized--it had found new leaders, new principles, new plans of action; it
had passed through the ordeal of war, and held its ground amidst flashing swords and the smoke
of battle; it had survived the shocks of division, disappointment, and failure; treachery,
incapacity and open hostility had failed to shatter it; and it grew apace in strength, influence,
and resources. At home Fenianism, while losing little in numerical strength, had declined in
effectiveness, in prestige, in discipline, and in organization. Its leaders had been swept
into the prisons, and though men perhaps as resolute stepped forward to fill the vacant places,
there was a loss in point of capacity and intelligence, and to the keen observer it became
apparent that the Fenian Society in Ireland had attained to the zenith of its power on the
day that the Irish People office was sacked by the police. Never again did the prospects of
Fenianism, whatever they might then have been, look equally bright; and when the brotherhood
at length sprang to action, they fought with a sword already broken to the hilt, and under
circumstances the most ominous and inauspicious.

The recent history of the Fenian movement is so thoroughly understood that anything like a
detailed account of its changes and progress is, in these pages, unnecessary. We shall only
say that when James Stephens arrived in America in May, 1866, after escaping from Richmond
Prison, he found the society in the States split up into two opposing parties between whom
a violent quarrel was raging. John O'Mahony had been deposed from his position of "Head Centre"
by an all but unanimous vote of the Senate, or governing body of the association, who charged
him and his officials with a reckless and corrupt expenditure of the society's funds, and these
in turn charged the Senate party with the crime of breaking up the organization for mere personal
and party purposes. A large section of the society still adhered to O'Mahony, in consideration
of his past services in their cause; but the greater portion of it, and nearly all its oldest,
best-known and most trusted leaders gave their allegiance to the Senate and to its elected
President, William R. Roberts, an Irish merchant of large means, of talent and energy, of high
character and unquestionable devotion to the cause of his country. Many friends of the brotherhood
hoped that James Stephens would seek to heal the breach between these parties, but the course
he took was not calculated to effect that purpose. He denounced the "senators" in the most
extravagant terms, and invited both branches of the organization to unite under himself as
supreme and irresponsible leader and governor of the entire movement. The O'Mahony section
did not answer very heartily to this invitation; the Senate party indignantly rejected it,
and commenced to occupy themselves with preparations for an immediate grapple with British
power in Canada. Those men were thoroughly in earnest, and the fact became plain to every intelligence,
when in the latter part of May, 1866, the Fenian contingents from the various States of the
Union began to concentrate on the Canadian border. On the morning of the 1st of June some hundreds
of them crossed the Niagara river, and took possession of the village of Fort Erie on the Canadian
side. They were soon confronted with detachments of the volunteer force which had been collected
to resist the invasion, and at Limestone Ridge they were met by the "Queen's Own" regiment
of volunteers from Toronto, under the command of Colonel Booker. A smart battle ensued, the
result of which was that the "Queen's Own" were utterly routed by the Irish under Colonel John
O'Neill, and forced to run in wild confusion for a town some miles distant, Colonel Booker
on his charger leading the way and distancing all competitors. Had the Irish been allowed to
follow up this victory it is not unlikely that they would have swept Canada clear of the British
forces, and then, according to their programme, made that country their base of operations
against British power in Ireland. But the American government interfered and put an effectual
stopper on their progress; they seized the arms of the Irish soldiers on the frontier, they
sent up large parties of the States soldiery to prevent the crossing of hostile parties into
British territory, and stationed war-vessels in the river for the same purpose. Reinforcements
being thus cut off from them, the victors of Limestone Ridge found themselves under the necessity
of re-crossing the river to the American shore, which they did on the night of the 2nd of June,
bringing with them the flags and other trophies which they had captured from the royal troops.

The first brush between the Fenian forces and the Queen's troops inspired the former with high
hopes, and with great confidence in their capacity to humble "the English red below the Irish
green," if only they could start on any thing like fair terms. But now that the American government
had forbidden the fight in Canada, what was to be done? James Stephens answered that question.
He would have a fight in Ireland--the right place, he contended, in which to fight for Ireland.
The home organization was subject to his control and would spring to arms at his bidding. He
would not only bid them fight, but would lead them to battle, and that at no distant day. The
few remaining months of 1866 would not pass away without witnessing the commencement of the
struggle. So he said, and so he swore in the most solemn manner at various public meetings
which he had called for the purpose of obtaining funds wherewith to carry on the conflict.
The prudence of thus publishing the date which he had fixed for the outbreak of the insurrection
was very generally questioned, but however great might be his error in this respect, many believed
that he would endeavour to make good his words. The British government believed it, and prepared
for the threatened rising by hurrying troops and munitions of war across to Ireland, and putting
the various forts and barracks in a state of thorough defence. As the last days and nights
of 1866 wore away, both the government and the people expected every moment to hear the first
crash of the struggle. But it came not. The year 3867 came in and still all was quiet. What
had become of James Stephens? The astonished and irate Fenians of New York investigated the
matter, and found that he was peacefully and very privately living at lodgings in some part
of that city, afraid to face the wrath of the men whom he had so egregiously deceived. We need
not describe the outburst of rage and indignation which followed on the discovery; suffice
it to say that the once popular and powerful Fenian leader soon found it prudent to quit the
United States and take up his abode in a part of the world where there were no Fenian circles
and no settlements of the swarming Irish race.

Amongst the men who had rallied round James Stephens in America there were many whose honesty
was untainted, and who had responded to his call with the full intention of committing themselves,
without regard to consequences, to the struggle which he promised to initiate. They believed
his representations respecting the prospects of an insurrection in Ireland, and they pledged
themselves to fight by his side and perish, if necessary, in the good old cause, in defence
of which their fathers had bled. They scorned to violate their engagements; they spurned the
idea of shrinking from the difficulty they had pledged themselves to face, and resolved that
come what may the reproach of cowardice and bad faith should never be uttered against them.
Accordingly, in January, '67, they began to fend in scattered parties at Queenstown, and spread
themselves through the country, taking every precaution to escape the suspicion of the police.
They set to work diligently and energetically to organize an insurrectionary outbreak; they
found innumerable difficulties in their path; they found the people almost wholly unarmed;
they found the wisest of the Fenian leaders opposed to an immediate outbreak, but still they
persevered. How ably they performed their work there is plenty of evidence to show, and if
the Irish outbreak of '67 was short-lived and easily suppressed, it was far from contemptible
in the pre-concert and organization which it evidenced.

One hitch did occur in the accomplishment of their designs. On Wednesday, February 13th, the
exciting news was flashed throughout the land that the Fenians had broken into insurrection
at Kerry. The news was true. The night of the 12th of February had been fixed for a simultaneous
rising of the Fenians in Ireland; but the outbreak had been subsequently postponed, and emissaries
were despatched to all parts of the country with the intelligence of the change of date. The
change of date was everywhere learned in time to prevent premature action except at Cahirciveen,
in the west of Kerry, where the members of the Brotherhood, acting upon the orders received,
unearthed their arms, and gaily proceeded towards Killarney to form a junction with the insurgents
whom they imagined had converged from various parts of the county in that town. Before many
hours had elapsed they discovered their mistake--they heard before arriving at Killarney that
they were the only representatives of the Irish Republic that had appeared in the field, and
turning to the mountains they broke up and disappeared.

Short-lived as was their escapade, it filled the heart of England with alarm. In hot haste
the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act, which had been permitted to lapse a month before, was re-enacted;
the arrests and police raids was renewed, and from the Giant's Causeway to Cape Clear the gaols
were filled with political prisoners. Still the Irish-Americans worked on; some of them were
swept off to prison, but the greater number of them managed to escape detection, and spite
of the vigilance of the authorities, and the extraordinary power possessed by the government
and its officials, they managed to carry on the business of the organization, to mature their
plans, and to perfect their arrangements for the fray.

We do not propose to write here a detailed account of the last of the outbreaks which, since
the Anglo-Norman invasion, have periodically convulsed our country. The time is not yet come
when the whole history of that extraordinary movement can be revealed, and such of its facts,
as are now available for publication, are fresh in the minds of our readers. On the night of
the 5th of March, the Fenian bands took the field in Dublin, Louth, Tipperary, Cork, Waterford,
Limerick, and Clare. They were, in all cases, wretchedly armed, their plans had been betrayed
by unprincipled associates, and ruin tracked their venture from the outset. They were everywhere
confronted by well-armed, disciplined men, and their reckless courage could not pluck success
for the maze of adverse circumstances that surrounded them. The elements, too, befriended England
as they had often done before. Hardly had the insurgents left their homes when the clear March
weather gave place to the hail and snow of mid-winter. The howling storm, edged by the frost
and hail, swept over mountain and valley, rendering life in the open air all but impossible
to man. The weather in itself would have been sufficient to dispose of the Fenian insurgents.
Jaded and exhausted they returned to their homes, and twenty-four hours after the flag of revolt
had been unfurled the Fenian insurrection was at an end.

Amongst the Irish officers who left America to share in the expected battle for Irish rights,
a conspicuous place must be assigned Thomas F. Burke. He was born at Fethard, county Tipperary,
on the 10th of December, 1840, and twelve years later sailed away towards the setting sun,
his parents having resolved on seeking a home in the far West. In New York, young Burke attended
the seminary established by the late Archbishop Hughes, where he received an excellent education,
after which he was brought up to his father's trade--that of house painter. For many years
he worked steadily at his trade, contributing largely to the support of his family. The outbreak
of the war, however, acted in the same manner on Burke's temperament as on thousands of his
fellow-countrymen. He threw aside his peaceful avocation and joined the Confederate army. He
served under General Patrick Cleburne, who died in his arms, and he fought side by side with
the son of another distinguished exile, John Mitchel. When the war had closed, he returned
a Brevet-General, northwards, with a shattered limb and an impaired constitution. In June,
1865, he joined the Wolfe Tone Circle of the Fenian Brotherhood in New York, and was appointed
soon afterwards to act as organizer in the Brotherhood for the district of Manhattan. He filled
this post with great satisfaction to his associates, and continued to labour energetically
in this capacity until his departure for Ireland, at the close of 1866.

Tipperary was assigned to Burke as the scene of his revolutionary labours in Ireland. He arrived
in Clonmel early in February, where he was arrested on suspicion, but was immediately discharged--his
worn appearance and physical infirmity giving strong corroboration of his assertion, that he
had come to Ireland for the benefit of his health. On the night of the insurrection he placed
himself at the head of the Fenian party that assembled in the neighbourhood of Tipperary, but
he quickly saw the folly of attempting a revolution with the scanty band of unarmed men that
rallied round him. On the evening of the 6th his followers were attacked by a detachment of
soldiers at Ballyhurst Fort, about three miles from Tipperary; Burke saw the uselessness of
resistance, and advised his followers to disperse--an injunction which they appear to have
obeyed. Burke himself was thrown from his horse and captured. He was conveyed to the jail of
Tipperary, and was brought to trial in the Greenstreet court-house, in Dublin, on the 24th
of April following. He was convicted of high treason, and sentenced to death in the usual form.
The following speech delivered by him after conviction is well worthy of a place in the Irish
heart:--

   "My lords--It is not my intention to occupy much of your time in
   answering the question--what I have to say why sentence should not be
   passed upon me? But I may, with your permission, review a little of
   the evidence that has been brought against me. The first evidence
   that I would speak of is that of Sub-Inspector Kelly, who had a
   conversation with me in Clonmel. He states that he asked me either
   how was my friend, or what about my friend, Mr. Stephens, and
   that I made answer and said, that he was the most idolised man that
   ever had been, or that ever would be in America. Here, standing on
   the brink of my grave, and in the presence of the Almighty and
   ever-living God, I brand that as being the foulest perjury that ever
   man gave utterance to. In any conversation that occurred the name of
   Stephens was not mentioned. I shall pass from that, and then touch on
   the evidence of Brett. He states that I assisted in distributing the
   bread to the parties in the fort, and that I stood with him in the
   waggon or cart. This is also false. I was not in the fort at the
   time; I was not there when the bread was distributed. I came in
   afterwards. Both of these assertions have been made and submitted to
   the men in whose hands my life rested, as evidence made on oath by
   these men--made solely and purely for the purpose of giving my body
   to an untimely grave. There are many points, my lords, that have been
   sworn to here to prove my complicity in a great many acts it has been
   alleged I took part in. It is not my desire now, my lords, to give
   utterance to one word against the verdict which has been pronounced
   upon me. But fully conscious of my honour as a man, which has never
   been impugned, fully conscious that I can go into my grave with a
   name and character unsullied, I can only say that these parties,
   actuated by a desire either of their own aggrandisement, or to save
   their paltry miserable lives, have pandered to the appetite, if I may
   so speak, of justice, and my life shall pay the forfeit. Fully
   convinced and satisfied of the righteousness of my every act in
   connection with the late revolutionary movement in Ireland, I have
   nothing to recall--nothing that I would not do again, nothing for
   which I should feel the blush of shame mantling my brow; my conduct
   and career, both here as a private citizen, and in America--if you
   like--as a soldier, are before you; and even in this, my hour of
   trial, I feel the consciousness of having lived an honest man, and I
   will die proudly, believing that if I have given my life to give
   freedom and liberty to the land of my birth, I have done only that
   which every Irishman and every man whose soul throbs with a feeling
   of liberty should do. I, my lords, shall scarcely--I feel I should
   not at all--mention the name of Massey. I feel I should not pollute
   my lips with the name of that traitor, whose illegitimacy has been
   proved here--a man whose name even is not known, and who, I deny
   point blank, ever wore the star of a colonel in the Confederate army.
   Him I shall let rest. I, my lords, have no
   desire for the name of a martyr; I seek not the death of a martyr;
   but if it is the will of the Almighty and Omnipotent God that my
   devotion for the land of my birth shall be tested on the scaffold, I
   am willing there to die in defence of the right of men to free
   government--the right of an oppressed people to throw off the yoke of
   thraldom. I am an Irishman by birth, an American by adoption; by
   nature a lover of freedom--an enemy to the power that holds my native
   land in the bonds of tyranny. It has so often been admitted that the
   oppressed have a right to throw off the yoke of oppression, even by
   English statesmen, that I do not deem it necessary to advert to the
   fact in a British court of justice. Ireland's children are not, never
   were, and never will be, willing or submissive slaves; and so long as
   England's flag covers one inch of Irish soil, just so long will they
   believe it to be a divine right to conspire, imagine, and devise
   means to hurl it from power, and to erect in its stead the God-like
   structure of self-government. I shall now, my lords, before I go any
   further, perform one important duty to my learned, talented, and
   eloquent counsel. I offer them that which is poor enough, the thanks,
   the sincere and heartfelt thanks of an honest man. I offer them, too,
   in the name of America, the thanks of the Irish people. I know that I
   am here without a relative--without a friend--in fact, 3,000 miles
   away from my family. But I know that I am not forgotten there. The
   great and generous Irish heart of America to-day feels for me--to-day
   sympathises with and does not forget the man who is willing to tread
   the scaffold--aye, defiantly--proudly, conscious of no wrong--in
   defence of American principles--in defence of liberty. To Messrs.
   Butt, Dowse, O'Loghlen, and all the counsel for the prisoners, for
   some of whom I believe Mr. Curran will appear, and my very able
   solicitor, Mr. Lawless, I return individually and collectively, my
   sincere and heartfelt thanks.

   "I shall now, my lords, as no doubt you will suggest to me, think of
   the propriety of turning my attention to the world beyond the grave.
   I shall now look only to that home where sorrows are at an end, where
   joy is eternal. I shall hope and pray that freedom may vet dawn on
   this poor down-trodden country. It is my hope, it is my prayer, and
   the last words that I shall utter will be a prayer to God for
   forgiveness, and a prayer for poor old Ireland. Now, my lords; in
   relation to the other man, Corridon, I will make a few remarks.
   Perhaps before I go to Corridon, I should say much has been spoken on
   that table of Colonel Kelly, and of the meetings held at his lodgings
   in London. I desire to state, I never knew where Colonel Kelly's
   lodgings were. I never knew where he lived in London, till I heard
   the informer, Massey, announce it on the table. I never attended a
   meeting at Colonel Kelly's; and the hundred other statements that
   have been made about him. I now solemnly declare on my honour as a
   man--as a dying man--these statements have been totally unfounded and
   false from beginning to end. In relation to the small paper that was
   introduced here, and brought against me as evidence, as having been
   found on my person in connexion with that oath, I desire to say that
   that paper was not found on my person. I knew no person whose name
   was on that paper. O'Beirne, of Dublin, or those other delegates you
   heard of, I never saw or met. That paper has been put in there for
   some purpose. I can swear positively it is not in my handwriting. I
   can also swear I never saw it; yet it is used as evidence against me.
   Is this justice? Is this right? Is this manly? I am willing if I have
   transgressed the laws to suffer the penalty, but I object to this
   system of trumping up a case to take away the life of a human being.
   True, I ask for no mercy. I feel that, with my present emaciated
   frame and somewhat shattered constitution, it is bettor that my life
   should be brought to an end than that I should drag out a miserable
   existence in the prison dens of Portland. Thus it is, my lords, I
   accept the verdict. Of course my acceptance of it is unnecessary, but
   I am satisfied with it. And now I shall close. True it is there are
   many feelings that actuate me at this moment. In fact, these few
   disconnected remarks can give no idea of what I desire to state to
   the court. I have ties to bind me to life and society as strong as
   any man in this court can have. I have a family I love as much as any
   man in this court loves his family. But I can remember the blessing I
   received from an aged mother's lips as I left her the last time. She,
   speaking as the Spartan mother did, said--'Go, my boy, return either
   with your shield or upon it.' This reconciles me--this gives me
   heart. I submit to my doom; and I hope that God will forgive me my
   past sins. I hope also, that inasmuch as He has for seven hundred
   years preserved Ireland, notwithstanding all the tyranny to which she
   has been subjected, as a separate and distinct nationality, He will
   also assist her to retrieve her fallen fortunes--to rise in her
   beauty and majesty, the Sister of Columbia, the peer of any nation in
   the world."

General Burke, as our readers are well aware, was not executed. The government shrank from
carrying out the barbarous sentence of the law, and his punishment was changed to the still
more painful, if less appalling fate, of penal servitude for life. Of General Burke's private
character we have said little; but our readers will be able to understand it from the subjoined
brief extracts from two of his letters. On the very night previous to his trial he wrote to
his mother from Kilmainham Prison:--

   ... "On last Easter Sunday I partook of Holy Communion at a late
   mass, I calculated the difference of time between this longitude and
   yours, for I knew that you and my dear sisters were partaking of the
   sacrament at early mass on that day, as was your wont, and I felt
   that our souls were in communion together."

We conclude with the following letter from General Burke, which has never before been published,
and which we are sure will be of deep interest to our readers. It is addressed to the reverend
gentleman who had been his father confessor in Clonmel:--

   "KILMAINHAM GOAL,

   "4th, Month of Mary.

   "DEAR REV. FATHER,

   " ... I am perfectly calm and resigned, with my thoughts firmly
   centered with hope in the goodness and mercy of that kind Redeemer,
   whose precious blood was shed for my salvation; as also in the
   mediation and intercession of His Blessed Mother, who is my Star of
   Hope and Consolation. I know, dear father, I need not ask you to be
   remembered in your prayers, for I feel that in your supplication to
   the Throne of Mercy I have not been forgotten.... I have only one
   thought which causes me much sorrow, and that is that my good and
   loving mother will break down under the weight of her affliction,
   and, oh, God, I who loved her more than the life which animates the
   hand that writes to be the cause of it! This thought unmans and
   prostrates me. I wrote to her at the commencement of my trial, and
   told her how I thought it would terminate, and spoke a long and last
   farewell. I have not written since; it would break my heart to
   attempt it; but I would ask you as an especial favour that you would
   write to her and tell her I am happy and reconciled to the will of
   God who has given me this opportunity of saving my immortal soul. I
   hope to hear from you before I leave this world."

   "Good-bye, father, and that God may bless you in your ministry is the
   prayer of an obedient child of the church."

   "THOMAS F. BURKE."

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN JOHN M'AFFERTY.

It is not Irish-born men alone whose souls are filled with a chivalrous love for Ireland, and
a stern hatred of her oppressor. There are amongst the ranks of her patriots none more generous,
more resolute, or more active in her cause than the children born of Irish parents in various
parts of the world. In London, Liverpool, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow, and all the large
towns of Great Britain, throughout the United States, and in the British colonies, many of
the best known and most thorough-going "Irishmen" are men whose place of birth was not beneath
the Irish skies, and amongst them are some who never saw the shores of the Green Isle. One
of these men was Captain John M'Afferty. He was born of Irish parents in the State of Ohio,
in the year 1838, and at their knees he heard of the rights and wrongs of Ireland, learned
to sympathise with the sufferings of that country, and to regard the achievement of its freedom
as a task in which he was bound to bear a part. He grew up to be a man of adventurous and daring
habits, better fitted for the camp than for the ordinary ways of peaceful life; and when the
civil war broke out he soon found his place in one of those regiments of the Confederacy whose
special duty lay in the accomplishment of the most hazardous enterprises. He belonged to the
celebrated troop of Morgan's guerillas, whose dashing feats of valour so often filled the Federal
forces with astonishment and alarm. In the latter part of 1865 he crossed over to this country
to assist in leading the insurrection which was then being prepared by the Fenian organization.
He was arrested, as already stated in these pages, on board the steamer at Queenstown before
he had set foot on Irish soil; when brought to trial at Cork, in the month of December, the
lawyers discovered that being an alien, and having committed no overt act of treason within
the Queen's dominions, there was no case against him, and he was consequently discharged. He
then went back to America, took an active part in some Fenian meetings, made a speech at one
of them which was held at Jones's Wood, and when the report of the proceedings appeared in
print, he, with a sense of grim humour, posted a copy containing his oration to the governor
of Mountjoy Prison, Dublin. In the latter part of 1866, when James Stephens was promising to
bring off immediately the long-threatened insurrection, M'Afferty again crossed the ocean,
and landed in England. There he was mainly instrumental in planning and organizing that extraordinary
movement, the raid on Chester, which took place on Monday, 11th of February, 1867. It is now
confessed, even by the British authorities themselves, that but for the timely intimation of
the design given by the informer Corridon, M'Afferty and his party would probably have succeeded
in capturing the old Castle, and seizing the large store of arms therein contained. Finding
their movements anticipated, the Fenian party left Chester as quietly as they had come, and
the next that was heard of M'Afferty was his arrest, and that of his friend and companion John
Flood, on the 23rd of February, in the harbour of Dublin, after they had got into a small boat
from out of the collier "New Draper," which had just arrived from Whitehaven. M'Afferty was
placed in the dock of Green-street court-house for trial on Wednesday, May 1st, while the jury
were absent considering their verdict in the case of Burke and Doran. On Monday, May the 6th,
he was declared guilty by the jury. On that day week a Court of Appeal, consisting of ten of
the Irish judges, sat to consider some legal points raised by Mr. Butt in the course of the
trial, the most important of which was the question whether the prisoner, who had been in custody
since February 23rd, could be held legally responsible for the events of the Fenian rising
which occurred on the night of the 5th of March. Their lordships gave an almost unanimous judgment
against the prisoner on Saturday, May 18th, and on the Monday following he was brought up for
sentence, on which occasion, in response to the usual question, he spoke as follows:--

   "My lords--I have nothing to say that can, at this advanced stage of
   the trial, ward off that sentence of death, for I might as well hurl
   my complaint (if I had one) at the orange trees of the sunny south,
   or the tall pine trees of the bleak north, as now to speak to the
   question why sentence of death should not be passed upon me according
   to the law of the land; but I do protest loudly against the injustice
   of that sentence. I have been brought to trial upon a charge of high
   treason against the government of Great Britain, and guilt has been
   brought home to me upon the evidence of one witness, and that witness
   a perjured informer. I deny distinctly that there have been two
   witnesses to prove the overt act of treason against me. I deny
   distinctly that you have brought two independent witnesses to two
   overt acts. There is but one witness to prove the overt act of
   treason against me. I grant that there has been a cloud of
   circumstantial evidence to show my connection (if I may please to use
   that word) with the Irish people in their attempt for Irish
   independence, and I claim that as an American and as an alien, I have
   a reason and a right to sympathise with the Irish people or any other
   people who may please to revolt against that form of government by
   which they believe they are governed tyrannically. England
   sympathised with America. She not only sympathised, but she gave her
   support to both parties; but who ever heard of an Englishman having
   been arrested by the United States government for having given his
   support to the Confederate States of America and placed on his trial
   for high treason against the government? No such case ever has been.
   I do not deny that I have sympathised with the Irish people--I love
   Ireland--I love the Irish people. And, if I were free to-morrow, and
   the Irish people were to take the field for independence, my sympathy
   would be with them; I would join them if they had any prospect
   whatever of independence, but I would not give my sanction to the
   useless effusion of blood, however done; and I state distinctly that
   I had nothing whatever to do, directly or indirectly, with the
   movement that took place in the county of Dublin. I make that
   statement on the brink of my grave. Again, I claim that I have a
   right to be discharged of the charge against me by the language of
   the law by which I have been tried. That law states that you must
   have two independent witnesses to prove the overt act against the
   prisoner. That is the only complaint I have to make, and I make that
   aloud. I find no fault with the jury, no complaint against the
   judges. I have been tried and found guilty. I am perfectly satisfied
   that I will go to my grave. I will go to my grave like a gentleman
   and a Christian, although I regret that I should be cut off at this
   stage of my life--still many an noble Irishman fell in defence of the
   rights of my southern clime. I do not wish to make any flowery speech
   to win sympathy in the court of justice. Without any further remarks
   I will now accept the sentence of the court."

Mr. Justice Fitzgerald then in the "solemn tone of voice" adopted on such occasions proceeded
to pass sentence in the usual form, fixing the 12th day of June as the date on which the execution
should take place.

The prisoner heard the sentence without giving the slightest symptoms of emotion, and then
spoke as follows:--

   "I will accept my sentence as becomes a gentleman and a Christian. I
   have but one request to ask of the tribunal, and that is that after
   the execution of the sentence my remains shall be turned over to Mr.
   Lawless to be by him interred in consecrated ground as quietly as he
   possibly can. I have now, previous to leaving the dock, once more to
   return my grateful and sincere thanks to Mr. Butt, the star of the
   Irish bar, for his able and devoted defence on behalf of me and my
   friends. Mr. Butt, I thank you. I also return the same token of
   esteem to Mr. Dowse, for the kind and feeling manner in which he
   alluded to the scenes in my former life. Those kind allusions recall
   to my mind many moments--some bright, beautiful, and glorious--and
   yet some sad recollections arise of generous hopes that floated o'er
   me, and now sink beyond the grave. Mr. Butt, please convey to Mr.
   Dowse my grateful and sincere thanks. Mr. Lawless, I also return you
   my thanks for your many acts of kindness--I can do no more."

He was not executed however. The commutation of Burke's sentence necessitated the like course
in all the other capital cases, and M'Afferty's doom was changed to penal servitude for life.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDWARD DUFFY.

On the day following that on which M'Afferty's sentence was pronounced, the trial of three
men, named John Flood, Edward Duffy, and John Cody was brought to a conclusion. When they were
asked what they had to say why sentence should not be passed on them, Cody denied with all
possible earnestness the charge of being president of an assassination committee, which had
been brought against him. Flood--a young man of remarkably handsome exterior--declared that
the evidence adduced against himself was untrue in many particulars. He alluded to the Attorney-General's
having spoken of him as "that wretched man, Flood." "My lords," said he, "if to love my country
more than my life makes me a wretched man, then I am a very wretched man indeed." Edward Duffy,
it might be supposed by anyone looking at his emaciated frame, wasted by consumption, and with
the seal of death plainly set on his brow, would not be able to offer any remarks to the court;
but he roused himself to the effort. The noble-hearted young fellow had been previously in
the clutches of the government for the same offence. He was arrested with James Stephens and
others at Fairfield House, in November, 1865, but after a brief imprisonment was released in
consideration of the state of his health, which seemed such as would not leave him many days
to live. But, few or many, Duffy could not do otherwise than devote them to the cause he had
at heart. He was re-arrested at Boyle on the 11th of March, and this time the government took
care they would not quit their hold of him. The following is the speech which, by a great physical
effort, he delivered from the dock, his dark eyes brightening, and his pallid features lighting
up with the glow of an earnest and lofty enthusiasm while he spoke:--

   "The Attorney-General has made a wanton attack on me, but I leave my
   countrymen to judge between us. There is no political act of mine
   that I in the least regret. I have laboured earnestly and sincerely
   in my country's cause, and I have been actuated throughout by a
   strong sense of duty. I believe that a man's duty to his country is
   part of his duty to God, for it is He who implants the feeling of
   patriotism in the human breast. He, the great searcher of hearts,
   knows that I have been actuated by no mean or paltry ambition--that I
   have never worked for any selfish end. For the late outbreak I am not
   responsible; I did all in my power to prevent it, for I knew that,
   circumstanced as we then were, it would be a failure. It has been
   stated in the course of those trials that Stephens was for peace.
   This is a mistake. It may be well that it should not go
   uncontradicted. It is but too well known in Ireland that he sent
   numbers of men over here to fight, promising to be with them when the
   time would come. The time did come, but not Mr. Stephens. He remained
   in France to visit the Paris Exhibition. It may be a very pleasant
   sight, but I would not be in his place now. He is a lost man--lost to
   honour, lost to country. There are a few things I would wish to say
   relative to the evidence given against me at my trial, but I would
   ask your lordships to give me permission to say them after sentence.
   I have a reason for asking to be allowed to say them after sentence
   has been passed."

   The Chief Justice--"That is not the usual practice. Not being tried
   for life, it is doubtful to me whether you have a right to speak at
   all. What you are asked to say is why sentence should not be passed
   upon you, and whatever you have to say you must say now."

   "Then, if I must say it now I declare it before my God that what
   Kelly swore against me on the table is not true. I saw him in
   Ennisgroven, but that I ever spoke to him on any political subject I
   declare to heaven I never did. I knew him from a child in that little
   town, herding with the lowest and vilest. Is it to be supposed I'd
   put my liberty into the hands of such a character? I never did it.
   The next witness is Corridon. He swore that at the meeting he
   referred to I gave him directions to go to Kerry to find O'Connor,
   and put himself in communication with him. I declare to my God every
   word of that is false. Whether O'Connor was in the country or whether
   he had made his escape, I know just as little as your lordships; and
   I never heard of the Kerry rising until I saw it in the public
   papers. As to my giving the American officers money that night,
   before my God, on the verge of my grave, where my sentence will send
   me, I say that also is false. As to the writing that the policeman
   swore to in that book, and which is not a prayer-book, but the
   'Imitation of Christ,' given to me by a lady to whom I served my
   time, what was written in that book was written by another young man
   in her employment. That is his writing not mine. It is the writing
   of a young man in the house, and I never wrote a line of it."

   The Lord Chief Justice--"It was not sworn to be in your handwriting."

   "Yes, my lord, it was. The policeman swore it was in my
   hand-writing."

   The Lord Chief Justice--"That is a mistake. It was said to be like
   yours."

   "The dream of my life has been that I might be fighting for Ireland.
   The jury have doomed me to a more painful, but not less glorious
   death. I now bid farewell to my friends and all who are dear to me.

   "'There is a world where souls are free,
     Where tyrants taint not nature's bliss;
   If death that bright world's opening be,
     Oh, who would live a slave in this.'

   "I am proud to be thought worthy of suffering for my country; when I
   am lying in my lonely cell I will not forget Ireland, and my last
   prayer will be that the God of liberty may give her strength to shake
   off her chains."

John Flood and Edward Duffy were then sentenced each to fifteen years of penal servitude, and
Cody to penal servitude for life.

Edward Duffy's term of suffering did not last long. A merciful Providence gave his noble spirit
release from its earthly tenement before one year from the date of his sentence had passed
away. On the 21st of May, 1867, his trial concluded; on the 17th of January, 1868, the patriot
lay dead in his cell in Millbank Prison, London. The government permitted his friends to remove
his remains to Ireland for interment; and they now rest in Glasnevin Cemetery, Dublin, where
friendly hands oft renew the flowers on his grave, and many a heartfelt prayer is uttered that
God would give the patriot's soul eternal rest, and "let perpetual light shine unto him."

       *       *       *       *       *

STEPHEN JOSEPH MEANY.

The connexion of Stephen Joseph Meany with Irish politics dates back to 1848, when he underwent
an imprisonment of some months in Carrickfergus Castle, under the provisions of the Habeas
Corpus Suspension Act. He had been a writer on one of the national newspapers of that period,
and was previously a reporter for a Dublin daily paper. He joined the Fenian movement in America,
and was one of the "Senators" in O'Mahony's organization. In December, 1866, he crossed over
to England, and in the following month he was arrested in London, and was brought in custody
across to Ireland. His trial took place in Dublin on the 16th of February, 1867, when the legality
of the mode of his arrest was denied by his counsel, and as it was a very doubtful question,
the point was reserved to be considered by a Court of Appeal. This tribunal sat on May the
13th, 1867, and on May the 18th, their decision confirming the conviction was pronounced. It
was not until the 21st of the following month, at the Commission of Oyer and Terminer that
he was brought up for sentence. He then delivered the following able address to show "why sentence
should not be passed on him":--

   "My lords--There are many reasons I could offer why sentence should
   not--could not--be pronounced upon me according to law, if seven
   months of absolute solitary imprisonment, and the almost total disuse
   of speech during that period, had left me energy enough, or even
   language sufficient to address the court. But yielding obedience to a
   suggestion coming from a quarter which I am bound to respect, as well
   indeed as in accordance with my own feelings, I avoid everything like
   speech-making for outside effect. Besides, the learned counsel who so
   ably represented me in the Court of Appeal, and the eminent judges
   who in that court gave judgment for me, have exhausted all that could
   be said on the law of the case. Of their arguments and opinions your
   lordships have judicial knowledge. I need not say that both in
   interest as in conviction I am in agreement with the constitutional
   principles laid down by the minority of the judges in that court, and
   I have sufficient respect for the dignity of the court--sufficient
   regard to what is due to myself--to concede fully and frankly to the
   majority a conscientious view of a novel and, it may be, a difficult
   question.

   "But I do not ask too much in asking that before your lordships
   proceed to pass any sentence you will consider the manner in which
   the court was divided on that question--to bear in mind that the
   minority declaring against the legality and the validity of the
   conviction was composed of some of the ablest and most experienced
   judges of the Irish bench or any bench--to bear in mind that one of
   these learned judges who had presided at the Commission Court was one
   of the most emphatic in the Court of Criminal Appeal in declaring
   against my liability to be tried; and moreover--and he ought to
   know--that there was not a particle of evidence to sustain the cause
   set up at the last moment, and relied upon by the crown, that I was
   an 'accessory before the fact' to that famous Dublin overt act, for
   which, as an afterthought of the crown, I was in fact tried. And I
   ask you further to bear in mind that the affirmance of the conviction
   was not had on fixed principles of law--for the question was
   unprecedented--but on a speculative view of a suppositious case, and
   I must say a strained application of an already over-strained and
   dangerous doctrine--the doctrine of constructive criminality--the
   doctrine of making a man at a distance of three thousand miles or
   more, legally responsible for the words and acts of others whom he
   had never seen, and of whom he had never heard, under the fiction, or
   the 'supposition,' that he was a co-conspirator. The word
   'supposition' is not mine, my lords; it is the word put forward
   descriptive of the point by the learned judges presiding at my trial;
   for I find in the case prepared by these judges for the Court of
   Criminal Appeal the following paragraph:--

   "'Sufficient evidence was given on the part of the crown of acts of
   members of the said association in Ireland not named in the
   indictment in promotion of the several objects aforesaid, and done
   within the county of the city of Dublin, to sustain some of the overt
   acts charged in the indictment supposing them to be the acts of the
   defendant himself.'

   "Fortified by such facts--with a court so divided, and with opinions
   so expressed--I submit that, neither according to act of parliament,
   nor in conformity with the practice at common law, nor in any way in
   pursuance of the principles of that apocryphal abstraction, that
   magnificent myth--the British constitution--am I amenable to the
   sentence of this court--or any court in this country. True, I am in
   the toils, and it may be vain to discuss how I was brought into them.
   True, my long and dreary imprisonment--shut away from all converse or
   association with humanity, in a cell twelve feet by six--the
   humiliations of prison discipline--the hardships of prison fare--the
   handcuffs, and the heartburnings--this court and its surroundings of
   power and authority--all these are 'hard practical facts,' which no
   amount of indignant protests can negative--no denunciation of the
   wrong refine away; and it may be, as I have said, worse than
   useless--vain and absurd--to question the right where might is
   predominant. But the invitation just extended to me by the officer of
   the court means, if it means anything--if it be not like the rest, a
   solemn mockery--that there still is left to me the poor privilege of
   complaint. And I do complain. I complain that law and justice have
   been alike violated in my regard--I complain that the much belauded
   attribute 'British fair play' has been for me a nullity--I complain
   that the pleasant fiction described in the books as 'personal
   freedom' has had a most unpleasant illustration in my person--and I
   furthermore and particularly complain that by the design and
   contrivance of what are called 'the authorities,' I have been brought
   to this country, not for trial but for condemnation--not for justice
   but for judgment.

   "I will not tire the patience of the court, or exhaust my own
   strength, by going over the history of this painful case--the
   kidnapping in London on the mere belief of a police-constable that I
   was a Fenian in New York--the illegal transportation to Ireland--the
   committal for trial on a specific charge, whilst a special messenger
   was despatched to New York to hunt up informers to justify the
   illegality and the outrage, and to get a foundation for any charge. I
   will not dwell on the 'conspicuous absence' of fair play, in the
   crown at the trial having closed their cases without any reference to
   the Dublin transaction, but, as an afterthought, suggested by their
   discovered failure, giving in evidence the facts and circumstances of
   that case, and thus succeeding in making the jury convict me for an
   offence with which up to that moment the crown did not intend to
   charge me. I will not say what I think of the mockery of putting me
   on trial in the Commission Court in Dublin for alleged words and acts
   in New York, and though the evidence was without notice, and the
   alleged overt acts without date, taunting me with not proving an
   alibi, and sending that important ingredient to a jury already ripe
   for a conviction. Prove an alibi to-day in respect of meetings held
   in Clinton Hall, New York, the allegations relating to which only
   came to my knowledge yesterday! I will not refer with any bitter
   feeling to the fact that whilst the validity of the conviction so
   obtained was still pending in the Court of Criminal Appeal, the Right
   Hon. and Noble the Chief Secretary for Ireland declared in the House
   of Commons that 'that conviction was the most important one at the
   Commission'--thus prejudicing my case, I will not say willingly; but
   the observation was, at least, inopportune, and for me unfortunate.

   "I will not speak my feeling on the fact that in the arguments in the
   case in the Court for Reserved Cases, the Right Hon. the
   Attorney-General appealed to the passions--if such can exist in
   judges--and not to the judgment of the court, for I gather from the
   judgment of Mr. Justice O'Hagan, that the right hon. gentleman made
   an earnest appeal 'that such crimes' as mine 'should not be allowed
   to go unpunished'.--forgetful, I will not say designedly forgetful,
   that he was addressing the judges of the land, in the highest court
   of the land, on matters of law, and not speaking to a pliant Dublin
   jury on a treason trial in the court-house of Green-street.

   "Before I proceed further, my lords, there is a matter which, as
   simply personal to myself I should not mind, but which as involving
   high interests to the community, and serious consequences to
   individuals, demand a special notice. I allude to the system of
   manufacturing informers. I want to know, if the court can inform me,
   by what right a responsible officer of the crown entered my solitary
   cell at Kilmainham prison on Monday last--unbidden and
   unexpected--uninvited and undesired. I want to know what
   justification there was for his coming to insult me in my solitude
   and in my sorrow--ostensibly informing me that I was to be brought up
   for sentence on Thursday, but in the same breath adroitly putting to
   me the question if I knew any of the men recently arrested near
   Dungarvan, and now in the prison of Kilmainham. Coming thus, with a
   detective dexterity, carrying in one hand a threat of sentence and
   punishment--in the other as a counterpoise and, I suppose an
   alternative, a temptation to treachery. Did he suppose that seven
   months of imprisonment had so broken my spirit, as well as my health,
   that I would be an easy prey to his blandishments? Did he dream that
   the prospect of liberty which newspaper rumour and semi-official
   information held out to me was too dear to be forfeited for a
   trilling forfeiture of honour? Did he believe that by an act of
   secret turpitude I would open my prison doors only to close them the
   faster on others who may or may not have been my friends--or did he
   imagine he had found in me a Massey to be moulded and manipulated
   into the service of the crown, or a Corridon to have cowardice and
   cupidity made the incentives to his baseness. I only wonder how the
   interview ended as it did; but I knew I was a prisoner, and
   self-respect preserved my patience and secured his safety. Great, my
   lords, as have been my humiliation in prison, hard and heart-breaking
   as have been the ordeals through which I have passed since the 1st of
   December last, there was no incident or event of that period fraught
   with more pain on the one hand, or more suggestiveness on the other,
   than this sly and secret attempt at improvising an informer. I can
   forget the pain in view of the suggestiveness; and unpleasant as is
   my position here to-day, I am almost glad of the opportunity which
   may end in putting some check to the spy system in prisons. How many
   men have been won from honour and honesty by the stealthy visit to
   the cell is more of course than I can say--how many have had their
   weakness acted upon, or their wickness fanned into flame by which
   means I have no opportunity of knowing--in how many frailty and folly
   may have blossomed into falsehood it is for those concerned to
   estimate. There is one thing, however, certain--operating in this way
   is more degrading to the tempter than to the tempted; and the
   government owes it to itself to put an end to a course of tactics
   pursued in its name, which in the results can only bring its
   humiliation--the public are bound in self-protection to protect the
   prisoner from the prowling visits of a too zealous official.

   "I pass over all these things, my lords, and I ask your attention to
   the character of the evidence on which alone my conviction was
   obtained. The evidence of a special, subsidized spy, and of an
   infamous and ingrate informer.

   "In all ages, and amongst all peoples, the spy has been held in
   marked abhorrence. In the amnesties of war there is for him alone no
   quarter; in the estimate of social life no toleration; his
   self-abasement excites contempt, not compassion; his patrons despise
   while they encourage; and they who stoop to enlist the services
   shrink with disgust from the moral leprosy covering the servitor. Of
   such was the witness put forward to corroborate the informer, and
   still not corroborating him. Of such was that phenomenon, a police
   spy, who declared himself an unwilling witness for the crown! There
   was no reason why in my regard he should be unwilling--he knew me not
   previously. I have no desire to speak harshly of Inspector Doyle; he
   said in presence of the Crown Solicitor, and was not contradicted,
   that he was compelled by threats to ascend the witness table; he may
   have had cogent reasons for his reluctance in his own conscience. God
   will judge him.

   "But how shall I speak of the informer, Mr. John Devany? What
   language should be employed in describing the character of one who
   adds to the guilt of perfidy to his associates the crime of perjury
   to his God?--the man who eating of your bread, sharing your
   confidence, and holding, as it were, your very purse-strings, all the
   time meditates your overthrow and pursues it to its accomplishment?
   How paint the wretch who, under pretence of agreement in your
   opinions, worms himself into your secrets only to betray them; and
   who, upon the same altar with you, pledges his faith and fealty to
   the same principles, and then sells faith, and fealty, and
   principles, and you alike, for the unhallowed Judas guerdon? Of such,
   on his own confession was that distinguished upholder of the British
   crown and government, Mr. Devany. With an affrontery that did not
   falter, and knew not how to blush, he detailed his own participation
   in the acts for which he was prosecuting me as a participator. And is
   the evidence of a man like that--a conviction obtained upon such
   evidence--any warrant for a sentence depriving me of all that make
   life desirable or enjoyable?

   "He was first spy for the crown--in the pay of the crown, under the
   control of the crown, and think you he had any other object than to
   do the behests of the crown?

   "He was next the traitor spy, who had taken that one fatal step, from
   which in this life there is no retrogression--that one plunge in
   infamy from which there is no receding--that one treachery for which
   there is no earthly forgiveness; and, think you, he hesitated about a
   prejury more or less to secure present pay and future patronage? Here
   was one to whom existence offers now no prospect save in making his
   perfidy a profession, and think you he was deterred by conscience
   from recommending himself to his patrons? Think you that when at a
   distance of three thousand miles from the scenes he professed to
   describe, he could lie with impunity and invent without detection, he
   was particular to a shade in doing his part of a most filthy bargain?
   It is needless to describe a wretch of that kind--his own actions
   speak his character. It were superfluous to curse him, his whole
   existence will be a living, a continuing curse. No necessity to use
   the burning words of the poet and say:--

   "'May life's unblessed cup for him
   Be drugged with treacheries to the brim.'

   "Every sentiment in his regard of the country he has dishonoured, and
   the people he has humbled, will be one of horror and hate. Every sigh
   sent up from the hearts he has crushed and the homes he has made
   desolate, will be mingled with execrations on the name of the
   informer. Every heart-throb in the prison cells of this land where
   his victims count time by corroding his thought--every grief that
   finds utterance from these victims in the quarries of Portland will
   go up to heaven freighted with curses on the Nagles, the Devanys, the
   Masseys, the Gillespies, the Corridons, and the whole host of
   mercenary miscreants, who, faithless to their friends and recreant to
   their professions, have, paraphrasing the words of Moore, taken their
   perfidy to heaven seeking to make accomplice of their God--wretches
   who have embalmed their memories in imperishable infamy, and given
   their accursed names to an inglorious immortality. Nor will I
   speculate on their career in the future. We have it on the best
   existing authority that a distinguished informer of antiquity seized
   with remorse, threw away his blood-money, 'went forth and hanged
   himself.' We know that in times within the memory of living men a
   government actually set the edifying and praiseworthy example of
   hanging an informer when they had no further use of his valuable
   services--thus dropping his acquaintance with effect. I have no
   wish for such a fate to any of the informers who have cropped out so
   luxuriantly in these latter days--a long life and a troubled
   conscience would, perhaps, be their correct punishment--though
   certainly there would be a consistent compensation--a poetic
   justice--in a termination so exalted to a career so brilliant.

   "I leave these fellows and turn for a moment to their victims. And, I
   would here, without any reference to my own case, earnestly implore
   that sympathy with political sufferers should not be merely
   telescopic in its character, 'distance lending enchantment to the
   view;' and that when your statesmen sentimentalize upon, and your
   journalists denounce far-away tyrannies--the horrors of Neapolitan
   dungeons--the abridgement of personal freedom in Continental
   countries--the exercise of arbitrary power by irresponsible authority
   in other lands--they would turn their eyes homeward, and examine the
   treatment and the sufferings of their own political prisoners. I
   would, in all sincerity, suggest that humane and well-meaning men,
   who exert themselves for the remission of the death-penalty as a
   mercy, would rather implore that the doors of solitary and silent
   captivity should be remitted to the more merciful doom of an
   immediate relief from suffering by immediate execution--the
   opportunity of an immediate appeal from man's cruelty to God's
   justice. I speak strongly on this point because I feel it deeply. I
   speak not without example. At the Commission at which I was tried
   there was tried also and sentenced a young man named Stowell. I well
   remember that raw and dreary morning, the 12th March, when handcuffed
   to Stowell I was sent from Kilmainham Prison to the County Gaol of
   Kildare. I well remember our traversing, so handcuffed, from the town
   of Sailing to the town of Naas, ancle deep in snow and mud, and I
   recall now with pain our sad foreboding of that morning. These in
   part have been fulfilled. Sunday after Sunday I saw poor Stowell at
   chapel in Naas Gaol drooping and dying. One such Sunday--the 12th
   May--passed and I saw him no more. On Wednesday, the 15th, he was, as
   they say, mercifully released from prison, but the fiat of mercy
   had previously gone forth from a higher power--the political convict
   simply reached his own home to die, with loving eyes watching by his
   death-bed. On Sunday, the 19th May, he was consigned to another
   prison home in Glasnevin Cemetery. May God have mercy on his
   soul--may God forgive his persecutors--may God give peace and
   patience to those who are doomed to follow.

   "Pardon this digression, my lords, I could not avoid it. Returning to
   the question, why sentence should not be pronounced upon me, I would
   ask your lordships' attention to the fact showing, even in the
   estimate of the crown, the case is not one for sentence.

   "On the morning of my trial, and before the trial, terms were offered
   to me by the crown. The direct proposition was made through my
   solicitor, through the learned counsel who so ably defended me,
   through the Governor of Kilmainham Prison--by all three--that if I
   pleaded guilty to the indictment, I should get off with six months'
   imprisonment. Knowing the pliancy of Dublin juries in political
   cases, the offer was, doubtless, a tempting one. Valuing liberty, it
   was almost resistless--in view of a possible penal servitude--but
   having regard to principle, I spurned the compromise. I then gave
   unhesitatingly, as I would now give, the answer, that not for a
   reduction of the punishment to six hours would I surrender
   faith--that I need never look, and could never look, wife or
   children, friends or family, in the face if capable of such a selfish
   cowardice. I could not to save myself imperil the safety of others--I
   could not plead guilty to an indictment in which six others were
   distinctly charged by name as co-conspirators with me--one of those
   six since tried, convicted, and sentenced to death--I could not
   consent to obtain my own pardon at their expense--furnish the crown
   with a case in point for future convictions, and become, even though
   indirectly, worthy to rank with that brazen battalion of venal
   vagabonds, who have made the Holy Gospel of God the medium of barter
   for their unholy gain, and obtained access to the inmost heart of
   their selected victim only to coin its throbbing into the traitor's
   gold and traffic on its very life-blood.

   "Had I been charged simply with my own words and deeds I would have
   no hesitation in making acknowledgement. I have nothing to repent
   and nothing to conceal--nothing to retract and nothing to
   countermand; but in the language of the learned Lord Chief Baron in
   this case, I could not admit 'the preposterous idea of thinking by
   deputy' any more than I could plead guilty to an indictment which
   charge others with crime. Further, my lords, I could not acknowledge
   culpability for the acts and words of others at a distance of three
   thousand miles--others whom I had never seen, of whom I had never
   heard, and with whom I never had had communication. I could not admit
   that the demoniac atrocities, described as Fenian principles by the
   constabulary-spy Talbot, ever had my sanction or approval or the
   sanction or approval of any man in America.

   "If, my lords, six months' imprisonment was the admeasurement of the
   law officers of the crown as an adequate punishment for my alleged
   offence--assuming that the court had jurisdiction to try and
   punish--then, am I now entitled to my discharge independent of all
   other grounds of discharge, for I have gone through seven months of
   an imprisonment which could not be excelled by demon ingenuity in
   horror and in hardship--in solitude, in silence and in suspense. Your
   lordships will not only render further litigation necessary by
   passing sentence for the perhaps high crime--but still the untried
   crime--of refusing to yield obedience to the crown's proposition for
   my self-abasement. You will not, I am sure, visit upon my rejection
   of Mr. Anderson's delicate overture--you will not surely permit the
   events occurring, unhappily occurring, since my trial to influence
   your judgments. And do not, I implore you, accept as a truth,
   influencing that judgement, Talbot's definition of the objects of
   Feminism. Hear what Devany, the American informer, describes them to
   be. 'The members,' he says, 'were pledged by word of honour to
   promote love and harmony amongst all classes of Irishmen and to
   labour for the independence of Ireland.' Talbot says that in Ireland
   'the members are bound by oath to seize the property of the
   country and murder all opposed to them.' Can any two principles be
   more distinct from each other? Could there be a conspiracy for a
   common object by such antagonistic means? To murder all opposed to
   your principles may be an effectual way of producing unanimity, but
   the quality of love and harmony engendered by such a patent process,
   would be extremely equivocal. Mr. Talbot, for the purposes of his
   evidence, must have borrowed a leaf from the History of the French
   Revolution, and adopted as singularly telling and appropriate for
   effect the saying attributed to Robespiere: 'Let us cut everybody's
   throat but our own, and then we are sure to be masters.'

   "No one in America, I venture to affirm, ever heard of such designs
   in connexion with the Fenian Brotherhood. No one in America would
   countenance such designs. Revolutionists are not ruffians or
   rapparees. A judge from the bench at Cork, and a noble lord in his
   place in parliament, bore testimony to that fact, in reference to the
   late movement; and I ask you, my lords--I would ask the country from
   this court--for the sake of the character of your countrymen--to
   believe Devany's interpretation of Fenianism--tainted traitor though
   he be--rather than believe that the kindly instincts of Irishmen, at
   home and abroad--their generous impulses--their tender
   sensibilities--all their human affections, in a word--could
   degenerate into the attributes of the assassin, as stated by that
   hog-in-armour, that crime-creating Constable Talbot.

   "Taking other ground, my lords, I object to any sentence upon me. I
   stand at this bar a declared citizen of the United States of America,
   entitled to the protection of such citizenship; and I protest against
   the right to pass any sentence in any British court for acts done, or
   words spoken, or alleged to be done or spoken, on American soil,
   within the shades of the American flag, and under the sanction of
   American institutions. I protest against the assumption that would in
   this country limit the right of thought, or control the liberty of
   speech in an assemblage of American citizens in an American city. The
   United States will, doubtless, respect and protect her neutrality
   laws and observe the comity of nations, whatever they may mean in
   practice, but I protest against the monstrous fiction--the
   transparent fraud--that would seek in ninety years after the
   evacuation of New York by the British to bring the people of New York
   within the vision and venue of a British jury--that in ninety years
   after the last British bayonet had glistened in an American sunlight,
   after the last keel of the last of the English fleet ploughed its
   last furrow in the Hudson or the Delaware--after ninety years of
   republican independence--would seek to restore that city of New York
   and its institutions to the dominion of the crown and government of
   Great Britain. This is the meaning of it, and disguise it as you may,
   so will it be interpreted beyond the Atlantic. Not that the people of
   America care one jot whether S.J. Meany were hanged, drawn, and
   quartered to-morrow, but that there is a great principle involved.
   Personally, I am of no consequence; politically, I represent in this
   court the adopted citizen of America--for, as the New York Herald,
   referring to this case, observed, if the acts done in my regard are
   justifiable, there is nothing to prevent the extension of the same
   justice to any other adopted citizen of the States visiting Great
   Britain. It is, therefore, in the injustice of the case the influence
   lies, and not in the importance of the individual.

   "Law is called 'the perfection of reason.' Is there not danger of its
   being regarded as the very climax of absurdity if fictions of this
   kind can be turned into realities on the mere caprice of power. As a
   distinguished English journalist has suggested in reference to the
   case, 'though the law may doubtless be satisfied by the majority in
   the Court of Appeal, yet common sense and common law would be widely
   antagonistic if sentence were to follow a judgment so obtained.'

   "On all grounds then I submit, in conclusion, this is not a case for
   sentence. Waving for the purpose the international objection, and
   appealing to British practice itself, I say it is not a fair case for
   sentence. The professed policy of that practice has ever been to give
   the benefit of doubt to the prisoner. Judges in their charges to
   juries have ever theorized on this principle, and surely judges
   themselves will not refuse to give practical effect to the theory. If
   ever there was a case which more than another was suggestive of
   doubt, it is surely one in which so many judges have pronounced
   against the legality of the trial and the validity of the conviction
   on which you are about to pass sentence. Each of these judges, be it
   remembered, held competent in his individuality to administer the
   criminal law of the country--each of whom, in fact, in his
   individuality does so administer it unchallenged and unquestioned.

   "A sentence under such circumstances, be it for a long period or a
   short would be wanting in the element of moral effect--the effect of
   example--which could alone give it value, and which is professedly
   the aim of all legal punishment. A sentence under such circumstances
   would be far from reassuring to the public mind as to the
   'certainties' of the law, and would fail to commend the approval or
   win the respect of any man 'within the realm or without.' While to
   the prisoner, to the sufferer in chief, it would only bring the
   bitter, and certainly not the repentant feeling that he suffered in
   the wrong--that he was the victim of an injustice based on an
   inference which not even the tyrant's plea of necessity can
   sustain--namely, that at a particular time he was at a distance of
   three thousand miles from the place where he then actually stood in
   bodily presence, and that at that distance he actually thought the
   thoughts and acted the acts of men unknown to him even by name. It
   will bring to the prisoner, I repeat, the feeling--the bitter
   feeling--that he was condemned on an unindicted charge pressed
   suddenly into the service, and for a constructive crime which some of
   the best authorities in the law have declared not to be a crime
   cognizable in any of your courts.

   "Let the crown put forward any supposition they please--indulge in
   what special pleadings they will--sugar over the bitter pill of
   constructive conspiracy as they can--to this complexion must come the
   triangular injustice of this case--the illegal and unconstitutional
   kidnapping in England--the unfair and invalid trial and conviction in
   Ireland for the alleged offence in another hemisphere and under
   mother sovereignty. My lords, I have done."

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN JOHN M'CLURE.

Captain John M'Clure, like Captain M'Afferty, was an American born, but of Irish parentage.
He was born at Dobb's Ferry, twenty-two miles from New York, on July 17th, 1846, and he was
therefore a mere youth when, serving with distinguished gallantry in the Federal ranks, he
attained the rank of captain. He took part in the Fenian rising of the 5th March, and was prominently
concerned in the attack and capture of Knockadoon coast-guard station. He and his companion,
Edward Kelly, were captured by a military party at Kilclooney Wood, on March 31st, after a
smart skirmish, in which their compatriot the heroic and saintly Peter Crowley lost his life.
His trial took place before the Special Commission at Cork, on May 22nd and 23rd, 1807. The
following are the spirited and eloquent terms in which he addressed the court previous to sentence
being pronounced on him:--

   "My lords--In answer to the question as to why the sentence of the
   court should not now be passed upon me, I would desire to make a few
   remarks in relation to my late exertions in behalf of the suffering
   people of this country, in aiding them in their earnest endeavours to
   attain the independence of their native land. Although not born upon
   the soil of Ireland, my parents were, and from history, and
   tradition, and fireside relations, I became conversant with the
   country's history from my earliest childhood, and as the human race
   will ever possess these God-like qualities which inspire mankind with
   sympathy for the suffering, a desire to aid poor Ireland to rise from
   her moral degradation took possession of me. I do not now wish to say
   to what I assign the failure of that enterprise with which are
   associated my well-meant acts for this persecuted land. I feel fully
   satisfied of the righteousness of my every act in connexion with the
   late revolutionary movement in this country, being actuated by a holy
   desire to assist in the emancipation of an enslaved and generous
   people. I derive more pleasure from having done the act than from any
   other event that has occurred to me during my eventful but youthful
   life. I wish it to be distinctly understood here, standing as I do
   perhaps on the brink of an early grave, that I am no fillibuster or
   freebooter, and that I had no personal object or inclination to gain
   anything in coming to this country. I came solely through love of
   Ireland and sympathy for her people. If I have forfeited my life. I
   am ready to abide the issue. If my exertions on behalf of a
   distressed people be a crime, I am willing to pay the penalty,
   knowing, as I do, that what I have done was in behalf of a people
   whose cause is just--a people who will appreciate and honour a man,
   although he may not be a countryman of their own--still a man who is
   willing to suffer in defence of that divine, that American
   principle--the right of self-government. I would wish to tender to my
   learned and eloquent counsel, Mr. Heron and Mr. Waters, and to my
   solicitor, Mr. Collins, my sincere and heartfelt thanks for the able
   manner in which they have conducted my defence. And now, my lords, I
   trust I will meet in a becoming manner the penalty which it is now
   the duty of your lordship to pronounce upon me. I have nothing more
   to say."

       *       *       *       *       *

EDWARD KELLY.

On the same occasion the prisoner Edward Kelly delivered the following soul-stirring address:--

   "My lords--The novelty of my situation will plead for any want of
   fluency on my part; and I beg your lordships' indulgence if I am
   unnecessarily tedious. I have to thank the gentlemen of the jury for
   their recommendation, which I know was well meant; but knowing, as I
   do, what that mercy will be, I heartily wish that recommendation will
   not be received. Why should I feel regret? What is death? The act of
   passing from this life into the next. I trust that God will pardon me
   my sins, and that I will have no cause to fear entering into the
   presence of the ever-living and Most Merciful Father. I don't
   recollect in my life ever having done anything with a deliberately
   bad intention. In my late conduct I do not see anything for regret.
   Why then, I say, should I feel regret? I leave the dread of death to
   such wretches as Corridon and Massey--Corridon, a name once so
   suggestive of sweetness and peace, now the representative of a
   loathsome monster. If there be anything that can sink that man,
   Corridon, lower in the scales of degradation, it is--"

   The Chief Justice--"We cannot listen to any imputation on persons who
   were examined as witnesses. Strictly speaking, you are only to say
   why sentence of death should not be passed upon you; at the same time
   we are very unwilling to hold a very strict hand, but we cannot allow
   imputations to be made on third persons, witnesses or others, who
   have come forward in this trial."

   Prisoner--"Well, my lord, I will answer as well as I can the question
   put to me. The Irish people through every generation ever since
   England has obtained a footing in Ireland, have protested against the
   occupation of our native soil by the English. Surely that is answer
   enough why sentence of death should not be passed upon me. In the
   part I have taken in the late insurrection, I feel conscious that I
   was doing right. Next to serving his Creator, I believe it is a man's
   solemn duty to serve his country. [Here the prisoner paused to
   suppress his emotion, which rendered his utterance very feeble, and
   continued]--my lords, I have nothing more to say, except to quote the
   words of the sacred psalmist, in which you will understand that I
   speak of my country as he speaks of his:--'If I forget thee, O
   Jerusalem, let my right hand be forgotten, let my tongue cleave to my
   jaws if I do not remember thee: if I make not Jerusalem the beginning
   of my joy. O
   daughter of Babylon, miserable: blessed be he who shall repay thee
   thy payment which thou hast paid us.' In conclusion, my lords, I
   wish to give my thanks to my attorney, Mr. Collins, for his untiring
   exertions, and also to my counsel, Mr. Heron, for his able defence,
   and to Mr. Waters."

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN WILLIAM MACKAY.

In the evidence adduced at the Cork Summer Assizes of 1867, on the trials of persons charged
with participation in the Fenian rising of March 5th, the name of Captain Mackay frequently
turned up. The captain, it would appear, was a person of influence and importance in the insurrectionary
army. He had taken part in many councils of the Fenian leaders, he was trusted implicitly by
his political friends, and much deference was paid to his opinion. But more than all this,
he had taken the field on the night of the rising, led his men gallantly to the attack of Ballyknockane
police barrack, and, to the-great horror of all loyal subjects, committed the enormous offence
of capturing it. This, and the similar successes achieved by Lennon at Stepaside and Glencullen,
county Wicklow, were some of the incidents of the attempted rebellion which most annoyed the
government, who well knew the influence which such events, occurring at the outset of a revolutionary
movement, are apt to exercise on the popular mind. Captain Mackay, therefore, was badly "wanted"
by the authorities after the Fenian rising; there was any money to be given for information
concerning the whereabouts of Captain Mackay, but it came not. Every loyal-minded policeman
in Cork county, and in all the other Irish counties, and every detective, and every spy, and
every traitor in the pay of the government, kept a sharp look out for the audacious Captain
Mackay, who had compelled the garrison of one of her Majesty's police barracks to surrender
to him, and hand him up their arms in the quietest and most polite manner imaginable; but they
saw him not, or if they saw, they did not recognise him.

So month after month rolled on, and no trace of Captain Mackay could be had. The vigilant guardians
and servants of English law in Ireland, then began to think he must have managed to get clear
out of the country, and rather expected that the next thing they would hear of him would be
that he was organizing and lecturing amongst the Irish enemies of England in the United States.
There, however, they were quite mistaken, as they soon found out to their very great vexation
and alarm.

On the 27th day of December, 1867, there was strange news in Cork, and strange news all over
the country, for the telegraph wires spread it in every direction. The news was that on the
previous evening a party of Fenians had entered the Martello tower at Foaty, on the north side
of the Cork river, made prisoners of the gunners who were in charge, and had then taken possession
of, and borne away all the arms and ammunition they could find in the place! Startling news
this was undoubtedly. Loyal men stopped each other in the streets, and asked if anything like
it had ever been heard of. They wanted to know if things were not coming to a pretty pass,
and did not hesitate to say they would feel greatly obliged to anyone who could answer for
them the question "What next?" For this sack of the Martello tower was not the first successful
raid for arms which the Fenians had made in that neighbourhood. About a month before--on the
night of November 28th--they had contrived to get into the shop of Mr. Richardson, gunmaker,
Patrick-street, and abstract from the premises no fewer than 120 revolvers and eight Snider
rifles, accomplishing the feat so skilfully, that no trace either of the weapons or the depredators
had since been discovered. This was what might be called a smart stroke of work, but it shrunk
into insignificance compared with the audacious act of plundering one of her Majesty's fortified
stations.

The details of the affair, which were soon known, were received by the public with mingled
feelings of amusement and amazement. The Fenian party, it was learned, had got into the tower
by the usual means of entrance--a step-ladder, reaching to the door, which is situate at some
height from the ground. One party of the invaders remained in the apartment just inside the
entrance door, while another numbering five persons, proceeded to an inner room, where they
found two of the gunners, with their families, just in the act of sitting down to tea. In an
instant revolvers were placed at the heads of the men, who were told not to stir on peril of
their lives. At the same time assurances were given to them, and to the affrighted women, that
if they only kept quiet and complied with the demands of the party no harm whatever should
befal them. The garrison saw that resistance was useless, and promptly acceded to those terms.
The invaders then asked for and got the keys of the magazine, which they handed out to their
friends, who forthwith set to work to remove the ammunition which they found stored in the
vaults. They seized about 300 lbs. of gunpowder, made up in 8 lb. cartridges, a quantity of
fuses, and other military stores, and then proceeded to search the entire building for arms.
Of these, however, they found very little--nothing more than the rifles and sword bayonets
of the two or three men who constituted the garrison, a circumstance which seemed to occasion
them much disappointment. They were particularly earnest and pressing in their inquiries for
hand-grenades, a species of missile which they had supposed was always kept "in stock" in such
places. They could scarcely believe that there were none to be had. Some charges of grape-shot
which they laid hands on might be, they thought, the sort of weapon they were in quest of,
and they proceeded to dissect and analyse one of them. Grape-shot, we may explain to the unlearned
in these matters, is "an assemblage, in the form of a cylindrical column, of nine balls resting
on a circular plate, through which passes a pin serving as an axis. The balls are contained
in a strong canvas bag, and are bound together on the exterior of the latter by a cord disposed
about the column in the manner of a net." This was not the sort of thing the Fenian party wanted;
grape-shot could be of no use to them, for the Fenian organization, to its great sorrow, was
possessed of no artillery; they resolved, therefore, to leave those ingeniously-constructed
packages behind them, and to retire with the more serviceable spoils they had gathered. While
the search was proceeding, the Fenian sentries, with revolvers ready in their hands, stood
guard over the gunners, and prevented anyone--young or old--from quitting the room. They spoke
kindly to all however, chatted with the women, and won the affectionate regards of the youngsters
by distributing money among them. One of these strange visitors became so familiar as to tell
one of the women that if she wished to know who he was, his name was Captain Mac--a piece of
information which did not strike her at the time as being of any peculiar value. When the party
had got their booty safely removed from the building, this chivalrous captain and his four
assistant sentries prepared to leave; they cautioned the gunners, of whom there were three
at this time in the building--one having entered while the search was proceeding--against quitting
the fort till morning, stating that men would be on the watch outside to shoot them if they
should attempt it. So much being said and done, they bade a polite good evening to her Majesty's
gunners and their interesting families, and withdrew.

The heroic garrison did not venture out immediately after they had been relieved of the presence
of the Fenian party; but finding that a few charges of powder were still stowed away in a corner
of the fort, they hurried with them to the top of the building and commenced to blaze away
from the big gun which was there in situ. This performance they meant as a signal of distress;
but though the sounds were heard and the flashes seen far and wide, no one divined the object
of what appeared to be nothing more than an oddly-timed bit of artillery practice. Next morning
the whole story was in every one's mouth. Vast was the amusement which it afforded to the Corkonians
generally, and many were the encomiums which they passed on the dashing Irish-Americans and
smart youths of Cork's own town who had accomplished so daring and clever a feat. Proportionally
great was the irritation felt by the sprinkling of loyalists and by the paid servants of the
crown in that quarter. One hope at all events the latter party had, that the leader in the
adventure would soon be "in the hands of justice," and one comforting assurance, that never
again would the Fenians be able to replenish their armoury in so easy and so unlawful a manner.

Four days afterwards there was another "sensation" in Cork. The Fenian collectors of arms had
made another haul! And this time their mode of action surpassed all their previous performances
in coolness and daring. At nine o'clock in the morning, on the 30th of December, eight men,
who had assumed no disguise, suddenly entered the shop of Mr. Henry Allport, gunmaker, of Patrick-street,
and producing revolvers from their pockets, covered him and his two assistants, telling then
at the same time that if they ventured to stir, or raise any outcry, they were dead men. While
the shopmen remained thus bound to silence, five of the party proceeded to collect all the
rifles and revolvers in the establishment, and place them in a canvas sack which had been brought
for the purpose. This sack, into which a few guns and seventy-two splendid revolvers of the
newest construction had been put, was then carried off by two men, who, having transferred
the contents to the safe-keeping of some confederates, returned with it very quickly to receive
and bear away a large quantity of revolver cartridges which had been found in the shop. This
second "loot" having been effected, the guards who stood over Mr. Allport and his men, lowered
their weapons, and after cautioning all three not to dare to follow them, quitted the shop
in a leisurely manner, and disappeared down one of the by-streets. As soon as he was able to
collect his scattered wits, Mr. Allport rushed to the nearest police station, and gave information
of what had occurred. The police hastened to the scene of this daring exploit, but of course
"the birds were flown," and no one could say whither.

Needless to say how this occurrence intensified the perplexity and the rage of the government
party in all parts of the country. There was surely some fierce swearing in Dublin Castle on
the day that news arrived, and perhaps many a passionate query blurted out as to whether police,
detectives, magistrates, and all in that southern district were not secretly in league with
the rebels. In fact, a surmise actually got into the papers that the proprietors of the gunshops
knew more about the disappearance of the arms, and were less aggrieved by the "seizure" than
they cared to acknowledge. However this might be, the popular party enjoyed the whole thing
immensely, laughed over it heartily, and expressed in strong terms their admiration of the
skill and daring displayed by the operators. The following squib, which appeared in the Nation
at the time, over the initials "T.D.S.," affords an indication of the feelings excited among
Irish nationalists by those extraordinary occurrences:--

   THE CORK MEN AND NEW YORK MEN

       Oh, the gallant Cork men,
       Mixed with New York men,
   I'm sure their equals they can't be found,
       For persevering
       In deeds of daring,
   They set men staring the world around.
       No spies can match them,
       No sentries watch them,
   No specials catch them or mar their play,
       While the clever Cork men
       And cute New York men
   Work new surprises by night and day.

       Sedate and steady,
       Calm, quick, and ready,
   They boldly enter, and make no din.
       Where'er such trifles
       As Snider rifles
   And bright six-shooters are stored within.
       The Queen's round towers
       Can't baulk their powers,
   Off go the weapons by sea and shore,
       To where the Cork men
       And smart New York men
   Are daily piling their precious store.

       John Bull, in wonder,
       With voice like thunder,
   Declares such plunder he roust dislike,
       They next may rowl in
       And sack Haulbowline,
   Or on a sudden run off with Spike.
      His peace is vanished,
       His joys are banished,
   And gay or happy no more he'll be,
       Until those Cork men
       And wild New York men
   Are sunk together beneath the sea.

       Oh, bold New York men
       And daring Cork men,
   We own your pleasures should all grow dim,
       On thus discerning
       And plainly learning
   That your amusement gives pain to him.
       Yet, from the nation,
       This salutation
   Leaps forth, and echoes with thunderous sound--
       "Here's to all Cork men,
       Likewise New York men,
   Who stand for Ireland, the world around!"

But Captain Mackay, skilful and "lucky" as he was, was trapped at last.

On the evening of the 7th of February, 1868, he walked into the grocery and spirit shop of
Mr. Cronin in Market-street--not to drink whiskey or anything of that sort, for he was a man
of strictly temperate habits, and he well knew that of all men those who are engaged in the
dangerous game of conspiracy and revolution can least afford to partake of drinks that may
unloose their tongues and let their wits run wild. He called for a glass of lemonade, and recognising
some persons who were in the shop at the time, he commenced a conversation with them.

Only a few minutes from the time of his entrance had elapsed when a party of police, wearing
a disguise over their uniforms, rushed into the shop, and commanded the door to be shut.

The men inside attempted to separate and escape, but they were instantly grappled by the police.
One of the force seized Captain Mackay by the collar, and a vigorous struggle between them
at once commenced. The policeman was much the larger man of the two, but the Fenian Captain
was wiry and muscular, and proved quite a match for him. They fell, and rose, and fell, and
rose again, the policeman undermost sometimes, and at other times the Fenian Captain. They
struggled for nearly twenty minutes.

"Dead or alive, I'll take you," said the policeman, as he drew his revolver from his pocket.

"I have but one life, to lose, and if it goes, so be it," replied Mackay drawing a weapon of
the same kind.

In another instant there was a clash as of striking steel, and a discharge of one of the weapons.

"Good God! I'm shot!" exclaimed Constable Casey from, the end of the room, and he fell upon
the floor.

Captain Mackay's revolver had gone off in the struggle, and the ball had struck the constable
in the leg, inflicting on him a serious wound.

By this time several parties of police had arrived in the street and stationed themselves so
as to prevent the formation of a crowd and deter the people from any attempt at rescue. A reinforcement
having turned into the house in which the struggle was going on, Captain Mackay and others
who had been in his company were made prisoners, and marched off in custody.

Some days afterwards, the wounded constable, who had refused to submit to amputation of the
wounded limb, died in hospital.

On the 10th of March, 1868, at the Cork Assizes, Judge O'Hagan presiding, Captain Mackay was
put on his trial for murder. The evidence established a probability that the discharge of the
prisoner's revolver was not intended or effected by him, but was a consequence of its having
been struck by the revolver of the policeman who was struggling with him. The verdict of the
jury therefore was one of acquittal.

But then came the other charge against him, the charge of treason-felony, for his connexion
with the Fenian Brotherhood, and his part in the recent "rising." For this he was put on trial
on the 20th day of March. He was ably defended by Mr. Heron, Q.C.; but the evidence against
him was conclusive. To say nothing of the testimony of the informers, which should never for
a moment be regarded as trustworthy, there was the evidence and the identification supplied
by the gunners of the Martello tower and their wives, and the policemen of Ballyknockane station
and the wife of one of them. This evidence while establishing the fact that the prisoner had
been concerned in the levying of war against the crown, established also the fact that he was
a man as chivalrous and gentle as he was valorous and daring. Some of the incidents proved
to have occurred during the attack which was made, under his leadership, on the police barrack,
are worthy of special mention in any sketch, however brief, of the life and adventures of this
remarkable man. After he, at the head of his party, had demanded the surrender of the barrack
in the name of the Irish Republic, the police fired, and the fire was returned. Then the insurgents
broke in the door and set fire to the lower part of the barrack. Still the police held out.
"Surrender!" cried the insurgents; "You want to commit suicide, but we don't want to commit
murder." One of the policemen then cried out that a little girl, his daughter, was inside,
and asked if the attacking party would allow her to be passed out? Of course they would, gladly;
and the little girl was taken out of the window with all tenderness, and given up to her mother
who had chanced to be outside the barrack when the attack commenced. At this time a Catholic
clergyman, the Rev. Mr. Neville, came on the spot. He asked the insurgent leader whether, if
the police surrendered, any harm would be done to them? "Here is my revolver," said Captain
Mackay, "let the contents of it be put through me if one of them should be injured." Well did
Mr. Heron in his able speech, referring to these facts, say, "Though they were rebels who acted
that heroic part, who could say their hearts, were not animated with the courage of Leonidas,
and the chivalry of Bayard."

On the second day of the trial the jury brought in their verdict, declaring the prisoner guilty,
but at the same time recommending him to the merciful consideration of the court, because of
the humanity which he had displayed towards the men whom he had in his power. The finding took
no one by surprise, and did not seem to trouble the prisoner in the faintest degree. During
the former trial some shades of anxiety might have been detected on his features; the charge
of "murder" was grievous to him, but when that was happily disposed of, the world seemed to
brighten before him, and he took his treason-felony trial cheerily. He knew what the verdict
on the evidence would be, and he was conscious that the penalty to be imposed on him would
be no trivial one; he felt that it was hard to part from faithful comrades, and dear friends,
and, above all, from the young wife whom he had married only a few short months before; but
then it was in Ireland's cause he was about to suffer, and for that he could endure all.

And yet, Ireland was not his native land. He was born in Cincinnatti, Ohio, in the year 1841.
But his parents, who were natives of Castle-Lyons, near Fermoy, in the County Cork, were true
children of Erin, and they taught their son to love, even as they did themselves, that green
isle far away, from which a hard fate had compelled them to roam. Patriotism, indeed, was hereditary
in the family. The great-grandfather of our hero suffered death for his fidelity to the cause
of Ireland in the memorable year 1798; and a still-more remarkable fact is that Captain Mackay--or
William Francis Lomasney, to call him by his real name--in leaving America for Ireland in 1865
to take part in the contemplated rising, merely took the place which his father wished and
intended to occupy. The young man induced him, to remain at home, and claimed for himself the
post of danger. Well may that patriotic father be proud of such a son.

When called upon for such remarks as he might have to offer on his own behalf, Captain Mackay,
without any of the airs of a practised speaker, but yet with a manner that somehow touched
every heart and visibly affected the humane and upright judge who sat on the bench, delivered
the following address:--

   "My lord--What I said last evening I think calls for a little
   explanation. I then said I was fully satisfied with the verdict--that
   it was a fair and just one. I say so still, but I wish to state that
   I consider it only so in accordance with British law, and that it is
   not in accordance with my ideas of right and justice. I feel that
   with the strong evidence there was against me, according to British
   law, the jury could not, as conscientious men, do otherwise. I feel
   that. I thank them again for their recommendation to mercy, which, I
   have no doubt, was prompted by a good intention towards me, and a
   desire to mitigate what they considered would he a long and painful
   imprisonment. Still, I will say, with all respect, that I feel the
   utmost indifference to it. I do so for this reason--I am now in that
   position that I must rely entirely upon the goodness of God, and I
   feel confident that He will so dispose events that I will not remain
   a prisoner so long as your lordship may be pleased to decree. The
   jury having now found me guilty, it only remains for your lordship to
   give effect to their verdict. The eloquence, the ability, the clear
   reasoning, and the really splendid arguments of my counsel failed, as
   I knew they would, to affect the jury. I feel, therefore, that with
   my poor talents it would be utterly vain and useless for me to
   attempt to stay the sentence which it now becomes your lordship's
   duty to pronounce. I believe, my lord, from what I have seen of your
   lordship, and what I have heard of you, it will be to you a painful
   duty to inflict that sentence upon me. To one clinging so much to the
   world and its joys--to its fond ties and pleasant associations, as I
   naturally do, retirement into banishment is seldom--very
   seldom--welcome. Of that, however, I do not complain. But to any man
   whose heart glows with the warmest impulses and the most intense love
   of freedom; strongly attached to kind friends, affectionate parents,
   loving brother and sisters, and a devotedly fond and loving wife, the
   contemplation of a long period of imprisonment must appear most
   terrible and appalling. To me, however, viewing it from a purely
   personal point of view, and considering the cause for which I am
   about to suffer, far from being dismayed--far from its discouraging
   me--it proves to me rather a source of joy and comfort. True, it is a
   position not to be sought--not to be looked for--it is one which, for
   many, very many reasons there is no occasion for me now to explain,
   maybe thought to involve disgrace or discredit. But, so far from
   viewing it in that light, I do not shrink from it, but accept it
   readily, feeling proud and glad that it affords me an opportunity of
   proving the sincerity of those soul-elevating principles of freedom
   which a good old patriotic father instilled into my mind from my
   earliest years, and which I still entertain with a strong love, whose
   fervour and intensity are second only to the sacred homage which we
   owe to God. If, having lost that freedom, I am to be deprived of all
   those blessings--those glad and joyous years I should have spent
   amongst loving friends--I shall not complain, I shall not murmur, but
   with calm resignation and cheerful expectation, I shall joyfully
   submit to God's blessed will, feeling confident that He will open the
   strongly locked and barred doors of British prisons. Till that glad
   time arrives, it is consolation and reward enough for me to know that
   I have the fervent prayers, the sympathy and loving blessings of
   Ireland's truly noble and generous people, and far easier, more
   soothing and more comforting to me will it be to go back to my
   cheerless cell, than it would be to live in slavish ease and
   luxury--a witness to the cruel sufferings and terrible miseries of
   this down-trodden people. Condemn me, then, my lord--condemn me to a
   felon's doom. To-night I will sleep in a prison cell; to-morrow I
   will wear a convict's dress; but to me it will be a far nobler garb
   than the richest dress of slavery. Coward slaves they lie who think
   the countless sufferings and degradation of prison life disgraces a
   man. I feel otherwise. It is as impossible to subdue the soul
   animated with freedom as it will be for England to crush the resolute
   will of this nation, determined as it is to be free, or perish in the
   attempt. According to British law, those acts proved against
   me--fairly proved against me I acknowledge--maybe crimes, but
   morally, in the eyes of freemen and the sight of God, they are more
   ennobling than disgraceful. Shame is only a connexion with guilt. It
   is surely not a crime to obey God's law, or to assist our fellow-men
   to acquire those God-given rights which no men--no nation--can justly
   deprive them of. If love of freedom and a desire to extend its
   unspeakable blessings to all God's creatures, irrespective of race,
   creed, or colour, be a crime--if devotion to Ireland, and love of its
   faithful, its honest, its kindly people be a crime, then I say I
   proudly and gladly acknowledge my guilt. If it is a disgrace, all I
   can say is I glory in such shame and dishonour; and, with all respect
   for the court, I hold in thorough and utmost contempt the worst
   punishment that can be inflicted upon me, so far as it is intended to
   deprive me of this feeling, and degrade me in the eyes of my
   fellow-men. Oh, no, it is impossible, my lord; the freeman's soul can
   never be dismayed. England will most miserably fail if she expects by
   force and oppression to crush out--to stamp out, as the Times
   exclaimed--this glorious longing for national life and independence
   which now fills the breasts of millions of Irishmen, and which only
   requires a little patience and the opportunity to effect its purpose.
   Much has been said on these trials, on the objects and intentions of
   Fenianism. I feel confidently, my lord, as to my own motives. I shall
   not be guilty of the egotism to say whether they are pure or
   otherwise. I shall leave that to others to judge. I am not qualified
   to judge that myself; but I know in my soul that the motives which
   prompted me were pure, patriotic, and unselfish. I know the motives
   that actuate the most active members of the Fenian organization; and
   I know that very few persons, except such contemptible wretches as
   Corridon, have profited by their connexion with Fenianism. My best
   friends lost all they ever possessed by it. Talbot and Corridon, I
   believe, have sworn on previous trials that it was the intention of
   the Fenians to have divided the lands of Ireland amongst themselves
   in the event of success. Though an humble member of the organization,
   I have the honour and satisfaction of being acquainted with the great
   majority of the leaders of Fenianism on both sides of the Atlantic,
   and I never knew one of them to have exhibited a desire other than to
   have the proud satisfaction of freeing Ireland, which was the only
   reward they ever yearned for--the only object that ever animated
   them. As to myself, I can truly say that I entered into this movement
   without any idea of personal aggrandisement. When, in 1865, I bade my
   loving friends and parents good-bye in America, and came to Ireland,
   I was fully satisfied with the thought that I was coming to assist in
   the liberation of an enslaved nation; and I knew that the greatest
   sacrifices must be endured on our parts before the country could be
   raised to that proud position which is so beautifully described by
   the national poet as--

           "'Great, glorious, and free,
   First flower of the earth, first gem of the sea.'

   "Well, it was with that only wish, and that only desire I came to
   Ireland, feeling that to realize it were to an honest man a greater
   reward than all the honours and riches and power this world could
   bestow. I cannot boast of learning, my lord; I have not had much
   opportunity of cultivating those talents with which Providence may
   have blessed me. Still I have read sufficient of the world's history
   to know that no people ever acquired their liberty without enormous
   sacrifices--without losing, always, I may say, some of the purest,
   bravest, and best of their children. Liberty, if worth possessing, is
   surely worth struggling and fighting for, and in this struggle--of
   which, although the crown-lawyers and the government of England think
   they have seen the end, but of which I tell them they have not yet
   seen the commencement--I feel that enormous sacrifices must be made.
   Therefore, my lord, looking straight before me now, I say I was
   determined and was quite ready to sacrifice my life if necessary to
   acquire that liberty; and I am not now going to be so mean-spirited,
   so cowardly, or so contemptible as to shrink from my portion of the
   general suffering. I am ready, then, for the sentence of the court,
   satisfied that I have acted right, confident that I have committed no
   wrong, outrage, or crime whatever, and that I have cast no disgrace
   upon my parents, my friends, upon my devoted wife, or upon myself. I
   am, with God's assistance, ready to meet my fate. I rest in the calm
   resignation of a man whose only ambition through life has been to
   benefit and free, not to injure, his fellow-men; and whose only
   desire this moment is to obtain their prayers and blessings. With the
   approval of my own conscience, above all hoping for the forgiveness
   of God for anything I may have done to displease Him, and relying
   upon His self-sustaining grace to enable me to bear any punishment,
   no matter how severe, so long as it is for glorious old Ireland. I
   had intended, my lord, to refer to my notes which I took at the
   trial; but I feel that was so ably done by my counsel, it would be a
   mere waste of time for me to do so, but I just wish to make an
   explanation. Sir C. O'Loghlen made a statement--unintentionally I am
   sure it was on his part--which may or may not affect me. He said I
   sent a memorial to the Lord Lieutenant praying to be released from
   custody. I wish to say I sent no such thing. The facts of the matter
   are these:--I was liberated in this court because in reality the
   crown could not make out a case against me at the time; and as I
   could, at the same time, be kept in prison until the next assizes, I,
   on consultation with my friends and with my fellow-captive, Captain
   M'Afferty, consented, as soon as I should receive a remittance from
   my friends in America, to return there. On these conditions I was set
   at liberty, understanding, at the same time, that if found in the
   country by next assizes I would be brought up for trial. I did not
   want to give annoyance, and I said I would go to America. I honestly
   intended to do so then--not, however, as giving up my principles, but
   because I saw there was no hope of an immediate rising in Ireland.
   While agreeing to those conditions, I went to Dublin, and there met
   M'Afferty, and it was on that occasion I made the acquaintance of
   Corridon. I met him purely accidentally. He afterwards stated that he
   saw me in Liverpool, but he did not see me there. I went over with an
   object, and while there I was arrested by anticipation, before the
   Habeas Corpus Act was really suspended. I defy the government to
   prove I had any connexion with Fenianism from the time I was released
   from Cork jail until February, 1867. I was afterwards removed to
   Mountjoy prison, and, while there, Mr. West came to me and said he
   understood I was an American citizen, and asked why I did not make
   that known. I said I had a double reason--first, because I expected
   the crown would see they had broken their pledge with me in having
   been so soon arrested; and also that I expected my government would
   make a general demand for all its citizens. By Mr. West's desire I
   put that statement in writing; and I do not think that there is a
   word in it that can be construed into a memorial to the Lord
   Lieutenant. One of the directors of the prison came to me and asked
   me was I content to comply with the former conditions, and I said I
   was. I was liberated upon those conditions, and complied with them;
   but there was no condition whatever named that I was never to return
   to Ireland nor to fight for Irish independence. At that time I would
   sooner have remained in prison than enter into any such compact. Now,
   with reference to Corridon's information. He states he met me in
   Liverpool after the rising, and I stated to him that somebody 'sold
   the pass' upon us--to use the Irish phrase. Now, it is a strange
   thing, my lord, that he got some information that was true, and I
   really was in Liverpool, but not with the informer. The fact is, the
   month previous to that I knew, and so did M'Afferty, that Corridon
   had sold us. We left instructions at Liverpool to have him watched;
   but owing to circumstances, it is needless now to refer to, that was
   not attended to, and he came afterwards to Ireland and passed as a
   Fenian, and the parties here, not knowing he had betrayed them, still
   believed in him. But I knew very well that Corridon had betrayed that
   Chester affair, and so did Captain M'Afferty; and if I had met him at
   that time in Liverpool I don't think it would be him I would inform
   of our plans. I only want to show, my lord, how easily an informer
   can concoct a scene. I never in my life attended that meeting that
   Corridon swore to. All his depositions with respect to me is false. I
   did meet him twice in Dublin, but not on the occasions he states. I
   wish to show how an informer can concoct a story that it will be
   entirely out of the power of the prisoner to contradict. With
   reference to the witness Curtin, whom I asked to have produced--and
   the crown did produce all the witnesses I asked for--your lordship
   seemed to be under the impression that I did not produce him because
   he might not be able to say I was not in his house that night. Now,
   the fact is that, as my attorney learned the moment Mr. Curtin was
   brought to town, he knew nothing whatever about the circumstance, as
   he was not in his own tavern that night at all. That was why I did
   not produce the evidence. But I solemnly declare I never was in
   Curtin's public-house in my life till last summer, when I went in
   with a friend on two or three occasions, and then for the first time.
   That must have been in June or July, after the trials were over in
   Dublin. So that everything Corridon said in connection with my being
   there that night was absolutely false. I solemnly declare I was never
   there till some time last summer, when I went in under the
   circumstances I have stated. In conclusion, my lord, though it may
   not be exactly in accordance with the rules of the court, I wish to
   return your lordship my most sincere thanks for your fair and
   impartial conduct during this trial. If there was anything that was
   not impartial in it at all, I consider it was only in my favour, and
   not in favour of the crown. This I consider is the duty of a judge,
   and what every judge should do--because the prisoner is always on the
   weak side, and cannot say many things he would wish, while the crown,
   on the other hand, have all the power and influence that the law and
   a full exchequer can give them. I must also return my sincere and
   heartfelt thanks to my able and distinguished counsel, who spoke so
   eloquently in my favour. As for Mr. Collins, I feel I can never
   sufficiently thank him. He served me on my trial at a great sacrifice
   of time and money, with noble zeal and devotion, such as might be
   more readily expected from a friend than a solicitor. There are many
   more I would like to thank individually, but as this may not be the
   proper time and place to do so, I can only thank all my friends from
   the bottom of my heart. I may mention the name at least of Mr. Joyce,
   who, in the jail, showed a great deal of kind feeling and attention.
   And now, my lord, as I have already stated, I am ready for my
   sentence I feel rather out of place in this dock [the prisoner here
   smiled gently]. It is a place a man is very seldom placed in, and
   even if he is a good speaker he might be put out by the circumstance
   of having to utter his remarks from this place. But speaking at all
   is not my forte; and there are such emotions filling my breast at
   this moment that I may be pardoned for not saying all I would wish.
   My heart is filled with thoughts of kind friends--near at hand and
   far away--of father and mother, brothers and sisters, and my dear
   wife. Thoughts of these fill my breast at this moment, and check my
   utterance. But I will say to them that I am firmly convinced I will
   yet live to see, and that God will be graciously pleased in His own
   good time to order, the prosperity and freedom of this glorious
   country. I would only repeat the powerful, touching, and simple words
   of Michael Larkin, the martyr of Manchester, who, in parting from his
   friends, said, 'God be with you, Irishmen and Irishwomen,' and the
   burning words of my old friend Edward O'Mara Condon, which are now
   known throughout Ireland and the world, 'God save Ireland!' And I,
   too, would say, 'God be with you, Irishmen and women; God save you;
   God bless Ireland; and God grant me strength to bear my task for
   Ireland as becomes a man. Farewell!' [A sound of some females sobbing
   was here heard in the gallery. Several ladies in court, too, visibly
   yielded to emotion at this point. Perceiving this the prisoner
   continued:--] My lord, if I display any emotion at this moment, I
   trust it will not be construed into anything resembling a feeling of
   despair, for no such feeling animates me. I feel, as I have already
   said, confidence in God. I feel that I will not be long in
   imprisonment; therefore I am just as ready to meet my fate now as I
   was six weeks ago, or as I was six months ago. I feel confident that
   there is a glorious future in store for Ireland, and that, with a
   little patience, a little organization, and a full trust in God on
   the part of the Irish people, they will be enabled to obtain it at no
   distant date."

During the concluding passages of this address many persons sobbed and wept in various parts
of the court. At its close the learned judge in language that was really gentle, considerate,
and even complimentary towards the prisoner, and in a voice shaken by sincere emotion, declared
the sentence which he felt it to be his duty to impose. It was penal servitude for a term of
twelve years.