English Translations of Erasmus' Encomium Moriæ (No. 24. p. 385.).--Sir Thomas Challoner's
translation of Erasmus' Praise of Folly was first printed, I believe, in 1540. Subsequent impressions
are dated 1549, 1569, 1577. In 1566, William Pickering had a license "for pryntinge of a mery
and pleasaunt history, donne in tymes paste by Erasmus Roterdamus," which possibly might be
an impression of the Praise of Folly. (See Collier's Extracts from the Registers of the Stationers'
Company, vol. i. p. 125.). This popular work was again translated in the latter part of the
following century, by White Kennet. It was printed at Oxford in 1683, under the title of Wit
against Wisdom, or a Panegyric upon Folly. This is in all probability the intermediate translation
inquired after by your correspondent.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

In answer to "JARLZBERG," I beg to inform him of the following translation of Erasmus' Praise
of Folly:--

    "Moriæ Encomium, or the Praise of Folly, made English from the
    Latin of Erasmus by W. Kennet, of S. Edm. Hall, Oxon, now Lord
    Bishop of Peterborough. Adorn'd with 46 copper plates, and the
    effigies of Erasmus and Sir Thos. More, all neatly engraved from
    the designs of the celebrated Hans Holbeine. 4th edition. 1724."

Kennett, however, in his preface, dated 1683, alludes to two other translations, and to Sir
Thomas Challoner's as the first. He does not mention the name of the second translator, but
alludes to him as "the modern translator," and as having lost a good deal of the wit of the
book by having "tied himself so strictly to a literal observance of the Latin." This is his
excuse for offering to the public a third translation, in which he professes to have allowed
himself such "elbow-room of expression as the humoursomeness of the subject and the idiom of
the language did invite."

HERMES.

The intermediate translation of the Moriæ Encomium of Erasmus, to which your correspondent
refers, is that by John Wilson, 8vo. London 1661, of which there is a copy in the Bodleian.

M.

Oxford.

Court of Wards.--I cannot tell "J.B." (No. 11. p. 173.) anything about Mr. D'Israeli's researches
in the Court of Wards; but "J.B." may be glad to know that there is among the MSS. in the British
Museum a treatise on the Court of Wards. I remember seeing it, but have not read it. I dare
say it might be usefully published, for we know little in detail about the Court of Wards.

C.H.

Scala Coeli (No. 23. p. 366.).--In Foxe's Acts and Mon., vol. v. p. 364., Lond. 1838, your
Querist may see a copy of a grant from Pope Clement VII. in 1526, to the brethren of a Boston
guild, assuring them that any member thereof who should enter the Lady Chapel in St. Botolph's
Church, Boston, once a quarter, and say there "a Paternoster, Ave Maria, and Creed, shall have
the full remission due to them that visit the Chapel of Scala Scoeli."

H.W.

Twm Shawn Cattie (No. 24, p. 383.).--The following extract from Cliffe's Book of South Wales,
furnishes a reply to this Query.

In describing the beautiful mountain scenery between Llandovery and Tregaron, he says:--

    "High in the rock above the fall yawns a hole, hardly a cavern,
    where once lurked a famous freebooter of Wales, Twm Sion Catti:
    the entrance to this cave is through a narrow aperture, formed
    of two immense slate rocks, which face each other, and the space
    between them is narrower at the bottom than the top, so {456}
    that the passage can only be entered sideways, with the figure
    inclined according to the slanting of the rock.

    "The history of Twm Sion Catti (pronounced Toom Shone Catti),
    alias Thomas Jones, Esq., is very romantic. He was a natural son
    of John ap David Moethe, by Catharine, natural daughter of
    Meredydd ap Ivan ap Robert, grandfather of Sir John Wynne, of
    Gwydir (see The Heraldic Visitations of Wales, published by
    the Welsh MSS. Society), and is said to have died in 1630, at
    the age of 61. In early life, 'he was a notorious freebooter and
    highwayman,' and levied black mail on the country within reach
    of his mountain abode, with the aid of a small band of
    followers. He soon reformed, married a rich heiress, was then
    created a justice of peace for Brecon, and ultimately became
    sheriff of that county and Carmarthenshire. He was, observes Sir
    S.R. Meyrick, esteemed as an antiquarian and poet, but is more
    known for the tricks attributed to him as a robber."

A.B.

Twm Sion Catti.--The noted robber, Twm Sion or Shôn Catti, referred to at No. 24. p. 383.,
was a Welshman who flourished between the years 1590 and 1630. He was the natural son of Sir
John Wynne, and obtained his surname of Catti from the appellation of his mother Catherine.
In early life he was a brigand of the most audacious character, who plundered and terrified
the rich in such a manner that his name was a sufficient warrant for the raising of any sum
which he might desire; while his unbounded generosity to the poor or unprotected, joined to
an innate love of fun and frolic--for he was a very Eulenspiegel--made him the darling of the
people. His chosen dwelling-place was in the almost inaccessible cave situated near Llandovery,
at the junction of the Tywi and the Dethia (the Toothy of Drayton), which still bears his name.
As time passed on, he wooed and won the heiress of Ystrad-ffin, in the vale of Tywi; and on
becoming possessed of her property, abandoned his wild life, and with it the name of Catti;
and quietly subsiding into Thomas Jones, Esq., became a poet and antiquary of high reputation.
In addition to which, and as if to mark their sense of the value of a man so powerful for good
or for evil, the government appointed him high sheriff for the county of Carmarthen. He died
universally respected, and left a name which yet kindles many a Welsh heart, or amuses many
a cottage circle in the long nights of winter.

His life has been published in an 8vo. volume, which was probably the work to which the "Note"
of "MELANION" referred.

SELEUCUS.

Cheshire Round (No. 24. p. 383.).--A dance so called, peculiar to the county from whence it
takes its name. The musical notes of the Cheshire Round may be seen in The Dancing Master,
1721, vol. i., and in Edward Jones' Cheshire Melodies. It was sometimes danced "longways for
as many us will" (as described in The Dancing Master), but more frequently by one person. A
handbill of the time of William the Third states, "In Bartholomew Fair, at the Coach-House
on the Pav'd stones at Hosier-Lane-End, you shall see a Black that dances the Cheshire Rounds
to the admiration of all spectators." Michael Root and John Sleepe, two clever caterers of
"Bartlemy," also advertise "a little boy that dances the Cheshire Round to perfection." There
is a portrait of Dogget the celebrated comedian (said to be the only one extant, but query
if it is not Penkethman?), representing him dancing the Cheshire Round, with the motto "Ne
sutor ultra crepidam."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Horns to a River.--Why the poets give horns to rivers, must be sought for in the poet's book,
nature. I like the interpretation given by a glance up some sinuous and shelving valley, where
the mighty stream, more than half lost to the eye, is only seen in one or two of its bolder
reaches, as it tosses itself here to the right, and there to the left, to find a way for its
mountain waters.

The third question about horns I am not able to answer. It would be interesting to know where
your correspondent has found it in late Greek.

J.E.

Oxford, April 16. 1850.

Horns.--For answer to the third Query of "L.C."

As You Like It, Act iv. sc. 2. Pickering, 1849.

ROBERT SNOW.

Coal Brandy (No. 22. p. 352.).--This is only a contraction of "coaled brandy," that is, "burnt
brandy," and has no reference to the purity of the spirit. It was the "universal pectoral"
of the last century; and more than once I have seen it prepared by "good housewives" and "croaking
husbands" in the present, pretty much as directed in the following prescription. It is only
necessary to remark, that the orthodox method of "coaling," or setting the brandy on fire,
was effected by dropping "a live coal" ("gleed") or red-hot cinder into the brandy. This is
copied from a leaf of paper, on the other side of which are written, in the hand of John Nourse,
the great publisher of scientific books in his day, some errata in the first 8vo. edit. of
Simsons's Euclid, and hence may be referred to the year 1762. It was written evidently by some
{457} "dropper-in," who found "honest John" suffering from a severe cold, and upon the first
piece of paper that came to hand. The writer's caligraphy bespeaks age, and the punctuation
and erasures show him to have been a literary man, and a careful though stilted writer. It
is not, however, a hand of which I find any other exemplars amongst Nourse's correspondence.

    "Take two glasses of the best brandy, put them into a cup which
    may stand over the fire; have two long wires, and put an ounce
    of sugar-candy upon the wires, and set the brandy on fire. Let
    it burn till it is put out by itself, and drink it before you go
    to bed.

    "To make it more pectoral, take some rosemary and put it in the
    brandy, infused for a whole day, before you burn it."

This is the fundamental element of all the quack medicines for "coughs, colds, catarrhs, and
consumption," from Ford's "Balsam of Horehound" to Dr. Solomon's "Balm of Gilead."

T.S.D.

Shooter's Hill, April 4.

Howkey or Horkey (No. 17. p. 263.).--Does the following passage from Sir Thomas Overbury's
Witty Descriptions of the Properties of sundry Persons, first published, I believe, in 1614,
afford any clue to the etymology of this word?

As I have not the book by me, and am only quoting from an extract, I am unable to give a more
precise reference.

E.R.J.H.

Chancery Lane.

It may be possible further the purpose of the noble Querist as to the word Howkey or Horkey,
if I state, that when in my boyhood I was accustomed to hear this word, it was pronounced as
if spelt Hockey. As Howkey I should not have recognised it, nor hardly as Horkey.

AN EAST ANGLIAN.

Hockey, a game played by boys with a stick bent at the end, is very likely derived from hook,
an Anglo-Saxon word too. But we cannot suppose that anything else was derived from that, and
especially when we come to words apparently more genuine than that. It seems natural to connect
them with a hock-tide, Hoch-zeit (German), and Heoh-tid (A.-S.), a name given to more than
one season when it was usual to have games and festivities. Now surely this is nothing else
than high tide, a time of some high feast; as we vulgarly say, "high days and holidays." So
in the Scripture, "that Sabbath day was a high day." So high Mass. We Protestants have no conception
of the close connection between the superior sanctity and the superior jollity of a particular
season. Among the heathen Romans, festicus is derived from festus.[3] We say high romps, high
jinks.

See Wachter, who applies Hoch-zeit to Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide, and says it may be
derived either from high, or from Hogen, "gaudere," which also see. He says that the lower
Saxons "hodie utuntur 'Höge'" to mean "gaudium privatum et publicum convivale et nuptiale."
See also Hohen. See Lye, who has also heah, freols summa festivitas, summum festum.

Ihre (Lex. Suio Goth.) says Hugna is "to make glad." But in Hog-tid he observes, that gladness
is only the secondary meaning of Hogen,--"Hokanat vocabatur a Borealibus festum quod media
hieme celebrabatur;" and he shows that hawks were formerly sacrificed at it. Vide under "Hock-cart,"
in Brand's Antiquities by Ellis, where the following quotation from Poor Robin's Almanack for
1676 occurs:--

  "Hoacky is brought home with hallowing,
  Boys with plum-cake the cart following."

J.M.B.

Luther's Portrait at Warwick Castle (No. 25. p. 400.).--The Portrait by Holbein, in Warwick
Castle, certainly erroneously stated to be that of Luther, was, I believe, engraved as such
in Knight's Portrait Gallery, published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge.
I cannot find in any account of Helbein's works a mention of a portrait of Luther by him.

Yet, in the English language there is, I believe, no work of this description; and I therefore
beg leave to suggest, that your learned correspondents may contribute to a very useful compilation
by furnishing illustrations, or references to illustrations, critical and poetical, collected
from the most valuable authors, ancient and modern; and that this "sacred eloquence," {458}

  "Where'er 'tis found
  On Christian or on heathen ground,"

if transplanted into learned pages, would to many readers, afford much pleasure. Meanwhile,
I would refer Querist to the useful work of Camerarius on Symbols and Emblems.

  "Do thou, bright Phoebus, guide me luckily
  To the first plant by some kind augury."

The proverbial expression, "Under the rose," appears opportunely in p. 214, beautifully illustrated[4],
but still deserving further consideration. Schedius (De Diis Gemanis) and others have, with
much learning, shown Venus Urania to be the same as Isis Myrionyma. With erudition not inferior,
but in support of a peculiar theory, Gorop. Bacanus maintains Harpocrates and Cupido, son of
Venus Uranis, to be one and the same hieroglyphical character. I shall now endeavour to explain
the symbolism and dedication of the Rose. This "flower of flowers" adumbrates the highest faculty
of human nature--Reason, and Silence, or the rest of the reasoning powers, which is indicated
by the Greek term [Greek: epistaemae], science. (See Harris's Philosoph. Arrang. p. 444., and
Hermes, p. 369.). To whom, then, could the hieroglyphical rose have been more appropriately
dedicated than Harpocrates, who is described with his finger pointing to his mouth--tacito
plenus amore--a proper emblem of that silence with which we ought to behave in religious matters.

T.J.

    [Footnote 4: Has "ARCHILAEUS" looked for these verses into the
    Rhodologia of Rosenbergius? I have in vain searched for them under
    "Rosæ," in the Amphitheatrum sapientiæ of Dornavius.]

"Where England's Monarch" (No. 26. p. 415.).--The two lines inquired for are in Bramston's
Man of Taste, a poem printed about the middle of the last century. I need hardly add, that
the poet was misinformed, it being well known that Charles I., when brought to trial, refused
to plead or to take off his hat.

There is an account of Duke of Marlborough's adventure with Barnard in the Gentleman's Magazine,
May 1758: but it may be the same as that in the Annual Register.

BRAYBROOKE

April 27.

Journeyman (No. 19. p. 309.).--"GOMER" may like to know that the old labourers in North Essex
still speak of a day's ploughing as a "journey at plough."

BRAYBROOKE.

Sydenham or Tidenham.--I have no doubt as to Sydenham, included in the inquiry respecting Cromwell's
Estates (No. 24. p. 389.), being Tidenham; for this manor, the property of the Marquis of Worcester,
was possessed by Cromwell; and, among my title deeds connected with this parish, I have Court
Rolls in Cromwell's name both for Tidenham itself and for Beachley, a mesne manor within it.

These manors, which were inherited from the Herberts by the Somersets, were taken out of the
former Marches by the statute 27 Hen. VIII. cap. 26. § 13., and annexed, together with Woolaston,
similarly circumstanced, to the country of Gloucester and to the hundred of Westbury; of which
hundred, in a legal sense, they still continue a part.

GEO. ORMEROD.

Sedbury Park, Chepstow, April 18. 1850.

J.B.'s Treatise on Nature and Art (No. 25. p. 401.).--The book to which your correspondent
"M." refers, is, I believe, "The Mysteries of Nature and Art, in Foure severall Parts: The
First of Water Works,--the Second of Fire Works, &c., &c. By John Bate."

I have the second edition, 1635; to which is prefixed a rude engraving of the author:--"Vera
effigies Johannis Bate, memoria manet, modo permaneant studium et industria."

HERMES.

"A Frog he would a-wooing go."--In answer to the inquiry of "B.G.J." (in No. 25, p. 401.),
as to the origin of "'Heigh ho!' says Rowley," I do not think it is older that thirty of thirty-five
years, when Liston sang an altered version of the very old song,--

  "A frog, he would a-wooing ride,
  With sword and buckler by his side,"

and instead of the usual chorus[5], inserted

  "Heigho, says Rowley,"

as burthen. Liston's song was published by Goulding and Co., Soho Square, entitled "The Love-sick
Frog," with an original air by C.E.H., Esq. (qy. Charles Edward Horn?), and an accompaniment
by Thomas Cook. 1850.

    [Footnote 5: In my interleaved copy of Halliwell's Nursery Rhymes, I
    have the original song of the "Frog and Mouse" with three different
    melodies, and nonsense burthens, as sung by my excellent nurse, Betty
    Richens, whose name I hope to see immortalised in your pages.]

"My Love and I for kisses played, &c." (No. 19. p. 302.).--The little jeu d'esprit which "Dr.
RIMBAULT" {459} has given from Paget's Common Place Book:--

  "My love and I for kisses play'd,"

occurs in the MS. volume from which James Boswell extracted "Shakspeare's Verses on the King,"
but with a much better reading of the last couplet:--

  "Nay then, quoth shee, is this your wrangling vaine?
  Give mee my stakes, take your own stakes againe."

They are entitled, "Upon a Lover and his Mistris playing for Kisses," and are there without
any name or signature. They remind us of Lilly's very elegant "Cupid and Campaspe."

The ballad, or rather ode, as Drayton himself entitles it:--

  "Fair stood the wind for France,"

is to be found in the very rare volume with the following title, Poemes Lyrick and Pastorall,
Odes, Eglogs, The Man in the Moon, by Michael Drayton, Esquire. At London, printed by R.B.
for N.L. and J. Flaskett. 12mo. (No date, but circa 1600.)

I think the odes are given in the other volumes of the early editions of Drayton's Miscellaneous
Poems; but I speak without book, my collection being in the country.

The selection from Herrick, noticed by Mr. Milner Barry, was made by Dr. Nott of Bristol, whose
initials, J.N., are on the title page. "The head and front of my offending" is the Preface
of Mr. Pickering's neat edition of Herrick in 1846.

S.W.S.

March 12. 1850.

    ["O.E." informs us that these pretty lines form No. CCXXXIX. of
    A Collection of Epigrams. London. Printed for J. Walthoe,
    1727, and of which a second volume was published in 1737; and
    "J.B.M." adds, that they are also to be found in the
    Encyclopædia of Wit, published about half a century since.]

Teneber Wednesday.--In Hall's Chronicle, under the date of 23rd Hen. VIII., is this passage:

    "When Ester began to draw nere, the Parliament for that tyme
    ended, and was proroged till the last day of Marche, in the next
    yere. In the Parliament aforesayde was an Acte made that
    whosoeuer dyd poyson any persone, shoulde be boyled in hote
    water to the death; which Acte was made bicause one Richard
    Roose, int the Parliament tyme, had poysoned dyuers persons at
    the Bishop of Rochester's place, which Richard, according to the
    same Acte, was boyled in Smythfelde the Teneber-Wednysday
    following, to the terrible example of all other."

I conjecture that Teneber Wednesday is the Wednesday next before Easter, of "Feria quarta majoris
Hebdomadao," and that the name is derived form the Gospel for that day according to the ritual
of the Church of Rome.

    "Erat autem fere hora sexta, et tenèbroe factoe sunt in
    universam terram usque in horam nonam. Et obscuratus est sol: et
    velum templi seissum est medium."--Luke, xxiii. 44, 45.

Should this conjecture be ill founded, I shall be glad to see it corrected; at any rate, I
shall be obliged if any of your correspondents can supply other instances of the use of the
term, or state what are or were the ceremonies peculiar to the day.

C.H. COOPER

Cambridge, April 4. 1850.

P.S. Since the above was written, I have noticed that "Tenable Wednesday" occurs three times
in the Ordinance for "weshing of all mannar of Lynnon belonging to my Lordes Chapell" in the
Northumberland Household Book (pp. 243, 244.). In each instance it is placed between Lady Day
and Easter Even.

    [If our correspondent refers to Mr. Hampson's most useful work,
    Medii ævi Kalendarium, vol. i. p. 370., to the words
    Tenables, Tenabulles, Tenebræ, he will find them explained
    "The three nights before Easter;" and the following among other
    illustrations:--

    "Worshipfull frendis, ye shall cum to holi chirch on Wednysday,
    Thursday, and Friday at even for to here dyvyne service, as
    commendable custom of holi chirch has ordeyned. And holi chirch
    useth the iij dayes, Wednysday, Thursday, and Friday, the
    service to be saide in the eventyde in derkenes. And hit is
    called with divers men Tenables, but holi chirch Tenebras,
    as Raccionale Divinorum seth, that is to say, thieness or
    derkenes, to commemorate the betrayal of our Lord by
    night."--Harl. MS. 2247. fo. 83.]

The Buckingham Motto.--Permit me to suggest that your correspondents "S." and "P." (No. 18.
pp. 283, 284.) are labouring under a mistaken notion in supposing that the line

  Sovente me sorene,

belongs to the French idiom, and answers to our phrase "Forget me not." Such a sentiment would
be sufficiently appropriate as the parting prayer or injunction of a lover, but does not possess
the essential characteristic of a motto, which one selects for the purpose of declaring his
own sentiments of conduct towards others, not to deprecate or direct those of others towards
himself.

The language employed is, in part, pure Italian, not antiquated, but exactly such as is spoken
by persons of education at the present day; and if "S." would again examine the original MS.,
I make no doubt that he would find the line written Sovente mi sooviene (sovene), i.e. with
the personal pronoun in the dative instead of the accusative case. The expression mi souviene
is equivalent to mi ricordo, but is a more elegant form that the latter; and the meaning of
the motto will be "I seldom forget,"--a pithy and suggestive sentence, implying as much the
memory of a wrong to be avenged as of a favour to be required.

A. RICH, JUN. {460}

