Front-de-Boeuf heard the words imperfectly, but the action was suspicious--"Archers," he called
to the warders on the outward battlements, "send me an arrow through yon monk's frock!--yet
stay," he said, as his retainers were bending their bows, "it avails not--we must thus far
trust him since we have no better shift. I think he dares not betray me--at the worst I can
but treat with these Saxon dogs whom I have safe in kennel.--Ho! Giles jailor, let them bring
Cedric of Rotherwood before me, and the other churl, his companion--him I mean of Coningsburgh--Athelstane
there, or what call they him? Their very names are an encumbrance to a Norman knight's mouth,
and have, as it were, a flavour of bacon--Give me a stoup of wine, as jolly Prince John said,
that I may wash away the relish--place it in the armoury, and thither lead the prisoners."

His commands were obeyed; and, upon entering that Gothic apartment, hung with many spoils won
by his own valour and that of his father, he found a flagon of wine on the massive oaken table,
and the two Saxon captives under the guard of four of his dependants. Front-de-Boeuf took a
long drought of wine, and then addressed his prisoners;--for the manner in which Wamba drew
the cap over his face, the change of dress, the gloomy and broken light, and the Baron's imperfect
acquaintance with the features of Cedric, (who avoided his Norman neighbours, and seldom stirred
beyond his own domains,) prevented him from discovering that the most important of his captives
had made his escape.

"Gallants of England," said Front-de-Boeuf, "how relish ye your entertainment at Torquilstone?--Are
ye yet aware what your 'surquedy' and 'outrecuidance' [31] merit, for scoffing at the entertainment
of a prince of the House of Anjou?--Have ye forgotten how ye requited the unmerited hospitality
of the royal John? By God and St Dennis, an ye pay not the richer ransom, I will hang ye up
by the feet from the iron bars of these windows, till the kites and hooded crows have made
skeletons of you!--Speak out, ye Saxon dogs--what bid ye for your worthless lives?--How say
you, you of Rotherwood?"

"Not a doit I," answered poor Wamba--"and for hanging up by the feet, my brain has been topsy-turvy,
they say, ever since the biggin was bound first round my head; so turning me upside down may
peradventure restore it again."

"Saint Genevieve!" said Front-de-Boeuf, "what have we got here?"

And with the back of his hand he struck Cedric's cap from the head of the Jester, and throwing
open his collar, discovered the fatal badge of servitude, the silver collar round his neck.

"Giles--Clement--dogs and varlets!" exclaimed the furious Norman, "what have you brought me here?"

"I think I can tell you," said De Bracy, who just entered the apartment. "This is Cedric's
clown, who fought so manful a skirmish with Isaac of York about a question of precedence."

"I shall settle it for them both," replied Front-de-Boeuf; "they shall hang on the same gallows,
unless his master and this boar of Coningsburgh will pay well for their lives. Their wealth
is the least they can surrender; they must also carry off with them the swarms that are besetting
the castle, subscribe a surrender of their pretended immunities, and live under us as serfs
and vassals; too happy if, in the new world that is about to begin, we leave them the breath
of their nostrils.--Go," said he to two of his attendants, "fetch me the right Cedric hither,
and I pardon your error for once; the rather that you but mistook a fool for a Saxon franklin."

"Ay, but," said Wamba, "your chivalrous excellency will find there are more fools than franklins
among us."

"What means the knave?" said Front-de-Boeuf, looking towards his followers, who, lingering
and loath, faltered forth their belief, that if this were not Cedric who was there in presence,
they knew not what was become of him.

"Saints of Heaven!" exclaimed De Bracy, "he must have escaped in the monk's garments!"

"Fiends of hell!" echoed Front-de-Boeuf, "it was then the boar of Rotherwood whom I ushered
to the postern, and dismissed with my own hands!--And thou," he said to Wamba, "whose folly
could overreach the wisdom of idiots yet more gross than thyself--I will give thee holy orders--I
will shave thy crown for thee!--Here, let them tear the scalp from his head, and then pitch
him headlong from the battlements--Thy trade is to jest, canst thou jest now?"

"You deal with me better than your word, noble knight," whimpered forth poor Wamba, whose habits
of buffoonery were not to be overcome even by the immediate prospect of death; "if you give
me the red cap you propose, out of a simple monk you will make a cardinal."

"The poor wretch," said De Bracy, "is resolved to die in his vocation.--Front-de-Boeuf, you
shall not slay him. Give him to me to make sport for my Free Companions.--How sayst thou, knave?
Wilt thou take heart of grace, and go to the wars with me?"

"Ay, with my master's leave," said Wamba; "for, look you, I must not slip collar" (and he touched
that which he wore) "without his permission."

"Oh, a Norman saw will soon cut a Saxon collar." said De Bracy.

"Ay, noble sir," said Wamba, "and thence goes the proverb--

     'Norman saw on English oak,
     On English neck a Norman yoke;
     Norman spoon in English dish,
     And England ruled as Normans wish;
     Blithe world to England never will be more,
     Till England's rid of all the four.'"

"Thou dost well, De Bracy," said Front-de-Boeuf, "to stand there listening to a fool's jargon,
when destruction is gaping for us! Seest thou not we are overreached, and that our proposed
mode of communicating with our friends without has been disconcerted by this same motley gentleman
thou art so fond to brother? What views have we to expect but instant storm?"

"To the battlements then," said De Bracy; "when didst thou ever see me the graver for the thoughts
of battle? Call the Templar yonder, and let him fight but half so well for his life as he has
done for his Order--Make thou to the walls thyself with thy huge body--Let me do my poor endeavour
in my own way, and I tell thee the Saxon outlaws may as well attempt to scale the clouds, as
the castle of Torquilstone; or, if you will treat with the banditti, why not employ the mediation
of this worthy franklin, who seems in such deep contemplation of the wine-flagon?--Here, Saxon,"
he continued, addressing Athelstane, and handing the cup to him, "rinse thy throat with that
noble liquor, and rouse up thy soul to say what thou wilt do for thy liberty."

"What a man of mould may," answered Athelstane, "providing it be what a man of manhood ought.--Dismiss
me free, with my companions, and I will pay a ransom of a thousand marks."

"And wilt moreover assure us the retreat of that scum of mankind who are swarming around the
castle, contrary to God's peace and the king's?" said Front-de-Boeuf.

"In so far as I can," answered Athelstane, "I will withdraw them; and I fear not but that my
father Cedric will do his best to assist me."

"We are agreed then," said Front-de-Boeuf--"thou and they are to be set at freedom, and peace
is to be on both sides, for payment of a thousand marks. It is a trifling ransom, Saxon, and
thou wilt owe gratitude to the moderation which accepts of it in exchange of your persons.
But mark, this extends not to the Jew Isaac."

"Nor to the Jew Isaac's daughter," said the Templar, who had now joined them.

"Neither," said Front-de-Boeuf, "belong to this Saxon's company."

"I were unworthy to be called Christian, if they did," replied Athelstane: "deal with the unbelievers
as ye list."

"Neither does the ransom include the Lady Rowena," said De Bracy. "It shall never be said I
was scared out of a fair prize without striking a blow for it."

"Neither," said Front-de-Boeuf, "does our treaty refer to this wretched Jester, whom I retain,
that I may make him an example to every knave who turns jest into earnest."

"The Lady Rowena," answered Athelstane, with the most steady countenance, "is my affianced
bride. I will be drawn by wild horses before I consent to part with her. The slave Wamba has
this day saved the life of my father Cedric--I will lose mine ere a hair of his head be injured."

"Thy affianced bride?--The Lady Rowena the affianced bride of a vassal like thee?" said De
Bracy; "Saxon, thou dreamest that the days of thy seven kingdoms are returned again. I tell
thee, the Princes of the House of Anjou confer not their wards on men of such lineage as thine."

"My lineage, proud Norman," replied Athelstane, "is drawn from a source more pure and ancient
than that of a beggarly Frenchman, whose living is won by selling the blood of the thieves
whom he assembles under his paltry standard. Kings were my ancestors, strong in war and wise
in council, who every day feasted in their hall more hundreds than thou canst number individual
followers; whose names have been sung by minstrels, and their laws recorded by Wittenagemotes;
whose bones were interred amid the prayers of saints, and over whose tombs minsters have been
builded."

"Thou hast it, De Bracy," said Front-de-Boeuf, well pleased with the rebuff which his companion
had received; "the Saxon hath hit thee fairly."

"As fairly as a captive can strike," said De Bracy, with apparent carelessness; "for he whose
hands are tied should have his tongue at freedom.--But thy glibness of reply, comrade," rejoined
he, speaking to Athelstane, "will not win the freedom of the Lady Rowena."

To this Athelstane, who had already made a longer speech than was his custom to do on any topic,
however interesting, returned no answer. The conversation was interrupted by the arrival of
a menial, who announced that a monk demanded admittance at the postern gate.

"In the name of Saint Bennet, the prince of these bull-beggars," said Front-de-Boeuf, "have
we a real monk this time, or another impostor? Search him, slaves--for an ye suffer a second
impostor to be palmed upon you, I will have your eyes torn out, and hot coals put into the
sockets."

"Let me endure the extremity of your anger, my lord," said Giles, "if this be not a real shaveling.
Your squire Jocelyn knows him well, and will vouch him to be brother Ambrose, a monk in attendance
upon the Prior of Jorvaulx."

"Admit him," said Front-de-Boeuf; "most likely he brings us news from his jovial master. Surely
the devil keeps holiday, and the priests are relieved from duty, that they are strolling thus
wildly through the country. Remove these prisoners; and, Saxon, think on what thou hast heard."

"I claim," said Athelstane, "an honourable imprisonment, with due care of my board and of my
couch, as becomes my rank, and as is due to one who is in treaty for ransom. Moreover, I hold
him that deems himself the best of you, bound to answer to me with his body for this aggression
on my freedom. This defiance hath already been sent to thee by thy sewer; thou underliest it,
and art bound to answer me--There lies my glove."

"I answer not the challenge of my prisoner," said Front-de-Boeuf; "nor shalt thou, Maurice
de Bracy.--Giles," he continued, "hang the franklin's glove upon the tine of yonder branched
antlers: there shall it remain until he is a free man. Should he then presume to demand it,
or to affirm he was unlawfully made my prisoner, by the belt of Saint Christopher, he will
speak to one who hath never refused to meet a foe on foot or on horseback, alone or with his
vassals at his back!"

The Saxon prisoners were accordingly removed, just as they introduced the monk Ambrose, who
appeared to be in great perturbation.

"This is the real 'Deus vobiscum'," said Wamba, as he passed the reverend brother; "the others
were but counterfeits."

"Holy Mother," said the monk, as he addressed the assembled knights, "I am at last safe and
in Christian keeping!"

"Safe thou art," replied De Bracy; "and for Christianity, here is the stout Baron Reginald
Front-de-Boeuf, whose utter abomination is a Jew; and the good Knight Templar, Brian de Bois-Guilbert,
whose trade is to slay Saracens--If these are not good marks of Christianity, I know no other
which they bear about them."

"Ye are friends and allies of our reverend father in God, Aymer, Prior of Jorvaulx," said the
monk, without noticing the tone of De Bracy's reply; "ye owe him aid both by knightly faith
and holy charity; for what saith the blessed Saint Augustin, in his treatise 'De Civitate Dei'---"

"What saith the devil!" interrupted Front-de-Boeuf; "or rather what dost thou say, Sir Priest?
We have little time to hear texts from the holy fathers."

"'Sancta Maria!'" ejaculated Father Ambrose, "how prompt to ire are these unhallowed laymen!--But
be it known to you, brave knights, that certain murderous caitiffs, casting behind them fear
of God, and reverence of his church, and not regarding the bull of the holy see, 'Si quis,
suadende Diabolo'---"

"Brother priest," said the Templar, "all this we know or guess at--tell us plainly, is thy
master, the Prior, made prisoner, and to whom?"

"Surely," said Ambrose, "he is in the hands of the men of Belial, infesters of these woods,
and contemners of the holy text, 'Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets naught of evil.'"

"Here is a new argument for our swords, sirs," said Front-de-Boeuf, turning to his companions;
"and so, instead of reaching us any assistance, the Prior of Jorvaulx requests aid at our hands?
a man is well helped of these lazy churchmen when he hath most to do!--But speak out, priest,
and say at once, what doth thy master expect from us?"

"So please you," said Ambrose, "violent hands having been imposed on my reverend superior,
contrary to the holy ordinance which I did already quote, and the men of Belial having rifled
his mails and budgets, and stripped him of two hundred marks of pure refined gold, they do
yet demand of him a large sum beside, ere they will suffer him to depart from their uncircumcised
hands. Wherefore the reverend father in God prays you, as his dear friends, to rescue him,
either by paying down the ransom at which they hold him, or by force of arms, at your best
discretion."

"The foul fiend quell the Prior!" said Front-de-Boeuf; "his morning's drought has been a deep
one. When did thy master hear of a Norman baron unbuckling his purse to relieve a churchman,
whose bags are ten times as weighty as ours?--And how can we do aught by valour to free him,
that are cooped up here by ten times our number, and expect an assault every moment?"

"And that was what I was about to tell you," said the monk, "had your hastiness allowed me
time. But, God help me, I am old, and these foul onslaughts distract an aged man's brain. Nevertheless,
it is of verity that they assemble a camp, and raise a bank against the walls of this castle."

"To the battlements!" cried De Bracy, "and let us mark what these knaves do without;" and so
saying, he opened a latticed window which led to a sort of bartisan or projecting balcony,
and immediately called from thence to those in the apartment--"Saint Dennis, but the old monk
hath brought true tidings!--They bring forward mantelets and pavisses, [32] and the archers
muster on the skirts of the wood like a dark cloud before a hailstorm."

Reginald Front-de-Boeuf also looked out upon the field, and immediately snatched his bugle;
and, after winding a long and loud blast, commanded his men to their posts on the walls.

"De Bracy, look to the eastern side, where the walls are lowest--Noble Bois-Guilbert, thy trade
hath well taught thee how to attack and defend, look thou to the western side--I myself will
take post at the barbican. Yet, do not confine your exertions to any one spot, noble friends!--we
must this day be everywhere, and multiply ourselves, were it possible, so as to carry by our
presence succour and relief wherever the attack is hottest. Our numbers are few, but activity
and courage may supply that defect, since we have only to do with rascal clowns."

"But, noble knights," exclaimed Father Ambrose, amidst the bustle and confusion occasioned
by the preparations for defence, "will none of ye hear the message of the reverend father in
God Aymer, Prior of Jorvaulx?--I beseech thee to hear me, noble Sir Reginald!"

"Go patter thy petitions to heaven," said the fierce Norman, "for we on earth have no time
to listen to them.--Ho! there, Anselm I see that seething pitch and oil are ready to pour on
the heads of these audacious traitors--Look that the cross-bowmen lack not bolts. [33]--Fling
abroad my banner with the old bull's head--the knaves shall soon find with whom they have to
do this day!"

"But, noble sir," continued the monk, persevering in his endeavours to draw attention, "consider
my vow of obedience, and let me discharge myself of my Superior's errand."

"Away with this prating dotard," said Front-de Boeuf, "lock him up in the chapel, to tell his
beads till the broil be over. It will be a new thing to the saints in Torquilstone to hear
aves and paters; they have not been so honoured, I trow, since they were cut out of stone."

"Blaspheme not the holy saints, Sir Reginald," said De Bracy, "we shall have need of their
aid to-day before yon rascal rout disband."

"I expect little aid from their hand," said Front-de-Boeuf, "unless we were to hurl them from
the battlements on the heads of the villains. There is a huge lumbering Saint Christopher yonder,
sufficient to bear a whole company to the earth."

The Templar had in the meantime been looking out on the proceedings of the besiegers, with
rather more attention than the brutal Front-de-Boeuf or his giddy companion.

"By the faith of mine order," he said, "these men approach with more touch of discipline than
could have been judged, however they come by it. See ye how dexterously they avail themselves
of every cover which a tree or bush affords, and shun exposing themselves to the shot of our
cross-bows? I spy neither banner nor pennon among them, and yet will I gage my golden chain,
that they are led on by some noble knight or gentleman, skilful in the practice of wars."

"I espy him," said De Bracy; "I see the waving of a knight's crest, and the gleam of his armour.
See yon tall man in the black mail, who is busied marshalling the farther troop of the rascaille
yeomen--by Saint Dennis, I hold him to be the same whom we called 'Le Noir Faineant', who overthrew
thee, Front-de-Boeuf, in the lists at Ashby."

"So much the better," said Front-de-Boeuf, "that he comes here to give me my revenge. Some
hilding fellow he must be, who dared not stay to assert his claim to the tourney prize which
chance had assigned him. I should in vain have sought for him where knights and nobles seek
their foes, and right glad am I he hath here shown himself among yon villain yeomanry."

The demonstrations of the enemy's immediate approach cut off all farther discourse. Each knight
repaired to his post, and at the head of the few followers whom they were able to muster, and
who were in numbers inadequate to defend the whole extent of the walls, they awaited with calm
determination the threatened assault.

CHAPTER XXVIII

     This wandering race, sever'd from other men,
     Boast yet their intercourse with human arts;
     The seas, the woods, the deserts, which they haunt,
     Find them acquainted with their secret treasures:
     And unregarded herbs, and flowers, and blossoms,
     Display undreamt-of powers when gather'd by them.
     --The Jew

Our history must needs retrograde for the space of a few pages, to inform the reader of certain
passages material to his understanding the rest of this important narrative. His own intelligence
may indeed have easily anticipated that, when Ivanhoe sunk down, and seemed abandoned by all
the world, it was the importunity of Rebecca which prevailed on her father to have the gallant
young warrior transported from the lists to the house which for the time the Jews inhabited
in the suburbs of Ashby.

It would not have been difficult to have persuaded Isaac to this step in any other circumstances,
for his disposition was kind and grateful. But he had also the prejudices and scrupulous timidity
of his persecuted people, and those were to be conquered.

"Holy Abraham!" he exclaimed, "he is a good youth, and my heart bleeds to see the gore trickle
down his rich embroidered hacqueton, and his corslet of goodly price--but to carry him to our
house!--damsel, hast thou well considered?--he is a Christian, and by our law we may not deal
with the stranger and Gentile, save for the advantage of our commerce."

"Speak not so, my dear father," replied Rebecca; "we may not indeed mix with them in banquet
and in jollity; but in wounds and in misery, the Gentile becometh the Jew's brother."

"I would I knew what the Rabbi Jacob Ben Tudela would opine on it," replied Isaac;--"nevertheless,
the good youth must not bleed to death. Let Seth and Reuben bear him to Ashby."

"Nay, let them place him in my litter," said Rebecca; "I will mount one of the palfreys."

"That were to expose thee to the gaze of those dogs of Ishmael and of Edom," whispered Isaac,
with a suspicious glance towards the crowd of knights and squires. But Rebecca was already
busied in carrying her charitable purpose into effect, and listed not what he said, until Isaac,
seizing the sleeve of her mantle, again exclaimed, in a hurried voice--"Beard of Aaron!--what
if the youth perish!--if he die in our custody, shall we not be held guilty of his blood, and
be torn to pieces by the multitude?"

"He will not die, my father," said Rebecca, gently extricating herself from the grasp of Isaac
"he will not die unless we abandon him; and if so, we are indeed answerable for his blood to
God and to man."

"Nay," said Isaac, releasing his hold, "it grieveth me as much to see the drops of his blood,
as if they were so many golden byzants from mine own purse; and I well know, that the lessons
of Miriam, daughter of the Rabbi Manasses of Byzantium whose soul is in Paradise, have made
thee skilful in the art of healing, and that thou knowest the craft of herbs, and the force
of elixirs. Therefore, do as thy mind giveth thee--thou art a good damsel, a blessing, and
a crown, and a song of rejoicing unto me and unto my house, and unto the people of my fathers."

The apprehensions of Isaac, however, were not ill founded; and the generous and grateful benevolence
of his daughter exposed her, on her return to Ashby, to the unhallowed gaze of Brian de Bois-Guilbert.
The Templar twice passed and repassed them on the road, fixing his bold and ardent look on
the beautiful Jewess; and we have already seen the consequences of the admiration which her
charms excited when accident threw her into the power of that unprincipled voluptuary.

