The peculiar ray's, now known as the cathode rays, not only cast a shadow, but are deflected
by a magnet, so that the position of the phosphorescence on the sides of the tube may be altered
by the proximity of a powerful magnet. From this it would seem that the rays are composed of
particles charged with negative electricity, and Professor J. J. Thomson has modified the experiment
of Perrin to show that negative electricity is actually associated with the rays. There is
reason for believing, therefore, that the cathode rays are rapidly moving charges of negative
electricity. It is possible, also, to determine the velocity at which these particles are moving
by measuring the deflection produced by the magnetic field.

From the fact that opaque substances cast a shadow in these rays it was thought at first that
all solids were absolutely opaque to them. Hertz, however, discovered that a small amount of
phosphorescence occurred on the glass even when such opaque substances as gold-leaf or aluminium
foil were interposed between the cathode and the sides of the tube. Shortly afterwards Lenard
discovered that the cathode rays can be made to pass from the inside of a discharge tube to
the outside air. For convenience these rays outside the tube have since been known as "Lenard
rays."

In the closing days of December, 1895, Professor Wilhelm Konrad Roentgen, of Wurzburg, announced
that he had made the discovery of the remarkable effect arising from the cathode rays to which
reference was made above. He found that if a plate covered with a phosphorescent substance
is placed near a discharge tube exhausted so highly that the cathode rays produced a green
phosphorescence, this plate is made to glow in a peculiar manner. The rays producing this glow
were not the cathode rays, although apparently arising from them, and are what have since been
called the Roentgen rays, or X-rays.

Roentgen found that a shadow is thrown upon the screen by substances held between it and the
exhausted tube, the character of the shadow depending upon the density of the substance. Thus
metals are almost completely opaque to the rays; such substances as bone much less so, and
ordinary flesh hardly so at all. If a coin were held in the hand that had been interposed between
the tube and the screen the picture formed showed the coin as a black shadow; and the bones
of the hand, while casting a distinct shadow, showed distinctly lighter; while the soft tissues
produced scarcely any shadow at all. The value of such a discovery was obvious from the first;
and was still further enhanced by the discovery made shortly that, photographic plates are
affected by the rays, thus making it possible to make permanent photographic records of pictures
through what we know as opaque substances.

What adds materially to the practical value of Roentgen's discovery is the fact that the apparatus
for producing the X-rays is now so simple and relatively inexpensive that it is within the
reach even of amateur scientists. It consists essentially of an induction coil attached either
to cells or a street-current plug for generating the electricity, a focus tube, and a phosphorescence
screen. These focus tubes are made in various shapes, but perhaps the most popular are in the
form of a glass globe, not unlike an ordinary small-sized water-bottle, this tube being closed
and exhausted, and having the two poles (anode and cathode) sealed into the glass walls, but
protruding at either end for attachment to the conducting wires from the induction coil. This
tube may be mounted on a stand at a height convenient for manipulation. The phosphorescence
screen is usually a plate covered with some platino-cyanide and mounted in the end of a box
of convenient size, the opposite end of which is so shaped that it fits the contour of the
face, shutting out the light and allowing the eyes of the observer to focalize on the screen
at the end. For making observations the operator has simply to turn on the current of electricity
and apply the screen to his eyes, pointing it towards the glowing tube, when the shadow of
any substance interposed between the tube and the screen will appear upon the phosphorescence
plate.

The wonderful shadow pictures produced on the phosphorescence screen, or the photographic plate,
would seem to come from some peculiar form of light, but the exact nature of these rays is
still an open question. Whether the Roentgen rays are really a form of light--that is, a form
of "electro-magnetic disturbance propagated through ether," is not fully determined. Numerous
experiments have been undertaken to determine this, but as yet no proof has been found that
the rays are a form of light, although there appears to be nothing in their properties inconsistent
with their being so. For the moment most investigators are content to admit that the term X-ray
virtually begs the question as to the intimate nature of the form of energy involved.

VIII. THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY

As we have seen, it was in 1831 that Faraday opened up the field of magneto-electricity. Reversing
the experiments of his predecessors, who had found that electric currents may generate magnetism,
he showed that magnets have power under certain circumstances to generate electricity; he proved,
indeed, the interconvertibility of electricity and magnetism. Then he showed that all bodies
are more or less subject to the influence of magnetism, and that even light may be affected
by magnetism as to its phenomena of polarization. He satisfied himself completely of the true
identity of all the various forms of electricity, and of the convertibility of electricity
and chemical action. Thus he linked together light, chemical affinity, magnetism, and electricity.
And, moreover, he knew full well that no one of these can be produced in indefinite supply
from another. "Nowhere," he says, "is there a pure creation or production of power without
a corresponding exhaustion of something to supply it."

When Faraday wrote those words in 1840 he was treading on the very heels of a greater generalization
than any which he actually formulated; nay, he had it fairly within his reach. He saw a great
truth without fully realizing its import; it was left for others, approaching the same truth
along another path, to point out its full significance.

The great generalization which Faraday so narrowly missed is the truth which since then has
become familiar as the doctrine of the conservation of energy--the law that in transforming
energy from one condition to another we can never secure more than an equivalent quantity;
that, in short, "to create or annihilate energy is as impossible as to create or annihilate
matter; and that all the phenomena of the material universe consist in transformations of energy
alone." Some philosophers think this the greatest generalization ever conceived by the mind
of man. Be that as it may, it is surely one of the great intellectual landmarks of the nineteenth
century. It stands apart, so stupendous and so far-reaching in its implications that the generation
which first saw the law developed could little appreciate it; only now, through the vista of
half a century, do we begin to see it in its true proportions.

