    Two of these are by so much preferable before the other Two,
    that the first may worthily stand by the Sides of the best
    of the Ancients, whilst both the others must be placed under
    them; and a Man, without knowing more of them, may by reading
    their Books find the Difference between their Extractions,
    their Educations, their Conversations, and their Judgment. The
    first Two are Henry D'Avila and Cardinal Bentivoglio, both
    Italians of illustrious Birth; ... they often set forth and
    describe the same Actions with very pleasant and delightful
    Variety; and commonly the greatest Persons they have occasion
    to mention were very well known to them both, which makes
    their Characters always very lively. Both their Histories are
    excellent, and will instruct the ablest and wisest Men how to
    write, and terrify them from writing. The other Two were Hugo
    Grotius and Famianus Strada, who both wrote in Latin
    upon the same Argument, and of the same Time, of the Wars of
    Flanders, and of the Low-Countries.

He proceeds to show that Grotius, with all his learning and abilities, and with all his careful
revisions, had not been able to give his narrative enough life and spirit; it was deficient
in 'a lively Representation of Persons and Actions, which makes the Reader present at all they
say or do'. The whole passage, which is too long to be quoted in full, is not more valuable
as a criticism than as an indication of his own aims, and of his equipment to realize them.
Some years earlier, when he was still thinking 'with much agony' about the method he was to
employ in his own history, he had cited the methods of Davila, 'who', he added, 'I think hath
written as ours should be written.'[7]

One of Clarendon's tests of a good history, it will be noted, is the 'lively representation
of persons'; the better writers are distinguished by making 'their characters always very lively'.
In his own hands, and in Burnet's, the character assumes even greater importance than the continental
historians had given it. At every opportunity Clarendon leaves off his narrative of events
to describe the actors in the great drama, and Burnet introduces his main subject with what
is in effect an account of his dramatis personæ. They excel in the range and variety of their
characters. But they had studied the continental historians, and the encouragement of example
must not be forgotten.

       *       *       *       *       *

The debt to French literature can easily be overstated. No French influence is discoverable
in the origin and rise of the English character, nor in its form or manner; but its later development
may have been hastened by French example, especially during the third quarter of the seventeenth
century.

France was the home of the mémoire, the personal record in which the individual portrays himself
as the centre of his world, and describes events and persons in the light of his own experience.
It was established as a characteristic form of French literature in the sixteenth century,[8]
and it reached its full vigour and variety in the century of Sully, Rohan, Richelieu, Tallemant
des Réaux, Bassompierre, Madame de Motteville, Mlle de Montpensier, La Rochefoucauld, Villars,
Cardinal de Retz, Bussy-Rabutin--to name but a few. This was the age of the mémoire, always
interesting, often admirably written; and, as might be expected, sometimes exhibiting the art
of portraiture at perfection. The English memoir is comparatively late. The word, in the sense
of a narrative of personal recollections, was borrowed at the Restoration. The thing itself,
under other names, is older. It is a branch of history that flourishes in stirring and difficult
times when men believe themselves to have special information about hidden forces that directed
the main current of events, and we date it in this country from the period of the Civil Wars.
It is significant that when Shaftesbury in his old age composed his short and fragmentary autobiography
he began by saying, 'I in this follow the French fashion, and write my own memoirs.' Even Swift,
when publishing Temple's Memoirs, said that ''tis to the French (if I mistake not) we chiefly
owe that manner of writing; and Sir William Temple is not only the first, but I think the only
Englishman (at least of any consequence) who ever attempted it.' Few English memoirs were then
in print, whereas French memoirs were to be numbered by dozens. But the French fashion is not
to be regarded as an importation into English literature, supplying what had hitherto been
lacking. At most it stimulated what already existed.

The mémoire was not the only setting for French portraits at this time. There were the French
romances, and notably the Artamène ou le Grand Cyrus and the Clélie of Madeleine de Scudéry.
The full significance of the Grand Cyrus has been recovered for modern readers by Victor Cousin,
with great skill and charm, in his Société française au XVIIe siècle, where he has shown it
to be, 'properly speaking, a history in portraits'. The characters were drawn from familiar
figures in French society. 'Ainsi s'explique', says Cousin, 'l'immense succès du Cyrus dans
le temps où il parut. C'était une galerie des portraits vrais et frappants, mais un peu embellis,
où tout ce qu'il y avait de plus illustre en tout genre--princes, courtisans, militaires, beaux-esprits,
et surtout jolies femmes--allaient se chercher et se reconnaissaient avec un plaisir inexprimable.'[9]
It was easy to attack these romances. Boileau made fun of them because the classical names
borne by the characters were so absurdly at variance with the matter of the stories.[10] But
instead of giving, as he said, a French air and spirit to Greece and Rome, Madeleine de Scudéry
only gave Greek and Roman names to France as she knew it. The names were a transparent disguise
that was not meant to conceal the picture of fashionable society.

The next stage was the portrait by itself, without any setting. At the height of the popularity
of the romances, Mlle de Montpensier hit upon a new kind of entertainment for the talented
circle of which she was the brilliant centre. It was nothing more nor less than a paper game.
They drew each other, or persons whom they knew, or themselves, and under their real names.
And they played the game so well that what was written for amusement was worth printing. The
portrait was more than a fashion at this time in France; it was the rage. It therefore invited
the satirists. Molière has a passing jest at them in his Précieuses Ridicules;[14] Charles
Sorel published his Description de I'isle de la Portraiture et de la ville des Portraits; and
Boileau wrote his Héros de Roman.

The effects of all this in England are certainly not obvious. It is quite a tenable view that
the English characters would have been no less numerous, nor in any way different in quality,
had every Englishman been ignorant of French. But the mémoires and romances were well known,
and it was after 1660 that the art of the character attained its fullest excellence. The literary
career of Clarendon poses the question in a simple form. Most of his characters, and the best
as a whole, were written at Montpelier towards the close of his life. Did he find in French
literature an incentive to indulge and perfect his natural bent? Yet there can be no conclusive
answer to those who find a sufficient explanation in the leisure of these unhappy years, and
in the solace that comes to chiefs out of war and statesmen out of place in ruminating on their
experiences and impressions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Something may have been learned also from the other kind of character that is found at its
best in modern literature in the seventeenth century, the character derived from Theophrastus,
and depicting not the individual but the type. In France, the one kind led on to the other.
The romances of Scudéry prepared the way for the Caractères ou les Moeurs de ce Siècle of La
Bruyère. When the fashionable portrait of particular persons fell out of favour, there arose
in its place the description of dispositions and temperaments; and in the hands of La Bruyère
'the manners of the century' were the habits and varieties of human nature. In England the
two kinds existed side by side. They correspond to the two methods of the drama. Begin with
the individual, but draw him in such a way that we recognize in him our own or others' qualities;
or begin with the qualities shared by classes of people, embody these in a person who stands
for the greatest common measure of the class, and finally--and only then--let him take on his
distinctive traits: these are methods which are not confined to the drama, and at all stages
of our literature have lived in helpful rivalry. Long before France had her La Bruyère, England
had her Hall, Overbury, and Earle.[15] The Theophrastan character was at its best in this country
at the beginning of the seventeenth century when the historical character was still in its
early stages; and it was declining when the historical character had attained its full excellence.
They cannot always be clearly distinguished, and they are sometimes purposely blended, as in
Butler's character of 'A Duke of Bucks,' where the satire on a man of pronounced individuality
is heightened by describing his eccentricities as if they belonged to a recognized class.

The great lesson that the Theophrastan type of character could teach was the value of balance
and unity. A haphazard statement of features and habits and peculiarities might suffice for
a sketch, but perspective and harmony were necessary to a finished portrait. It taught that
the surest method in depicting character was first to conceive the character as a whole, and
then to introduce detail incidentally and in proper subordination. But the same lesson could
have been learned elsewhere. It might have been learned from the English drama.

[Footnote 1: North's Plutarch went into five editions between 1579 and 1631; Thucydides was
translated by Hobbes in 1629, and Polybius by Edward Grimeston in 1633; Xenophon's Anabasis
was translated by John Bingham in 1623, and the Cyropædia by Philemon Holland in 1632; Arthur
Golding's version of Cæsar's Gallic War was several times reprinted between 1565 and 1609;
Philemon Holland, the translator-general of the age, as Fuller called him, brought out his
Livy in 1600, and his Suetonius in 1606; Sallust was translated by Thomas Heywood in 1608,
and by William Crosse in 1629; Velleius Paterculus was 'rendred English by Sir Robert Le Grys'
in 1632; and by 1640 there had been six editions of Sir Henry Savile's Histories and Agricola
of Tacitus, first published in 1591, and five editions of Richard Grenewey's Annals and Germany,
first published in 1598. See H.R. Palmer's English Editions and Translations of Greek and Latin
Classics printed before 1641, Bibliographical Society, 1911.]

[Footnote 2: 'Thucydides ... in whom (I beleeve with many others) the Faculty of writing History
is at the Highest.' Thucydides, 1629, 'To the Readers.']

[Footnote 3: Philemon Holland's Livy, 1600, 'Dedication to Elizabeth.']

[Footnote 4: Sir Henry Savile's Tacitus, 1591, 'A.B. To the Reader.']

[Footnote 5: Supplement to Burnet's History, ed. H.C. Foxcroft, p. 451.]

[Footnote 6: In 'Reflections upon Several Christian Duties, Divine and Moral, by Way of Essays',
printed in A Collection of several Tracts of Edward Earl of Clarendon, 1727, pp. 80-1.]

[Footnote 7: Letter to the Earl of Bristol, February 1, 1646 (State Papers, vol. ii, p. 334).
Davila was very well known in England--better, it would appear, than the other three--and was
credited with being more than a mere literary model. Clarendon says that from his account of
the civil wars of France 'no question our Gamesters learned much of their play'. Sir Philip
Warwick, after remarking that Hampden was well read in history, tells us that the first time
he ever saw Davila's book it was lent to him 'under the title of Mr. Hambden's Vade Mecum'
(Mémoires, 1701, p. 240). A translation was published by the authority of the Parliament in
1647-8. Translations of Strada, Bentivoglio, and Grotius followed in 1650, 1654, and 1665.
Only parts of Thuanus were translated. The size of his history was against a complete version.]

[Footnote 8: See the Mémoires of Monluc, Brantôme, La Noue, &c. The fifty-two volumes in Petitot's
incomplete series entitled Collection des Mémoires relatifs à l'histoire de France jusqu'au
commencement du dix-septième siècle show at a glance the remarkable richness of French literature
in the mémoire at an early date.]

[Footnote 9: La Socíété française au XVIIe siècle, 1858 vol. i, p. 7. The 'key' drawn up in
1657 is printed as an appendix.]

[Footnote 10: Art poétique, iii. 115-18.]

[Footnote 11: Cousin, Madame de Sablé, 1854, pp. 42-8.]

[Footnote 12: Edited by Edouard de Barthélemy in 1860 under the title La Galerie des Portraits
de Mademoiselle de Montpensier.]

[Footnote 13: Edited by Ch. Livet, 1856 (Bibliothèque Elzevirienne. 2 vols.).]

[Footnote 14: Sc. x, where Madelon says 'Je vous avoue que je suis furieusement pour les portraits:
je ne vois rien de si galant que cela', and Mascarille replies, 'Les portraits sont difficiles,
et demandent un esprit profond: vous en verrez de ma manière qui ne vous déplairont pas.']

[Footnote 15: Joseph Hall's Characters of Vertues and Vices appeared in 1608 Overbury's Characters
1614-22. For Earle, see pp. 168-70.]

III. Clarendon.

Clarendon's History of the Rebellion and Civil Wars in England is made up of two works composed
with different purposes and at a distance of twenty years. The first, which may be called the
'Manuscript History', belongs to 1646-8; the second, the 'Manuscript Life', to 1668-70. They
were combined to form the History as we now read it in 1671, when new sections were added to
give continuity and to complete the narrative. On Clarendon's death in 1674 the manuscripts
passed to his two sons, Henry Hyde, second Earl of Clarendon, and Laurence Hyde, Earl of Rochester;
and under the supervision of the latter a transcript of the History was made for the printers.
The work was published at Oxford in three handsome folio volumes in 1702, 1703, and 1704, and
became the property of the University. The portions of the 'Manuscript Life' which Clarendon
had not incorporated in the History as being too personal, were published by the University
in 1759, under the title The Life of Edward Earl of Clarendon, and were likewise printed from
a transcript.[1]

The original manuscripts, now also in the possession of the University of which Clarendon's
family were such generous benefactors, enable us to fix the dates of composition. We know whether
a part belongs originally to the 'Manuscript History' or the 'Manuscript Life', or whether
it was pieced in later. More than this, Clarendon every now and again inserts the month and
the day on which he began or ended a section. We can thus trace the stages by which his great
work was built up, and learn how his art developed. We can also judge how closely the printed
texts represent what Clarendon had written. The old controversy on the authenticity of the
first edition has long been settled.[2] The original editors did their work faithfully according
to the editorial standards of their day; and they were well within the latitude allowed them
by the terms of Clarendon's instructions when they occasionally omitted a passage, or when
they exercised their somewhat prim and cautious taste in altering and polishing phrases that
Clarendon had dashed down as quickly as his pen could move.[3] Later editors have restored
the omitted passages and scrupulously reproduced Clarendon's own words. But no edition has
yet reproduced his spelling. In the characters printed in this volume the attempt is made,
for the first time it is believed, to represent the original manuscripts accurately to the
letter.[4]

On the defeat of the last Royalist army in Cornwall in February 1646 it was necessary to provide
for the safety of Prince Charles, and Clarendon, in these days Sir Edward Hyde, accompanied
him when on the night of March 2 he set sail for Scilly. They arrived in Scilly on March 4,
and there they remained till April 16, when the danger of capture by the Parliamentary fleet
compelled them to make good their escape to Jersey. It is a remarkable testimony to the vigour
of Clarendon's mind that even in the midst of this crisis he should have been able to begin
his History. He began it in Scilly on March 18, 1646--the date is at the head of his manuscript;
and once he was settled in Jersey he immediately resumed it. But in writing his History he
did not, in these days, think of himself only as an historian. He was a trusted adviser of
the defeated party, and he planned his faithful narrative of what he knew so well not solely
to vindicate the character and conduct of the King, but also with the immediate purpose of
showing how the disasters had been brought out, and, by implication, how further disaster might
be avoided. The proof of this is to be found not in the History itself, where he seems to have
his eye only on 'posterity' and 'a better age', but in his correspondence. In a letter written
to Sir Edward Nicholas, the King's secretary, on November 15, 1646, Clarendon spoke of his
History at some length:

    As soon as I found myself alone, I thought the best way to
    provide myself for new business against the time I should be
    called to it (for, Mr. Secretary, you and I must once again
    to business) was to look over the faults of the old; and so
    I resolved (which you know I threatned you with long ago) to
    write the history of these evil times, and of this most lovely
    Rebellion. Well; without any other help than a few diurnals
    I have wrote of longer paper than this, and in the same fine
    small hand, above threescore sheets of paper.... I write with
    all fidelity and freedom of all I know, of persons and things,
    and the oversights and omissions on both sides, in order to
    what they desired; so that you will believe it will make mad
    work among friends and foes, if it were published; but out
    of it enough may be chosen to make a perfect story, and the
    original kept for their perusal, who may be the wiser for
    knowing the most secret truths; and you know it will be an
    easier matter to blot out two sheets, than to write half an
    one. If I live to finish it (as on my conscience I shall, for
    I write apace), I intend to seal it up, and have it always
    with me. If I die, I appoint it to be delivered to you, to
    whose care (with a couple of good fellows more) I shall leave
    it; that either of you dying, you may so preserve it, that
    in due time somewhat by your care may be published, and the
    original be delivered to the King, who will not find himself
    flattered in it, nor irreverently handled: though, the truth
    will better suit a dead than a living man. Three hours a
    day I assign to this writing task; the rest to other study
    and books; so I doubt not after seven years time in this
    retirement, you will find me a pretty fellow.[5]

From this, as from other passages in his letters, Clarendon's first intentions are clear. The
History was to be a repository of authentic information on 'this most lovely Rebellion', constructed
with the specifically didactic purpose of showing the King and his advisers what lessons were
to be learned from their errors; they would be 'the wiser for knowing the most secret truths'.
At first he looked on his work as containing the materials of a 'perfect story', but as he
proceeded his ambitions grew. He had begun to introduce characters; and when in the spring
of 1647 he was about to write his first character of Lord Falkland, he had come to the view
that 'the preservation of the fame and merit of persons, and deriving the same to posterity,
is no less the business of history than the truth of things'.[6] He gave much thought to the
character of Falkland, 'whom the next age shall be taught', he was determined, 'to value more
than the present did.'[7] Concurrently with the introduction of characters he paid more attention
to the literary, as distinct from the didactic, merits of his work. We find him comparing himself
with other historians, and considering what Livy and Tacitus would have done in like circumstances.
By the spring of 1648 he had brought down his narrative to the opening of the campaign of 1644.
Earlier in the year he had been commanded by the King to be ready to rejoin Prince Charles,
and shortly afterwards he received definite instructions from the Queen to attend on her and
the Prince at Paris. He left Jersey in June, and with his re-entry into active politics his
History was abruptly ended. The seven years of retirement which he had anticipated were cut
down by the outbreak of the Second Civil War to two; and within a year the King for whose benefit
he had begun this History was led to the scaffold. Not for twenty years was Clarendon again
to have the leisure to be an historian. When in 1668 he once more took up his pen, it was not
a continuation of the first work, but an entirely new work, that came in steady flow from the
abundance of his knowledge.

Clarendon returned to England as Lord Chancellor in 1660, and for seven years enjoyed the power
which he had earned by ceaseless devotion to his two royal masters. The ill success of the
war with the Dutch, jealousy of his place and influence, the spiteful opposition of the King's
chief mistress, and the King's own resentment at an attitude that showed too little deference
and imprudently suggested the old relations of tutor and pupil, all combined to bring about
his fall. He fled from England on November 30, 1667, and was never to set foot in England again.
Broken in health and spirit, he sought in vain for many months a resting-place in France, and
not till July 1668 did he find a new home at Montpelier. Here his health improved, and here
he remained till June 1671. These were busy years of writing, and by far the greater portion
of his published work, if his letters and state papers be excluded, belongs to this time. First
of all he answered the charge of high treason brought against him by the House of Commons in
A Discourse, by Way of Vindication of my self, begun on July 24, 1668; he wrote most of his
Reflections upon Several Christian Duties, Divine and Moral, a collection of twenty-five essays,
some of considerable length, on subjects largely suggested by his own circumstances; and he
completed between December 1668 and February 1671 his Contemplations and Reflections upon the
Psalms of David, an elaborate exposition extending to well over four hundred folio pages of
print, which he had begun at Jersey in 1647. But his great work at this time was his Life,
begun on July 23, 1668, and brought down to 1660 by August 1, 1670. It is by far the most elaborate
autobiography that had yet been attempted in English. The manuscript consists of over six hundred
pages, and each page contains on an average about a thousand words. He wrote with perfect freedom,
for this work, unlike the earlier History, was not intended for the eyes of the King, and the
didactic days were over. He wrote too with remarkable ease. The very appearance of the manuscript,
where page follows page with hardly an erasure, and the 'fine hand' becomes finer and finer,
conveys even a sense of relief and pleasure. His pen seems to move of itself and the long and
elaborate sentences to evolve of their own free will. The story of his life became a loose
framework into which he could fit all that he wished to tell of his own times; and the more
he told, his vindication would be the more complete. 'Even unawares', he admitted, 'many things
are inserted not so immediately applicable to his own person, which possibly may hereafter,
in some other method, be communicated to the world.'[8] He welcomed the opportunity to tell
all that he knew. There was no reason for reticence. He wrote of men as of things frankly as
he knew them. More than a history of the Rebellion, his Life is also a picture of the society
in which he had moved. It is the work which contains most of his characters.[9]

His early History had been left behind in England on his sudden flight. For about four years
he was debarred from all intercourse with his family, but in 1671 the royal displeasure so
far relaxed that his second son, Laurence, was granted a pass to visit him, and he brought
the manuscript that had been left untouched for twenty years. They met in June at Moulins,
which was to be Clarendon's home till April 1674. Once the old and the new work were both in
his hands, he cast his great History of the Rebellion in its final form, and thus 'finished
the work which his heart was most set upon'. In June 1672 he turned to the 'Continuation of
his Life', which deals with his Chancellorship and his fall, and was not intended 'ever for
a public view, or for more than the information of his children'. As its conclusion shows,
it was his last work to be completed, but while engaged on it he found time to write much else,
including his reply to Hobbes's Leviathan. 'In all this retirement', he could well say, in
a passage which reads like his obituary, 'he was very seldom vacant, and then only when he
was under some sharp visitation of the gout, from reading excellent books, or writing some
animadversions and exercitations of his own, as appears by the papers and notes which he left.'
The activity of these years of banishment is remarkable in a man who had turned sixty and had
passed through about thirty years of continuous storm. His intellectual vitality was unimpaired.
The old English jollity that Evelyn had remarked in him in happier if more difficult days had
gone, but the even temper from which it had sprung still remained. He was at his best as a
writer then; writing was never an effort to him, but in his exile it was an exercise and recreation.

He was still in hopes that he would be allowed to return to England, to die in his own country
and among his children. 'Seven years', he said, 'was a time prescribed and limited by God himself
for the expiration of some of his greatest judgements.'[10] In the seventh year of his banishment
he left Moulins for Rouen, so as to be nearer home. His hopes were vain. He died at Rouen on
December 9, 1674.[11] His body was brought to England for burial in Westminster.

       *       *       *       *       *

Clarendon had been interested in the study of character all his life. Sir Henry Wotton had
written observations on these statesmen 'by way of parallel', and Clarendon pointed out as
a sequel wherein they differed. It is a somewhat laboured composition in comparison with his
later work, a young man's careful essay that lacks the confidence that comes with experience,
but it shows at an early stage the talents which knowledge and practice were to develop into
mastery. The school in which he learned most was the circle of his friends. Few men can have
owed more to their friends than he did, or have been more generous in acknowledging the debt.
He cultivated his friendships, it is true, with an eye to his advancement; but it is equally
true that he had a nature which invited friendships. He enjoyed to the full the pleasure of
living and seeing others live, and a great part of his pleasure consisted in observing how
men differed in their habits and foibles. He tells how Ben Jonson did not understand why young
Mr. Hyde should neglect the delights of his company at the call of business; how Selden, with
all his stupendous learning, was never more studious of anything than his ease; how Earle gave
a wrong impression by the negligence of his dress and mien, whereas no man was more wary and
cultivated in his behaviour and discourse; how Chillingworth argued for the pleasure of arguing
and thereby irritated his friends and at last grew confident of nothing; how Hales, great in
scholarship but diminutive in stature, liked to be by himself but had a very open and pleasant
conversation in congenial company; how Waller nursed his reputation for ready wit by seeming
to speak on the sudden what he had thoroughly considered. In all his accounts of the friends
of his youth Clarendon is in the background, but we picture him moving among them at ease,
conscious of his inferiority in learning and brilliance and the gentler virtues, yet trusting
to his own judgement, and convinced that every man worth knowing has a pronounced individuality.
In these happy and irresponsible days, when he numbered poets among his friends, he himself
wrote poetry. Little of it is preserved. He contributed introductory verses to Davenant's Albovine,
and composed verses on the death of Donne. His poetry was well enough known for Dryden to allude
to it during his Lord Chancellorship, in the address presented to him at the height of his
power in 1662:

  The Muses, who your early Courtship boast,
  Though now your Flames are with their Beauty lost,
  Yet watch their Time, that if you have forgot
  They were your Mistresses, the world may not.

