The number of castes varies on different islands: in Ambrym there are fourteen, in Venua Lava
twenty, in Aoba ten. On some islands, Santo, for example, the caste-system is connected with
a severe separation of the fires; each caste cooks over its own fire, and loses its degree
on eating food cooked on the fire of a lower caste. In these districts the floor of the gamal
is frequently marked by bamboo rods or sticks in as many divisions as there are castes each
containing one fireplace. The highest castes sit at the front end of the gamal, the lower at
the back; these are forbidden to enter the gamal from the front, in order not to touch or step
over the fireplaces of their superiors. At each rise in caste the novice receives the new fire,
rubbed on a special stick and decorated with flowers; certain ceremonies attend the cooking
of the first food with this new fire. It is then carefully tended in the fireplace, and if
it goes out it has to be rubbed afresh with the stick. The number of pigs necessary to a rise
in caste also varies on the different islands. Generally, only tusked pigs are counted, and
there are feasts at which as many as forty of these valuable animals are killed. Naturally,
the high-castes cannot keep all the animals themselves, but they lend them, like money, to
those who do not possess the number needed to rise in caste; in this way a complicated credit-system
has developed, by which the so-called chiefs support and strengthen their influence and tyrannize
the country.

A young man, as a rule, owns no tusked pigs. If he wishes to raise his caste, he has to borrow
from the rich high-castes, who are very willing to help him, but only at exorbitant rates of
interest. First he has to win their favour by presents, and then he has to promise to return
a more valuable pig later. The bargain made, the transaction takes place publicly with some
ceremony. The population of the district assembles, and all the transactions are ratified which
have been negotiated in private. The owner holds the pig, the borrower dances around him and
then takes the animal away. All the spectators serve as witnesses, and there is no need of
a written bill. In this way nearly all the men of lower rank are in debt to the high-castes,
and dependent on their goodwill, and these can obtain anything they like, simply by pressing
their debtors to pay for their pigs.

As a rule, the highest castes of a district work together; they are the high priests, who arrange
everything connected with the "Suque," set the dates for the feasts, and decide whether a man
shall be permitted to raise his caste. They are practically omnipotent, until one of them rises
by still larger sacrifices to a still higher caste, and becomes sole master. If there are no
more degrees to reach, the whole scale is run through again an octave higher, so to speak.
The jaws of the killed pigs are hung up in the gamal in bundles or rows, as a sign of the wealth
and power of the proprietor. These chiefs are in connection with the mightiest spirits, have
supernatural power and are as much hated as they are feared.

There is another independent witchcraft beside the "Suque," for weather-making, charms and
poisoning, which is known to private men. They take expensive "lessons" from old sorcerers,
and transmit their art to the young men they consider clever enough, for good wages. These
are the real mischief-makers, for they will lend their murderous assistance to anyone for adequate
payment.

In some islands there is also a "Suque" for the women, but it is quite independent of that
of the men, and its degrees are easier to reach. Still, women of high rank enjoy a certain
consideration from the men.

Real chiefs do not exist in the northern part of the New Hebrides, but the chiefs are the high-castes,
who, according to their rank and the strength of their personality, have more or less influence.
They cannot give direct orders, but rule indirectly through pressure, threats and encouragement.
Officially, all decisions are taken in a meeting of the whole "Suque." The chieftainship is
not hereditary, but the sons and especially the nephews of high-castes generally reach high
degrees themselves, being pushed by their relatives, who are naturally anxious to be surrounded
by faithful and influential friends. Thus there have risen aristocratic families, who think
themselves better than the others, and do not like to mix with common people. Daughters of
these families command high prices, and are therefore accessible only to rich men, that is,
men of high caste. Young men of less good family are naturally poor, and since a woman, as
a rule, costs five pigs, it is almost impossible for them to marry, whereas old men can buy
up all the young, pretty girls; the social consequences of this system are obvious. In Vao
conditions are not quite so bad, because there is considerable wealth, and women are numerous,
so that even young men are enabled to have a family; in consequence, the race here is healthier
than elsewhere.

In Vao I had occasion to attend a death-feast. The hero of the day was still alive and in excellent
health; but he did not quite trust his family, and wishing to make sure that his death-feast
would not be forgotten, he held it during his lifetime. His anxiety about the feast is explained
by the following facts. According to Vao beliefs, the souls of the dead travel to the island
of Ambrym, and after five days climb a narrow trail up to the volcano. In order that the soul
may not starve on the way, the survivors often make a small canoe, load it with food and push
it off into the sea, thinking it will drift after the soul. It is generally stranded behind
the nearest point, bringing the neighbours a welcome addition to the day's rations. This custom
is in contradiction to the feeding of the body through a tube, and proves that quite contradictory
customs can exist simultaneously, without the natives noticing it. Half-way up the volcano
sits a monster with two immense shears, like a crab. If no pigs have been sacrificed for the
soul by the fifth day, the poor soul is alone and the monster swallows it; but if the sacrifice
has been performed, the souls of the sacrificed pigs follow after the human soul, and as the
monster prefers pig, the human has time to escape and to reach the entrance to paradise on
top of the volcano, where there are pigs, women, dancing and feasting in plenty.

The feast I was to attend had been in preparation for some time. On all the dancing-grounds
long bamboos were in readiness, loaded with yams and flowers, as presents to the host. Everything
was brought to his gamal, and the whole morning passed in distributing the gifts, each family
receiving a few yams, a little pig, some sprouted cocoa-nuts and a few rolls of money. This
money consists of long, narrow, fringed mats, neatly rolled up; in this case they were supposed
to be the mats in which the dead are buried, and which are taken out of the grave after a while.
These mats formerly served as small coin, as similar mats are still used on other islands,
and they still represent a value of about one shilling; but in daily life they have been quite
replaced by European coin, and only appear on such ceremonial occasions.

All the gifts were piled up, and when the host was convinced that every guest had received
his just dues, he took a stick and smashed the heads of all the pigs that were tied up in readiness
for this ceremony. They struggled for a moment, the dogs came and licked the blood, and then
each guest took away his portion, to have a private feast at home. The whole performance made
a desperately business-like impression, and everything was done most prosaically; as for me,
having no better dinner than usual to look forward to, I quite missed the slightly excited
holiday feeling that ought to go with a great feast. Formerly, the braining of the pigs was
done with skilfully carved clubs, instead of mere sticks, and this alone must have given the
action something of solemnity; but these clubs have long since been sold to collectors and
never replaced.

In spite of their frequent intercourse with whites, the people of Vao are still confirmed cannibals,
only they have not many opportunities for gratifying their taste in this direction. Still,
not many years ago, they had killed and eaten an enemy, and each individual, even the little
children, had received a small morsel of the body to eat, either with the idea of destroying
the enemy entirely, or as the greatest insult that could be offered to him.

These same people can be so gay, childlike, kind and obliging, tactful and generous, that one
can hardly believe the accounts one often hears of sudden outbreaks of brutal savagery, devilish
wickedness, ingratitude and falsehood, until one has experienced them himself. The flattering
and confiding child will turn suddenly and without apparent reason into a man full of gloom
and hatred. All those repressing influences which lead the dwellers in civilized lands to some
consistency of action are lacking here, and the morals of the natives run along other lines
than ours. Faith and truth are no virtues, constancy and perseverance do not exist. The same
man who can torture his wife to death from wanton cruelty, holding her limbs over the fire
till they are charred, etc., will be inconsolable over the death of a son for a long time,
and will wear a curl, a tooth or a finger-joint of the dead as a valuable relic round his neck;
and the same man who is capable of preparing a murder in cold blood for days, may, in some
propitious evening hour, relate the most charming and poetic fairy-tales. A priest whom I met
knew quite a number of such stories from a man whom he had digged alive out of the grave, where
his relatives had buried him, thinking him old enough to die. This is not a rare occurrence;
sometimes the old people themselves are tired of life and ask to be killed.

What has preserved the old customs so well on Vao is the aversion of the natives to plantation
work. But one day, while I was there, a ship rode at anchor off the coast, and a member of
the French survey party landed, collected all the men on the beach, and told them that unless
there were thirty men on board that evening, the whole tribe would be driven out of the island,
as the island belonged to the French company. This was, to say the least, extremely doubtful;
moreover, it would never have been feasible to expropriate the natives in this summary way.
They were furious, but, unprotected as they were, they had to obey, and in the evening nearly
all the young men assembled on the beach and were taken away in whale-boats, disappearing in
the mist and darkness of the night. The old men and the women remained behind, crying loudly,
so that the terrible wailing sounded sadly over the sea. Even to the mere spectator it was
a tragic moment when the tribe was thus orphaned of its best men, and one could not help being
revolted by the whole proceeding. It was not womanish pity for the men who were taken off to
work, but regret for the consequent disappearance of immemorial forms of tribal life. Next
day the beach was empty. Old men and women crossed over to the yam-fields, the little children
played as usual, but the gay shouts were silent, the beautiful, brown, supple-bodied young
men were gone, and I no longer felt the joy of living which had been Vao's greatest charm.
The old men were sulky and sad, and spoke of leaving Vao for good and settling somewhere far
inland. It is not surprising that the whole race has lost the will to live, and that children
are considered an undesirable gift, of which one would rather be rid. What hopelessness lies
in the words I once heard a woman of Vao say: "Why should we have any more children? Since
the white man came they all die." And die they certainly do. Regions that once swarmed with
people are now lonely; where, ten years ago, there were large villages, we find the desert
bush, and in some districts the population has decreased by one-third in the last seven years.
In fifteen years the native race will have practically disappeared.

CHAPTER VI

PORT OLRY AND A "SING-SING"

The event just described reduced my chance of finding servants in Vao to a minimum, as all
the able-bodied young men had been taken away. I therefore sailed with the missionary for his
station at Port Olry. Our route lay along the east coast of Santo. Grey rain-clouds hung on
the high mountains in the interior, the sun shone faintly through the misty atmosphere, the
greyish-blue sea and the greyish-green shore, with the brown boulders on the beach, formed
a study in grey, whose hypnotic effect was increased by a warm, weary wind. Whoever was not
on duty at the tiller lay down on deck, and as in a dream we floated slowly along the coast
past lonely islands and bays; whenever we looked up we saw the same picture, only the outlines
seemed to have shifted a little. We anchored near a lonely isle, to find out whether its only
inhabitant, an old Frenchman, was still alive. He had arrived there a year ago, full of the
most brilliant hopes, which, however, had not materialized. He had no boat, hardly ever saw
a human being, and lived on wild fruits. Hardly anyone knows him or visits him, but he had
not lost courage, and asked for nothing but a little salt, which we gave him, and then sailed on.

In Hog Harbour we spent the night and enjoyed a hearty English breakfast with the planters,
the Messrs. Th., who have a large and beautiful plantation; then we continued our cruise. The
country had changed somewhat; mighty banks of coral formed high tablelands that fell vertically
down to the sea, and the living reef stretched seaward under the water. These tablelands were
intersected by flat valleys, in the centre of which rose steep hills, like huge bastions dominating
the country round. The islands off the coast were covered with thick vegetation, with white
chalk cliffs gleaming through them at intervals. A thin mist filled the valleys with violet
hues, the sea was bright and a fresh breeze carried us gaily along. The aspect of the country
displayed the energies of elemental powers: nowhere can the origin of chalk mountains be more
plainly seen than here, where we have the process before us in all its stages, from the living
reef, shining purple through the sea, to the sandy beach strewn with bits of coral, to the
high table mountain. We anchored at a headland near a small river, and were cordially welcomed
by the missionary's dogs, cats, pigs and native teacher. There was also a young girl whom the
father had once dug out of her grave, where a hard-hearted mother had buried her.

I had an extremely interesting time at Port Olry. The population here is somewhat different
from that of the rest of Santo: very dark-skinned, tall and different in physiognomy. It may
be called typically Melanesian, while many other races show Polynesian admixture. The race
here is very strong, coarse-featured and lives in the simplest way, without any industries,
and is the primitive population in the New Hebrides.

A few details as to personal appearance may be of interest. Among the ornaments used are very
large combs, decorated with pigs' tails. Pigs' tails also are stuck into the hair and ears.
The hair is worn very long, rolled into little curls and plentifully oiled. A most peculiar
deformation is applied to the nose and results in extreme ugliness: the septum is perforated,
and instead of merely inserting a stick, a springy spiral is used, which presses the nose upward
and forward, so that in time it develops into an immense, shapeless lump, as if numberless
wasps had stung it. It takes a long time to get used to this sight, especially as the nose
is made still more conspicuous by being painted with a bright red stripe on its point, and
two black ones on each side. A more attractive ornament are flowers, which the men stick into
their hair, where they are very effective on the dark background. In the lobes of the ears
they wear spirals of tortoise-shell or thin ornaments of bone; the men often paint their faces
with a mixture of soot and grease, generally the upper half of the forehead, the lower part
of the cheeks and the back of the nose. The women and children prefer the red juice of a fruit,
with which they paint their faces in all sorts of mysterious designs.

The dress of the men consists of a large belt, purposely worn very low so as to show the beautiful
curve of the loins. About six small mats hang down in front. Formerly, and even at the present
day on festival occasions, they wore on the back an ovoid of wood; the purpose is quite unknown,
but may originally have been a portable seat, as the Melanesian does not like to sit on the
bare ground. Provided with this article of dress the wearer did not need to look about for a seat.

If the appearance of the men, while not beautiful, is at least impressive, the women are so
very much disfigured that it takes quite some time to grow accustomed to their style of beauty.
They are not allowed to wear many ornaments, have to shave their heads, and generally rub them
with lime, so that they look rather like white-headed vultures, all the more so as the deformed
nose protrudes like a beak and the mouth is large. The two upper incisors are broken out as
a sign of matrimony.

Their figures, except in young girls, are generally wasted, yet one occasionally meets with
a woman of fine and symmetrical build. The dress is restricted to a small leaf, attached to
a thin loin-string. Both men and women generally wear at the back a bundle of leaves; women
and boys have strongly scented herbs, the men coloured croton, the shade depending on the caste
of the wearer. The highest castes wear the darkest, nearly black, varieties. These croton bushes
are planted along the sides of the gamals, so as to furnish the men's ornaments; and they lend
the sombre places some brightness and colour.

Half for ornament and half for purposes of healing are the large scars which may frequently
be seen on the shoulders or breasts of the natives. The cuts are supposed to cure internal
pains; the scabs are frequently scratched off, until the scar is large and high, and may be
considered ornamental. Apropos of this medical detail I may mention another remedy, for rheumatism:
with a tiny bow and arrow a great number of small cuts are shot into the skin of the part affected;
the scars from these wounds form a network of fine, hardly noticeable designs on the skin.

The life and cult of the natives are as simple as their dress. The houses are scattered and
hidden in the bush, grouped vaguely around the gamal, which stands alone on a bare square.
No statues stand there, nor tall, upright drums; only a few small drums lie in a puddle around
the gamal.

The dwelling-houses are simply gable-roofs, always without side-walls and often without any
walls at all. They are divided into a pig-stable and a living-room, unless the owners prefer
to have their pigs living in the same space with themselves.

