Jewelry I never saw him wear; but there was one little compartment in his library filled with
what in a certain sense might be called jewelry, and of a kind that he had good reason to be
proud of. In one of the drawers was a sword made out of a key of the Bastile, and presented
to him by the city of Paris. The other key he sent to Washington. When he was a young man the
Bastile was a reality, and those keys still plied their dismal work at the bidding of a power
as insensible to the suffering it caused as the steel of which they were made. Of the hundreds
who with sinking hearts had heard them turn in their massive wards, how few had ever come back
to tell the tale of their misery! Lafayette himself, but for the quick wit of a servant-maid,
might have passed there some of the youthful days that he passed at the side of Washington,
and gazed dimly, as at a dream, in the Bastile, at what he could look back upon as a proud
reality in Olmütz. Another of his relics was a civic crown, oak-leaf wrought in gold, the gift
of the city of Lyons; but this belonged to a later period, his last visit to Auvergne, the
summer before the Revolution of July, and which called forth as enthusiastic a display of popular
affection as that which had greeted his last visit to America. But the one which he seemed
to prize most was a very plain pair of eye-glasses, in a simple horn case, if my memory does
not deceive me, but which, in his estimation, neither gold nor jewels could have replaced,
for they had once belonged to Washington. "He gave them to me," said the General, "on my last
visit to Mount Vernon."

He was an early riser, and his work began the moment he left his pillow. First came his letters,
always a heavy drain upon his time; for he had been so long a public man that everybody felt
free to consult him, and everybody that consulted him was sure of a polite answer. Then his
personal friends had their claims, some of them running back to youth, some the gradual accession
of later years, and all of them cherished with that genial and confiding expansiveness which
was the great charm of his private life, and the chief source, when he did err, of his errors
as a public man. Like all the men of Washington's school, he was systematically industrious;
and by dint of system and industry his immense correspondence was seldom allowed to get the
start of him. Important letters were answered as they came, and minutes or copies of the answers
kept for reference. He seemed to love his pen, and to write without effort,--never aiming,
it is true, at the higher graces of style, somewhat diffuse, too, both in French and in English,
but easy, natural, idiomatic, and lucid, with the distinctness of clear conceptions rather
than the precision of vigorous conceptions, and a warmth which in his public letters sometimes
rose to eloquence, and in his private letters often made you feel as if you were listening
instead of reading.

He was fond of anecdote, and told his stories with the fluency of a man accustomed to public
speaking, and the animation and point of a man accustomed to the society of men of wit as well
as of men of action. His recollections were wonderfully distinct, and it always gave me a peculiar
thrill to hear him talk about the great men he had lived and acted with in both hemispheres,
as familiarly as if he had parted from them only an hour before. It was bringing history very
close to me, and peopling it with living beings,--beings of flesh and blood, who ate and drank
and slept and wore clothes as we do; for here was one of them, the friend and companion of
the greatest among them all, whom I had known through books, as I knew them long before I knew
him in actual life, and every one of whose words and gestures seemed to give me a clearer conception
of what they, too, must have been.

Still he never appeared to live in the recollections of his youth, as most old men do. His
life was too active a one for this, and the great principles he had consecrated it to were
too far-reaching and comprehensive, too full of living, actual interest, too fresh and vigorous
in their vitality, to allow a man of his sanguine and active temperament to forget himself
in the past when there was so much to do in the present. This gave a peculiar charm to his
conversation; for, no matter what the subject might be, he always talked like a man who believed
what he said, and whose faith, a living principle of thought and action, was constantly kept
in a genial glow by the quickness and depth of his sympathies. His smile told this; for it
was full of sweetness and gentleness, though with a dash of earnestness about it, an under-current
of serious thought, that made you feel as if you wanted to look behind it, and reminded you,
at times, of a landscape at sunset, when there is just light enough to show you how many things
there are in it that you would gladly dwell upon, if the day were only a little longer.

His intercourse with his children was affectionate and confiding,--that with his daughters
touchingly so. They had shared with him two years of his captivity at Olmütz, and he seemed
never to look at them without remembering it. They had been his companions when he most needed
companionship, and had learnt to enter into his feelings and study his happiness at an age
when most girls are absorbed in themselves. The effect of this early discipline was never lost.
They had found happiness where few seek it, in self-denial and self-control, a religious cultivation
of domestic affections, and a thoughtful development of their minds as sources of strength
and enjoyment. They were happy,--happy in what they had done and in what they were doing,--entering
cheerfully upon the serene evening of lives consecrated to duty, with children around them
to love them as they had loved their father and mother, and that father still with them to
tell them that they had never deceived him.

A FIELD NIGHT IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

To an intelligent American visiting London for the first time, few places of interest will
present stronger attractions than the House of Commons during an animated debate. Commencing
its existence with the first crude ideas of popular liberty in England, steadily advancing
in influence and importance with the increasing wealth and intelligence of the middling class,
until it came to hold the purse and successfully defend the rights of the people, illustrated
for many generations by the eloquence and the statesmanship of the kingdom, and to-day wielding
the power and directing the destinies of the foremost nation in the world, it is not strange
that an American, speaking the same language, and proud of the same ancestry, should visit
with the deepest interest the scene of so many and so important transactions. Especially will
this be the case, if by experience or observation he has become familiar with the course of
proceedings in our own legislative assemblies. For, although the English House of Commons is
the parent of all similar deliberative bodies in the civilized world, yet its rules and regulations
are in many respects essentially unique.

Assuming that many of my readers have never enjoyed the opportunity of "sitting out a debate"
in Parliament, I have ventured to hope that a description of some of the distinctive features
which are peculiar to the House of Commons, and a sketch of some of its prominent members,
might not be unwelcome.

In 1840 the corner-stone of the New Palace of Westminster was laid, and at the commencement
of the session of 1852 the first official occupation of the House of Commons took place. The
House of Peers was first used in 1847. It is not consistent with the object of this article
to speak of the dimensions and general appearance of this magnificent structure. It is sufficient
to say, that in its architectural design, in its interior decorations, and in its perfect adaptation
to the purposes for which it was erected, it is alike creditable to the public spirit of the
nation, and to the improved condition of the fine and useful arts in the present century.

The entrance to the House of Commons is through Westminster Hall. What wealth of historical
recollections is suggested by this name! As, however, we are dealing with the present, we dare
not even touch upon so fruitful a theme, but must hasten through the grand old hall, remarking
only in passing that it is supposed to have been originally built in 1097, and was rebuilt
by Richard II. in 1398. With a single exception,--the Hall of Justice in Padua,--it is the
largest apartment unsupported by pillars in the world. Reluctantly leaving this historical
ground, we enter St. Stephen's Hall. This room, rich in architectural ornaments and most graceful
in its proportions, is still further adorned with statues of "men who rose to eminence by the
eloquence and abilities they displayed in the House of Commons." Who will dispute their claims
to this distinction? The names selected for such honorable immortality are Selden, Hampden,
Falkland, Lord Clarendon, Lord Somers, Sir Robert Walpole, Lord Chatham, Lord Mansfield, Burke,
Fox, Pitt, and Grattan.

We have now reached the Great Central Hall, out of which open two corridors, one of which leads
to the lobby of the House of Lords. Passing through the other, we find ourselves in the lobby
of the House of Commons. Here we must pause and look about us. We are in a large apartment
brilliantly lighted and richly decorated. As we stand with our backs to the Great Central Hall,
the passage-way to the right conducts to the library and refreshment rooms, that on the left
is the private entrance of the members through the old cloisters, of Stephen's, that in front
is the main entrance to the floor of the House. In the corner on our right is a small table,
garnished with all the materials for a cold lunch for the use of those members who have no
time for a more substantial meal in the dining-room. Stimulants of various kinds are not wanting;
but the habits of Englishmen and the presence of vigilant policemen prevent any abuse of this
privilege. The refreshments thus provided are open to all, and in this qualified sense I may
say that I have lunched with Disraeli, Lord John Russell, and Lord Palmerston.

But the hour has nearly come for opening the debate; members are rapidly arriving and taking
their seats, and we shall do well to decide upon the best mode of gaining admission to the
House. There are a few benches on the floor reserved, as of right, for peers and their sons,
and, by courtesy, for gentlemen introduced by them. I may be pardoned for presuming that this
high privilege is beyond our reach. Our only alternative, then, is the galleries. These are,
the Speaker's Gallery, on the south side of the House, and directly opposite the Speaker's
chair, affording room for between twenty and thirty, and the Strangers' Gallery, behind this,
with seats for about sixty. Visitors have only these limited accommodations. The arrangement
deprives members of all temptation to "speak to the galleries," and is consistent with the
English theory, that all debates in the House should be strictly of a business character. And
as to anything like applause on the part of the spectators, what punishment known to any criminal
code among civilized nations would be too severe for such an offence?

The American Minister (and of course every representative of a foreign power) has the right
to give two cards of admission, entitling the bearer of each to a seat in the Speaker's Gallery.
But these cards admit only on a specified evening, and if not used then, are worthless. If
you have called on our distinguished representative at the Court of St. James, you have probably
discovered that his list is full for the next fortnight at least, and, although the Secretary
of Legation politely asks your name, and promises you the earliest opportunity, you retire
with a natural feeling of disappointment. Many Americans, having only a few days to spend in
London, leave the city without making any further effort to visit the House of Commons. It
would certainly have been well to forward, in advance of your arrival in London, a written
application to the Minister; but as this has not been done, what remains? Ask your banker for
a note of introduction to some member of the House, and, armed with this epistle, make your
appearance in the lobby. Give the note, with your card, to that grave, clerical-looking man
in a little box on the left of the main entrance, and patiently await the approach of the "honorable
gentleman." If the Speaker's Gallery is not full, he will have no difficulty in procuring for
you the desired admission; and if at leisure, he will undoubtedly spend a few moments in pointing
out the distinguished men who may chance to be in attendance. Be sure and carry an opera-glass.
Without this precaution, you will not be able to study to your satisfaction the faces of the
members, for the House is by no means brilliantly illuminated. If for any reason this last
expedient does not succeed, must we despair for this evening? We are on the ground, and our
engagements may not leave another so good opportunity. I have alluded to the presence of policemen
in the lobby. Do I dream, or has it been whispered to me, that half a crown, opportunely and
adroitly invested, may be of substantial advantage to the waiting stranger? But by all means
insist on the Speaker's Gallery. The Strangers' Gallery is less desirable for many reasons,
and, being open to everybody who has a member's order, is almost invariably crowded. At all
events, it should be reserved as a dernier resort. As an illustration of the kindly feeling
towards Americans, I may mention, parenthetically, that I have known gentlemen admitted to
the Speaker's Gallery on their simple statement to the door-keeper that they were from the
United States. On one of these occasions, the official, a civil personage, but usually grave
to the verge of solemnity,--the very last man you would have selected as capable of waggery,--assumed
a comical counterfeit of terror, and said,--"Bless me! we must be obliging to Americans, or
who knows what may come of it?"

It should be observed, however, that on a "field night" not one of the modes of admission which
I have described will be of any service. Nothing will avail you then but a place on the Speaker's
list, and even in that case you must be promptly at your post, for "First come first served"
is the rule.

But we have lingered long enough in the Lobby. Let us take our places in the Speaker's Gallery,--for
the essayist has hardly less power than, according to Sydney Smith, has the novelist, and a
few strokes of the pen shall show you what many have in vain longed to see.

Once there, our attention is instantly attracted by observing that almost every member, who
is not speaking, wears his hat. This, although customary, is not compulsory. Parliamentary
etiquette only insists that a member while speaking, or moving from place to place, shall be
uncovered. The gallery opposite the one in which we are seated is for the use of the reporters.
That ornamental brass trellis in the rear of the reporters, half concealing a party of ladies,
is a curious compromise between what is due to traditional Parliamentary regulations and the
courtesy to which the fair sex is entitled. This relaxation of the old rules dates only from
the erection of the new building.

The perfect order which prevails among members is another marked feature during the debates.
The bewigged and berobed Speaker, seated in his imposing high-backed chair, seems rather to
be retained in his place out of due deference to time-honored custom than because a presiding
officer is necessary to preserve proper decorum. To be sure, demonstrations of applause at
a good bit, or of discontent with a prosy speaker, are common, but anything approaching disorder
is of rare occurrence.

The adherence to forms and precedents is not a little amusing. Take, for example, a "division,"
which corresponds to a call for the Ayes and Noes with us. To select an instance at random,--there
happens this evening to be a good deal of excitement about some documents which it is alleged
the Ministry dare not produce; so the minority, who oppose the bill under debate, make a great
show of demanding the papers, and, not being gratified, move to adjourn the debate, with the
design of postponing the passage of the obnoxious measure.

"I move that the debate be adjourned."

"Who seconds?"

"I do."

"Those in the affirmative," etc., etc.

Feeble "Aye."

Most emphatic "No."

"The noes have it."

"No!" "No!"

"Aye!" "Aye!"

"Divide!" "Divide!" in a perfect Babel of orderly confusion.

(Speaker, very solemnly and decidedly,)--

"Strangers must withdraw!"

Is the gallery immediately cleared? Not a bit of it. Every man retains his place. Some even
seem, to my fancy, to look a sort of grim defiance at the Speaker, as a bold Briton should.
It is simply a form, which many years ago had some meaning, and, having once been used, cannot
be discontinued without putting the Constitution in jeopardy. Five times this evening, the
minority, intent on postponing the debate, call for a division,--and as many times are strangers
gravely admonished to withdraw.

There are two modes of adjourning the House,--by vote of the members, and by want of a quorum.
The method of procedure in the latter case is somewhat peculiar, and has, of course, the sanction
of many generations. Suppose that a dull debate on an unimportant measure, numerous dinner-parties,
a fashionable opera, and other causes, have combined to reduce the number of members in attendance
to a dozen. It certainly is not difficult to decide at a glance that a quorum (forty) is not
present, and I presume you are every instant expecting, in your innocence, to hear, "Mr. Speaker,
I move," etc. Pause a moment, my impatient friend, too long accustomed to the reckless haste
of our Republican assemblies. Do not, even in thought, tamper with the Constitution. "The wisdom
of our ancestors" has bequeathed another and undoubtedly a better mode of arriving at the same
result. Some member quietly intimates to the Speaker that forty members are not present. That
dignified official then rises, and, using his cocked hat as an index or pointer, deliberately
counts the members. Discovering, as the apparent result of careful examination, that there
really is no quorum, he declares the House adjourned and sits down; whereupon the Sergeant-at-Arms
seizes the mace, shoulders it, and marches out, followed by the Speaker. Then, and not until
then, is the ceremony complete and the House duly adjourned.

This respect for traditional usage admits of almost endless illustration. One more example
must suffice. When the Speaker discovers symptoms of disorder in the House, he rises in his
place and says with all suitable solemnity, "Unless Honorable Members preserve order, I shall
name names!" and quiet is instantly restored. What mysterious and appalling consequences would
result from persistent disobedience, nobody in or out of the House has ever known, or probably
ever will know,--at any rate, no Speaker in Parliamentary annals has been compelled to adopt
the dreaded alternative. Shall I be thought wanting in patriotism, if I venture to doubt whether
so simple an expedient would reduce to submission an insubordinate House of Representatives
at Washington?

Like everything else thoroughly English, speaking in the House of Commons is eminently practical.
"The bias of the nation," says Mr. Emerson, "is a passion for utility." Conceive of a company
of gentlemen agreeing to devote, gratuitously, a certain portion of each year to the consideration
of any questions which may concern the public welfare, and you have the theory and the practice
of the House of Commons. Of course there are exceptions to this general statement. There are
not wanting constituencies represented by unfit men; but such members are not allowed to consume
the time which belongs of right to men of capacity and tried ability. The test is sternly,
almost despotically applied. A fair trial is given to a new member. If he is "up to his work,"
his name goes on the list of men whom the House will hear. If, however, his maiden speech is
a failure, "farewell, a long farewell" to all his political aspirations. Few men have risen
from such a fall. Now and then, as in the well-known instances of Sheridan, Disraeli, and some
less prominent names, real genius, aided by dogged determination, has forced its way upward
in spite of early ill-success; but such cases are very rare. The rule may work occasional injustice,
but is it after all so very unreasonable? "Talking," they contend, "must be done by those who
have something to say."

Everything one sees in the House partakes of this practical tendency. There are no conveniences
for writing. A member who should attempt to read a manuscript speech would never get beyond
the first sentence. Nor does anybody ever dream of writing out his address and committing it
to memory. In fact, nothing can be more informal than their manner in debate. You see a member
rising with his hat in one hand, and his gloves and cane in the other. It is as if he had just
said to his neighbor, "I have taken a good deal of interest in the subject under discussion,
and have been at some pains to understand it. I am inclined to tell the House what I think
of it." So you find him on the floor, or "on his legs," in parliamentary phrase, carrying this
intention into effect in a simple, business-like, straightforward way. But if our friend is
very long, or threatens to be tedious, I fear that unequivocal and increasing indications of
discontent will oblige him to resume his seat in undignified haste.

Perhaps no feature of the debates in the House of Commons deserves more honorable mention than
the high-toned courtesy which regulates the intercourse of members.

Englishmen have never been charged with a want of spirit; on the contrary, they are proverbially
"plucky," and yet the House is never disgraced by those shameful brawls which have given to
our legislative assemblies, state and national, so unenviable a reputation throughout the civilized
world. How does this happen? To Englishmen it does not seem a very difficult matter to manage.
If one member charges another with ungentlemanly or criminal conduct, he must follow up his
charge and prove it,--in which case the culprit is no longer recognized as a gentleman; or
if he fails to make good his accusation, and neglects to atone for his offence by ample and
satisfactory apologies, he is promptly "sent to Coventry" as a convicted calumniator. No matter
how high his social position may have been, whether nobleman or commoner, he shall not escape
the disgrace he has deserved. And to forfeit one's standing among English gentlemen is a punishment
hardly less severe than to lose caste in India. In such a community, what need of duels to
vindicate wounded honor or establish a reputation for courage?

The members of the present House of Commons were elected in the spring of 1859. Among their
number are several men who, in point of capacity, eloquence, and political experience, will
compare not unfavorably with the ablest statesmen whom England has known for generations. I
have thought that some description of their appearance and mental characteristics might not
be unacceptable to American readers. As the best mode of accomplishing this object, I shall
select an occasion, which, from the importance of the question under discussion, the deep interest
which it awakened, and the ability with which it was treated, certainly presented as favorable
an opportunity as could ever occur to form a correct opinion of the best speaking talent in
the kingdom. The debate to which I allude took place early in the month of July, 1860.

My name being fortunately on the first list for the Speaker's Gallery, I had no difficulty
in taking my place the moment the door was open. It will be readily believed that every seat
was soon filled. In front of the Speaker's Gallery is a single row of seats designed for foreign
ambassadors and peers. The first man to enter it was Mr. Dallas, and he was presently followed
by other members of the diplomatic corps, and several distinguished noblemen.

It was very interesting to an American that almost the first business of the evening concerned
his own country. Some member of the House asked Lord John Russell, then Secretary for Foreign
Affairs, if he had received any recent despatches from the United States relating to the San
Juan difficulty. It will be remembered, or would be, but for the rapid march of more momentous
events, that only a short time before, news had reached England that General Harney, violating
the explicit instructions of General Scott, so wisely and opportunely issued, had claimed for
the United States exclusive jurisdiction over the island of San Juan. Lord John replied by
stating what had been the highly honorable and judicious policy of General Scott, and the unwarrantable
steps subsequently taken by General Harney,--that Lord Lyons had communicated information of
the conduct of General Harney to President Buchanan, who had recalled that officer, and had
forwarded instructions to his successor to continue in the course marked out by General Scott.
This gratifying announcement was greeted in the House with hearty cheers,--a spontaneous demonstration
of delight, which proved not only that the position of affairs on this question was thought
to be serious, but also the genuine desire of Englishmen to remain in amicable relations with
the United States.

To this brief business succeeded the great debate of the session. Let me endeavor, at the risk
of being tedious, to explain the exact question before the House. Mr. Gladstone, in his speech
on the Budget, had pledged the Ministry to a considerable reduction of the taxes for the coming
year. In fulfilment of this pledge, it had been decided to remit the duty on paper, thereby
abandoning about £1,500,000 of revenue. A bill to carry this plan into effect passed to its
second reading by a majority of fifty-three. To defeat the measure the Opposition devoted all
its energies, and with such success that the bill passed to its third reading by the greatly
reduced majority of nine. Emboldened by this almost victory, the Conservatives determined to
give the measure its coup de grâce in the House of Lords. The Opposition leaders, Lord Derby,
Lord Lyndhurst, Lord Ellenborough, and others, attacked the bill, and the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, its acknowledged author, with as much bitterness and severity as are ever considered
compatible with the dignified decorum of that aristocratic body; all the Conservative forces
were rallied, and, what with the votes actually given and the proxies, the Opposition majority
was immense.

Now all this was very easily and very quickly done. The Conservatives were exultant, and even
seemed sanguine enough to believe that the Ministry had received a fatal blow. But they forgot,
in the first flush of victory, that they were treading on dangerous ground,--that they were
meddling with what had been regarded for centuries as the exclusive privilege of the House
of Commons. English Parliamentary history teaches no clearer lesson than that the right to
pass "Money Bills," without interference from the House of Lords, has been claimed and exercised
by the House of Commons for several generations. The public was not slow to take the alarm.
To be sure, several causes conspired to lessen somewhat the popular indignation. Among these
were the inevitable expenses of the Chinese War, the certainty of an increased income tax,
if the bill became a law, and the very small majority which the measure finally received in
the House of Commons.

Nevertheless, the public mind was deeply moved. The perils of such a precedent were evident
enough to any thinking man. Although the unwearied exertions of Bright, Roebuck, and other
leading Radicals, could not arouse the people to that state of unreasoning excitement in which
these demagogues delight, yet the tone of the press and the spirit of the public meetings gave
proof that the importance of the crisis was not wholly underrated. These meetings were frequent
and largely attended; inflammatory speeches were made, strong resolutions passed, and many
petitions numerously signed, protesting against the recent conduct of the Lords, were presented
to the popular branch of Parliament.

In the House of Commons the action was prompt and decided. A committee was immediately appointed
to search for precedents, and ascertain if such a proceeding was justified by Parliamentary
history. The result of this investigation was anxiously awaited both by the Commons and the
nation. To the disappointment of everybody, the committee, after patient and protracted research,
submitted a report, giving no opinion whatever on the question, but merely reciting all the
precedents that bore on the subject.

It must be confessed that the condition of affairs was not a little critical. Both the strength
of the Ministry and the dignity of the House of Commons were involved in the final decision.
But, unfortunately, the Ministerial party was far from being a unit on the question. Bright
and the "Manchester School" demanded an uncompromising and defiant attitude towards the Lords.
Lord Palmerston was for asserting the rights and privileges of the Commons, but for avoiding
a collision. Where Mr. Gladstone would be found could not be precisely predicted; but he was
understood to be deeply chagrined at the defeat of his favorite measure, and to look upon the
action of the Peers as almost a personal insult. Lord John Russell was supposed to occupy a
position somewhere between the Premier and the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If the leaders
were thus divided in opinion, there was no less diversity of views among their followers. Some
did not at all appreciate the nature or magnitude of the question, a few sympathized with the
Conservatives, and very many were satisfied that a mistake had been made in sacrificing so
large a source of revenue at a time when the immediate prospect of war with China and the condition
of the national defences rendered it important to increase, rather than diminish the available
funds in the treasury. The Opposition, of course, were ready to take advantage of any weak
points in the position of their adversaries, and were even hoping that the Ministerial dissensions
might lead to a Ministerial defeat.

It was under these circumstances that Lord Palmerston rose to define the position of the Ministry,
to vindicate the honor and dignity of the Commons, to avert a collision with the House of Lords,
and, in general, to extricate the councils of the nation from an embarrassing and dangerous
dilemma.

A word about the personnel of the Premier, and a glance at some of his political antecedents.
His Lordship has been for so many years in public life, and a marked man among English statesmen,
that, either by engraving, photograph, or personal observation, his face is familiar to many
Americans. And, certainly, there is nothing in his features or in the expression of his countenance
to indicate genius or even ability. He is simply a burly Englishman, of middling height, with
an air of constant good-humor and a very pleasant understanding with himself. Perhaps the first
thing about him which impresses an American, accustomed at home to dyspeptic politicians and
statesmen prematurely old, is his physical activity. Fancy a man of seventy-six, who has been
in most incessant political life for more than fifty years, sitting out a debate of ten hours
without flinching, and then walking to his house in Piccadilly, not less than two miles. And
his body is not more active than his mind. He does something more than sit out a debate. Not
a word escapes him when a prominent man is on his legs. Do not be deceived by his lazy attitude,
or his sleepy expression. Not a man in the House has his wits more thoroughly about him. Ever
ready to extricate his colleagues from an awkward difficulty, to evade a dangerous question,--making,
with an air of transparent candor, a reply in which nothing is answered,--to disarm an angry
opponent with a few conciliatory or complimentary words, or to demolish him with a little good-humored
raillery which sets the House in a roar; equally skilful in attack and retreat: such, in a
word, is the bearing of this gay and gallant veteran, from the beginning to the end of each
debate, during the entire session of Parliament. He seems absolutely insensible to fatigue.
"I happened," said a member of the House, writing to a friend, last summer, "to follow Lord
Palmerston, as he left the cloak-room, the other morning, after a late sitting, and, as I was
going his way, I thought I might as well see how he got over the ground. At first he seemed
a little stiff in the legs; but when he warmed to his work he began to pull out, and before
he got a third of the way he bowled along splendidly, so that he put me to it to keep him in
view. Perhaps in a few hours after that long sitting and that walk home, and the brief sleep
that followed, the Premier might have been seen standing bolt upright at one end of a great
table in Cambridge House, receiving a deputation from the country, listening with patient and
courteous attention to some tedious spokesman, or astonishing his hearers by his knowledge
of their affairs and his intimacy with their trade or business." On a previous night, I had
seen Lord Palmerston in his seat in the House from 4 P.M. until about 2 A.M., during a dull
debate, and was considerably amused when he rose at that late or early hour, and "begged to
suggest to honorable gentlemen," that, although he was perfectly willing to sit there until
daylight, yet he thought something was due to the Speaker, (a hale, hearty man, sixteen years
his junior,) and as there was to be a session at noon of that day, he hoped the debate would
be adjourned. The same suggestion had been fruitlessly made half a dozen times before; but
the Premier's manner was irresistible, and amid great laughter the motion prevailed. The Speaker,
with a grateful smile to the member for Tiverton, immediately and gladly retired, but the indefatigable
leader remained at his post an hour longer, while the House was sitting in Committee on Supplies.

But his Parliamentary duties by no means fill up the measure of his public labors. Deputations
representing all sorts of interests wait on him almost daily, his presence is indispensable
at all Cabinet consultations, and as Prime Minister he gives tone and direction to the domestic
and foreign policy of the English government. How much is implied in these duties and responsibilities
must be apparent to all who speak the English language.

Now what is the secret of this vigorous old age, after a life spent in such arduous avocations?
Simply this, that a constitution robust by nature has been preserved in its strength by regular
habits and out-door exercise. If I were to repeat the stories I have heard, and seen stated
in English newspapers, of the feats, pedestrian and equestrian, performed by Lord Palmerston
from early manhood down to the present writing, I fear I should be suspected by some of my
readers of offering an insult to their understanding. I must therefore content myself with
saying that very few young men of our day and country could follow him in the field or keep
up with him on the road.

A word about Lord Palmerston's political antecedents. Beginning as Junior Lord of the Admiralty
in the Duke of Portland's Ministry, in 1808, he has since been once Secretary of War, five
times Prime Minister, and once Secretary of State. From 1811 to 1831 he represented Cambridge
University. Since 1835 he has represented Tiverton. It may be safely asserted that no man now
living in England has been so long or so prominently in public office, and probably no man
presents a more correct type of the Liberal, although not Radical, sentiment of England.

It may be well to state that on this evening there was an unusually large attendance of members.
Not only were all the benches on the floor of the House filled, but the rare spectacle was
presented of members occupying seats in the east and west galleries. These unfortunates belonged
to that class who are seldom seen in their places, but who are sometimes whipped in by zealous
partisans, when important questions are under consideration, and a close vote may be expected.
Their listless faces and sprawling attitudes proved clearly enough that they were reluctant
and bored spectators of the scene. It deserves to be mentioned, also, that, although there
are six hundred and fifty-six actual members of the House, the final vote on the question showed,
that, even on that eventful night, only four hundred and sixty-two were present. The average
attendance is about three hundred.

At half-past four, the Premier rose to address the House. He had already given due notice that
he should introduce three resolutions, which, considering the importance of the subject, I
make no apology for giving in full.

"1.

"2.

"3.

The burden of the speech by which the Premier supported these resolutions was this. The assent
of both Houses is necessary to a bill, and each branch possesses the power of rejection. But
in regard to certain bills, to wit, Money Bills, the House claims, as its peculiar and exclusive
privilege, the right of originating, altering, or amending them. As the Lords have, however,
the right and power of assenting, they have also the right and power of rejecting. He admitted
that they had frequently exercised this right of rejection. Yet it must be observed, that,
when they had done so, it had been in the case of bills involving taxes of small amount, or
connected with questions of commercial protection. No case had ever occurred precisely like
this, where a bill providing for the repeal of a tax of large amount, and on the face of it
unmixed with any other question, had been rejected by the Lords.

"But, in point of fact," he continued, "was there not another question involved? Was it not
clear, that, the bill having passed by a majority greatly reduced since its second reading,
the Lords may have thought that it would be well to give the Commons further time to reflect?
Indeed, was there not abundant reason to believe that the Lords were not really initiating
a new and dangerous policy, that of claiming to be partners with the House in originating and
disposing of Money Bills? Therefore, would it not be sufficient for the House firmly to assert
its rights, and to intimate the jealous care with which it intended to guard against their
infringement?"

Of course, this brief and imperfect abstract of an hour's speech can do no sort of justice
to its merits. It is much easier to describe its effect upon the House. From the moment when
the Premier uttered his opening sentence, "I rise upon an occasion which will undoubtedly rank
as one of the first in importance among those which have occurred in regard to our Parliamentary
proceedings," he commanded the closest attention of the House. And yet he was neither eloquent,
impressive, nor even earnest. There was not the slightest attempt at declamation. His voice
rarely rose above a conversational tone, and his gestures were not so numerous or so decided
as are usual in animated dialogue. His air and manner were rather those of a plain, well-informed
man of business, not unaccustomed to public speaking, who had some views on the subject under
discussion which he desired to present, and asked the ear of the House for a short hour while
he defined his position.

No one who did not appreciate the man and the occasion would have dreamed that he was confronting
a crisis which might lead to a change in the Ministry, and might array the two Houses of Parliament
in angry hostility against each other. But here lay the consummate skill of the Premier. He
was playing a most difficult role, and he played it to perfection. He could not rely on the
support of the Radicals. He must therefore make amends for their possible defection by drawing
largely on the Conservative strength. The great danger was, that, while conciliating the Conservatives
by a show of concession, he should alienate his own party by seeming to concede too much. Now,
that the effect which he aimed to produce excluded all declamation, all attempt at eloquence,
anything like flights of oratory or striking figures of rhetoric, nobody understood better
than Lord Palmerston.

In view of all these circumstances, the adroitness, the ability, the sagacity, and the success
of his speech were most wonderful. Gladstone was more philosophical, statesmanlike, and eloquent;
Whiteside more impassioned and vehement; Disraeli more witty, sarcastic, and telling; but Lord
Palmerston displayed more of those qualities without which no one can be a successful leader
of the House of Commons. The result was, that two of the resolutions passed without a division,
and the third was carried by an immense majority. The Prime Minister had understood the temper
of the House, and had shaped his course accordingly. As we have seen, he succeeded to a marvel.
But was it such a triumph as a great and far-reaching statesman would have desired? And this
brings us to the other side of the picture.

Dexterous, facile, adroit, politic, versatile,--as Lord Palmerston certainly is,--fertile in
resources, prompt to seize and use to the utmost every advantage, endowed with unusual popular
gifts, and blessed with imperturbable good-humor, it cannot be denied that in many of the best
and noblest attributes of a statesman he is sadly deficient. His fondness for political power
and his anxiety to achieve immediate success inevitably lead him to resort to temporary and
often unworthy expedients. A manly reliance on general principles, and a firm faith in the
ultimate triumph of right and justice, constitute no part of his character. He lives only in
the present. That he is making history seems never to occur to him. He does not aspire to direct,
but only aims to follow, or at best to keep pace with public opinion. What course he will pursue
on a given question can never be safely predicted, until you ascertain, as correctly as he
can, what is the prevailing temper of the House or the nation. That he will try to "make things
pleasant," to conciliate the Opposition without weakening the strength of his own party, you
may be sure; but for, any further clue to his policy you must consult the press, study the
spirit of Parliament, and hear the voice of the people. I know no better illustration to prove
the justice of this view of the Premier's political failing than his bearing in the debate
which I am attempting to describe. Here was a grave constitutional question. The issue was
a simple and clear one. Had the Lords the right to reject a Money Bill which had passed the
House? If historical precedents settled the question clearly, then there was no difficulty
in determining the matter at once, and almost without discussion. If, however, there were no
precedents bearing precisely on this case, then it was all the more important that this should
be made the occasion of a settlement of the question so unequivocal and positive as effectually
to guard against future complication and embarrassment. Now how did the Premier deal with this
issue? He disregarded the homely wisdom contained in the pithy bull of Sir Boyle Roche, that
"the best way to avoid a dilemma is to meet it plump." He dodged the dilemma. His resolutions,
worded with ingenious obscurity, skilfully evaded the important aspect of the controversy,
and two of them, the second and third, gave equal consolation to the Liberals and the Conservatives.
So that, in fact, it is reserved for some future Parliament, in which it cannot be doubted
that the Radical element will be more numerous and more powerful, to determine what should
have been decided on this very evening. It was cleverly done, certainly, and extorted from
all parties and members of every shade of political opinion that admiration which the successful
performance of a difficult and critical task must always elicit. But was it statesmanlike,
or in any high sense patriotic or manly?

The Premier was followed by R.P. Collier, representing Plymouth. He had been on the committee
to search for precedents, and he devoted an hour to showing that there was not, in all Parliamentary
history, a single precedent justifying the action of the Lords. His argument was clear and
convincing, and the result of it was, that no bill simply imposing or remitting a tax had ever
in a single instance been rejected by the Upper House. In all the thirty-six cases relied on
by the Opposition there was always some other principle involved, which furnished plausible
justification for the course adopted by the Lords.

To this speech I observed that Mr. Gladstone paid strict attention, occasionally indicating
his assent by an approving nod, or by an encouraging "Hear! Hear!" It is rare, indeed, that
any speaker in the House secures the marked attention or catches the eye of the Chancellor
of the Exchequer.

To Collier succeeded Coningham, member for Brighton. Now as this honorable member was prosy
and commonplace, not to say stupid, I should not detain my readers with any allusion to his
speech, but as illustrating a prominent and very creditable feature of the debates in the House.
That time is of some value, and that no remarks can be tolerated, unless they are intelligent
and pertinent, are cardinal doctrines of debate, and are quite rigidly enforced. At the same
time mere dulness is often overlooked, as soon as it appears that the speaker has something
to say which deserves to be heard. But there is one species of oratory which is never tolerated
for a moment, and that is the sort of declamation which is designed merely or mainly for home-consumption,--speaking
for Buncombe, as we call it. The instant, therefore, that it was evident that Mr. Coningham
was addressing, not the House of Commons, but his constituents at Brighton, he was interrupted
by derisive cheers and contemptuous groans. Again and again did the indignant orator attempt
to make his voice heard above the confusion, but in vain; and when, losing all presence of
mind, he made the fatal admission,--"I can tell Honorable Gentlemen that I have just returned
from visiting my constituents, and I can assure the House that more intelligent"--the tumult
became so great, that the remainder of the sentence was entirely lost. Seeing his mistake,
Mr. Coningham changed his ground. "I appeal to the courtesy of Honorable Members; I do not
often trespass upon the House; I implore them to give me a patient and candid hearing." This
appeal to the love of "fair play," so characteristic of Englishmen, produced immediately the
desired effect, and the member concluded without further interruption.

Mr. Edwin James was the next prominent speaker. He has won a wide reputation as a barrister,
chiefly in the management of desperate criminal cases, culminating in his defence of Dr. Barnard,
charged with being accessory to the attempted assassination of Louis Napoleon. The idol of
the populace, he was elected by a large majority in May, 1859, as an extreme Liberal or Radical,
to represent Marylebone in the present Parliament. His warmest admirers will hardly contend
that since his election he has done anything to distinguish himself, or even to sustain the
reputation which his success as an advocate had earned for him. The expensive vices to which
he has long been addicted have left him bankrupt in character and fortune. His large professional
income has been for some years received by trustees, who have made him a liberal allowance
for his personal expenses, and have applied the remainder toward the payment of his debts.
His recent disgraceful flight from England, and the prompt action of his legal brethren in
view of his conduct, render it highly improbable that he will ever return to the scene of his
former triumphs and excesses. Besides its brevity, which was commendable, his speech this evening
presented no point worthy of comment.

Since the opening remarks of Lord Palmerston, five Radicals had addressed the House. Without
exception they had denounced the action of the Lords, and more than one had savagely attacked
the Opposition for supporting the proceedings of the Upper House. They had contended that the
Commons were becoming contemptible in the eyes of the nation by their failure to take a manly
position in defence of their rights. To a man, they had assailed the resolutions of the Premier
as falling far short of the dignity of the occasion and the importance of the crisis, or, at
best, as intentionally ambiguous. Thus far then the Radicals. The Opposition had listened to
them in unbroken and often contemptuous silence, enjoying the difference of opinion in the
Ministerial party, but reserving themselves for some foeman worthy of their steel. Nor was
there, beyond a vague rumor, any clue to the real position of the Cabinet on the whole question.
Only one member had spoken for the Government, and it was more than suspected that he did not
quite correctly represent the views of the Ministry.

If any one of my readers had been in the Speaker's Gallery on that evening, his attention would
have been arrested by a member on the Ministerial benches, a little to the right of Lord Palmerston.
His face is the most striking in the House,--grave, thoughtful, almost stern, but lighting
up with wonderful beauty when he smiles. Usually, his air is rather abstracted,--not, indeed,
the manner of one whose thoughts are wandering from the business under debate, but rather of
one who is thinking deeply upon what is passing around him. His attitude is not graceful: lolling
at full length, his head resting on the back of the seat, and his legs stretched out before
him. He is always neatly, but never carefully dressed, and his bearing is unmistakably that
of a scholar. Once or twice since we have been watching him, he has scratched a few hasty memoranda
on the back of an envelope, and now, amid the silence of general expectation, the full, clear
tones of his voice are heard. He has not spoken five minutes before members who have taken
advantage of the dulness of recent debaters to dine, or to fortify themselves in a less formal
way for the night's work before them, begin to flock to their seats. Not an eye wanders from
the speaker, and the attention which he commands is of the kind paid in the House only to merit
and ability of the highest order. And, certainly, the orator is not unworthy of this silent,
but most respectful tribute to his talents. His manner is earnest and animated, his enunciation
is beautifully clear and distinct, the tones of his voice are singularly pleasing and persuasive,
stealing their way into the hearts of men, and charming them into assent to his propositions.
One can easily understand why he is called the "golden-tongued."

This is Mr. Gladstone, Chancellor of the Exchequer, by right of eloquence, statesmanship, and
scholarly attainments, the foremost man in England. I cannot hope to give a satisfactory description
of his speech, nor of its effect upon the House. His eloquence is of that quality to which
no sketch, however accurate, can do justice. Read any one of his speeches, as reported with
astonishing correctness in the London "Times," and you will appreciate the clear, philosophical
statement of political truth,--the dignified, elevated, statesmanlike tone,--the rare felicity
of expression,--the rhetorical beauty of style, never usurping the place of argument, though
often concealing the sharp angles of his relentless logic,--the marvellous ease with which
he makes the dry details of finance not only instructive, but positively fascinating,--his
adroitness in retrieving a mistake, or his sagacity in abandoning, in season, an indefensible
position,--the lofty and indignant scorn with which he sometimes condescends to annihilate
an insolent adversary, or the royal courtesy of his occasional compliments. But who shall be
able to describe those attributes of his eloquence which address themselves only to the ear
and eye: that clear, resonant voice, never sinking into an inaudible whisper, and never rising
into an ear-piercing scream, its tones always exactly adapted to the spirit of the words,--that
spare form, wasted by the severe study of many years, which but a moment before was stretched
in languid ease on the Treasury benches, now dilated with emotion,--that careworn countenance
inspired with great thoughts: what pen or pencil can do justice to these?

If any one of that waiting audience has been impatiently expectant of some words equal to this
crisis, some fearless and manly statement of the real question at issue, his wish shall be
soon and most fully gratified. Listen to his opening sentence, which contains the key-note
to his whole speech:--"It appears to be the determination of one moiety of this House that
there shall be no debate upon the constitutional principles which are involved in this question;
and I must say, that, considering that gentlemen opposite are upon this occasion the partisans
of a gigantic innovation,--the most gigantic and the most dangerous that has been attempted
in modern times,--I may compliment them upon the prudence they show in resolving to be its
silent partisans." After this emphatic exordium, which electrified the House, and was followed
by such a tempest of applause as for some time to drown the voice of the speaker, he proceeded
at once to demonstrate the utter folly and error of contending that the action of the Lords
was supported or justified by any precedent. Of course, as a member of the Cabinet, he gave
his adhesion to the resolutions before the House, and indorsed the speech of the Premier. But,
from first to last, he treated the question as its importance demanded, as critical and emergent,
not to be passed by in silence, nor yet to be encountered with plausible and conciliatory expedients.
He reserved to himself "entire freedom to adopt any mode which might have the slightest hope
of success, for vindicating by action the rights of the House."

In fact, he alone of all the speakers of the evening rose to "the height of the great argument."
He alone seemed to feel that the temporary success of this or that party or faction was as
nothing compared with the duty of settling definitely and for all posterity this conflict of
rights between the two Houses. Surveying the question from this high vantage-ground, what wonder
that in dignity and grandeur he towered above his fellows? Here was a great mind grappling
with a great subject,--a mind above temporary expedients for present success, superior to the
fear of possible defeat. To denounce the Conservatives for not attacking the Ministerial resolutions
may have been indiscreet. He may have been guilty of an apparent breach of Parliamentary etiquette,
when he practically condemned the passive policy of the Cabinet, of which he was himself a
leading member. But may we not pardon the natural irritation produced by the defeat of his
favorite measure, in view of the noble and patriotic sentiments of his closing sentences?

"I regard the whole rights of the House of Commons, as they have been handed down to us, as
constituting a sacred inheritance, upon which I, for my part, will never voluntarily permit
any intrusion or plunder to be made. I think that the very first of our duties, anterior to
the duty of dealing with any legislative measure, and higher and more sacred than any such
duties, high and sacred though they may be, is to maintain intact that precious deposit."

The effect of this speech was indescribable. The applause with which he was frequently interrupted,
and which greeted him as he took his seat, was such as I have never heard in a deliberative
assembly. And not the least striking feature of this display of enthusiasm was that it mainly
proceeded from the extreme Liberal wing of the Ministerial party, with which Mr. Gladstone,
representing that most conservative of all English constituencies, Oxford University, had hitherto
been by no means popular. For several days the rumor was rife that the Chancellor of the Exchequer
would resign his place in the Cabinet, and be the leader of the Radicals! But Mr. Gladstone
had other views of his duty, and probably he was never more firmly intrenched in the confidence
of the nation, and more influential in the councils of the Government, than he is at this moment.

Mr. Gladstone had hardly taken his seat, when the long and significant silence of the Opposition
was broken by Mr. Whiteside. This gentleman represents Dublin University, has been Attorney-General
and Solicitor-General for Ireland, and was one of the most able and eloquent defenders of O'Connell
and his friends in 1842. He is said to be the only Irishman in public life who holds the traditions
of the great Irish orators,--the Grattans, the Currans, and the Sheridans. I will not detain
my readers with even a brief sketch of his speech. It was very severe upon Mr. Gladstone, very
funny at the expense of the Radicals, and very complimentary to Lord Palmerston. As a whole,
it was an admirable specimen of Irish oratory. In the élan with which the speaker leaped to
his feet and dashed at once into his subject, full of spirit and eager for the fray, in his
fierce and vehement invective and the occasional ferocity of his attacks, in the fluency and
fitness of his language and the rapidity of his utterance, in the unstudied grace and sustained
energy of his manner, it was easy to recognize the elements of that irresistible eloquence
by which so many of his gifted countrymen have achieved such brilliant triumphs at the forum
and in the halls of the debate.

It might perhaps heighten the effect of the picture, if I were to describe the appearance of
Mr. Gladstone during the delivery of this fierce Philippic,--the contracted brow, the compressed
lip, the uneasy motion from side to side, and all the other customary manifestations of anger,
mortification, and conscious defeat. But if my sketch be dull, it shall at least have the homely
merit of being truthful. In point of fact, the whole harangue was lost upon Mr. Gladstone;
for he left the House immediately after making his own speech, and did not return until some
time after Mr. Whiteside had finished. In all probability he did not know how unmercifully
he had been handled until he read his "Times" the next morning.

Six more speeches on the Liberal side, loud in praise of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, bitter
in denunciation of the Conservatives, and by no means sparing the policy of the Prime Minister,
followed in quick succession. They were all brief, pertinent, and spirited; with which comprehensive
criticism I must dismiss them. Their delivery occupied about two hours, and many members availed
themselves of this opportunity to leave the House for a while. Some sauntered on the broad
stone terrace which lines the Thames. Not a few regaled themselves with the popular Parliamentary
beverage,--sherry and soda-water; and others, who had resolutely kept their seats since the
opening of the debate, rewarded their devotion to the interests of the public by a more elaborate
repast. Now and then a member in full evening dress would lounge into the House, with that
air of perfect self-satisfaction which tells of a good dinner by no means conducted on total-abstinence
principles.

It was midnight when Mr. Disraeli rose to address the House. For years the pencil of "Punch"
has seemed to take particular delight in sketching for the public amusement the features of
this well-known novelist, orator, and statesman. After making due allowance for the conceded
license of caricature, we must admit that the likeness is in the main correct, and any one
familiar with the pages of "Punch" would recognize him at a glance. The impression which he
leaves on one who studies his features and watches his bearing is not agreeable. Tall, thin,
and quite erect, always dressed with scrupulous care, distant and reserved in manner, his eye
dull, his lips wearing habitually a half-scornful, half-contemptuous expression, one can readily
believe him to be a man addicted to bitter enmities, but incapable of warm friendships.

He had been sitting, as his manner is, very quietly during the evening, never moving a muscle
of his face, save when he smiled coldly once or twice at the sharp sallies of Whiteside, or
spoke, as he did very rarely, to some member near him. A stranger to his manner would have
supposed him utterly indifferent to what was going on about him. Yet it is probable that no
member of the House was more thoroughly absorbed in the debate or watched its progress with
deeper interest. Excepting his political ambition, Mr. Disraeli is actuated by no stronger
passion than hatred of Mr. Gladstone. To have been a warm admirer and protégé of Sir Robert
Peel would have laid a sufficient foundation for intense personal dislike. But Mr. Disraeli
has other and greater grievances to complain of. This is not the place to enter at large into
the history of the political rivalry between these eminent men. Enough to say, that in the
spring of 1852 Mr. Disraeli realized the dream of his lifelong ambition by being appointed
Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the Ministry of Lord Derby. Late in the same year he brought
forward his Budget, which he defended at great length and with all his ability. This Budget,
and the arguments by which it was supported, Mr. Gladstone--who had already refused to take
the place in the Derby Cabinet--attacked in a speech of extraordinary power, demolishing one
by one the positions of his opponent, rebuking with dignified severity the license of his language,
and calling upon the House to condemn the man and his measures. Such was the effect of this
speech that the Government was defeated by a decided majority. Thus dethroned, Mr. Disraeli
had the additional mortification of seeing his victorious opponent seated in his vacant chair.
For, in the Ministry of Lord Aberdeen, which immediately succeeded, Mr. Gladstone accepted
the appointment of Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Budget brought forward by the new Minister
took by surprise even those who had already formed the highest estimate of his capacity; and
the speech in which he defended and enforced it received the approval of Lord John Russell,
in the well-known and well-merited compliment, that "it contained the ablest expositions of
the true principles of finance ever delivered by an English statesman." Since that memorable
defeat, Disraeli has lost no opportunity of attacking the member for Oxford University. To
weaken his wonderful ascendency over the House has seemed to be the wish nearest his heart,
and the signal failure which has thus far attended all his efforts only gives a keener edge
to his sarcasm and increases the bitterness of his spirit. That persistent and inflexible determination
which, from a fashionable novelist, has raised him to the dignity of leader of the Conservative
party in the House of Commons, that unsparing and cold-blooded malignity which poisoned the
last days of Sir Robert Peel, and those powers of wit and ridicule which make him so formidable
an adversary, have all been impressed into this service.

His speech this evening was only a further illustration of his controlling desire to enjoy
an ample and adequate revenge for past defeats; and, undoubtedly, Mr. Disraeli displayed a
great deal of a certain kind of power. He was witty, pungent, caustic, full of telling hits
which repeatedly convulsed the House with laughter, and he showed singular dexterity in discovering
and assailing the weak points in his adversary's argument. Still, it was a painful exhibition,
bad in temper, tone, and manner. It was too plainly the attempt of an unscrupulous partisan
to damage a personal enemy, rather than the effort of a statesman to enlighten and convince
the House and the nation. It was unfair, uncandid, and logically weak. Its only possible effect
was to irritate the Liberals, without materially strengthening the position of the Conservatives.
When "Dizzy" had finished, the floor was claimed by Lord John Russell and Mr. Bright. It was
sufficiently evident that members, without distinction of party, desired to hear the last-named
gentleman, for cries of "Bright," "Bright," came from all parts of the House. The member for
Birmingham is stout, bluff, and hearty, looking very much like a prosperous, well-dressed English
yeoman. He is acknowledged to be the best declaimer in the House. Piquant, racy, and entertaining,
he is always listened to with interest and pleasure; but somehow he labors under the prevalent
suspicion of being insincere, and beyond a small circle of devoted admirers has no influence
whatever in Parliament.

To the manifest discontent of the House, the Speaker decided that the Honorable Secretary for
Foreign Affairs was entitled to the floor. Lord John Russell deserves a more extended historical
and personal notice than the legitimate limits of this article will allow. But, as his recent
elevation to the peerage has led the English press to give a review of his political antecedents,
and as these articles have been copied quite generally into our own leading newspapers, it
may be fairly presumed that most of my readers are familiar with the prominent incidents in
his long and honorable public career. As a speaker he is decidedly prosy, with a hesitating
utterance, a monotonous voice, and an uninteresting manner. Yet he is always heard with respectful
attention by the House, in consideration of his valuable public services, his intrinsic good
sense, and his unselfish patriotism. On the question at issue, he took ground midway between
Lord Palmerston and Mr. Gladstone.

It was now about two, A.M. Since the commencement of the debate eighteen members had addressed
the House. At this point a motion prevailed to adjourn until noon of the same day.

On the reopening of the debate at that hour, Mr. Bright and a few other members gave their
views upon the resolutions of the Premier, and the final vote was then taken with the result
already indicated.

A LEGEND OF THE LAKE.

  Should you go to Centre-Harbor,
    As haply you some time may,
  Sailing up the Winnipisauke,
    From the hills of Alton Bay,--

  Into the heart of the highlands,
    Into the north-wind free,
  Through the rising and vanishing islands,
    Over the mountain sea,--

  To the little hamlet lying
    White in its mountain-fold,
  Asleep by the lake, and dreaming
    A dream that is never told,--

  And in the Red Hill's shadow
    Your pilgrim home you make,
  Where the chambers open to sunrise,
    The mountains and the lake,--

  If the pleasant picture wearies,
    As the fairest sometimes will,
  And the weight of the hills lies on you,
    And the water is all too still,--

  If in vain the peaks of Gunstock
    Redden with sunrise fire,
  And the sky and the purple mountains
    And the sunset islands tire,--

  If you turn from the in-door thrumming
    And clatter of bowls without,
  And the folly that goes on its travels
    Bearing the city about,--

  And the cares you left behind you
    Come hunting along your track,
  As Blue-Cap in German fable
    Rode on the traveller's pack,--

  Let me tell you a tender story
    Of one who is now no more,
  A tale to haunt like a spirit
    The Winnipisauke shore,--

  Of one who was brave and gentle,
    And strong for manly strife,
  Riding with cheering and music
    Into the tourney of life.

  Faltering and falling midway
    In the Tempter's subtle snare,
  The chains of an evil habit
    He bowed himself to bear.

  Over his fresh, young manhood
    The bestial veil was flung,--
  The curse of the wine of Circe,
    The spell her weavers sung.

  Yearly did hill- and lake-side
    Their summer idyls frame;
  Alone in his darkened dwelling,
    He hid his face for shame.

  The music of life's great marches
    Sounded for him in vain;
  The voices of human duty
    Smote on his ear like pain.

  In vain over island and water
    The curtains of sunset swung;
  In vain on the beautiful mountains
    The pictures of God were hung.

  The wretched years crept onward,
    Each sadder than the last;
  All the bloom of life fell from him,
    All the freshness and greenness passed.

  But deep in his heart forever
    And unprofaned he kept
  The love of his saintly Mother,
    Who in the grave-yard slept.

  His house had no pleasant pictures;
    Its comfortless walls were bare;
  But the riches of earth and ocean
    Could not purchase his Mother's Chair,--

  The old chair, quaintly carven,
    With oaken arms outspread,
  Whereby, in the long gone twilights,
    His childish prayers were said.

  For thence, in his lone night-watches,
    By moon or starlight dim,
  A face full of love and pity
    And tenderness looked on him.
  And oft, as the grieving presence
    Sat in his mother's chair,
  The groan of his self-upbraiding
    Grew into wordless prayer.

  At last, in the moonless midnight,
    The summoning angel came,
  Severe in his pity, touching
    The house with fingers of flame.

  The red light flashed from its windows
    And flared from its sinking roof;
  And baffled and awed before it,
    The villagers stood aloof.

  They shrank from the falling rafters,
    They turned from the furnace-glare;
  But its tenant cried, "God help me!
    I must save my mother's chair."

  Under the blazing portal,
    Over the floor of fire,
  He seemed, in the terrible splendor,
    A martyr on his pyre!

  In his face the mad flames smote him
    And stung him on either side;
  But he clung to the sacred relic,--
    By his mother's chair he died!

  O mother, with human yearnings!
    O saint, by the altar-stairs!
  Shall not the dear God give thee
    The child of thy many prayers?

  O Christ! by whom the loving,
    Though erring, are forgiven,
  Hast Thou for him no refuge,
    No quiet place in heaven?

  Give palms to Thy strong martyrs,
    And crown Thy saints with gold,
  But let the mother welcome
    Her lost one to Thy fold!

AGNES OF SORRENTO.

CHAPTER XVI.

ELSIE PUSHES HER SCHEME.

The good Father Antonio returned from his conference with the cavalier with many subjects for
grave pondering. This man, as he conjectured, so far from being an enemy either of Church or
State, was in fact in many respects in the same position with his revered master,--as nearly
so as the position of a layman was likely to resemble that of an ecclesiastic. His denial of
the Visible Church, as represented by the Pope and Cardinals, sprang not from an irreverent,
but from a reverent spirit. To accept them as exponents of Christ and Christianity was to blaspheme
and traduce both, and therefore he only could be counted in the highest degree Christian who
stood most completely opposed to them in spirit and practice.

His kind and fatherly heart was interested in the brave young nobleman. He sympathized fully
with the situation in which he stood, and he even wished success to his love; but then how
was he to help him with Agnes, and above all with her old grandmother, without entering on
the awful task of condemning and exposing that sacred authority which all the Church had so
many years been taught to regard as infallibly inspired? Long had all the truly spiritual members
of the Church who gave ear to the teachings of Savonarola felt that the nearer they followed
Christ the more open was their growing antagonism to the Pope and the Cardinals; but still
they hung back from the responsibility of inviting the people to an open revolt.

Father Antonio felt his soul deeply stirred with the news of the excommunication of his saintly
master; and he marvelled, as he tossed on his restless bed through the night, how he was to
meet the storm. He might have known, had he been able to look into a crowded assembly in Florence
about this time, when the unterrified monk thus met the news of his excommunication:--

"There have come decrees from Rome, have there? They call me a son of perdition. Well, thus
may you answer:--He to whom you give this name hath neither favorites nor concubines, but gives
himself solely to preaching Christ. His spiritual sons and daughters, those who listen to his
doctrine, do not pass their time in infamous practices. They confess, they receive the communion,
they live honestly. This man gives himself up to exalt the Church of Christ: you to destroy
it. The time approaches for opening the secret chamber: we will give but one turn of the key,
and there will come out thence such an infection, such a stench of this city of Rome, that
the odor shall spread through all Christendom, and all the world shall be sickened."

But Father Antonio was of himself wholly unable to come to such a courageous result, though
capable of following to the death the master who should do it for him. His was the true artist
nature, as unfit to deal with rough human forces as a bird that flies through the air is unfitted
to a hand-to-hand grapple with the armed forces of the lower world. There is strength in these
artist natures. Curious computations have been made of the immense muscular power that is brought
into exercise when a swallow skims so smoothly through the blue sky; but the strength is of
a kind unadapted to mundane uses, and needs the ether for its display. Father Antonio could
create the beautiful; he could warm, could elevate, could comfort; and when a stronger nature
went before him, he could follow with an unquestioning tenderness of devotion: but he wanted
the sharp, downright power of mind that could cut and cleave its way through the rubbish of
the past, when its institutions, instead of a commodious dwelling, had come to be a loathsome
prison. Besides, the true artist has ever an enchanted island of his own; and when this world
perplexes and wearies him, he can sail far away and lay his soul down to rest, as Cytherea
bore the sleeping Ascanius far from the din of battle, to sleep on flowers and breathe the
odor of a hundred undying altars to Beauty.

Therefore, after a restless night, the good monk arose in the first purple of the dawn, and
instinctively betook him to a review of his drawings for the shrine, as a refuge from troubled
thought. He took his sketch of the Madonna and Child into the morning twilight and began meditating
thereon, while the clouds that lined the horizon were glowing rosy purple and violet with the
approaching day.

"See there!" he said to himself, "yonder clouds have exactly the rosy purple of the cyclamen
which my little Agnes loves so much;--yes, I am resolved that this cloud on which our Mother
standeth shall be of a cyclamen color. And there is that star, like as it looked yesterday
evening, when I mused upon it. Methought I could see our Lady's clear brow, and the radiance
of her face, and I prayed that some little power might be given to show forth that which transports
me."

  "Virgo singularis,
  Inter omnes mitis,
  Nos culpis solutos
  Mites fac et castos!
  Blessed gate of Heaven,
  Take our heart's devotion!

  Virgin one and only,
  Meekest 'mid them all,
  From our sins set free,
  Make us pure like thee,
  Freed from passion's thrall!

  Grant that in pure living,
  Through safe paths below,
  Forever seeing Jesus,
  Rejoicing we may go!
]

As the monk sang, Agnes soon appeared at the door.

"Ah, my little bird, you are there!" he said, looking up.

"Yes," said Agnes, coming forward, and looking over his shoulder at his work.

"Did you find that young sculptor?" she asked.

"That I did,--a brave boy, too, who will row down the coast and dig us marble from an old heathen
temple, which we will baptize into the name of Christ and his Mother."

"Pietro was always a good boy," said Agnes.

"Stay," said the monk, stepping into his little sleeping-room; "he sent you this lily; see,
I have kept it in water all night."

"Poor Pietro, that was good of him!" said Agnes. "I would thank him, if I could. But, uncle,"
she added, in a hesitating voice, "did you see anything of that--other one?"

"That I did, child,--and talked long with him."

"Ah, uncle, is there any hope for him?"

"Yes, there is hope,--great hope. In fact, he has promised to receive me again, and I have
hopes of leading him to the sacrament of confession, and after that"----

"And then the Pope will forgive him!" said Agnes, joyfully.

The face of the monk suddenly fell; he was silent, and went on retouching his drawing.

"Do you not think he will?" said Agnes, earnestly. "You said the Church was ever ready to receive
the repentant."

"The True Church will receive him," said the monk, evasively; "yes, my little one, there is
no doubt of it."

"And it is not true that he is captain of a band of robbers in the mountains?" said Agnes.
"May I tell Father Francesco that it is not so?"

"Child, this young man hath suffered a grievous wrong and injustice; for he is lord of an ancient
and noble estate, out of which he hath been driven by the cruel injustice of a most wicked
and abominable man, the Duke di Valentinos,[B] who hath caused the death of his brothers and
sisters, and ravaged the country around with fire and sword, so that he hath been driven with
his retainers to a fortress in the mountains."

[Footnote B: Caesar Borgia was created Duc de Valentinois by Louis XII. of France.]

"But," said Agnes, with flushed cheeks, "why does not our blessed Father excommunicate this
wicked duke? Surely this knight hath erred; instead of taking refuge in the mountains, he ought
to have fled with his followers to Rome, where the dear Father of the Church hath a house for
all the oppressed. It must be so lovely to be the father of all men, and to take in and comfort
all those who are distressed and sorrowful, and to right the wrongs of all that are oppressed,
as our dear Father at Rome doth!"

The monk looked up at Agnes's clear glowing face with a sort of wondering pity.

"Dear little child," he said, "there is a Jerusalem above which is mother of us all, and these
things are done there.

  'Coelestis urbs Jerusalem,
  Beata pacis visio,
  Quae celsa de viventibus
  Saxis ad astra tolleris,
  Sponsaeque ritu cingeris
  Mille angelorum millibus!'"

The face of the monk glowed as he repeated this ancient hymn of the Church,[C] as if the remembrance
of that general assembly and church of the first-born gave him comfort in his depression.

[Footnote C: This very ancient hymn is the fountainhead from which through various languages
have trickled the various hymns of the Celestial City, such as--

"Jerusalem, my happy home!"

and Quarles's--

"O mother dear, Jerusalem!"]

Agnes felt perplexed, and looked earnestly at her uncle as he stooped over his drawing, and
saw that there were deep lines of anxiety on his usually clear, placid face,--a look as of
one who struggles mentally with some untold trouble.

"Uncle," she said, hesitatingly, "may I tell Father Francesco what you have been telling me
of this young man?"

"No, my little one,--it were not best. In fact, dear child, there be many things in his case
impossible to explain, even to you;--but he is not so altogether hopeless as you thought; in
truth, I have great hopes of him. I have admonished him to come here no more, but I shall see
him again this evening."

Agnes wondered at the heaviness of her own little heart, as her kind old uncle spoke of his
coming there no more. Awhile ago she dreaded his visits as a most fearful temptation, and thought
perhaps he might come at any hour; now she was sure he would not, and it was astonishing what
a weight fell upon her.

"Why am I not thankful?" she asked herself. "Why am I not joyful? Why should I wish to see
him again, when I should only be tempted to sinful thoughts, and when my dear uncle, who can
do so much for him, has his soul in charge? And what is this which is so strange in his case?
There is some mystery, after all,--something, perhaps, which I ought not to wish to know. Ah,
how little can we know of this great wicked world, and of the reasons which our superiors give
for their conduct! It is ours humbly to obey, without a question or a doubt. Holy Mother, may
I not sin through a vain curiosity or self-will! May I ever say, as thou didst, 'Behold the
handmaid of the Lord! be it unto me according to His word!'"

And Agnes went about her morning devotions with fervent zeal, and did not see the monk as he
dropped the pencil, and, covering his face with his robe, seemed to wrestle in some agony of
prayer.

"Shepherd of Israel," he said, "why hast Thou forgotten this vine of Thy planting? Dogs have
encompassed Thy beloved; the assembly of the violent have surrounded him.

"Now, really, brother," said Elsie, coming towards him, and interrupting his meditations in
her bustling, business way, yet speaking in a low tone that Agnes should not hear,--"I want
you to help me with this child in a good common-sense fashion: none of your high-flying notions
about saints and angels, but a little good common talk for every-day people that have their
bread and salt to look after. The fact is, brother, this girl must be married. I went last
night to talk with Antonio's mother, and the way is all open as well as any living girl could
desire. Antonio is a trifle slow, and the high-flying hussies call him stupid; but his mother
says a better son never breathed, and he is as obedient to all her orders now as when he was
three years old. And she has laid up plenty of household stuff for him, and good hard gold
pieces to boot: she let me count them myself, and I showed her that which I had scraped together,
and she counted it, and we agreed that the children that come of such a marriage would come
into the world with something to stand on. Now Agnes is fond of you, brother, and perhaps it
would be well for you to broach the subject. The fact is, when I begin to talk, she gets her
arms round my old neck and falls to weeping and kissing me at such a rate as makes a fool of
me. If the child would only be rebellious, one could do something; but this love takes all
the stiffness out of one's joints; and she tells me she never wants a husband, and she will
be content to live with me all her life. The saints know it isn't for my happiness to put her
out of my old arms; but I can't last forever,--my old back grows weaker every year; and Antonio
has strong arms to defend her from all these roystering fellows who fear neither God nor man,
and swoop up young maids as kites do chickens. And then he is as gentle and manageable as a
this-year ox; Agnes can lead him by the horn,--she will be a perfect queen over him; for he
has been brought up to mind the women."

"Well, sister," said the monk, "hath our little maid any acquaintance with this man? Have they
ever spoken together?"

"Not much. I have never brought them to a very close acquaintance; and that is what is to be
done. Antonio is not much of a talker; to tell the truth, he does not know as much to say as
our Agnes: but the man's place is not to say fine things, but to do the hard work that shall
support the household."

"Then Agnes hath not even seen him?"

"Yes, at different times I have bid her regard him, and said to her, 'There goes a proper man
and a good Christian,--a man who minds his work and is obedient to his old mother: such a man
will make a right good husband for some girl some day.'"

"And did you ever see that her eye followed him with pleasure?"

"No, neither him nor any other man, for my little Agnes hath no thought of that kind; but,
once married, she will like him fast enough. All I want is to have you begin the subject, and
get it into her head a little."

Father Antonio was puzzled how to meet this direct urgency of his sister. He could not explain
to her his own private reasons for believing that any such attempt would be utterly vain, and
only bring needless distress on his little favorite. He therefore answered,--

"My good sister, all such thoughts lie so far out of the sphere of us monks, that you could
not choose a worse person for such an errand. I have never had any communings with the child
than touching the beautiful things of my art, and concerning hymns and prayers and the lovely
world of saints and angels, where they neither marry nor are given in marriage; and so I should
only spoil your enterprise, if I should put my unskilful hand to it."

"At any rate," said Elsie, "don't you approve of my plan?"

"I should approve of anything that would make our dear little one safe and happy, but I would
not force the matter against her inclinations. You will always regret it, if you make so good
a child shed one needless tear. After all, sister, what need of haste? 'Tis a young bird yet.
Why push it out of the nest? When once it is gone, you will never get it back. Let the pretty
one have her little day to play and sing and be happy. Does she not make this garden a sort
of Paradise with her little ways and her sweet words? Now, my sister, these all belong to you;
but, once she is given to another, there is no saying what may come. One thing only may you
count on with certainty: that these dear days, when she is all day by your side and sleeps
in your bosom all night, are over,--she will belong to you no more, but to a strange man who
hath neither toiled nor wrought for her, and all her pretty ways and dutiful thoughts must
be for him."

"I know it, I know it," said Elsie, with a sudden wrench of that jealous love which is ever
natural to strong, passionate natures. "I'm sure it isn't for my own sake I urge this. I grudge
him the girl. After all, he is but a stupid head. What has he ever done, that such good-fortune
should befall him? He ought to fall down and kiss the dust of my shoes for such a gift, and
I doubt me much if he will ever think to do it. These men think nothing too good for them.
I believe, if one of the crowned saints in heaven were offered them to wife, they would think
it all quite natural, and not a whit less than their requirings."

"Well, then, sister," said the monk, soothingly, "why press this matter? why hurry? The poor
little child is young; let her frisk like a lamb, and dance like a butterfly, and sing her
hymns every day like a bright bird. Surely the Apostle saith, 'He that giveth his maid in marriage
doeth well, but he that giveth her not doeth better.'"

"But I have opened the subject already to old Meta," said Elsie; "and if I don't pursue it,
she will take it into her head that her son is lightly regarded, and then her back will be
up, and one may lose the chance; and on the whole, considering the money and the fellow, I
don't know a safer way to settle the girl."

"Well, sister, as I have remarked," said the monk, "I could not order my speech to propose
anything of this kind to a young maid; I should so bungle that I might spoil all. You must
even propose it yourself."

"I would not have undertaken it," said Elsie, "had I not been frightened by that hook-nosed
old kite of a cavalier that has been sailing and perching round. We are two lone women here,
and the times are unsettled, and one never knows, that hath so fair a prize, but she may be
carried off, and then no redress from any quarter."

"You might lodge her in the convent," said the monk.

"Yes, and then, the first thing I should know, they would have got her away from me entirely.
I have been well pleased to have her much with the sisters hitherto, because it kept her from
hearing the foolish talk of girls and gallants,--and such a flower would have had every wasp
and bee buzzing round it. But now the time is coming to marry her, I much doubt these nuns.
There's old Jocunda is a sensible woman, who knew something of the world before she went there,--but
the Mother Theresa knows no more than a baby; and they would take her in, and make her as white
and as thin as that moon yonder now the sun has risen; and little good should I have of her,
for I have no vocation for the convent,--it would kill me in a week. No,--she has seen enough
of the convent for the present. I will even take the risk of watching her myself. Little has
this gallant seen of her, though he has tried hard enough! But to-day I may venture to take
her down with me."

Father Antonio felt a little conscience-smitten in listening to these triumphant assertions
of old Elsie; for he knew that she would pour all her vials of wrath on his head, did she know,
that, owing to his absence from his little charge, the dreaded invader had managed to have
two interviews with her grandchild, on the very spot that Elsie deemed the fortress of security;
but he wisely kept his own counsel, believing in the eternal value of silence. In truth, the
gentle monk lived so much in the unreal and celestial world of Beauty, that he was by no means
a skilful guide for the passes of common life. Love, other than that ethereal kind which aspires
towards Paradise, was a stranger to his thoughts, and he constantly erred in attributing to
other people natures and purposes as unworldly and spiritual as his own. Thus had he fallen,
in his utter simplicity, into the attitude of a go-between protecting the advances of a young
lover with the shadow of his monk's gown, and he became awkwardly conscious, that, if Elsie
should find out the whole truth, there would be no possibility of convincing her that what
had been done in such sacred simplicity on all sides was not the basest manoeuvring.

Elsie took Agnes down with her to the old stand in the gateway of the town. On their way, as
had probably been arranged, Antonio met them. We may have introduced him to the reader before,
who likely enough has forgotten by this time our portraiture; so we shall say again, that the
man was past thirty, tall, straight, well-made, even to the tapering of his well-formed limbs,
as are the generality of the peasantry of that favored region. His teeth were white as sea-pearl;
his cheek, though swarthy, had a deep, healthy flash; and his great velvet black eyes looked
straight out from under their long silky lashes, just as do the eyes of the beautiful oxen
of his country, with a languid, changeless tranquillity, betokening a good digestion, and a
well-fed, kindly animal nature. He was evidently a creature that had been nourished on sweet
juices and developed in fair pastures, under genial influences of sun and weather,--one that
would draw patiently in harness, if required, without troubling his handsome head how he came
there, and, his labor being done, would stretch his healthy body to rumination, and rest with
serene, even unreflecting quietude.

He had been duly lectured by his mother, this morning, on the propriety of commencing his wooing,
and was coming towards them with a bouquet in his hand.

"See there," said Elsie,--"there is our young neighbor Antonio coming towards us. There is
a youth whom I am willing you should speak to,--none of your ruffling gallants, but steady
as an ox at his work, and as kind at the crib. Happy will the girl be that gets him for a husband!"

Agnes was somewhat troubled and saddened this morning, and absorbed in cares quite new to her
life before; but her nature was ever kindly and social, and it had been laid under so many
restrictions by her grandmother's close method of bringing up, that it was always ready to
rebound in favor of anybody to whom she allowed her to show kindness. So, when the young man
stopped and shyly reached forth to her a knot of scarlet poppies intermingled with bright vetches
and wild blue larkspurs, she took it graciously, and, frankly beaming a smile into his face,
said,--

"Thank you, my good Antonio!" Then fastening them in the front of her bodice,--"There, they
are beautiful!" she said, looking up with the simple satisfaction of a child.

"They are not half so beautiful as you are," said the young peasant; "everybody likes you."

"You are very kind, I am sure," said Agnes. "I like everybody, as far as grandmamma thinks
it best."

"I am glad of that," said Antonio, "because then I hope you will like me."

"Oh, yes, certainly, I do; grandmamma says you are very good, and I like all good people."

"Well, then, pretty Agnes," said the young man, "let me carry your basket."

"Oh, you don't need to; it does not tire me."

"But I should like to do something for you," insisted the young man, blushing deeply.

"Well, you may, then," said Agnes, who began to wonder at the length of time her grandmother
allowed this conversation to go on without interrupting it, as she generally had done when
a young man was in the case. Quite to her astonishment, her venerable relative, instead of
sticking as close to her as her shadow, was walking forward very fast without looking behind.

"Now, Holy Mother," said that excellent matron, "do help this young man to bring this affair
out straight, and give an old woman, who has had a world of troubles, a little peace in her
old age!"

Agnes found herself, therefore, quite unusually situated, alone in the company of a handsome
young man, and apparently with the consent of her grandmother. Some girls might have felt emotions
of embarrassment, or even alarm, at this new situation; but the sacred loneliness and seclusion
in which Agnes had been educated had given her a confiding fearlessness, such as voyagers have
found in the birds of bright foreign islands which have never been invaded by man. She looked
up at Antonio with a pleased, admiring smile,--much such as she would have given, if a great
handsome stag, or other sylvan companion, had stepped from the forest and looked a friendship
at her through his large liquid eyes. She seemed, in an innocent, frank way, to like to have
him walking by her, and thought him very good to carry her basket,--though, as she told him,
he need not do it, it did not tire her in the least.

"Nor does it tire me, pretty Agnes," said he, with an embarrassed laugh. "See what a great
fellow I am,--how strong! Look,--I can bend an iron bar in my hands! I am as strong as an ox,--and
I should like always to use my strength for you."

"Should you? How very kind of you! It is very Christian to use one's strength for others, like
the good Saint Christopher."

"But I would use my strength for you because--I love you, gentle Agnes!"

"That is right, too," replied Agnes. "We must all love one another, my good Antonio."

"You must know what I mean," said the young man. "I mean that I want to marry you."

"I am sorry for that, Antonio," replied Agnes, gravely; "because I do not want to marry you.
I am never going to marry anybody."

"Ah, girls always talk so, my mother told me; but nobody ever heard of a girl that did not
want a husband; that is impossible," said Antonio, with simplicity.

"I believe girls generally do, Antonio; but I do not: my desire is to go to the convent."

"To the convent, pretty Agnes? Of all things, what should you want to go to the convent for?
You never had any trouble. You are young, and handsome, and healthy, and almost any of the
fellows would think himself fortunate to get you."

"I would go there to live for God and pray for souls," said Agnes.

"But your grandmother will never let you; she means you shall marry me. I heard her and my
mother talking about it last night; and my mother bade me come on, for she said it was all
settled."

"I never heard anything of it," said Agnes, now for the first time feeling troubled. "But,
my good Antonio, if you really do like me and wish me well, you will not want to distress me?"

"Certainly not."

"Well, it will distress me very, very much, if you persist in wanting to marry me, and if you
say any more on the subject."

"Is that really so?" said Antonio, fixing his great velvet eyes with an honest stare on Agnes.

"Yes, it is so, Antonio; you may rely upon it."

"But look here, Agnes, are you quite sure? Mother says girls do not always know their mind."

"But I know mine, Antonio. Now you really will distress and trouble me very much, if you say
anything more of this sort."

"I declare, I am sorry for it," said the young man. "Look ye, Agnes,--I did not care half as
much about it this morning as I do now. Mother has been saying this great while that I must
have a wife, that she was getting old; and this morning she told me to speak to you. I thought
you would be all ready,--indeed I did."

"My good Antonio, there are a great many very handsome girls who would be glad, I suppose,
to marry you. I believe other girls do not feel as I do. Giulietta used to laugh and tell me so."

"That Giulietta was a splendid girl," said Antonio. "She used to make great eyes at me, and
try to make me play the fool; but my mother would not hear of her. Now she has gone off with
a fellow to the mountains."

"Giulietta gone?"

"Yes, haven't you heard of it? She's gone with one of the fellows of that dashing young robber-captain
that has been round our town so much lately. All the girls are wild after these mountain fellows.
A good, honest boy like me, that hammers away at his trade, they think nothing of; whereas
one of these fellows with a feather in his cap has only to twinkle his finger at them, and
they are off like a bird."

The blood rose in Agnes's cheeks at this very unconscious remark; but she walked along for
some time with a countenance of grave reflection.

They had now gained the street of the city, where old Elsie stood at a little distance waiting
for them.

"Well, Agnes," said Antonio, "so you really are in earnest?"

"Certainly I am."

"Well, then, let us be good friends, at any rate," said the young man.

"Oh, to be sure, I will," said Agnes, smiling with all the brightness her lovely face was capable
of. "You are a kind, good man, and I like you very much. I will always remember you kindly."

"Well, good-bye, then," said Antonio, offering his hand.

"Good-bye," said Agnes, cheerfully giving hers.

Elsie, beholding the cordiality of this parting, comforted herself that all was right, and
ruffled all her feathers with the satisfied pride of a matron whose family plans are succeeding.

"After all," she said to herself, "brother was right,--best let young folks settle these matters
themselves. Now see the advantage of such an education as I have given Agnes! Instead of being
betrothed to a good, honest, forehanded fellow, she might have been losing her poor silly heart
to some of these lords or gallants who throw away a girl as one does an orange when they have
sucked it. Who knows what mischief this cavalier might have done, if I had not been so watchful?
Now let him come prying and spying about, she will have a husband to defend her. A smith's
hammer is better than an old woman's spindle, any day."

Agnes took her seat with her usual air of thoughtful gravity, her mind seeming to be intensely
preoccupied, and her grandmother, though secretly exulting in the supposed cause, resolved
not to open the subject with her till they were at home or alone at night.

"I have my defence to make to Father Francesco, too," she said to herself, "for hurrying on
this betrothal against his advice; but one must manage a little with these priests,--the saints
forgive me! I really think sometimes, because they can't marry themselves, they would rather
see every pretty girl in a convent than with a husband. It's natural enough, too. Father Francesco
will be like the rest of the world: when he can't help a thing, he will see the will of the
Lord in it."

Thus prosperously the world seemed to go with old Elsie. Meantime, when her back was turned,
as she was kneeling over her basket, sorting out lemons, Agnes happened to look up, and there,
just under the arch of the gateway, where she had seen him the first time, sat the cavalier
on a splendid horse, with a white feather streaming backward from his black riding-hat and
dark curls.

He bowed low and kissed his hand to her, and before she knew it her eyes met his, which seemed
to flash light and sunshine all through her; and then he turned his horse and was gone through
the gate, while she, filled with self-reproach, was taking her little heart to task for the
instantaneous throb of happiness which had passed through her whole being at that sight. She
had not turned away her head, nor said a prayer, as Father Francesco told her to do, because
the whole thing had been sudden as a flash; but now it was gone, she prayed, "My God, help
me not to love him!--let me love Thee alone!" But many times in the course of the day, as she
twisted her flax, she found herself wondering whither he could be going. Had he really gone
to that enchanted cloud-land, in the old purple Apennines, whither he wanted to carry her,--gone,
perhaps, never to return? That was best. But was he reconciled with the Church? Was that great,
splendid soul that looked out of those eyes to be forever lost, or would the pious exhortations
of her uncle avail? And then she thought he had said to her, that, if she would go with him,
he would confess and take the sacrament, and be reconciled with the Church, and so his soul
be saved.

She resolved to tell this to Father Francesco. Perhaps he would----No,--she shivered as she
remembered the severe, withering look with which the holy father had spoken of him, and the
awfulness of his manner,--he would never consent. And then her grandmother----No, there was
no possibility.

Meanwhile Agnes's good old uncle sat in the orange-shaded garden, busily perfecting his sketches;
but his mind was distracted, and his thoughts wandered,--and often he rose, and, leaving his
drawings, would pace up and down the little place, absorbed in earnest prayer. The thought
of his master's position was hourly growing upon him. The real world with its hungry and angry
tide was each hour washing higher and higher up on the airy shore of the ideal, and bearing
the pearls and enchanted shells of fancy out into its salt and muddy waters.

"Oh, my master, my father!" he said, "is the martyr's crown of fire indeed waiting thee? Will
God desert His own? But was not Christ crucified?--and the disciple is not above his master,
nor the servant above his lord. But surely Florence will not consent. The whole city will make
a stand for him;--they are ready, if need be, to pluck out their eyes and give them to him.
Florence will certainly be a refuge for him. But why do I put confidence in man? In the Lord
alone have I righteousness and strength."

And the old monk raised the psalm, "Quare fremunt gentes," and his voice rose and fell through
the flowery recesses and dripping grottoes of the old gorge, sad and earnest like the protest
of the few and feeble of Christ's own against the rushing legions of the world. Yet, as he
sang, courage and holy hope came into his soul from the sacred words,--just such courage as
they afterwards brought to Luther, and to the Puritans in later times.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE MONK'S DEPARTURE.

The three inhabitants of the little dovecot were sitting in their garden after supper, enjoying
the cool freshness. The place was perfumed with the smell of orange-blossoms, brought out by
gentle showers that had fallen during the latter part of the afternoon, and all three felt
the tranquillizing effects of the sweet evening air. The monk sat bending over his drawings,
resting the frame on which they lay on the mossy garden-wall, so as to get the latest advantage
of the rich golden twilight which now twinkled through the sky. Agnes sat by him on the same
wall,--now glancing over his shoulder at his work, and now leaning thoughtfully on her elbow,
gazing pensively down into the deep shadows of the gorge, or out where the golden light of
evening streamed under the arches of the old Roman bridge, to the wide, bright sea beyond.

Old Elsie bustled about with unusual content in the lines of her keen wrinkled face. Already
her thoughts were running on household furnishing and bridal finery. She unlocked an old chest
which from its heavy quaint carvings of dark wood must have been some relic of the fortunes
of her better days, and, taking out of a little till of the same a string of fine silvery pearls,
held them up admiringly to the evening light. A splendid pair of pearl ear-rings also was produced
from the same receptacle.

She sighed at first, as she looked at these things, and then smiled with rather an air of triumph,
and, coming to where Agnes reclined on the wall, held them up playfully before her.

"See here, little one!" she said.

"Oh, what pretty things!--where did they come from?" said Agnes, innocently.

"Where did they? Sure enough! Little did you or any one else know old Elsie had things like
these! But she meant her little Agnes should hold up her head with the best. No girl in Sorrento
will have such wedding finery as this?"

"Wedding finery, grandmamma," said Agnes, faintly,--"what does that mean?"

"What does that mean, sly-boots? Ah, you know well enough! What were you and Antonio talking
about all the time this morning? Did he not ask you to marry him?"

"Yes, grandmamma; but I told him I was not going to marry. You promised me, dear grandmother,
right here, the other night, that I should not marry till I was willing; and I told Antonio
I was not willing."

"The girl says but true, sister," said the monk; "you remember you gave her your word that
she should not be married till she gave her consent willingly."

"But, Agnes, my pretty one, what can be the objection?" said old Elsie, coaxingly. "Where will
you find a better-made man, or more honest, or more kind?--and he is handsome;--and you will
have a home that all the girls will envy."

"Grandmamma, remember, you promised me,--you promised me," said Agnes, looking distressed,
and speaking earnestly.

"Well, well, child! but can't I ask a civil question, if I did? What is your objection to Antonio?"

"Only that I don't want to be married."

"Now you know, child," said Elsie, "I never will consent to your going to a convent. You might
as well put a knife through my old heart as talk to me of that. And if you don't go, you must
marry somebody; and who could be better than Antonio?"

"Oh, grandmamma, am I not a good girl? What have I done, that you are so anxious to get me
away from you?" said Agnes. "I like Antonio well enough, but I like you ten thousand times
better. Why cannot we live together just as we do now? I am strong. I can work a great deal
harder than I do. You ought to let me work more, so that you need not work so hard and tire
yourself,--let me carry the heavy basket, and dig round the trees."

"Pooh! a pretty story!" said Elsie. "We are two lone women, and the times are unsettled; there
are robbers and loose fellows about, and we want a protector."

"And is not the good Lord our protector?--has He not always kept us, grandmother?" said Agnes.

"Oh, that's well enough to say, but folks can't always get along so;--it's far better trusting
the Lord with a good strong man about,--like Antonio, for instance. I should like to see the
man that would dare be uncivil to his wife. But go your ways,--it's no use toiling away one's
life for children, who, after all, won't turn their little finger for you."

"Now, dear grandmother," said Agnes, "have I not said I would do everything for you, and work
hard for you? Ask me to do anything else in the world, grandmamma; I will do anything to make
you happy, except marry this man,--that I cannot."

"And that is the only thing I want you to do. Well, I suppose I may as well lock up these things;
I see my gifts are not cared for."

And the old soul turned and went in quite testily, leaving Agnes with a grieved heart, sitting
still by her uncle.

"Never weep, little one," said the kind old monk, when he saw the silent tears falling one
after another; "your grandmother loves you, after all, and will come out of this, if we are quiet."

"This is such a beautiful world," said Agnes, "who would think it would be such a hard one
to live in?--such battles and conflicts as people have here!"

"You say well, little heart; but great is the glory to be revealed; so let us have courage."

"Dear uncle, have you heard any ill-tidings of late?" asked Agnes. "I noticed this morning
you were cast down, and to-night you look so tired and sad."

"Yes, dear child,--heavy tidings have indeed come. My dear master at Florence is hard beset
by wicked men, and in great danger,--in danger, perhaps, of falling a martyr to his holy zeal
for the blessed Jesus and his Church."

"But cannot our holy father, the Pope, protect him? You should go to Rome directly and lay
the case before him."

"It is not always possible to be protected by the Pope," said Father Antonio, evasively. "But
I grieve much, dear child, that I can be with you no longer. I must gird up my loins and set
out for Florence, to see with my own eyes how the battle is going for my holy master."

"Ah, must I lose you, too, my dear, best friend?" said Agnes. "What shall I do?"

"Thou hast the same Lord Jesus, and the same dear Mother, when I am gone. Have faith in God,
and cease not to pray for His Church,--and for me, too."

"That I will, dear uncle! I will pray for you more than ever,--for prayer now will be all my
comfort. But," she added, with hesitation, "oh, uncle, you promised to visit him!"

"Never fear, little Agnes,--I will do that. I go to him this very night,--now, even,--for the
daylight waxes too scant for me to work longer."

"But you will come back and stay with us to-night, uncle?"

"Yes, I will,--but to-morrow morning I must be up and away with the birds; and I have labored
hard all day to finish the drawings for the lad who shall carve the shrine, that he may busy
himself thereon in my absence."

"Then you will come back?"

"Certainly, dear heart, I will come back; of that be assured. Pray God it be before long, too."

So saying, the good monk drew his cowl over his head, and, putting his portfolio of drawings
under his arm, began to wend his way towards the old town.

Agnes watched him departing, her heart in a strange flutter of eagerness and solicitude. What
were these dreadful troubles which were coming upon her good uncle?--who those enemies of the
Church that beset that saintly teacher he so much looked up to? And why was lawless violence
allowed to run such riot in Italy, as it had in the case of the unfortunate cavalier? As she
thought things over, she was burning with a repressed desire to do something herself to abate
these troubles.

"I am not a knight," she said to herself, "and I cannot fight for the good cause. I am not
a priest, and I cannot argue for it. I cannot preach and convert sinners. What, then, can I
do? I can pray. Suppose I should make a pilgrimage? Yes,--that would be a good work, and I
will. I will walk to Rome, praying at every shrine and holy place; and then, when I come to
the Holy City, whose very dust is made precious with the blood of the martyrs and saints, I
will seek the house of our dear father, the Pope, and entreat his forgiveness for this poor
soul. He will not scorn me, for he is in the place of the blessed Jesus, and the richest princess
and the poorest maiden are equal in his sight. Ah, that will be beautiful! Holy Mother," she
said, falling on her knees before the shrine, "here I vow and promise that I will go praying
to the Holy City. Smile on me and help me!"

And by the twinkle of the flickering lamp which threw its light upon the picture, Agnes thought
surely the placid face brightened to a tender maternal smile, and her enthusiastic imagination
saw in this an omen of success.

Old Elsie was moody and silent this evening,--vexed at the thwarting of her schemes. It was
the first time that the idea had ever gained a foothold in her mind, that her docile and tractable
grandchild could really have for any serious length of time a will opposed to her own, and
she found it even now difficult to believe it. Hitherto she had shaped her life as easily as
she could mould a biscuit, and it was all plain sailing before her. The force and decision
of this young will rose as suddenly upon her as the one rock in the middle of the ocean which
a voyager unexpectedly discovered by striking on it.

But Elsie by no means regarded the game as lost. She mentally went over the field, considering
here and there what was yet to be done.

The subject had fairly been broached. Agnes had listened to it, and parted in friendship from
Antonio. Now his old mother must be soothed and pacified; and Antonio must be made to persevere.

"What is a girl worth that can be won at the first asking?" quoth Elsie. "Depend upon it, she
will fall to thinking of him, and the next time she sees him she will give him a good look.
The girl never knew what it was to have a lover. No wonder she doesn't take to it at first;
there's where her bringing up comes in, so different from other girls'. Courage, Elsie! Nature
will speak in its own time."

Thus soliloquizing, she prepared to go a few steps from their dwelling, to the cottage of Meta
and Antonio, which was situated at no great distance.

"Nobody will think of coming here this time o' night," she said, "and the girl is in for a
good hour at least with her prayers, and so I think I may venture. I don't really like to leave
her, but it's not a great way, and I shall be back in a few moments. I want just to put a word
into old Meta's ear, that she may teach Antonio how to demean himself."

And so the old soul took her spinning and away she went, leaving Agnes absorbed in her devotions.

The solemn starry night looked down steadfastly on the little garden. The evening wind creeping
with gentle stir among the orange-leaves, and the falling waters of the fountain dripping their
distant, solitary way down from rock to rock through the lonely gorge, were the only sounds
that broke the stillness.

The monk was the first of the two to return; for those accustomed to the habits of elderly
cronies on a gossiping expedition of any domestic importance will not be surprised that Elsie's
few moments of projected talk lengthened imperceptibly into hours.

Agnes came forward anxiously to meet her uncle. He seemed wan and haggard, and trembling with
some recent emotion.

"What is the matter with you, dear uncle?" she asked. "Has anything happened?"

"Nothing, child, nothing. I have only been talking on painful subjects, deep perplexities,
out of which I can scarcely see my way. Would to God this night of life were past, and I could
see morning on the mountains!"

"My uncle, have you not, then, succeeded in bringing this young man to the bosom of the True
Church?"

"Child, the way is hedged up, and made almost impassable by difficulties you little wot of.
They cannot be told to you; they are enough to destroy the faith of the very elect."

Agnes's heart sank within her; and the monk, sitting down on the wall of the garden, clasped
his hands over one knee and gazed fixedly before him.

The sight of her uncle,--generally so cheerful, so elastic, so full of bright thoughts and
beautiful words,--so utterly cast down, was both a mystery and a terror to Agnes.

"Oh, my uncle," she said, "it is hard that I must not know, and that I can do nothing, when
I feel ready to die for this cause! What is one little life? Ah, if I had a thousand to give,
I could melt them all into it, like little drops of rain in the sea! Be not utterly cast down,
good uncle! Does not our dear Lord and Saviour reign in the heavens yet?"

"Sweet little nightingale!" said the monk, stretching his hand towards her. "Well did my master
say that he gained strength to his soul always by talking with Christ's little children!"

"And all the dear saints and angels, they are not dead or idle either," said Agnes, her face
kindling; "they are busy all around us. I know not what this trouble is you speak of; but let
us think what legions of bright angels and holy men and women are caring for us."

"Well said, well said, dear child! There is, thank God, a Church Triumphant,--a crowned queen,
a glorious bride; and the poor, struggling Church Militant shall rise to join her! What matter,
then, though our way lie through dungeon and chains, through fire and sword, if we may attain
to that glory at last?"

"Uncle, are there such dreadful things really before you?"

"There may be, child. I say of my master, as did the holy Apostles: 'Let us also go, that we
may die with him.' I feel a heavy presage. But I must not trouble you, child. Early in the
morning I will be up and away. I go with this youth, whose pathway lies a certain distance
along mine, and whose company I seek for his good as well as my pleasure."

"You go with him?" said Agnes, with a start of surprise.

"Yes; his refuge in the mountains lies between here and Rome, and he hath kindly offered to
bring me on my way faster than I can go on foot; and I would fain see our beautiful Florence
as soon as may be. O Florence, Florence, Lily of Italy! wilt thou let thy prophet perish?"

"But, uncle, if he die for the faith, he will be a blessed martyr. That crown is worth dying
for," said Agnes.

"You say well, little one,--you say well! 'Ex oribus parvulorum.' But one shrinks from that
in the person of a friend which one could cheerfully welcome for one's self. Oh, the blessed
cross! never is it welcome to the flesh, and yet how joyfully the spirit may walk under it!"

"Dear uncle, I have made a solemn vow before our Holy Mother this night," said Agnes, "to go
on a pilgrimage to Rome, and at every shrine and holy place to pray that these great afflictions
which beset all of you may have a happy issue."

"My sweet heart, what have you done? Have you considered the unsettled roads, the wild, unruly
men that are abroad, the robbers with which the mountains are filled?"

"These are all Christ's children and my brothers," said Agnes; "for them was the most holy
blood shed, as well as for me. They cannot harm one who prays for them."

"But, dear heart of mine, these ungodly brawlers think little of prayer; and this beautiful,
innocent little face will but move the vilest and most brutal thoughts and deeds."

"Saint Agnes still lives, dear uncle,--and He who kept her in worse trial. I shall walk through
them all pure as snow,--I am assured I shall. The star which led the wise men and stood over
the young child and his mother will lead me, too."

"But your grandmother?"

"The Lord will incline her heart to go with me. Dear uncle, it does not beseem a child to reflect
on its elders, yet I cannot but see that grandmamma loves this world and me too well for her
soul's good. This journey will be for her eternal repose."

"Well, well, dear one, I cannot now advise. Take advice of your confessor, and the blessed
Lord and his holy Mother be with you! But come now, I would soothe myself to sleep; for I have
need of good rest to-night. Let us sing together our dear master's hymn of the Cross."

And the monk and the maiden sang together:--

  "Iesù, sommo conforto,
  Tu sei tutto il mio amore
  E 'l mio beato porto,
  E santo Redentore.
    O gran bontà,
    Dolce pietà,
    Felice quel che teco unito sta!

  "Deh, quante volte offeso
  T' ha l' alma e 'l cor meschino,
  E tu sei in croce steso
  Per salvar me, tapino!

  "Iesù, fuss' io confitto
  Sopra quel duro ligno,
  Dove ti vedo afflitto,
  Iesù, Signor benigno!

  "O croce, fammi loco,
  E le mie membra prendi,
  Che del tuo dolce foco
  Il cor e l' alma accendi!

  "Infiamma il mio cor tanto
  Dell' amor tuo divino,
  Ch' io arda tutto quanto,
  Che paia un serafino!

  "La croce e 'l Crocifisso
  Sia nel mio cor scolpito,
  Ed io sia sempre affisso
  In gloria ov' egli è ito!"[D]

[Footnote D:

  Jesus, best comfort of my soul,
    Be thou my only love,
  My sacred saviour from my sins,
    My door to heaven above!
      O lofty goodness, love divine,
      Blest is the soul made one with thine!

  Alas, how oft this sordid heart
    Hath wounded thy pure eye!
  Yet for this heart upon the cross
    Thou gav'st thyself to die!

  Ah, would I were extended there,
    Upon that cold, hard tree,
  Where I have seen thee, gracious Lord,
    Breathe out thy life for me!

  Cross of my Lord, give room! give room!
    To thee my flesh be given!
  Cleansed in thy fires of love and pain,
    My soul rise pure to heaven!

  Burn in my heart, celestial flame,
    With memories of him,
  Till, from earth's dross refined, I rise
    To join the seraphim!

  Ah, vanish each unworthy trace
    Of earthly care or pride,
  Leave only, graven on my heart,
    The Cross, the Crucified!
]

As the monk sang, his soul seemed to fuse itself into the sentiment with that natural grace
peculiar to his nation. He walked up and down the little garden, apparently forgetful of Agnes
or of any earthly presence, and in the last verses stretched his hands towards heaven with
streaming tears and a fervor of utterance indescribable.

The soft and passionate tenderness of the Italian words must exhale in an English translation,
but enough may remain to show that the hymns with which Savonarola at this time sowed the mind
of Italy often mingled the Moravian quaintness and energy with the Wesleyan purity and tenderness.
One of the great means of popular reform which he proposed was the supplanting of the obscene
and licentious songs, which at that time so generally defiled the minds of the young, by religious
words and melodies. The children and young people brought up under his influence were sedulously
stored with treasures of sacred melody, as the safest companions of leisure hours, and the
surest guard against temptation.

"Come now, my little one," said the monk, after they had ceased singing, as he laid his hand
on Agnes's head. "I am strong now; I know where I stand. And you, my little one, you are one
of my master's 'Children of the Cross.' You must sing the hymns of our dear master, that I
have taught you, when I am far away. A hymn is a singing angel, and goes walking through the
earth, scattering the devils before it. Therefore he who creates hymns imitates the most excellent
and lovely works of our Lord God, who made the angels. These hymns watch our chamber-door,
they sit upon our pillow, they sing to us when we awake; and therefore our master was resolved
to sow the minds of his young people with them, as our lovely Italy is sown with the seeds
of all colored flowers. How lovely has it often been to me, as I sat at my work in Florence,
to hear the little children go by, chanting of Jesus and Mary,--and young men singing to young
maidens, not vain flatteries of their beauty, but the praises of the One only Beautiful, whose
smile sows heaven with stars like flowers! Ah, in my day I have seen blessed times in Florence!
Truly was she worthy to be called the Lily City!--for all her care seemed to be to make white
her garments to receive her Lord and Bridegroom. Yes, though she had sinned like the Magdalen,
yet she loved much, like her. She washed His feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair
of her head. Oh, my beautiful Florence, be true to thy vows, be true to thy Lord and Governor,
Jesus Christ, and all shall be well!"

"Amen, dear uncle!" said Agnes. "I will not fail to pray day and night, that thus it may be.
And now, if you must travel so far, you must go to rest. Grandmamma has gone long ago. I saw
her steal by as we were singing."

"And is there any message from my little Agnes to this young man?" asked the monk.

"Yes. Say to him that Agnes prays daily that he may be a worthy son and soldier of the Lord Jesus."

"Amen, sweet heart! Jesu and His sweet Mother bless thee!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW COUNTERBLAST

"He that taketh tobacco saith he cannot leave it, it doth bewitch him."--KING JAMES'S COUNTERBLAST
TO TOBACCO.

America is especially responsible to the whole world for tobacco, since the two are twin-sisters,
born to the globe in a day. The sailors first sent on shore by Columbus came back with news
of a new continent and a new condiment. There was solid land, and there was a novel perfume,
which rolled in clouds from the lips of the natives. The fame of the two great discoveries
instantly began to overspread the world; but the smoke travelled fastest, as is its nature.
There are many races which have not yet heard of America: there are very few which have not
yet tasted of tobacco. A plant which was originally the amusement of a few savage tribes has
become in a few centuries the fancied necessary of life to the most enlightened nations of
the earth, and it is probable that there is nothing cultivated by man which is now so universally
employed.

And the plant owes this width of celebrity to a combination of natural qualities so remarkable
as to yield great diversities of good and evil fame. It was first heralded as a medical panacea,
"the most sovereign and precious weed that ever the earth tendered to the use of man," and
was seldom mentioned, in the sixteenth century, without some reverential epithet. It was a
plant divine, a canonized vegetable. Each nation had its own pious name to bestow upon it.
The French called it herbe sainte, herbe sacrée, herbe propre à tous maux, panacée antarctique,--the
Italians, herba santa croce,--the Germans, heilig wundkraut. Botanists soberly classified it
as herba panacea and herba sancta, and Gerard in his "Herbal" fixed its name finally as sana
sancta Indorum, by which title it commonly appears in the professional recipes of the time.
Spenser, in his "Faërie Queene," bids the lovely Belphoebe gather it as "divine tobacco," and
Lilly the Euphuist calls it "our holy herb Nicotian," ranking it between violets and honey.
It was cultivated in France for medicinal purposes solely, for half a century before any one
there used it for pleasure, and till within the last hundred years it was familiarly prescribed,
all over Europe, for asthma, gout, catarrh, consumption, headache; and, in short, was credited
with curing more diseases than even the eighty-seven which Dr. Shew now charges it with producing.

So vast were the results of all this sanitary enthusiasm, that the use of tobacco in Europe
probably reached its climax in a century or two, and has since rather diminished than increased,
in proportion to the population. It probably appeared in England in 1586, being first used
in the Indian fashion, by handing one pipe from man to man throughout the company; the medium
of communication being a silver tube for the higher classes, and a straw and walnut-shell for
the baser sort. Paul Hentzner, who travelled in England in 1598, and Monsieur Misson, who wrote
precisely a century later, note almost in the same words "a perpetual use of tobacco"; and
the latter suspects that this is what makes "the generality of Englishmen so taciturn, so thoughtful,
and so melancholy." In Queen Elizabeth's time, the ladies of the court "would not scruple to
blow a pipe together very socially." In 1614 it was asserted that tobacco was sold openly in
more than seven thousand places in London, some of these being already attended by that patient
Indian who still stands seductive at tobacconists' doors. It was also estimated that the annual
receipts of these establishments amounted to more than three hundred thousand pounds. Elegant
ladies had their pictures painted, at least one in 1650 did, with pipe and box in hand. Rochefort,
a rather apocryphal French traveller in 1672, reported it to be the general custom in English
homes to set pipes on the table in the evening for the females as well as males of the family,
and to provide children's luncheon-baskets with a well-filled pipe, to be smoked at school,
under the directing eye of the master. In 1703, Lawrence Spooner wrote that "the sin of the
kingdom in the intemperate use of tobacco swelleth and increaseth so daily that I can compare
it to nothing but the waters of Noah, that swelled fifteen cubits above the highest mountains."
The deluge reached its height in England--so thinks the amusing and indefatigable Mr. Fairholt,
author of "Tobacco and its Associations"--in the reign of Queen Anne. Steele, in the "Spectator,"
(1711,) describes the snuff-box as a rival to the fan among ladies; and Goldsmith pictures
the belles at Bath as entering the water in full bathing costume, each provided with a small
floating basket, to hold a snuff-box, a kerchief, and a nosegay. And finally, in 1797, Dr.
Clarke complains of the handing about of the snuff-box in churches during worship, "to the
great scandal of religious people,"--adding, that kneeling in prayer was prevented by the large
quantity of saliva ejected in all directions. In view of such formidable statements as these,
it is hardly possible to believe that the present generation surpasses or even equals the past
in the consumption of tobacco.

And all this sudden popularity was in spite of a vast persecution which sought to unite all
Europe against this indulgence, in the seventeenth century. In Russia, its use was punishable
with amputation of the nose; in Berne, it ranked next to adultery among offences; Sandys, the
traveller, saw a Turk led through the streets of Constantinople mounted backward on an ass
with a tobacco-pipe thrust through his nose. Pope Urban VIII., in 1624, excommunicated those
who should use it in churches, and Innocent XII., in 1690, echoed the same anathema. Yet within
a few years afterwards travellers reported that same free use of snuff in Romish worship which
still astonishes spectators. To see a priest, during the momentous ceremonial of High Mass,
enliven the occasion by a voluptuous pinch, is a sight even more astonishing, though perhaps
less disagreeable, than the well-used spittoon which decorates so many Protestant pulpits.

But the Protestant pulpits did their full share in fighting the habit, for a time at least.
Among the Puritans, no man could use tobacco publicly, on penalty of a fine of two and sixpence,
or in a private dwelling, if strangers were present; and no two could use it together. That
iron pipe of Miles Standish, still preserved at Plymouth, must have been smoked in solitude
or not at all. This strictness was gradually relaxed, however, as the clergy took up the habit
of smoking; and I have seen an old painting, on the panels of an ancient parsonage in Newburyport,
representing a jovial circle of portly divines sitting pipe in hand around a table, with the
Latin motto, "In essentials unity, in non-essentials liberty, in all things charity." Apparently
the tobacco was one of the essentials, since there was unity respecting that. Furthermore,
Captain Underhill, hero of the Pequot War, boasted to the saints of having received his assurance
of salvation "while enjoying a pipe of that good creature, tobacco," "since when he had never
doubted it, though he should fall into sin." But it is melancholy to relate that this fall
did presently take place, in a very flagrant manner, and brought discredit upon tobacco conversions,
as being liable to end in smoke.

Indeed, some of the most royal wills that ever lived in the world have measured themselves
against the tobacco-plant and been defeated. Charles I. attempted to banish it, and in return
the soldiers of Cromwell puffed their smoke contemptuously in his face, as he sat a prisoner
in the guard-chamber. Cromwell himself undertook it, and Evelyn says that the troopers smoked
in triumph at his funeral. Wellington tried it, and the artists caricatured him on a pipe's
head with a soldier behind him defying with a whiff that imperial nose. Louis Napoleon is said
to be now attempting it, and probably finds his subjects more ready to surrender the freedom
of the press than of the pipe.

The more recent efforts against tobacco, like most arguments in which morals and physiology
are mingled, have lost much of their effect through exaggeration. On both sides there has been
enlisted much loose statement, with some bad logic. It is, for instance, unreasonable to hold
up the tobacco-plant to general indignation because Linnaeus classed it with the natural order
Luridae,--since he attributed the luridness only to the color of those plants, not to their
character. It is absurd to denounce it as belonging to the poisonous nightshade tribe, when
the potato and the tomato also appertain to that perilous domestic circle. It is hardly fair
even to complain of it for yielding a poisonous oil, when these two virtuous plants--to say
nothing of the peach and the almond--will under sufficient chemical provocation do the same
thing. Two drops of nicotine will, indeed, kill a rabbit; but so, it is said, will two drops
of solanine. Great are the resources of chemistry, and a well-regulated scientific mind can
detect something deadly almost anywhere.

Nor is it safe to assume, as many do, that tobacco predisposes very powerfully to more dangerous
dissipations. The non-smoking Saxons were probably far more intemperate in drinking than the
modern English; and Lane, the best authority, points out that wine is now far less used by
the Orientals than at the time of the "Arabian Nights," when tobacco had not been introduced.
And in respect to yet more perilous sensual excesses, tobacco is now admitted, both by friends
and foes, to be quite as much a sedative as a stimulant.

The point of objection on the ground of inordinate expense is doubtless better taken, and can
be met only by substantial proof that the enormous outlay is a wise one. Tobacco may be "the
anodyne of poverty," as somebody has said, but it certainly promotes poverty. This narcotic
lulls to sleep all pecuniary economy. Every pipe may not, indeed, cost so much as that jewelled
one seen by Dibdin in Vienna, which was valued at a thousand pounds; or even as the German
meerschaum which was passed from mouth to mouth through a whole regiment of soldiers till it
was colored to perfection, having never been allowed to cool,--a bill of one hundred pounds
being ultimately rendered for the tobacco consumed. But how heedlessly men squander money on
this pet luxury! By the report of the English University Commissioners, some ten years ago,
a student's annual tobacco-bill often amounts to forty pounds. Dr. Solly puts thirty pounds
as the lowest annual expenditure of an English smoker, and knows many who spend one hundred
and twenty pounds, and one three hundred pounds a year, on tobacco alone. In this country the
facts are hard to obtain, but many a man smokes twelve four-cent cigars a day, and many a man
four twelve-cent cigars,--spending in either case about half a dollar a day and not far from
two hundred dollars per annum. An industrious mechanic earns his two dollars and fifty cents
a day or a clerk his eight hundred dollars a year, spends a quarter of it on tobacco, and the
rest on his wife, children, and miscellaneous expenses.

But the impotency which marks some of the stock arguments against tobacco extends to most of
those in favor of it. My friend assures me that every one needs some narcotic, that the American
brain is too active, and that the influence of tobacco is quieting,--great is the enjoyment
of a comfortable pipe after dinner. I grant, on observing him at that period, that it appears
so. But I also observe, that, when the placid hour has passed away, his nervous system is more
susceptible, his hand more tremulous, his temper more irritable on slight occasions, than during
the days when the comfortable pipe chances to be omitted. The only effect of the narcotic appears,
therefore, to be a demand for another narcotic; and there seems no decided advantage over the
life of the birds and bees, who appear to keep their nervous systems in tolerably healthy condition
with no narcotic at all.

The argument drawn from a comparison of races is no better. Germans are vigorous and Turks
are long-lived, and they are all great smokers. But certainly the Germans do not appear so
vivacious, nor the Turks so energetic, as to afford triumphant demonstrations in behalf of
the sacred weed. Moreover, the Eastern tobacco is as much milder than ours as are the Continental
wines than even those semi-alcoholic mixtures which prevail at scrupulous communion-tables.
And as for German health, Dr. Schneider declares, in the London "Lancet," that it is because
of smoke that all his educated countrymen wear spectacles, that an immense amount of consumption
is produced in Germany by tobacco, and that English insurance companies are proverbially cautious
in insuring German lives. Dr. Carlyon gives much the same as his observation in Holland. These
facts may be overstated, but they are at least as good as those which they answer.

Not much better is the excuse alleged in the social and genial influences of tobacco. It certainly
seems a singular way of opening the lips for conversation by closing them on a pipe-stem, and
it would rather appear as if Fate designed to gag the smokers and let the non-smokers talk.
But supposing it otherwise, does it not mark a condition of extreme juvenility in our social
development, if no resources of intellect can enable a half-dozen intelligent men to be agreeable
to each other, without applying the forcing process, by turning the room into an imperfectly
organized chimney? Brilliant women can be brilliant without either wine or tobacco, and Napoleon
always maintained that without an admixture of feminine wit conversation grew tame. Are all
male beings so much stupider by nature than the other sex, that men require stimulants and
narcotics to make them mutually endurable?

