A road has been called Adelaide Road; it leads from the back of our  house to the bridge, and
thence to the garden, and by a bifurcation  to the pig pen.  It is thus much traversed, particularly
by Fanny.   An oleander, the only one of your seeds that prospered in this  climate, grows
there; and the name is now some week or ten days  applied and published.  ADELAIDE ROAD leads
also into the bush, to  the banana patch, and by a second bifurcation over the left branch
of the stream to the plateau and the right hand of the gorges.  In  short, it leads to all
sorts of good, and is, besides, in itself a  pretty winding path, bound downhill among big
woods to the margin  of the stream.

What a strange idea, to think me a Jew-hater!  Isaiah and David and  Heine are good enough
for me; and I leave more unsaid.  Were I of  Jew blood, I do not think I could ever forgive
the Christians; the  ghettos would get in my nostrils like mustard or lit gunpowder.   Just
so you as being a child of the Presbytery, I retain - I need  not dwell on that.  The ascendant
hand is what I feel most  strongly; I am bound in and in with my forbears; were he one of 
mine, I should not be struck at all by Mr. Moss of Bevis Marks, I  should still see behind
him Moses of the Mount and the Tables and  the shining face.  We are all nobly born; fortunate
those who know  it; blessed those who remember.

I am, my dear Adelaide, most genuinely yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Write by return to say you are better, and I will try to do the  same.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[VAILIMA], TUESDAY, 19TH MAY '91.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I don't know what you think of me, not having  written to you at all during
your illness.  I find two sheets begun  with your name, but that is no excuse. . . . I am keeping
bravely;  getting about better, every day, and hope soon to be in my usual  fettle.  My books
begin to come; and I fell once more on the Old  Bailey session papers.  I have 1778, 1784,
and 1786.  Should you be  able to lay hands on any other volumes, above all a little later,
I  should be very glad you should buy them for me.  I particularly  want ONE or TWO during
the course of the Peninsular War.  Come to  think, I ought rather to have communicated this
want to Bain.   Would it bore you to communicate to that effect with the great man?   The sooner
I have them, the better for me.  'Tis for Henry Shovel.   But Henry Shovel has now turned into
a work called 'The Shovels of  Newton French:  Including Memoirs of Henry Shovel, a Private
in the  Peninsular War,' which work is to begin in 1664 with the marriage  of Skipper, afterwards
Alderman Shovel of Bristol, Henry's great- great-grandfather, and end about 1832 with his own
second marriage  to the daughter of his runaway aunt.  Will the public ever stand  such an
opus?  Gude kens, but it tickles me.  Two or three  historical personages will just appear:
Judge Jeffreys,  Wellington, Colquhoun, Grant, and I think Townsend the runner.  I  know the
public won't like it; let 'em lump it then; I mean to make  it good; it will be more like a
saga. - Adieu, yours ever  affectionately,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

VAILIMA [SUMMER 1891].

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - I find among my grandfather's papers his own  reminiscences of his voyage
round the north with Sir Walter, eighty  years ago, LABUNTUR ANNI!  They are not remarkably
good, but he was  not a bad observer, and several touches seem to me speaking.  It  has occurred
to me you might like them to appear in the MAGAZINE.   If you would, kindly let me know, and
tell me how you would like it  handled.  My grandad's MS. runs to between six and seven thousand
words, which I could abbreviate of anecdotes that scarce touch Sir  W.  Would you like this
done?  Would you like me to introduce the  old gentleman?  I had something of the sort in my
mind, and could  fill a few columns rather A PROPOS.  I give you the first offer of  this,
according to your request; for though it may forestall one of  the interests of my biography,
the thing seems to me particularly  suited for prior appearance in a magazine.

I see the first number of the WRECKER; I thought it went lively  enough; and by a singular
accident, the picture is not unlike Tai- o-hae!

Thus we see the age of miracles, etc. - Yours very sincerely,

R. L. S.

Proofs for next mail.

Letter:  TO W. CRAIBE ANGUS

[SUMMER 1891.]

DEAR MR. ANGUS, - You can use my letter as you will.  The parcel  has not come; pray Heaven
the next post bring it safe.  Is it  possible for me to write a preface here?  I will try if
you like,  if you think I must:  though surely there are Rivers in Assyria.   Of course you
will send me sheets of the catalogue; I suppose it  (the preface) need not be long; perhaps
it should be rather very  short?  Be sure you give me your views upon these points.  Also 
tell me what names to mention among those of your helpers, and do  remember to register everything,
else it is not safe.

The true place (in my view) for a monument to Fergusson were the  churchyard of Haddington.
But as that would perhaps not carry many  votes, I should say one of the two following sites:-
First, either  as near the site of the old Bedlam as we could get, or, second,  beside the
Cross, the heart of his city.  Upon this I would have a  fluttering butterfly, and, I suggest,
the citation,

Poor butterfly, thy case I mourn.

For the case of Fergusson is not one to pretend about.  A more  miserable tragedy the sun never
shone upon, or (in consideration of  our climate) I should rather say refused to brighten.
- Yours  truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Where Burns goes will not matter.  He is no local poet, like your  Robin the First; he is general
as the casing air.  Glasgow, as the  chief city of Scottish men, would do well; but for God's
sake,  don't let it be like the Glasgow memorial to Knox:  I remember,  when I first saw this,
laughing for an hour by Shrewsbury clock.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO H. C. IDE

[VAILIMA, JUNE 19, 1891.]

DEAR MR. IDE, - Herewith please find the DOCUMENT, which I trust  will prove sufficient in
law.  It seems to me very attractive in  its eclecticism; Scots, English, and Roman law phrases
are all  indifferently introduced, and a quotation from the works of Haynes  Bayly can hardly
fail to attract the indulgence of the Bench. -  Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

[SEAL.]

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

WITNESS, LLOYD OSBOURNE, WITNESS, HAROLD WATTS.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

[VAILIMA, OCTOBER 1891.]

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES, - From this perturbed and hunted being expect  but a line, and that line
shall be but a whoop for Adela.  O she's  delicious, delicious; I could live and die with Adela
- die, rather  the better of the two; you never did a straighter thing, and never  will.

DAVID BALFOUR, second part of KIDNAPPED, is on the stocks at last;  and is not bad, I think.
As for THE WRECKER, it's a machine, you  know - don't expect aught else - a machine, and a
police machine;  but I believe the end is one of the most genuine butcheries in  literature;
and we point to our machine with a modest pride, as the  only police machine without a villain.
Our criminals are a most  pleasing crew, and leave the dock with scarce a stain upon their
character.

What a different line of country to be trying to draw Adela, and  trying to write the last
four chapters of THE WRECKER!  Heavens,  it's like two centuries; and ours is such rude, transpontine
business, aiming only at a certain fervour of conviction and sense  of energy and violence
in the men; and yours is so neat and bright  and of so exquisite a surface!  Seems dreadful
to send such a book  to such an author; but your name is on the list.  And we do  modestly
ask you to consider the chapters on the NORAH CREINA with  the study of Captain Nares, and
the forementioned last four, with  their brutality of substance and the curious (and perhaps
unsound)  technical manoeuvre of running the story together to a point as we  go along, the
narrative becoming more succinct and the details  fining off with every page. - Sworn affidavit of

R. L. S.

NO PERSON NOW ALIVE HAS BEATEN ADELA:  I ADORE ADELA AND HER MAKER.   SIC SUBSCRIB.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

A Sublime Poem to follow.

R. L. S.

ERUCTAVIT COR MEUM.

My heart was inditing a goodly matter about Adela Chart. Though oft I've been touched by the
volatile dart, To none have I grovelled but Adela Chart, There are passable ladies, no question,
in art - But where is the marrow of Adela Chart? I dreamed that to Tyburn I passed in the cart
- I dreamed I was married to Adela Chart: From the first I awoke with a palpable start, The
second dumfoundered me, Adela Chart!

Another verse bursts from me, you see; no end to the violence of  the Muse.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

OCTOBER 8TH, 1891.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - All right, you shall have the TALES OF MY  GRANDFATHER soon, but I guess
we'll try and finish off THE WRECKER  first.  A PROPOS of whom, please send some advanced sheets
to  Cassell's - away ahead of you - so that they may get a dummy out.

Do you wish to illustrate MY GRANDFATHER?  He mentions as excellent  a portrait of Scott by
Basil Hall's brother.  I don't think I ever  saw this engraved; would it not, if you could
get track of it,  prove a taking embellishment?  I suggest this for your  consideration and
inquiry.  A new portrait of Scott strikes me as  good.  There is a hard, tough, constipated
old portrait of my  grandfather hanging in my aunt's house, Mrs. Alan Stevenson, 16 St.  Leonard's
Terrace, Chelsea, which has never been engraved - the  better portrait, Joseph's bust has been
reproduced, I believe,  twice - and which, I am sure, my aunt would let you have a copy of.
The plate could be of use for the book when we get so far, and thus  to place it in the MAGAZINE
might be an actual saving.

I am swallowed up in politics for the first, I hope for the last,  time in my sublunary career.
It is a painful, thankless trade; but  one thing that came up I could not pass in silence.
Much drafting,  addressing, deputationising has eaten up all my time, and again (to  my contrition)
I leave you Wreckerless.  As soon as the mail leaves  I tackle it straight. - Yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

VAILIMA [AUTUMN 1891].

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - The time draws nigh, the mail is near due,  and I snatch a moment of
collapse so that you may have at least  some sort of a scratch of note along with the 

\ end
 \ of
  \ THE
   \ WRECKER.
     Hurray!

which I mean to go herewith.  It has taken me a devil of a pull,  but I think it's going to
be ready.  If I did not know you were on  the stretch waiting for it and trembling for your
illustrations, I  would keep it for another finish; but things being as they are, I  will let
it go the best way I can get it.  I am now within two  pages of the end of Chapter XXV., which
is the last chapter, the  end with its gathering up of loose threads, being the dedication
to  Low, and addressed to him:  this is my last and best expedient for  the knotting up of
these loose cards.  'Tis possible I may not get  that finished in time, in which case you'll
receive only Chapters  XXII. to XXV. by this mail, which is all that can be required for  illustration.

I wish you would send me MEMOIRS OF BARON MARBOT (French);  INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE
HISTORY OF LANGUAGE, Strong,  Logeman & Wheeler; PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOLOGY, William James; Morris
& Magnusson's SAGA LIBRARY, any volumes that are out; George  Meredith's ONE OF OUR CONQUERORS;
LA BAS, by Huysmans (French);  O'Connor Morris's GREAT COMMANDERS OF MODERN TIMES; LIFE'S 
HANDICAP, by Kipling; of Taine's ORIGINES DE LA FRANCE  CONTEMPORAINE, I have only as far as
LA REVOLUTION, vol. iii.; if  another volume is out, please add that.  There is for a book-box.

I hope you will like the end; I think it is rather strong meat.  I  have got into such a deliberate,
dilatory, expansive turn, that the  effort to compress this last yarn was unwelcome; but the
longest  yarn has to come to an end sometime.  Please look it over for  carelessnesses, and
tell me if it had any effect upon your jaded  editorial mind.  I'll see if ever I have time
to add more.

I add to my book-box list Adams' HISTORICAL ESSAYS; the Plays of A.  W. Pinero - all that have
appeared, and send me the rest in course  as they do appear; NOUGHTS AND CROSSES by Q.; Robertson's
SCOTLAND  UNDER HER EARLY KINGS.

SUNDAY.

The deed is done, didst thou not hear a noise?  'The end' has been  written to this endless
yarn, and I am once more a free man.  What  will he do with it?

Letter:  TO W. CRAIBE ANGUS

VAILIMA, SAMOA, NOVEMBER 1891.

MY DEAR MR. ANGUS, - Herewith the invaluable sheets.  They came  months after your letter,
and I trembled; but here they are, and I  have scrawled my vile name on them, and 'thocht shame'
as I did it.   I am expecting the sheets of your catalogue, so that I may attack  the preface.
Please give me all the time you can.  The sooner the  better; you might even send me early
proofs as they are sent out,  to give me more incubation.   But the journalist's method is
the way to manufacture lies; it is  will-worship - if you know the luminous quaker phrase;
and the will  is only to be brought in the field for study, and again for  revision.  The essential
part of work is not an act, it is a state.

I do not know why I write you this trash.

Many thanks for your handsome dedication.  I have not yet had time  to do more than glance
at Mrs. Begg; it looks interesting. - Yours  very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MISS ANNIE H. IDE

VAILIMA, SAMOA [NOVEMBER 1891].

MY DEAR LOUISA, - Your picture of the church, the photograph of  yourself and your sister,
and your very witty and pleasing letter,  came all in a bundle, and made me feel I had my money's
worth for  that birthday.  I am now, I must be, one of your nearest relatives;  exactly what
we are to each other, I do not know, I doubt if the  case has ever happened before - your papa
ought to know, and I  don't believe he does; but I think I ought to call you in the  meanwhile,
and until we get the advice of counsel learned in the  law, my name-daughter.  Well, I was
extremely pleased to see by the  church that my name-daughter could draw; by the letter, that
she  was no fool; and by the photograph, that she was a pretty girl,  which hurts nothing.
See how virtues are rewarded!  My first idea  of adopting you was entirely charitable; and
here I find that I am  quite proud of it, and of you, and that I chose just the kind of  name-daughter
I wanted.  For I can draw too, or rather I mean to  say I could before I forgot how; and I
am very far from being a  fool myself, however much I may look it; and I am as beautiful as
the day, or at least I once hoped that perhaps I might be going to  be.  And so I might.  So
that you see we are well met, and peers on  these important points.  I am VERY glad also that
you are older  than your sister.  So should I have been, if I had had one.  So  that the number
of points and virtues which you have inherited from  your name-father is already quite surprising.

I wish you would tell your father - not that I like to encourage my  rival - that we have had
a wonderful time here of late, and that  they are having a cold day on Mulinuu, and the consuls
are writing  reports, and I am writing to the TIMES, and if we don't get rid of  our friends
this time I shall begin to despair of everything but my  name-daughter.

You are quite wrong as to the effect of the birthday on your age.   From the moment the deed
was registered (as it was in the public  press with every solemnity), the 13th of November
became your own  AND ONLY birthday, and you ceased to have been born on Christmas  Day.  Ask
your father:  I am sure he will tell you this is sound  law.  You are thus become a month and
twelve days younger than you  were, but will go on growing older for the future in the regular
and human manner from one 13th November to the next.  The effect on  me is more doubtful; I
may, as you suggest, live for ever; I might,  on the other hand, come to pieces like the one-horse
shay at a  moment's notice; doubtless the step was risky, but I do not the  least regret that
which enables me to sign myself your revered and  delighted name-father,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO FRED ORR

VAILIMA, UPOLU, SAMOA, NOVEMBER 28TH, 1891.

DEAR SIR, - Your obliging communication is to hand.  I am glad to  find that you have read
some of my books, and to see that you spell  my name right.  This is a point (for some reason)
of great  difficulty; and I believe that a gentleman who can spell Stevenson  with a v at sixteen,
should have a show for the Presidency before  fifty.  By that time

I, nearer to the wayside inn,

predict that you will have outgrown your taste for autographs, but  perhaps your son may have
inherited the collection, and on the  morning of the great day will recall my prophecy to your
mind.  And  in the papers of 1921 (say) this letter may arouse a smile.

Whatever you do, read something else besides novels and newspapers;  the first are good enough
when they are good; the second, at their  best, are worth nothing.  Read great books of literature
and  history; try to understand the Roman Empire and the Middle Ages; be  sure you do not understand
when you dislike them; condemnation is  non-comprehension.  And if you know something of these
two periods,  you will know a little more about to-day, and may be a good  President.

I send you my best wishes, and am yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON,

AUTHOR OF A VAST QUANTITY OF LITTLE BOOKS.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

[VAILIMA, DECEMBER 1891.]

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - The end of THE WRECKER having but just come  in, you will, I dare say,
be appalled to receive three (possibly  four) chapters of a new book of the least attractive
sort:  a  history of nowhere in a corner, for no time to mention, running to  a volume!  Well,
it may very likely be an illusion; it is very  likely no one could possibly wish to read it,
but I wish to publish  it.  If you don't cotton to the idea, kindly set it up at my  expense,
and let me know your terms for publishing.  The great  affair to me is to have per return (if
it might be) four or five -  better say half a dozen - sets of the roughest proofs that can
be  drawn.  There are a good many men here whom I want to read the  blessed thing, and not
one would have the energy to read MS.  At  the same time, if you care to glance at it, and
have the time, I  should be very glad of your opinion as to whether I have made any  step at
all towards possibly inducing folk at home to read matter  so extraneous and outlandish.  I
become heavy and owlish; years sit  upon me; it begins to seem to me to be a man's business
to leave  off his damnable faces and say his say.  Else I could have made it  pungent and light
and lively.  In considering, kindly forget that I  am R. L. S.; think of the four chapters
as a book you are reading,  by an inhabitant of our 'lovely but fatil' islands; and see if
it  could possibly amuse the hebetated public.  I have to publish  anyway, you understand;
I have a purpose beyond; I am concerned for  some of the parties to this quarrel.  What I want
to hear is from  curiosity; what I want you to judge of is what we are to do with  the book
in a business sense.  To me it is not business at all; I  had meant originally to lay all the
profits to the credit of Samoa;  when it comes to the pinch of writing, I judge this unfair
- I give  too much - and I mean to keep (if there be any profit at all) one- half for the artisan;
the rest I shall hold over to give to the  Samoans FOR THAT WHICH I CHOOSE AND AGAINST WORK
DONE.  I think I  have never heard of greater insolence than to attempt such a  subject; yet
the tale is so strange and mixed, and the people so  oddly charactered - above all, the whites
- and the high note of  the hurricane and the warships is so well prepared to take popular
interest, and the latter part is so directly in the day's movement,  that I am not without
hope but some may read it; and if they don't,  a murrain on them!  Here is, for the first time,
a tale of Greeks -  Homeric Greeks - mingled with moderns, and all true; Odysseus  alongside
of Rajah Brooke, PROPORTION GARDEE; and all true.  Here  is for the first time since the Greeks
(that I remember) the  history of a handful of men, where all know each other in the eyes,
and live close in a few acres, narrated at length, and with the  seriousness of history.  Talk
of the modern novel; here is a modern  history.  And if I had the misfortune to found a school,
the  legitimate historian might lie down and die, for he could never  overtake his material.
Here is a little tale that has not 'caret'- ed its 'vates'; 'sacer' is another point.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

DECEMBER 7TH, 1891.

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES, - Thanks for yours; your former letter was  lost; so it appears was my
long and masterly treatise on the TRAGIC  MUSE.  I remember sending it very well, and there
went by the same  mail a long and masterly tractate to Gosse about his daddy's life,  for which
I have been long expecting an acknowledgment, and which  is plainly gone to the bottom with
the other.  If you see Gosse,  please mention it.  These gems of criticism are now lost  literature,
like the tomes of Alexandria.  I could not do 'em  again.  And I must ask you to be content
with a dull head, a weary  hand, and short commons, for to-day, as I am physically tired with
hard work of every kind, the labours of the planter and the author  both piled upon me mountain
deep.  I am delighted beyond expression  by Bourget's book:  he has phrases which affect me
almost like  Montaigne; I had read ere this a masterly essay of his on Pascal;  this book does
it; I write for all his essays by this mail, and  shall try to meet him when I come to Europe.
The proposal is to  pass a summer in France, I think in Royat, where the faithful could  come
and visit me; they are now not many.  I expect Henry James to  come and break a crust or two
with us.  I believe it will be only  my wife and myself; and she will go over to England, but
not I, or  possibly incog. to Southampton, and then to Boscombe to see poor  Lady Shelley.
I am writing - trying to write in a Babel fit for  the bottomless pit; my wife, her daughter,
her grandson and my  mother, all shrieking at each other round the house - not in war,  thank
God! but the din is ultra martial, and the note of Lloyd  joins in occasionally, and the cause
of this to-do is simply cacao,  whereof chocolate comes.  You may drink of our chocolate perhaps
in  five or six years from now, and not know it.  It makes a fine  bustle, and gives us some
hard work, out of which I have slunk for  to-day.

I have a story coming out:  God knows when or how; it answers to  the name of the BEACH OF
FALESA, and I think well of it.  I was  delighted with the TRAGIC MUSE; I thought the Muse
herself one of  your best works; I was delighted also to hear of the success of  your piece,
as you know I am a dam failure, and might have dined  with the dinner club that Daudet and
these parties frequented.

NEXT DAY.

I have just been breakfasting at Baiae and Brindisi, and the charm  of Bourget hag-rides me.
I wonder if this exquisite fellow, all  made of fiddle-strings and scent and intelligence,
could bear any  of my bald prose.  If you think he could, ask Colvin to send him a  copy of
these last essays of mine when they appear; and tell  Bourget they go to him from a South Sea
Island as literal homage.   I have read no new book for years that gave me the same literary
thrill as his SENSATIONS D'ITALIE.  If (as I imagine) my cut-and- dry literature would be death
to him, and worse than death -  journalism - be silent on the point.  For I have a great curiosity
to know him, and if he doesn't know my work, I shall have the  better chance of making his
acquaintance.  I read THE PUPIL the  other day with great joy; your little boy is admirable;
why is  there no little boy like that unless he hails from the Great  Republic?

Here I broke off, and wrote Bourget a dedication; no use resisting;  it's a love affair.  O,
he's exquisite, I bless you for the gift of  him.  I have really enjoyed this book as I - almost
as I - used to  enjoy books when I was going twenty - twenty-three; and these are  the years
for reading!

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

[VAILIMA] JAN 2ND, '92.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - Overjoyed you were pleased with WRECKER, and  shall consider your protests.
There is perhaps more art than you  think for in the peccant chapter, where I have succeeded
in packing  into one a dedication, an explanation, and a termination.  Surely  you had not
recognised the phrase about boodle?  It was a quotation  from Jim Pinkerton, and seemed to
me agreeably skittish.  However,  all shall be prayerfully considered.

To come to a more painful subject.  Herewith go three more chapters  of the wretched HISTORY;
as you see, I approach the climax.  I  expect the book to be some 70,000 words, of which you
have now 45.   Can I finish it for next mail?  I am going to try!  'Tis a long  piece of journalism,
and full of difficulties here and there, of  this kind and that, and will make me a power of
friends to be sure.   There is one Becker who will probably put up a window to me in the  church
where he was baptized; and I expect a testimonial from  Captain Hand.

Sorry to let the mail go without the Scott; this has been a bad  month with me, and I have
been below myself.  I shall find a way to  have it come by next, or know the reason why.  The
mail after,  anyway.

A bit of a sketch map appears to me necessary for my HISTORY;  perhaps two.  If I do not have
any, 'tis impossible any one should  follow; and I, even when not at all interested, demand
that I shall  be able to follow; even a tourist book without a map is a cross to  me; and there
must be others of my way of thinking.  I inclose the  very artless one that I think needful.
Vailima, in case you are  curious, is about as far again behind Tanugamanono as that is from
the sea.

M'Clure is publishing a short story of mine, some 50,000 words, I  think, THE BEACH OF FALESA;
when he's done with it, I want you and  Cassell to bring it out in a little volume; I shall
send you a  dedication for it; I believe it good; indeed, to be honest, very  good.  Good gear
that pleases the merchant.

The other map that I half threaten is a chart for the hurricane.   Get me Kimberley's report
of the hurricane:  not to be found here.   It is of most importance; I MUST have it with my
proofs of that  part, if I cannot have it earlier, which now seems impossible. -  Yours in
hot haste,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO J. M. BARRIE

VAILIMA, SAMOA, FEBRUARY 1892.

DEAR MR. BARRIE, - This is at least the third letter I have written  you, but my correspondence
has a bad habit of not getting so far as  the post.  That which I possess of manhood turns
pale before the  business of the address and envelope.  But I hope to be more  fortunate with
this:  for, besides the usual and often recurrent  desire to thank you for your work-you are
one of four that have  come to the front since I was watching and had a corner of my own  to
watch, and there is no reason, unless it be in these mysterious  tides that ebb and flow, and
make and mar and murder the works of  poor scribblers, why you should not do work of the best
order.  The  tides have borne away my sentence, of which I was weary at any  rate, and between
authors I may allow myself so much freedom as to  leave it pending.  We are both Scots besides,
and I suspect both  rather Scotty Scots; my own Scotchness tends to intermittency, but  is
at times erisypelitous - if that be rightly spelt.  Lastly, I  have gathered we had both made
our stages in the metropolis of the  winds:  our Virgil's 'grey metropolis,' and I count that
a lasting  bond.  No place so brands a man.

Finally, I feel it a sort of duty to you to report progress.  This  may be an error, but I
believed I detected your hand in an article  - it may be an illusion, it may have been by one
of those  industrious insects who catch up and reproduce the handling of each  emergent man
- but I'll still hope it was yours - and hope it may  please you to hear that the continuation
of KIDNAPPED is under way.   I have not yet got to Alan, so I do not know if he is still alive,
but David seems to have a kick or two in his shanks.  I was pleased  to see how the Anglo-Saxon
theory fell into the trap:  I gave my  Lowlander a Gaelic name, and even commented on the fact
in the  text; yet almost all critics recognised in Alan and David a Saxon  and a Celt.  I know
not about England; in Scotland at least, where  Gaelic was spoken in Fife little over the century
ago, and in  Galloway not much earlier, I deny that there exists such a thing as  a pure Saxon,
and I think it more than questionable if there be  such a thing as a pure Celt.

But what have you to do with this? and what have I?  Let us  continue to inscribe our little
bits of tales, and let the heathen  rage!  Yours, with sincere interest in your career,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM MORRIS

VAILIMA, SAMOA, FEB. 1892.

MASTER, - A plea from a place so distant should have some weight,  and from a heart so grateful
should have some address.  I have been  long in your debt, Master, and I did not think it could
be so much  increased as you have now increased it.  I was long in your debt  and deep in your
debt for many poems that I shall never forget, and  for SIGURD before all, and now you have
plunged me beyond payment  by the Saga Library.  And so now, true to human nature, being  plunged
beyond payment, I come and bark at your heels.

For surely, Master, that tongue that we write, and that you have  illustrated so nobly, is
yet alive.  She has her rights and laws,  and is our mother, our queen, and our instrument.
Now in that  living tongue WHERE has one sense, WHEREAS another.  In the  HEATHSLAYINGS STORY,
p. 241, line 13, it bears one of its ordinary  senses.  Elsewhere and usually through the two
volumes, which is  all that has yet reached me of this entrancing publication, WHEREAS  is
made to figure for WHERE.

For the love of God, my dear and honoured Morris, use WHERE, and  let us know WHEREAS we are,
wherefore our gratitude shall grow,  whereby you shall be the more honoured wherever men love
clear  language, whereas now, although we honour, we are troubled.

Whereunder, please find inscribed to this very impudent but yet  very anxious document, the
name of one of the most distant but not  the youngest or the coldest of those who honour you.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. CHARLES FAIRCHILD

[VAILIMA, MARCH 1892.]

MY DEAR MRS. FAIRCHILD, - I am guilty in your sight, but my affairs  besiege me.      The chief-justiceship
of a family of nineteen  persons is in itself no sinecure, and sometimes occupies me for  days:
two weeks ago for four days almost entirely, and for two  days entirely.  Besides which, I
have in the last few months  written all but one chapter of a HISTORY OF SAMOA for the last
eight or nine years; and while I was unavoidably delayed in the  writing of this, awaiting
material, put in one-half of DAVID  BALFOUR, the sequel to KIDNAPPED.  Add the ordinary impediments
of  life, and admire my busyness.  I am now an old, but healthy  skeleton, and degenerate much
towards the machine.  By six at work:   stopped at half-past ten to give a history lesson to
a step- grandson; eleven, lunch; after lunch we have a musical performance  till two; then
to work again; bath, 4.40, dinner, five; cards in  the evening till eight; and then to bed
- only I have no bed, only  a chest with a mat and blankets - and read myself to sleep.  This
is the routine, but often sadly interrupted.  Then you may see me  sitting on the floor of
my verandah haranguing and being harangued  by squatting chiefs on a question of a road; or
more privately  holding an inquiry into some dispute among our familiars, myself on  my bed,
the boys on the floor - for when it comes to the judicial I  play dignity - or else going down
to Apia on some more or less  unsatisfactory errand.  Altogether it is a life that suits me,
but  it absorbs me like an ocean.  That is what I have always envied and  admired in Scott;
with all that immensity of work and study, his  mind kept flexible, glancing to all points
of natural interest.   But the lean hot spirits, such as mine, become hypnotised with  their
bit occupations - if I may use Scotch to you - it is so far  more scornful than any English
idiom.  Well, I can't help being a  skeleton, and you are to take this devious passage for
an apology.

I thought ALADDIN capital fun; but why, in fortune, did he pretend  it was moral at the end?
The so-called nineteenth century, OU VA- T-IL SE NICHER?  'Tis a trifle, but Pyle would do
well to knock the  passage out, and leave his boguey tale a boguey tale, and a good  one at that.

The arrival of your box was altogether a great success to the  castaways.  You have no idea
where we live.  Do you know, in all  these islands there are not five hundred whites, and no
postal  delivery, and only one village - it is no more - and would be a  mean enough village
in Europe?  We were asked the other day if  Vailima were the name of our post town, and we
laughed.  Do you  know, though we are but three miles from the village metropolis, we  have
no road to it, and our goods are brought on the pack-saddle?   And do you know - or I should
rather say, can you believe - or (in  the famous old Tichborne trial phrase) would you be surprised
to  learn, that all you have read of Vailima - or Subpriorsford, as I  call it - is entirely
false, and we have no ice-machine, and no  electric light, and no water supply but the cistern
of the heavens,  and but one public room, and scarce a bedroom apiece?  But, of  course, it
is well known that I have made enormous sums by my  evanescent literature, and you will smile
at my false humility.   The point, however, is much on our minds just now.  We are  expecting
an invasion of Kiplings; very glad we shall be to see  them; but two of the party are ladies,
and I tell you we had to  hold a council of war to stow them.  You European ladies are so 
particular; with all of mine, sleeping has long become a public  function, as with natives
and those who go down much into the sea  in ships.

Dear Mrs. Fairchild, I must go to my work.  I have but two words to  say in conclusion.

First, civilisation is rot.

Second, console a savage with more of the milk of that over  civilised being, your adorable
schoolboy.

As I wrote these remarkable words, I was called down to eight  o'clock prayers, and have just
worked through a chapter of Joshua  and five verses, with five treble choruses of a Samoan
hymn; but  the music was good, our boys and precentress ('tis always a woman  that leads) did
better than I ever heard them, and to my great  pleasure I understood it all except one verse.
This gave me the  more time to try and identify what the parts were doing, and  further convict
my dull ear.  Beyond the fact that the soprano rose  to the tonic above, on one occasion I
could recognise nothing.   This is sickening, but I mean to teach my ear better before I am
done with it or this vile carcase.

I think it will amuse you (for a last word) to hear that our  precentress - she is the washerwoman
- is our shame.  She is a  good, healthy, comely, strapping young wench, full of energy and
seriousness, a splendid workwoman, delighting to train our chorus,  delighting in the poetry
of the hymns, which she reads aloud (on  the least provocation) with a great sentiment of rhythm.
Well,  then, what is curious?  Ah, we did not know! but it was told us in  a whisper from the
cook-house - she is not of good family.  Don't  let it get out, please; everybody knows it,
of course, here; there  is no reason why Europe and the States should have the advantage of
me also.  And the rest of my housefolk are all chief-people, I  assure you.  And my late overseer
(far the best of his race) is a  really serious chief with a good 'name.'  Tina is the name;
it is  not in the Almanach de Gotha, it must have got dropped at press.   The odd thing is,
we rather share the prejudice.  I have almost  always - though not quite always - found the
higher the chief the  better the man through all the islands; or, at least, that the best 
man came always from a highish rank.  I hope Helen will continue to  prove a bright exception.

With love to Fairchild and the Huge Schoolboy, I am, my dear Mrs.  Fairchild, yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

[VAILIMA, MARCH 1892.]

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - Herewith Chapters IX. and X., and I am left  face to face with the horrors
and dilemmas of the present regimen:   pray for those that go down to the sea in ships.  I
have promised  Henley shall have a chance to publish the hurricane chapter if he  like, so
please let the slips be sent QUAM PRIMUM to C. Baxter,  W.S., 11 S. Charlotte Street, Edinburgh.
I got on mighty quick  with that chapter - about five days of the toughest kind of work.  
God forbid I should ever have such another pirn to wind!  When I  invent a language, there
shall be a direct and an indirect pronoun  differently declined - then writing would be some fun.

DIRECT     INDIRECT

  He         Tu
  Him        Tum
  His        Tus

Ex.:  HE seized TUM by TUS throat; but TU at the same moment caught  HIM by HIS hair.  A fellow
could write hurricanes with an  inflection like that!  Yet there would he difficulties too.

Do what you please about THE BEACH; and I give you CARTE BLANCHE to  write in the matter to
Baxter - or telegraph if the time press - to  delay the English contingent.  Herewith the two
last slips of THE  WRECKER.  I cannot go beyond.  By the way, pray compliment the  printers
on the proofs of the Samoa racket, but hint to them that  it is most unbusiness-like and unscholarly
to clip the edges of the  galleys; these proofs should really have been sent me on large  paper;
and I and my friends here are all put to a great deal of  trouble and confusion by the mistake.
- For, as you must conceive,  in a matter so contested and complicated, the number of corrections
and the length of explanations is considerable.

Please add to my former orders -

LE CHEVALIER DES TOUCHES  } by Barbey d'Aurevilly. LES DIABOLIQUES . . .     } CORRESPONDANCE
DE HENRI BEYLE (Stendahl).

Yours sincerely,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO T. W. DOVER

VAILIMA PLANTATION, UPOLU, SAMOA, JUNE 20TH, 1892.

SIR, - In reply to your very interesting letter, I cannot fairly  say that I have ever been
poor, or known what it was to want a  meal.  I have been reduced, however, to a very small
sum of money,  with no apparent prospect of increasing it; and at that time I  reduced myself
to practically one meal a day, with the most  disgusting consequences to my health.  At this
time I lodged in the  house of a working man, and associated much with others.  At the  same
time, from my youth up, I have always been a good deal and  rather intimately thrown among
the working-classes, partly as a  civil engineer in out-of-the-way places, partly from a strong
and,  I hope, not ill-favoured sentiment of curiosity.  But the place  where, perhaps, I was
most struck with the fact upon which you  comment was the house of a friend, who was exceedingly
poor, in  fact, I may say destitute, and who lived in the attic of a very  tall house entirely
inhabited by persons in varying stages of  poverty.  As he was also in ill-health, I made a
habit of passing  my afternoon with him, and when there it was my part to answer the  door.
The steady procession of people begging, and the expectant  and confident manner in which they
presented themselves, struck me  more and more daily; and I could not but remember with surprise
that though my father lived but a few streets away in a fine house,  beggars scarce came to
the door once a fortnight or a month.  From  that time forward I made it my business to inquire,
and in the  stories which I am very fond of hearing from all sorts and  conditions of men,
learned that in the time of their distress it  was always from the poor they sought assistance,
and almost always  from the poor they got it.

Trusting I have now satisfactorily answered your question, which I  thank you for asking, I
remain, with sincere compliments,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

VAILIMA, SUMMER 1892.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - First of all, YOU HAVE ALL THE CORRECTIONS ON  'THE WRECKER.'  I found
I had made what I meant and forgotten it,  and was so careless as not to tell you.

Second, of course, and by all means, charge corrections on the  Samoa book to me; but there
are not near so many as I feared.  The  Lord hath dealt bountifully with me, and I believe
all my advisers  were amazed to see how nearly correct I had got the truck, at least  I was.
With this you will receive the whole revise and a  typewritten copy of the last chapter.  And
the thing now is Speed,  to catch a possible revision of the treaty.  I believe Cassells are
to bring it out, but Baxter knows, and the thing has to be crammed  through PRESTISSIMO, A
LA CHASSEUR.

You mention the belated Barbeys; what about the equally belated  Pineros?  And I hope you will
keep your bookshop alive to supplying  me continuously with the SAGA LIBRARY.  I cannot get
enough of  SAGAS; I wish there were nine thousand; talk about realism!

All seems to flourish with you; I also prosper; none the less for  being quit of that abhorred
task, Samoa.  I could give a supper  party here were there any one to sup.  Never was such
a  disagreeable task, but the thing had to be told. . . .

There, I trust I am done with this cursed chapter of my career, bar  the rotten eggs and broken
bottles that may follow, of course.   Pray remember, speed is now all that can be asked, hoped,
or  wished.  I give up all hope of proofs, revises, proof of the map,  or sic like; and you
on your side will try to get it out as  reasonably seemly as may be.

Whole Samoa book herewith.  Glory be to God. - Yours very  sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

VAILIMA PLANTATION, UPOLU, SAMOAN ISLANDS, 18TH JULY 1892.

MY DEAR CHARLES,- . . . I have been now for some time contending  with powers and principalities,
and I have never once seen one of  my own letters to the TIMES.  So when you see something
in the  papers that you think might interest the exiles of Upolu, do not  think twice, out
with your saxpence, and send it flying to Vailima.   Of what you say of the past, eh, man,
it was a queer time, and  awful miserable, but there's no sense in denying it was awful fun.
Do you mind the youth in Highland garb and the tableful of coppers?   Do you mind the SIGNAL
of Waterloo Place? - Hey, how the blood  stands to the heart at such a memory! - Hae ye the
notes o't?   Gie's them. - Gude's sake, man, gie's the notes o't; I mind ye made  a tune o't
an' played it on your pinanny; gie's the notes.  Dear  Lord, that past.

Glad to hear Henley's prospects are fair:  his new volume is the  work of a real poet.  He
is one of those who can make a noise of  his own with words, and in whom experience strikes
an individual  note.  There is perhaps no more genuine poet living, bar the Big  Guns.  In
case I cannot overtake an acknowledgment to himself by  this mail, please let him hear of my
pleasure and admiration.  How  poorly - compares!  He is all smart journalism and cleverness:
it  is all bright and shallow and limpid, like a business paper - a  good one, S'ENTEND; but
there is no blot of heart's blood and the  Old Night:  there are no harmonics, there is scarce
harmony to his  music; and in Henley - all of these; a touch, a sense within sense,  a sound
outside the sound, the shadow of the inscrutable, eloquent  beyond all definition.  The First
London Voluntary knocked me  wholly. - Ever yours affectionately, my dear Charles,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Kind memories to your father and all friends.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

VAILIMA PLANTATION, UPOLU, SAMOA, AUGUST 1ST, 1892.  Again and again, I take  the book down,
and read, and my blood is fired as it used to be in  youth.  ANDANTE CON MOTO in the VOLUNTARIES,
and the thing about  the trees at night (No. XXIV. I think) are up to date my  favourites.
I did not guess you were so great a magician; these  are new tunes, this is an undertone of
the true Apollo; these are  not verse, they are poetry - inventions, creations, in language.
I  thank you for the joy you have given me, and remain your old friend  and present huge admirer,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

The hand is really the hand of Esau, but under a course of  threatened scrivener's cramp.

For the next edition of the Book of Verses, pray accept an  emendation.  Last three lines of
Echoes No. XLIV. read -

'But life in act?  How should the grave Be victor over these, Mother, a mother of men?'

The two vocatives scatter the effect of this inimitable close.  If  you insist on the longer
line, equip 'grave' with an epithet.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

VAILIMA, UPOLU, AUGUST 1st, '92.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - Herewith MY GRANDFATHER.  I have had rather a  bad time suppressing the
old gentleman, who was really in a very  garrulous stage; as for getting him IN ORDER, I could
do but little  towards that; however, there are one or two points of interest  which may justify
us in printing.  The swinging of his stick and  not knowing the sailor of Coruiskin, in particular,
and the account  of how he wrote the lives in the Bell Book particularly please me.  I hope
my own little introduction is not egoistic; or rather I do  not care if it is.  It was that
old gentleman's blood that brought  me to Samoa.

By the by, vols. vii., viii., and ix. of Adams's HISTORY have never  come to hand; no more
have the dictionaries.

Please send me STONEHENGE ON HORSE, STORIES AND INTERLUDES by Barry  Pain, and EDINBURGH SKETCHES
AND MEMOIRS by David Masson.  THE  WRECKER has turned up.  So far as I have seen, it is very
satisfactory, but on pp. 548, 549, there has been a devil of a  miscarriage.  The two Latin
quotations instead of following each  other being separated (doubtless for printing considerations)
by a  line of prose.  My compliments to the printers; there is doubtless  such a thing as good
printing, but there is such a thing as good  sense.

The sequel to KIDNAPPED, DAVID BALFOUR by name, is about three- quarters done and gone to press
for serial publication.  By what I  can find out it ought to be through hand with that and
ready for  volume form early next spring. - Yours very sincerely,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO ANDREW LANG

[VAILIMA, AUGUST 1892.]

MY DEAR LANG, - I knew you would prove a trusty purveyor.  The  books you have sent are admirable.
I got the name of my hero out  of Brown - Blair of Balmyle - Francie Blair.  But whether to
call  the story BLAIR OF BALMYLE, or whether to call it THE YOUNG  CHEVALIER, I have not yet
decided.  The admirable Cameronian tract  - perhaps you will think this a cheat - is to be
boned into DAVID  BALFOUR, where it will fit better, and really furnishes me with a  desired
foothold over a boggy place.

LATER; no, it won't go in, and I fear I must give up 'the  idolatrous occupant upon the throne,'
a phrase that overjoyed me  beyond expression.  I am in a deuce of a flutter with politics,
which I hate, and in which I certainly do not shine; but a fellow  cannot stand aside and look
on at such an exhibition as our  government.  'Taint decent; no gent can hold a candle to it.
But  it's a grind to be interrupted by midnight messengers and pass your  days writing proclamations
(which are never proclaimed) and  petitions (which ain't petited) and letters to the TIMES,
which it  makes my jaws yawn to re-read, and all your time have your heart  with David Balfour:
he has just left Glasgow this morning for  Edinburgh, James More has escaped from the castle;
it is far more  real to me than the Behring Sea or the Baring brothers either - he  got the
news of James More's escape from the Lord Advocate, and  started off straight to comfort Catriona.
You don't know her;  she's James More's daughter, and a respectable young wumman; the  Miss
Grants think so - the Lord Advocate's daughters - so there  can't be anything really wrong.
Pretty soon we all go to Holland,  and be hanged; thence to Dunkirk, and be damned; and the
tale  concludes in Paris, and be Poll-parrotted.  This is the last  authentic news.  You are
not a real hard-working novelist; not a  practical novelist; so you don't know the temptation
to let your  characters maunder.  Dumas did it, and lived.  But it is not war;  it ain't sportsmanlike,
and I have to be stopping their chatter all  the time.  Brown's appendix is great reading.

My only grief is that I can't Use the idolatrous occupant.

Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Blessing and praising you for a useful (though idolatrous) occupant  of Kensington.

Letter:  TO THE COUNTESS OF JERSEY

AUGUST 14, 1745.

TO MISS AMELIA BALFOUR - MY DEAR COUSIN, - We are going an  expedition to leeward on Tuesday
morning.  If a lady were perhaps  to be encountered on horseback - say, towards the Gasi-gasi
river -  about six A.M., I think we should have an episode somewhat after  the style of the
'45.  What a misfortune, my dear cousin, that you  should have arrived while your cousin Graham
was occupying my only  guest-chamber - for Osterley Park is not so large in Samoa as it  was
at home - but happily our friend Haggard has found a corner for  you!

The King over the Water - the Gasi-gasi water - will be pleased to  see the clan of Balfour
mustering so thick around his standard.

I have (one serious word) been so lucky as to get a really secret  interpreter, so all is for
the best in our little adventure into  the WAVERLEY NOVELS. - I am your affectionate cousin,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Observe the stealth with which I have blotted my signature, but we  must be political A OUTRANCE.

Letter:  TO THE COUNTESS OF JERSEY

MY DEAR COUSIN, - I send for your information a copy of my last  letter to the gentleman in
question.  'Tis thought more wise, in  consideration of the difficulty and peril of the enterprise,
that  we should leave the town in the afternoon, and by several  detachments.  If you would
start for a ride with the Master of  Haggard and Captain Lockhart of Lee, say at three o'clock
of the  afternoon, you would make some rencounters by the wayside which  might be agreeable
to your political opinions.  All present will be  staunch.

The Master of Haggard might extend his ride a little, and return  through the marsh and by
the nuns' house (I trust that has the  proper flavour), so as a little to diminish the effect
of  separation. - I remain, your affectionate cousin to command,

O TUSITALA.

P.S. - It is to be thought this present year of grace will be  historical.

Letter:  TO MRS. CHARLES FAIRCHILD

[VAILIMA, AUGUST 1892.]

MY DEAR MRS. FAIRCHILD, - Thank you a thousand times for your  letter.  You are the Angel of
(the sort of) Information (that I  care about); I appoint you successor to the newspaper press;
and I  beg of you, whenever you wish to gird at the age, or think the bugs  out of proportion
to the roses, or despair, or enjoy any cosmic or  epochal emotion, to sit down again and write
to the Hermit of  Samoa.  What do I think of it all?  Well, I love the romantic  solemnity
of youth; and even in this form, although not without  laughter, I have to love it still. 
They are such ducks!  But what  are they made of?  We were just as solemn as that about atheism
and  the stars and humanity; but we were all for belief anyway - we held  atheism and sociology
(of which none of us, nor indeed anybody,  knew anything) for a gospel and an iron rule of
life; and it was  lucky enough, or there would have been more windows broken.  What  is apt
to puzzle one at first sight in the New Youth is that, with  such rickety and risky problems
always at heart, they should not  plunge down a Niagara of Dissolution.  But let us remember
the high  practical timidity of youth.  I was a particularly brave boy - this  I think of myself,
looking back - and plunged into adventures and  experiments, and ran risks that it still surprises
me to recall.   But, dear me, what a fear I was in of that strange blind machinery  in the
midst of which I stood; and with what a compressed heart and  what empty lungs I would touch
a new crank and await developments!   I do not mean to say I do not fear life still; I do;
and that  terror (for an adventurer like myself) is still one of the chief  joys of living.

But it was different indeed while I was yet girt with the priceless  robes of inexperience;
then the fear was exquisite and infinite.   And so, when you see all these little Ibsens, who
seem at once so  dry and so excitable, and faint in swathes over a play (I suppose -  for a
wager) that would seem to me merely tedious, smile behind  your hand, and remember the little
dears are all in a blue funk.   It must be very funny, and to a spectator like yourself I almost
envy it.  But never get desperate; human nature is human nature;  and the Roman Empire, since
the Romans founded it and made our  European human nature what it is, bids fair to go on and
to be true  to itself.  These little bodies will all grow up and become men and  women, and
have heaps of fun; nay, and are having it now; and  whatever happens to the fashion of the
age, it makes no difference  - there are always high and brave and amusing lives to be lived;
and a change of key, however exotic, does not exclude melody.  Even  Chinamen, hard as we find
it to believe, enjoy being Chinese.  And  the Chinaman stands alone to be unthinkable; natural
enough, as the  representative of the only other great civilisation.  Take my  people here
at my doors; their life is a very good one; it is quite  thinkable, quite acceptable to us.
And the little dears will be  soon skating on the other foot; sooner or later, in each  generation,
the one-half of them at least begin to remember all the  material they had rejected when first
they made and nailed up their  little theory of life; and these become reactionaries or  conservatives,
and the ship of man begins to fill upon the other  tack.

Here is a sermon, by your leave!  It is your own fault, you have  amused and interested me
so much by your breath of the New Youth,  which comes to me from so far away, where I live
up here in my  mountain, and secret messengers bring me letters from rebels, and  the government
sometimes seizes them, and generally grumbles in its  beard that Stevenson should really be
deported.  O, my life is the  more lively, never fear!

It has recently been most amusingly varied by a visit from Lady  Jersey.  I took her over mysteriously
(under the pseudonym of my  cousin, Miss Amelia Balfour) to visit Mataafa, our rebel; and we
had great fun, and wrote a Ouida novel on our life here, in which  every author had to describe
himself in the Ouida glamour, and of  which - for the Jerseys intend printing it - I must let
you have a  copy.  My wife's chapter, and my description of myself, should, I  think, amuse
you.  But there were finer touches still; as when  Belle and Lady Jersey came out to brush
their teeth in front of the  rebel King's palace, and the night guard squatted opposite on
the  grass and watched the process; or when I and my interpreter, and  the King with his secretary,
mysteriously disappeared to conspire.  - Ever yours sincerely,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO GORDON BROWNE

VAILIMA, SAMOA, AUTUMN 1892. TO THE ARTIST WHO DID THE ILLUSTRATIONS TO 'UMA.'

DEAR SIR, - I only know you under the initials G. B., but you have  done some exceedingly spirited
and satisfactory illustrations to my  story THE BEACH OF FALESA, and I wish to write and thank
you  expressly for the care and talent shown.  Such numbers of people  can do good black and
whites!  So few can illustrate a story, or  apparently read it.  You have shown that you can
do both, and your  creation of Wiltshire is a real illumination of the text.  It was  exactly
so that Wiltshire dressed and looked, and you have the line  of his nose to a nicety.  His
nose is an inspiration.  Nor should I  forget to thank you for Case, particularly in his last
appearance.   It is a singular fact - which seems to point still more directly to  inspiration
in your case - that your missionary actually resembles  the flesh-and-blood person from whom
Mr. Tarleton was drawn.  The  general effect of the islands is all that could be wished; indeed
I  have but one criticism to make, that in the background of Case  taking the dollar from Mr.
Tarleton's head - head - not hand, as  the fools have printed it - the natives have a little
too much the  look of Africans.

But the great affair is that you have been to the pains to  illustrate my story instead of
making conscientious black and  whites of people sitting talking.  I doubt if you have left
unrepresented a single pictorial incident.  I am writing by this  mail to the editor in the
hopes that I may buy from him the  originals, and I am, dear sir, your very much obliged,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MISS MORSE

VAILIMA, SAMOAN ISLANDS, OCTOBER 7TH, 1892.

DEAR MADAM, - I have a great diffidence in answering your valued  letter.  It would be difficult
for me to express the feelings with  which I read it - and am now trying to re-read it as I
dictate  this.

You ask me to forgive what you say 'must seem a liberty,' and I  find that I cannot thank you
sufficiently or even find a word with  which to qualify your letter.  Dear Madam, such a communication
even the vainest man would think a sufficient reward for a lifetime  of labour.  That I should
have been able to give so much help and  pleasure to your sister is the subject of my grateful
wonder.

That she, being dead, and speaking with your pen, should be able to  repay the debt with such
a liberal interest, is one of those things  that reconcile us with the world and make us take
hope again.  I do  not know what I have done to deserve so beautiful and touching a  compliment;
and I feel there is but one thing fit for me to say  here, that I will try with renewed courage
to go on in the same  path, and to deserve, if not to receive, a similar return from  others.

You apologise for speaking so much about yourselves.  Dear Madam, I  thought you did so too
little.  I should have wished to have known  more of those who were so sympathetic as to find
a consolation in  my work, and so graceful and so tactful as to acknowledge it in  such a letter
as was yours.

Will you offer to your mother the expression of a sympathy which  (coming from a stranger)
must seem very airy, but which yet is  genuine; and accept for yourself my gratitude for the
thought which  inspired you to write to me and the words which you found to  express it.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

VAILIMA PLANTATION, SAMOAN ISLANDS, OCT. 10TH, 1892.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - It is now, as you see, the 10th of October,  and there has not reached
the Island of Upolu one single copy, or  rag of a copy, of the Samoa book.  I lie; there has
come one, and  that in the pocket of a missionary man who is at daggers drawn with  me, who
lends it to all my enemies, conceals it from all my  friends, and is bringing a lawsuit against
me on the strength of  expressions in the same which I have forgotten, and now cannot see.
This is pretty tragic, I think you will allow; and I was inclined  to fancy it was the fault
of the Post Office.  But I hear from my  sister-in-law Mrs. Sanchez that she is in the same
case, and has  received no 'Footnote.'  I have also to consider that I had no  letter from
you last mail, although you ought to have received by  that time 'My Grandfather and Scott,'
and 'Me and my Grandfather.'   Taking one consideration with another, therefore, I prefer to
conceive that No. 743 Broadway has fallen upon gentle and  continuous slumber, and is become
an enchanted palace among  publishing houses.  If it be not so, if the 'Footnotes' were really
sent, I hope you will fall upon the Post Office with all the vigour  you possess.  How does
THE WRECKER go in the States?  It seems to  be doing exceptionally well in England. - Yours
sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO J. M.  BARRIE

VAILIMA PLANTATION, SAMOAN ISLANDS, NOVEMBER 1ST, 1892.

DEAR MR. BARRIE, - I can scarce thank you sufficiently for your  extremely amusing letter.
No, THE AULD LICHT IDYLS never reached  me - I wish it had, and I wonder extremely whether
it would not be  good for me to have a pennyworth of the Auld Licht pulpit.

Your descriptions of your dealings with Lord Rintoul are  frightfully unconscientious.  You
should never write about anybody  until you persuade yourself at least for the moment that
you love  him, above all anybody on whom your plot revolves.  It will always  make a hole in
the book; and, if he has anything to do with the  mechanism, prove a stick in your machinery.
But you know all this  better than I do, and it is one of your most promising traits that 
you do not take your powers too seriously.  Suffice it to breathe in your ear that she was
what Hardy  calls (and others in their plain way don't) a Pure Woman.  Much  virtue in a capital
letter, such as yours was.

Write to me again in my infinite distance.  Tell me about your new  book.  No harm in telling
ME; I am too far off to be indiscreet;  there are too few near me who would care to hear. 
I am rushes by  the riverside, and the stream is in Babylon:  breathe your secrets  to me fearlessly;
and if the Trade Wind caught and carried them  away, there are none to catch them nearer than
Australia, unless it  were the Tropic Birds.  In the unavoidable absence of my  amanuensis,
who is buying eels for dinner, I have thus concluded my  despatch, like St. Paul, with my own hand.

And in the inimitable words of Lord Kames, Faur ye weel, ye bitch.  - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO E. L. BURLINGAME

VAILIMA PLANTATION, NOV. 2ND, 1892.

MY DEAR BURLINGAME, - In the first place, I have to acknowledge  receipt of your munificent
cheque for three hundred and fifty  dollars.  Glad you liked the Scott voyage; rather more
than I did  upon the whole.  As the proofs have not turned up at all, there can  be no question
of returning them, and I am therefore very much  pleased to think you have arranged not to
wait.  The volumes of  Adams arrived along with yours of October 6th.  One of the  dictionaries
has also blundered home, apparently from the Colonies;  the other is still to seek.  I note
and sympathise with your  bewilderment as to FALESA.  My own direct correspondence with Mr.
Baxter is now about three months in abeyance.  Altogether you see  how well it would be if
you could do anything to wake up the Post  Office.  Not a single copy of the 'Footnote' has
yet reached Samoa,  but I hear of one having come to its address in Hawaii.  Glad to  hear
good news of Stoddard. - Yours sincerely,

R. L. STEVENSON.

P.S. - Since the above was written an aftermath of post matter came  in, among which were the
proofs of MY GRANDFATHER.  I shall correct  and return them, but as I have lost all confidence
in the Post  Office, I shall mention here:  first galley, 4th line from the  bottom, for 'AS'
read 'OR.'

Should I ever again have to use my work without waiting for proofs,  bear in mind this golden
principle.  From a congenital defect, I  must suppose, I am unable to write the word OR - wherever
I write  it the printer unerringly puts AS - and those who read for me had  better, wherever
it is possible, substitute OR for AS.  This the  more so since many writers have a habit of
using AS which is death  to my temper and confusion to my face.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO LIEUTENANT EELES

VAILIMA PLANTATION, UPOLU, SAMOAN ISLANDS, NOVEMBER 15TH, 1892.

DEAR EELES, - In the first place, excuse me writing to you by  another hand, as that is the
way in which alone all my  correspondence gets effected.  Before I took to this method, or
rather before I found a victim, it SIMPLY didn't get effected.

Thank you again and again, first for your kind thought of writing  to me, and second for your
extremely amusing and interesting  letter.  You can have no guess how immediately interesting
it was  to our family.  First of all, the poor soul at Nukufetau is an old  friend of ours,
and we have actually treated him ourselves on a  former visit to the island.  I don't know
if Hoskin would approve  of our treatment; it consisted, I believe, mostly in a present of
stout and a recommendation to put nails in his water-tank.  We also  (as you seem to have done)
recommended him to leave the island; and  I remember very well how wise and kind we thought
his answer.  He  had half-caste children (he said) who would suffer and perhaps be  despised
if he carried them elsewhere; if he left them there alone,  they would almost certainly miscarry;
and the best thing was that  he should stay and die with them.  But the cream of the fun was
your meeting with Burn.  We not only know him, but (as the French  say) we don't know anybody
else; he is our intimate and adored  original; and - prepare your mind - he was, is, and ever
will be,  TOMMY HADDON!  As I don't believe you to be inspired, I suspect you  to have suspected
this.  At least it was a mighty happy suspicion.   You are quite right:  Tommy is really 'a
good chap,' though about  as comic as they make them.

I was extremely interested in your Fiji legend, and perhaps even  more so in your capital account
of the CURACOA'S misadventure.   Alas! we have nothing so thrilling to relate.  All hangs and
fools  on in this isle of misgovernment, without change, though not  without novelty, but wholly
without hope, unless perhaps you should  consider it hopeful that I am still more immediately
threatened  with arrest.  The confounded thing is, that if it comes off, I  shall be sent away
in the Ringarooma instead of the CURACOA.  The  former ship burst upon by the run - she had
been sent off by  despatch and without orders - and to make me a little more easy in  my mind
she brought newspapers clamouring for my incarceration.   Since then I have had a conversation
with the German Consul.  He  said he had read a review of my Samoa book, and if the review
were  fair, must regard it as an insult, and one that would have to be  resented.  At the same
time, I learn that letters addressed to the  German squadron lie for them here in the Post
Office.  Reports are  current of other English ships being on the way - I hope to  goodness
yours will be among the number.  And I gather from one  thing and another that there must be
a holy row going on between  the powers at home, and that the issue (like all else connected
with Samoa) is on the knees of the gods.  One thing, however, is  pretty sure - if that issue
prove to be a German Protectorate, I  shall have to tramp.  Can you give us any advice as to
a fresh  field of energy?  We have been searching the atlas, and it seems  difficult to fill
the bill.  How would Rarotonga do?  I forget if  you have been there.  The best of it is that
my new house is going  up like winking, and I am dictating this letter to the  accompaniment
of saws and hammers.  A hundred black boys and about  a score draught-oxen perished, or at
least barely escaped with  their lives, from the mud-holes on our road, bringing up the  materials.
It will be a fine legacy to H.I.G.M.'s Protectorate,  and doubtless the Governor will take
it for his country-house.  The  Ringarooma people, by the way, seem very nice.  I liked Stansfield
particularly.

Our middy has gone up to San Francisco in pursuit of the phantom  Education.  We have good
word of him, and I hope he will not be in  disgrace again, as he was when the hope of the British
Navy - need  I say that I refer to Admiral Burney? - honoured us last.  The next  time you
come, as the new house will be finished, we shall be able  to offer you a bed.  Nares and Meiklejohn
may like to hear that our  new room is to be big enough to dance in.  It will be a very  pleasant
day for me to see the Curacoa in port again and at least a  proper contingent of her officers
'skipping in my 'all.'

We have just had a feast on my birthday at which we had three of  the Ringaromas, and I wish
they had been three CURACOAS - say  yourself, Hoskin, and Burney the ever Great.  (Consider
this an  invitation.)  Our boys had got the thing up regardless.  There were  two huge sows
- oh, brutes of animals that would have broken down a  hansom cab - four smaller pigs, two
barrels of beef, and a horror  of vegetables and fowls.  We sat down between forty and fifty
in a  big new native house behind the kitchen that you have never seen,  and ate and public
spoke till all was blue.  Then we had about half  an hour's holiday with some beer and sherry
and brandy and soda to  restrengthen the European heart, and then out to the old native  house
to see a siva.  Finally, all the guests were packed off in a  trackless black night and down
a road that was rather fitted for  the CURACOA than any human pedestrian, though to be sure
I do not  know the draught of the CURACOA.  My ladies one and all desire to  be particularly
remembered to our friends on board, and all look  forward, as I do myself, in the hope of your
return. - Yours  sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

And let me hear from you again!

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

1ST DEC. '92.

. . .

[LATER.]

Second thought.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. JENKIN

DECEMBER 5TH, 1892.

MY DEAR MRS. JENKIN, - . . . So much said, I come with guilty speed  to what more immediately
concerns myself.  Spare us a month or two  for old sake's sake, and make my wife and me happy
and proud.  We  are only fourteen days from San Francisco, just about a month from  Liverpool;
we have our new house almost finished.  The thing CAN be  done; I believe we can make you almost
comfortable.  It is the  loveliest climate in the world, our political troubles seem near an
end.  It can be done, it must!  Do, please, make a virtuous effort,  come and take a glimpse
of a new world I am sure you do not dream  of, and some old friends who do often dream of your
arrival.

Alas, I was just beginning to get eloquent, and there goes the  lunch bell, and after lunch
I must make up the mail.

Do come.  You must not come in February or March - bad months.   From April on it is delightful.
- Your sincere friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

DECEMBER 5TH, 1892.

MY DEAR JAMES, - How comes it so great a silence has fallen?  The  still small voice of self-approval
whispers me it is not from me.   I have looked up my register, and find I have neither written
to  you nor heard from you since June 22nd, on which day of grace that  invaluable work began.
This is not as it should be.  How to get  back?  I remember acknowledging with rapture the
- of the MASTER,  and I remember receiving MARBOT:  was that our last relation?

Hey, well! anyway, as you may have probably gathered from the  papers, I have been in devilish
hot water, and (what may be new to  you) devilish hard at work.  In twelve calendar months
I finished  THE WRECKER, wrote all of FALESA but the first chapter (well, much  of), the HISTORY
OF SAMOA, did something here and there to my LIFE  OF MY GRANDFATHER, and began And Finished
DAVID BALFOUR.  What do  you think of it for a year?  Since then I may say I have done  nothing
beyond draft three chapters of another novel, THE JUSTICE- CLERK, which ought to be shorter
and a blower - at least if it  don't make a spoon, it will spoil the horn of an Aurochs (if
that's  how it should be spelt).

On the hot water side it may entertain you to know that I have been  actually sentenced to
deportation by my friends on Mulinuu, C. J.  Cedercrantz, and Baron Senfft von Pilsach.  The
awful doom,  however, declined to fall, owing to Circumstances over Which.  I  only heard of
it (so to speak) last night.  I mean officially, but  I had walked among rumours.  The whole
tale will be some day put  into my hand, and I shall share it with humorous friends.

It is likely, however, by my judgment, that this epoch of gaiety in  Samoa will soon cease;
and the fierce white light of history will  beat no longer on Yours Sincerely and his fellows
here on the  beach.  We ask ourselves whether the reason will more rejoice over  the end of
a disgraceful business, or the unregenerate man more  sorrow over the stoppage of the fun.
For, say what you please, it  has been a deeply interesting time.  You don't know what news
is,  nor what politics, nor what the life of man, till you see it on so  small a scale and
with your own liberty on the board for stake.  I  would not have missed it for much.  And anxious
friends beg me to  stay at home and study human nature in Brompton drawing-rooms!   FARCEURS!
And anyway you know that such is not my talent.  I could  never be induced to take the faintest
interest in Brompton QUA  Brompton or a drawing-room QUA a drawing-room.  I am an Epick  Writer
with a k to it, but without the necessary genius.

Hurry up with another book of stories.  I am now reduced to two of  my contemporaries, you
and Barrie - O, and Kipling - you and Barrie  and Kipling are now my Muses Three.  And with
Kipling, as you know,  there are reservations to be made.  And you and Barrie don't write 
enough.  I should say I also read Anstey when he is serious, and  can almost always get a happy
day out of Marion Crawford - CE N'EST  PAS TOUJOURS LA GUERRE, but it's got life to it and
guts, and it  moves.  Did you read the WITCH OF PRAGUE?  Nobody could read it  twice, of course;
and the first time even it was necessary to skip.   E PUR SI MUOVE.  But Barrie is a beauty,
the LITTLE MINISTER and  the WINDOW IN THRUMS, eh?  Stuff in that young man; but he must see
and not be too funny.  Genius in him, but there's a journalist at  his elbow - there's the
risk.  Look, what a page is the glove  business in the WINDOW! knocks a man flat; that's guts,
if you  please.

Why have I wasted the little time that is left with a sort of naked  review article?  I don't
know, I'm sure.  I suppose a mere  ebullition of congested literary talk I am beginning to
think a  visit from friends would be due.  Wish you could come!

Let us have your news anyway, and forgive this silly stale  effusion. - Yours ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO J. M. BARRIE

[VAILIMA, DECEMBER 1892.]

DEAR J. M. BARRIE, - You will be sick of me soon; I cannot help it.   I have been off my work
for some time, and re-read the EDINBURGH  ELEVEN, and had a great mind to write a parody and
give you all  your sauce back again, and see how you would like it yourself.  And  then I read
(for the first time - I know not how) the WINDOW IN  THRUMS; I don't say that it is better
than THE MINISTER; it's less  of a tale - and there is a beauty, a material beauty, of the
tale  IPSE, which clever critics nowadays long and love to forget; it has  more real flaws;
but somehow it is - well, I read it last anyway,  and it's by Barrie.  And he's the man for
my money.  The glove is a  great page; it is startlingly original, and as true as death and
judgment.  Tibbie Birse in the Burial is great, but I think it was  a journalist that got in
the word 'official.'  The same character  plainly had a word to say to Thomas Haggard.  Thomas
affects me as  a lie - I beg your pardon; doubtless he was somebody you knew, that  leads people
so far astray.  The actual is not the true.

I am proud to think you are a Scotchman - though to be sure I know  nothing of that country,
being only an English tourist, quo' Gavin  Ogilvy.  I commend the hard case of Mr. Gavin Ogilvy
to J. M.  Barrie, whose work is to me a source of living pleasure and  heartfelt national pride.
There are two of us now that the Shirra  might have patted on the head.  And please do not
think when I thus  seem to bracket myself with you, that I am wholly blinded with  vanity.
Jess is beyond my frontier line; I could not touch her  skirt; I have no such glamour of twilight
on my pen.  I am a  capable artist; but it begins to look to me as if you were a man of  genius.
Take care of yourself, for my sake.  It's a devilish hard  thing for a man who writes so many
novels as I do, that I should  get so few to read.  And I can read yours, and I love them.

A pity for you that my amanuensis is not on stock to-day, and my  own hand perceptibly worse
than usual. - Yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

DECEMBER 5TH, 1892.

P.S. - They tell me your health is not strong.  Man, come out here  and try the Prophet's chamber.
There's only one bad point to us -  we do rise early.  The Amanuensis states that you are a
lover of  silence - and that ours is a noisy house - and she is a chatterbox  - I am not answerable
for these statements, though I do think there  is a touch of garrulity about my premises. 
We have so little to  talk about, you see.  The house is three miles from town, in the  midst
of great silent forests.  There is a burn close by, and when  we are not talking you can hear
the burn, and the birds, and the  sea breaking on the coast three miles away and six hundred
feet  below us, and about three times a month a bell - I don't know where  the bell is, nor
who rings it; it may be the bell in Hans  Andersen's story for all I know.  It is never hot
here - 86 in the  shade is about our hottest - and it is never cold except just in  the early
mornings.  Take it for all in all, I suppose this island  climate to be by far the healthiest
in the world - even the  influenza entirely lost its sting.  Only two patients died, and one
was a man nearly eighty, and the other a child below four months.   I won't tell you if it
is beautiful, for I want you to come here  and see for yourself.  Everybody on the premises
except my wife has  some Scotch blood in their veins - I beg your pardon - except the  natives
- and then my wife is a Dutchwoman - and the natives are  the next thing conceivable to Highlanders
before the forty-five.   We would have some grand cracks!

R. L. S.

COME, it will broaden your mind, and be the making of me.

CHAPTER XII - LIFE IN SAMOA, CONTINUED, JANUARY 1893-DECEMBER 1894

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[APRIL, 1893.]

. . . About THE JUSTICE-CLERK, I long to go at it, but will first  try to get a short story
done.  Since January I have had two severe  illnesses, my boy, and some heart-breaking anxiety
over Fanny; and  am only now convalescing.  I came down to dinner last night for the  first
time, and that only because the service had broken down, and  to relieve an inexperienced servant.
Nearly four months now I have  rested my brains; and if it be true that rest is good for brains,
I  ought to be able to pitch in like a giant refreshed.  Before the  autumn, I hope to send
you some JUSTICE-CLERK, or WEIR OF  HERMISTON, as Colvin seems to prefer; I own to indecision.
Received SYNTAX, DANCE OF DEATH, and PITCAIRN, which last I have  read from end to end since
its arrival, with vast improvement.   What a pity it stops so soon!  I wonder is there nothing
that seems  to prolong the series?  Why doesn't some young man take it up?  How  about my old
friend Fountainhall's DECISIONS?  I remember as a boy  that there was some good reading there.
Perhaps you could borrow  me that, and send it on loan; and perhaps Laing's MEMORIALS  therewith;
and a work I'm ashamed to say I have never read,  BALFOUR'S LETTERS. . . . I have come by accident,
through a  correspondent, on one very curious and interesting fact - namely,  that Stevenson
was one of the names adopted by the MacGregors at  the proscription.  The details supplied
by my correspondent are  both convincing and amusing; but it would be highly interesting to
find out more of this.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO A. CONAN DOYLE

VAILIMA, APIA, SAMOA, APRIL 5TH, 1893.

DEAR SIR, - You have taken many occasions to make yourself very  agreeable to me, for which
I might in decency have thanked you  earlier.  It is now my turn; and I hope you will allow
me to offer  you my compliments on your very ingenious and very interesting  adventures of
Sherlock Holmes.  That is the class of literature  that I like when I have the toothache. 
As a matter of fact, it was  a pleurisy I was enjoying when I took the volume up; and it will
interest you as a medical man to know that the cure was for the  moment effectual.  Only the
one thing troubles me:  can this be my  old friend Joe Bell? - I am, yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - And lo, here is your address supplied me here in Samoa!  But  do not take mine, O frolic
fellow Spookist, from the same source;  mine is wrong.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO S. R. CROCKETT

VAILIMA, SAMOA, MAY 17TH, 1893.

DEAR MR. CROCKETT, - I do not owe you two letters, nor yet nearly  one, sir!  The last time
I heard of you, you wrote about an  accident, and I sent you a letter to my lawyer, Charles
Baxter,  which does not seem to have been presented, as I see nothing of it  in his accounts.
Query, was that lost?  I should not like you to  think I had been so unmannerly and so inhuman.
If you have written  since, your letter also has miscarried, as is much the rule in this  part
of the world, unless you register.

Your book is not yet to hand, but will probably follow next month.   I detected you early in
the BOOKMAN, which I usually see, and noted  you in particular as displaying a monstrous ingratitude
about the  footnote.  Well, mankind is ungrateful; 'Man's ingratitude to man  makes countless
thousands mourn,' quo' Rab - or words to that  effect.  By the way, an anecdote of a cautious
sailor:  'Bill,  Bill,' says I to him, 'OR WORDS TO THAT EFFECT.'

I shall never take that walk by the Fisher's Tryst and Glencorse.   I shall never see Auld
Reekie.  I shall never set my foot again  upon the heather.  Here I am until I die, and here
will I be  buried.  The word is out and the doom written.  Or, if I do come,  it will be a
voyage to a further goal, and in fact a suicide;  which, however, if I could get my family
all fixed up in the money  way, I might, perhaps, perform, or attempt.  But there is a plaguey
risk of breaking down by the way; and I believe I shall stay here  until the end comes like
a good boy, as I am.  If I did it, I  should put upon my trunks:  'Passenger to - Hades.' 
How strangely  wrong your information is!  In the first place, I should never  carry a novel
to Sydney; I should post it from here.  In the second  place, WEIR OF HERMISTON is as yet scarce
begun.  It's going to be  excellent, no doubt; but it consists of about twenty pages.  I have
a tale, a shortish tale in length, but it has proved long to do,  THE EBB TIDE, some part of
which goes home this mail.  It is by me  and Mr. Osbourne, and is really a singular work. 
There are only  four characters, and three of them are bandits - well, two of them  are, and
the third is their comrade and accomplice.  It sounds  cheering, doesn't it?  Barratry, and
drunkenness, and vitriol, and  I cannot tell you all what, are the beams of the roof.  And
yet - I  don't know - I sort of think there's something in it.  You'll see  (which is more
than I ever can) whether Davis and Attwater come off  or not.

WEIR OF HERMISTON is a much greater undertaking, and the plot is  not good, I fear; but Lord
Justice-Clerk Hermiston ought to be a  plum.  Of other schemes, more or less executed, it skills
not to  speak.

I am glad to hear so good an account of your activity and  interests, and shall always hear
from you with pleasure; though I  am, and must continue, a mere sprite of the inkbottle, unseen
in  the flesh.  Please remember me to your wife and to the four-year- old sweetheart, if she
be not too engrossed with higher matters.   Do you know where the road crosses the burn under
Glencorse Church?   Go there, and say a prayer for me:  MORITURUS SALUTAT.  See that  it's
a sunny day; I would like it to be a Sunday, but that's not  possible in the premises; and
stand on the right-hand bank just  where the road goes down into the water, and shut your eyes,
and if  I don't appear to you! well, it can't be helped, and will be  extremely funny.

I have no concern here but to work and to keep an eye on this  distracted people.  I live just
now wholly alone in an upper room  of my house, because the whole family are down with influenza,
bar  my wife and myself.  I get my horse up sometimes in the afternoon  and have a ride in
the woods; and I sit here and smoke and write,  and rewrite, and destroy, and rage at my own
impotence, from six in  the morning till eight at night, with trifling and not always  agreeable
intervals for meals.

I am sure you chose wisely to keep your country charge.  There a  minister can be something,
not in a town.  In a town, the most of  them are empty houses - and public speakers.  Why should
you  suppose your book will be slated because you have no friends?  A  new writer, if he is
any good, will be acclaimed generally with  more noise than he deserves.  But by this time
you will know for  certain. - I am, yours sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - Be it known to this fluent generation that I R. L. S., in  the forty-third of my age
and the twentieth of my professional  life, wrote twenty-four pages in twenty-one days, working
from six  to eleven, and again in the afternoon from two to four or so,  without fail or interruption.
Such are the gifts the gods have  endowed us withal:  such was the facility of this prolific
writer!

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO AUGUSTUS ST. GAUDENS

VAILIMA, SAMOA, MAY 29TH, 1893

MY DEAR GOD-LIKE SCULPTOR, - I wish in the most delicate manner in  the world to insinuate
a few commissions:-

No. 1. Is for a couple of copies of my medallion, as gilt-edged and  high-toned as it is possible
to make them.  One is for our house  here, and should be addressed as above.  The other is
for my friend  Sidney Colvin, and should be addressed - Sidney Colvin, Esq.,  Keeper of the
Print Room, British Museum, London.

No. 2. This is a rather large order, and demands some explanation.   Our house is lined with
varnished wood of a dark ruddy colour, very  beautiful to see; at the same time, it calls very
much for gold;  there is a limit to picture frames, and really you know there has  to be a
limit to the pictures you put inside of them.  Accordingly,  we have had an idea of a certain
kind of decoration, which, I  think, you might help us to make practical.  What we want is
an  alphabet of gilt letters (very much such as people play with), and  all mounted on spikes
like drawing-pins; say two spikes to each  letter, one at top, and one at bottom.  Say that
they were this  height,

               I
               I
               I

and that you chose a model of some really exquisitely fine, clear  type from some Roman monument,
and that they were made either of  metal or some composition gilt - the point is, could not
you, in  your land of wooden houses, get a manufacturer to take the idea and  manufacture them
at a venture, so that I could get two or three  hundred pieces or so at a moderate figure?
You see, suppose you  entertain an honoured guest, when he goes he leaves his name in  gilt
letters on your walls; an infinity of fun and decoration can  be got out of hospitable and
festive mottoes; and the doors of  every room can be beautified by the legend of their names.
I  really think there is something in the idea, and you might be able  to push it with the
brutal and licentious manufacturer, using my  name if necessary, though I should think the
name of the god-like  sculptor would be more germane.  In case you should get it started, 
I should tell you that we should require commas in order to write  the Samoan language, which
is full of words written thus:  la'u,  ti'e ti'e.  As the Samoan language uses but a very small
proportion  of the consonants, we should require a double or treble stock of  all vowels and
of F, G, L, U, N, P, S, T, and V.

The other day in Sydney, I think you might be interested to hear, I  was sculpt a second time
by a man called -, as well as I can  remember and read.  I mustn't criticise a present, and
he had very  little time to do it in.  It is thought by my family to be an  excellent likeness
of Mark Twain.  This poor fellow, by the by, met  with the devil of an accident.  A model of
a statue which he had  just finished with a desperate effort was smashed to smithereens on
its way to exhibition.

Please be sure and let me know if anything is likely to come of  this letter business, and
the exact cost of each letter, so that I  may count the cost before ordering. - Yours sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

JUNE 10TH, 1893.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - My mother tells me you never received the very  long and careful letter that
I sent you more than a year ago; or is  it two years?

I was indeed so much surprised at your silence that I wrote to  Henry James and begged him
to inquire if you had received it; his  reply was an (if possible) higher power of the same
silence;  whereupon I bowed my head and acquiesced.  But there is no doubt  the letter was
written and sent; and I am sorry it was lost, for it  contained, among other things, an irrecoverable
criticism of your  father's LIFE, with a number of suggestions for another edition,  which
struck me at the time as excellent.

Well, suppose we call that cried off, and begin as before?  It is  fortunate indeed that we
can do so, being both for a while longer  in the day.  But, alas! when I see 'works of the
late J. A. S.,'  I  can see no help and no reconciliation possible.  I wrote him a  letter,
I think, three years ago, heard in some roundabout way that  he had received it, waited in
vain for an answer (which had  probably miscarried), and in a humour between frowns and smiles
wrote to him no more.  And now the strange, poignant, pathetic,  brilliant creature is gone
into the night, and the voice is silent  that uttered so much excellent discourse; and I am
sorry that I did  not write to him again.  Yet I am glad for him; light lie the turf!   The
SATURDAY is the only obituary I have seen, and I thought it  very good upon the whole.  I should
be half tempted to write an IN  MEMORIAM, but I am submerged with other work.  Are you going
to do  it?  I very much admire your efforts that way; you are our only  academician.

So you have tried fiction?  I will tell you the truth:  when I saw  it announced, I was so
sure you would send it to me, that I did not  order it!  But the order goes this mail, and
I will give you news  of it.  Yes, honestly, fiction is very difficult; it is a terrible  strain
to CARRY your characters all that time.  And the difficulty  of according the narrative and
the dialogue (in a work in the third  person) is extreme.  That is one reason out of half a
dozen why I  so often prefer the first.  It is much in my mind just now, because  of my last
work, just off the stocks three days ago, THE EBB TIDE:   a dreadful, grimy business in the
third person, where the strain  between a vilely realistic dialogue and a narrative style pitched
about (in phrase) 'four notes higher' than it should have been, has  sown my head with grey
hairs; or I believe so - if my head escaped,  my heart has them.

The truth is, I have a little lost my way, and stand bemused at the  cross-roads.  A subject?
Ay, I have dozens; I have at least four  novels begun, they are none good enough; and the mill
waits, and  I'll have to take second best.  THE EBB TIDE I make the world a  present of; I
expect, and, I suppose, deserve to be torn to pieces;  but there was all that good work lying
useless, and I had to finish  it!

All your news of your family is pleasant to hear.  My wife has been  very ill, but is now better;
I may say I am ditto, THE EBB TIDE  having left me high and dry, which is a good example of
the mixed  metaphor.  Our home, and estate, and our boys, and the politics of  the island,
keep us perpetually amused and busy; and I grind away  with an odd, dogged, down sensation
- and an idea IN PETTO that the  game is about played out.  I have got too realistic, and I
must  break the trammels - I mean I would if I could; but the yoke is  heavy.  I saw with amusement
that Zola says the same thing; and  truly the DEBACLE was a mighty big book, I have no need
for a  bigger, though the last part is a mere mistake in my opinion.  But  the Emperor, and
Sedan, and the doctor at the ambulance, and the  horses in the field of battle, Lord, how gripped
it is!  What an  epical performance!  According to my usual opinion, I believe I  could go
over that book and leave a masterpiece by blotting and no  ulterior art.  But that is an old
story, ever new with me.  Taine  gone, and Renan, and Symonds, and Tennyson, and Browning;
the suns  go swiftly out, and I see no suns to follow, nothing but a  universal twilight of
the demi-divinities, with parties like you  and me and Lang beating on toy drums and playing
on penny whistles  about glow-worms.  But Zola is big anyway; he has plenty in his  belly;
too much, that is all; he wrote the DEBACLE and he wrote LA  BETE HUMAINE, perhaps the most
excruciatingly silly book that I  ever read to an end.  And why did I read it to an end, W.
E. G.?   Because the animal in me was interested in the lewdness.  Not  sincerely, of course,
my mind refusing to partake in it; but the  flesh was slightly pleased.  And when it was done,
I cast it from  me with a peal of laughter, and forgot it, as I would forget a  Montepin. 
Taine is to me perhaps the chief of these losses; I did  luxuriate in his ORIGINES; it was
something beyond literature, not  quite so good, if you please, but so much more systematic,
and the  pages that had to be 'written' always so adequate.  Robespierre,  Napoleon, were both
excellent good.

JUNE 18TH, '93

Well, I have left fiction wholly, and gone to my GRANDFATHER, and  on the whole found peace.
By next month my GRANDFATHER will begin  to be quite grown up.  I have already three chapters
about as good  as done; by which, of course, as you know, I mean till further  notice or the
next discovery.  I like biography far better than  fiction myself:  fiction is too free.  In
biography you have your  little handful of facts, little bits of a puzzle, and you sit and
think, and fit 'em together this way and that, and get up and throw  'em down, and say damn,
and go out for a walk.  And it's real  soothing; and when done, gives an idea of finish to
the writer that  is very peaceful.  Of course, it's not really so finished as quite  a rotten
novel; it always has and always must have the incurable  illogicalities of life about it, the
fathoms of slack and the miles  of tedium.  Still, that's where the fun comes in; and when
you have  at last managed to shut up the castle spectre (dulness), the very  outside of his
door looks beautiful by contrast.  There are pages  in these books that may seem nothing to
the reader; but you  REMEMBER WHAT THEY WERE, YOU KNOW WHAT THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN, and  they
seem to you witty beyond comparison.  In my GRANDFATHER I've  had (for instance) to give up
the temporal order almost entirely;  doubtless the temporal order is the great foe of the biographer;
it  is so tempting, so easy, and lo! there you are in the bog! - Ever  yours,

R. L. STEVENSON.

With all kind messages from self and wife to you and yours.  My  wife is very much better,
having been the early part of this year  alarmingly ill.  She is now all right, only complaining
of trifles,  annoying to her, but happily not interesting to her friends.  I am  in a hideous
state, having stopped drink and smoking; yes, both.   No wine, no tobacco; and the dreadful
part of it is that - looking  forward - I have - what shall I say? - nauseating intimations
that  it ought to be for ever.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

VAILIMA PLANTATION, SAMOAN ISLANDS, JUNE 17TH, 1893.

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES, - I believe I have neglected a mail in  answering yours.  You will be
very sorry to hear that my wife was  exceedingly ill, and very glad to hear that she is better.
I  cannot say that I feel any more anxiety about her.  We shall send  you a photograph of her
taken in Sydney in her customary island  habit as she walks and gardens and shrilly drills
her brown  assistants.  She was very ill when she sat for it, which may a  little explain the
appearance of the photograph.  It reminds me of  a friend of my grandmother's who used to say
when talking to  younger women, 'Aweel, when I was young, I wasnae just exactly what  ye wad
call BONNY, but I was pale, penetratin', and interestin'.'   I would not venture to hint that
Fanny is 'no bonny,' but there is  no doubt but that in this presentment she is 'pale, penetratin',
and interesting.'

As you are aware, I have been wading deep waters and contending  with the great ones of the
earth, not wholly without success.  It  is, you may be interested to hear, a dreary and infuriating
business.  If you can get the fools to admit one thing, they will  always save their face by
denying another.  If you can induce them  to take a step to the right hand, they generally
indemnify  themselves by cutting a caper to the left.  I always held (upon no  evidence whatever,
from a mere sentiment or intuition) that  politics was the dirtiest, the most foolish, and
the most random of  human employments.  I always held, but now I know it!  Fortunately,  you
have nothing to do with anything of the kind, and I may spare  you the horror of further details.

I received from you a book by a man by the name of Anatole France.   Why should I disguise
it?  I have no use for Anatole.  He writes  very prettily, and then afterwards?  Baron Marbot
was a different  pair of shoes.  So likewise is the Baron de Vitrolles, whom I am  now perusing
with delight.  His escape in 1814 is one of the best  pages I remember anywhere to have read.
But Marbot and Vitrolles  are dead, and what has become of the living?  It seems as if  literature
were coming to a stand.  I am sure it is with me; and I  am sure everybody will say so when
they have the privilege of  reading THE EBB TIDE.  My dear man, the grimness of that story
is  not to be depicted in words.  There are only four characters, to be  sure, but they are
such a troop of swine!  And their behaviour is  really so deeply beneath any possible standard,
that on a  retrospect I wonder I have been able to endure them myself until  the yarn was finished.
Well, there is always one thing; it will  serve as a touchstone.  If the admirers of Zola admire
him for his  pertinent ugliness and pessimism, I think they should admire this;  but if, as
I have long suspected, they neither admire nor  understand the man's art, and only wallow in
his rancidness like a  hound in offal, then they will certainly be disappointed in THE EBB
TIDE.  ALAS! poor little tale, it is not EVEN rancid.

By way of an antidote or febrifuge, I am going on at a great rate  with my HISTORY OF THE STEVENSONS,
which I hope may prove rather  amusing, in some parts at least.  The excess of materials weighs
upon me.  My grandfather is a delightful comedy part; and I have to  treat him besides as a
serious and (in his way) a heroic figure,  and at times I lose my way, and I fear in the end
will blur the  effect.  However, A LA GRACE DE DIEU!  I'll make a spoon or spoil a  horn. 
You see, I have to do the Building of the Bell Rock by  cutting down and packing my grandsire's
book, which I rather hope I  have done, but do not know.  And it makes a huge chunk of a very
different style and quality between Chapters II. and IV.  And it  can't be helped!  It is just
a delightful and exasperating  necessity.  You know, the stuff is really excellent narrative:
only, perhaps there's too much of it!  There is the rub.  Well,  well, it will be plain to
you that my mind is affected; it might be  with less.  THE EBB TIDE and NORTHERN LIGHTS are
a full meal for  any plain man.

I have written and ordered your last book, THE REAL THING, so be  sure and don't send it. 
What else are you doing or thinking of  doing?  News I have none, and don't want any.  I have
had to stop  all strong drink and all tobacco, and am now in a transition state  between the
two, which seems to be near madness.  You never smoked,  I think, so you can never taste the
joys of stopping it.  But at  least you have drunk, and you can enter perhaps into my annoyance
when I suddenly find a glass of claret or a brandy-and-water give  me a splitting headache
the next morning.  No mistake about it;  drink anything, and there's your headache.  Tobacco
just as bad for  me.  If I live through this breach of habit, I shall be a white- livered puppy
indeed.  Actually I am so made, or so twisted, that I  do not like to think of a life without
the red wine on the table  and the tobacco with its lovely little coal of fire.  It doesn't
amuse me from a distance.  I may find it the Garden of Eden when I  go in, but I don't like
the colour of the gate-posts.  Suppose  somebody said to you, you are to leave your home, and
your books,  and your clubs, and go out and camp in mid-Africa, and command an  expedition,
you would howl, and kick, and flee.  I think the same  of a life without wine and tobacco;
and if this goes on, I've got  to go and do it, sir, in the living flesh!

I thought Bourget was a friend of yours?  And I thought the French  were a polite race?  He
has taken my dedication with a stately  silence that has surprised me into apoplexy.  Did I
go and dedicate  my book to the nasty alien, and the 'norrid Frenchman, and the  Bloody Furrineer?
Well, I wouldn't do it again; and unless his  case is susceptible of explanation, you might
perhaps tell him so  over the walnuts and the wine, by way of speeding the gay hours.   Sincerely,
I thought my dedication worth a letter.

If anything be worth anything here below!  I expected (rather) to find a gold watch and  chain;
I expected to be able to smoke to excess and drink to  comfort all the days of my life; and
I am still indignantly staring  on this button!  It's not even a button; it's a teetotal badge!
-  Ever yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

APIA, JULY 1893.

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES, - Yes.  LES TROPHEES, on the whole, a book.   It is excellent; but is
it a life's work?  I always suspect YOU of  a volume of sonnets up your sleeve; when is it
coming down?  I am  in one of my moods of wholesale impatience with all fiction and all  verging
on it, reading instead, with rapture, FOUNTAINHALL'S  DECISIONS.  You never read it:  well,
it hasn't much form, and is  inexpressibly dreary, I should suppose, to others - and even to
me  for pages.  It's like walking in a mine underground, and with a  damned bad lantern, and
picking out pieces of ore.  This, and war,  will be my excuse for not having read your (doubtless)
charming  work of fiction.  The revolving year will bring me round to it; and  I know, when
fiction shall begin to feel a little SOLID to me  again, that I shall love it, because it's
James.  Do you know, when  I am in this mood, I would rather try to read a bad book?  It's
not  so disappointing, anyway.  And FOUNTAINHALL is prime, two big folio  volumes, and all
dreary, and all true, and all as terse as an  obituary; and about one interesting fact on an
average in twenty  pages, and ten of them unintelligible for technicalities.  There's  literature,
if you like!  It feeds; it falls about you genuine like  rain.  Rain:  nobody has done justice
to rain in literature yet:   surely a subject for a Scot.  But then you can't do rain in that
ledger-book style that I am trying for - or between a ledger-book  and an old ballad.  How
to get over, how to escape from, the  besotting PARTICULARITY of fiction.  'Roland approached
the house;  it had green doors and window blinds; and there was a scraper on  the upper step.'
To hell with Roland and the scraper! - Yours  ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO A. CONAN DOYLE

VAILIMA, JULY 12, 1893.

MY DEAR DR. CONAN DOYLE, - The WHITE COMPANY has not yet turned up;  but when it does - which
I suppose will be next mail - you shall  hear news of me.  I have a great talent for compliment,
accompanied  by a hateful, even a diabolic frankness.

Delighted to hear I have a chance of seeing you and Mrs. Doyle;  Mrs. Stevenson bids me say
(what is too true) that our rations are  often spare.  Are you Great Eaters?  Please reply.

As to ways and means, here is what you will have to do.  Leave San  Francisco by the down mail,
get off at Samoa, and twelve days or a  fortnight later, you can continue your journey to Auckland
per  Upolu, which will give you a look at Tonga and possibly Fiji by the  way.  Make this a
FIRST PART OF YOUR PLANS.  A fortnight, even of  Vailima diet, could kill nobody.

We are in the midst of war here; rather a nasty business, with the  head-taking; and there
seem signs of other trouble.  But I believe  you need make no change in your design to visit
us.  All should be  well over; and if it were not, why! you need not leave the steamer.  -
Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

19TH JULY '93.

. . . We are in the thick of war - see ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS - we  have only two outside
boys left to us.  Nothing is doing, and PER  CONTRA little paying. . .  My life here is dear;
but I can live  within my income for a time at least - so long as my prices keep up  - and
it seems a clear duty to waste none of it on gadding about. .  . .  My life of my family fills
up intervals, and should be an  excellent book when it is done, but big, damnably big.

My dear old man, I perceive by a thousand signs that we grow old,  and are soon to pass away!
I hope with dignity; if not, with  courage at least.  I am myself very ready; or would be -
will be -  when I have made a little money for my folks.  The blows that have  fallen upon
you are truly terrifying; I wish you strength to bear  them.  It is strange, I must seem to
you to blaze in a Birmingham  prosperity and happiness; and to myself I seem a failure.  The
truth is, I have never got over the last influenza yet, and am  miserably out of heart and
out of kilter.  Lungs pretty right,  stomach nowhere, spirits a good deal overshadowed; but
we'll come  through it yet, and cock our bonnets.  (I confess with sorrow that  I am not yet
quite sure about the INTELLECTS; but I hope it is only  one of my usual periods of non-work.
They are more unbearable now,  because I cannot rest.  NO REST BUT THE GRAVE FOR SIR WALTER!
O  the words ring in a man's head.)

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO A. CONAN DOYLE

VAILIMA, AUGUST 23RD, 1893.

MY DEAR DR. CONAN DOYLE, - I am reposing after a somewhat severe  experience upon which I think
it my duty to report to you.   Immediately after dinner this evening it occurred to me to re-
narrate to my native overseer Simele your story of THE ENGINEER'S  THUMB.  And, sir, I have
done it.  It was necessary, I need hardly  say, to go somewhat farther afield than you have
done.  To explain  (for instance) what a railway is, what a steam hammer, what a coach  and
horse, what coining, what a criminal, and what the police.  I  pass over other and no less
necessary explanations.  But I did  actually succeed; and if you could have seen the drawn,
anxious  features and the bright, feverish eyes of Simele, you would have  (for the moment
at least) tasted glory.  You might perhaps think  that, were you to come to Samoa, you might
be introduced as the  Author of THE ENGINEER'S THUMB.  Disabuse yourself.  They do not  know
what it is to make up a story.  THE ENGINEER'S THUMB (God  forgive me) was narrated as a piece
of actual and factual history.   Nay, and more, I who write to you have had the indiscretion
to  perpetrate a trifling piece of fiction entitled THE BOTTLE IMP.   Parties who come up to
visit my unpretentious mansion, after having  admired the ceilings by Vanderputty and the tapestry
by Gobbling,  manifest towards the end a certain uneasiness which proves them to  be fellows
of an infinite delicacy.  They may be seen to shrug a  brown shoulder, to roll up a speaking
eye, and at last secret  bursts from them:  'Where is the bottle?'  Alas, my friends (I feel
tempted to say), you will find it by the Engineer's Thumb!  Talofa- soifuia.

Oa'u, O lau no moni, O Tusitala.

More commonly known as,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Have read the REFUGEES; Conde and old P.  Murat very good; Louis  XIV. and Louvois with the
letter bag very rich.  You have reached a  trifle wide perhaps; too MANY celebrities?  Though
I was delighted  to re-encounter my old friend Du Chaylu.  Old Murat is perhaps your  high
water mark; 'tis excellently human, cheerful and real.  Do it  again.  Madame de Maintenon
struck me as quite good.  Have you any  document for the decapitation?  It sounds steepish.
The devil of  all that first part is that you see old Dumas; yet your Louis XIV.  is DISTINCTLY
GOOD.  I am much interested with this book, which  fulfils a good deal, and promises more.
Question:  How far a  Historical Novel should be wholly episodic?  I incline to that  view,
with trembling.  I shake hands with you on old Murat.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO GEORGE MEREDITH

SEPT. 5TH, 1893, VAILIMA PLANTATION, UPOLU, SAMOA.

MY DEAR MEREDITH, - I have again and again taken up the pen to  write to you, and many beginnings
have gone into the waste paper  basket (I have one now - for the second time in my life - and
feel  a big man on the strength of it).  And no doubt it requires some  decision to break so
long a silence.  My health is vastly restored,  and I am now living patriarchally in this place
six hundred feet  above the sea on the shoulder of a mountain of 1500.  Behind me,  the unbroken
bush slopes up to the backbone of the island (3 to  4000) without a house, with no inhabitants
save a few runaway black  boys, wild pigs and cattle, and wild doves and flying foxes, and
many parti-coloured birds, and many black, and many white:  a very  eerie, dim, strange place
and hard to travel.  I am the head of a  household of five whites, and of twelve Samoans, to
all of whom I  am the chief and father:  my cook comes to me and asks leave to  marry - and
his mother, a fine old chief woman, who has never lived  here, does the same.  You may be sure
I granted the petition.  It  is a life of great interest, complicated by the Tower of Babel,
that old enemy.  And I have all the time on my hands for literary  work.  My house is a great
place; we have a hall fifty feet long  with a great red-wood stair ascending from it, where
we dine in  state - myself usually dressed in a singlet and a pair of trousers  - and attended
on by servants in a single garment, a kind of kilt -  also flowers and leaves - and their hair
often powdered with lime.   The European who came upon it suddenly would think it was a dream.
We have prayers on Sunday night - I am a perfect pariah in the  island not to have them oftener,
but the spirit is unwilling and  the flesh proud, and I cannot go it more.  It is strange to
see the  long line of the brown folk crouched along the wall with lanterns  at intervals before
them in the big shadowy hall, with an oak  cabinet at one end of it and a group of Rodin's
(which native taste  regards as PRODIGIEUSEMENT LESTE) presiding over all from the top -  and
to hear the long rambling Samoan hymn rolling up (God bless me,  what style!  But I am off
business to-day, and this is not meant to  be literature.).

I have asked Colvin to send you a copy of CATRIONA, which I am  sometimes tempted to think
is about my best work.  I hear word  occasionally of the AMAZING MARRIAGE.  It will be a brave
day for  me when I get hold of it.  Gower Woodseer is now an ancient, lean,  grim, exiled Scot,
living and labouring as for a wager in the  tropics; still active, still with lots of fire
in him, but the  youth - ah, the youth where is it?  For years after I came here,  the critics
(those genial gentlemen) used to deplore the relaxation  of my fibre and the idleness to which
I had succumbed.  I hear less  of this now; the next thing is they will tell me I am writing
myself out! and that my unconscientious conduct is bringing their  grey hairs with sorrow to
the dust.  I do not know - I mean I do  know one thing.  At least I have not failed, but I
would  have preferred a place of trumpetings and the open air over my  head.

This is a devilish egotistical yarn.  Will you try to imitate me in  that if the spirit ever
moves you to reply?  And meantime be sure  that away in the midst of the Pacific there is a
house on a wooded  island where the name of George Meredith is very dear, and his  memory (since
it must be no more) is continually honoured. - Ever  your friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Remember me to Mariette, if you please; and my wife sends her most  kind remembrances to yourself.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO AUGUSTUS ST. GAUDENS

VAILIMA, SEPTEMBER 1893.

MY DEAR ST. GAUDENS, - I had determined not to write to you till I  had seen the medallion,
but it looks as if that might mean the  Greek Kalends or the day after to-morrow.  Reassure
yourself, your  part is done, it is ours that halts - the consideration of  conveyance over
our sweet little road on boys' backs, for we cannot  very well apply the horses to this work;
there is only one; you  cannot put it in a panier; to put it on the horse's back we have  not
the heart.  Beneath the beauty of R. L. S., to say nothing of  his verses, which the publishers
find heavy enough, and the genius  of the god-like sculptor, the spine would snap and the well-knit
limbs of the (ahem) cart-horse would be loosed by death.  So you  are to conceive me, sitting
in my house, dubitative, and the  medallion chuckling in the warehouse of the German firm,
for some  days longer; and hear me meanwhile on the golden letters.

Alas! they are all my fancy painted, but the price is prohibitive.   I cannot do it.  It is
another day-dream burst.  Another gable of  Abbotsford has gone down, fortunately before it
was builded, so  there's nobody injured - except me.  I had a strong conviction that  I was
a great hand at writing inscriptions, and meant to exhibit  and test my genius on the walls
of my house; and now I see I can't.   It is generally thus.  The Battle of the Golden Letters
will never  be delivered.  On making preparation to open the campaign, the King  found himself
face to face with invincible difficulties, in which  the rapacity of a mercenary soldiery and
the complaints of an  impoverished treasury played an equal part. - Ever yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

I enclose a bill for the medallion; have been trying to find your  letter, quite in vain, and
therefore must request you to pay for  the bronze letters yourself and let me know the damage.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO J. HORNE STEVENSON

VAILIMA, SAMOA, NOVEMBER 5TH, 1893.

MY DEAR STEVENSON, - A thousand thanks for your voluminous and  delightful collections.  Baxter
- so soon as it is ready - will let  you see a proof of my introduction, which is only sent
out as a  sprat to catch whales.  And you will find I have a good deal of  what you have, only
mine in a perfectly desultory manner, as is  necessary to an exile.  My uncle's pedigree is
wrong; there was  never a Stevenson of Caldwell, of course, but they were tenants of  the Muirs;
the farm held by them is in my introduction; and I have  already written to Charles Baxter
to have a search made in the  Register House.  I hope he will have had the inspiration to put
it  under your surveillance.  Your information as to your own family is  intensely interesting,
and I should not wonder but what you and we  and old John Stevenson, 'land labourer in the
parish of Dailly,'  came all of the same stock.  Ayrshire - and probably Cunningham -  seems
to be the home of the race - our part of it.  From the  distribution of the name - which your
collections have so much  extended without essentially changing my knowledge of - we seem 
rather pointed to a British origin.  What you say of the Engineers  is fresh to me, and must
be well thrashed out.  This introduction  of it will take a long while to walk about! - as
perhaps I may be  tempted to let it become long; after all, I am writing THIS for my  own pleasure
solely.  Greetings to you and other Speculatives of  our date, long bygone, alas! - Yours very
sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - I have a different version of my grandfather's arms - or my  father had if I could find it.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO JOHN P-N

VAILIMA, SAMOA, DECEMBER 3RD, 1893.

DEAR JOHNNIE, - Well, I must say you seem to be a tremendous  fellow!  Before I was eight I
used to write stories - or dictate  them at least - and I had produced an excellent history
of Moses,  for which I got 1 pound from an uncle; but I had never gone the  length of a play,
so you have beaten me fairly on my own ground.  I  hope you may continue to do so, and thanking
you heartily for your  nice letter, I shall beg you to believe me yours truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO RUSSELL P-N

VAILIMA, SAMOA, DECEMBER 3RD, 1893.

DEAR RUSSELL, - I have to thank you very much for your capital  letter, which came to hand
here in Samoa along with your mother's.   When you 'grow up and write stories like me,' you
will be able to  understand that there is scarce anything more painful than for an  author
to hold a pen; he has to do it so much that his heart  sickens and his fingers ache at the
sight or touch of it; so that  you will excuse me if I do not write much, but remain (with
compliments and greetings from one Scot to another - though I was  not born in Ceylon - you're
ahead of me there). - Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

VAILIMA, DECEMBER 5, 1893.

MY DEAREST CUMMY, - This goes to you with a Merry Christmas and a  Happy New Year.  The Happy
New Year anyway, for I think it should  reach you about NOOR'S DAY.  I dare say it may be cold
and frosty.   Do you remember when you used to take me out of bed in the early  morning, carry
me to the back windows, show me the hills of Fife,  and quote to me.

'A' the hills are covered wi' snaw, An' winter's noo come fairly'?

There is not much chance of that here!  I wonder how my mother is  going to stand the winter.
If she can, it will be a very good  thing for her.  We are in that part of the year which I
like the  best - the Rainy or Hurricane Season.  'When it is good, it is  very, very good;
and when it is bad, it is horrid,' and our fine  days are certainly fine like heaven; such
a blue of the sea, such  green of the trees, and such crimson of the hibiscus flowers, you
never saw; and the air as mild and gentle as a baby's breath, and  yet not hot!

The mail is on the move, and I must let up. - With much love, I am,  your laddie,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

6TH DECEMBER 1893.

'OCTOBER 25, 1685. - At Privy Council, George Murray, Lieutenant of  the King's Guard, and
others, did, on the 21st of September last,  obtain a clandestine order of Privy Council to
apprehend the person  of Janet Pringle, daughter to the late Clifton, and she having  retired
out of the way upon information, he got an order against  Andrew Pringle, her uncle, to produce
her. . . . But she having  married Andrew Pringle, her uncle's son (to disappoint all their
designs of selling her), a boy of thirteen years old.'  But my boy  is to be fourteen, so I
extract no further. - FOUNTAINHALL, i. 320.

'MAY 6, 1685. - Wappus Pringle of Clifton was still alive after  all, and in prison for debt,
and transacts with Lieutenant Murray,  giving security for 7000 marks.' - i. 372.

No, it seems to have been HER brother who had succeeded.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - The above is my story, and I wonder if any light  can be thrown on it. 
I prefer the girl's father dead; and the  question is, How in that case could Lieutenant George
Murray get  his order to 'apprehend' and his power to 'sell' her in marriage?

Or - might Lieutenant G. be her tutor, and she fugitive to the  Pringles, and on the discovery
of her whereabouts hastily married?

A good legal note on these points is very ardently desired by me;  it will be the corner-stone
of my novel.

This is for - I am quite wrong to tell you - for you will tell  others - and nothing will teach
you that all my schemes are in the  air, and vanish and reappear again like shapes in the clouds
- it  is for HEATHERCAT:  whereof the first volume will be called THE  KILLING TIME, and I
believe I have authorities ample for that.  But  the second volume is to be called (I believe)
DARIEN, and for that  I want, I fear, a good deal of truck:-

DARIEN PAPERS, CARSTAIRS PAPERS, MARCHMONT PAPERS, JERVISWOODE CORRESPONDENCE,

I hope may do me.  Some sort of general history of the Darien  affair (if there is a decent
one, which I misdoubt), it would also  be well to have - the one with most details, if possible.
It is  singular how obscure to me this decade of Scots history remains,  1690-1700 - a deuce
of a want of light and grouping to it!   However, I believe I shall be mostly out of Scotland
in my tale;  first in Carolina, next in Darien.  I want also - I am the daughter  of the horse-leech
truly - 'Black's new large map of Scotland,'  sheets 3, 4, and 5, a 7s. 6d. touch.  I believe,
if you can get the

CALDWELL PAPERS,

they had better come also; and if there be any reasonable work -  but no, I must call a halt. . . .

I fear the song looks doubtful, but I'll consider of it, and I can  promise you some reminiscences
which it will amuse me to write,  whether or not it will amuse the public to read of them.
But it's  an unco business to SUPPLY deid-heid coapy.

Letter:  TO J. M. BARRIE

VAILIMA, SAMOA, DECEMBER 7TH, 1893.

MY DEAR BARRIE, - I have received duly the MAGNUM OPUS, and it  really is a MAGNUM OPUS.  It
is a beautiful specimen of Clark's  printing, paper sufficient, and the illustrations all my
fancy  painted.  But the particular flower of the flock to whom I have  hopelessly lost my
heart is Tibby Birse.  I must have known Tibby  Birse when she was a servant's mantua-maker
in Edinburgh and  answered to the name of Miss BRODDIE.  She used to come and sew  with my
nurse, sitting with her legs crossed in a masculine manner;  and swinging her foot emphatically,
she used to pour forth a  perfectly unbroken stream of gossip.  I didn't hear it, I was  immersed
in far more important business with a box of bricks, but  the recollection of that thin, perpetual,
shrill sound of a voice  has echoed in my ears sinsyne.  I am bound to say she was younger
than Tibbie, but there is no mistaking that and the indescribable  and eminently Scottish expression.

I have been very much prevented of late, having carried out  thoroughly to my own satisfaction
two considerable illnesses, had a  birthday, and visited Honolulu, where politics are (if possible)
a  shade more exasperating than they are with us.  I am told that it  was just when I was on
the point of leaving that I received your  superlative epistle about the cricket eleven.  In
that case it is  impossible I should have answered it, which is inconsistent with my  own recollection
of the fact.  What I remember is, that I sat down  under your immediate inspiration and wrote
an answer in every way  worthy.  If I didn't, as it seems proved that I couldn't, it will 
never be done now.  However, I did the next best thing, I equipped  my cousin Graham Balfour
with a letter of introduction, and from  him, if you know how - for he is rather of the Scottish
character -  you may elicit all the information you can possibly wish to have as  to us and
ours.  Do not be bluffed off by the somewhat stern and  monumental first impression that he
may make upon you.  He is one  of the best fellows in the world, and the same sort of fool
that we  are, only better-looking, with all the faults of Vailimans and some  of his own -
I say nothing about virtues.

I have lately been returning to my wallowing in the mire.  When I  was a child, and indeed
until I was nearly a man, I consistently  read Covenanting books.  Now that I am a grey-beard
- or would be,  if I could raise the beard - I have returned, and for weeks back  have read
little else but Wodrow, Walker, Shields, etc.  Of course  this is with an idea of a novel,
but in the course of it I made a  very curious discovery.  I have been accustomed to hear refined
and  intelligent critics - those who know so much better what we are  than we do ourselves,
- trace down my literary descent from all  sorts of people, including Addison, of whom I could
never read a  word.  Well, laigh i' your lug, sir - the clue was found.  My style  is from
the Covenanting writers.  Take a particular case - the  fondness for rhymes.  I don't know
of any English prose-writer who  rhymes except by accident, and then a stone had better be
tied  around his neck and himself cast into the sea.  But my Covenanting  buckies rhyme all
the time - a beautiful example of the unconscious  rhyme above referred to.

Do you know, and have you really tasted, these delightful works?   If not, it should be remedied;
there is enough of the Auld Licht in  you to be ravished.

I suppose you know that success has so far attended my banners - my  political banners I mean,
and not my literary.  In conjunction with  the Three Great Powers I have succeeded in getting
rid of My  President and My Chief-Justice.  They've gone home, the one to  Germany, the other
to Souwegia.  I hear little echoes of footfalls  of their departing footsteps through the medium
of the newspapers.  . . .

Whereupon I make you my salute with the firm remark that it is time  to be done with trifling
and give us a great book, and my ladies  fall into line with me to pay you a most respectful
courtesy, and  we all join in the cry, 'Come to Vailima!'

My dear sir, your soul's health is in it - you will never do the  great book, you will never
cease to work in L., etc., till you come  to Vailima.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO R. LE GALLIENNE

VAILIMA, SAMOA, DECEMBER 28TH, 1893.

DEAR MR. LE GALLIENNE, - I have received some time ago, through our  friend Miss Taylor, a
book of yours.  But that was by no means my  first introduction to your name.  The same book
had stood already  on my shelves; I had read articles of yours in the ACADEMY; and by  a piece
of constructive criticism (which I trust was sound) had  arrived at the conclusion that you
were 'Log-roller.'  Since then I  have seen your beautiful verses to your wife.  You are to
conceive  me, then, as only too ready to make the acquaintance of a man who  loved good literature
and could make it.  I had to thank you,  besides, for a triumphant exposure of a paradox of
my own:  the  literary-prostitute disappeared from view at a phrase of yours -  'The essence
is not in the pleasure but the sale.'  True:  you are  right, I was wrong; the author is not
the whore, but the libertine;  and yet I shall let the passage stand.  It is an error, but
it  illustrated the truth for which I was contending, that literature -  painting - all art,
are no other than pleasures, which we turn into  trades.

And more than all this, I had, and I have to thank you for the  intimate loyalty you have shown
to myself; for the eager welcome  you give to what is good - for the courtly tenderness with
which  you touch on my defects.  I begin to grow old; I have given my top  note, I fancy; -
and I have written too many books.  The world  begins to be weary of the old booth; and if
not weary, familiar  with the familiarity that breeds contempt.  I do not know that I am  sensitive
to criticism, if it be hostile; I am sensitive indeed,  when it is friendly; and when I read
such criticism as yours, I am  emboldened to go on and praise God.

You are still young, and you may live to do much.  The little,  artificial popularity of style
in England tends, I think, to die  out; the British pig returns to his true love, the love
of the  styleless, of the shapeless, of the slapdash and the disorderly.   There is trouble
coming, I think; and you may have to hold the fort  for us in evil days.

Lastly, let me apologise for the crucifixion that I am inflicting  on you (BIEN A CONTRE-COEUR)
by my bad writing.  I was once the  best of writers; landladies, puzzled as to my 'trade,'
used to have  their honest bosoms set at rest by a sight of a page of manuscript.  - 'Ah,'
they would say, 'no wonder they pay you for that'; - and  when I sent it in to the printers,
it was given to the boys!  I was  about thirty-nine, I think, when I had a turn of scrivener's
palsy;  my hand got worse; and for the first time, I received clean proofs.   But it has gone
beyond that now, I know I am like my old friend  James Payn, a terror to correspondents; and
you would not believe  the care with which this has been written. - Believe me to be, very
sincerely yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. A. BAKER

DECEMBER 1893.

DEAR MADAM, - There is no trouble, and I wish I could help instead.   As it is, I fear I am
only going to put you to trouble and  vexation.  This Braille writing is a kind of consecration,
and I  would like if I could to have your copy perfect.  The two volumes  are to be published
as Vols. I. and II. of THE ADVENTURES OF DAVID  BALFOUR.  1st, KIDNAPPED; 2nd, CATRIONA.  I
am just sending home a  corrected KIDNAPPED for this purpose to Messrs. Cassell, and in  order
that I may if possible be in time, I send it to you first of  all.  Please, as soon as you
have noted the changes, forward the  same to Cassell and Co., La Belle Sauvage Yard, Ludgate Hill.

I am writing to them by this mail to send you CATRIONA.

You say, dear madam, you are good enough to say, it is 'a keen  pleasure' to you to bring my
book within the reach of the blind.

Conceive then what it is to me! and believe me, sincerely yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

APIA, DECEMBER 1893.

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES, - The mail has come upon me like an armed man  three days earlier than
was expected; and the Lord help me!  It is  impossible I should answer anybody the way they
should be.  Your  jubilation over CATRIONA did me good, and still more the subtlety  and truth
of your remark on the starving of the visual sense in  that book.  'Tis true, and unless I
make the greater effort - and  am, as a step to that, convinced of its necessity - it will
be more  true I fear in the future.  I HEAR people talking, and I FEEL them  acting, and that
seems to me to be fiction.  My two aims may be  described as -

1ST.  War to the adjective. 2ND.  Death to the optic nerve.

Admitted we live in an age of the optic nerve in literature.  For  how many centuries did literature
get along without a sign of it?   However, I'll consider your letter.

How exquisite is your character of the critic in ESSAYS IN LONDON!   I doubt if you have done
any single thing so satisfying as a piece  of style and of insight. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

1ST JANUARY '94.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I am delighted with your idea, and first, I will  here give an amended plan
and afterwards give you a note of some of  the difficulties.

[Plan of the Edinburgh edition - 14 vols.]

. . . It may be a question whether my TIMES letters might not be  appended to the 'Footnote'
with a note of the dates of discharge of  Cedercrantz and Pilsach.

I am particularly pleased with this idea of yours, because I am  come to a dead stop.  I never
can remember how bad I have been  before, but at any rate I am bad enough just now, I mean
as to  literature; in health I am well and strong.  I take it I shall be  six months before
I'm heard of again, and this time I could put in  to some advantage in revising the text and
(if it were thought  desirable) writing prefaces.  I do not know how many of them might  be
thought desirable.  I have written a paper on TREASURE ISLAND,  which is to appear shortly.
MASTER OF BALLANTRAE - I have one  drafted.  THE WRECKER is quite sufficiently done already
with the  last chapter, but I suppose an historic introduction to DAVID  BALFOUR is quite unavoidable.
PRINCE OTTO I don't think I could  say anything about, and BLACK ARROW don't want to.  But
it is  probable I could say something to the volume of TRAVELS.  In the  verse business I can
do just what I like better than anything else,  and extend UNDERWOODS with a lot of unpublished
stuff.  APROPOS, if  I were to get printed off a very few poems which are somewhat too  intimate
for the public, could you get them run up in some luxuous  manner, so that fools might be induced
to buy them in just a  sufficient quantity to pay expenses and the thing remain still in a
manner private?  We could supply photographs of the illustrations -  and the poems are of Vailima
and the family - I should much like to  get this done as a surprise for Fanny.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO H. B. BAILDON

VAILIMA, JANUARY 15TH, 1894.

MY DEAR BAILDON, - Last mail brought your book and its Dedication.   'Frederick Street and
the gardens, and the short-lived Jack o'  Lantern,' are again with me - and the note of the
east wind, and  Froebel's voice, and the smell of soup in Thomson's stair.  Truly,  you had
no need to put yourself under the protection of any other  saint, were that saint our Tamate
himself!  Yourself were enough,  and yourself coming with so rich a sheaf.

For what is this that you say about the Muses?  They have certainly  never better inspired
you than in 'Jael and Sisera,' and 'Herodias  and John the Baptist,' good stout poems, fiery
and sound.  ''Tis  but a mask and behind it chuckles the God of the Garden,' I shall  never
forget.  By the by, an error of the press, page 49, line 4,  'No infant's lesson are the ways
of God.'  THE is dropped.

And this reminds me you have a bad habit which is to be comminated  in my theory of letters.
Same page, two lines lower:  'But the  vulture's track' is surely as fine to the ear as 'But
vulture's  track,' and this latter version has a dreadful baldness.  The  reader goes on with
a sense of impoverishment, of unnecessary  sacrifice; he has been robbed by footpads, and goes
scouting for  his lost article!  Again, in the second Epode, these fine verses  would surely
sound much finer if they began, 'As a hardy climber  who has set his heart,' than with the
jejune 'As hardy climber.'  I  do not know why you permit yourself this license with grammar;
you  show, in so many pages, that you are superior to the paltry sense  of rhythm which usually
dictates it - as though some poetaster had  been suffered to correct the poet's text.  By the
way, I confess to  a heartfelt weakness for AURICULAS. - Believe me the very grateful  and
characteristic pick-thank, but still sincere and affectionate,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW.

VAILIMA, JANUARY 15th, 1894.

MY DEAR LOW, - . . . Pray you, stoop your proud head, and sell  yourself to some Jew magazine,
and make the visit out.  I assure  you, this is the spot for a sculptor or painter.  This,
and no  other - I don't say to stay there, but to come once and get the  living colour into
them.  I am used to it; I do not notice it;  rather prefer my grey, freezing recollections
of Scotland; but  there it is, and every morning is a thing to give thanks for, and  every
night another - bar when it rains, of course.

About THE WRECKER - rather late days, and I still suspect I had  somehow offended you; however,
all's well that ends well, and I am  glad I am forgiven - did you not fail to appreciate the
attitude of  Dodd?  He was a fizzle and a stick, he knew it, he knew nothing  else, and there
is an undercurrent of bitterness in him.  And then  the problem that Pinkerton laid down: 
why the artist can DO  NOTHING ELSE? is one that continually exercises myself.  He cannot:
granted.  But Scott could.  And Montaigne.  And Julius Caesar.  And  many more.  And why can't
R. L. S.?  Does it not amaze you?  It  does me.  I think of the Renaissance fellows, and their
all-round  human sufficiency, and compare it with the ineffable smallness of  the field in
which we labour and in which we do so little.  I think  DAVID BALFOUR a nice little book, and
very artistic, and just the  thing to occupy the leisure of a busy man; but for the top flower
of a man's life it seems to me inadequate.  Small is the word; it  is a small age, and I am
of it.  I could have wished to be  otherwise busy in this world.  I ought to have been able
to build  lighthouses and write DAVID BALFOURS too.  HINC ILLAE LACRYMAE.  I  take my own case
as most handy, but it is as illustrative of my  quarrel with the age.  We take all these pains,
and we don't do as  well as Michael Angelo or Leonardo, or even Fielding, who was an  active
magistrate, or Richardson, who was a busy bookseller.  J'AI  HONTE POUR NOUS; my ears burn.

I am amazed at the effect which this Chicago exhibition has  produced upon you and others.
It set Mrs. Fairchild literally mad  - to judge by her letters.  And I wish I had seen anything
so  influential.  I suppose there was an aura, a halo, some sort of  effulgency about the place;
for here I find you louder than the  rest.  Well, it may be there is a time coming; and I wonder,
when  it comes, whether it will be a time of little, exclusive, one-eyed  rascals like you
and me, or parties of the old stamp who can paint  and fight, and write and keep books of double
entry, and sculp, and  scalp.  It might be.  You have a lot of stuff in the kettle, and a 
great deal of it Celtic.  I have changed my mind progressively  about England, practically
the whole of Scotland is Celtic, and the  western half of England, and all Ireland, and the
Celtic blood  makes a rare blend for art.  If it is stiffened up with Latin  blood, you get
the French.  We were less lucky:  we had only  Scandinavians, themselves decidedly artistic,
and the Low-German  lot.  However, that is a good starting-point, and with all the  other elements
in your crucible, it may come to something great  very easily.  I wish you would hurry up and
let me see it.  Here is  a long while I have been waiting for something GOOD in art; and  what
have I seen?  Zola's DEBACLE and a few of Kipling's tales.   Are you a reader of Barbey d'Aurevilly?
He is a never-failing  source of pleasure to me, for my sins, I suppose.  What a work is  the
RIDEAU CRAMOISI! and L'ENSORCELEE! and LE CHEVALIER DES  TOUCHES!

This is degenerating into mere twaddle.  So please remember us all  most kindly to Mrs. Low,
and believe me ever yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - Were all your privateers voiceless in the war of 1812?  Did  NO ONE of them write memoirs?
I shall have to do my privateer from  chic, if you can't help me.  My application to Scribner
has been  quite in vain.  See if you can get hold of some historic sharp in  the club, and
tap him; they must some of them have written memoirs  or notes of some sort; perhaps still
unprinted; if that be so, get  them copied for me.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO H. B. BAILDON

VAILIMA, JANUARY 30TH, 1894.

MY DEAR BAILDON, - 'Call not blessed.' - Yes, if I could die just  now, or say in half a year,
I should have had a splendid time of it  on the whole.  But it gets a little stale, and my
work will begin  to senesce; and parties to shy bricks at me; and now it begins to  look as
if I should survive to see myself impotent and forgotten.   It's a pity suicide is not thought
the ticket in the best circles.

But your letter goes on to congratulate me on having done the one  thing I am a little sorry
for; a little - not much - for my father  himself lived to think that I had been wiser than
he.  But the  cream of the jest is that I have lived to change my mind; and think  that he
was wiser than I.  Had I been an engineer, and literature  my amusement, it would have been
better perhaps.  I pulled it off,  of course, I won the wager, and it is pleasant while it
lasts; but  how long will it last?  I don't know, say the Bells of Old Bow.

All of which goes to show that nobody is quite sane in judging  himself.  Truly, had I given
way and gone in for engineering, I  should be dead by now.  Well, the gods know best.

I hope you got my letter about the RESCUE. - Adieu,

R. L. S.

True for you about the benefit:  except by kisses, jests, song, ET  HOC GENUS OMNE, man CANNOT
convey benefit to another.  The  universal benefactor has been there before him.

Letter:  TO J. H. BATES

VAILIMA, SAMOA, MARCH 25TH, 1894.

MY DEAR MR. JOE H. BATES, - I shall have the greatest pleasure in  acceding to your complimentary
request.  I shall think it an honour  to be associated with your chapter, and I need not remind
you (for  you have said it yourself) how much depends upon your own exertions  whether to make
it to me a real honour or only a derision.  This is  to let you know that I accept the position
that you have seriously  offered to me in a quite serious spirit.  I need scarce tell you 
that I shall always be pleased to receive reports of your  proceedings; and if I do not always
acknowledge them, you are to  remember that I am a man very much occupied otherwise, and not
at  all to suppose that I have lost interest in my chapter.

In this world, which (as you justly say) is so full of sorrow and  suffering, it will always
please me to remember that my name is  connected with some efforts after alleviation, nor less
so with  purposes of innocent recreation which, after all, are the only  certain means at our
disposal for bettering human life.

With kind regards, to yourself, to Mr. L. C. Congdon, to E. M. G.  Bates, and to Mr. Edward
Hugh Higlee Bates, and the heartiest  wishes for the future success of the chapter, believe
me, yours  cordially,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM ARCHER

VAILIMA, SAMOA, MARCH 27TH, 1894.

MY DEAR ARCHER, - Many thanks for your THEATRICAL WORLD.  Do you  know, it strikes me as being
really very good?  I have not yet read  much of it, but so far as I have looked, there is not
a dull and  not an empty page in it.  Hazlitt, whom you must often have thought  of, would
have been pleased.  Come to think of it, I shall put this  book upon the Hazlitt shelf.  You
have acquired a manner that I can  only call august; otherwise, I should have to call it such
amazing  impudence.  The BAUBLE SHOP and BECKET are examples of what I mean.   But it 'sets
you weel.'

Marjorie Fleming I have known, as you surmise, for long.  She was  possibly - no, I take back
possibly - she was one of the greatest  works of God.  Your note about the resemblance of her
verses to  mine gave me great joy, though it only proved me a plagiarist.  By  the by, was
it not over THE CHILD'S GARDEN OF VERSES that we first  scraped acquaintance?  I am sorry indeed
to hear that my esteemed  correspondent Tomarcher has such poor taste in literature.  I fear
he cannot have inherited this trait from his dear papa.  Indeed, I  may say I know it, for
I remember the energy of papa's disapproval  when the work passed through his hands on its
way to a second  birth, which none regrets more than myself.  It is an odd fact, or  perhaps
a very natural one; I find few greater pleasures than  reading my own works, but I never, O
I never read THE BLACK ARROW.   In that country Tomarcher reigns supreme.  Well, and after
all, if  Tomarcher likes it, it has not been written in vain.

We have just now a curious breath from Europe.  A young fellow just  beginning letters, and
no fool, turned up here with a letter of  introduction in the well-known blue ink and decorative
hieroglyphs  of George Meredith.  His name may be known to you.  It is Sidney  Lysaght.  He
is staying with us but a day or two, and it is strange  to me and not unpleasant to hear all
the names, old and new, come  up again.  But oddly the new are so much more in number.  If
I  revisited the glimpses of the moon on your side of the ocean, I  should know comparatively
few of them.

My amanuensis deserts me - I should have said you, for yours is the  loss, my script having
lost all bond with humanity.  One touch of  nature makes the whole world kin:  that nobody
can read my hand.   It is a humiliating circumstance that thus evens us with printers!

You must sometimes think it strange - or perhaps it is only I that  should so think it - to
be following the old round, in the gas  lamps and the crowded theatres, when I am away here
in the tropical  forest and the vast silences!

My dear Archer, my wife joins me in the best wishes to yourself and  Mrs. Archer, not forgetting
Tom; and I am yours very cordially,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. B. YEATS

VAILIMA, SAMOA, APRIL 14, 1894.

DEAR SIR, - Long since when I was a boy I remember the emotions  with which I repeated Swinburne's
poems and ballads.  Some ten  years ago, a similar spell was cast upon me by Meredith's LOVE
IN  THE VALLEY; the stanzas beginning 'When her mother tends her'  haunted me and made me drunk
like wine; and I remember waking with  them all the echoes of the hills about Hyeres.  It may
interest you  to hear that I have a third time fallen in slavery:  this is to  your poem called
the LAKE ISLE OF INNISFRAE.  It is so quaint and  airy, simple, artful, and eloquent to the
heart - but I seek words  in vain.

Letter:  TO GEORGE MEREDITH

VAILIMA, SAMOA, APRIL 17TH, 1894.

MY DEAR MEREDITH, - Many good things have the gods sent to me of  late.  First of all there
was a letter from you by the kind hand of  Mariette, if she is not too great a lady to be remembered
in such a  style; and then there came one Lysaght with a charming note of  introduction in
the well-known hand itself.  We had but a few days  of him, and liked him well.  There was
a sort of geniality and  inward fire about him at which I warmed my hands.  It is long since
I have seen a young man who has left in me such a favourable  impression; and I find myself
telling myself, 'O, I must tell this  to Lysaght,' or, 'This will interest him,' in a manner
very unusual  after so brief an acquaintance.  The whole of my family shared in  this favourable
impression, and my halls have re-echoed ever since,  I am sure he will be amused to know, with
WIDDICOMBE FAIR.

He will have told you doubtless more of my news than I could tell  you myself; he has your
European perspective, a thing long lost to  me.  I heard with a great deal of interest the
news of Box Hill.   And so I understand it is to be enclosed!  Allow me to remark, that  seems
a far more barbaric trait of manners than the most barbarous  of ours.  We content ourselves
with cutting off an occasional head.

I hear we may soon expect the AMAZING MARRIAGE.  You know how long,  and with how much curiosity,
I have looked forward to the book.   Now, in so far as you have adhered to your intention,
Gower  Woodsere will be a family portrait, age twenty-five, of the highly  respectable and
slightly influential and fairly aged TUSITALA.  You  have not known that gentleman; console
yourself, he is not worth  knowing.  At the same time, my dear Meredith, he is very sincerely
yours - for what he is worth, for the memories of old times, and in  the expectation of many
pleasures still to come.  I suppose we  shall never see each other again; flitting youths of
the Lysaght  species may occasionally cover these unconscionable leagues and  bear greetings
to and fro.  But we ourselves must be content to  converse on an occasional sheet of notepaper,
and I shall never see  whether you have grown older, and you shall never deplore that  Gower
Woodsere should have declined into the pantaloon TUSITALA.   It is perhaps better so.  Let
us continue to see each other as we  were, and accept, my dear Meredith, my love and respect.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - My wife joins me in the kindest messages to yourself and  Mariette.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[VAILIMA], APRIL 17, '94.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - ST. IVES is now well on its way into the second  volume.  There remains
no mortal doubt that it will reach the three  volume standard.

I am very anxious that you should send me -

1ST.  TOM AND JERRY, a cheap edition.

2nd.  The book by Ashton - the DAWN OF THE CENTURY, I think it was  called - which Colvin sent
me, and which has miscarried, and

3rd.  If it is possible, a file of the EDINBURGH COURANT for the  years 1811, 1812, 1813, or
1814.  I should not care for a whole  year.  If it were possible to find me three months, winter
months  by preference, it would do my business not only for ST. IVES, but  for the JUSTICE-CLERK
as well.  Suppose this to be impossible,  perhaps I could get the loan of it from somebody;
or perhaps it  would be possible to have some one read a file for me and make  notes.  This
would be extremely bad, as unhappily one man's food is  another man's poison, and the reader
would probably leave out  everything I should choose.  But if you are reduced to that, you
might mention to the man who is to read for me that balloon  ascensions are in the order of
the day.

4th.  It might be as well to get a book on balloon ascension,  particularly in the early part
of the century.

. . . . .

III.  At last this book has come from Scribner, and, alas!  I have  the first six or seven
chapters of ST. IVES to recast entirely.   Who could foresee that they clothed the French prisoners
in yellow?   But that one fatal fact - and also that they shaved them twice a  week - damns
the whole beginning.  If it had been sent in time, it  would have saved me a deal of trouble. . . .

I have had a long letter from Dr. Scott Dalgleish, 25 Mayfield  Terrace, asking me to put my
name down to the Ballantyne Memorial  Committee.  I have sent him a pretty sharp answer in
favour of  cutting down the memorial and giving more to the widow and  children.  If there
is to be any foolery in the way of statues or  other trash, please send them a guinea; but
if they are going to  take my advice and put up a simple tablet with a few heartfelt  words,
and really devote the bulk of the subscriptions to the wife  and family, I will go to the length
of twenty pounds, if you will  allow me (and if the case of the family be at all urgent), and
at  least I direct you to send ten pounds.  I suppose you had better  see Scott Dalgleish himself
on the matter.  I take the opportunity  here to warn you that my head is simply spinning with
a multitude  of affairs, and I shall probably forget a half of my business at  last.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

VAILIMA, APRIL 1894.

MY DEAR FRIEND, - I have at last got some photographs, and hasten  to send you, as you asked,
a portrait of Tusitala.  He is a strange  person; not so lean, say experts, but infinitely
battered; mighty  active again on the whole; going up and down our break-neck road at  all
hours of the day and night on horseback; holding meetings with  all manner of chiefs; quite
a political personage - God save the  mark! - in a small way, but at heart very conscious of
the  inevitable flat failure that awaits every one.  I shall never do a  better book than CATRIONA,
that is my high-water mark, and the  trouble of production increases on me at a great rate
- and mighty  anxious about how I am to leave my family:  an elderly man, with  elderly preoccupations,
whom I should be ashamed to show you for  your old friend; but not a hope of my dying soon
and cleanly, and  'winning off the stage.'  Rather I am daily better in physical  health. 
I shall have to see this business out, after all; and I  think, in that case, they should have
- they might have - spared me  all my ill-health this decade past, if it were not to unbar
the  doors.  I have no taste for old age, and my nose is to be rubbed in  it in spite of my
face.  I was meant to die young, and the gods do  not love me.

This is very like an epitaph, bar the handwriting, which is  anything but monumental, and I
dare say I had better stop.  Fanny  is down at her own cottage planting or deplanting or replanting,
I  know not which, and she will not be home till dinner, by which time  the mail will be all
closed, else she would join me in all good  messages and remembrances of love.  I hope you
will congratulate  Burne Jones from me on his baronetcy.  I cannot make out to be  anything
but raspingly, harrowingly sad; so I will close, and not  affect levity which I cannot feel.
Do not altogether forget me;  keep a corner of your memory for the exile

LOUIS.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[VAILIMA, MAY 1894.]

MY DEAR CHARLES, - My dear fellow, I wish to assure you of the  greatness of the pleasure that
this Edinburgh Edition gives me.  I  suppose it was your idea to give it that name.  No other
would have  affected me in the same manner.  Do you remember, how many years  ago - I would
be afraid to hazard a guess - one night when I  communicated to you certain intimations of
early death and  aspirations after fame?  I was particularly maudlin; and my remorse  the next
morning on a review of my folly has written the matter  very deeply in my mind; from yours
it may easily have fled.  If any  one at that moment could have shown me the Edinburgh Edition,
I  suppose I should have died.   If it had been possible, I should almost have preferred the
Lothian  Road Edition, say, with a picture of the old Dutch smuggler on the  covers.  I have
now something heavy on my mind.  I had always a  great sense of kinship with poor Robert Fergusson
- so clever a  boy, so wild, of such a mixed strain, so unfortunate, born in the  same town
with me, and, as I always felt, rather by express  intimation than from evidence, so like myself.
Now the injustice  with which the one Robert is rewarded and the other left out in the  cold
sits heavy on me, and I wish you could think of some way in  which I could do honour to my
unfortunate namesake.  Do you think  it would look like affectation to dedicate the whole edition
to his  memory?  I think it would.  The sentiment which would dictate it to  me is too abstruse;
and besides, I think my wife is the proper  person to receive the dedication of my life's work.
At the same  time, it is very odd - it really looks like the transmigration of  souls - I feel
that I must do something for Fergusson; Burns has  been before me with the gravestone.  It
occurs to me you might take  a walk down the Canongate and see in what condition the stone
is.   If it be at all uncared for, we might repair it, and perhaps add a  few words of inscription.

I must tell you, what I just remembered in a flash as I was walking  about dictating this letter
- there was in the original plan of the  MASTER OF BALLANTRAE a sort of introduction describing
my arrival  in Edinburgh on a visit to yourself and your placing in my hands  the papers of
the story.  I actually wrote it, and then condemned  the idea - as being a little too like
Scott, I suppose.  Now I must  really find the MS. and try to finish it for the E. E.  It will
give you, what I should so much like you to have, another corner of  your own in that lofty
monument.

Suppose we do what I have proposed about Fergusson's monument, I  wonder if an inscription
like this would look arrogant -

This stone originally erected by Robert Burns has been repaired at the charges of Robert Louis
Stevenson, and is by him re-dedicated to the memory of Robert Fergusson, as the gift of one
Edinburgh lad to another.

In spacing this inscription I would detach the names of Fergusson  and Burns, but leave mine
in the text.

Or would that look like sham modesty, and is it better to bring out  the three Roberts?

Letter:  TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

VAILIMA, JUNE 1894.

MY DEAR BOB, - I must make out a letter this mail or perish in the  attempt.  All the same,
I am deeply stupid, in bed with a cold,  deprived of my amanuensis, and conscious of the wish
but not the  furnished will.  You may be interested to hear how the family  inquiries go. 
It is now quite certain that we are a second-rate  lot, and came out of Cunningham or Clydesdale,
therefore BRITISH  folk; so that you are Cymry on both sides, and I Cymry and Pict.   We may
have fought with King Arthur and known Merlin.  The first of  the family, Stevenson of Stevenson,
was quite a great party, and  dates back to the wars of Edward First.  The last male heir of
Stevenson of Stevenson died 1670, 220 pounds, 10s. to the bad, from  drink.  About the same
time the Stevensons, who were mostly in  Cunningham before, crop up suddenly in the parish
of Neilston, over  the border in Renfrewshire.  Of course, they may have been there  before,
but there is no word of them in that parish till 1675 in  any extracts I have.  Our first traceable
ancestor was a tenant  farmer of Muir of Cauldwells - James in Nether-Carsewell.   Presently
two families of maltmen are found in Glasgow, both, by  re-duplicated proofs, related to James
(the son of James) in Nether  Carsewell.  We descend by his second marriage from Robert; one
of  these died 1733.  It is not very romantic up to now, but has  interested me surprisingly
to fish out, always hoping for more -  and occasionally getting at least a little clearness
and  confirmation.  But the earliest date, 1655, apparently the marriage  of James in Nether
Carsewell, cannot as yet be pushed back.  From  which of any number of dozen little families
in Cunningham we  should derive, God knows!  Of course, it doesn't matter a hundred  years
hence, an argument fatal to all human enterprise, industry,  or pleasure.  And to me it will
be a deadly disappointment if I  cannot roll this stone away!  One generation further might
be  nothing, but it is my present object of desire, and we are so near  it!  There is a man
in the same parish called Constantine; if I  could only trace to him, I could take you far
afield by that one  talisman of the strange Christian name of Constantine.  But no such  luck!
And I kind of fear we shall stick at James.

So much, though all inchoate, I trouble you with, knowing that you,  at least, must take an
interest in it.  So much is certain of that  strange Celtic descent, that the past has an interest
for it  apparently gratuitous, but fiercely strong.  I wish to trace my  ancestors a thousand
years, if I trace them by gallowses.  It is  not love, not pride, not admiration; it is an
expansion of the  identity, intimately pleasing, and wholly uncritical; I can expend  myself
in the person of an inglorious ancestor with perfect  comfort; or a disgraced, if I could find
one.  I suppose, perhaps,  it is more to me who am childless, and refrain with a certain shock
from looking forwards.  But, I am sure, in the solid grounds of  race, that you have it also
in some degree.

I. JAMES, a tenant of the Muirs, in Nether-Carsewell,
                 Neilston, married (1665?) Jean Keir.
     ||                                        |
     ||                                        |
     ||                                        |
     +-----------------------------------------+
       II.  ROBERT (Maltman in Glasgow), died 1733,
              |    married 1st;     married second,
              |    Elizabeth Cumming.
              |            ||
              |            ||
    William (Maltman in    ||
        Glasgow).          +--------------+
              |                           |
              |                           |
+-------------+--------------+         III. ROBERT (Maltman
ROBERT,     MARION,      ELIZABETH.      in Glasgow), married
                                         Margaret Fulton (had
NOTE. - Between 1730-1766 flourished     a large family).
in Glasgow Alan the Coppersmith, who      ||
acts as a kind of a pin to the whole      ||
Stevenson system there.  He was caution   IV. ALAN, West India
to Robert the Second's will, and to          merchant, married
William's will, and to the will of a         Jean Lillie.
John, another maltman.                       ||
                                             ||
                                         V. ROBERT, married
                                            Jean Smith.
                                             |
                                         VI. ALAN. - Margaret
                                             Jones
                                             |
                                         VII. R. A. M. S.

Enough genealogy.  I do not know if you will be able to read my  hand.  Unhappily, Belle, who
is my amanuensis, is out of the way on  other affairs, and I have to make the unwelcome effort.
(O this is  beautiful, I am quite pleased with myself.)  Graham has just  arrived last night
(my mother is coming by the other steamer in  three days), and has told me of your meeting,
and he said you  looked a little older than I did; so that I suppose we keep step  fairly on
the downward side of the hill.  He thought you looked  harassed, and I could imagine that too.
I sometimes feel harassed.   I have a great family here about me, a great anxiety.  The loss
(to  use my grandfather's expression), the 'loss' of our family is that  we are disbelievers
in the morrow - perhaps I should say, rather,  in next year.  The future is ALWAYS black to
us; it was to Robert  Stevenson; to Thomas; I suspect to Alan; to R. A. M. S. it was so  almost
to his ruin in youth; to R. L. S., who had a hard hopeful  strain in him from his mother, it
was not so much so once, but  becomes daily more so.  Daily so much more so, that I have a
painful difficulty in believing I can ever finish another book, or  that the public will ever
read it.

