The Stile of Romances ought to be simple; indeed it should be more florid than that of History,
but not have all that Energy and Majesty. Gallantry is the Soul of Romance, and Grandeur and
Justness that of History. A Person must be very well acquainted with the World to excel in
the one, and he must have Learning and Politics to distinguish himself in the other. Good Sense,
Perspicuity, Justness of Characters, Truth of Descriptions, Purity of Stile are necessary in
both. The Ladies are born Judges of the Goodness of a Romance. Posterity decides the Merit
of a History.

Fare thee well, dear Isaac. As soon as I have receiv'd the new Books from Holland, I will send
them to thee.

NOTES:

[13] Crébillon the Son.

[14] La Calprenede.

[15] The Polexandre of Gomberville, the Ariana of Des Maretz, &c.

[16] Le Prevot d'Exiles. See the Bibliotheque des Romans.

[17] Histoire du Chevalier des Essars, & de la Comtesse de Merci, &c.

[18] Fanseredin, &c.

[19] M. d'Argens. IV.

THE EDITOR to the READER.

If it may be thought reasonable to criticise the Public Taste, in what are generally supposed
to be Works of mere Amusement; or modest to direct its Judgment, in what is offered for its
Entertainment; I would beg leave to introduce the following Sheets with a few cursory Remarks,
that may lead the common Reader into some tolerable conception of the nature of this Work,
and the design of its Author.

The close connexion which every Individual has with all that relates to MAN in general, strongly
inclines us to turn our observation upon human affairs, preferably to other attentions, and
impatiently to wait the progress and issue of them. But, as the course of human actions is
too slow to gratify our inquisitive curiosity, observant men very easily contrived to satisfy
its rapidity, by the invention of History. Which, by recording the principal circumstances
of past facts, and laying them close together, in a continued narration, kept the mind from
languishing, and gave constant exercise to its reflections.

But as it commonly happens, that in all indulgent refinements on our satisfactions, the Procurers
to our pleasures run into excess; so it happened here. Strict matters of fact, how delicately
soever dressed up, soon grew too simple and insipid to a taste stimulated by the Luxury of
Art: They wanted something of more poignancy to quicken and enforce a jaded appetite. Hence
the Original of the first barbarous Romances, abounding with this false provocative of uncommon,
extraordinary, and miraculous Adventures.

But satiety, in things unnatural, soon, brings on disgust. And the Reader, at length, began
to see, that too eager a pursuit after Adventures had drawn him from what first engaged his
attention, MAN and his Ways, into the Fairy Walks of Monsters and Chimeras. And now those who
had run farthest after these delusions, were the first that recovered themselves. For the next
Species of Fiction, which took its name from its novelty, was of Spanish invention. These presented
us with something of Humanity; but of Humanity in a stiff unnatural state. For, as every thing
before was conducted by Inchantment; so now all was managed by Intrigue. And tho' it had indeed
a kind of Life, it had yet, as in its infancy, nothing of Manners. On which account, those,
who could not penetrate into the ill constitution of its plan, yet grew disgusted at the dryness
of the Conduct, and want of ease in the Catastrophe.

The avoiding these defects gave rise to the Heroical Romances of the French; in which some
celebrated Story of antiquity was so stained and polluted by modern fable and invention, as
was just enough to shew, that the contrivers of them neither knew how to lye, nor speak truth.
In these voluminous extravagances, Love and Honour supplied the place of Life and Manners.
But the over-refinement of Platonic sentiments always sinks into the dross and feces of that
Passion. For in attempting a more natural representation of it, in the little amatory Novels,
which succeeded these heavier Volumes, tho' the Writers avoided the dryness of the Spanish
Intrigue, and the extravagance of the French Heroism, yet, by too natural a representation
of their Subject, they opened the door to a worse evil than a corruption of Taste; and that
was, A corruption of Heart.

At length, this great People (to whom, it must be owned, all Science has been infinitely indebted)
hit upon the true Secret, by which alone a deviation from strict fact, in the commerce of Man,
could be really entertaining to an improved mind, or useful to promote that Improvement. And
this was by a faithful and chaste copy of real Life and Manners: In which some of their late
Writers have greatly excelled.

It was on this sensible Plan, that the Author of the following Sheets attempted to please,
in an Essay, which had the good fortune to meet with success: That encouragement engaged him
in the present Design: In which his sole object being Human Nature; he thought himself at liberty
to draw a Picture of it in that light which would shew it with most strength of Expression;
tho' at the expense of what such as read merely for Amusement, may fancy can be ill-spared,
the more artificial composition of a story in one continued Narrative.

This is the nature and purport of his Attempt. Which, perhaps, may not be so well or generally
understood. For if the Reader seeks here for Strange Tales, Love Stories, Heroical Adventures,
or, in short, for anything but a Faithful Picture of Nature in Private Life, he had better
be told beforehand the likelihood of his being disappointed. But if he can find Use or Entertainment;
either Directions for his Conduct, or Employment for his Pity, in a HISTORY of LIFE and MANNERS,
where, as in the World itself, we find Vice, for a time, triumphant, and Virtue in distress,
an idle hour or two, we hope, may not be unprofitably lost.

MEMOIRS

OF THE

Count Du BEAUVAL,

INCLUDING

Some curious PARTICULARS

Relating to the DUKES of

Wharton and Ormond,

During their Exiles.

WITH

ANECDOTES of several other Illustrious and Unfortunate Noblemen of the present Age.

Translated from the French of the Marquis D'ARGENS, Author of The Jewish Letters.

By Mr. DERRICK.

LONDON:

Printed for M. COOPER, at the Globe in PaterNoster-Row.

M.DCC.LIV.

PREFACE.

The Ground-work of Romances, till of late Years, has been a Series of Actions, few of which,
ever existed but in the Mind of the Author; to support which, with proper Spirit, a strong
picturesque Fancy, and a nervous poetical Diction, were necessary. When these great Essentials
were wanting, the Narration became cold, insipid, and disagreeable.

The principal Hero was generally one who fac'd every Danger, without any Reflection, for it
was always beneath him to think; it was a sufficient Motive of persisting, if there seem'd
Peril; conquering Giants, and dissolving Enchantments, were as easy to him as riding. He commonly
sets out deeply in Love; his Mistress is a Virgin, he loses her in the Beginning of the Book,
thro' the Spite or Craft of some malicious Necromancer, pursues her thro' a large Folio Volume
of Incredibility, and finds her, indisputably, at the End of it, like try'd Gold, still more
charming, from having pass'd the Fire Ordeal of Temptation.

Amusement and Instruction were the Intent of these Sort of Writings; the former they always
fulfill'd, and if they sometimes fail'd in the latter, it was because the Objects they conjur'd
up to Fancy, were merely intellectual Ideas, consequently not capable of impressing so deeply
as those which are to be met with in the Bustle of Life.

