The theory is gravely advanced of a dog heaven,--not confined to the poor Indian, whose paradise
consists of happy hunting-grounds, where, of course, he will need his faithful hound to keep
him company. The main argument of white men is generally found to be the superiority of canine
virtue over the human. Whether the word "cynic" originates from a similar source I will not
undertake to say; but I have more than half a suspicion that such talk proceeds rather from
a prejudice against men than a genuine enthusiasm for dogs. This was doubtless the feeling
of the Frenchman who said, "Plus je connais l'homme, plus je préfère le chien." As to any argument
drawn from the need of compensation elsewhere for privation endured on earth, however it might
hold concerning the ancient dog, there is no foundation for the claim now; for verily the modern
dog hath his portion in this life,--and a double one, too.

I am impelled by no fanatical zeal, and have no creed or cult of my own to vindicate. I am
influenced only by a noble love of truth and a sublime sense of duty in arraying myself with
the despised minority,--perhaps I may say by a sense of fair play for the "under dog." I do
not ask the kynolatrist to "call off his dogs" altogether: I merely ask him to allow those
who do not share his enthusiasm to pass by on the other side without his setting the dogs upon
them. I would recall to the sentimentalist who goes on repeating his stock phrases and, perhaps,
like Mr. Winkle, pretending an enthusiasm which he does not feel, the wholesome advice of Dr.
Johnson, "Sir, free your mind of cant." Canon Farrar tells of a gentleman who was seated in
the smoking-room of an English hotel when a dog entered. He became violently agitated, so that
a waiter had to bend over and whisper to him, "It's a real dog." The poor fellow was subject
to a form of delirium tremens which caused him to see imaginary dogs. I fear the disease is
epidemic and is on the increase. I would kindly recall the public mind to the real dog. At
least, I would suggest that the other side be heard; for those who have had most to say on
the subject seem to me to exhibit a one-sided habit of mind, analogous to the manner of running
observable in their favorites.

It is difficult to trace the origin of this new theology, the apotheosis of the Dog. It is
certainly altogether un-Biblical. The whole tenor of Scripture is decidedly uncomplimentary
to the species. It is even proclaimed as a new commandment, "Beware of dogs." They are everywhere
presented as the symbol of all that is unclean, noisy, greedy, and dangerous. The nearest to
a compliment I can find is the saying that "a living dog is better than a dead lion." The only
good deed recorded of them is that of licking the wounds of poor Lazarus. When Hazael would
express in the strongest terms his incapability of the most shocking conduct, he asks, "Is
thy servant a dog, that he should do this thing?" Job seems to have felt that he could say
nothing more scathing of certain persons who derided him than that "their fathers I would have
disdained to set with the dogs of my flock." Instead of a dog heaven, we are told that one
of the bright distinctions and blessed securities of the New Jerusalem will be that "without
are dogs."

Nor would it seem to be a religion of nature. I find little, if any, more respect shown to
the species in mythology,--the nearest to an apotheosis being the assignment of the janitorship
of hell to a dog with three heads. Egyptian mythology found it convenient to have a dog-headed
man--Anubis--as the attendant of Isis and Osiris. The cynocephali whom the Egyptians venerated
were more properly baboons: so that their dog heaven, one might say, was only such on its face.

Language is the amber which preserves the thought of man. We need not dig far into the etymological
strata to be impressed by the unenviable place which the dog has made for himself in the tradition
and experience of our race. The name itself, and still more its variations, such as cur, hound,
puppy, and whelp, are anything but complimentary when applied to mankind; and its derivatives,
such as "dogged" and "doggerel," are not of dignified suggestion. And, mark you, these associations
with the names do not seem to "let go," any more than the dog itself from his bone.

The dog slipped into literature at a very early date after the Fall, but slunk about with his
tail between his legs, as it were, and was kicked and cursed with entire unanimity. It is difficult
to say just when his dogship began to stand up on his hind legs in literature. He has little
or no classical standing. The dog of Ulysses is, I believe, a solitary instance. Shakespeare's
"view" comes out in Lear's climacteric execration of his "dog-hearted daughters." Sir Henry
Holland once lost a bet of a guinea owing to his failure to find a dog kindly spoken of by
Shakespeare. Milton for the most part sublimely passes them by, except to embellish his "portress
at hell's gate" with a canine appendix. Goethe's aversion to them is well known. Old Dr. Watts
is an authority on moral traits, and the best word he has for them is that "dogs delight to
bark and bite, for 'tis their nature to."

Let it not be supposed that I altogether endorse this apparent conspiracy of the ages to give
the dog a bad name,--always supposing that he did not himself furnish the bad name to literature.
I am not impervious to advanced thought, and I like to see fair play. When a dog is down, and
everybody is down on him, he ought to be let up. It is no wonder that a reaction set in, as
will always be the case in extremes, and, as usual, to the opposite extreme. English literature
experienced about the beginning of this century an invasion of shepherd kings, such as Walter
Scott, Christopher North, the Ettrick Shepherd, and the like, who brought with them a great
gust of outdoor air, and with it a renaissance of the dog. But the great apostle of the new
movement was the late Dr. John Brown, of Edinburgh, whose famous "Rab and his Friends" has
inoculated the reading public with something which might be called a species of rabies. This
charming writer reminds me of certain gentle inhabitants of the asylum, who have so identified
themselves in imagination with dogs that they greet you with a bark.

We owe a debt of gratitude to these amiable enthusiasts for their demurrers to the one-sided
verdict of history and for their discoveries of exceptional dogs and of exceptional traits
in the canine character. For are we not bidden, "if there be any virtue, and if there be any
praise," to "think on these things"?

We do think of them, and we are grateful. We do not, to be sure, find ourselves starting off
incontinently to the dog-fancier's in order to present our wife with a poodle or to transform
our quiet premises into a howling wilderness, but we think better of the world as a place to
live in, and we have a higher sense of the charity and patience of human nature. Nevertheless,
while yielding to none in my tender feeling for dear Dr. Brown and his gentle fellow-kynophilists,
I am not prepared to obey the new commandment which this new canine gospel inculcates, "Love
me, love my dog."

Probably my personal acquaintance with the species has been unfortunate, but I have not happened
to meet with these superhuman creatures. I once tried, in my extreme childhood, to make a pet
of a Newfoundland pup of high degree; but the little brute sickened and killed himself one
day by eating a mess of the foulest refuse. In the village where I lived there was a crabbed
little hump-backed tailor, whose house and shop were on a corner, and with him lived a vicious
yellow bull-dog. It was a question which was the most unpopular and the most obnoxious bête
noire with the villagers. We boys took a fearful delight in stealthily approaching the little
tailor's back door in the evening, and then, with a sudden shout, taking to our heels around
the corner, whereat the yellow fiend would burst out after us, with "Bunky" close behind.

The only other dog in our village of which I have any recollection was a great animal, facetiously
known as a watch-dog, whose mission it was to lie in wait behind the house of the man he owned,
and, as soon as he heard a step upon the gravel walk or the tinkle of the door-bell, to dart
out upon the intruder with a howl and a spring. The result was that one day my father, the
most quiet and respectable of men, in attempting to pay a friendly visit, was set upon, knocked
down, throttled, and, but for timely rescue, would probably have fallen a victim to the habits
of this hospitable mansion. And from that day he left his friends to their preference of companions.
My own experiences of the premises were such that I followed for once the paternal example,
in giving them a wide berth.

My social footsteps have always been guided by a knowledge of the kennel, as well as of the
house. Even as the pastor of a human flock, I confess that I have many a time stood at men's
gates balancing the question of duty or safety before I girded up a martyr spirit and resolved
to enter. Not that I loved the sheep and lambs less, but that I hated their growling, leaping,
four-footed favorites more.

It is not a mere question of wisdom or of taste, this prevalence and idolatry of dogs. If it
were only an amiable weakness, and a matter affecting the person indulging it, some such form
of image-worship as the rage for bric-à-brac and old china, I should not take the trouble to
enter my protest. But hath not a dog teeth? Hath not a dog great, dirty paws, a venomous and
fiery tongue, and a throat which is the organ of all discords? Hath he not feet which can carry
his unpleasantnesses into other people's presence, perhaps deposit them on your lap, or cause
you to stumble and be offended and made weak by standing in your way? An ideal dog, a china
dog, a dog behind a picture-frame, the dog of literature, are not without their æsthetic side,--are
certainly things to be let alone. But the realistic, vigorously vital, intrusively affectionate,
or faithfully suspicious dog can no more be "let alone" than could Mr. Jefferson Davis and
his rebellious States once upon a time, for the simple reason that he will not let us alone.
It is as curious an exhibition of human nature to note the surprise which always seizes the
owner when one of these "faithful" creatures bites any of his friends and neighbors as is the
proverbial incapacity of the householder to admit the existence of malaria on his premises.
A little friend of mine who can hardly toddle, while visiting with his parents, was recently
sprung upon by a great house-dog and bitten seriously in the cheek. And the philosophical explanation,
which ought to have been highly satisfactory, was, "The dog dislikes children, but has never
been known to hurt grown people"!

I have alluded to the testimony of Scripture concerning dogs. Herein, at least, Science is
in accord with Revelation. It tells us that there is nothing in the osteology of this family
(Canidæ) to distinguish the domestic dog from the wolf or fox or jackal. His "brain-cavity
is small," his strong point being "his powerful muscles of mastication." His "sense of taste
is dull and coarse." He is "not as cleanly in his habits as the cat." He is "not courageous
in proportion to his strength." Let me illustrate this last point by what I saw this afternoon.
A dog about as large and strong as a young lion was barking vigorously behind a low fence at
a cat, who sat serenely on the other side, meeting his Bombastes Furioso plunges at the intervening
pickets with a contemptuous hiss and an occasional buffet with her claw upon his muzzle. I
have yet to see a dog that dares attack my goat of a year old, except when he is harnessed
to his wagon. They are not, however, afraid of sheep. And they are much more clear in their
minds about attacking children than strong men with clubs. A man is safe before them in proportion
as he is not in fear. They know a coward at once, with all a coward's instinct.

Another little peculiarity of this family in all its branches is the hydrophobia, an accomplishment
which they are very generous in imparting, and which is to be taken into account in estimating
their usefulness.

Cuvier, however, puts forward the ingenious claim--worthy of the Buckle and Taine type of scientific
speculators, who are never so happy as when they think they have accounted for the world without
the hypothesis of a God, and who naturally catch at an opportunity of reading that name backward
(or the name Dog backward, whichever you like)--that "the dog was necessary to the establishment
of human society." This startling dogma of the new kynolatry is a good illustration of the
way in which this class of theorists persist in putting the cart before the horse. The truth
is that man was necessary to the establishment of canine society. Except as human skill and
patience subdued, trained, and developed the dog, the latter was incapable of rising, and was
one of man's most dangerous foes,--the fox robbing his hen-roosts and grape-vines, the wolf
eating him and his children, and the jackal and hyena picking his bones and rifling his grave.
The same ridiculous claim of being the corner-stone of human society has been made by some
wiseacre in behalf of the goat. The plain truth is that only one animal can justly lay claim
to such a distinction. At the threshold of human society and civilization lies the slimy figure
of the snake, who persuaded man to purchase knowledge at the cost of innocence, a lesson which
has been learned by heart and been worked out in all the "history of civilization," for verily
"the trail of the serpent is over it still."

Few persons realize the comparative un-worth of the dog. There is even a hazy notion in most
minds that he is to be classed with the horse, the cow, the sheep, and the gentle swine, that
he is entitled to lift up his voice with the morn-saluting cock, or to roam with the mouse-disturbing
cat, or with that patient pair, the harnessed billy- and the lactiferous nanny-goat.[A] Hence
an enormous revenue is required for his support. For example, we are told that "the dogs in
Iowa eat enough annually to feed a hundred thousand workmen, and cost the State nine million
dollars, or double the education of all its children." I should like to know how many of these
costly and pampered creatures earn their salt. They toil not, they spin not, they contribute
neither food nor wool nor "power." There are extreme cases where they have proved serviceable
for defence and special purposes. The Laplanders are forced to make shift with them in default
of better draught-animals. There was a time when the dogs of St. Bernard were a great convenience
to the philanthropic monks,--who, by the way, never received one-hundredth part of the credit
which has been lavished by the sentimentalists upon their half-automaton assistants. The slave-hunters
have found the race still more serviceable for their ends. On great moors and lonely mountains
and in the exigencies of frontier-life, the shepherd, the hunter, and the pioneer have turned
them to account.

Far be it from me to disparage their assistance in these exceptional instances and in others
which might be named. The dog, like the bull or the frogs of Egypt, is good in his place. But
it does not follow that we should have a bull in every door-yard, nor that it was an advantage
to the land of Egypt to be covered with frogs in-doors and out. The notion that a dog is needful
for defence in settled, civilized communities is on a par with the delusion that a man is safer
for carrying a loaded pistol, more harm being done to honest people, and even to those of them
who resort to fire-arms, than to their enemies. One needs only to consider the dogs of one's
own neighborhood and compare the number of burglars they have routed with the number of children
or innocent passers-by they have scared or bitten. My experience convinces me that more houses
and hen roosts are robbed where there are dogs than where there are none. And it is easily
explained. People who have a blind trust in watch-dogs cease to watch for themselves. Moreover,
the false alarms of the dog are so numerous, and his barking so indiscriminating of the difference
between friend and foe, and even between real and imaginary persons, that his owner soon ceases
to take note of them. For who is going to get up every time the dog barks in the night? The
dog is, of course, one of the conditions to be provided for in the burglar's plan. But when
he has silenced, overpowered, or eluded the watch, he has turned the defence over to his own
side, and proceeds with a special sense of security.

At all events, I do not find that dogs are chiefly kept by those who most need to be defended,
but rather by the strong and by persons living in closely-settled neighborhoods. Nor do I find
that people affect dogs at all in the ratio or for the sake of the protection, but for the
amusement which they afford, as something to be taken care of as pets rather than to take care
of them.

The watch-dog is an admirable protection from one's friends. What a boon he is to the misanthrope!
What an isolation reigns about the home, especially in the evening, where a real savage beast
stands guard, roaming in the shadows or clanking his chain beside the path! The ingenious Mr.
Quilp turned this fact to fine account, as he escorted Sampson Brass to the door of his counting-house
on a dark night:

"Be careful how you go, my dear friend.

An exceedingly social institution, the watch-dog, and a delightful attraction to one's visitors
and would-be callers. A watch-dog indeed; for is he not the one thing to be on the watch for,
now that the day of spring-guns and man-traps is past?

It is all very well for Byron to rhapsodize about "the watch-dog's honest bark," and to think
it "sweet" when it "bays deep-mouthed welcome as we draw near home;" but when one has got inside
of that home and gone to bed, and wants to sleep off his fatigue, it is not always so sweet
to have some neighbor's watch-dog keeping up a dishonest bark at everything and nothing half
through the night. As to the moral quality of the noise, the only honest bark is that of the
mosquito, who is too sincere either to attack you without warning or to give a false alarm.
I have thrown my share of boot-jacks and other missiles at the nightly cat, and with some small
measure of success; but what boot-jack will reach the howling mastiff domiciled several doors
off, and whose owner says in effect, "Boot me, boot my dog," or the converse? And what an "aid
to reflection," which Coleridge never conceived of, is that wretched little whelp that explodes
under my study window at the critical moment of intellectual inspiration, like a pack of animated
fire-crackers! Who shall pretend to set off the occasional service which the canine voice has
rendered to man against the long and varied agonies which it has inflicted on our race? Emerson
has a fine touch of nature, which will go to many a heart, when he enumerates among the recollected
experiences of childhood "the fear of dogs." Goethe's aversion to dogs, already alluded to,
seems to have been based chiefly upon their noisiness at night. Charles Reade had a habit of
hitting the nail on the head, and never showed it more pithily than when he answered "Ouida's"
application for a name for her new pet poodle: "Call it Tonic, for it is sure to be a mixture
of bark, steal, and whine."

As to poodles and pugs, it is difficult for the masculine "man of letters" to write. Fortunately,
no member of my family has thus far evinced any symptom of the poodle mania, so akin to the
singular malady which reduced poor Titania to the abject adoration of ass-headed Bottom. Therefore
any repugnance (this is purely an ex post facto pun) on my part cannot be attributed to jealousy.
I feel that I cannot be too thankful not to be numbered among the unhappy husbands indicated
by the following recent incident:

"Hello, old man!" said a gentleman to a friend, "what's that you've got under your coat?"

"That," was the sad reply, as he brought it forth, "is my wife's little pug dog."

"What are you going to do with him? Take him somewhere and drown him?"

"I wish I might," earnestly responded the gentleman, fetching a sigh. "No, I am not going to
drown him. My wife is having a new spring suit made to harmonize with Beauty, as she is pleased
to call the disgusting little brute, and I am on my way to a dry-goods store to match him for
half a yard more of material."

Ladies will pay as much as ten dollars a week for the board of a poodle in summer. And here
is a specimen order at the inn wherein his puppyship is taking his ease:

"Room No. 122.--To the clerk of ---- Hotel: Please send to my room, for the use of my little
pet 'Watch,' a choice porter-house steak, cooked rare, and two chicken-wings, and charge to
account of Mrs. ----."

But it is not always practicable to take our "dumb companions" with us in our travels. Accordingly,
the following advertisement is said to have been recently inserted in the papers:

"Wanted, by a lady, a careful man to look after the house and be company for her dog during
her absence in Europe."

I myself lately witnessed a suggestive scene in a drawing-room car at the Grand Central Dépôt.
A portly old gentleman of opulent appearance was stepping aboard with his daughter (or wife?),
a fine specimen of Amazonian beauty, accompanied by a third member of the family, a yellow
and dirty-looking little pug with its hair in its eyes. But, alas! the latter was arrested
at the platform, according to rule, and was being conveyed to the baggage-car. I have no power
to picture the blazing indignation of his devoted mistress, or the eloquent storm with which
she assailed the officials, or the undignified haste and distress of mind into which the old
gentleman was thrown in his part of negotiator between the contending parties. The lady was
inconsolable and inexorable. She would not go without her beloved. She would never subject
him to the discomfort and indignity of the baggage-car. She would "rather ride in the common
car" herself. How the case was settled I did not see. She left the hateful drawing-room car
with her packages and her papa(?). Whether she abandoned her tour, or went into the baggage-car
to share the shame and sorrow of her poodle, or whether a compromise was effected in favor
of the "common car," I never ascertained, I trust she was not the lady of Baltimore who last
summer went insane and tried to kill herself on account of the death of her pet dog.

And this leads me to make a point in favor of dogs, at least so far as their claim to being
"so human" is concerned. There has been supposed to be nothing more distinctive of human nature
than its propensity to suicide, arising from its capacity, as it rises in civilization and
enlightenment, of finding out that life is not worth living. But a number of well-authenticated
cases have come to my observation which show that the dog is rapidly learning this supreme
accomplishment. A dog at Warwick, New York, whose master had neglected him for a new-comer,
became morose and sulky, took to watching the railway-trains with great interest, and one day
threw himself under a passing car and was crushed to death. Another, in Marseilles, whose owner
had avoided him from fear of hydrophobia, and which had been driven from the door of a friend
of his master, ran straight for the river and plunged in, never to rise till he was dead. A
Newfoundland dog on the relief-ship Bear, and two or three of the Esquimaux dogs belonging
to the relief expedition, drowned themselves deliberately, after showing great depression for
several days. Dr. Lauder Lindsay, in his "Mind in the Lower Animals," tells of a Newfoundland
that, being refused an accustomed outing with the children and being playfully whipped with
a handkerchief, took it so deeply to heart that he went and drowned himself by resolutely holding
his head under water in a shallow ditch.

But, seriously, it is a nice psychological question whether there is something human about
dogs, or something canine about men. At any rate, it may well be asked whether it is really
the dog-nature which attracts us, and not rather a somewhat of the human in the brute. For
when we see the dog in the man we are repelled.

The above is undoubtedly the most honorable, if not the most obvious, reason why the dog has
succeeded in winning the companionship, and even the affection, of so large a portion of mankind.
Another reason lies in the fact that, as a dog, he has been wonderfully improved. There is
no denying that he comes of a bad stock. As already intimated, his "family" includes, besides
himself, the wolf, the fox, and the jackal, with the hyena as a sort of step-brother. But he
has proved himself "the flower of the family," and, like all flowers, he has been "cultivated"
and developed, differentiated in species, till a grand bench-show will display all the varieties,
from little fluff balls, "small enough to put in your waistcoat-pocket," to the splendid deerhound,
valued at ten thousand dollars, with his "silver-gray hair, muscular flanks, and calm, resolute
eyes." I shall never forget coming suddenly, in the streets of Montgomery, Alabama, upon one
of the veritable bloodhounds which were employed once upon a time in tracking fugitive slaves.
His dimensions were beyond all my previous conceptions of the canine race. He impressed me
rather as an institution than an animal. And as he stood across my path in a statuesque repose,
with his red tongue and massive jaws, and a slumbering fire in his eye, I conceived a new idea
and even admiration of "brute force."

The intelligence of the dog has also been developed, notwithstanding the smallness of his brain
and his natural inferiority in this respect to many other animals, until he has almost rivalled
the feats of the learned pig and the industrious fleas. His moral character must be admitted
to have shown itself capable of great development, despite the recent effort of writers like
Mr. Robert Louis Stevenson to prove that he develops chiefly the worst and meanest traits of
human nature. His capacity for hero-worship and his patience under ill usage from the one who
has mastered him are conspicuous. He has a sublime indifference to that master's moral character,
however, being as subservient to Bill Sykes or Daniel Quilp as to Leatherstocking or Dr. John
Brown himself. This fidelity to me does not imply that he may not be highly treacherous to
others, just as his protective value to me is in proportion to his savage and perilous possibilities
to the not-me. Therefore I ought not to insist that my lovers must love my dog also. I should
rather estimate their steadfast affection for me all the more on his account.

It is argued by the dog-haters that we must not judge the whole vast and varied race of Canidæ
from a few exceptional individuals and highly-cultivated breeds. But it may be retorted that
neither are all men Shakespeares and St. Augustines. The credit is so much the greater to those
of the species which have overcome the disadvantages of a low and repulsive origin. None the
less, however, will a strict veracity of mind and speech be careful not to generalize too sweepingly
from a few particulars, and also not to make too indiscriminate and imperious a demand upon
other people's enthusiasm. Especially will it be unwise for the friends of the dog to persist
in their attempt to exalt him by depreciating man, inasmuch as man is the party to be won over
to their way of thinking. Man has, unfortunately, been endowed by his Creator with a notion
of his superiority even to the hound and the terrier, and naturally winces at the comparison,
and is in danger of being thrown to the other extreme. I myself am able to present these considerations
thus dispassionately as a friend of humanity rather than a foe to caninity; but all are not
favored with a judicial spirit.

I suspect, in fact, that this inclining of our race to these brute servitors is largely due
to the same cause which promotes the love of "horse-flesh." Man must assert his dominion over
the brutes. He wants some tangible evidence, always beside him and running at his heels, of
his superiority to something. It is a great upholder of his self-respect. It is so consoling,
amid our conscious defeats and snubbings by a proud and unmanageable world, to have at hand
a fellow-creature, strong enough to tear us in pieces, who will grovel at our feet, and quail
before our eye, and let us laugh at him while he makes a fool of himself at our bidding. Even
the most successful and superior men find herein a grateful outlet for their surplus masterfulness.

But I prefer to ascribe the tender and enthusiastic feeling which men have for their dogs not
so much to the merits of the latter as to an overflowing and supererogatory goodness in the
former. The human runs readily into the humane. Man is, after all, a loving animal, and is
disposed to lavish his affection upon all who come into the right relation and moral angle
with himself. He loves to be munificent as well as magnificent, and to be the patron of somebody
or something. He has no little magnanimity toward such as put themselves in an abject dependence
upon his honor and justice. He is ready to see all good in those who come not in competition
with himself. He has a fund of generous enthusiasm which finds too little occupation in the
world, and is glad to find or create an object for it near at hand. So that his dog, unconsciously
to himself, is seen rather in the reflection of his own light. He clothes him with those amiable
qualities which superabound in his own heart, and attributes to him a fidelity which is really
far more remarkable on his own side.

Dogs are remarkable for their dreaming capacity. A dog never seems to sleep but he dreams,
and very likely is quite unable to distinguish his waking and sleeping impressions. And is
it not altogether probable that those who have much to do with them catch the infection, so
that they view the canine race through a dream-like medium and as slumbering dogs are haunted
by imaginary flies?

But I fear lest I shall be suspected of having caught at least one quality of my subject and
of following up this scent at a wearisome length. And yet I have not begun to exhaust my theme,
and have hardly given a glimpse of its many lights and shades. Inasmuch as there is an excessive
tendency just now to show the lights only, it may have been noticed that I have rather emphasized
the shades. Perhaps I shall not have written in vain if I have succeeded in moderating the
present kynomania, surpassing in virulence even the æsthetic craze. The dog is having his day
now,--that is clear. I presume it is the order of nature, and that we must expect a season
in human history when the dog-star will rage. But it may not be unseasonable to recommend a
slight muzzle to the dog-bitten, especially of the literary gens.

    F. N. ZABRISKIE.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] By a recent decision of the Supreme Court of Maine, the judges standing six to one, it
was decided that dogs are not to be classed with domestic animals. The learned Court affirms
"that they retain in great measure their vicious habits, furnish no support to the family,
add nothing in a legal sense to the wealth of the community, and are not inventoried as property
of a debtor or dead man's estate, or as liable to taxation except under a special provision
of the statute; that when kept it is for pleasure, or, if any usefulness is obtained from them,
it is founded upon the ferocity natural to them, by which they are made to serve as a watch
or for hunting; and that while because of his attachment to his master, from which arises a
well-founded expectation of his return when lost, the law gives the owner the right of reclamation,
the owner in all other respects has only that qualified property in them which he may have
in wild animals generally."

RENA'S WARNING.

"If anything be anything," said Frederick Brent, "the Pennsylvania mountains are what Oscar
Wilde called them."

"Oh, you miserable agnostic!" exclaimed his friend Professor Helfenstein. "Can you not, in
the face of this so beautiful landscape, get rid of your eternal subjunctive mood? If, indeed!"

The two men had stopped at a high point on the road they had been traversing, and were looking
across a fair and fertile valley, flooded by the summer-morning sunlight, to the mountains
on its western rim.

A slight smile showed Brent's pleasure in arousing his companion's indignation.

"Well," said he, "my ideas of natural beauty and those of the æsthetic Wilde may be entirely
false; or the whole scene may be an optical illusion; or--Rosenduft und Maienblumen, observe
me this lovely maiden!"

"If anything be anything? You can be positive enough where a pretty girl is concerned. She
is pretty, though, and as deutsch as her ancestors were a century or two ago, when they left
the Rhineland and crossed the sea. A pure blonde German type. Tacitus would have included her
among the Non-Suevi."

Their attention had been drawn from the scenery by the approach of a young woman and a little
boy. The former was above the medium height, and was about twenty years old, but the infantile
mould of her features and the innocent look in her large blue eyes gave strangers a bewildering
impression that she was somewhere in the neighborhood of five. She was charmingly pretty in
her way, and her wide-brimmed hat of dark straw set off to full advantage the pale golden hue
of her braided hair and the delicate purity of her complexion.

Brent could not resist the temptation to accost this mild and grave young beauty. Stepping
forward as she was passing, he lifted his hat, and said, "Will you be good enough to tell me
the way to the nearest encampment of Indians?"

"Indians?" she repeated, with a timid wonder in the tones of her soft voice.

"Yes. We are Europeans, travelling in this country, and we should like to find some Indians
who will help us to hunt buffaloes. Are there many buffaloes near here? We haven't seen any
sitting on the branches of the trees as we came along."

"I don't think buffaloes could get up in the trees," said the girl in a meekly explanatory manner.

"Why, you don't mean to say that the buffaloes in this country can't climb, do you?"

"I never saw a buffalo; but I don't think they can."

She looked despairingly at her small brother, who, having not yet reached the age of six years,
was unable to afford any help in deciding a question in zoology.

"This is very interesting," said Brent, turning toward his companion. "It seems that American
buffaloes are forced to spend all their time on the ground."

"Narrheit!" growled the professor, beginning to walk away.

"Well, I'm very much obliged to you," said Brent. "Good-morning."

Then he followed his friend, who was already descending a hill in the road.

"Sister Rena, what did that man want still?" asked the little boy.

"I don't know, love," said his sister faintly. Her ideas were in a hopeless state of confusion,
and she was troubled by a fear that a lack of intelligence had made her seem disobliging.

When Brent overtook the professor, the latter said, "All Englishmen are ridiculous; and you
are a good specimen of the race. Why should you stop on the public highway and talk nothingness
to a harmless girl?"

"All Germans are prejudiced; and Professor Helfenstein is a true Deutscher," answered Brent.
"My remarks to the young Non-Sueve no doubt interested her deeply, and I fancy she will reflect
on them, as Piers Plowman says,--

    With inwit and outwit,
    Imagynyng and studie."

They were both good walkers, and, though the heat became somewhat oppressive at noon, they
did not halt until they had reached the village where they intended to pass the night. In this
place Helfenstein heard the Pennsylvania-German dialect spoken to his heart's content. After
dinner he sat on the porch of the inn for several hours, talking to a number of the indigenes
and making copious notes.

When Brent returned from a visit to one of the village stores, he found him looking over the
result of his investigations.

"Will the 'Allgemeine Zeitung' have the benefit of your researches?" asked the Englishman.

"Most like. The people at home love to have tidings of shoots from the old German lingual stock.
The dialect of this locality is a truly noteworthy one."

"I heard it spoken just now by the young blossom we met on the road this morning."

"Does she live here?"

"No. She had driven in to the village to make some purchases. Her father is one Reinfelter,
who tills the soil of his ancestral demesne over there near the mountains."

"From whom did you learn these facts?"

"From the tradesman with whom she had been talking."

"Will agnosticism let you be absolutely sure his statements are true?"

"No; and even less sure that they are untrue. It seems to me that a vast amount of credulity
is needed for positive unbelief. Do atheists ever have doubts about anything?"

"We don't sit still and say, 'Quien sabe?' like you agnostics. When nobody shall believe or
disbelieve, who will act?"

"I give it up."

With a look of profound disgust, the professor pocketed his note-book and went to seek refreshment
in the shape of beer.

Notwithstanding the difference in their ways of thinking, these two men had something in common
which furnished a strong bond of union between them. Helfenstein sometimes said to himself,
"Well, if he is a pitiable doubter, he at least doubts in earnest. This makes him better than
the miserable tric-trac men who are always ready to agree that black is white, or deny that
two and two make four, when it suits their convenience or interest."

And, in fact, though Brent often paraded his agnosticism merely to draw forth the professor's
scornful comments, he really had a humble and hopeless consciousness that if truth be visible
to any human mind it was hidden from his. The possession of an ample fortune and the lack of
family ties and active interests in life had fostered his tendency toward introspection till
it became morbid. Now, at the age of thirty, he had no positive beliefs or aims, and felt the
despairing self-contempt which inspired Hamlet's cry, "What should such fellows as I do, crawling
between earth and heaven?"

Before retiring, the travellers agreed to spend the next day in making an excursion on foot
to the neighboring mountains. But when the hour for starting arrived, Brent had not risen,
and the professor, who allowed nothing to interfere with his plans if he could help it, set
out alone.

A little before sunset he returned, full of enthusiasm over the scenery, and highly pleased
with the people in the farm-houses where he had stopped.

"They are a good, honest, kreuzbraves Volk," he said. "They have kept the old German home-feeling
all unchanged. There is a certain Bärnthaler over there at the foot of the mountains who is
worthy to be a native of the Fatherland,--a noble-looking fellow, with the lion-front of a
young Marcomannic chief."

"The Marcomanni were a Suevic race, were they not?"

"Yes; I should have known his ancestors were dark-haired Swabians even if he had not told me
so. He is something of a scholar, I should say, and he seems as true a gentleman as ever lived.
What a shame it is that his good South-German name should have been corrupted into Barndollar!"

"I heard this Barndollar's praises sounded about three hours ago."

"By whom?"

"By the father of Miss Reinfelter, the mild-eyed blonde who had her doubts about the ability
of buffaloes to climb trees. He was here this afternoon, and we became intimate in five minutes.
He told me his ancestors came from the neighborhood of Heidelberg; and when he heard I was
there last summer his expansive face was illumined with joy. He answered my questions about
the old German settlers intelligently enough; but he said nobody could tell me as much about
such matters as 'Melker Barndollar,' of whom he spoke with 'bated breath. He also invited me
to visit him."

"Shall you accept his invitation?"

"I have fully made up my mind to go; but that doesn't make it certain that I shall."

"Should you go if he possessed not a pretty daughter?"

"Probably not."

The next morning Brent rode over to the Reinfelter farm. The farm-house interested him at the
first view. It was a quaint old stone building, with four gables and a slated roof, from the
projecting windows in which the mountain-line could be seen stretching away to the southwest
and growing more and more indistinct until their faint outlines were lost on the far horizon.
Ivy concealed more than half the gray stones from sight, and fragrant pink roses were blooming
against the southern wall, while thick bushes of flowering jessamine grew on both sides of
the front door.

The visitor received a welcome which made him feel as if he had reached his own home. He had
grown so weary of wandering aimlessly around the world, and had become so disgusted with conventional
forms and ceremonies, that the peaceful home-like and simple, kindly manners of these unsophisticated
people gave him an agreeable sense of rest and freedom from restraint.

He allowed himself to be prevailed on to stay until late in the afternoon; and before his visit
ended he circumspectly inquired whether they would receive him as a boarder. The promptness
and pleasure with which both the farmer and his wife agreed to his proposal showed him that
his fear of giving offence had been entirely groundless.

When he returned to the inn, the professor informed him that on the succeeding day he was going
on to the next county.

"I shall stay in this neighborhood some time longer," said Brent.

"So? What is the especial attraction? The young woman over there where the mountains stand?"

"Perhaps; but my own motives are about the last things I should attempt to analyze."

"Well, I expect to come back this way in three months, and, if I find you here and ready to
depart, we can return to New York together."

"Like nearly all other imaginable things, what you state is not impossible."

Helfenstein went on his way the next morning, and Brent began his sojourn at the farm-house
on the same day.

The burdens of Rena Reinfelter's life immediately became very much more numerous. The Englishman
found an unfailing satisfaction in bewildering and horrifying her, and tried systematically
to find out whether there was really any limit to her patience and gentleness. He induced her
to go with him to the mountains near at hand, and took every opportunity to place himself in
positions where he was in imminent danger of falling some hundreds of feet and being dashed
to pieces on the rocks. Her dearly-beloved cat was suddenly lost to sight, and when it reappeared,
uttering meek appeals for sympathy and help, its personal adornments were as striking as they
were varied. He proved to her conclusively that all cats are utterly incapable of affection,
and that their characters are vicious and treacherous to the last degree. His favorite method,
however, was to begin by asking her some trivial question and then involve her in a net-work
of apparent self-contradictions, which filled her conscientious soul with anguish and dismay
at her own untruthfulness. Sometimes he felt a little ashamed of these amusements, and determined
to forego them; but the temptation was too great for his powers of resistance, and he soon
began transgressing again.

One morning Rena received a visit from her most intimate friend, Elsa Barndollar, who was only
fifteen years old, but, having spent the preceding season at a city boarding-school, considered
herself a grown woman with an unusually wide experience. Although passionately devoted to Rena,
she was as fond of teasing her as Brent himself. Yet as soon as the latter began indulging
himself with that diversion, she became highly indignant, and scornfully betook herself to
the garden.

When Rena had followed her thither, she gave vent to her wrath without restraint.

"That's the most hateful man I ever saw!" she exclaimed.

"Oh, no, Elsa!" said Rena deprecatingly.

"Yes, he is. He's perfectly horrid! What does he mean by teasing you as if you were a little
white kitten, or a green and yellow parrot, or some other ridiculous thing? I suppose he thinks
country-people are all idiots. I never did see the use of Englishmen, anyhow."

"Oh, he only does it for fun. He's always polite to father and mother, and little Casper thinks
he's the nicest man he ever saw."

"Oh, yes! If he's good to your relations you don't care how he treats you. It's a shame, and
he ought to be told so, too."

Rena tried to pacify her young friend, but the attempt was not successful. The latter made
her visit a very short one, and when she reached home her anger and jealousy found expression
in very vigorous terms.

Her brother visited the Reinfelters a short time afterward. His interest in the Englishman
was evidently very strong, but if he shared his sister's feelings toward him they did not prevent
his treating him with perfect courtesy.

"Helfenstein is right," thought Brent, as the young farmer rode away. "He's as handsome a fellow
as I ever saw. I wonder whether he's Sister Rena's lover so bold."

But although Melchior Barndollar was far superior to the Reinfelters in culture and in knowledge
of the world, he did not interest Brent as much as they did. The positiveness of their beliefs
was a special source of wonder to him. From the father, who had no doubt about the existence
of ghosts, to the little boy, who firmly believed in the reality of Belsnickel,--hides, horns,
and all,--they were the most frankly credulous people he had ever known. But the superstition
and anthropomorphism mingled with their faith did not make him think it less enviable. He would
have been glad to believe anything as firmly as they did the traditions which had come down
to them from their ancestors, unchallenged by doubt and unchanged by time.

One evening, after Rena had, as usual, sat beside her little brother's bed until he was sound
asleep, she joined her parents and Brent, who were sitting in the garden behind the house.

The full moon was high above the mountains, and the whole landscape was almost as distinct
as it had been before the sun went down. A whippoorwill's notes, mellowed by distance, resounded
from the farthest part of the orchard, and a tinkling chorus arose from the leaves and blades
of grass, where the myriads of nocturnal musicians were disporting themselves after the heat
and glare of the day. But the sounds made by these performers were so regular and monotonous
that they seemed merely a part of the calm summer night.

Suddenly another sound came down from the lower part of the mountains. It began with a deep,
long-drawn, hollow cry, between a howl and a moan, and then broke into a wild, piercing shriek.

The farmer started to his feet, and stood gazing in the direction from which the cry had come.

"It's only a stray dog howling," said Brent.

Reinfelter turned toward his wife, and the moonlight showed that his face was white with terror.

"De warnoong!" he said, in a low voice. "D'r geishter-shray foon de bairga!"

The woman covered her face with her hands, and began trembling and sobbing. Rena put her arms
around her mother's neck and tried to comfort her, as if she had been the mother instead of
the child.

The sound broke out again, and this time it was louder and more distinct than before. As the
melancholy echoes died away, Rena rose, and, taking her mother's hand in hers, led her toward
the house.

When they had gone, Brent said, "What do you think that sound is?"

"It's the warning still," said Reinfelter. "It's the warning of death."

"What is it made by?"

"A ghost. It goes up there in the mount'ins an' calls, an' the one it calls is soon in the
graveyard already. It's called the mother, or Rena, or me, this night."

"Maybe I was the one it meant."

"No; it only calls the Reinfelters still. It's been so ever since the Injun massacree, a long
time ago."

"Did that happen here?"

"Yes. My great-grandfather an' his oldest son was up in the mount'ins, and his wife was a-comin'
back from there by herself once. Just as she got where she could see her little children a-playin'
in the yard, three Injuns jumped out o' the woods that was nigh to the house then, an' run
into the yard an' killed the children right before her eyes. The men up there heard her scream,
an' they run down, an' found her a-layin' there where she fell, an' they thought she was dead
already. She come to herself ag'in, but after that she just sort o' pined away, an' in less
than two months she died. It's her ghost that goes up there an' calls us still."

"Did you ever hear the call before?"

"No; I never heard it myself. But the night my little girl died, nine years ago, she rose up
in bed once, an' she says, 'Who is that a-cryin' up there in the mount'ins?' We couldn't hear
nothin' still, but we knew what she had heard, an' after that we didn't have no more hope."

Brent did not think of the banshee as a positive reality, but he would not have denied that
its existence was possible, and he felt that it would be useless for him to try to shake the
farmer's faith in the tradition which had such a strong hold on his mind.

After a brief silence, he said he would take a short walk before going to bed. Leaving the
garden, he strolled toward the mountains, which rose like a vast wall above the foot-hills
at their base.

As he drew near the rising ground which marked the verge of the valley, the strange sound once
more fell on his ear, and he walked in the direction from which it came. Passing through a
grove of chestnut-trees, he reached an elevated open space, where the moonlight shone on the
almost level surface of large gray rocks. Near the middle of this clear space he saw a black,
shaggy object moving slowly about, with its lowered head turned away from him. He stepped forward
to get a closer view of this creature, and as he did so it turned its head and looked at him.
The next instant it bounded away and disappeared among the nearest trees.

"Just as I thought," said Brent to himself. "It was a dog, and a villanous-looking cur, too.
Exactly the sort of brute to howl and shriek at the moon on a night like this."

But, as he sauntered back to the house, various doubts entered his mind. He reflected that
he had seen the animal only for an instant, by moonlight and at some distance, and that he
could not be sure it was really a dog. Neither could he be confident it had uttered the mysterious
cry, for while it was within his sight it had made no sound of any kind. "Perhaps it went up
there for the same reason I did,--to find out what was going on," he thought.

As usual, he ended by informing himself that he was under no responsibility to settle the question,
and that, as far as he was concerned, it would probably remain unsettled.

The next morning he found the farmer and his wife very much depressed, but he had no hope of
being able to convince them that they had heard nothing supernatural, and thought it best to
avoid the subject. He passed the day in calling on some of the neighbors who had asked him
to visit them, and returned to the farm-house just before nightfall.

He found Rena standing at the door, and, while talking to her, he mentioned his moonlight walk.

"I saw what I took to be a stray dog up there," he said. "Perhaps it made the sound we heard."

"Was it a black dog, with rough, curly hair?" asked Rena.

"I think it was; but I couldn't see it very well. Do you know whose it is?"

"No; but this morning when I came out of the dairy a dog that looked like that was standing
in the path, a little way off, and I was thinking it might have been the same one."

As she looked away again, Brent said, "I didn't tell your father and mother about the dog I
saw, because I thought it would be well for them to forget the whole matter as soon as possible."

"Thank you," said Rena, turning her face and looking at him gratefully.

He had lost the desire to tease her, and treated her as he had never done before. Thinking
of this, not long afterward, he wondered whether a presentiment of what was coming had caused
the change, or whether it merely arose from a consciousness of the gloom which had already
settled on the household.

During his call on the Barndollars that morning, he had partly overcome Elsa's unfavorable
impression of him by treating her, to some extent, "like a grown-up woman" and showing by his
manner that he was not unconscious of the handsome young brunette's personal attractions. On
her next visit, a little more than two weeks later, she noticed that he had entirely given
up the objectionable teasings; and this removed the last obstacle in the way of her considering
him extremely "nice." She had mentally admitted, even at the first view, that he possessed
the degree of good looks and stylishness rigorously exacted from the male sex by the canons
of boarding school taste, and she now candidly acknowledged to herself that his being an Englishman
was, strictly speaking, not his own fault.

When she was ready to go, she made her adieux with an agreeable sense of having been both entertaining
and instructive. She forgot to take leave of her friend the aged and decrepit mastiff, which
was sitting just inside the hall; but he called attention to his presence by three raps of
his tail on the floor. Elsa laughed, and went through the form of shaking his huge paw,--an
attention which he acknowledged by a prolonged caudal tattoo.

"Oh, Rena!" said Elsa, stopping on the topmost step, "I forgot to tell you what happened to
our Scotch shepherd-dog, Macbeth. You know Melker and I made friends with him the first day,
but we were the only ones he'd be intimate with. Well, about two weeks ago an ugly old black
dog came prowling around the house, and when Mac went up to it it bit him and then ran away
to the mountains. Soon after that, we heard that a black dog with the hydrophobia had been
killed up there, and Derrick and Jake said they believed it was the same one. Melker was in
Philadelphia, and before he came home Mac went mad. Derrick shot at him out of the barn, and
scared him so much that he ran off down the road, and we haven't heard anything about him since."

Rena was bending over one of the jessamine-bushes, and seemed to be absorbed in removing some
dead leaves.

"Did your dog come this way, Elsa?" asked Mrs. Reinfelter nervously.

"No, indeed," replied Elsa. "He ran up the road to the village. Good-by, Kuno. I won't forget
you again."

Brent followed her down the steps to assist her in mounting, but she sprang into the saddle
without waiting for his help, and rode away at a brisk canter.

The farmer and his wife conferred together anxiously about the two mad dogs, while their little
son stood near them, listening intently to all they said. Unnoticed by them, Rena walked across
the yard and passed around the corner of the house in the direction of the garden.

Something in her manner caught Brent's attention, and in a little while he followed her. He
found her sitting in the garden; and, though she tried to keep her face turned away from him,
its death like pallor did not escape his sight. He sat down at her side and asked her to tell
him what had happened. The sympathy in his voice went straight to her heart and won her whole
confidence.

"The warning was for me," she answered, "I'm not afraid to die; but father and mother and my
little brother--"

She did not sob or make any sound, but great tears welled from her eyes, and she was unable
to go on.

When she could speak again, she told him that on the day after the warning, when she found
a black, shaggy-haired dog standing near the dairy door, she put out her hand, intending to
stroke its head, but it caught her hand with its teeth, and left a wound from which the blood
fell in large drops. The dog ran away in the direction of the Barndollar farm, and she bound
up her hand and managed to keep the wound from being noticed while it was healing, for she
was anxious to avoid increasing the anxiety her parents already felt. Only a slight scar now
remained; but Elsa's account of the mad dogs left no doubt in her mind that she was in imminent
danger of a frightful death.

Brent had once witnessed a sight which rose before his eyes many times afterward and would
not be blotted from his memory. It all came back to him now once more,--the agonized, horribly
glaring eyes, the clinched hands and quivering throat, and the convulsive sobbing and gasping
which would not cease tearing the wasted frame until death should bring the only possible help.
It made him sick at heart to think that the gentle unselfish girl who was even then forgetting
herself in her care for others would be seized by those paroxysms of frightful madness.

He knew that many people who are bitten by mad dogs escape hydrophobia entirely, but he could
not doubt that when the teeth have entered the bare flesh, and strong remedies are not instantly
applied, there is very little ground for hope.

"Was your hand entirely uncovered?" he asked.

"Yes; I never wear gloves."

With a desperate impulse to do something, he said, "I'll go to Philadelphia and bring a physician.
We can be here to-morrow."

"I'm afraid it's too late for that now," said Rena. "It would only frighten father and mother.
I want to keep them from knowing it as long as I can."

"I won't bring anybody back with me if you are unwilling; but I must go and find out what I
can do to help you."

"Do you think anything can be done to keep me from hurting anybody else?"

"I'm sure of that. I'll find out the best way to do it."

"Oh, thank you. You're so good to me!"

The earnestness of her gratitude made him think with sorrow and shame of the time when his
chief pleasure had been to make her unhappy. He could hardly believe he had really been as
selfish and heartless as he appeared in the picture rising before him now out of the unchangeable
past. His dormant human interest was awakening, and his soul was beginning to resist the tyranny
of his mind.

He was so impatient to begin his journey that he proposed setting off immediately and riding
to the nearest railroad-station. But Rena was afraid this would alarm her parents: so he agreed
to wait until the next morning and take the stage in the village.

That night Rena stayed longer than usual in the room with her little brother after he had sunk
into peaceful slumber in the midst of his small confidences and grave interrogations.

Soon after she came down, her mother said, "Rena, sing us one of the nice German songs Mr.
Brent learned you once. Sing the one about the lady that set up on the high rock an' combed
her hair with a golden comb. What did they call her still? 'De Lower Liar'?"

As Rena turned toward Brent and the lamplight fell on her face, he was sure that if she tried
to sing her voice would tell what she was trying to keep unknown.

"I don't think 'Die Lorelei' is a very lively song, Mrs. Reinfelter," said he. "Maybe I can
find some prettier ones in Philadelphia to-morrow, if I have time. I must be sure to bring
Casper something. What do you think he would like best?"

This question introduced a topic which banished all others; and when Brent looked at Rena again
he saw he had come to the rescue in good time. He was glad to think he could at least do this,
and he determined to be on the watch for such opportunities.

The result of his consultations the next day gave him very little ground for hope. All he could
depend on doing was to save Rena from suffering and prevent what she feared most by making
her insensible as soon as the madness showed signs of taking an active form.

When he had gotten what was needed for this purpose and had been fully advised as to his course
of action, he went back with a heavy heart to the farm among the mountains.

At the first opportunity he repeated to Rena all he had learned in the city, and told her what
he proposed doing. The prospect that was so dispiriting to him removed her greatest care; but
her eager thanks humiliated him as he felt his utter helplessness in the hands of fate. A sudden
fear that she might hurt him before he could make her unconscious brought back her anxiety;
but he reassured her by promising to be constantly on his guard and take every possible means
to insure his own safety.

Watching her closely as the days went by, he saw the full extent of her calm and steadfast
courage. She made no effort to hide from him her grief at the prospect of separation from those
she loved so dearly; but of anguish or terror on her own account there was never any sign.
He did not doubt that this came from her perfect faith and trust in a higher power, and, though
he could not share her feeling, it comforted him to know that she had such a strong support
as she drew near to death.

Near the close of the fifth day after his return he and Rena were standing together at the
gate in front of the house. Deep shadows were advancing up the sides of the mountains, but
their summits were still bright with the evening glow. Both of them watched the narrowing line
of light without speaking. Their minds were full of the same thoughts, and there was a sympathetic
communion between them which did not need to be expressed in words.

Hearing footsteps on the road, they looked around, and saw Melchior Barndollar coming toward
them. A large and very handsome dog of the Scotch shepherd breed was running along before him,
and when he stopped at the gate it came back and stood near him, with its intelligent brown
eyes fixed on his face.

"You have got another collie, I see," said Brent.

"No; this is the only one I've ever owned," replied Barndollar.

He had been surprised at the Englishman's remark, and he was entirely unable to account for
the effect of his answer on both the others. They turned quickly toward each other with a look
of eager interest, mingled with something else which he could not understand.

"I thought your collie went mad," said Brent.

"Oh, you heard that report, then?"

"Yes. The last time your sister was here she mentioned it. Was there nothing in it?"

"It wasn't even founded on an apparent fact," said the young farmer, smiling and looking down
at the dog, which immediately began wagging its tail so forcibly that at least one-third of
its body partook of the motion. "The men on my mother's farm have regaled themselves so often
with stories about mad dogs that they have become their pet horror. When I came home I found
that their fire from behind intrenchments had driven poor Mac off the place; though if he had
been better acquainted with their marksmanship he would probably have gone to sleep while they
were shooting at him. I went out to hunt for him, and found him at a house near the village,
as free from hydrophobia as I am. To make sure, I traced the dog that bit him back to its owner's
hut in the mountains, and found it there, sneaking around the lot and looking as vicious and
mean-spirited as ever. Its master said the dog that was shot came from the other side of the
mountains, and was worth a dozen such curs as his."

Rena stepped into the road and began stroking the dog's head and neck. As she did so, her father
came out of the house, and, seeing Barndollar at the gate, he came down to speak to him.

While the two farmers were talking, Brent walked away to a grove of oaks near the road and
a short distance below the gate. Standing among the trees as the twilight came on, he thought
over the episode which had just come to a close, and wondered at its effect on him. Instead
of pondering over the uncertainties of the case until it lost all reality to him, he had been
too much concerned to think of probabilities at all. Sensibility had overcome his agnosticism,
and he had forgotten that it was possible to doubt. He knew he had not acted philosophically;
but he felt that philosophy, compared with sympathy and self-forgetfulness, is of very slight
account.

       *       *       *       *       *

Professor Helfenstein returned to the little Pennsylvania village at the time he had indicated,
which was about the middle of October. The innkeeper told him his friend had not yet left the
farm-house, and the next morning he set out on foot to visit him there.

The mountain-woods, all arrayed in their autumn foliage, were glowing with rich, warm color.
Silvery cloud-banks heightened the deep blue of the sky, and their slowly-floating shadows
intensified the brightness of the sunlight. "Ueberall Sonnenschein!" said the nature-loving
German. "Ach, 's ist ein wunderschönes Land!"

Brent saw him enter the yard, and came to the door to meet him. The family had dispersed soon
after breakfast, and, as there was no one in the house for him to see, Helfenstein declined
going in, but stood on the door-step, describing his journeyings in the West.

"Well," said he at last, "are you ready to start with me for New York to-morrow morning, and
for Liverpool next Monday?"

"My starting for any place out of sight of these mountains," answered Brent, "depends chiefly
on the views of a certain young woman. At present the indications are that no such pilgrimage
will ever begin."

"Alle Wetter! Are you married?"

"No; but I expect to be in two weeks."

"Is it the maiden who dwells in this house?"

"The very same."

For a few moments the professor gazed in silence at the prospective bride-groom. Besides feeling
a personal interest in the case, he considered it a good subject for psychic investigation.

"My good friend," he said, with judicial calmness, "why do you wish to espouse Miss Reinfelter?"

Brent knew this question was not meant to be offensive, but was propounded in a spirit of critical
analysis. He was about to answer it with a pretence of deep gravity, when Casper came around
the corner of the house and asked him where "Sister Rena" was.

"She has gone to the village," replied Brent.

As the boy turned away, his disappointment was so evident that Brent said, "Do you want her
to do anything for you, Casper?"

"No, sir," said Casper dejectedly. "I just want her."

Brent smiled, and turned to the professor again.

"I couldn't find a better answer to your question if I thought for a week," he said. "I just
want her."

    W. W. CRANE.

MUSTER-DAY IN NEW ENGLAND.

Arms and the men we sing,--not those panoplied and helmeted according to Virgil, nor those
of our own day, armed with repeating rifles and drum-majored into popular favor, but rather
the heroes of the flint-lock and the priming-wire in the New England of two or three generations
ago, the sturdy train-bands that have left scarce one John Gilpin to tell the tale of their valor.

"Train-bands are the trustiest and most proper strength of a free people," wrote Milton, and
the colonists of Massachusetts Bay were of a like opinion, from Miles Standish down to the
humbler men of prowess. By the law of 1666, all males in the colony were required to attend
"military exercises and service." Companies were exercised six days yearly, prayer being offered
by the captain at the beginning and at the end of every "training." A regimental training was
ordered once in three years. Every company of foot was composed two-thirds of "musketeers"
and one-third of "pikemen," the pike of Connecticut being two feet shorter than the rod-pike
of England. Some of the lighter muskets were fired with a simple match, but the greater number
were supported by "rests," forked at the top and stuck into the ground. They were fired by
"match-locks," the "cock" being that part which held the burning match aloft before it was
applied to the powder in the pan. Hence "to go off half cocked" originally meant that the burning
fuse dropped into the powder pan before it was wanted. Single charges of powder were carried
by the musketeers in wooden, tin, or copper boxes, and twelve of these boxes, fitted to a belt
and slung over the left shoulder, made the "bandolier," which jingled like a band of sleigh-bells
if the boxes were metallic. The belt also secured the "primer with priming-powder," the "bullet-bag,"
the "priming-wire," and the "match-cord." The soldier being thus a slave to his weapon, we
are not surprised to note that his manual of arms was the following, from Elton's "Postures
of the Musket:"

    Stand to your arms.
    Take up your bandoliers.
    Put on your bandoliers.
    Take up your match.
    Take up your rest.
    Put the string of your rest about
    your left wrist.
    Take up your musket.
    Rest your musket.
    Poise your musket.
    Shoulder your musket.
    Unshoulder your musket and poise.
    Join your rest to the outside of your musket.
    Open your pan.
    Clear your pan.
    Prime your pan.
    Shut your pan.
    Cast off your loose corns.
    Blow off your loose corns, and bring
    about your musket to the left side.
    Trail your rest.
    Balance your musket in your left hand.
    Find out your charge.
    Open your charge.
    Charge with powder.
    Draw forth your scouring-stick.
    Turn and shorten him to an inch.
    Charge with bullet.
    Put your scouring-stick into your musket.
    Ram home your charge.
    Withdraw your scouring-stick.
    Turn and shorten him to a handful.
    Return your scouring-stick.
    Bring forward your musket and rest.
    Poise your musket and recover your rest.
    Join your rest to the outside of your musket.
    Draw forth your match.
    Blow your coal.
    Cock your match.
    Guard your pan.
    Blow the ashes from your coal.
    Open your pan.
    Present upon your rest.
    Give fire breast-high.
    Dismount your musket, joining the rest to the outside of your musket.
    Uncock and return your match.
    Clear your pan.
    Poise your musket.
    Rest your musket.
    Take your musket off the rest and set
    the butt end to the ground.
    Lay down your musket.
    Lay down your match.
    Take your rest into your right hand,
    clearing the string from your left wrist.
    Lay down your rest.
    Take off your bandoliers.
    Lay down your bandoliers.
    Here endeth the postures of the musket.

The "Postures of the Pike" gave these orders: "Handle, raise, charge, order, advance, shoulder,
port, comport, check, trail, and lay down,"--the words "your pikes" being given with every order.

Elton's "Instructions to a Company of Horsemen" were as follows:

    Horse,--i.e., mount your horse.
    Uncap your pistol-case.
    Draw your pistol.
    Order your pistol.
    Span your pistol.
    Prime your pistol.
    Shut your pan.
    Cast your pistol.
    Gage your flasque.
    Lode your pistol.
    Draw your rammer.
    Lode with bullet and ram home.
    Return your rammer.
    Pull down the cock.
    Recover your pistol.
    Present and give fire.
    Return your pistol.

Our fathers might have gone on in this lumbering way for many years if they had seen nothing
worth imitating in the red men. The Indians of King Philip's War brought out their "snap-hances,"
or flint-locks, and the colonists were not slow to see the improvement. Experimentally at first,
and afterward by a law of Massachusetts, the old pikes and heavy match-lock rifles were replaced
with lighter muskets bearing the flint. The soldier ceased to be a slave to his weapon. Tactics
were revolutionized; and the newly-developed military spirit was met by "The Complete Soldier,"
compiled from Elton, Bariff, and other authorities, and published by Nicholas Boone, of Boston,
in 1701. This, the first military book in the British colonies, directed the soldiers to appear
"with their hair, or periwigs, tied up in bags, and their hats briskly cocked." We hear also
for the first time of the "powder-horn" and the "cartouch-box." The "bagnets" that are mentioned
were of little use against the Indians, and they were scarcely known in America until the wars
with France. But with the appearance of the bayonet came also the revival of the fife, which
had been discarded in England in the time of Shakespeare. The military experiences gained in
the French wars were of immense benefit when the Continentals and the volunteers formed themselves
in line for the American Revolution. And yet the esprit de corps was contemptible; for every
movement contemplated and every order given by a superior officer had to be discussed, approved,
or disapproved by the inferior officers and by the humblest privates. It was years before the
army ceased to be a great debating-society with a sharp rivalry as to which regiment should
have the handsomest silk banner. But Steuben--the great drill-master--brought order out of
the turmoil with his "Regulations for the Discipline of the Troops of the United States," although
the evolutions in the field did not go much beyond the old-time marching that clings to the
Hartford Phalanx of to-day. An Englishman who lived in Massachusetts during the Revolution
had this to say: "The females are fond of dress and love to rule. The men are fond of the military
art. But in Connecticut the men are less so, while the women stay at home and spin."

The Revolution being over, the several States of the new republic enacted military laws of
their own. In New York every able-bodied male between eighteen and forty-five was required
to meet with his company four times in each year "for training and discipline,"--once by brigade,
once by regiment, and twice by company,--for such length of time as the governor might direct.
Similar laws were in force in the New-England States, and upon them was based the United States
law of 1792 which sought to establish a uniform militia throughout the country. The attempt
was a failure, because the President is commander-in-chief of the militia only when it is in
the actual service of the United States. The several States, therefore, kept up their ununiformed
militia until it became a laughing-stock,--an army with broom-sticks, to evade serving in which
but fifty cents a year was required,--and then the present uniformed militia arose from the
ruins. Our present inquiry concerns the militia of New England during the fifty years from
1790 to 1840. In those days the "military duty" consisted of two "company trainings" of half
a day each in May and October, and one "general training" or "regimental muster" of one day
in October. While no uniforms were required at the trainings, except to distinguish the officers,
yet there were usually enough public-spirited people in every town to furnish uniforms to the
crack company. The other company, the tatterdemalions of the town, was called "the flood-wood."
The regiment consisted of one company each of artillery, grenadiers, light infantry, and riflemen
from adjoining towns,--the cavalry being recruited wherever a farm-house could be found which
was able to stand the shock of war. Then came the flood-wood companies, outnumbering the uniformed
companies almost two to one.

The cavalry--it was before the days of Hackett and Poinsett and McClellan saddles and Solingen
sabres--appeared to treasure up the memory of "Light-Horse Harry Lee" and Major Winston of
the Legionary Cavalry that helped Mad Anthony Wayne against the Indians of the West. They had
not heard of the valor of the elder Hampton or the daring rides of Major Davies, of Kentucky.
"Tone's Tactics" was unknown to them. And yet they were admired in their black suits faced
and corded with red (the militia repudiated the colors of the regular army), and they were
a terror with their cutlasses and holsters for the brace of huge horse-pistols that they were
required to carry. The uniform of the artillery and grenadiers differed little from that of
the cavalry. The latter were topped off with helmets of red leather. Upon the hats of the flood-wood,
tin or sheet-iron plates showed the name of the company,--the L. I. standing for "Light Infantry,"--just
as you know the porter of your hotel by his badge. The riflemen wore gray spencers and gray
pantaloons. Their hats were stiff black beavers, for the comfort of a soft felt hat had not
yet been discovered. Most gorgeous of all were the men of the infantry, in their white pantaloons
and blue coats, the latter covered by cross-belts of white, to which priming-wires, brushes,
and extra flints were chained. A cap of black leather, sprung outward at the top, carried a
black feather tipped with red. The musicians, when there were any, followed the uniform of
the company which they attended, with some slight differences, like turned-over plates and
tasselled ends, to show that they were non-combatants. Altogether, as one looked at the "fuss
and feathers," the broad lapels, and the bob-tailed coats, he might well recall Thoreau's description
of the manner in which the salt cod are spread out on the fish-flakes to dry: "They were everywhere
lying on their backs, their collar-bones standing out like the lapels of a man-o'-war-man's
jacket.... If you should wrap a large salt fish around a small boy, he would have a coat of
such fashion as I have seen many a one wear at muster."

We are at the training "in the fall of the year,"--a far more important occasion than that
in the spring, because the annual "muster" is only a week or ten days ahead. It is a private
show. The uniformed infantry and the flood-wood have met at Walton Centre, but they, and all
the spectators too, are from "our town," with its various outlying settlements. Let the other
towns boast, let Stormont show her grenadiers, Leicester her riflemen, and Acton her artillery,
but when "muster-day" comes look out for Walton and her infantry. The law requires every soldier
to have a musket or rifle,--flint-lock of course,--a bayonet, a priming-wire and brush, a knapsack,
a cartridge-box, and two spare flints. The lack of any one of these may lead to a fine. The
regular order of the manual is, open pan, tear cartridge, prime, shut pan, ram down cartridge,
ready, aim, fire. But cartridges are not often to be had, and flasks must be used, with a pause
in the manual to allow the measuring of a charge. The lack of cartridges leads also to the
carrying of powder in bulk in the pantaloons pocket, so that the soldier may move quickly when
the order is given to "load and fire as fast as possible." Still more quick in his movements
will the soldier be when, led on by the excitement of the hour, he becomes careless of his
pocket-magazine and allows it to explode, with a great wreckage of hair, whiskers, and eyebrows,
though no one was ever known to lose his life thereby.

But the "evolutions" of the fall training-day make up its greatest worth. It is not enough
that squads of "our company" advance, fire, and fall back, the drummer drumming his loudest
all the while. It is mere boy's play to march in single and double files or in platoons. We
are to meet the companies from the other towns at the muster, and they must be forced to admit
our superiority in spite of themselves, or else our town will not come out ahead. Now, if there
is any one manoeuvre on which the Walton infantry prides itself, the "lock-step and sit-down"
is that one. The company is marched about in single file until a circle is formed, care being
taken that the captain shall be in the inside and the musicians on the outside. Gradually drawing
toward the centre, the circle contracts to slow music, until the whole company is in lock-step,
like a gang of convicts. At the word of command, each man seats himself in the lap of the man
behind him, and the whole company is in the attitude of frogs as they are ready to leap. The
captain, raised aloft in the middle by some convenient mackerel-keg, draws his sword, and the
tableau lasts while the music sounds the "three cheers."

Another "evolution," such as Darwin never dreamed of, is begun by facing the company to the
front in a single rank. The left hand of each man resting on his next neighbor's right shoulder,
space is taken until all the men are an arm's length apart. At a given signal they all face
to the right. The captain, "with drawn sword," followed by the music, the drum beating vigorously,
runs at double-quick time in and out of the spaces, like a very undignified performance of
the Virginia Reel. As each man is passed, he joins the rapidly-increasing file, until the whole
line expends its snake-like activity and marches off in "common time" on a straight course,
like this:

Both of these "evolutions" are calculated to inspire the enemy with terror, but the latter
especially so. On beholding it, the enemy cannot help giving applause, and in applauding he
must necessarily drop his arms. The Walton Light Infantry, equal to any emergency, may now
show their superior discipline by capturing the enemy before he can recover from his surprise
and admiration. Even the very boys on a training-day seek to terrorize the enemy with broom-sticks
and tin pans, until they become a nuisance to the older folk and are sent off to some field
to play base-ball after the old method, the "Massachusetts game," which allows the "plunking"
of a batter when he is not on his base. But the boys will claim their share of the extra cards
of gingerbread that have been laid in at the stores, and they will be on hand to see the half-day's
sport of training-day end before early tea-time with the flashing of powder and the departure
of the "sojers" for their homes.

A very different affair is the "muster-day" of the early fall, before the cold days and nights
have come to stay. The several adjoining towns, that furnish each its own company or its quota
of cavalry, take care of the "regiment," by rotation, at such a time as this. No matter how
centrally located the town may be, the grenadiers must come a long way over the hills from
Stormont, and the riflemen must leave Acton soon after midnight in order to obey the signal
of the seven-o'clock gun, which demands the presence of every company on the "parade-ground:"
it goes by the name of "the common" every other day in the year. The night marches or rides
are orderly, the more so in anticipation of what is to follow. The sun rises upon a gala-day
for the men and youth: the boys had their time at the training. Now the crowd is greater, and
there is no room for the boys, except those who live in the town where the muster is held.
The field, at a respectful distance from the regimental line, is covered with auctioneers'
stands, peddlers' wagons, refreshment-booths of rough boards, and planked platforms for dancing
to the music of the violin. It is the picture of a college town on "commencement-day," magnified
to ten times the proportions. As you stand,--no seats are allowed,--you can partake of sweet
cider, lemonade, apples, gingerbread, and pies and buns of all kinds. If you call for it, you
can have New-England rum, or its more popular substitute, "black-strap," one-half rum and the
other half molasses. Awaiting the inspection, soldiers on leave of absence mingle with the
commoners, partake of the refreshments, including the black-strap, and nod their plumes or
rattle their swords while they dance the "double shuffle" or "cut a double pigeon-wing" on
the platforms, to the great wonder of the crowd.

When the regiment gathers itself together it is a sight to behold. There are perhaps five hundred
men, all told, in two ranks. A part of them rejoice in gayly-colored uniforms, but the majority
are "the flood-wood," dressed in sheep's gray and blue jeans and armed with rifles, muskets,
and fowling-pieces of every pattern. This motley band "toe the mark,"--a small trench that
has been cut in the turf to save their reputation for alignment. Then they break into platoons,
and are inspected, man by man, by the adjutant and his aides. The inspection being over about
eleven o'clock, the colonel appears, all glorious in brass buttons, epaulets as large as tin
plates, and a cocked hat of great proportions. Once more the regiment forms in double ranks,
with presented arms. The colonel and his "staff" ride slowly down the line, turn back, and
take their stand for review. The music, just as it came from every town contributing to the
regiment, has been "pooled" and placed in the charge of a leader. It is a strange medley of
snare-, kettle-, and bass drums, of fifes, clarionets, and piccolos, with an occasional "Kent
bugle"--the predecessor of the cornet--or some other instrument of brass. It is poor music
at the best, and it cannot go far beyond marking time for the marching. But is it not better
than the simple drum and fife of a common training-day? The "full brass band," we must recollect,
is too expensive a luxury except for the most extraordinary occasions, and even then we run
the risk of hearing "Highland Mary" repeated all day long, so scant is the répertoire. The
regiment, headed by the cavalry and the music, passes the colonel and his staff. The music
wheels out of the line, gives "three cheers," and remains at the colonel's side till the regiment
has returned to its place. A hollow square is formed, in imitation of the great Napoleon at
Waterloo, and the colonel addresses his "brother-officers and fellow-soldiers" in a few fitting
words, and retires from the field.

And now comes dinner,--a most important feature of muster-day. No one has had a bite since
his breakfast at home by candle-light,--unless he has patronized the refreshment-booths. Even
then he will not allow his appetite for the noonday meal to become impaired. By previous arrangement,
each company dines by itself, or it joins forces with some friendly company and hires the services
of a caterer. The hotel of the village cannot begin to accommodate the public, whether martial
or civilian, and temporary sheds cover long lines of tables on which the feast is spread. It
is a jolly company, and the scrambling for the viands and the vintages, if there are any, is
done in a good-natured way. As the repast draws to a close and dessert is in order, the caterer
appears at the end of one of the tables in shirt-sleeves that are more than wet with perspiration.
Under his arm he holds a pile of plateless pies, just as the newsboy on the train secures a
pile of magazines. The caterer marches down the length of the table with the half-inquiring,
half-defiant announcement, "Pies, gentlemen! pies, gentlemen!" At every step he reaches for
a pie, gives it a dexterous twirl between his thumb and finger, and sends it spinning to the
recipient with a skill and accuracy of aim which would have done credit to the disk-thrower
of the ancient Romans.

The "noon gun," fired after dinner, calls the regiment back to the parade-ground. The real
work of the day is over; and now come recreation and amusement. The remarkable "evolutions"
of the several companies are shown, each town striving to outdo the others. Of course the Walton
Light Infantry will excel all the rest; but it may be no easy matter to make every one think
as we do. The newest evolution--that of the snake on training-day--certainly "brings down the
house," even if it fails to carry an admission of its superiority. When this friendly rivalry
is over, the sham fight proceeds. A rough structure of boards and boughs has been prepared
to represent a fort, and one of the companies is imprisoned therein, with little air or light,
and with no means of defence except to discharge their guns upward. The advancing regiment
fires by platoons, which wheel outward and retire to the rear to load. The artillery fires
blank charges from a neighboring hill. The sweltering soldiers within the fort are only too
glad to capitulate and let some other company take their place; the new company, in turn, to
capitulate and march out with the honors of war. Meanwhile, the cavalry--whose horses are more
used to the plough than to the din of battle--has retired to a distance, and indulges in a
sham fight on its own account. And yet, in spite of all this preparation and in spite of the
pains that have been taken to show the fancy movements of the soldiers, you will seldom see
a company that is really well drilled in the most simple movements; for drill-masters are unknown.

The sham fight goes on till toward sunset, when the regiment is dismissed at the signal of
the evening gun. And now comes the hurry to reach home. Such reckless driving, such wild racing
over the hills and along the rough roads and ledges, and such a desire to "take off somebody's
wheel," you never saw, unless you have been to a muster-day before. This is a part of the fun;
and if you do not take it as the correct thing, and enjoy it too, you might as well have stayed
away from the muster altogether.

    FREDERIC G. MATHER.

THE STORY OF A STORY.

I.

THE HEROINE.

A horse-car, for all it is so common a sight, is not without its picturesque side. To stand
on a long bridge at night, while the lights twinkle in the perspective, and watch one of these
animated servants, with its colored globular eye, come scrambling toward you, is to see a clumsy,
good-natured Caliban of this mechanical age. One of these days, when the horse-car is superseded
by some electric skipping wicker-basket or what not, the Austin Dobson of the time will doubtless
expend his light sympathy of verse on the pathetic old abandoned conveyance.

Such picturesqueness, however, is rather for one who seeks, than a view which thrusts itself
upon the merely casual observer. At any rate, another Austin,--Austin Buckingham,--who was
engaged one winter evening at the end of a long bridge in idealizing horse-cars, hit upon this
way of looking at the one he was waiting for, out of sheer desperation of intellect. He was
a young littérateur who was out of work. He was not, like other workmen in similar straits,
going from one shop to another looking for a job. Not at all. He recognized the situation.
He had only to write a clever story and he could quickly dispose of it. He had written a good
many stories in his short day. Now he wished to write another. The pity of it was that he had
no story to tell,--absolutely nothing. He had been through his note-books, but they gave him
no help; he had kept his ears open for some suggestive little incident, but the whole world
seemed suddenly given over to the dreariest commonplace. He had walked out this evening, slowly
revolving in his mind the various odds and ends which came upon demand of his rag-picking memory,
and yet nothing of value had turned up. He was tired, and determined to take a horse-car for
the rest of the way.

It was while he stood watching for the one which took him nearest to his door, that he made
the slight reflection with which this story opens. "Could I make a horse-car the hero of my
story?" he asked himself, with a petulant tone, as he thought how dismally dull he was. The
jingling car came up, and he jumped upon the rear platform, wedged his way through the men
and boys who crowded the steps and platform, and so pushed into the interior. He found half
a dozen men in various attitudes of neglect, but all hanging abjectly by the loops which a
considerate company had provided for its patrons. For his part, he preferred to brace himself
against the forward door, which gave him a position where he could watch his fellow-prisoners.

His eye fell at once on a girl for whom he always looked. He did not know her name, but, as
the saying goes, he knew her face very well. She lived on the same street where he had his
lodging, so that when they met in a horse-car they always got out together. From the regularity
with which she came out in a certain car, Buckingham had sagely concluded that she was one
of the multitude of girls who earned their living, for whom as a class he had great respect,
though he did not happen to know any single member. He liked to look at her. She was shy and
discreet in bearing; she usually entertained herself with a book, which permitted him larger
liberty of eye; and she dressed with a neatness which had an individuality: she evidently expressed
herself in her clothes. That is not all. She was undeniably pretty.

Now, our young friend had seen her in his horse-car a great many times, but never under the
conditions which existed at this time. People rarely exclaim to themselves except in novels,
but Buckingham did deliberately shout to himself, "Why, this--this is my heroine! I have only
to find a hero and a plot. I know this girl very well. I am sure I can make a story about her.
Give me a hero, give me a plot, and there is my story!"

II.

MISS MARTINDALE.

When the horse-car stopped at the foot of Grove Street, Austin Buckingham and the prospective
heroine of his story got out so nearly at the same time that when they reached the sidewalk
they were side by side. Beneath the gas-light stood a tallish man who was looking up to read
the name of the street upon the lamp. The light thus fell on his face and brought it into distinctness;
especially it disclosed a scar upon his cheek. He caught sight now of these two people, and
at once addressed Buckingham:

"Can you tell me whereabouts Mr. Martindale lives?"

Buckingham hesitated, not because he knew and did not wish to tell, but because he did not
know, but wished to, if possible, out of courtesy. He was trying to remember. The answer, however,
came a moment after from the girl, who had checked her walk upon hearing the name.

"I am going directly there," she said, and the two walked off together, the young man lifting
his broad-brimmed felt hat in acknowledgment of her civility. He lifted it by seizing the crown
in a bunch. It is difficult to lift a soft hat gracefully. Buckingham followed the pair, and
when he had reached his own door-way he continued to follow them with his eyes until they were
lost at a bend in the street. Then he entered the house where he lodged, and sat down in his
study. He was greatly pleased with this little turn in affairs.

"That is one step further in my story," he said to himself, for there was no one else to say
it to. "So she is Miss Martindale, and this young man with a scar has come to see her father
on business. He will stay to tea. The father will--what will the father do or say? I must look
out the name in the directory, so as to get some solid basis of fact about the father,--something
to avoid, of course, when I arrange him in the story. If he is a stone-cutter I must make him
a house- and sign-painter. I must disguise him so that his most intimate friend will not detect
him."

Austin Buckingham was in the most agreeable humor as he proceeded to prepare his solitary tea,
for he was a bachelor and yet he detested restaurants and boarding-houses. His dinner he needed
to buy, and eat where he bought it, but his breakfast and tea he provided in the room which
served as study and dining-room. He did not wash his dishes, it may be remarked, with the exception
of a Kaga cup which was too precious to be intrusted to his landlady.

He had set aside his tea-things, and, with a paper and pencil, was proceeding to sketch a plot
for his story, with Miss Martindale for the heroine and the young man with a scar for a hero,
when there was a knock at the door, and the servant came in, bearing a card. It contained the
name of Henry Dale Wilding, a correspondent whom he had never met, but who had begun with asking
for his autograph, and had now ended, it seems, with calling in person.

"Show him up," said the story-teller; and Mr. Wilding, who was two steps behind the servant,
instantly presented himself. His face was certainly familiar. Ah! it was the scar upon the
face which made the recognition easy.

III.

MR. WILDING.

"This is very pleasant," said Buckingham cordially, as he bade the young man lay aside his
coat and take a seat by the fire. While his guest was obeying him, the host said in an aside,--only
the aside was inaudible, contrary to the custom of asides,--"He does not recognize me. I will
draw him out."

"I was in town this evening,--in fact, in this very street," said Mr. Wilding,--"and I could
not resist the temptation to call on you."

"I am very glad you didn't," said Buckingham heartily. "It is evident you were led into it.
Have you many friends in town?"

"Not very many. I know one or two men in college. I thought at one time of coming here to college
myself. I gave that up, however, and now I am thinking of taking a special course, perhaps
in English. Indeed, that is one reason why I came to town to-day."

"Well, the college is hospitable enough. It is a great hotel, with accommodations for regular
boarders, but with reduced tickets for the table-d'hôte, and a restaurant for any one who happens
in, where one may dine à la carte."

"I have not had a classical education," said the young man.

"Very well: you can make a special point of that. Very few of our later writers have had a
classical education. Scholarship is no longer a part of general culture. It is a profession
by itself. It is scientific, not literary."

"But you had a classical education, Mr. Buckingham?"

"Yes, I had once. I don't deny that I am glad I had; but I am forced to conceal it nowadays."

"And you still read the classics," he went on, with a respectful glance at a Greek book lying
open on the table. Buckingham hastily closed the book.

"Yes, when no one is looking. But tell me about your plans. Shall you room in the college buildings?"

"I have come so late in the year that I cannot get any satisfactory rooms."

"Why not try getting a room somewhere in this neighborhood? There are students, I think, who
live on this street. I am afraid there are no vacant rooms in this house, or I would introduce
you to my landlady."

"I am not sure but I shall. In fact, I have been looking at a room farther up the street this
evening."

"Indeed! What house did you find it in?"

"I found two or three houses that had rooms to let for students. They were not boarding-houses.
I don't care to board."

"Mr. Wilding, my opinion of you rises with each sentiment you express. First you think of studying
English in a scholarly fashion; then you detest boarding. I am sure we shall be friends. I
shall invite you to take tea with me,--not to-night, for I have already had my tea, but when
you are settled in your room."

"Thank you; I accept with pleasure. I am glad you did not insist on my taking tea with you
to-night, for I have just come from tea."

"Oh! I remember you said you had friends in town."

"Yes; I have some cousins of an indefinite degree. They live on this street, and they will
make it pleasant for me. But they know very little about the college, and I ventured to call
to ask your advice about this matter of a special course. Would you try for a degree?"

Mr. Buckingham had nothing to do with the college; he was not even a graduate of this particular
one; but he dearly loved to give advice. He took down the college catalogue, and talked with
great animation for some time to his young friend, who confided to him that his ambition was
to be an author, and that he had already written several sketches of character.

"Excellent," said Buckingham to himself. "You shall be my hero; only you will write short poems.
Then nobody will detect your likeness."

Wilding stayed an hour, and then made ready to leave.

"If you are going to take the car, you are just in time," said his host, as they shook hands
by the door of his room.

"I am going first to my cousin's," said the young man.

"Oh, are you? Wait a moment. I should like a little airing. I will walk along with you." And
Buckingham, with a sudden admiration for his prompt seizure of the hour, put on his hat and coat.

IV.

THE PLAY MYSTERY.

Two young women were sitting over their worsted-work in the house numbered 17 Grove Street.

"Twenty-five, twenty-six," said the elder. "Lillie, if I were you, I would always carry one
of his books with me in the horse-car, prepared to open and read it whenever he chanced to
hang by the straps over me. He would be sure to try to read it upside down, and--"

"Nonsense, Julia! you speak exactly as if I were running after him."

"Not running, my dear, but waiting for him. Confess it; don't you make up stories about this
Mr. Buckingham? don't you call him Austin all by yourself?"

"Julia, you are shameless! I have a great mind to roll up my work and go up-stairs."

"Oh, no, Lillie. Stay here; for Henry will surely be back soon, and we shall learn exactly
how the lion looked in his den. What a singularly good piece of fortune it was that Henry should
have met you both!"

"Julia! you don't suppose that cousin of yours has been telling! You don't suppose he has mentioned
me to Mr. Buckingham!"

"It is impossible to say. You get two men talking together, and you may be sure they forget
all their promises of secrecy. Now, I shouldn't wonder if Henry were at this very moment--"

"You are simply--"

"Hark! There's Henry now."

For the door opened, and Mr. Wilding entered, the remains of a smile upon his face.

"I really should like to know, Julia," he said, "what you two ladies have been talking about.
We could almost hear. We certainly could see."

"We, Henry? Pray, who is we?"

"Why, Mr. Buckingham and I. You have certainly a most hospitable fashion of leaving your shades
up. He walked out with me after I had called on him, and he seemed to have a good deal to say
after we came to the door. There is an excellent view of the interior from the door; and Miss
Vila and you were certainly animated."

"This is really dreadful! Lillie, do you suppose he saw us talk?"

"I don't know. I feel as if he heard every word.--Mr. Wilding, I hope you didn't repeat any
of the foolish speeches your cousin made at the tea-table?"

"I was discreetness itself, Miss Vila."

"But why didn't you invite him in, Henry?" asked his cousin.

"Upon my word, this is reasonable! First I am made to promise solemnly that I won't disclose
Miss Vila's name, and then I am asked why I didn't bring him in and introduce him. He wanted
to come in, I know."

"He wanted to!"

"Yes; he tried to worm out of me who my cousin was, and he walked up here on purpose to find
out where you lived."

"How lucky there is no name on the door!" exclaimed the cousin.

"But he heard me ask for your husband's house,--did he not, Miss Vila? And why on earth you
should make such a mystery of it all I can't see."

"Do draw the shade, Julia. It makes me nervous. I feel as if he were looking in now."

"Nonsense, Lillie! he's a gentleman."

"But why do you make such a mystery of it all?" persisted the young man.

"There is no mystery," said Miss Vila stiffly. And, gathering up her work, she went up-stairs.

"It's only play mystery, Henry," said his cousin, when they were alone. "You see, Lillie Vila
has been coming out in the horse-car with him every night for a long time; and she has seen
him watching her. Of course she has seen him, but he has not seen that she has seen him. Men
are so stupid. And she knows that he has tried in vain to find out who she is. He saw her once
go into the library. She was dreadfully afraid he would come in and see her working behind
the screen; but he evidently fancied she went in to get a book. Then he is always managing
to stand or sit near her, and he peeks at her book when she is reading. He is just dying, I
know, to find out who she is."

V.

THE REAL MYSTERY.

Mr. Austin Buckingham found on his table, when he returned from his walk with Henry Wilding,
a scrap of paper. It had nothing on it but the words "The Mystery." This was the heading which
he had made for his story. He had been interrupted by his caller just as he had written the
words. He had not the remotest notion when he set them down what the mystery was which he meant
to reveal. The title now seemed like a prophecy to him. Instead, however, of jotting down an
outline of his story, he took out his note-book and wrote busily:

"I wish I knew just what I saw this evening. I had walked out with Henry Wilding, who called,
and who was going, he said, to his cousin's. Now, I will not conceal from my faithful journal
that I was moved by a desire to know just who his cousin was and where he or she lived; for
by a most fortunate chance I have found out that my maiden without a name lives, or probably
lives, at a Mr. Martindale's, on this street. I tried to draw Wilding out without betraying
my own interest, but he was very obtuse, and even seemed to be ashamed of his cousin. At any
rate, he parried my questions, and of course I could not push my curiosity. However, I got
the better of him, and walked out with him when he left. As luck would have it again, the shades
were drawn at the house where he stopped, and the bright light within made the scene perfectly
distinct. I talked on the door-step about I know not what, half hoping that Wilding would invite
me in, but really absorbed in watching two ladies who sat by a table. One was my fair unknown,
the other a lady whom I have occasionally seen, and whom I take to be Wilding's cousin,--though
this is all guess-work. Whether she is or not, she is evidently a very unpleasant sort of body,
for, whatever she said, the other was plainly exceedingly vexed and mortified. She covered
her face with her hands. At one time she made a movement as if to leave. She looked earnest
and troubled. I could vow she was about to burst into tears. Her face was very expressive.
No one who shows such sudden changes can help being a person of rare sensibility. I am almost
out of conceit of making her the heroine of my story, though, to be sure, I am not likely to
interfere with her personal rights, so long as I do not know either her name or her history.

"To come back to the pantomime which I saw through the window. It was probably by no means
so mysterious in reality as it appeared to me. Yet what could it have been? or, rather, how
can I appropriate it for my purposes? I have it! The very situation of looking through a window
shall serve as the critical point in my story, only it shall be the hero of my story, and not
an idle spectator like myself, who does the looking. The young poet, Wilding in disguise, only
walks out at night. He is a shy fellow, who even in public holds his hat, as it were, before
his face. He keeps by himself in his garret, brooding over his poems, and seeing no one, until
he almost loses the power of ordinary association with other people. When night comes, he walks,
sometimes through the night. But his loneliness has generated a desire for companionship which
he can satisfy only by ghostly intercourse. So, instead of knowing people, he imagines them,
and falls in love with his imaginations. He observes that one house looking toward the sea
always keeps its curtains drawn. He falls into the way of stealing by every night to catch
a glimpse of a fireside. There he sees a fair girl,--and I may as well draw her portrait like
that of my unknown friend,--with eyes that are downcast but when raised suddenly grow large
and lustrous, with hands that fold themselves when disengaged, with hair that peeps shyly over
the forehead, and with a figure that seems always to be listening. She becomes the world to
him. He has renounced all common association with men and women, and he peoples the world which
he has thus brushed out with shapes caught from this one girl. The very silence which separates
them makes him more quick in his imagination to invest her with the grace which her distant
presence never denies."

"Bah! what superfine nonsense I am writing!" exclaimed Buckingham, pushing his note-book aside,
but continuing to sit before his fire in revery.

VI.

THE REVERSE SIDE OF THE TAPESTRY.

Mr. Henry Wilding suited himself easily to a room in a house which stood just beyond his cousin's.
He wanted little to make him at home; for he had only pitched his tent in this university town,
and had no thought of settling in it. His wish was to get what he came for and to go again
as little encumbered with baggage as he had come. Something of this sort he had been saying,
not long after his established routine had begun, in a letter to the lady to whom he had the
good fortune to be engaged. "I never could feel settled so far from you," he went on gallantly;
"and I want only so much home at hand as will keep me from daily discontent. So it is exceedingly
convenient to have my cousin Julia next door. I feel as one might who lived over a grocery-shop:
there would be no fear of starving, at all events. When my supply of family feeling runs low,
I drop in upon Julia and lay in enough to last a few days. Her friend, who makes a home with
her, of whom I wrote in my last, does not greatly interest me. She says very little; but I
am willing to grant that she is uncommonly pretty. I don't know why I say this in such grudging
fashion. If some one else be fair to me, what care I how fair this 't other one be? Julia admires
her greatly; but I suspect she is one of the kind whom one needs to marry ever to get at. Julia
is as much married to her as one woman can be to another; and that explains why she sees so
much in her. She sometimes reports scraps of conversations which she has held with this Miss
Lillie Vila. Unless Julia makes up both sides of the conversation, her friend certainly is
intelligent, and, I am afraid, witty. I say this last because it piques me that I have never
extracted any witty remark from her.

"As for John, he is imperturbably good-natured. His profession keeps him away a good deal;
but when he is at home he seems to do nothing but read a book by the fireside and chuckle to
himself. Julia and Miss Vila both admire him greatly; but I suspect it is necessary to reconstruct
him out of imaginary material before one can get to think very highly of him. Women do this
naturally. I can always make myself humble by thinking that you do it with me.

"Buckingham is decidedly more interesting. I have not seen him since the evening I called upon
him; but as I recall him, his air, his conversation, and the shell of a room which he has been
forming about him, I constantly find something new to enjoy. He has a good deal of insight.
I am not uncomfortable when I remember how steadily he looked at me; for he is not cynical.
Indeed, I should say that he had managed to preserve an unusual amount of sentiment,--more
than is generally found in one at his time of life. I am convinced that he ought to marry;
and if he ever does, I am sure that he will give up writing stories. He is just one of those
men who will find such satisfaction in domestic life as to become indifferent to imaginative
experiences. I notice that in his stories he always seems to be groping about for some agreeable
domestic conclusion. His room shows it. It looks as if a woman had been in it, but had left
before she had put the final touch to it. She ought to come back."

VII.

MR. BUCKINGHAM MAKES A MOVE.

A week after Henry Wilding had called on Austin Buckingham, that gentleman tried to return
his call. It must be confessed that his motive was not so much a commendable desire to get
even socially with his new acquaintance, nor to give him good advice, as it was to get a nearer
view of the heroine of his story. Candor compels me to say that every evening for the week
past Buckingham had taken an airing, and always in the same direction. He had always found
the shade drawn at No. 17, and often he had caught a glimpse, as he sauntered past, of the
figure which he now knew so well. It is true that he had never again seen Miss Vila in so dramatic
a character as upon the first evening when he had discovered her en famille; but he had seen
her, not as one sees a portrait, which always looks in the same direction. In the horse-car
she had been such a portrait to him,--the "Portrait of a Lady Reading." Behind the window of
Mr. Martindale's house she had been a figure in a tableau vivant, often animated, always disclosing
some new grace of attitude, some new charm of manner. He faintly told himself that these views
enabled him to form a more distinct impression of the character of his heroine: whenever he
should have his plot ready, his heroine would in the various situations instantly appear to
him with the vividness and richness of reality.

He bethought himself that it was high time to see a little more of his hero; and so he persuaded
himself that in going to call upon him he was engaged in a strictly professional occupation.
If by any chance he should hear the rustle of the heroine's dress, why, that could not possibly
injure any impressions which he might receive of his hero's individuality. These two people
had become important factors in his story. He had not yet succeeded in sketching his plot.
He felt it all the more necessary that they should sketch it for him. He was sure that he should
readily catch at any hint which they might drop. He would therefore go into the society of
his hero--and heroine.

For, somehow or other, whenever he essayed to call up the image of his hero and make it yield
some distinct personality, the heroine would gently come to the fore. It was like going to
a party and finding the eye glancing off from every black-coated figure to the richly-draped
presence which made the party different from a town-meeting.

He was so much under the influence of all this reflex sentiment that he dressed himself with
care before he went out, and so presented himself at the door of Mr. Martindale's house. It
did not occur to him that Wilding lived anywhere else. He had taken it for granted that the
young man was still at his cousin's. So when the door was opened for him he asked if Mr. Wilding
were in, at the same time presenting his card. It chanced that the maid-servant had that day
entered Mr. Martindale's service,--not a very rare chance in any household,--and, never having
heard Mr. Wilding's name, indeed, not now hearing it, but hearing instead the name Miss Vila,
cordially welcomed the distinguished-looking visitor, and marched before him into the little
parlor, where she presented the card, on a salver which she had snatched on the way, to Miss
Vila, who was sitting with Mrs. Martindale. The two ladies were playing backgammon.

VIII.

THE INTERRUPTED GAME.

"For me!" exclaimed Miss Vila, in a dismayed undertone. "Julia!"

Mrs. Martindale glanced at the card. She rose at once, just as Mr. Buckingham entered the room
with a little hesitation in his step. As the two ladies held the backgammon-board in their
laps, one effect of the sudden movement was to send the men rolling in every direction about
the room. It was weeks before one of the men--a black one--was found.

Mr. Buckingham saw his card in Miss Vila's hands. He addressed himself to her:

"Possibly your servant misunderstood me. I asked for Mr. Wilding."

"She is a new servant," said Mrs. Martindale, and then added, with alacrity, as she seized
the accident by its nearest horn, "her mistake was probably one of the ear. She thought you
asked for Miss Vila." Mrs. Martindale had it in her to wave her hand toward the young lady,
as if showing off wax-works, and to explain, "This is Miss Vila," but Mr. Buckingham was quick
enough not to need the line upon line.

"I must beg Miss Vila's pardon. There certainly is a likeness in the names, if you spell it
with a we."

"I will speak to Mr. Wilding," said Mrs. Martindale, jerking an eyeful of mysterious intelligence
at Miss Vila and whisking out of the room.

"I hope you were just about to be beaten, Miss Vila," said Buckingham, "for I see I have spoiled
the game."

"It is nothing," said she.

She had said nothing, but she had said it with a singularly musical voice, and, after all,
it is not the significant words but the significant tones which touch one.

"No. It is nothing," he repeated. "A game may always be interrupted, because it is not the
conclusion but the playing which gives it any value. I suspect it is like the stories we read,--somebody
comes in, and we lay the book down before we come to the end. It is no great matter if we never
take it up again. We got our pleasure, not from knowing how things turned out, but from knowing
things." He blushed a little as he said this. In fact, his own inchoate story came to his mind.
Besides, Miss Vila had his card. Since she read so constantly, it was odds but she knew of
him. He blushed a little more as this thought crossed his mind.

"Do you think so?" she asked, and her downcast eyes were suddenly up-turned in full, the look
which he had often patiently watched for as he had seen her in the horse-car. "I find the end
necessary. If I stop half-way I think I have done the story-teller an injustice. I have not
given him the chance to tell me all he intended to tell me. He lets out the secret of his characters
by degrees. He could justly say to me, 'You do not know the heroine; you have not seen her
in that scene which is going to test her.'"

"You are quite right," said Buckingham, "if you really think you are under any obligation to
the story-teller."

"Why, of course I am," she exclaimed, with wide-open surprise. Then she blushed in turn,--first
a little color of half-indignant rebuke, then a warm hue as she thought of her unnecessary
earnestness, then a deep crimson as there rushed over her the sudden recollection of the hours
she had spent in Buckingham's company, and the silent admiration which she had bestowed from
the shelter of ignorance upon this gentleman who now sat composedly before her. It was by an
effort of self-control that she did not spring from her seat and leave the room. The effort
blanched her face. It was as she sat thus, her eyes cast down, her lips set, her countenance
pale, that Mrs. Martindale returned.

IX.

THE UNNECESSARY HERO.

"My cousin will be here presently," she said, as she entered the room. And then her eye fell
on Miss Vila and glanced quickly at Mr. Buckingham, who was nervously fingering his stick.
"Meanwhile," she added, with a mischievous look, "I will ask you to remain with us, as Mr.
Wilding will be obliged to see you here. Lillie, you have the gentleman's card. It seems awkward
to wait for the formality of Henry's introduction. Will you have the kindness to make us acquainted?"

Miss Vila gravely performed the ceremony.

"Your cousin is fortunate in finding friends in town, Mrs. Martindale," said Buckingham; "for
a collegian coming here freshly, especially one in a special course, is apt to be slow in breaking
through the hedge which divides the college from the town."

"Yes, he is quite fortunate," said his cousin. "I exercise an influence over him. You know
we exercise an influence over students, don't you?"

Buckingham laughed.

"I supposed that was what the town was for."

"When they are away from home and parents and all those refining influences, we serve as substitutes.
Henry is away, not so much from his parents, who are dead, as from the lady to whom he is engaged.
That is why I feel bound to exercise an influence over him." Mrs. Martindale made this explanation
with a serious air, but Buckingham, whose eye never stayed far from Miss Vila, detected that
young lady casting a reproachful, not to say indignant, glance at the speaker. Miss Vila, indeed,
made a motion as if to leave, but, with another quick blush, as if she had betrayed a secret
thought, settled again into her chair. To tell the secret, she had a sudden misgiving that
her reckless friend might take it into her head to make ingenuous revelations concerning her.

"I hope he finds his work agreeable," said Buckingham; not that he cared a straw, but by way
of keeping up his end of the conversation.

"Oh, I have no doubt he does, or he would come to see us oftener. I mean," she explained hurriedly,
"he would stay in his room less."

"He certainly takes his time now in coming down," thought the visitor. There was, however,
a movement in the passage, and Mrs. Martindale darted out. She came back immediately, looking
somewhat embarrassed.

"I am sorry," she faltered, "but I find I am mistaken. He is not in."

"I am afraid you are not exerting enough influence, Mrs. Martindale," said Buckingham pleasantly,
but somewhat perplexed in his mind at the length of time it had taken to make this discovery,
and at the hallucination which had seemed to possess his cousin's mind when she announced him
as about to appear. As for Miss Vila, she persistently refused to look up. She scarcely looked
up, indeed, when Mr. Buckingham bowed himself out, though he looked eagerly at her, in hopes
once more of catching the full light of her eyes.

She did look up, however, when the door closed behind the visitor, and she looked straight
at Mrs. Martindale. That lady answered her look with one tear and a good many words:

"Well, Lillie, if you knew how I felt at getting into such a scrape, you wouldn't look at me
as if you were an Avenging Conscience, or a Nemesis, or any of those horrid furies. No; and
you wouldn't look speechlessly sorrowful, either. Of course I ought to have told him at once
that Henry did not live here, and I ought to have sent him next door instead of sending Kate,
and I ought not to have pretended that he was coming the next moment; but of course I thought
he was at home, and then when he came I could have laughed it off; but he didn't come, and
I was too frightened to laugh it off. Oh, yes, I am a criminal of the deepest dye; but he's
introduced, Lillie, and you've introduced him to me, and we're all--we're all introduced."

X.

THE REAL HERO.

When a pile of wood has been laid upon smouldering embers, a thin curl of smoke crawls lazily
up the chimney, another follows with like indolence, and it looks after a while as if the wood
would not burn at all. Suddenly a little whiff of air enters the pile, when, presto! up blazes
the fire, and soon there is a famous glow.

It was somewhat thus with Mr. Austin Buckingham. He had been toying with the fancy of his story,
and especially of this maiden to whom his eyes had become so wonted, and had allowed himself
to look at her in so many lights, that she had gradually come to be always before him. The
figure of the hero had as gradually disappeared: it was only by an effort that he could revive
it. Suddenly he had sat a long quarter of an hour with the girl, he had heard her voice, he
had seen her smile, he had felt the graciousness of her near presence when he was not merely
at hand, but the direct object of her thought. What a world of difference there was between
sitting by her side in a crowded horse-car and sitting even half a room-breadth's away, when
they two were the only ones in the room!

By all this experience, as much perhaps by what had gone before as by what had followed suddenly
after, Buckingham now stood revealed to himself. He was ablaze with this new, tingling, searching
ardor. When he had entered the room and shut the door, he saw lying upon his table his note-book,
open as he had left it. He had been amusing himself, just before he went out, with further
suggestions for his story. He dipped his pen into the ink and drew a bold, straight line across
the page. He stood looking at the leaf,--idle fancy above the line, a blank below it.

A knock at the door, and Henry Wilding entered. Buckingham greeted him with a sudden excess
of fervor which puzzled the young man.

"I was sorry to miss finding you," he began, and then checked himself. "Not so very sorry either,
since fortune made me acquainted with--your cousin--and with Miss Vila," he added, after an
embarrassed pause.

"I don't understand," said Wilding. "Have I missed a call from you?"

"Yes. I just came from your house. Your cousin at first thought you were at home. Now I think
of it, she--"

"But I don't live at my cousin's," said Wilding.

"Where do you live, then?"

"Next door to her house."

"Oh! then she sent out for you. That explains it." And so Mr. Buckingham, intent on his own
affairs, brushed away the duplicity of the fair hostess. "But I was very glad to hear a piece
of news about you from her. Let me congratulate you. I did not know you were engaged." And
he shook Wilding's hand warmly. He was not so generous at the moment as he appeared. In reality,
he was shaking his own hand in anticipation. Wilding responded with a good-natured laugh.

"I have sometimes wondered, Mr. Buckingham," he said, "how you, who write stories of love and
marriage, should remain unmarried."

"Let us put it the other way. How can I who am unmarried write such stories? In truth, I have
a dim sense that persons like you, who know the matter by experience, must laugh inwardly at
my innocent attempts at realistic treatment."

"Why not, then, have the experience first?" said Wilding lightly.

"God forbid!" said Buckingham, with a somewhat unintelligible seriousness. "If I were ever
in love, it seems to me I should stop writing love-stories."

Now, this was just what happened, for a time at least. To any one so dead in love as Buckingham
was at this time, all circumstances are favorable. It needs but a given moment, and the hero
is on hand ready to seize it. The next night he could not ride out from the city; he must walk.
When he got beyond the bridge, he wondered that he saw no horse-cars coming toward him. He
remembered that he had seen none for some time, but now he noticed a long line of them standing
before him, pointed outward. He heard the puff of a steam fire-engine, and saw that travel
by rail was stopped by a fire. The hose crossed the track, and the incoming horse-cars were
in a long line beyond it. He looked at the cars which he had over-taken. Midway in the line
stood the one he had been accustomed to take. He caught sight of a familiar head bent over
a book. He stepped into the car and stood before Miss Vila. He bent forward, and she looked
up as he spoke:

"The cars are stopped by a fire. We may be delayed a long while. Why not walk home from here?
It is a fine night."

He spoke somewhat hurriedly. He did not know how appealingly he looked. She did, however, and
she closed her book and followed him.

The story, then, never was written, even though the heroine had been found. Everything else
had disappeared,--the hero, the mystery, the plot. Nothing was left but the heroine and--love.

    HORACE E. SCUDDER.

SHADOWS ALL.

    Shadows all!
      From the birth-robe to the pall,
      In this travesty of life,
      Hollow calm and fruitless strife,
    Whatsoe'er the actors seem,
    They are posturing in a dream;
      Fates may rise, and fates may fall,
      Shadows are we, shadows all!

    From what sphere
    Float these phantoms flickering here?
      From what mystic circle cast
      In the dim æonian Past?
    Many voices make reply,
    But they only rise to die
    Down the midnight mystery,
      While earth's mocking echoes call,
      Shadows, shadows, shadows all!

    PAUL HAMILTON HAYNE.

ROSES OF YESTERDAY AND TO-DAY.

It always seemed to me, as a child, that the birds put their hearts more wholly into their
songs in that special little corner of Paradise on the Hudson River than they did anywhere
else. Not that it was really so very little a corner, being small only in comparison with an
entire Paradise, composed of many such bits, that lines the shore of the beautiful Hudson.

It was so great a delight to the child who knew little of country pleasures to be called away
from some task or commonplace "every-day" pastime and to be told that there was an invitation
to spend an afternoon, or perhaps several days, at Professor Morse's place, "Locust Grove."

There would be the drive, leaning back in the barouche (with a feeling of easy importance lent
by the consciousness of wondrous delights to come) and looking up with a species of admiring
awe at the herculean form of the French coachman, who seemed to be concealing romantically
brigandish recollections behind his fiery black eyes and wide-spreading, ferocious moustache.
Along the dusty "South Road" we would go, under the green lights and shadows of the maple-trees,
over the two miles which stretch between Poughkeepsie town and "Locust Grove,"--past "Eastman's
Park," with its smart decorations, past the small, unambitious houses, draped with many-hued,
old-fashioned roses, that straggled along the dividing-line between the narrow restrictions
of town and the fragrant wideness of the country, where the air was cool with the breath of
the river, and the breezes brought suggestions of freshly-cut grass, just blown locust-blossoms,
and the thousand sweet, indefinable scents of the woods.

On approaching the boundaries of "the Grove," the perfume of the locust-flowers assumed due
prominence, as the name of the place implies they should, while their white clusters drooped
from the heavily-loaded branches till they fairly touched the high posts of the gate. And then
would come the drive up the dim avenue, flecked with patches of sunshine that lay like fallen
gold pieces in the dusk shadow, while if one glanced upward or on either side one saw nothing
save the arching trees,--pines and locusts, and maples no less stately,--until a space was
reached where the grove was less dense and the view widened to a stretch of velvet grass whitened
with daisies lying soft on the tops of the blades in a way to make one fancy a summer fall
of snow. At the turn of the avenue one caught a glimpse of the house, with its vine-wreathed
tower, generous piazzas, and hospitable porte-cochère, and in the background, beyond the lawn,
the river, with the blue hills on the opposite shore veiled by a light, lace like haze, just
enough of a haze to lend mystery to the distance.

The loud clattering of the horses' shoes on the stone pavement under the porte-cochère, which
informed the occupants of the house that visitors had come, seemed always to tell the youngest,
most insignificant, yet happiest of those visitors that the anticipated hour of many delights
had actually arrived. And of these delights there were to the heart of the child a thousand
and one such as could scarcely be realized or even dreamed of at the home in town. There were
the broad, shady piazzas to be walked over with dainty footfalls, lest the grown people should
be disturbed. There was the mystic retreat within the circle of a group of low-branching pines,
the secret of which one penetrated by stepping down from the front piazza at a certain place
and there insinuating one's self into a small opening, which only the initiated could discover,
among the trees. Here one had a little fragrant sanctum all one's own, carpeted with pine needles,
green and brown, and arched over by ceiling and walls of thick branches, from out of which
peeped startled robins, who soon, finding that no harm was meant them, went on with their song.
Then there was the garden, fragrant and brilliant, which one might explore when one had promised
Thomas, the presiding genius, that one would not touch his cherished sweets, for it "went to
his heart" to see a single blossom torn from its parent stem. And there were the grape-houses,
for which the place was famous far and near,--hot, and odorous of moist soil and growing vines,
among which white and purple clusters hung temptingly heavy and low.

One especial pleasure was to walk along the gravelled path that skirted the smooth, level stretch
of lawn at the back of the house, and thus to reach the brow of the hill overlooking the "farm"
and the river. There were seats on the edge of this bluff, and a large spring-board on which
one might ride and jump to one's heart's content. By following this path still farther, and
to the left, one soon deserted the well-kept lawn and found one's self on a narrow, winding
walk overhanging a deep, wooded ravine, in the depths of which a little brook ran curving about
among the ferns and daisies; and presently, far out of sight of the house, in shade so dense
as to lend a certain pleasing enchantment, one came upon a rustic summer-house, with odd, three-cornered-seats,
and a table surrounding the tree-trunk that supported the centre of the roof.

There were manifold other out-of-door enjoyments, such as visiting the pigeon-house, and, as
a rare favor, rioting in the scented hay in the loft over the barn, visiting the gardener's
wife (whose home was in that part of the old Livingston mansion which its master and time had
allowed to stand), and being permitted to draw water from the ancient well, about which hung
so many stories of generations past. How exciting it was, and with what delicious awe one listened,
when the little lady who was a fairy grandmamma instead of a fairy godmother in the household
told a certain story regarding this well! It was a story before the time of her own birth,
when two of her older sisters were very tiny girls. One day, when the mother was busy in superintending
some homely task (such as the manufacturing of the "cream cheese," perhaps, for which she was
noted), the baby of two years toddled in and began to lisp over and over the same broken words,
"Tatie in 'ell, Tatie in 'ell." She had repeated them many times, with increasing insistence,
before the busy mother realized that they possessed a meaning. "Tatie in 'ell, Tatie in 'ell,"
the little one said, pulling at her mother's gown, half crying as she spoke; and then it dawned
upon the latter that her baby had something serious to tell. She yielded to the little importunate
hands upon her dress, and followed the child out of doors to the well and there looked down.
"Katie" was indeed in the well, as the lisping tongue had tried to say, and, gazing into the
darkness below, the mother could see the frightened, pitiful little face turned up to her,
while two small hands convulsively grasped the edge of the great bucket. The husband and father
was away from home, all the men employed about the place were working at a distance, and there
was no time to lose: those frail hands must soon relax their hold, and the child was sorely
terrified and begging to be saved. As the mother hesitated, in an agony of doubt, out from
the house came a stout, elderly serving-woman, who had lived in the family for many years,
and who was especially devoted to little Kate. She had heard her mistress's cry, and, running
to look into the well, without even waiting to explain, she set about the execution of a hazardous
and original plan of rescue. Climbing over the curb, she began to descend by striding the well
and planting her feet upon the rough, protruding stones of which the sides were formed. Not
one woman in a thousand could or would have done such a thing; but this one was tall and strong,
and brave as a lion with the might of her love for little Kate. She saved the child, who had
suffered no graver injury than a thorough drenching and a fright which served as a warning
for herself and the children of her own and several generations to come.

Interesting as was this story and others told of the past, and delightful as it was to play
under the great trees, roaming at one's own sweet will all about "the Grove," better than everything
else was it to be admitted into the "sanctum sanctorum" of the place,--Professor Morse's study,--where
the master sat among his books and treasures, his kindly, clear-featured face and bright brown
eyes, framed in by silver hair and beard, shining out from the curtained dimness of the room.
There were many objects fascinating even to a child in that study, which opened out of the
family library with its store of books. The library was very good, but the study was still
better. There, under a glass case, was the first telegraph-instrument that had ever been made.
One or two of Professor Morse's early paintings hung upon the wall, and sometimes he would
display a few sketches to the older members of the party, who were naturally regardless of
the fact that there was "a chiel amang 'em, takin' notes." The crowning treat offered within
the study-walls, however, was to have the marvels of the Professor's immense and powerful microscope
displayed before our wondering gaze. There we became acquainted with the rainbow-tinted plumes
of the fly's wing and the jewels that lie hidden from ordinary ken in the pollen and petals
of the simplest blossoms. And the master of it all, to whom the marvels were as familiar as
the common objects themselves, seemed to derive a genuine pleasure from that which he bestowed
upon his guests.

When Professor Morse purchased Locust Grove, before his second marriage, he was not aware that
it had belonged to the family of the lady who was soon to become his wife. Indeed, it was not
until some friend remarked, "How delightful for you to take your bride to the old ancestral
place owned by her kindred for so many generations!" that he knew the home would possess any
associations, save those to be formed in the future, for his fiancée. But no doubt at the beginning
of their life there Locust Grove was thus rendered doubly dear to both. The old Livingston
mansion was at that time standing, much nearer to the entrance-gates than the more modern residence
inhabited by the owner's family; and the quaint well, with the stone curb, the water of which
was so remarkable for its purity that travellers came from a distance to ask the privilege
of drinking, formed an object of interest at least, if not of actual beauty, before the old
vine-grown porch. Gradually the house fell into decay, and the greater portion was torn down,
leaving but five or six rooms, with their odd, hooded windows and strangely-fashioned fireplaces
and mantels, the porch, with its broad, shallow seats, and the green-painted, "divided" front
doors, to tell the tale of what once had been the home of so much hospitality and happiness.

So all remained painted with unfading colors on the canvas of my memory, each object as I had
known and loved it when a child. And then the child went far away and grew to womanhood, having
looked on many places and "things of beauty," but, while forgetting much that belonged to the
old days, never forgot Locust Grove. The scent of the new locust-blossoms, the songs of the
birds, and the beauty of the lights and shadows dancing on the river were as vivid in recollection
as they had been in actuality; and after a severe and tedious illness it seemed that no tonic
could prove so effectual as a visit to that dear old place, not seen for years, and which I
had loved so well.

There is generally experienced a vague yet bitter disappointment in returning to a spot hallowed
by associations after an absence of any appreciable length of time. It is wellnigh impossible
for the reality to equal what has through the filtering of fancy become scarcely more than
a remembered dream.

    Nothing can be as it has been;
    Better, so call it, only--not the same.

And yet Locust Grove in 1884 looked almost as unchanged as though it had shared the slumbers
of the "Sleeping Beauty" since 1871. Only, a certain potent charm had fled with the presence
of the departed master. It was now but his pictured eyes and silver hair that lit up the dimness
of the room that had been sacred to him. The books and papers covering the desk belonged to
a later and more careless generation. The microscope stood unused under its glass case, the
sketches were lovingly laid away out of sight, and altogether a subtile change could be detected
in the atmosphere. There were things, however, about the house which perhaps had always been
there, and yet which I looked upon now with a new and keener appreciation. The picture of Professor
Morse when a child of five or six years, standing by his father, who is clad in the quaint
robes which then distinguished a Congregationalist divine, seemed to me one that might interest
others besides myself. Also the portrait of his mother, with pearls in her puffed and powdered
hair, and her beautiful bare arms holding the older child, Sidney (a baby in oddly-fashioned
long robes), was charming to look at because of its intrinsic beauty as well as the associations
attached to it. And the life-size painting of General Washington's mother,--said to be the
only one of the kind in existence,--which looked down from its broad frame over the dining-room
mantel, possessed a special fascination for me. One felt rather insignificant with that scornful
smile and those languid eyes brooding over one as one sat engaged in the discussion of soup;
and it was impossible to keep from imagining that the stiff and stately dame in her mathematically
correct white and green draperies was drawing invidious comparisons between the way one did
one's hair and the way in which she had considered it proper to arrange her abundant pale-brown
locks.

About the place itself were more changes than at first would strike the eye. The old Livingston
homestead had been razed to the ground, and smooth, emerald grass thrived upon its site, while
the chief gardener, Thomas, had been promoted to a new æsthetic cottage of the latest approved
colors and style. Even the famous well was no more; for a small and inconspicuous pump had
been put in its stead, to save unwary children from instituting a too curious search for the
"truth" popularly supposed to lie within its depths. The graperies were gone, and in their
stead nourished rose-houses,--visiting the interior of which seemed fairly to transport one
into the famous "Vale of Cashmere." Roses of all colors and all descriptions here found an
ideal home, and with their beauty served the purses of their two young masters, who superintended
their culture. It was in the early summer that I saw the place again after my long absence,
and the rose-houses of course could not be seen at their best, as they can in winter. There
are four large houses, opening into a long, narrow frame building, at one end of which is the
office where the young gentlemen managers transact their business. Here all was--and still
is, no doubt--immaculately neat, the walls adorned with colored prints and paintings of flowers,
an array of books, papers, and ledgers carefully arranged in their exact places on the desk,
and everything kept free from dust, swept and garnished. In the long, bare room from which
the office opens are stored gardening-tools, watering-cans of all shapes and descriptions (some
of which to an untutored eye present a striking resemblance to coffee-pots such as the Brobdingnag
giants might have used), baskets for packing the roses, with all their paraphernalia, earthen
pots for plants great and small, and many other utensils such as those unlearned in gardening
lore would consider uncouth in the extreme. On one side of the room stands the big table upon
which the baskets are set, and above this are ranged numerous rows of shelves. Four doors open
into the rose-houses, and at the east end is the one devoted exclusively to the culture of
Jacqueminots,--the "Jack"-house it is irreverently, if not slangily, styled. Here the glass
roof stands open all the summer long, for the breezes to blow and the soft rains to fall upon
the petted plants; and here the sunshine holds high revel, bronzing the intricate tracery of
stem and branch and turning half the leaves to shining emeralds.

It was in the "Jack"-house that I one morning found Thomas Devoy, the gardener, at work with
his great oddly-shaped shears or scissors, and detained him long enough to make a little sketch
of him among his flowers; and while I worked with pencils and paper he told me divers anecdotes
of the twenty-eight years he had spent in Professor Morse's service. "I entered service in
the old country when I was very young," he said; "and even as a little boy I was fond of gardening.
One time, when I was a child, I was going through some splendid greenhouses with the head-gardener
who took care of them. There was one very rare plant of which he was exceedingly proud, and
I begged him for a tiny slip to take home with me. But he refused; and so, in passing by, I
quietly broke off one little leaf. Some time afterward I was able to show him a plant as fine
as his own which I had raised from that one leaf, and then I told him its story."

All the fine, large Jacqueminots in the "Jack"-house were raised from one parent plant with
cuttings made about four years or so before, the gardener told me, while I, gazing in amazement
at their high-reaching branches, thought, with "Topsy," it was something to boast of that they
had "jest growed."

In the winter the rose-houses become things of beauty and a joy forever, seeming to have imprisoned
the very heart of summer within their walls, while outside--shut away from the warmth and glowing
tints of red and pink, yellow and lustrous rosy pearl--lie the snow and the ice, and through
the bare branches of the trees the wind whistles drearily.

But in the summer the aspect of the rose-houses is very different. All then is preparation
and making over for the coming autumn and winter. Some of the houses are planted with tiny
cuttings just lifting little tender sprays above the warm, moist soil. Men are at work here
and there with hammers and nails, repairing any slight damage that may have been done in previous
months. Hose-pipes coil over the floors, and one must walk by them daintily. In other houses
one would exclaim with pleasure at finding one's self in a wilderness of roses, pink, yellow,
and white, only to be told, rather contemptuously, "That is nothing. There are no roses here
now. You must wait till winter if you want something worth seeing. We have roses as large as
tea-saucers then, and any quantity of them."

Outside the buildings, and fairly surrounding them, are large square beds of hybrid roses of
many varieties, each sort planted in separate rows by itself. There are beds of cuttings also,
and one long, narrow bed of red hybrids running the entire length of the greenhouse. "Catherine
Mermet," "La Reine," "Adam," "Paul Neyron," the exquisite "La France," "John Hopper," the "Duke
of Connaught," "Niphetos," and "Perle des Jardins" are here in profusion, with others of every
shade and tint, too numerous almost to count, and the perfume arising from beds and hot-houses
is intoxicating in its strength and sweetness. Some bushes are merely set in earthen pots out
of doors; and these are supposed to be in a dormant state, undergoing the process of "drying
off," or "hardening," receiving very little water, and are to be so kept until September, when
they will be repotted and "started" for growing,--thus illustrating the truth of the saying
that there is a blessing for those who only stand and wait. But one could not help pitying
them, when one thought how their more fortunate companions with their uncramped roots were
exploring underground passages and enjoying all the freedom and moisture of the rich soil.

"During the fall and winter we are very busy in a different way," said Thomas Devoy, as he
displayed his treasures. And then he told me how every day in the later months all hands are
occupied in tending, cutting, and packing the roses which are daily expressed to a certain
New York florist. The beautiful half-blown buds are carefully cut, with long, leafy stems,
and laid in the great market-baskets standing on the table ready to receive them. Row after
row and layer after layer are laid in, sprinkled until leaves and petals sparkle with a diamond
dew. Only buds at a certain stage of unfolding are used, and the most exquisite roses with
their petals opening one pink or pearly crease too far are discarded as unfit to send away.
Tissue-paper covers the flowers as they lie ready in their baskets, then oiled paper is placed
on top, and finally a thin red oilcloth is fastened over all.

Thus from two to four hundred roses of almost every variety are daily put upon the New York
train and expressed to the florist, at whose establishment they arrive, after a few hours,
as fresh, dewy, and fragrant as when they left their parent plants.

And yet, with all these that are sent away, the home is not forgotten. Gorgeous blooms in exquisite
foreign vases adorn table, cabinet-shelf, and mantel in every inhabited room in the house,
where, among relics of the old time, the roses of yesterday and to-day meet in a rivalry so
lovely that one is at a loss in deciding the merits of their separate claims. The roses of
to-day are freshest, and it may even be fairest; yet there is a little poem which asks,--

    What's the rose that I hold to the rose that is dead?

And thus, to one who has known and loved the place in days gone by, when what has become a
mere association and memory now made its very life and soul, there is something in the suggestion
of that verse which at least lets itself be readily understood.

    ALICE KING HAMILTON.

A HOOSIER IDYL.

It was a part of the Great West which in the past fifty or seventy-five years has been transformed
from unbroken forests, the home of the red Indian and the deer, to a thickly-settled farming-country,
dotted with comfortable homes and traversed by railways and wagon-roads. Here and there in
retired districts the log cabins of the pioneers remained, and wherever one looked an horizon
of woods met his eye; but the numerous towns and villages gave evidence of a higher and ever-increasing
degree of civilization.

It was a land of rich soil and lush natural growth, without rocks or hills or swiftly-running
streams, a region of corn- and wheat-fields and orchards, of clover-pastures and melon-patches.

The human physique showed good development and abundant nourishment, but the dwellers along
the sluggish creeks sometimes had a tinge of yellow beneath the sunburn of their faces. Caste
distinctions, pride of station, were unknown here; all the people, whether their possessions
were great or small, drew their nurture from the soil, and greeted each other with a friendly
"Howdy?" when they met, conscious of perfect equality. It was much better to be poor in a place
like this than in a great city,--to have at least physical abundance if one could not have
other advantages. Elvira Hill was not conscious of being poor, though just now she was anxious
to get a country school to teach. All her life had been spent amid these familiar scenes, her
condition in life was neither worse nor better than that of her acquaintances, and it never
occurred to her to be discontented with her lot and rebel against fate. She had been brought
up on a farm, had known what it was to go after the cows of an evening, to drive them to the
barn-lot bars and milk them, to catch a horse in the pasture and saddle and ride it, to hunt
hens' nests in the hay-mow, to churn, and wash dishes, and get vegetables from the garden,
and pick the raspberries and blackberries that ripened in the fence corners along the fields
and woods. But just now she was living with her grandmother in a little brown house in the
cluster of houses called Hill's Station. There were two stores, a post-office, a blacksmith's
shop, and a mill; the mail-trains stopped here, and a daily hack carried passengers northward
two miles and a half to a larger village, Sassafrasville, where there was an excellent academy.
The national pike ran through Hill's Station, and there was a great deal of travel on this
road,--local travel of various kinds, peddlers' wagons which stopped in every town, and long
rows of white-covered movers' wagons going West to Illinois or Iowa or Kansas. What wonder,
then, that with all these advantages the people of Hill's Station thought themselves centrally
located, and watched with complaisant interest the passing trains, the daily hack, and the
teams going along the pike? That they were pleasantly located there was no doubt. Tall beech-
and sugar-maple-trees, part of the original forest, stood singly here and there and cast pleasant
islands of shade upon the expanse of sunshine, and from the fields which bordered the road
came the scent of clover-blooms.

Elvira Hill had gone to the little country schools, sometimes to the one a mile west of town,
sometimes to the one a mile east, and for the past three years had attended the Sassafrasville
Academy: so that now, at seventeen, she was considered to have a good education, and expected
to follow the example of many of the young people of that section and go to teaching. She talked
it over with her grandmother, and decided that she had better try a subscription school in
the country first; then, if she succeeded in giving satisfaction, she would apply in the winter
for the position of assistant in the Hill's Station school.

Her grandmother, placid and fair, with a cap of sheer white muslin resting on her yet brown
hair, and a pair of gold-bowed spectacles pushed up on her forehead above her kindly blue eyes,
was considered a handsome old woman, and showed few traces of the life of toil through which
she had passed. She read a great deal in a New Testament with large print, and often sat a
long time in thought, with it open on her knees. Another work which she frequently perused
was Mrs. Ellet's "Women of the Revolution," in two volumes, containing steel engravings of
stately dames in laced bodices and powdered hair.

Elvira borrowed a horse of one of the neighbors, put her grandmother's much-worn red plush
side saddle upon it, and started out in search of a school. She rode east and she rode north;
but in the first district they had a teacher already engaged, and in the second they had concluded
they wouldn't have any school that summer. Did they know of any other school where a teacher
was wanted? she inquired. No, they couldn't say they did; but she might hear of one by inquiring
further, the honest district trustees said. So she rode homeward again, in no wise discouraged,
and asked the postmaster to inquire of the farmers who came in from other neighborhoods in
regard to this matter.

He promised that he would, and a week later called her in as she was passing, and said, "There
was a man here yesterday from Buck Creek district who said they wanted a teacher in their school
this summer. You might try there. His name is Sapp, and he lives right by the school-house.
You go two miles and a half south till you come to a mud road, then two miles and a half east
till you come to a pike. You can't miss the place."

Elvira thanked him, and a little while later, when her accommodating neighbor was not using
his horse, she borrowed it again and rode forth on her quest. It had been raining, the mud
road was muddy, and clouds still hung in the sky; but the country through which she passed
was a rich, fresh green, and the fruit-orchards were in bloom. From solitary farm-houses big
dogs and little dogs issued forth to bark at the sound of her horse's feet, and bareheaded
children at this signal ran out to the gate to see who was passing.

The school-house of Buck Creek district, a neat wooden building, painted white, stood in a
grassy acre lot, bordered on two sides by thick woods, on the other two by the roads which
crossed here. In the corner diagonally across from it stood a snug cabin, with a garden around
it, a well-sweep in the rear, and a log stable not far distant. She alighted in front of it,
and was proceeding to hitch her horse, when the door opened, and a man stepped out, greeting
her with a friendly "Howdy?"

She responded, and asked if Mr. Sapp lived here.

"My name is Sapp," he said, and, tying her horse, invited her in.

There she found the rest of the family,--the mother, a grown daughter, and two half-grown sons:
they seemed friendly, but a little shy, and stood in the background while she transacted her
business.

"Yes," Mr. Sapp said, in answer to her question, "they wanted a three-months' school, but had
no teacher engaged. Had she ever taught before?"

No, she had had no experience in teaching; but she had attended the Sassafrasville Academy
several terms, and was qualified to teach the common branches,--arithmetic, grammar, and geography,
reading, writing, and spelling.

Well, he would bring her application before the other two trustees, and guessed they would
elect her: there was no other applicant. Now, about the terms: three dollars a scholar for
the term of twelve weeks was the usual rate. If she would draw up a subscription-paper, he
would take it round himself and get as many names as he could; thought he could get twelve
scholars signed, and knew that more would be sent. The children had to be kept at home in busy
times, and the farmers didn't like to bind themselves to pay the full amount for all that they
would send. He himself would sign one and send two. Charley could go all the time; but Jack
would have to help about mowing and reaping and threshing, and couldn't attend regularly.

So Elvira drew up the paper according to his dictation, and, leaving it with him, rode home
in the dusk of the evening, feeling happy over her prospects.

Her grandmother had supper ready in the little kitchen; and it tasted so good, the salt-rising
bread and butter and hash, the little tea-cakes, and the preserved pears. While the grandmother
drank her cup of tea, Elvira told her the incidents of the afternoon; and the night closed
around them as they sat secure and content in their humble home.

The great world was full of great problems which wearied and perplexed men's brains and seemed
wellnigh unsolvable, but she had solved her own little problem in her own little way, and was
at peace.

In a few days Mr. Sapp called with the subscription-paper. He had got sixteen scholars signed,--more
than he expected. That was a good prospect for a summer school. They wanted her to begin on
the following Monday; which she promised to do. Then she asked him if she could board at his
house a week or two, until she could make some arrangements to ride from home. Yes, she could;
he guessed a dollar and a half a week for board would be about the fair thing.

So, early Monday morning she bade her grandmother good-by, and, with her books under her arm,
set forth to walk to Buck Creek district. The school-house door was locked when she got there,
but a few timid country-children were sitting on the door-steps or on the fence, with their
school-books and dinner-buckets. Mr. Sapp came over and unlocked the door; then, as it was
half-past eight, Elvira rang the little bell which she found on the teacher's desk, and school
began. After taking down the children's names and ages and assigning desks to them, she heard
them read in their first, second, or third readers, and questioned them about the progress
they had made in other branches. Other children came in from time to time, until there were
twenty-two present. And when Mr. Sapp went home at "little recess," as the intermission of
fifteen minutes in the middle of the forenoon was called, he told her that her school opened
very well. "Big recess" was the intermission from twelve o'clock till half-past one. In that
time the children ate their dinners and then scattered to play in the large grassy yard or
in the shade of the adjoining woods. Elvira won their hearts by going out and playing prisoners'
base and two or three other games with them. When she rang the bell again, the children said,
"It's books now," meaning the time allotted to study and recitation, came in red and panting,
and, with the energy generated by violent exercise, got out their books and turned to their
lessons as if they meant to learn everything there. But as their blood cooled their efforts
relaxed, and they were soon looking idly around the school-room for some source of entertainment.
When Elvira called up a class to recite, the children at their seats looked and listened with
absorbed interest, till reminded by their teacher that they had lessons of their own to learn.
There was another "little recess" in the afternoon; then, at half-past four, school closed,
or "broke," as the children called it, and they rushed forth with their empty dinner-buckets
in hand, laughing and shouting and chasing each other as they started home. Some of the little
girls waited to say good-by to the school-ma'am and to kiss her, and one of them said, in a
shamefaced way, "I like you real well."

When all had gone, Elvira sprinkled and swept the floor and put her own desk in order. Then,
locking the door, she went over to Sapp's cabin, which was to be her home for a while.

Mrs. Sapp rose up from the quilt she was quilting, and, greeting Elvira cordially, invited
her to lay off her things--meaning her hat and cloak--and take a chair. Mary was in the kitchen,
a small shed-room attached to the cabin, getting supper. Elvira looked around her. The hewn
logs which formed the walls were well chinked in the cracks, and neatly whitewashed. A home-made
rag carpet covered the floor. Two beds stood foot to foot in the back part of the room, and
a third in the corner by the fireplace. On the wall, over the beds, hung various articles of
clothing,--a dozen calico dresses, several pairs of pantaloons, and coats, turned wrong side
out. In the corner, between the window and the fireplace, stood a bureau, covered with a white
muslin cloth, the borders ornamented with open-work made by drawing out the horizontal threads
in narrow strips and knotting the others together in various patterns. Over the mantel hung
an almanac, and two highly-colored pictures representing a brunette beauty and a blonde, named
Caroline and Matilda. Mrs. Sapp, meantime, was giving a biographical account of the school-children
and their parents,--saying how Mrs. Brown was bound her two little girls should get some schooling,
if she had to pay for it herself out of money she got by selling eggs and butter, and how the
Sanders children didn't have any clothes in the world besides those they wore to school, except
some old ragged ones, and how they had to change them at night as soon as they got home.

"I saw 'Tildy White at school to-day," she continued, "but I guess she won't get to come much.
Her step-mother keeps her at home and makes her work, while her own children can go all the
time. The three Mays children were there too, but you needn't care whether they come regular
or not: Mr. Mays is mighty poor pay, and I suppose you won't ever get your dues from him; but
maybe Mr. Sapp can collect it off of him some way. And Bert Mowrer was there: he's a sassy
boy. His folks don't make him mind at home at all, and 'most every teacher has trouble with
him. Mr. Redding, the teacher we had last winter, licked him with a beech gad, and he behaved
hisself after that. And there's Maggie Loper; her mother needs her at home real bad, but she'll
get to come all summer. She's the only girl, and there are six grown boys; and the family set
a heap o' store by Maggie."

This stream of talk was interrupted by the entrance of Mr. Sapp and the two boys; and soon
after Mary called them all to supper. There was hardly space to pass between the stove and
the table in the kitchen, and several splint-bottomed chairs had to be brought from the front
room; but at last all were seated, and, after Mr. Sapp said grace, conversation began in a
loud and cheerful tone. The plate of hot biscuits was first passed to Elvira, then the platter
of fried ham, then the butter, the young radishes and onions, and later the blue bowl containing
stewed dried apples. Mrs. Sapp poured out the hot coffee, saying, "Our folks want coffee three
times a day, and want it pretty strong." The sugar-bowl, containing brown sugar, was passed
around, that each one might sweeten his coffee according to his taste; then the cream-pitcher,
full of rich cream. Mr. Sapp drank three cups of coffee, and ate in proportion, and frequently
passed the meat and bread to Elvira, hospitably urging her to eat more.

After supper, Mrs. Sapp invited Elvira to come out and see her little chickens. She had sixty,
all hatched within the last two or three weeks, and another hen would come off next week with
a brood. "I've got some young turkeys, too," she said, "but they hain't done very well this
spring, because it was so rainy. Two died, and I have to look after the others to keep 'em
out of the wet grass." Then they looked at the garden, and Mrs. Sapp remarked that the boys
must stick the peas right off, went on to the milk-house,--a log shanty beyond the well,--and
finally came back to the sitting-room, where, as there was yet an hour of daylight, Mrs. Sapp
sat down to the quilting-frame. Elvira borrowed a thimble and assisted her, having only to
ply her needle and listen. The stream of talk ran on the subject of quilts, the various patterns
in which they were pieced and quilted, the Rising Sun, the Lion's Paw, and the Star of Bethlehem
being Mrs. Sapp's favorites. From the pile resting on a chair between the two beds at the back
of the cabin, quilts representing these patterns were brought and unfolded for Elvira to admire;
and each one had reminiscences connected with it which she must hear. One was pieced when Jack
was a baby, one was Mary's work and property, and another was quilted in one day by the neighbor
women on the occasion of a quilting-bee, which Mrs. Sapp proceeded to describe in all its particulars.

As darkness settled down, the other members of the family came in from their various chores,
and, as the evenings were yet cool, a fire was made in the fireplace. Then, seating himself
by one of the jambs, Mr. Sapp opened the spelling-book, and, calling Charley into the middle
of the floor, pronounced one row of words after another for him to spell, until several pages
had been gone over and not a single word missed, greatly to the pride and admiration of the
father. But by nine o'clock the fire got low, and the family began to yawn. It was time to
go to bed, and, without saying good-night, the different members retired to their allotted
quarters,--Mr. and Mrs. Sapp to the bed by the fireplace, Jack and Charley to one bed in the
back part of the room, and Mary and the school-ma'am to the other.

Thus, with few variations, the days passed until the first week of school had gone. Elvira
became better acquainted with her pupils, with the Sapp family, and, through them, with the
news and gossip of the neighborhood. One evening she found Mary, who was a young woman grown
and older than herself, standing outside the back door, crying bitterly, while her mother stood
by, talking to her with the air of one who could be liberal in some views and yield many points,
but who felt that a firm stand must be made somewhere. On explanation, it appeared that Mary
wanted to go to the nearest station on the railroad and ride to the next station east, a distance
of thirteen miles, for the purpose of making a visit; but Mrs. Sapp was not willing that she
should do so, giving as her objection that there was so much danger in riding on the cars,
adding that if Mary would wait till corn-planting was over, her father would take her through
in a wagon. She had never been on the cars herself, and could not give her consent for one
of her family to enter upon such risks. So Mary, with much disappointment, had to give up her
proposed visit for the time.

When Friday evening came, Elvira walked home to Hill's Station, feeling that she had made a
good beginning in her new work, and related to her grandmother all the incidents of the week.
On Saturday she went about among the neighbors, who were most of them farmers, to see if she
could hire a horse for the summer. All the good horses, however, were in constant use, and
could not be spared by their owners. At last, one farmer said that he had a horse which wasn't
worth much at its best, and just now had a sore head, so that he had put it out to pasture
for the summer on a farm several miles distant. She could have it to use, and be welcome, if
she would provide pasturage for it and give it now and then a few ears of corn. Elvira accepted
the offer gratefully, and he promised to have it at Hill's Station for her by another Saturday.
She boarded at Sapp's another week, and after that rode from home every morning and back every
night. Her steed did not seem to have an arch or curve in its whole body, but to be made up
of straight lines and angles. It reminded her of the corn-stalk horses she used to make when
a little girl. Its favorite gait was a slow walk, with its head in a drooping dejected attitude,
and sometimes it came to an entire stand-still, as if it had reached its journey's end. When
she was about to meet some one, or heard wheels coming behind her, she tried to urge it into
a spirited trot, and to rein it in so that its neck would have some slight appearance of a
curve; but it only threw its nose into the air, presenting a longer straight line than before,
and, after trotting a little way, it came to a sudden pause about the time the people passed
or met her. More than once she heard them laugh and felt her face burn. If she had not known
better days, she had at least known better horses, and was aware that her steed presented a
sorry appearance. The only time it displayed any life was in the morning, when she came to
catch and saddle it. Then it trotted repeatedly around the pasture-lot, occasionally sticking
its head over the top rails, as if it had a notion to jump the fence and run away. During the
day it fed on the grass in the school-house yard, and every day at noon she took it over to
Sapp's, drew water from their well, and gave it as many bucketfuls as it would drink. Elvira
carried her dinner, consisting generally of bread and butter, cold meat, and pie, in a little
basket hung on the horn of the saddle, and sometimes, when she had been trotting, found on
reaching school that part of it had fallen out on the way.

The road over which she passed every morning and evening grew familiar to her, even to the
individual trees, the mossy old stumps, the fence-corners over-grown with wild vines. The life
of the farm-houses, as daily presented to her, furnished perpetual entertainment. She came
to know every member of every family by sight, and to associate certain traits of character
with them. Some two-story white houses stood back from the road in the retirement of fruit-
and shade-trees, and seemed reserved and dignified; other smaller houses were only a few steps
removed, and had their wood-piles on the side of the road. One little new cabin in the corner
of a strip of woods especially interested Elvira. It was the home of a lately-married pair,
young folks full of energy and ambition. The husband chopped down trees, ploughed, or ditched
his land, as if he were working for a wager, and the wife was equally active and industrious.
Her bright tin milk-pans were out sunning early every morning, her churning and ironing were
done in the cool part of the forenoons, her front yard was always neatly swept, and the borders
were bright with balsams, petunias, and other flowers.

Then the world of nature unfolded every day something fresh to the solitary rider,--the blue
depths of summer sky in which great masses of dazzling white clouds were heaped, the thick
beech woods, where it was always cool and pleasant, the swamps, with their spicy fragrance,
their variety of growth, and their slow-running streams of clear brown water. The blossoming
blue-flags of May gave way in June to the fragrant wild roses, and these were followed in July
and August by ripe raspberries and blackberries, which grew plentifully along the fence-corners
and could be had for the picking.

Toward the latter part of the term, Elvira was frequently invited by her pupils to go home
with them on Friday night and spend Saturday at their house, now one girl, now another, saying,
"Miss Hill, mother said ask you to come home with us to-night." And when she went, she found
that the farmer's wife had prepared something extra for supper in expectation of her coming,--fried
chicken, and honey, and other home luxuries,--and seemed glad of the little break in the monotony
of farm-life which the school-ma'am's visit afforded. The faded family photographs and old
daguerreotypes were brought out for her entertainment, and she was told that "This is Aunt
Lizzie Barnwell: she lives in Grant County, and this is her husband, and these are her children.
This is Grandpa and Grandma Brown, and this is grandma's brother, ma's uncle. For a long time
he thought that was a cancer on his nose, but it turned out to be only a wart. And this is
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes: they used to live neighbors to us, but now they have moved to Kansas.
And this is Johnnie and Sarah and Nelson Holmes. Nelson used to be real mean: he pulled our
hair at school, and threw clods of dirt at us when we were coming home of nights, and we always
thought he stole our watermelons, and we were glad when he moved away; but we liked Sarah and
Johnnie." And so on through the list of relatives and acquaintances. On these visits Elvira
generally slept on a high feather bed in the best room, or in a little bedroom opening from
the parlor,--for not all the homes were as humble as Sapp's,--and the oldest daughter of the
family slept with her. On Saturday forenoon she often went berry-picking with the children,
crossing the corn-fields in the hot sun, climbing fences, and so gaining the thickets or woods
where the blackberry-vines grew wild, with gallons of ripe berries ready for nimble finders.
"Look out for snakes!" the children used to call to each other when deep in the bushes, but
they never saw anything more than a harmless garter-snake, or perhaps a water-snake in the
swamp. Saturday afternoons she sat and talked with the farmer's wife, assisting in the sewing
or quilting or whatever work of this kind was on hand; and when she rode home in the cool of
the evening it was always with some little delicacy in her basket for her grandmother,--a glass
tumbler of honey, a cake, some pickles or preserves, or a quart bottle of maple syrup, which
her hostess had given her at parting.

Near the end of the term, Maggie Loper invited Elvira to go home with her Friday night and
spend Saturday. "Mother says for you to come. We're going to thrash, Saturday, and we'll have
a big dinner and lots of fun." She meant that they were to thresh wheat, and it was the stir
and excitement of this event which she called fun. Elvira accepted the invitation, and went
home with Maggie at the time appointed. She felt at home among these farm festivals, and enjoyed
them, the work included, for she had as yet acted only as assistant, and had not felt the responsibility
of "cookin' for thrashers" which weighs so heavily on housewives. It is not alone the fact
that they must provide dinner and supper for fifteen or twenty hungry men, but the knowledge
that their viands will be compared, favorably or unfavorably, with those of other women in
the neighborhood. So they exert themselves to provide a variety, and load their tables with
rich food, insomuch that "goin' with the thrashers" means to farm-workers in this section a
round of sumptuous living. The Loper family rose Saturday morning while the east was red, and
did the milking and despatched breakfast earlier than usual. The threshers were coming at eight
o'clock, and they hoped to get the engine and threshing-machine in order and be well under
way at nine. Two neighbor women came over to help Mrs. Loper, and Elvira assisted Maggie in
all her tasks. Together they cleaned and scraped a tub half full of potatoes, plucked the feathers
of two fat hens, gathered a lot of beets and summer squashes, and sliced cucumbers and tomatoes
into dishes of vinegar, adding pepper and salt; they brought eggs from the barn, rousing a
protesting cackle among the hens by scaring some of them off their nests, and milk and butter
from the spring-house.

In the mean time Mrs. Loper and her two assistants, warm and red, but sustained by the importance
of the occasion, were at work in the kitchen, beating eggs and stirring sugar and butter together
for cakes, making pies, and roasting, baking, boiling, and stewing. When their other tasks
were done, Maggie and Elvira were deputed to set the table. Two long tables were placed end
to end in the shade of some maple-trees which stood near the house, and covered with white
cloths, then the plates, knives and forks, and drinking-glasses were placed in order. The Loper
supply of dishes was not sufficient, but there were two large basketfuls which had been borrowed
from neighbors for the occasion, and, by having recourse to these, the tables were furnished.
Chairs were brought from kitchen and parlor and every room in the house, but even then two
were lacking. "Never mind," said Maggie: "Joe and Will can sit on nail-kegs," referring to
two of her brothers.

The men and machinery and wagons had come early in the day, the engine drawn by two oxen, the
threshing-machine by four horses. The oxen swayed hither and thither as they were driven through
the gates and into the barn-lot, and the driver cracked his whip and cried, "You Buck! You
Berry! Gee! Haw! Whoa!" till one was ready to wonder that the bewildered animals did anything
right. At last the engine was in the desired position, and the oxen were released from their
yoke, to stand with panting sides in the shade of the barn. Then the threshing-machine was
stationed in its place, and the broad band put on which connected it with the engine. In the
mean time, those whose duty it was to haul water from the creek had brought three or four barrelfuls
to the boiler, fire had been built in the engine, and the engineer "got up steam." Two wagons
were off to the field, where the wheat still stood in shocks, and as soon as they returned,
piled high with yellow sheaves, the work began in earnest. Two men--cutters and feeders, as
they were called--received the sheaves tossed to them from the wagons, cut the withes of straw
which bound them, and pushed them evenly into the thresher. Farmer Loper himself and one of
his sons stood at the place where the grain ran out, and as fast as one bushel-measure was
filled another one was set in its place and the wheat poured into a sack. When a sack was full
it was tied up and set back out of the way. Other laborers stood at the back part of the thresher,
where the straw came out, and, with pitch-forks in hand, tossed it about until the foundation
for a stack was formed. Then they stood on the stack, rising higher as it rose, trampling the
straw and pitching it into place. The chaff and dust flew upon them until their faces, their
hat-brims, and the shoulders of their colored shirts were covered, and the perspiration streamed
from every pore. No wonder that the wives and mothers of these farmers dreaded the wash-days
after a week of threshing. There was noise and excitement enough in connection with the dust
and work,--the puffing of the engine, the whir and shake and rattle of the threshing-machine,
and the raised voices of the men calling to each other or giving orders. The engineer and the
feeders and cutters were conceded to have the most responsible positions, but the duties of
the other workers were also important. There must be water for the boiler, and the wheat must
be brought from the field fast enough to keep a constant supply on hand, the straw must be
stacked well, and the grain accurately measured. At exactly twelve o'clock the engineer blew
a long loud whistle, the band was thrown off, the wheels of the thresher ceased to revolve,
and the work came to a stand-still. Comments were exchanged on the progress made during the
forenoon and the quality of the wheat, then the tired horses were unharnessed and fed, and
Farmer Loper led the way toward the house. Here on a bench by the well were all the wash-pans
and wash-bowls the house afforded, and clean towels hung on the roller and on nails outside
the door. The men washed their hands and faces, and, by the aid of a small looking-glass hung
by the towels, and a comb attached to a string, combed their hair. To the women it was the
most exciting moment of the day. They were dishing up the dinner and putting the finishing-touches
to the table. Finally all was ready. Mrs. Loper spoke to her husband, and he said, "Come, men,
dinner's ready," and led the way to the table. He took the chair at one end, his oldest son
that at the other, and the others ranged themselves at will between.

Mrs. Loper poured out coffee in the kitchen, the neighbor women carried the cups and saucers,
Maggie waited on the table, passing the bread around first, and Elvira stood with a bunch of
peacock's feathers in her hand and kept off the flies. A boiled ham was at the head of the
table, a pair of roast fowls at the foot; between stood a long row of vegetables,--potatoes,
string-beans, squash, beets, and others,--and near the large tureens were smaller dishes,--cold-slaw,
tomatoes, cucumbers, pickles and preserves of various kinds. A large cake stood on a glass
cake-stand in the middle of the table, flanked on one side by a deep glass dish full of canned
peaches, on the other by a similar one of floating island, while all the available remaining
space was occupied by pies,--apple-pies, custard, berry-pies, cream-pies. To have a variety
of pies on a festal occasion was the ambition of every housewife, seven different kinds of
pies and three kinds of cake being not uncommon. If a map of the region where pie prevails
is ever drawn up and printed, this section of the country will be shaded unusually dark. To
have company to dinner and not set pie before them would be considered a breach of an ancient
and well-grounded custom: the best of puddings or other forms of dessert would be regarded
only as an evasion. Pie was not out of place at supper; and the instance of one family comes
to mind where steamed mince-pie for breakfast was eaten, and considered both appropriate and
delicious.

At Farmer Loper's harvest-table sweet milk and fresh buttermilk were among the drinks, but
most of the men preferred coffee, and drank it hot out of the saucers. Some sets of dishes
included tiny cup-plates, in which to set the coffee-cups that they might not stain the table-cloth;
but Mrs. Loper had none, and the men scraped their cups on the edge of the saucers before placing
them on the clean white cloth. One man drank six cups of coffee, then said he guessed he wouldn't
take any more, adding, "It's best to be moderate." At this all the men burst into a roar of
laughter, except one, who grew red in the face and ate his dinner in silence. It seemed that
while hauling that day one of his horses had balked, and in his anger he had lifted one foot
to kick it, but missed it, lost his balance, and fell. He arose from the fall somewhat ashamed,
and remarked, "It's best to be moderate." This incident had amused the others very much, and
any allusion to it caused laughter.

The women waited on the table, not in the sense of changing plates and bringing fresh courses,
for all the dinner was before them, but replenishing cups and glasses when they were empty,
refilling the vegetable-tureens and bread-plates, cutting the pies and cake and passing them
around, and serving out the canned peaches and the custard in small dishes. They were also
careful to see that the pickles and preserves were passed to every one.

With most of the men present Elvira was acquainted: they were the patrons of her school, and
found time in the midst of eating and general conversation to ask how Johnnie was a-comin'
on in his spellin', or if Annie was gettin' along well in her 'rithmetic, adding, "I'll be
wantin' her to calkilate interest for me by and by." Bert Mowrer's father inquired about his
boy, then added cheerfully, "If he don't behave, lick him,--lick him: that's what I tell every
teacher."

Farmer Loper and the engineer fell to discussing how many bushels of wheat to the acre the
neighboring farms had produced, and how many this would probably produce, with various comments
on the weather and the soil. A little farther down the table a young farmer was telling of
the speed made by his brown mare Kitty,--how she passed every team on the road, and that he
wouldn't take a hundred and fifty dollars for her; and farther still, two or three were discussing
the affairs of an absent neighbor,--how he had bought the Caldwell place, but, not being able
to pay for it, had given a mortgage, and hadn't managed the farm very well, had let the interest
run behind, they had heard, so there was a prospect of his losing it.

"I guess he won't have to give it up," said one: "the woman that raised his wife has got plenty
of money, and if he can't make it, she'll pay for the place and let them live on it. She's
helped them several times already. If he wasn't so lazy and shiftless he might have everything
in good shape."

But a conversation which was going on at the lower end of the table interested Elvira most
of all. It was about birds, including some of her favorites of the woods and fields which she
had noticed a great deal in her solitary rides that summer. The principal speaker was a young
farmer whom she had never seen before. He seemed to be acquainted with the names and habits
of all the birds which lived in that section, besides many which merely passed through it on
their way northward every spring and southward every fall.

"I have kept a record of the time of each arrival," he said, "and notes of rare birds. The
bluebird came first, and the humming-bird last. And I discovered two birds that were new to
me. One is a Northern bunting. A flock stayed one day in our orchard on their way northward
to their summer home, and I succeeded in killing and stuffing a pair. The feathers of the male
were a beautiful pink-red. The other strange bird seemed to come with the scarlet tanager,
and is much like a pee-wee in shape and size, with feathers of a greenish yellow."

"When do you find time to learn so much about birds?" asked George Loper, who knew only a few
of the more common ones,--blackbirds, crows, jays, hawks, and robins,--and had no eyes for
the variety of feathered life around him.

"I keep my eyes open as I work and as I go along the road," answered young Farmer Worth; "then
I look up their names and read something about them in a book on birds which I have. You've
no idea how much enjoyment there is in it. I have quite a collection of birds which I have
stuffed, and more than a hundred different kinds of eggs, besides my cabinet of mineral specimens.
I nailed two ladders together, and climbed thirty feet above these and got a crow's nest; and
this spring we found a hawk's nest in a high tree. We tied a stout twine to a small stone,
which we threw over the forks of the tree, and with this drew a large rope over. Then I sat
in the noose of the rope, and three boys pulled me up sixty feet to the nest. It was rather
scary, I can tell you, and I was glad to get down to the ground again; but I got the hawk's nest."

Then Elvira asked him if he could tell her the name of the bird with a yellow head, but otherwise
black plumage, which she had noticed not long before in a flock of common blackbirds; and they
were soon in an animated conversation on the subject of birds in general. Elvira had noticed
many that summer which she could describe, but whose names she did not know.

Soon the men began to leave the table, for it was not the custom to wait till all had done
eating, but for each one to go when he was ready. George Loper went away grumbling that he
couldn't see any use in learning about birds: all he wanted was for the crows and blackbirds
to keep away from the corn when it was first planted. But Elvira and young Worth talked ten
minutes longer, finding more and more that they were interested in the same subjects. Then
the women began to clear away the plates and cups and knives, and Elvira turned to assist them,
while her new acquaintance joined his companions, who were resting in the shade of the trees.
There he encountered some good-natured chaff from the younger members, who began by asking
him if he was struck with the school-ma'am. The responsibility of the threshers' dinner being
over, Mrs. Loper and her assistants sat down to the table, to eat their own dinner at ease,
and exchange remarks with each other, complimenting or criticising their cooking.

"This chicken-stuffin' is real good," said one of the neighbors to Mrs. Loper.

"Well, I don't know," said Mrs. Loper, tasting some of it on the end of her knife: "'pears
to me I put a leetle too much sage in it. But the gravy you made, Mirandy, that couldn't be
better. Didn't you see how the men kept askin' for it to be passed? And they've et up all the
summer squash and all the cream-pie. Taste some of these plum preserves, Mis' Brown, and don't
let me forget to send some to your little girls: I remember how well they like 'em. This cake
is real light and good, but I was afraid it would fall. This float would 'a' been better if
I'd had a little lemon flavor to put in it. But I guess, on the whole, the dinner went off
middlin' well." Then, seeing Elvira and Maggie sitting on the opposite side of the table, some
deeper thoughts were stirred in her motherly heart, and she began to talk of the daughter she
had lost years before: "If Lucy had lived, she'd 'a' been seventeen this spring,--just your
age; and you remind me of her sometimes. She always had such red cheeks, and was never sick
a day till she was taken down with the diphtheria."

For a while the affairs of the present were forgotten, as the old and never-wholly-healed wound
was opened afresh and she dwelt upon her bereavement; but soon the round of work must be taken
up, the dishes must be washed, the victuals set away, and supper for the threshers must be
planned and prepared. It was best so. "Time, the healer, and work, the consoler," enable us
to bear many things which in the first keen freshness of grief seem unbearable.

The threshers thought they would be done by six o'clock, so they decided not to stop for supper
at five, as was the custom, but wait for their evening meal till the work of the day was completed.
Elvira started home before this time, and good Mrs. Loper not only filled her own little basket,
but made her take a larger one packed with remains of the feast.

There were three weeks more of her school, and during that time she saw young Farmer Worth
several times. Twice she met him in the road, and once he stopped at the school-house to bring
her Wilson's book on birds, which he had promised to lend her. But the day before school closed
he came and helped Jack Sapp and some other boys make a platform in the woods, on which the
children could speak their declamations and sing their songs, and on the afternoon of the last
day of school was present in the crowd of parents, brothers, sisters, and friends assembled
on that important and, to the children, most exciting occasion. There were declamations from
the third and fourth readers,--"How big was Alexander, Pa?" and "He never smiled again," and
"Lord Ullin's Daughter,"--and Maggie Loper held the audience spell-bound by an entirely new
one, which Elvira had selected and copied for her out of a book of poems,--"The Dream of Eugene
Aram." Then there were songs, and dialogues, and two compositions, one on "Rats" and one on
"Planting Corn," which had been produced by their respective authors after much wear of brain
fibre and much blotting of writing-paper. Last of all, Elvira read one of Longfellow's poems,
after which she said that the exercises of the school were over, but that remarks from visitors
would be gladly received. Then one of the trustees arose, and said that education was a great
blessing, that he hoped the children of the present day would appreciate their advantages and
grow up to be useful men and women, adding that all the schooling he had received was three
winter terms in a log school-house, one entire end of which was occupied by the fireplace,
and which had no glass windows, the light being admitted through holes cut in the logs and
covered with greased foolscap-paper. No other remarks being offered, the audience was dismissed,
and the children began in an excited hurry to collect their possessions, and bid their teacher
good-by as if for a life-long parting. Some of them even shed tears, and this occasioned the
cynical remark from a by-stander, "Them Mays children needn't to take on so: the school-ma'am
will have to call at their house often enough before she gits her money."

Soon the spot was deserted, and the squirrels came down from the trees to retake possession
of their old haunts, to scamper across the platform, to sniff at the fallen rose-petals of
the bouquets, and to nibble the crumbs of cake and bread dropped from the lunch-baskets.

The next outing for the people of Buck Creek neighborhood was the county fair, which occurred
in September. They went in spring-wagons, in farm-wagons, in buggies, and on horseback, starting
early in the morning, and taking an ample supply of provisions for themselves as well as feed
for their horses.

The sunshine poured down hot upon them, and there was much dust, but they were happy. There
were crowds of people from all the surrounding country; there were displays of vegetables,
fruit, honey, butter, in tents and sheds,--in short, all the products of a farming region;
there were cakes, loaves of bread, glasses of jelly, and jars of pickles and preserves, made
by farmers' wives; and in the department allotted to needle-work there were quilts of various
patterns and various claims to public notice: one had three thousand five hundred and forty-four
pieces in it, and was made by a great-granddaughter of Daniel Boone, the pioneer; another was
pieced by an old lady of eighty-one without the aid of glasses. Among the live-stock were fat
cattle and prancing three-year-old colts, with red or blue ribbons fastened to their manes,
indicating that they had received the first or second prize, and fat hogs; there were various
breeds of poultry in coops, and before each stall or pen or coop stood a group of spectators,
admiring, commenting, or asking questions of the owner; there were agricultural machines and
implements, and patent pumps for stock-yards, and improved cross-cut saws, each strongly recommended
to the public by a glib-tongued agent. Then there were stands for the sale of ice-cream, lemonade,
and peanuts and candy; and no rural beau felt that he had done the polite thing unless he took
his girl up to the counter and treated her. When he had strolled all over the ground with her,
and perhaps taken her into one or two side-shows, where there were negro minstrels or the Wild
Australian Children, he went and sat in a buggy with her, and they talked, and waited for the
horse-race, or balloon-ascension, or wire-walking, which was the especial attraction of the
afternoon.

"Why, who's that with Tom Worth?" asked one Buck Creek belle of her escort as they were thus
sitting together. "I didn't know that he was goin' with anybody?"

"I didn't, either," was the response; then, after a little pause, "I'll swan, it's Miss Hill,
the school-ma'am. Who'd 'a' thought they would be here together? I didn't know they were acquainted."

And this remark was echoed by other Buck Creek people as they saw the couple walking together.
But there is a law of affinity by which people are drawn together as lovers or as friends,
which is like some of the hidden forces of nature: we cannot see their operation, we can only
see their results. Some one has made the paradoxical remark that we are acquainted with our
friends before we ever see them; meaning that our tastes for the same pursuits or subjects,
traits of character that harmonize, views that coincide, have been ripening apart, and, when
at last we meet, that is sufficient; it does not require a long acquaintanceship to reveal
one to the other.

Young Farmer Worth was now in the habit of frequently calling to see Elvira Hill, and of taking
her out riding in his buggy, that being an approved form of courtship in this section. They
talked of their favorite books and studies, their ambitions for the future as regarded mental
culture, and their individual plans.

Elvira had applied for the position of assistant in the Hill's Station school, and had been
engaged as first assistant instead of second, which was better than she had hoped. She would
have to hear some advanced classes from the principal's room, and this would require her to
study, which would be a source of improvement.

Young Farmer Worth, whose father had died three years before, had bought the home farm, and
was now working to pay his older brothers and sisters for their shares in it and to comfortably
support his mother in her declining years.

"There are eighty acres in it, well improved, and with good buildings," he said one day, while
unfolding his plans to Elvira, "and I think I can make a good home of it, and a happy one,
where I can feel independent, and no one's servant, as I could not at any other business. Farming
is a profession, and I intend to work with my head as well as my hands, to read and study on
the subject, to take the best agricultural papers, and keep up with the times. My fondness
for ornithology and mineralogy can be indulged in connection with my work on the farm and without
in any wise interfering with it."

In the winter he came occasionally to take her to lectures at Sassafrasville or another neighboring
town, and they always found food for thought in what they heard, and pleasure in discussing
it afterward.

The gossips said, "There's a match;" but it was not until spring that they were engaged. Then
he took her to see his mother, and showed her the old home, the farm, and the improvements
he was making. The old lady received Elvira with mingled dignity and cordiality, but, finding
her interested in all she heard and saw, warmed toward her more and more, and told much of
her own life, unfolding the store of memories on which her thoughts chiefly dwelt nowadays,
talking of her husband, the children she had lost, and bringing forth their pictures, opening
closed rooms, and showing dishes, linen, and other household goods which dated back to her
own girlhood and early married life.

Elvira felt an attachment for Mrs. Worth which deepened when, in the ensuing autumn, her dear
grandmother died after a brief illness, and she experienced the loneliness of bereavement and
homelessness. The little brown house in Hill's Station was sold, and Elvira went to board with
one of the neighbors: she was still teaching in the village school.

When June came round again, with its beauty of earth and sky, it brought her wedding-day. A
very quiet wedding it was; but the home-coming, or the "in-fare," to use a good old-fashioned
word, was the occasion of much joy and merry-making. It seemed as if all the Buck Creek neighborhood
had assembled to welcome the bride. Two of the farmers' wives had been at the Worth homestead
all the preceding day, and many of them brought cakes with them.

In the centre of the table stood a roast pig, with an apple in its mouth, and around it were
a great abundance of the substantial viands and delicacies usually provided on such occasions.
There were also many presents for the bride from her old friends, not costly or fine, but in
keeping with their manner of living. Mrs. Loper brought a sheep-skin for a mat, the wool combed
out smoothly and colored crimson, Maggie a white crocheted tidy as big as a cart-wheel, Mrs.
Sapp a wooden butter-stamp, Mary Sapp a picture-frame made of pasteboard, with beech-nuts glued
together thickly upon it and varnished.

So, amid good wishes and rejoicing, the young married pair entered upon their new life together,
contented, yet energetic, and happy in the fact that their own lives afforded fulness and enjoyment,
and that in their own efforts lay the fulfilment of their ambitions.

    LOUISE COFFIN JONES.

INTO THY HANDS.

    Into thy hands, my Father, I commit
      All, all my spirit's care,
      The sorest burden this dim life can bear,
    The sweetest hope wherewith its paths are lit!
    Into thy hands, that hold so closely knit
      What our blind, aching heart
      Calls joy or grief,--we know them not apart!
    Into the hands whence leap
     The hurling tempest, and the gentle breath
    Kissing the babe to sleep,
     The flaming bolt that smites with instant death
    The giant oak, and the refreshing shower
    Whose balmy drops make glad the tender flower.

    What though, even as lent jewels passing bright,
      That crowned me happy king
      For one sweet revel of one night in spring,
    I must surrender in the morning light,
    That cold and gray breaks on my tearful sight,
      Youth, hope, and joy, and love,
      And--oh, all other gems, all price, above!--
    The deathless certainty
      Of the deep life beyond this pallid sun,
    That golden shore and sea
      Which to my youthful feet seemed wellnigh won,
    So fair, so close, so clear, methought I heard
    The trees' soft whisper and faint song of bird;

    What though this fair dream, too, fled long ago,
      And on my straining eyes
      There break no more visions of mellow skies
    'Neath which dear friends, called dead, move on in low
    Sweet converse through wide, happy fields aglow
      With heavenly flower and star,--
      What though, like some poor pilgrim who from far
    Sees, through a slender rift
      In the dark rocks that hem his toilsome way,
    The clouds an instant lift
      From countries bathed in everlasting day,
    I stand and stretch my yearning arms in vain
    Toward the blest light, too swiftly lost again?

    Into thy hands, my Father, I commit
      This dearest, last hope too,
      Old as the world, and yet forever new,--
    The hope wherewith our dimmest paths are lit,
    With life itself indissolubly knit!
      That too is well, I know,
      In thy eternal keeping. Ah! and so
    Let my poor soul dismiss
      Each fear and doubt, hush every anxious cry,
    Forget all thought save this,
      Some time,--oh, dream of joy that cannot die!--
    In those beloved hands, a priceless store,
    All our lost jewels shall be found once more!

    STUART STERNE.

A CHAPTER OF MYSTERY.

Science, as a rule, has avoided the subject of Spiritualism. Its results are too much unlike
the hard, visible, tangible facts of scientific research to attract those accustomed to positive
investigations. And its methods and conditions are usually of a character to set a scientist
beside himself with impatience. Crucial tests do not seem acceptable to spirits in general.
They decline to be placed on the microscopic slide or to show their ghostly forms in the glare
of the electric light, and prefer to haunt the society of those who do not pester them with
too exacting conditions. Thus they have been mainly given over to a class of somewhat credulous
and, in some instances, not well-balanced mortals, whose statements have very little weight
with the general public, and whose strong powers of digesting the marvellous have originated
a plentiful crop of fraud and trickery sufficient to throw discredit on the whole business.

It cannot be said, however, that all the adherents of Spiritualism are of this character, or
that science has completely failed to investigate it. It has won over many persons of good
sense and sound logic, including several prominent scientists, to a belief in the truth of
its claims. Were its adherents all cranks or credulous believers, and its phenomena only such
common sleight-of-hand performances as suffice to convince the open-mouthed swallowers of conjurers'
tricks, it would be idle to give it any attention. But phenomena sufficiently striking to convert
such men as Hare, Crooks, Wallace, Zöllner, and the like are certainly worthy of some attention,
and cannot be at once dismissed as results of skilful prestidigitation.

In fact, it is evident to those who have taken the trouble to investigate the question seriously,
and who do not dismiss it with an a priori decision, that in addition to the fraudulent mediums
who make it their business to trick the public, and are ready to produce a new marvel for every
new dollar, and to call "spirits from the vasty deep" of the unseen universe in form and shape
to suit every customer, there are some private and strictly honest mediums, and many phenomena
which no theory of conjuring will explain. To what they are due is another question, in regard
to which no hypothesis is here offered. It may be said here, however, that the work of the
Psychic Research Society has demonstrated rather conclusively that certain hitherto unknown
and unsuspected powers and laws of nature do exist, and that man's five senses are not the
only means by which he gains a knowledge of what is going on in other minds than his own. The
facts of thought-transference, of mesmeric control, of apparitions of the living, and the like,
as critically tested by the members of this society, seem to indicate clearly that mind can
affect, influence, and control mind through some other channel than that of the senses, usually
over short distances, but in case of strong mental concentration over long distances. That
some psychic medium, some ethereal atmosphere, infiltrates our grosser atmosphere, and is capable
of conveying waves of thought as the luminiferous ether conveys waves of light, is the theory
advanced in explanation of these phenomena. Spiritualists had long before advanced a like theory
in explanation of their phenomena, claiming that disembodied as well as living minds have the
power of influencing and controlling other minds, through the agency of such a psychic atmosphere,
and also of acting upon and moving physical substances through a like agency. As to the probability
of all this, no opinion is here offered.

It is our purpose simply to select some of the more striking instances of spiritualistic phenomena,
as recorded by scientific observers. Those placed on record by the numerous unscientific and
unknown investigators are not the kind of material to present to the general public. Statements
of an unusual character need to be thoroughly substantiated before they can be accepted, and
the remarkable phenomena adduced as spiritual demand evidence of the most unquestionable character.
There is always the feeling that the observer may have been deceived by some shrewd trickery,
or have credulously accepted what others would have readily seen through, or that the senses
may have been under some form of mesmeric control. Instances of such phenomena, therefore,
need to be attested by the names of persons of well-known honesty, judgment, and discrimination,
and attended with an exact statement of the tests applied, before they can be accepted as thoroughly
trustworthy accounts. Some instances of this character may be here given.

The phenomena known under the general name of spirit-manifestations vary greatly in different
instances. In some cases they take the form of strange dreams, in which some warning or information
concerning coming events is given that afterward proves true. In others they occur as seeming
apparitions of persons recently or long dead. In others, as in the case of haunted houses,
there are noises of great variety, moving of objects, opening and shutting of doors, appearances
of unknown forms, and all the phenomena which might be produced by an invisible inhabitant
of the house who was able to become visible under certain circumstances. More ordinary manifestations
are rapping sounds and lifting of heavy bodies, writing either with or without apparent human
agency, and mental communication of facts unknown to or forgotten by the persons present. Other
phases are those presented by professional mediums,--the tying and untying of ropes, playing
on musical instruments, the production of luminous phenomena, slate-writing under tables, and
the like. Performances of this character are usually done in the dark, and the fraud which
may be present is therefore not easily detected. It is impossible to apply tests under such
circumstances, and nothing can be accepted as positive that cannot be tested. Performances
similarly surprising are constantly offered by professional conjurers, and nothing claiming
the high origin of spiritual phenomena can be received in evidence where trickery is possible
or has not been rendered impossible by the employment of adequate tests.

To the same class belong the cabinet performances and the so-called materialization of spirit
forms, which have been the favorite cards of professional mediums of late years. So far as
yet offered in public, they may be dismissed in the mass as pure trickery. The fact that stage-performers
of sleight-of-hand tricks can repeat the cabinet phenomena in every detail, and that the materialized
spirit showmen have been caught in numerous instances in the very act of fraud, throws utter
discredit on the business. No repetition by new mediums of other forms of the exposed tricks
carries any weight. In fact, in a matter of such importance nothing can be accepted as settled
until it has been subjected to the strictest scientific tests and every possible opportunity
for deceit or trickery eliminated. We are not ready to believe that the spirits of our departed
friends are able and willing to talk with or show themselves to us, or create disturbances
in the arrangement of our furniture, unless we are absolutely positive that our eyes, ears,
and nerves are not being cleverly fooled by some skilled and unscrupulous show-man, or that
we are not self-deceived by some temporary vagary of our brains or senses.

In addition to the purely physical phenomena are others of a more or less mental character.
One interesting phase of the latter is that of planchette-writing, which attracted so much
attention a few years ago. The planchette, a heart-shaped board moving easily on casters, and
with a pencil supporting it at one extremity, moves with great readiness when touched by mediumistic
fingers, and is responsible for acres of communications purporting to come from the world of
spirits, and conveying the greatest variety of information, alike as to the thoughts and deeds
of particular spirits and the general conditions of disembodied spiritual existence. In other
instances the planchette is dispensed with, and the writing done by a pencil held in the hand
of the medium, or occasionally, as some persons positively declare, by a pencil that is held
in no mortal hand. In still other cases the medium, either awake or entranced, gives the communication
by word of mouth. And this is asserted to be the case not only in respect to brief messages,
but in long addresses, which are given every Sunday in our principal cities before large audiences,
and in the writing of books of considerable length, but not, as a rule, of any great profundity
or literary value. To all these claims, however, we can simply record the verdict "not proven."
When a man writes or says anything we want more than his mere assertion to prove that it does
not come from his own mind. And, even if we are satisfied that he is not consciously deceiving,
the possibility remains that he is affected by some unconscious mental action. We shall certainly
not accept his declaration that spirits of the dead are talking through him unless he gives
information that could not possibly have been in his own mind, and could not have been received
by thought-transference from the mind of any other person present or in rapport with him at
a distance. The discoveries in thought-transference open possibilities of mental influence
between living persons which aid to explain many hitherto incomprehensible phenomena.

Clairvoyant and clairaudiant mediums fall into the same category. They profess to see forms
which no one else can see, and to hear voices which no one else can hear, and describe these
forms, or repeat the words of these voices, often with the effect of recalling the appearance
or character of deceased persons whom they could not possibly have known. Yet the fact remains
that the persons who recognize these descriptions as accurate must have known the parties described,
and it becomes possible that the mental impression of the medium may have been received by
thought-transference from them. We do not assert that it has been so received. We assert nothing.
In fact, phenomena are claimed to occur which it is difficult or impossible to explain on any
such theory, or on any other theory yet promulgated. Among these is the conveyance of matter
through matter, as of an object from the interior to the exterior of a corked and sealed bottle,
of other objects from a distance into locked rooms, of writing by a sliver of pencil in the
interior of a double slate firmly screwed together, of the placing of close-fitting steel rings
in one solid piece around human necks, and their subsequent removal, of writing and speaking
in languages unknown to some or all of the persons present, and a considerable variety of similar
performances, declared to have occurred under strict test-conditions. Yet if we cannot explain
we retain the right to doubt, and such statements cannot be received as facts except on the
strongest substantiation.

The phenomena whose main forms we have here given, but whose actual variety we cannot attempt
to give, are offered on the testimony of a great variety of persons, many of whom are plainly
too credulous for their evidence to be of any value whatever, while others, who seem to have
exercised great caution and cool judgment, are unknown to the general public, and therefore
not likely to be accepted as witnesses in such a critical case. Others, again, who are well
known and highly respected, have invalidated their testimony by clearly letting themselves
be deceived. Such was the case with Robert Dale Owen, one of the main historians of spiritual
phenomena, who permitted himself to be pitifully humbugged in Philadelphia by the somewhat
famous spirit of Katie King, whose spirit face was afterward discovered on the sturdy shoulders
of a very decidedly incarnate young lady. This was one of the first instances of that throng
of materialized frauds with which this country has ever since been well supplied.

But there have been numerous investigators of spiritualism who cannot be placed in any such
category, many of them men of high standing in the scientific world, whose word is still taken
as positive evidence in support of very surprising scientific statements, since they are known
to examine and test phenomena with the closest and most accurate scrutiny. This class of observers
is particularly abundant in the London scientific world, and includes in its list such noted
names as Alfred Russel Wallace, the celebrated naturalist, Dr. William Crooks, whose discoveries
in chemistry and physics have been of a remarkable character, and Dr. Huggins, the equally
celebrated astronomer. In America the most noted scientific observer was the late Dr. Hare,
of Philadelphia, a chemist of world-wide fame. Of those who, if not professed scientists, have
been otherwise of high standing, Professor Wallace names, in a recent communication to the
"Times," Dr. Robert Chambers, Dr. Elliotson, and Professor William Gregory, of Edinburgh, Dr.
Gully, a scientific physician of Malvern, and Judge Edmonds, one of the best known American
lawyers. Names of similar reputation in the scientific and professional world might be adduced
from Germany and France, prominent among them the late Professor Zöllner, of Leipsic, a well-known
astronomer; but the above-given will suffice as evidence that the investigation of spiritualism
has not been confined to the unknown, unlearned, and credulous, but has been pursued by men
of the very highest standing for probity, learning, sound judgment, and critical discrimination.

The results reached by these men are therefore of great weight, and go far to fix the status
of the phenomena examined. We may say here that several of them have become acknowledged converts
to the spiritual theory. More generally, however, they have declined to express positive opinions
as to the cause of these phenomena, while positively testifying that they are not the result
of trickery, but that they indicate the existence of some power or energy in nature which is
able to suspend or overcome the operation of nature's ordinary forces. Only two prominent scientists,
who have made any pretence to examine these phenomena, have declared that they are in toto
the result of fraud. These two are Professor Faraday and Dr. Carpenter. But the investigations
made by these noted personages were too trivial to render their decision of any value. Faraday
briefly examined the phenomena of table-tipping, and decided that it was due to involuntary
muscular movement. Dr. Carpenter reasserted the same, years after this explanation had been
shown to be entirely inadequate, and declared that the mental phenomena were due only to unconscious
cerebration, or the action of memories and ideas long since stored in the mind, when the consciousness
is otherwise engaged and the person is unaware of the activity of his mental stores. This theory,
we may also say, is utterly inadequate to explain all the phenomena, and only applies by a
strained interpretation to the instances which Dr. Carpenter gives in illustration.

One of the most striking of these instances we may here append. A student relates that a professor
had said to his class in mathematics, of which this student was a member, "'A question of great
difficulty has been referred to me by a banker, a very complicated question of accounts, which
they themselves have not been able to bring to a satisfactory issue, and they have asked my
assistance. I have been trying, and I cannot resolve it. I have covered whole sheets of paper
with calculations and have not been able to make it out. Will you try?' He gave it as a sort
of problem to his class, and said he would be extremely obliged to any one who would bring
him the solution on a certain day. This gentleman tried it over and over again. He covered
many slates with figures, but could not succeed in resolving it. He was a little put on his
mettle, and very much desired to attain the solution. But he went to bed on the night before
the solution, if attained, was to be given in, without having succeeded. In the morning, when
he went to his desk, he found the whole problem worked out in his own hand. He was perfectly
sure that it was his own hand. And this was a curious part of it, that the result was attained
by a process very much shorter than any he had tried. He had covered three or four sheets of
paper in his attempts, and this was all worked out on one page, and correctly worked, as the
result proved. He inquired of the woman who attended to his room, and she said that she was
certain no one had entered it during the night. It was perfectly clear that this had been worked
out by himself."

Instances of this kind are certainly very curious, and seem to show that the mind, when set
in any train of thought by intense concentration, may pursue it after consciousness has been
withdrawn. And the result indicates that the mind acts with innate logic when not disturbed
by distracting considerations, and can be trusted to do more correct work when thus set going
and left to run of itself than when consciously held to its work. Yet an examination of every
recorded instance of this kind strongly indicates that no such unconscious mental action ever
takes place except when the consciousness has been earnestly directed to the subject in advance,
that no marked instances of this activity ever occur except in the unconsciousness of sleep
or trance, and that it ceases when the mental excitement that started it has gradually subsided.
There is not an instance on record to show that the mind ever originates unconscious action,
or that any of its remote stores or powers ever spring into activity without being aroused
by sensation or conscious thought. Thus the doctrine of unconscious cerebration has been carried
much further than the facts warrant. It need hardly be said that it is utterly inapplicable
as a theory to many of the facts adduced by the Society for Psychic Research.

In the year 1869 the London Dialectical Society, an association of cultured liberals, embracing
many well-known personages, appointed a committee to examine "the asserted phenomena of Spiritualism."
The committee divided itself into six sub-committees, each of which submitted a report, and
according to a general report, published in 1871, "these reports substantially corroborated
each other."

"Of the members of your sub-committee about four-fifths entered upon the investigation wholly
sceptical as to the reality of the alleged phenomena, firmly believing them to be the result
either of imposture, or of delusion, or of involuntary muscular action. It was only by irresistible
evidence, under conditions that precluded the possibility of either of these solutions, and
after trials and tests many times repeated, that the most sceptical of your sub-committee were
slowly and reluctantly convinced that the phenomena exhibited in the course of their protracted
inquiry were veritable facts.

Of the many experiments described in this report we will quote here but one:

"On one occasion, when eleven members of your sub-committee had been sitting around one of
the dining-tables above described for forty minutes, and various sounds and motions had occurred,
they, by way of test, turned the backs of their chairs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. They all then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the backs thereof. In this
position their feet were of course turned away from the table, and by no possibility could
be placed under it or touch the floor. The hands of each person were extended over the table,
at about four inches from the surface. Contact, therefore, with any part of the table could
not take place without detection. In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times,--at
first about four inches to one side, then about twelve to the other side, and then, in like
manner, four and six inches respectively."

The committee further remarks that after this experiment "the table was carefully examined,
turned upside down, and taken to pieces, but nothing was discovered to account for the phenomenon.
Delusion was out of the question. The movements were in various directions, and were witnessed
simultaneously by all present. They were matters of measurement, and not of opinion or fancy.
Your sub-committee have not collectively obtained any evidence as to the nature and source
of this force, but simply as to the fact of its existence."

Mr. Sergeant Cox, a member of this sub-committee and a prominent member of the English bar,
relates that he experimented elsewhere in the same manner as that above described, and with
similar results, a heavy dining-table being employed. Afterward, when all the party stood in
a circle round the table, holding hands, at first two and then three feet distant, the table
lurched four times, once more than two feet and with great force, and moved to such an extent
as to become completely turned round. After the party had broken up, and were standing in groups
about the room, the table, which was about two feet from its original position, swung violently
back to its proper place and set itself exactly square with the room, with such force as literally
to knock down a lady who was standing in the way putting on her shawl for departure.

Mr. Cox, after a close examination of these phenomena, offered a theory in explanation somewhat
differing from that already mentioned. He believes that they are due to the action of some
psychic force, originating in the nervous system and analogous in character to magnetic attraction.
He relates several instances of heavy bodies moving toward the mediums, as if attracted, and
remarks, "In another experiment in my own lighted drawing-room, as the psychic [the medium]
was entering the room with myself, no other person being there, an easy-chair of great weight
that was standing fourteen feet from us was suddenly lifted from the floor and drawn to him
with great rapidity, precisely as a heavy magnet will attract a mass of iron."

Another phase of these phenomena, as observed by the committee, was the sudden and considerable
change of weight in the table, it becoming light or heavy as desired. To prove this scientifically,
a weighing-machine was attached, and the change of weight clearly proved. "One instance will
suffice. Weighed by the machine, the normal weight of a table raised from the floor eighteen
inches on one side was eight pounds. Desired to be light, the index fell to five pounds; desired
to be heavy, it advanced to eighty-two pounds. And these changes were instantaneous and repeated
many times."

The most remarkable evidence adduced by scientific observers is that presented by Professor
Crooks. He is a chemist of high reputation, the editor of the "Chemical News" and for many
years of the "Quarterly Journal of Science," the discoverer of the metallic element thallium,
and of recent years noted for his remarkable discoveries in the conditions of matter in highly-exhausted
vacuum-tubes. In 1870 he undertook the investigation of Spiritualism, with the full expectation
of exposing it as a compound of trickery on the one side and of credulity and self-deception
on the other. In January, 1874, he published, in the "Quarterly Journal of Science," a brief
compend of the notes of his investigations during the four years preceding. Some of the phenomena
here recorded are so extraordinary that they would not be worthy an instant's attention but
for the attestation of a witness of such standing, and one accustomed to the employment of
the severest scientific tests.

The phenomena recorded, as he declares, with few exceptions, all took place in his own house
and in full light, at times appointed by himself, "and under conditions that absolutely precluded
the employment of the very simplest instrumental aid." In all cases only private friends were
present besides the medium. The mediums employed were the noted D. D. Home and Miss Kate Fox,
of Rochester-rappings notoriety. Of the simpler phenomena observed were the movement of heavy
bodies with contact, but without mechanism or exertion, percussive and other sounds, etc. He
remarks,--

"I have had these sounds proceeding from the floor, walls, etc., when the medium's hands and
feet were held, when she was standing on a chair, when she was suspended in a swing from the
ceiling, when she was enclosed in a wire cage, and when she had fallen fainting on a sofa.
I have had them on a glass harmonicon. I have felt them on my own shoulder and under my own
hands. I have heard them on a sheet of paper held between the fingers by a piece of thread
passed through one corner. I have tested them in every way that I could devise; and there has
been no escape from the conviction that they were true objective occurrences, not produced
by trickery or mechanical means." Intelligence is manifested by these sounds, "sometimes of
such a character as to lead to the belief that it does not emanate from any person present."

He records numerous instances of the movement of heavy bodies when not touched: "My own chair
has been twisted partly round while my feet were off the floor. A chair was seen by all present
to move slowly up to the table from a far corner when all were watching it; on another occasion
an arm-chair moved to where we were sitting, and then moved slowly back again (a distance of
about three feet) at my request."

"On five separate occasions a heavy dining-table rose between a few inches and one and a half
feet off the floor, under special circumstances which rendered trickery impossible.... On another
occasion the table rose from the floor, not only when no person was touching it, but under
conditions which I had prearranged so as to assure unquestionable proof of the fact."

As to the power of overcoming gravity, he tested it by the use of a weighing-machine specially
constructed and very delicate in its operation, being so arranged that its extremity could
not possibly move downward without external pressure. Yet it did so move downward when the
medium's fingers were held over it without touching it. This experiment was conducted in a
way that renders it absolutely certain that some force beyond those visible to the persons
present was in operation.

He also describes the lifting of human bodies without visible external aid: "On one occasion
I witnessed a chair, with a lady sitting on it, rise several inches from the ground.... At
another time two children, on separate occasions, rose from the floor with their chairs, in
full daylight, under (to me) most satisfactory conditions; for I was kneeling and keeping close
watch upon the feet of the chair, and observing that no one might touch them."

Among other strange manifestations, he positively declares that his library-bell was brought
into a room in which he was sitting with the medium, with locked doors, both he and his children
having seen and handled the bell a short time before in the library. Also a piece of China
grass was taken from a vase on the table, and before his eyes seemed to pass through the substance
of the table. Observation showed that there was a crack in the table through which it had apparently
passed. But this crack was much narrower than the diameter of the grass, yet the latter showed
no signs of abrasion or change of shape.

As to the intelligence manifested by this strange power he gives the following instance. A
lady was writing with a planchette. "I asked, 'Can you see the contents of this room?' 'Yes,'
wrote the planchette. 'Can you see to read this newspaper?' said I, putting my finger on a
copy of the 'Times' which was on the table behind me, but without looking at it. 'Yes,' was
the reply of the planchette. 'Well,' I said, 'if you can see that, write the word that is now
covered by my finger, and I will believe you.' The planchette commenced to move. Slowly and
with great difficulty the word 'however' was written out. I turned round, and saw that the
word 'however' was covered by the tip of my finger. I had purposely avoided looking at the
newspaper when I tried this experiment, and it was impossible for the lady, had she tried,
to have seen any of the printed words, for she was sitting at one table, and the paper was
on another table behind, my body intervening."

The most remarkable phenomena attested by Professor Crooks, however, are those classed as luminous
appearances, and particularly as luminous hands. Some of the most striking of those may be
here quoted:

"Under the strictest test-conditions I have seen a self-luminous body, the size and nearly
the shape of a turkey's egg, float noiselessly about the room, at one time higher than any
one present could reach standing on tiptoe, and then gently descend to the floor. It was visible
more than ten minutes, and before it faded away struck the table three times with a sound like
that of a hard, solid body. During this time the medium was lying back, apparently insensible,
in an easy-chair."

"I have had an alphabetic communication given by luminous flashes occurring before me in the
air while my hand was moving about among them. I was sitting next to the medium, Miss Fox,
the only other persons present being my wife and a lady relative, and I was holding the medium's
two hands in one of mine, while her feet were resting on my feet. Paper was on the table before
us, and my disengaged hand was holding a pencil. A luminous hand came down from the upper part
of the room, and, after hovering near me for a few seconds, took the pencil from my hand, rapidly
wrote on a sheet of paper, threw the pencil down, and then rose up above our heads, gradually
fading into darkness."

These hands he claims to have frequently seen, sometimes in darkness, sometimes in light.

The hand often seemed to form from a luminous cloud. "It is not always a mere form, but sometimes
appears perfectly life-like and graceful, the fingers moving, the flesh appearing as human
as that of any in the room. At the wrist or arm it becomes hazy and fades off into a luminous
cloud.... I have retained one of these hands in my own, firmly resolved not to let it escape.
There was no struggle or effort made to get loose, but it gradually seemed to resolve itself
into vapor, and faded in that manner from my grasp."

We should not venture to quote these most remarkable statements but for the fact that they
are made by a gentleman of such high standing for accuracy of observation, who knew perfectly
well that he was imperilling his position in the scientific world and exposing himself to the
contumely and accusation of loss of sanity that followed. In regard to this point it need only
be said that his most valuable scientific work has been done since that period, and that his
statements on scientific subjects are received everywhere to-day as unquestionably accurate
and important. That he saw what he believed to be luminous hands there can be no doubt. Whether
he was deceived is another question.

As to the producing cause of these manifestations Professor Crooks offers no theory. Whether
the power and the intelligence displayed came from some one present or from some disembodied
spirit he makes no suggestion, but simply presents the facts as evidence that there are mysteries
in nature transcending any that have yet been weighed and measured, and which must engage the
attention of the science of the future.

Of the other scientists named, Professor Wallace openly accepts the spiritualistic explanation
of these phenomena. He has not, so far as we are aware, published any detailed statement of
his investigations, though we have been told that they consisted in part in what is known as
"spirit photography," or the taking of photographs of persons known to be dead, by his own
private apparatus and in his own private rooms. As to the character of the results obtained
by him, however, we are unable to make any statement.

Professor Zöllner also became a believer in Spiritualism, mainly through experiments with the
American medium Mr. Slade. He published a work on the subject, in which he advances the theory,
which has of late attracted so much attention, of a fourth dimension in space; that is, that,
in addition to length, breadth, and thickness, bodies may have a fourth dimension, beyond the
powers of human observation. The untying of knots in sealed ropes, passage of matter through
matter, etc., he attempts to explain as possibly done by agents capable of working in this
fourth dimension of matter. Science, however, is as little inclined to accept this theory as
to accept that of spirit communication.

Of the American scientific observers Professor Hare is far the most noted for his critical
discernment, his accuracy of observation, and his obstinate determination not to be convinced
that there was anything occult in these phenomena. He was remarkably skilful in the making
of scientific apparatus, and he tested the phenomena received by a series of instruments of
delicate construction and capable of exposing the least attempt at fraud. Those who were present
at the circles with him declare that he would frequently make his appearance with a new instrument
and a face full of grim expectancy that he would now baffle the powers that had baffled him
on previous occasions, and that he would retire with a countenance of settled despondency as
the unseen something set at nought his deep-laid plans and secret hopes. It will suffice to
say here that his experiments ended in his accepting the spiritual explanation of the phenomena
and publishing a work on the subject.

The same was the case with Judge Edmonds, from whose published work we may make a few quotations,
as his high standing as a jurist and reputation for veracity and legal shrewdness make him
a witness whose word would be accepted without question on any ordinary subject. He gives the
following strange experience: "During the last illness of my revered old friend Isaac T. Hopper
I was a good deal with him, and on the day when he died I was with him from noon till about
seven o'clock in the evening. I then supposed he would live yet for several days, and at that
hour I left to attend my circle, proposing to call again on my way home. About ten o'clock
in the evening, while attending the circle, I asked if I might put a mental question. I did
so, and I know that no person present could know what it was, or to what subject even it referred.
My question related to Mr. Hopper, and I received for answer through the rappings, as from
himself, that he was dead. I hastened immediately to his house, and found that it was so. That
could not have been from any one present, for they did not know of his death, nor did they
understand the answer I received. It could not have been the reflex of my own mind, for I had
left him alive, and thought that he would live several days."

Of his statements in regard to physical phenomena the following may be quoted: "I have known
a pine table with four legs lifted bodily up from the floor in the centre of a circle of six
or eight persons, turned upside down, and laid upon its top at our feet, then lifted up over
our heads and put leaning against the back of the sofa on which we sat. I have seen a mahogany
table, having only a centre leg, and with a lamp burning upon it, lifted from the floor at
least a foot, in spite of the efforts of those present, and shaken backward and forward as
one would shake a goblet in his hand, and the lamp retain its place, though its glass pendants
rung again. I have seen the same table tipped up with the lamp upon it, so that the lamp must
have fallen off unless retained there by something else than its own gravity; yet it fell not,
moved not. I have known a mahogany chair thrown on its side and moved swiftly back and forth
on the floor, no one touching it, through a room where there were at least a dozen persons
sitting; and it was repeatedly stopped within a few inches of me, when it was coming with a
violence which, if not arrested, must have broken my legs."

Of the phenomena classed under the head of spiritualistic three explanations have been offered.
One is that they are purely the result of fraud in the mediums and self-delusion in the believers.
A second is that they are due to some unknown law and force of nature, the physical manifestations
being ascribed to a psychic energy of nervous origin, the mental to unconscious cerebration.
A third explanation is that they are due to the action of disembodied spirits, who are able
to return to the earth and make their presence manifest in all the methods above recounted.
Of these explanations the first is that given by the general public, and particularly by those
who know nothing practically about the subject, but have reached their opinions by their own
inner consciousness and without troubling themselves to investigate the facts. That it does
apply, however, to much of what is known as spiritual manifestations there can be no doubt.
Of frauds under the name of mediums there has been an abundance. Of dupes under the name of
Spiritualists there has been an equal abundance. And the tricks of false mediums have been
so often detected as to throw a shadow of doubt over everything connected with the asserted
phenomena. Yet that it is not all fraud has been abundantly proved by the testimony of the
men above named and many others of equal powers of discrimination, and by the occurrence of
numerous phenomena under circumstances that absolutely precluded deception, either in medium
or audience. To these cases one or other of the second and third explanations must be given.
Acceptance of the third, that they are really the work of spirits, would of course settle the
whole business and explain all the phenomena in a word. But the great body of critical observers
are disinclined to accept this theory, for the reason that many of the scientific class doubt
the existence of any spirit beyond the earth-life, that many of the religious class question
the possibility of freed spirits returning to earth, and that many of an intermediate class
consider the manifestations too puerile and the mental communications given too unsatisfactory
and too far below the mental calibre of the professed speakers to be worthy of assignment to
any such source. These communications seem usually painted by the mind of the medium, and are
often notably feeble, absurd, and valueless.

To the members of this class the second explanation is the only tenable one,--namely, that
there are certain extraordinary powers resident in the nervous organism which are capable of
acting in opposition to the ordinary energies of nature; that an intangible material exists
outside the body and penetrates physical objects, through whose aid the nerve-power somehow
operates to produce sounds and motions of bodies; that this nerve-power may act unconsciously
to the person who possesses it in even a highly-developed state; that its action may be controlled
by the mind, acting either consciously or unconsciously; that old and long-forgotten stores
of the memory may take part in this action; and that other minds may act through the medium's
mind and set in action his psychic powers unconsciously to himself.

That there is such a supersensible substance, and that the human mind has such hitherto unknown
powers, is not easy to admit. And yet when we consider all the facts bearing upon the case
it becomes equally hard to deny. The history of mankind is full of stories of occult operations
and so-called supernatural performances. Those recorded are, of course, but the merest fraction
of those that have been observed. At the present day this world of mystery seems everywhere
around us. Outside of what is put on record, almost every person one meets can relate some
such mysterious occurrence which has happened to himself or some of his acquaintances. That
a very great proportion of this has been self-deception must be admitted. But all mankind is
not blind and gullible; and if we strain these stories of the marvellous through the sieve
of criticism, some considerable residuum will remain, which must be accounted for by another
theory than that of delusion.

The theory above given accounts in some degree for most of the facts, though there are others
which it is not easy to make fit in. Such are the instances in which information unknown to
any person present has been given. We may instance the writing of the word covered by Professor
Crooks's finger, and the answer to Judge Edmonds's mental question concerning his dying friend.
Other striking instances of the same character might be given, some of which have happened
within the knowledge of the writer. We may give in illustration the case of one gentleman,
a prominent businessman of Philadelphia, who received from a medium a statement of the date
of the death of a child that had occurred many years before. The gentleman denied the correctness
of the date, and gave what he believed to be the correct one. But the medium insisted on the
date given. On going home and consulting his family record, to his surprise the gentleman found
that the medium was right and he wrong,--that the child had died on the date stated, not on
that which had been impressed upon his memory.

Taking the case of mentality as a whole, it is certain that we are yet far from being acquainted
with all the powers and mysteries of the human mental and nervous organism, despite all the
researches of late years. Nor do we know all the conditions and capabilities of the world of
matter which surrounds us, or the possibilities of intercommunication of minds without the
aid of the senses. On the other hand, Spiritualists assert that we are equally far from knowing
all the possibilities of spirit existence or of communication between embodied and disembodied
mind. As to all this, it is perhaps best to remain in a state of suspended decision and await
the results of accurate observation to settle the question definitely on one side or other.
The investigation now being carried on by a committee appointed by the University of Pennsylvania,
under the conditions of a bequest from the late Mr. Seybert, will, it may be hoped, tend to
clear up the mystery.

    CHARLES MORRIS.

THE STORY OF AN ITALIAN WORKWOMAN'S LIFE.[B]

Si, signora, there are four of us,--Fausta, and Flavia, and Marc Antonio, and I. La Mamma was
left a widow when Marc Antonio was twelve years old and Fausta ten, Flavia was eight, little
Teresina (who died in childhood) six, and I was only sixteen months old. All the rest can remember
Babbo [daddy], and many's the time, when I was a little one, I have cried my eyes out with
anger and jealousy because I couldn't remember him too. Babbo was a good man, signora. Never
an angry word, La Mamma says,--not one,--in all the fifteen years they were married, and allegro,
allegro (cheerful). He was a carrier, and he had only a little time at home; but then he always
played with the little ones and made them happy. La Mamma loved him with all her heart; and
often she says, "Ah, if I ever come to Paradise, I pray our Lord to make me find my Pietro
again." Si, signora, I know our Lord said there was no marrying or giving in marriage in heaven;
La Mamma knows it too; but we shall know each other, you know, up there, and our Blessed Lord
is merciful, and won't part those who love each other. La Mamma says so; and I hope so, too.
If ever I gain the rest of Paradise,--may our Blessed Lord and the Madonna and all the saints
grant it!--I want to find my Luigi there too. Well, but I promised to tell the signora how
the Mamma brought us all up on only a franc a day. As I said already, Babbo was a carrier.
He did well, and sent Marc Antonio and Fausta and Flavia to school, and me to a balia in the
country, and put something by besides. La Mamma was a silk-weaver,--one of the best in Florence
then,--and she put by something too; for she worked hard every day. Everything went well with
them until the day that I came home from the baliatico (period of nursing in the country).
I was well weaned, and a strong, fine baby, and the balia was proud of me; and Babbo was so
pleased to find me so well and lively that he gave the balia two francs more than he had agreed
to do. But Babbo was always generous. Well, the next day La Mamma took me in her arms and went
to the silk-shop where she had been at work, to see about selling her loom; for the master
of the shop was old and was giving up his business and selling everything: it was just at that
time that the silk-trade began to go down in Florence. When the loom was sold, La Mamma put
the money in her purse, and then she went to put it in the bank, and then home. When she got
into the Borgo degli Santi Apostoli she saw several people standing before our door; but she
thought nothing of that, for we lived on the top floor, and there were several other families
in the house. But when La Mamma came up to the door, she saw old Martia, her aunt, and Miniato,
her brother, there. They were both crying.

"Oh, poverina, poverina! here she is," says Miniato.

"Madonna santissima! how shall we ever tell her?" says Aunt Martia.

"For the love of God, tell me what it is!" said poor mamma, and her heart died in her.

Well, in a few minutes, adagio, adagio, little by little, they told her how it was. Near the
Porta San Niccolò a heavy load of bricks had been overturned, and poor Babbo, who was passing
at the time, had been badly hurt. His fine gray mule Giannetta was killed. So two troubles
came together. After a little the Misericordia brought Babbo home, and they put him in bed,
and one of the Brethren stayed to watch him that night. He was badly hurt, and he never took
a step again, though he lived for six months. La Mamma did her best: the weaving was over,--she
could not have found much more weaving to do, even if Babbo had been able to bear the noise
of the loom,--but she knitted, and sewed, and did what she could. Still, the money melted away.
Babbo might have been put into a hospital, but La Mamma couldn't bear to part with him, even
though he said often, as the days went on and he got no better, that he would rather go into
a hospital than lie there and feel that he was eating up the little money he had put away for
his wife and children. "Povera Leonora," he used to say,--"povera Leonora, who must work so
hard while I lie here and play the signore!" And once or twice he cried a little. But for the
most part he was cheerful and bore his pain with patience.

All the time la povera Mamma kept up her courage, and made Babbo believe that the money went
three times as far as it did. But it melted away; and, the day before Babbo died, when she
counted it over she knew that she had a hard struggle before her. She did not let him know
it, however. He thought she had money to last for two or three months. So Easter came round,
and still Babbo lay helpless and full of pain. The priest came to confess and communicate him,
as he does all the bedridden at Easter-time, and that afternoon Babbo had less pain than for
many a day. He kissed and blessed us as usual at bedtime, and then he told La Mamma to call
him in the morning, so that he might light the lamp for her. This was because the table with
the lamp stood by his side of the bed, and often La Mamma, who had to get up early, used to
strike the light without waking him. "But now that I have no pain," says Babbo, "I'll strike
a light for you, cara mia, so that you may have that comfort." Easter fell early that year,
in March, and the weather was cold and stormy. When La Mamma woke up at four o'clock, the bells
were ringing for first mass, but it was cold and dark, and a storm was raging. She could not
bear to wake Babbo up, but she had promised to do so, and she had a long day's work before
her and no time to lose. So she called him, very gently at first, and then louder. There was
no answer, and she touched his shoulder and shook him a little. Still there was no answer,
and, being frightened, she leaned over and touched his face. Povera mamma! it was cold as ice,
and stiff. Then she put her hand on his heart, but it was still. She jumped up quickly, but,
in her fright and grief, she could not find the matches. At last she did so, and then she saw
that he was dead. Little Teresa slept between them, and he had her hand in his, clasped so
tightly that it was many minutes before La Mamma could set it free. She did so without waking
the child, and then she put her into bed with Flavia and Fausta, and woke Marc Antonio and
sent him for the doctor. When he was gone she lighted the fire and did what she could to warm
Babbo and bring the life back, though her heart told her, as did the doctor when he came, that
all was over. By and by the children woke and cried, and La Mamma wondered that she could find
words to quiet them, and yet she did. When everything was over and the house quiet, the poor
soul felt her heart die in her breast, and would have been glad to lie down and die too; but
no, she could not. She had to take out the purse and count the money again, and then she found
that after buying a reserved grave for Babbo at the Campo Santo at Trespiano she would have
just enough to pay the rent for the next six months. You know, signora, that if a reserved
grave is not bought at Trespiano the bodies are put into the fossa comune, and that is the
end. The graves are not marked. La Mamma could not bear the thought of that, and so she bought
a reserved grave. Then came the funeral; and she called the children together and told them
that if they each wanted to carry a taper for Babbo they would have to go without their supper
that night. They were very hungry, every one, for, what with the trouble, and the care, and
the sorrow of that last day, La Mamma had not been able to cook the dinner, and they had had
nothing all day but a piece of bread. Ah, they were hungry! They had cried until they were
tired out, and they were as empty as organ-tubes. Marc Antonio has told me many a time about
it. "God forgive me," says he, "but when La Mamma said that, I felt the hunger grip me like
a tiger, and the devil tempted me, and I said to myself, 'Babbo's gone to the world over there,
and what good will a taper do him? He was never the one to want us to go to bed hungry as well
as with a sore heart.'" But even while he thought the wicked thoughts the love for Babbo came
into his heart again. He burst out crying and sobbing, and cried out, "Mamma, mamma, I don't
want any supper to-night; I don't! I don't!" Poverino! he was growing and strong, and so hungry.
Fausta and Flavia and little Teresa said the same, but it hurt them less, and they did not
cry. And then little Teresa spoke up,--she was always as wise as a little angel:

"Mamma," says she, "the baby must have her supper, mustn't she?"

"Poverina! what would you have?" says La Mamma. "Yes, the poor baby must have her supper, indeed.
She knows nothing, poor little one, of the sorrow in the house, or she would not grudge Babbo
a taper any more than the rest of you."

Little Teresa smiled, "Then, mamma, I've baby's supper for her," says she. "I did not eat my
bread all day, and you can have it now to make a pappa for her."

So La Mamma took me in her arms and went into the kitchen, and then Marc Antonio held me while
she and Fausta and Flavia and Teresa made the pappa; and then each one took it in turn to feed
me. You cannot know, signora, how often I have lain awake and cried to think that I should
have been the only one of us all to eat like a pig that night, while dear Babbo lay dead in
the house and the rest were sad and hungry. Pazienza! we need patience in this world, even
with ourselves sometimes.

When the funeral was over, La Mamma put the house in order, and then she took out all her papers
and accounts and counted over all she had. Just a little of the money that Babbo had saved
was left,--enough, if she never touched it, to bring in seventy-three francs a year,--that
is, twenty centimes [four cents] a day. She made up her mind that she would never touch it,
so that each day, as long as we lived, we might have at least a piece of bread bought with
Babbo's money. Then there was the parish, which gave her some help. The guardians of the poor
widows appointed a guardian for us,--the Conte Bertoli, a good man, God rest his soul,--and
he applied to the poor widows' fund for La Mamma and got her an allowance of fifty centimes
[ten cents] a day until Marc Antonio should be fifteen and able to work; and then the Signor
Conte himself added to that twenty centimes more, so that altogether La Mamma had a franc a
day. But there were six of us. Thankful enough she was to have the franc; but still, as you
may suppose, signora, she had to think a good deal and work hard to keep us. The elder children
had all been put to a school near by, a nice school, but where Babbo had had to pay for them;
now that was changed. Fausta and Flavia and Teresa were sent to the convent of the Doratei
Sisters, and Marc Antonio to the Frate Scalopi. There was nothing to pay at either place, and
the children were taught well and taken good care of. The convent of the Doratei is in the
Via dei Malcontenti, and that of the Frate Scalopi in the Piazza Santa Croce. Marc Antonio
and Fausta and Flavia and Teresa used to set off at seven every morning, winter and summer,
and La Mamma walked with them, carrying me in her arms. She gave all the children a good breakfast
of hot pappa before they set out for school, and some bread and apple, or bread and onions,
in a basket, to eat at dinner-time. At night, when they came home, they had a good supper of
casalingo [household, i.e., black] bread and milk. Then they were washed and put to bed; for
La Mamma was very strict, and never allowed any one out of bed after eight o'clock. As soon
as I was two years old I was sent to the Doratei too; and the big dark convent, with the great
garden behind, is the first thing I ever remember. The good sisters were very kind to us. They
taught all the older girls to read and write, and sew and knit, not only plain sewing, but
fine stitching, and open-work, and fine darning, and button-holes, and lace-work, and so on.
They also taught them to make beds, and sweep, and dust, and cook a little,--that is, how to
make broth, and pappa, and such simple things. From twelve to two every day there was recreation.
At twelve all the children, big and little, sat down to dinner in the refectory with the nuns.
The nuns had their own dinner,--a very plain one always, for their rule is severe,--and the
children had whatever they brought with them. If anything was brought that could be warmed
over and made more nourishing, Sister Cherubina never grudged the trouble. When dinner was
over we sang a grace, and then we all ran into the garden and had a good game of play. Of course
the very little ones did nothing all day but play and sleep. Sister Arcangela took care of
them. Sometimes on fine days the sisters used to take us all out for a walk in the country.
Twice every week we had religious instruction. Padre Giovanni, our confessor, taught us everything,
our Credo and Pater Noster, and our holy religion, and the holy gospel, and all the beautiful
stories in the Bible, and the legends of the saints. Which of our Lord's miracles does the
signora think the finest? For myself, I always liked the story of the night in which our Blessed
Redeemer came to his disciples walking on the water. And then of the older stories I liked
the one of poor Joseph and his brethren. What bad devils the brothers were! But God brought
good out of evil, and rewarded poor Joseph, who was an angel, by making him a great king. Well,
still I am babbling on and telling you about our school, and forgetting La Mamma. I told you
she had a franc a day. Our rent cost a hundred francs a year. That was a little more than twenty-five
centimes a day, and that left La Mamma about seventy centimes a day for food, and clothing,
and lights, and so on. La Mamma worked day and night. Whenever she could, she used to sit up
at night with sick people, for that was paid well,--a franc a night; sometimes in grand houses
as much as two francs,--and then she could rest in the day-time when we were at school. But,
whatever she did, or wherever she went, she always managed to be at the convent gate every
evening at half-past five to bring us home. If by any chance she could not do that, Marc Antonio
always waited for us and brought us home very carefully.