Lady Augustus as she was driven back to Orchard Street and as she remained alone during the
rest of that day and the next in London, became a little afraid of what she had done. She began
to think how she should communicate her tidings to her daughter, and thinking of it grew to
be nervous and ill at ease. How would it be with her should Arabella still cling to the hope
of marrying the lord? That any such hope would be altogether illusory Lady Augustus was now
sure. She had been quite certain that there was no ground for such hope when she had spoken
to the man of her own poverty. She was almost certain that there had never been an offer of
marriage made. In the first place Lord Rufford's word went further with her than Arabella's,--and
then his story had been consistent and probable, whereas hers had been inconsistent and improbable.
At any rate ropes and horses would not bring Lord Rufford to the hymeneal altar. That being
so was it not natural that she should then have considered what result would be next best to
a marriage? She was very poor, having saved only some few hundreds a year from the wreck of
her own fortune. Independently of her daughter had nothing. And in spite of this poverty Arabella
was very extravagant, running up bills for finery without remorse wherever credit could be
found, and excusing herself by saying that on this or that occasion such expenditure was justified
by the matrimonial prospects which it opened out to her. And now, of late, Arabella had been
talking of living separately from her mother. Lady Augustus, who was thoroughly tired of her
daughter's company, was not at all averse to such a scheme; but any such scheme was impracticable
without money. By a happy accident the money would now be forthcoming. There would be 400 pounds
a year for ever and nobody would know whence it came. She was confident that they might trust
to the lord's honour for secrecy. As far as her own opinion went the result of the transaction
would be most happy. But still she feared Arabella. She felt that she would not know how to
tell her story when she got back to Marygold Place. "My dear, he won't marry you; but he is
to give you 8,000 pounds." That was what she would have to say, but she doubted her own courage
to put her story into words so curt and explanatory. Even at thirty 400 pounds a year has not
the charms which accompany it to eyes which have seen sixty years. She remained in town that
night and the next day, and went down by train to Basingstoke on the following morning with
her heart not altogether free from trepidation.

Lord Rufford, the very moment that the interview was over, started off to his lawyer. Considering
how very little had been given to him the sum he was to pay was prodigious. In his desire to
get rid of the bore of these appeals, he had allowed himself to be foolishly generous. He certainly
never would kiss a young lady in a carriage again,--nor even lend a horse to a young lady till
he was better acquainted with her ambition and character. But the word had gone from him and
he must be as good as his word. The girl must have her 8,000 pounds and must have it instantly.
He would put the matter into such a position that if any more interviews were suggested, he
might with perfect safety refer the suggester back to Miss Trefoil. There was to be secrecy,
and he would be secret as the grave. But in such matters one's lawyer is the grave. He had
proposed that two lawyers should arrange it. Objection had been made to this, because Lady
Augustus had no lawyer ready;--but on his side some one must be employed. So he went to his
own solicitor and begged that the thing might be done quite at once. He was very definite in
his instructions, and would listen to no doubts. Would the lawyer write to Miss Trefoil on
that very day;---or rather not on that very day but the next. As he suggested this he thought
it well that Lady Augustus should have an opportunity of explaining the transaction to her
daughter before the lawyer's letter should be received. He had, he said, his own reason for
such haste. Consequently the lawyer did prepare the letter to Miss Trefoil at once, drafting
it in his noble client's presence. In what way should the money be disposed so as best to suit
her convenience? The letter was very short with an intimation that Lady Augustus would no doubt
have explained the details of the arrangement.

When Lady Augustus reached Marygold the family were at lunch, and as strangers were present
nothing was said as to the great mission. The mother had already bethought herself how she
must tell this and that lie to the Connop Greens, explaining that Lord Rufford had confessed
his iniquity but had disclosed that, for certain mysterious reasons, he could not marry Arabella,--though
he loved her better than all the world. Arabella asked some questions about her mother's shopping
and general business in town, and did not leave the room till she could do so without the slightest
appearance of anxiety. Mrs. Connop Green marvelled at her coolness knowing how much must depend
on the answer which her mother had brought back from London, and knowing nothing of the contents
of the letter which Arabella had received that morning from the lawyer. In a moment or two
Lady Augustus followed her daughter upstairs, and on going into her own room found the damsel
standing in the middle of it with an open paper in her hand. "Mamma," she said, "shut the door."
Then the door was closed. "What is the meaning of this?" and she held out the lawyer's letter.

"The meaning of what?" said Lady Augustus, trembling.

"I have no doubt you know, but you had better read it"

Lady Augustus read the letter and attempted to smile. "He has been very quick," she said. "I
thought I should have been the first to tell you."

"What is the meaning of it? Why is the man to give me all that money?"

"Is it not a good escape from so great a trouble? Think what 8,000 pounds will do. It will
enable you to live in comfort wherever you may please to go."

"I am to understand then you have sold me,--sold all my hopes and my very name and character,
for 8,000 pounds!"

"Your name and character will not be touched, my dear. As for his marrying you I soon found
that that was absolutely out of the question."

"This is what has come of sending you to see him! Of course I shall tell my uncle everything."

"You will do no such thing. Arabella, do not make a fool of yourself. Do you know what 8,000
pounds will do for you? It is to be your own,--absolutely beyond my reach or your father's."

"I would sooner go into the Thames off Waterloo Bridge than touch a farthing of his money,"
said Arabella with a spirit which the other woman did not at all understand. Hitherto in all
these little dirty ways they had run with equal steps. The pretences, the subterfuges, the
lies of the one had always been open to the other. Arabella, earnest in supplying herself with
gloves from the pockets of her male acquaintances, had endured her mother's tricks with complacency.
She had condescended when living in humble lodgings to date her letters from a well-known hotel,
and had not feared to declare that she had done so in their family conversations. Together
they had fished in turbid waters for marital nibbles and had told mutual falsehoods to unbelieving
tradesmen. And yet the younger woman, when tempted with a bribe worth lies and tricks as deep
and as black as Acheron, now stood on her dignity and her purity and stamped her foot with
honest indignation!

"I don't think you can understand it," said Lady Augustus.

"I can understand this,--that you have betrayed me; and that I shall tell him so in the plainest
words that I can use. To get his lawyer to write and offer me money!"

"He should not have gone to his lawyer. I do think he was wrong there."

"But you settled it with him; you, my mother;--a price at which he should buy himself off!
Would he have offered me money if he did not know that he had bound himself to me?"

"Nothing on earth would make him marry you. I would not for a moment have allowed him to allude
to money if that had not been quite certain."

"Who proposed the money first?"

Lady Augustus considered a moment before she answered. "Upon my word, my dear, I can't say.
He wrote the figures on a bit of paper; that was the way." Then she produced the scrap. "He
wrote the figures first,--and then I altered them, just as you see. The proposition came first
from him, of course."

"And you did not spit at him!" She tore the scrap into fragments.

"Arabella," said the mother, "it is clear that you do not look into the future. How do you
mean to live? You are getting old."

"Old!"

"Yes, my love,--old. Of course I am willing to do everything for you, as I always have done,--for
so many years, but there isn't a man in London who does not know how long you have been about it."

"Hold your tongue, mamma" said Arabella jumping up.

"That is all very well, but the truth has to be spoken. You and I cannot go on as we have been
doing."

"Certainly not. I would sooner be in a work-house."

"And here there is provided for you an income on which you can live. Not a soul will know anything
about it. Even your own father need not be told. As for the lawyer, that is nothing. They never
talk of things. It would make a man comparatively poor quite a fit match. Or, if you do not
marry, it would enable you to live where you pleased independently of me. You had better think
twice of it before you refuse it."

"I will not think of it at all. As sure as I am living here I will write to Rufford this very
evening and tell him in what light I regard both him and you."

"And what will you do then?"

"Hang myself."

"That is all very well, Arabella, but hanging yourself and jumping off Waterloo Bridge do not
mean anything. You must live, and you must pay your debts" I can't pay them for you. You go
into your own room, and think of it all, and be thankful for what Providence has sent you."

"You may as well understand that I am in earnest," the daughter said as she left the room.
"I shall write to Lord Rufford to-day and tell him what I think of him and his money. You need
not trouble yourself as to what shall be done with it; for I certainly shall not take it."

And she did write to Lord Rufford as follows:

My Lord,

I have been much astonished by a letter I have received from a gentleman in London, Mr. Shaw,
who I presume is your lawyer. When I received it I had not as yet seen mamma. I now understand
that you and she between you have determined that I should be compensated by a sum of money
for the injury you have done me! I scorn your money. I cannot think where you found the audacity
to make such a proposal, or how you have taught yourself to imagine that I should listen to
it. As to mamma, she was not commissioned to act for me, and I have nothing to do with anything
she may have said. I can hardly believe that she should have agreed to such a proposal. It
was very little like a gentleman in you to offer it.

Why did you offer it? You would not have proposed to give me a
large sum of money like that without some reason. I have been
shocked to hear that you have denied that you ever engaged yourself
to me. You know that you were engaged to me. It would have been
more honest and more manly if you had declared at once that you
repented of your engagement. But the truth is that till I see you
myself and hear what you have to say out of your own mouth I cannot
believe what other people tell me. I must ask you to name some
place where we can meet. As for this offer of money, it goes for
nothing. You must have known that I would not take it.
                                   Arabella.

It was now just the end of February, and the visit of the Trefoil ladies to the Connop Greens
had to come to an end. They had already overstaid the time at first arranged, and Lady Augustus,
when she hinted that another week at Marygold,--"just till this painful affair was finally
settled,"--would be beneficial to her, was informed that the Connop Greens themselves were
about to leave home. Lady Augustus had reported to Mrs. Connop Green that Lord Rufford was
behaving very badly, but that the matter was still in a "transition state." Mrs. Connop Green
was very sorry, but--. So Lady Augustus and Arabella betook themselves to Orchard Street, being
at that moment unable to enter in upon better quarters.

What a home it was,--and what a journey up to town! Arabella had told her mother that the letter
to Lord Rufford had been written and posted, and since that hardly a word had passed between
them. When they left Marygold in the Connop Green carriage they smiled, and shook hands, and
kissed their friends in unison, and then sank back into silence. At the station they walked
up and down the platform together for the sake of appearance, but did not speak. In the train
there were others with them and they both feigned to be asleep. Then they were driven to their
lodgings in a cab, still speechless. It was the mother who first saw that the horror of this
if continued would be too great to be endured. "Arabella," she said in a hoarse voice, "why
don't you speak?"

"Because I've got nothing to say."

"That's nonsense. There is always something to say."

"You have ruined me, mamma; just ruined me."

"I did for you the very best I could. If you would have been advised by me, instead of being
ruined, you would have had a handsome fortune. I have slaved for you for the last twelve years.
No mother ever sacrificed herself for her child more than I have done for you, and now see
the return I get. I sometimes think that it will kill me."

"That's nonsense."

"Everything I say is nonsense,--while you tell me one day that you are going to hang yourself,
and another day that you will drown yourself."

"So I would if I dared. What is it that you have brought me to? Who will have me in their houses
when they hear that you consented to take Lord Rufford's money?"

"Nobody will hear it unless you tell them."

"I shall tell my uncle and my aunt and Mistletoe, in order that they may know how it is that
Lord Rufford has been allowed to escape. I say that you have ruined me. If it had not been
for your vulgar bargain with him, he must have been brought to keep his word at last. Oh, that
he should have ever thought it was possible that I was to be bought off for a sum of money!"

Later on in the evening the mother again implored her daughter to speak to her. "What's the
use, mamma, when you know what we think of each other. What's the good of pretending? There
is nobody here to hear us." Later on still she herself began. "I don't know how much you've
got, mamma; but whatever it is, we'd better divide it. After what you did in Piccadilly we
shall never get on together again."

"There is not enough to divide," said Lady Augustus.

"If I had not you to go about with me I could get taken in pretty nearly all the year round."

"Who'd take you?"

"Leave that to me. I would manage it, and you could join with some other old person."

"We shall kill each other if we stay like this," said Arabella as she took up her candle.

"You have pretty nearly killed me as it is," said the old woman as the other shut the door.

CHAPTER IX

Changes at Bragton

Day after day old Mrs. Morton urged her purpose with her grandson at Bragton, not quite directly
as she had done at first, but by gradual approaches and little soft attempts made in the midst
of all the tenderness which, as a nurse, she was able to display. It soon came to pass that
the intruders were banished from the house, or almost banished. Mary's daily visits were discontinued
immediately after that last walk home with Reginald Morton which has been described. Twice
in the course of the next week she went over, but on both occasions she did so early in the
day, and returned alone just as he was reaching the house. And then, before a week was over,
early in March, Lady Ushant told the invalid that she would be better away. "Mrs. Morton doesn't
like me," she said, "and I had better go. But I shall stay for a while at Hoppet Hall; and
come in and see you from time to time till you get better." John Morton replied that he should
never get better; but though he said so then, there was at times evidence that he did not yet
quite despond as to himself. He could still talk to Mrs. Morton of buying Chowton Farm, and
was very anxious that he should not be forgotten at the Foreign Office.

Lady Ushant had herself driven to Hoppet Hall, and there took up her residence with her nephew.
Every other day Mr. Runciman's fly came for her and carried her backwards and forwards to Bragton.
On those occasions she would remain an hour with the invalid, and then would go back again,
never even seeing Mrs. Morton, though always seen by her. And twice after this banishment Reginald
walked over. But on the second occasion there was a scene. Mrs. Morton to whom he had never
spoken since he was a boy, met him in the hall and told him that his visits only disturbed
his sick cousin. "I certainly will not disturb him," Reginald had said. "In the condition in
which he is now he should not see many people," rejoined the lady. "If you will ask Dr. Fanning
he will tell you the same." Dr. Fanning was the London doctor who came down once a week, whom
it was improbable that Reginald should have an opportunity of consulting. But he remembered
or thought that he remembered, that his cousin had been fretful and ill-pleased during his
last visit, and so turned himself round and went home without another word.

"I am afraid there may be--I don't know what," said Lady Ushant to him in a whisper the next
morning.

"What do you mean?"

"I don't know what I mean. Perhaps I ought not to say a word. Only so much does depend on it!"

"If you are thinking about the property, aunt, wipe it out of your mind. Let him do what he
pleases and don't think about it. No one should trouble their minds about such things. It is
his, to do what he pleases with it."

"It is not him that I fear, Reginald."

"If he chooses to be guided by her, who shall say that he is wrong? Get it out of your mind.
The very thinking about such things is dirtiness!" The poor old lady submitted to the rebuke
and did not dare to say another word.

Daily Lady Ushant would send over for Mary Masters, thinking it cruel that her young friend
should leave her alone and yet understanding in part the reason why Mary did not come to her
constantly at Hoppet Hall. Poor Mary was troubled much by these messages. Of course she went
now and again. She had no alternative but to go, and yet, feeling that the house was his house,
she was most unwilling to enter it. Then grew within her a feeling, which she could not analyse,
that he had ill-used her. Of course she was not entitled to his love. She would acknowledge
to herself over and over again that he had never spoken a word to her which could justify her
in expecting his love. But why had he not let her alone? Why had he striven by his words and
his society to make her other than she would have been had she been left to the atmosphere
of her stepmother's home? Why had he spoken so strongly to her as to that young man's love?
And then she was almost angry with him because, by a turn in the wheel of fortune, he was about
to become, as she thought, Squire of Bragton. Had he remained simply Mr. Morton of Hoppet Hall
it would still have been impossible. But this exaltation of her idol altogether out of her
reach was an added injustice. She could remember, not the person, but all the recent memories
of the old Squire, the veneration with which he was named, the masterdom which was attributed
to him, the unequalled nobility of his position in regard to Dillsborough. His successor would
be to her as some one crowned, and removed by his crown altogether from her world. Then she
pictured to herself the stately dame who would certainly come, and she made fresh resolutions
with a sore heart.

"I don't know why you should be so very little with me," said Lady Ushant, almost whining.
"When I was at Cheltenham you wanted to come to me."

"There are so many things to be done at home."

"And yet you would have come to Cheltenham."

"We were in great trouble then, Lady Ushant. Of course I would like to be with you. You ought
not to scold me, because you know how I love you"

"Has the young man gone away altogether now, Mary?"

"Altogether."

"And Mrs. Masters is satisfied?"

"She knows it can never be, and therefore she is quiet about it."

"I was sorry for that young man, because he was so true."

"You couldn't be more sorry than I was, Lady Ushant. I love him as though he was a brother. But--"

"Mary, dear Mary, I fear you are in trouble."

"I think it is all trouble," said Mary, rushing forward and hiding her face in her old friend's
lap as she knelt on the ground before her. Lady Ushant longed to ask a question, but she did
not dare. And Mary Masters longed to have one friend to whom she could confide her secret,--but
neither did she dare.

On the next day, very early in the morning, there came a note from Mrs. Morton to Mr. Masters,
the attorney. Could Mr. Masters come out on that day to Bragton and see Mrs. Morton. The note
was very particular in saying that Mrs. Morton was to be the person seen. The messenger who
waited for an answer, brought back word that Mr. Masters would be there at noon. The circumstance
was one which agitated him considerably, as he had not been inside the house at Bragton since
the days immediately following the death of the old Squire. As it happened, Lady Ushant was
going to Bragton on the same day, and at the suggestion of Mr. Runciman, whose horses in the
hunting season barely sufficed for his trade, the old lady and the lawyer went together. Not
a word was said between them as to the cause which took either of them on their journey, but
they spoke much of the days in which they had known each other, when the old Squire was alive,
and Mr. Masters thanked Lady Ushant for her kindness to his daughter. "I love her almost as
though she were my own," said Lady Ushant. "When I am dead she will have half of what I have got."

"She will have no right to expect that," said the gratified father.

"She will have half or the whole, just as Reginald may be situated then. I don't know why I
shouldn't tell her father what it is I mean to do." The attorney knew to a shilling the amount
of Lady Ushant's income and thought that this was the best news he had heard for many a day.

While Lady Ushant was in the sick man's room, Mrs. Morton was closeted with the attorney. She
had thought much of this step before she had dared to take it and even now doubted whether
it would avail her anything. As she entered the book-room in which Mr. Masters was seated she
almost repented. But the man was there and she was compelled to go on with her scheme. "Mr.
Masters," she said, "it is I think a long time since you have been employed by this family."

"A very long time, Madam."

"And I have now sent for you under circumstances of great difficulty," she answered; but as
he said nothing she was forced to go on. "My grandson made his will the other day up in London,
when he thought that he was going out to Patagonia." Mr. Masters bowed. "It was done when he
was in sound health, and he is now not satisfied with it" Then there was another bow, but not
a word was spoken. "Of course you know that he is very ill."

"We have all been very much grieved to hear it"

"I am sure you would be, for the sake of old days. When Dr. Fanning was last here he thought
that my grandson was something better. He held out stronger hopes than before. But still he
is very ill. His mind has never wavered for a moment, Mr. Masters." Again Mr. Masters bowed.
"And now he thinks that some changes should be made;--indeed that there should be a new will."

"Does he wish me to see him, Mrs. Morton?"

"Not to-day, I think. He is not quite prepared to-day. But I wanted to ask whether you could
come at a moment's notice,--quite at a moment's notice. I thought it better, so that you should
know why we sent for you if we did send,--so that you might be prepared. It could be done here,
I suppose?"

"It would be possible, Mrs. Morton."

"And you could do it?"

Then there was a long pause. "Altering a will is a very serious thing, Mrs. Morton. And when
it is done on what perhaps may be a death-bed, it is a very serious thing indeed. Mr. Morton,
I believe, employs a London solicitor. I know the firm and more respectable gentlemen do not
exist. A telegram would bring down one of the firm from London by the next train."

A frown, a very heavy frown, came across the old woman's brow. She would have repressed it
had it been possible;--but she could not command herself, and the frown was there. "If that
had been practicable, Mr. Masters," she said, "we should not have sent for you."

"I was only suggesting, madame, what might be the best course."

"Exactly. And of course I am much obliged. But if we are driven to call upon you for your assistance,
we shall find it?"

"Madame," said the attorney very slowly, "it is of course part of my business to make wills,
and when called upon to do so, I perform my business to the best of my ability. But in altering
a will during illness great care is necessary. A codicil might be added--"

"A new will would be necessary."

A new will, thought the attorney, could only be necessary for altering the disposition of the
whole estate. He knew enough of the family circumstances to be aware that the property should
go to Reginald Morton whether with or without a will,--and also enough to be aware that this
old lady was Reginald's bitter enemy. He did not think that he could bring himself to take
instructions from a dying man,--from the Squire of Bragton on his death-bed,--for an instrument
which should alienate the property from the proper heir. He too had his strong feelings, perhaps
his prejudices, about Bragton. "I would wish that the task were in other hands, Mrs. Morton."

"Why so?"

"It is hard to measure the capacity of an invalid."

"His mind is as clear as yours"

"It might be so,--and yet I might not be able to satisfy myself that it was so. I should have
to ask long and tedious questions, which would be offensive. And I should find myself giving
advice,-- which would not be called for. For instance, were your grandson to wish to leave
this estate away from the heir--"

"I am not discussing his wishes, Mr. Masters."

"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Morton, for making the suggestion;--but as I said before, I should
prefer that he should employ some one else."

"You refuse then?"

"If Mr. Morton were to send for me, I should go to him instantly. But I fear I might be slow
in taking his instructions;--and it is possible that I might refuse to act on them." Then she
got up from her chair and bowing to him with stately displeasure left the room.

All this she had done without any authority from her grandson, simply encouraged in her object
by his saying in his weakness, that he would think of her proposition. So intent was she on
her business that she was resolved to have everything ready if only he could once be brought
to say that Peter Morton should be his heir. Having abandoned all hopes for her noble cousin
she could tell her conscience that she was instigated simply by an idea of justice. Peter Morton
was at any rate the legitimate son of a well-born father and a wellborn mother. What had she
or any one belonging to her to gain by it? But forty years since a brat had been born at Bragton
in opposition to her wishes,--by whose means she had been expelled from the place; and now
it seemed to her to be simple justice that he should on this account be robbed of that which
would otherwise be naturally his own. As Mr. Masters would not serve her turn she must write
to the London lawyers. The thing would be more difficult; but, nevertheless, if the sick man
could once be got to say that Peter should be his heir she thought that she could keep him
to his word. Lady Ushant and Mr. Masters went back to Dillsborough in Runciman's fly, and it
need hardly be said that the attorney said nothing of the business which had taken him to Bragton.

This happened on a Wednesday,--Wednesday the 3rd of March. On Friday morning, at 4 o'clock,
during the darkness of the night, John Morton was lying dead on his bed, and the old woman
was at his bedside. She had done her duty by him as far as she knew how in tending him, had
been assiduous with the diligence of much younger years; but now as she sat there, having had
the fact absolutely announced to her by Dr. Nupper, her greatest agony arose from the feeling
that the roof which covered her, probably the chair in which she sat, were the property of
Reginald Morton--"Bastard!" she said to herself between her teeth; but she so said it that
neither Dr. Nupper, who was in the room, nor the woman who was with her should hear it.

Dr. Nupper took the news into Dillsborough, and as the folk sat down to breakfast they all
heard that the Squire of Bragton was dead. The man had been too little known, had been too
short a time in the neighbourhood, to give occasion for tears. There was certainly more of
interest than of grief in the matter. Mr. Masters said to himself that the time had been too
short for any change in the will, and therefore felt tolerably certain that Reginald would
be the heir. But for some days this opinion was not general in Dillsborough. Mr. Mainwaring
had heard that Reginald had been sent away from Bragton with a flea in his ear, and was pretty
certain that when the will was read it would be found that the property was to go to Mrs. Morton's
friends. Dr. Nupper was of the same opinion. There were many in Dillsborough with whom Reginald
was not popular;--and who thought that some man of a different kind would do better as Squire
of Bragton. "He don't know a fox when he sees 'un," said Tony Tuppett to Larry Twentyman, whom
he had come across the county to call upon and to console.

CHAPTER X

The Will

On that Saturday the club met at Dillsborough,--even though the Squire of Bragton had died
on Friday morning. Through the whole of that Saturday the town had been much exercised in its
belief and expressions, as to the disposition of the property. The town knew very well that
Mr. Masters, the attorney, had been sent for to Bragton on the previous Wednesday,--whence
the deduction as to a new will, made of course under the auspices of Mrs. Morton, would have
been quite plain to the town, had not a portion of the town heard that the attorney had not
been for a moment with the dying man during his visit. This latter piece of information had
come through Lady Ushant, who had been in her nephew's bedroom the whole time;--but Lady Ushant
had not much personal communication with the town generally, and would probably have said nothing
on this subject had not Mr. Runciman walked up to Hoppet Hall behind the fly, after Mr. Masters
had left it; and, while helping her ladyship out, made inquiry as to the condition of things
at Bragton generally. "I was sorry to hear of their sending for any lawyer," said Mr. Runciman.
Then Lady Ushant protested that the lawyer had not been sent for by her nephew, and that her
nephew had not even seen him. "Oh, indeed," said Mr. Runciman, who immediately took a walk
round his own paddock with the object of putting two and two together. Mr. Runciman was a discreet
man, and did not allow this piece of information to spread itself generally. He told Dr. Nupper,
and Mr. Hampton, and Lord Rufford,--for the hounds went out on Friday, though the Squire of
Bragton was lying dead;--but he did not tell Mr. Mainwaring, whom he encountered in the street
of the town as he was coming home early, and who was very keen to learn whatever news there was.

Reginald Morton on Friday did not go near Bragton. That of course was palpable to all, and
was a great sign that he himself did not regard himself as the heir. He had for awhile been
very intimate at the house, visiting it daily--and during a part of that time the grandmother
had been altogether absent. Then she had come back, and he had discontinued his visits. And
now he did not even go over to seal up the drawers and to make arrangements as to the funeral.
He did not at any rate go on the Friday,--nor on the Saturday. And on the Saturday Mr. Wobytrade,
the undertaker, had received orders from Mrs. Morton to go at once to Bragton. All this was
felt to be strong against Reginald. But when it was discovered that on the Saturday afternoon
Mrs. Morton herself had gone up to London, not waiting even for the coming of any one else
to take possession of the house,--and that she had again carried all her own personal luggage
with her, then opinion in Dillsborough again veered. Upon the whole the betting was a point
or two in favour of Reginald, when the club met.

Mrs. Masters, who had been much quelled of late, had been urgent with her husband to go over
to the Bush; but he was unwilling, he said, to be making jolly while the Squire of Bragton
was lying unburied. "He was nothing to you, Gregory," said his wife, who had in vain endeavoured
to learn from him why he had been summoned to Bragton--"You will hear something over there,
and it will relieve your spirits." So instigated he did go across, and found all the accustomed
members of the club congregated in the room. Even Larry Twentyman was present, who of late
had kept himself aloof from all such meetings. Both the Botseys were there, and Nupper and
Harry Stubbings, and Ribbs the butcher. Runciman himself of course was in the room, and he
had introduced on this occasion Captain Glomax, the master of the hunt, who was staying at
his house that night,-- perhaps with a view to hunting duties on the Monday, perhaps in order
that he might hear something as to the Bragton property. It had already been suggested to him
that he might possibly hire the house for a year or two at little more than a nominal rent,
that the old kennels might be resuscitated, and that such arrangements would be in all respects
convenient. He was the master of the hunt, and of course there was no difficulty as to introducing
him to the club.

Captain Glomax was speaking in a somewhat dictatorial voice,--as becomes a Master of Hounds
when in the field, though perhaps it should be dropped afterwards--when the Attorney entered.
There was a sudden rise of voices striving to interrupt the Captain, as it was felt by them
all that Mr. Masters must be in possession of information; but the Captain himself went on.
"Of course it is the place for the hounds. Nobody can doubt that who knows the country and
understands the working of it. The hunt ought to have subscribed and hired the kennels and
stables permanently."

"There would have wanted two to that bargain, Captain," said Mr. Runciman.

"Of course there would, but what would you think of a man who would refuse such a proposition
when he didn't want the place himself? Do you think if I'd been there foxes would have been
poisoned in Dillsborough wood? I'd have had that fellow Goarly under my thumb."

"Then you'd have had an awful blackguard under your thumb, Captain Glomax," said Larry, who
could not restrain his wrath when Goarly's name was mentioned.

"What does that matter, if you get foxes?" continued the Master. "But the fact is, gentlemen
in a county like this always want to have everything done for them, and never to do anything
for themselves. I'm sick of it, I know. Nobody is fonder of hunting a country than I am, and
I think I know what I'm about."

"That you do," said Fred Botsey, who, like most men, was always ready to flatter the Master.

"And I don't care how hard I work. From the first of August till the end of May I never have
a day to myself, what with cubbing and then the season, and entering the young hounds, and
buying and selling horses, by George I'm at it the whole year."

"A Master of Hounds looks for that, Captain," said the innkeeper.

"Looks for it! Yes; he must look for it. But I wouldn't mind that, if I could get gentlemen
to pull a little with me. I can't stand being out of pocket as I have been, and so I must let
them know. If the country would get the kennels and the stables, and lay out a few pounds so
that horses and hounds and men could go into them, I wouldn't mind having a shot for the house.
It's killing work where I am now, the other side of Rufford, you may say." Then he stopped;--but
no one would undertake to answer him. The meaning of it was that Captain Glomax wanted 500
pounds a year more than he received, and every one there knew that there was not 500 pounds
a year more to be got out of the country,--unless Lord Rufford would put his hand into his
pocket. Now the present stables and the present kennels had been "made comfortable" by Lord
Rufford, and it was not thought probable that he would pay for the move to Bragton.

"When's the funeral to be, Mr. Masters?" asked Runciman,--who knew very well the day fixed,
but who thought it well to get back to the subject of real interest in the town.

"Next Thursday, I'm told."

"There's no hurry with weather like this," said Nupper professionally.

"They can't open the will till the late squire is buried," continued the innkeeper, "and there
will be one or two very anxious to know what is in it"

"I suppose it will all go to the man who lives up here at Hoppet Hall," said the Captain,--"a
man that was never outside a horse in his life!"

"He's not a bad fellow," said Runciman.

"He is a very good fellow," said the Attorney, "and I trust he may have the property. If it
be left away from him, I for one shall think that a great injustice has been done." This was
listened to with attention, as every one there thought that Mr. Masters must know.

"I can't understand," said Glomax, "how any man can be considered a good fellow as a country
gentleman who does not care for sport. Just look at it all round. Suppose others were like
him what would become of us all?"

"Yes indeed, what would become of us?" asked the two Botseys in a breath.

"Ho'd 'ire our 'orses, Runciman?" suggested Harry Stubbings with a laugh.

"Think what England would be!" said the Captain. "When I hear of a country gentleman sticking
to books and all that, I feel that the glory is departing from the land. Where are the sinews
of war to come from? That's what I want to know."

