    And back in a moment she came again
      And close to her darling's side
    With a bitter-sweet drop of honey dew,
      Which she dropped in its mouth so wide.
    Then away, with a strange wild mournful note
      Of sorrow, which seemed to say
    "Goodbye, my darling, my birdie dear,
      Goodbye for many a day."

    A quick wild flutter of tiny wings,
      A faint low chirp of pain,
    A throb of the little aching heart
      And birdie was free again.
    Oh sorrowful anguished mother-heart,
      'Twas all that she could do,
    She had set it free from a captive's life
      In the only way she knew.

    Poor little birdie! it never will fly
      On tiny and tireless wing.
    Through the pearly blue of the summer sky,
      Or sing the sweet songs of spring.
    And I think, little dears, if you had seen
      The same sad sorrowful sight,
    You never would cage a free wild bird
      To suffer a captive's plight.
                               --MARY MORRISON.

THE WHITE-BREASTED NUTHATCH.

Nearly every one readily recognizes this species as it runs up and down and around the branches
and trunks of trees in search of insect food, now and then uttering its curious Quauk, quauk,
quauk. The White-breasted Nuthatch is often improperly called "Sapsucker," a name commonly
applied to the Downy Woodpecker and others. It is a common breeding bird and usually begins
nesting early in April, and two broods are frequently reared in a season. For its nesting place
it usually selects the decayed trunk of a tree or stub, ranging all the way from two to sixty
feet above the ground. The entrance may be a knot hole, a small opening, or a small round hole
with a larger cavity at the end of it. Often the old excavation of the Downy Woodpecker is
made use of. Chicken feathers, hair, and a few dry leaves loosely thrown together compose the nest.

This Nuthatch is abundant throughout the State of Illinois, and is a permanent resident everywhere
except perhaps of the extreme northern counties. It seems to migrate in spring and return in
autumn, but, in reality, as is well known, only retreats to the woodlands to breed, emerging
again when the food supply grows scant in the autumn.

The Nuthatches associate familiarly with the Kinglets and Titmice, and often travel with them.
Though regarded as shy birds they are not really so. Their habits of restlessness render them
difficult of examination. "Tree-mice" is the local name given them by the farmers, and would
be very appropriate could they sometimes remain as motionless as that diminutive animal.

Careful observation has disclosed that the Nuthatches do not suck the sap from trees, but that
they knock off bits of decayed or loose bark with the beak to obtain the grubs or larvae beneath.
They are beneficial to vegetation. Ignorance is responsible for the misapplied names given
to many of our well disposed and useful birds, and it would be well if teachers were to discourage
the use of inappropriate names and familiarize the children with those recognized by the best
authorities.

Referring to the Nuthatches Mr. Baskett says: "They are little bluish gray birds, with white
undervests--sometimes a little soiled. Their tails are ridiculously short, and never touch
the tree; neither does the body, unless they are suddenly affrighted, when they crouch and
look, with their beaks extended, much like a knot with a broken twig on it. I have sometimes
put the bird into this attitude by clapping my hands loudly near the window. It is an impulse
that seems to come to the bird before flight, especially if the head should be downward. His
arrival is sudden, and seems often to be distinguished by turning a somersault before alighting,
head downward, on the tree trunk, as if he had changed his mind so suddenly about alighting
that it unbalanced him.

"I once saw two Nuthatches at what I then supposed was a new habit. One spring day some gnats
were engaged in their little crazy love waltzes in the air, forming small whirling clouds,
and the birds left off bark-probing and began capturing insects on the wing. They were awkward
about it with their short wings, and had to alight frequently to rest. I went out to them,
and so absorbed were they that they allowed me to approach within a yard of a limb that they
came to rest upon, where they would sit and pant till they caught their breath, when they went
at it again. They seemed fairly to revel in a new diet and a new exercise."

SUMMARY

Page 83.

#YELLOW WARBLER.#--Dendroica æstiva. Other names: "Summer Yellow-bird," "Wild Canary," "Yellow-poll
Warbler."

RANGE--The whole of North America; breeding throughout its range. In winter, the whole of middle
America and northern South America.

NEST--Built in an apple tree, cup-shaped, neat and compact, composed of plant fibres, bark, etc.

EGGS--Four or five; greenish-white, spotted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 88.

#HERMIT THRUSH.#--Turdus aonalaschkæ pallasii. Other names: "Swamp Angel," "Ground Swamp Robin."

NEST--On the ground, in some low, secluded spot, beneath shelter of deep shrubbery. Bulky and
loosely made of leaves, bark, grasses, mosses, lined with similar finer material.

EGGS--Three or four; of greenish blue, unspotted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 91.

#SONG SPARROW.#--Melospiza fasciata.

RANGE--Eastern United States and British Provinces, west to the Plains, breeding chiefly north
of 40°, except east of the Alleghenies.

NEST--On the ground, or in low bushes, of grasses, weeds, and leaves, lined with fine grass
stems, roots, and, in some cases, hair.

EGGS--Four to seven; varying in color from greenish or pinkish white to light bluish green,
spotted with dark reddish brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 95.

#YELLOW-BILLED CUCKOO.#--Coccyzus americanus. Other names: "Rain Crow," "Rain Dove," and "Chow-Chow."

RANGE--Eastern North America to British Provinces, west to Great Plains, south in winter, West
Indies and Costa Rica.

NEST--In low tree or bush, of dried sticks, bark strips and catkins.

EGGS--Two to four; of glaucous green which fades on exposure to the light.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 100.

#RUBY-THROATED HUMMING BIRD.#--Trochilus colubris.

RANGE--Eastern North America to the Plains north to the fur countries, and south in winter
to Cuba and Veragua.

NEST--A circle an inch and a half in diameter, made of fern wool, etc., shingled with lichens
to match the color of the branch on which it is saddled.

EGGS--Two; pure white, the size of soup beans.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 101.

#HOUSE WREN.#--Troglodytes aedon.

RANGE--Eastern United States and southern Canada, west to the Mississippi Valley; winters in
southern portions.

NEST--Miscellaneous rubbish, sticks, grasses, hay, and the like.

EGGS--Usually seven; white, dotted with reddish brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 106.

#PHOEBE.#--Sayornis phoebe. Other names: "Pewit," "Pewee."

RANGE--Eastern North America; in winter south to Mexico and Cuba.

NEST--Compactly and neatly made of mud and vegetable substances, with lining of grass and feathers.

EGGS--Four or five; pure white, sometimes sparsely spotted with reddish brown dots at larger end.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 110.

#RUBY-CROWNED KINGLET.#--Regulus calendula.

RANGE--Entire North America, wintering in the South and in northern Central America.

NEST--Very rare, only six known; of hair, feathers, moss, etc., bulky, globular, and partly
pensile.

EGGS--Five to nine; dull whitish or pale puffy, speckled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 113.

