And then, when the tide of battle seemed adverse, England, giving her whole moral aid to the
rebellion, demanded from us restitution and apology in the case of the Trent, for an act, which
had received the repeated sanction of her own example. Her press then teemed with atrocious
falsehoods, insulting threats, and exulting annunciations of our downfall. Her imperious ultimatum,
excluding arbitrament, was accompanied by fleets and armies, her cannon thundered on our coast,
and she became the moral ally of that very slavery which she had forced upon the South, but
which, for nearly thirty years past, she made the theme of fierce denunciation of our country,
and constant agitation here, with one ever-present purpose, the destruction of this Union.
And now let not England suppose, that there is an American, who does not feel the insult and
understand the motive. England beheld, in our wonderful progress, the ocean's scepter slipping
from her grasp, our grain and cotton almost feeding and clothing the world, our augmenting
skill and capital, our inventive genius, and ever-improving machinery, our educated, intelligent,
untaxed labor, the marvelous increase of our revenue, tonnage, and manufactures, and our stupendous
internal communications, natural and artificial, by land and water. The last census exhibited
to her, our numbers increasing in a ratio, making the mere addition, in the next twenty-five
years, equal to her whole population, and our wealth augmenting in a far greater proportion.
She saw our mines and mountains of coal and iron, (her own great element of progress,) exceed
hers nearly twenty times, our hydraulic power, incalculably greater than that of Great Britain;
a single American river, with its tributaries, long enough to encircle the globe, and that
England might be anchored as an island in our inland seas. She witnessed Connecticut, smaller
than many English counties, and with but one sixth the population of some of them, appropriating
more money for education in that State, than the British Parliament for the whole realm; that
we had more heads at work among our laboring classes than all Europe, and she realized the
great truth, that knowledge is power, reposing on common schools for the whole people. She
measured our continental area, laved by two oceans, as also by the lakes and the gulf, with
a more genial sun, and a soil far more fertile and productive than that of England, and nearly
thirty times greater in extent. She saw us raise within the loyal States a volunteer army of
three fourths of a million, without a conscript, the largest, and far the most intelligent
and effective force in the world, and millions more ready, whenever called, to rush to the
defense of the Union, whilst a great and gallant navy rose, as if by enchantment, from the
ocean. She marked the rapid transfer of the command of the commerce of the world from London
to New-York. She observed the transcendent success of our free institutions, and with that
'fear of change, perplexing monarchs,' she dreaded the moral influence of our republican system.
But why should any friend of his country, or of mankind, object to this, if it promoted the
welfare of the people? We reject all force or intervention. Our only influence is that of our
example. If our system was a failure, the institutions of England were not endangered, but
strengthened by such a result. It was their success only that made them dangerous, not to the
people of England, but to dynastic ambition, to aristocratic rule, and to selfish interests.
To insure our permanent division, was to destroy us. Hence, she encouraged the South, acknowledged
her as a belligerent, welcomed the rebel flag and war vessels into her ports, protected them
there, enabled them to elude our cruisers, and prepared to aid and sustain slavery. For a time,
with the exception of Cobden and Bright, we seemed to have had scarcely an influential friend
in England. Her masses favored us, but five sixths of them are excluded from the polls by restricted
suffrage. For a time, King Cotton never had more loyal subjects, than those who then controlled
the press and government of England. Our Union was to be severed, the Southern confederacy
acknowledged, the blockade broken, free trade between the South and England established, cotton
given her, and refused us; we were to be forever cut off from the gulf and the lower Mississippi;
Portland (the star of the East) was to become a British city, and Maine, always loyal and patriotic,
was to be wrested from us, and reannexed to the British crown. It was the carnival of despots,
exulting over our anticipated ruin, in our death-struggle in the great cause of human liberty
and human progress.

And yet it was England that forced slavery upon the South against its earnest protest, and
colonial acts vetoed by the British crown. Then, during our colonial weakness and dependence,
the kings, and queens, and parliaments of England, not only legalized and encouraged the African
slave-trade, but gave charters and monopolies for the wretched traffic. Then the lords and
noble ladies, the blood royal, the merchant-princes, and even the mitred prelates of England,
engaged most extensively in this accursed commerce, and thousands of the rich and noble of
England enjoy now, by inheritance, fortunes thus accumulated. British vessels, sailing from
British ports, openly displayed there upon their decks the shackles that were to bind the victims,
thousands of whom, in the horrors of the middle passage, found unshrouded in an ocean grave,
a happy escape from sufferings and misery indescribable. It was to these, our then infant,
feeble, and dependent, but protesting colonies of the South, most of these slaves were forced
by British avarice, and royal vetoes on colonial acts of the South prohibiting the traffic.

This war, then, is mainly the work of England. She forced slavery here, and then commenced
and inflamed here the anti-slavery agitation, assailing the Constitution and the Union, arresting
the progress of manumission in the Border States, and finally culminating in the rebellion.
Here, then, in the South are slavery and rebellion, branches of that Upas tree, whose seeds
were planted in our soil by England.

England, then, should never have reproached us with slavery. The work was hers, and hers may
yet be the dread retribution of avenging justice. Had the contest she provoked in the Trent
affair then happened, the result might have been very different from her expectations. Instead
of a ruined country, and divided Union, and God save the King played under the cross of St.
George in Boston, New-York, and Philadelphia, she might have heard the music of Yankee Doodle,
Hail Columbia, and the Star-Spangled Banner on the heights of Quebec, reëchoed in fraternal
chorus over the Union intended by God, under one government, of the valley of the lakes and
the St. Lawrence. Looking nearer home, she might have beheld that banner, whose stars she would
have extinguished in blood, floating triumphantly, in union with the Shamrock, over that glorious
Emerald Isle, whose generous heart beats with love of the American Union, and whose blood,
now as ever heretofore, is poured out in copious libations in its defense. Indeed, but for
the forbearance of our Government, and the judgment and good sense of Lord Lyons, the conflict
was inevitable.

The hope was expressed by me in England that 'those glorious isles would become the breakwater
of liberty, against which the surges of European despotism would dash in vain.' This was her
true policy, justice to Ireland, successive reforms in her system, a further wise extension
of the suffrage, with the vote by ballot, a cordial moral alliance with her kindred race in
America, and a full participation, mutually beneficial, in our ever enlarging commerce. But
her oligarchy has chosen coalition with the South and slavery, and war upon our Union and the
republican principle. Divide and conquer is their motto, SUICIDE will be their epitaph.

England is now playing her part in the fourth act of the drama of slavery. During the first
act, for more than a century, she was actively engaged in the African slave-trade, and in forcing
the victims, as slaves, upon the colonies, against their protest. The British pulpit, press,
and hustings, her universities, literature, courts, bar, statesmen, and orators, were all devoted
to assaults on American slavery, and upon our Constitution, for tolerating the system, even
for a moment. Her Parliament most graciously favored us with one of its own members, to denounce
in the North, the slavery of the South, inflaming sectional passions and hatred, with the fixed
purpose of dissolving the Union. As all the slaves whom England had sent to Boston, had been
manumitted in 1780, and there was no slavery there, the object was, not to abolish slavery,
or the mission would have been to the South, where the institution and the power over it existed,
but the movement was made in the North, not to destroy slavery, but to dissolve the Union.
England having failed to accomplish our overthrow in the two great wars of 1776 and 1812, she
commenced the third war upon us, not from the mouths of her cannon, but in zealous efforts,
continued now for more than a fourth of a century, to divide the Union, by the agitation of
this question. We are indebted to England for the curse of slavery, and then for the slavery
agitation. In this she has been but too successful North and South; but if slavery should perish
in the conflict, she will mourn the result, because it removes our only dangerous element of
discord.

And now the curtain has risen on the fourth act, and England, as always heretofore, is the
chief actor. And where now is the great anti-slavery agitator? Why, England has reversed her
position, and suddenly discovered the surpassing beauty and perfection of secession and slavery.
Secession, an anarchical absurdity, destructive of all law, and all government, she kindly
adopts as the true theory of our system. This heresy was discarded by Washington, Madison,
Hamilton, and all the illustrious founders of the Constitution. It was exposed, in all its
deformity, by Jackson, Clay, and Webster, in 1833, when it was rejected by every State, except
South-Carolina. But England repudiates the doctrine at home, and abroad also, except for our
country. Substituting her wishes for the fact, she declares we are not a nation, and that any
State has a legal and moral right to secede and dissolve the Union. Deplorable would have been
the folly of such a system, and well then might England have exulted over the failure of republics.
Nothing but her intense desire for this failure could have induced England to adopt this absurd
doctrine. The whole world perceives the motive for so false a pretense, and history will expose
and denounce it.

And now, as to slavery, let us compare the England of 1834 and 1860, and all the intermediate
period, with the England of 1861 and 1862. What a revolution? Where now are her daily denunciations
of slavery? Where now is Exeter Hall, so lately teeming with anti slavery harangues, but now
cheering the slavery rebellion? Where are the abolition lords and ladies of England; where
the reverend clergy; where the public press, and Parliament? Has England been struck dumb in
a moment, that she can no longer denounce a system which, up to the hour of pro-slavery secession,
she had, from day to day, during more than a fourth of a century, declared to combine all the
crimes of the decalogue? Where now are the compliments that were lavished upon Uncle Tom's
Cabin and its gifted writer? Where are the notices in England, of our recent great anti-slavery
work, Among the Pines, by the celebrated Edmund Kirke, 'who awoke one morning and found himself
famous'? The book is read and circulated here by thousands, but none will notice or take it
now in England.

But England is not silent. Her press, her statesmen, and even members of her cabinet, declare
that the rebellion has dissolved our Union, and destroyed our Government. They say we can never
conquer the rebellion; that we should abandon the contest, acknowledge the South as an independent
power, give it all the Gulf, two thirds of the Atlantic, all the Chesapeake, half the Ohio,
all the lower Mississippi and its mouth, cut our territory into two parts, acknowledge the
right of secession, and the absolute dissolution of the Union. Such is the assurance of rightful
and certain success by which England encourages the rebels, while surrender, is the advice
she gratuitously urges upon us, from day to day. But England is not the only false prophet
whose predictions were based only on her wishes. Indeed, many of her presses and statesmen
openly avow their belief and desire that the Union should be overthrown. Our area, they say,
is too large, although all compact and connected by the greatest arterial river-system of the
globe. But England is not large enough, and new possessions are constantly added by the sword,
although her territory is double our own, and scattered over all the continents, and many of
the isles of the world. If, before or shortly after this struggle began, England had spoken
a word of friendship and sympathy for us--if she had but repeated her former denunciations
of slavery, and given us the moral weight of her opinion--the rebellion would have been crushed
long since. If--claiming to be our mother--she had only, in this crisis, acted as such, in
her hour of need a kindred race would have rallied to her rescue. But now, so long as this
wicked oligarchy rules her destiny never--never! It was England forced slavery upon us. It
was England fastened upon our feeble, youthful limbs, this poisoned shirt of Nessus, and then,
when we were tearing it from us, even though the vitals and the life-blood might follow, England
exulted in what she believed to be our dying agonies.

This is no fancy sketch, but a dread reality. It has filled our cup with sorrow; it is mingled
with every tear that falls upon the dying patriot's couch; it is wafted with every agonizing
sigh that follows the departed spirit; it is felt in every house of mourning, and is seared,
in letters of fire and blood, upon the memory of every American.

But England now says that Slavery was not the cause of the war. Yet it was so avowed in every
secession ordinance, and in the confederate constitution. None but a slave State revolted;
none but a slave State can be admitted into the rebel confederacy; and slavery is extended
by their constitution over all existing or after-acquired territory. If England should ever
form a part of slavedom, slavery would be extended there, and slaves could be bought and sold
in London. Other revolts have been against tyranny, but this is a rebellion of slavery against
freedom, of the few against the many, of the bayonet against the ballot, of capital invested
in man as a chattel, against free labor and free men. The tariff was scarcely referred to in
the contest at the South. The tariff then existing was a free-trade measure, prepared by the
leaders of this rebellion, and passed in 1856, by the aid of their votes. That tariff was twenty
per cent lower than the revenue act of 1846. The tariff of 1846 was proposed in the Treasury
Report of December, 1845, which report was quoted by Sir Robert Peel in his speech of January,
1846, and made the basis of his motion to repeal the corn laws. But the free-trade bill of
1856 (duties on exports being prohibited) was the law of the land when the Cotton States seceded
in December, 1860, and January and February, 1861, and inaugurated the rebel government. It
was not until after all this, that this measure was repealed, in March, 1861. This repeal could
never have occurred but for the prior withdrawal of the Cotton States from Congress. The great
agricultural and exporting North-west was opposed to high tariffs; so also was New-York, the
great mart of foreign commerce. The South has always been greatly divided on this question,
and, since the act of 1846, the aggregate popular vote of the North has always been nearly
double that of the South against high tariffs. The author of the tariff of 1846, is now, as
always heretofore, devoting all his energies to the support of the Union. So is the distinguished
Republican Senator from Pennsylvania, the author of the celebrated anti-slavery Wilmot Proviso,
who, with many other Republican Senators and members supported the tariff of 1846. So is the
eminent ex-Vice-President, (who gave the celebrated casting vote for the tariff of 1846,) supporting
the Union. But it is enough that a majority of Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet supported the tariff of
1846. No, the tariff had nothing to do with the rebellion. It was slavery alone that produced
the revolt. There are, however, thousands who favored the act of 1846, and even of 1856, desiring
enlarged trade between friendly nations, who regard England now, as the enemy of our Union,
the champion of secession, and the friend of this infernal pro-slavery rebellion.

I have stated that the South must know what course we intend to pursue in regard to slavery.
But not only the South, but our friends and enemies, and all the world must also know, that
the AMERICAN UNION SHALL NEVER BE DISMEMBERED. The lakes can never be separated from the Gulf,
nor the Eastern from the Western Ocean. As the sun high advanced in the heavens illumes our
flag on the Atlantic, its first morning beams shall salute our kindred banner-stars on the
shores of the Pacific, the present western limit of this great republic. Already the telegraphic
lightning flashes intelligence from ocean to ocean, and soon the iron horse, starting from
the Atlantic on his continental tour, shall announce his own advent on the shores of the Pacific,
The lakes of the North are united by railroads and canals with the Atlantic, the Gulf, the
Ohio, and Mississippi, and our iron gunboats, bearing aloft in war and in peace the emblems
of our country's glory, are soon to perform their great circuit from the Albemarle, the Potomac,
the Chesapeake, the Susquehanna, the Delaware, and the Hudson, to the Lakes and the Mississippi.
The Ohio and Missouri, the Red River and the Arkansas, shall never be dissevered from the Mississippi.
Pittsburgh and Louisville, Cincinnati and St. Louis, shall never be separated from New-Orleans,
or mark the capitals of disunited and discordant States. That glorious free-trade between all
the States (the great cause of our marvelous progress) shall in time, notwithstanding the present
suicidal folly of England, go on in its circuit among accordant peoples throughout the globe,
the precursor of that era of universal and unrestricted commerce, whose sceptre is peace, and
whose reign the fusion and fraternity of nations, as foretold by the holy prophets in the Scriptures
of truth.

This great valley, one mighty plain, without an intervening mountain, contains, west of the
Mississippi, seven States and Territories of an area sufficient for thirteen more of the size
of New-York. East of the Mississippi, it embraces all the remaining States except New-England,
New-Jersey, Delaware, South-Carolina, and Florida. New-York is connected with the great valley
by the Alleghany River; and Maryland by the Castleman's River and the Youghiogany, and Alabama,
North-Carolina, and Georgia, by the Tennessee and its tributaries. Nearly one half the area
of Pennsylvania and Virginia is within its limits. Michigan is united with it by the Wisconsin
River, and Texas by the Red River; whilst Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky, Wisconsin, Illinois,
Tennessee, and Mississippi, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas, Louisiana, and Arkansas own
almost exclusively its sway.

And who will dare erect the feeble barriers designed to seclude the great valley and its products
from either ocean, the Lakes, or the Gulf, or persuade her to hold these essential rights and
interests by the wretched tenure of the will of any seceding State? No line but one of blood,
of military despotisms, and perpetual war, can ever separate this great valley. The idea is
sacrilege. It is the raving of a maniac. Separation is death. Disunion is suicide. If the South
presents the issue that the Union or slavery must perish, the result is not doubtful. Slavery
will die. It will meet a traitor's doom, wherever it selects a traitor's position. The Union
will still live. It is written on the scroll of destiny, by the finger of God, that 'neither
principalities nor powers' shall effect its overthrow, nor shall 'the gates of hell prevail
against it.'

Nor will we ever surrender the grave of Washington. There, upon the Potomac, on whose banks
he was born and died, the flag of the Union must float over his sacred sepulchre, until the
dead shall be summoned from their graves by the trump of the resurrection.

The Fourth of July, 1776, when our name was first inscribed upon the roll of nations, shall
be forever commemorated under one flag, and as the birthday of one undivided Union. The memorable
declaration of American Independence, the Articles of Confederation, the Constitution of the
United States, all subscribed upon that consecrated ground at Independence Hall, Philadelphia,
shall ever mark the noble commonwealth of Pennsylvania as the keystone of the arch of a perpetual
and unbroken Union.

Nor shall any but the same banner be unfolded over the graves of the patriots and statesmen
of the Revolution, or the battle-fields of the mighty conflict.

And around the graves of Washington and Jackson, and in memory of their solemn farewell appeals
in favor of the Union, how could Virginia or Tennessee ever have been disloyal? No, they were
not disloyal, but were torn, by rebel fraud and violence, from that banner round which they
will again rejoice to rally.

We must not despair of the Republic. All is not lost. The Union yet lives. Its restoration
approaches. The calm will soon follow the storm. The golden sunlight and the silver edging
of the azure clouds will be seen again in the horizon. The bow of promise will appear in the
heavens, to mark the retiring of the bitter waters, proclaiming from on high, that now, henceforth,
and forever, no second secession deluge shall ever disturb the onward, united, and peaceful
march of the Republic.

OUR WOUNDED.

  As loftier rise the ocean's heaving crests,
    Ere they sink, tempest-driven, on the strand;
  So do these hearts and freedom-beating breasts,
    Sublimed by suffering, fall upon our land.

  Wounded! O sweet-lipped word! for on the page
    Of this strange history, all these scars shall be
  The hieroglyphics of a valiant age,
    Deep writ in freedom's blood-red mystery.

  What though your fate sharp agony reveals!
    What though the mark of brother's blows you bear!
  The breath of your oppression upward steals,
    Like incense from crushed spices into air.

  Freedom lies listening, nor as yet averts
    The battle horrors of these months' slow length;
  But as she listens, silently she girts
    More close, more firm, the armor of her strength.

  Then deem them not as lost, these bitter days,
    Nor those which yet in anguish must be spent
  Far from loved skies and home's peace-moving ways,
    For these are not the losses you lament.

  It is the glory that your country bore,
    Which you would rescue from a living grave;
  It is the unity that once she wore,
    Which your true hearts are yearning still to save.

  Despair not: it is written, though the eye,
    Red with its watching, can no future scan:
  The glow of triumph yet shall flush the sky,
    And God redeem the ruin made by man.

A SOUTHERN REVIEW.

A friend 'down South' has kindly sent us a number of 'De Bow's Review, Industrial Resources,
etc.,' as its elegantly worded title-page proclaims. It is true that the number in question
is none of the freshest, it having appeared at Charleston, in December last. Yet, as a Southern
magazine published during the war, and full of war matter, it is replete with interest.

Its first article on Privateers and Privateersmen, by George Fitzhugh of Virginia--as arrogant,
weak, and Sophomorical as Southern would-be 'literary' articles usually are--is written in
a vein of reasoning so oddly illogical as to almost induce suspicion as to the sanity of the
author. Let the reader take, for instance, the following extracts:

     'To show how untenable and absurd are the doctrines of the writers
     on the laws of war, we will cite the instance of pickets. According
     to their leading principle that in war 'only such acts of hostility
     are permissible as weaken the enemy and advance and promote the
     ends and purposes of the war,' pickets are the very men to be
     killed, for the death of one of them may effect a surprise and
     victory, and do more injury to the enemy than the killing of a
     thousand men in battle. According to their doctrine, it is
     peculiarly proper and merciful to shoot pickets; yet they propose
     to interpolate on the laws of war a provision that pickets shall
     not be shot. This provision is, in accordance with our philosophy,
     founded on Christian principles and the dictates of healthy
     humanity, for pickets are not active belligerents, and can oppose
     no force to the stealthy attacks made on them by unseen enemies. To
     kill a picket is like fighting an unarmed man, a child or a woman.
     It is eminently right according to the selfish and silly philosophy
     of writers on national law, but inhuman, and therefore wrong,
     according to our philosophy, which is founded on Christian
     injunctions and natural feelings.

     'Yet, as a matter of necessity, we would encourage the shooting of
     pickets. We must be conquered and subjugated unless we take advantage
     of all our peculiarities of habits, customs, localities, and
     institutions. We have to make a choice of evils; either shoot
     pickets, or by neglecting to do so, cut off one of our most
     available arms of defense. We must fight the 'devil with fire.' Our
     enemy professes no allegiance to the laws of morality nor to the
     laws of God. We must deal with them as Moses dealt with the people
     of Canaan, so long as they invade our territory. But we are not
     God's chosen people, not his instruments to punish Canaanites, and
     we will not follow them when they retreat to their barren Northern
     homes. There a just and avenging God is already punishing them for
     their crimes. Left to themselves, and our real enemies--those of
     the North-east--will perish, for they have little means of support
     at home, and have not learned to avail themselves of those means,
     trusting that a generous and confiding South would continue to feed
     and clothe them.

     'In old countries, where there are few trees, forests, or other
     hiding-places, and where the country people are unused to firearms,
     an invaded country gains little by shooting pickets; but in a new,
     rough country like ours, where pickets can be approached furtively,
     and where all the country people are first-rate marksmen, there is
     no better means of harassing and exhausting an invading army than
     by cutting off its outposts in detail.

     'It is the obvious interest of the North to make the persons of
     pickets sacred; and equally our obvious policy to shoot them down
     at every opportunity.'

In the midst of these slightly confused arguments on war, the writer suddenly introduces a
very out of place eulogy of 'De Bow's Review, Industrial Resources, etc.,' as a periodical
'which occupies a much wider range than any English periodical, and which, as an Encyclopedia,
would be more valuable than any other Review, were equal pains and labor bestowed upon its
articles.' We suspect this bit to be office-made--it has the heavy, clumsy ring of the great
cracked bell of De Bow. For instance:

     'I know, Mr. Editor, you intend, so soon as the war is over, to
     enlarge the Review, without increasing the subscription-price
     ... and then if Southern patronage ceases to be bestowed chiefly
     on the flimsy and immoral literature of the North, and Southern
     pens cease to prostitute themselves for pay by ministering to the
     vile and sensual literary appetites of the Yankees, then, we say,
     this Review will rank with the ablest for ability, and far above
     them for usefulness. But this result can be attained only when we
     cease to be Yankee-worshipers, and when the semi-traitorous
     imbeciles of the Virginia Convention and of Kentucky are remembered
     only to be detested and despised. Already hundreds of scientific
     and philosophic minds who have thrown off the debasing influence of
     Yankee authority have contributed learned and valuable articles to
     your pages.'

Unfortunately the character of De Bow as a deliberate and accomplished liar, and the exposure
of his infamous falsification of statistics, have somewhat sunk the character of his 'Review,
Industrial Resources, etc.,' out of Dixie, where, only, due honor is paid to those who are like him

        ----'for profound
  And solid lying much renowned.'

'Art. II.' or Article the Second, in this magazine, 'which only needs equal pains and labor'
[we might add paper, ink, and a Yankee Grammar and Dictionary] to be made equal to 'any other
Review'--treats of 'The Bastile--Tyranny, Past and Present.' All the doleful stories of prisoners
of earlier or later ages, in the Bastile, including much sentimental balderdash, are drawled
out by a very stupid and would-be effective writer, for the purpose of proving that the imprisonment
of political offenders and captives by the North is precisely on a par with that of 'Bastiling'
them, and that Abraham Lincoln is only a revival of the worst kings of France in an American
form. We of the North have, according to this writer, 'reached the goal of despotism at a single
leap. In a few months the government has achieved ETERNAL INFAMY.' We commend to the reader
the following superbly Southern conclusion:

     'With all these evils comes the inevitable Bastile. It is an
     inseparable part of the system. A philosophical Cuvier, from one
     act or condition of tyranny, will supply the rest of the organism.
     Wherever despotism exists, we look for the Bastile as naturally as
     we do for the character of a robber in an Italian story. Like the
     ponderous step of the statue of the commander in the Don Juan of
     Molière, its approach is audible above civil commotion, above the
     shrieks of frenzied orators, the howlings of a demoralized clergy,
     and the sound of battle. It brings with it the destruction of civil
     liberty, and darkens all the perspective.'

To us, to whom the approach of despotism with all its horrors is not quite so apparent as the
heavy footfall 'in the Don Juan of Molière,' this all sounds as if Dixie would very much like
to have the little privilege of keeping all the prisoners to itself. Nothing is said, by the
way, of Southern Bastiles--of tobacco-factories, in which mere boys are allowed to die of wounds
in utter solitude, to which officers come for the purpose of spitting upon and kicking the
'Yanks,' and where sentinels in wanton fiendishness were allowed to daily shoot through the
windows at those within. 'Our armies,' says Delony, 'are not like the miserable hirelings of
Lincoln--the scum of infamy and degradation--hunted up from the dens, sewers, and filthy prisons
of the North, with the low vandalism of foreign importations, picked up wherever they can be
found. Yet such are the creatures our brave soldiers have to meet. Our armies are composed
of men who have not volunteered for pay, nor for food or clothing!'

Since copying this paragraph, it was recalled to us--within a few hours--by meeting some half-dozen
of the 'scum of sewers' in question, in the persons of half-a-dozen young gentlemen, privates
in a Massachusetts regiment, several of them college graduates--all of them sons of wealthy
citizens and gentlemen. It would be interesting to ascertain, taking man for man, what proportion
of the Southern and Northern armies are respectively able to read, or are otherwise personally
familiar with the decencies and proprieties of civilized life. From this assumption of superiority
Mr. Delony argues victory, asks, 'What about the peace?' and inquires if the Federal Government
will offer to negotiate for it?

     'We can propose no terms, but we must demand them. We desire
     nothing that is not right and just, and we will submit to nothing
     that is wrong. But no peace will be acceptable to the people that
     permits the Lincoln Government to hold its Abolition orgies and
     fulminate its vile edicts upon slave territory. Much valuable
     property of our citizens has been destroyed, or stolen and carried
     off by the invaders; this should be accounted for, and paid. The
     Yankees were shrewd enough to cheat us out of the navy, but we must
     have half of the war-vessels and naval armament in possession of
     the North at the commencement of this war. We should enter into no
     commercial alliances or complications with them, but assume the
     entire control of our commercial policy and regulations with them,
     to be modified at our own discretion and pleasure. They have closed
     against us all navigation and trade on the Mississippi, Missouri,
     and other rivers; it is our right and duty hereafter so to regulate
     the navigation of these streams as may best conform to our own
     interests. It can not be expected that we should permit the free
     navigation of the Lower Mississippi to the West after they have
     closed it against us above, without the most stringent regulations.
     There is no palliation in the pretense that the blockade above was
     a war measure; they can not so claim it unless we had been
     acknowledged as belligerents, and hence they have forfeited all
     right to free navigation as a peace measure. If, then, permission
     be given to the Free States of the West to navigate the Lower
     Mississippi, it should be under such restrictions as to afford a
     commensurate revenue to the confederacy, and the strictest rules
     regulating the ingress and egress of passengers, officers, and
     hands. The West is learning us how to do without her, and we thank
     her for it; we shall have but little need of her produce, as we
     shall soon have a plentiful supply among our own people. An
     absolute separation from all the North, with the sole and
     independent control of all regulations with its people, are our
     best and safest terms of peace.'

What is further hoped for is shown in remarks on the

EXTENT OF THE CONFEDERACY.

     'We have conquered an outlet to the Pacific which must be
     maintained, though we can desire no dominion on the Pacific coast,
     but such as may be sufficient to secure the terminus of our great
     Pacific railroad through Texas and Arizona. Toward the north and
     east, the Maryland and Pennsylvania line, including Delaware, is
     our true landmark. Kansas, on the other side, must be conquered and
     confiscated to pay for the negroes stolen from us, abolitionism
     expelled from its borders, and transformed into a Slave State of
     the confederacy. Perhaps, after we have done with Lincoln, this
     arrangement may be very acceptable to a majority in Kansas, without
     force. We will have no desire to disturb Mexico so long as she
     conducts herself peaceably toward us, and, as a neighbor, maintains
     good faith in her dealings with us. Central America must remain as
     a future consideration; and, instead of the acquisition of Cuba,
     she has become our friendly ally, identified with us in interests
     and institutions, and, so long as she continues to hold slaves,
     connected with us by the closest ties.'

But the strong point of the article consists in a fierce onslaught on foreigners, all of whom,
save those now resident in the South, are to be excluded from citizenship and office. 'With
the exception of these, and after that time, no more votes should be allowed, and no' more
offices be held, except by native-born citizens of the confederacy.'

     'The naturalization law of the old Government has proved of little
     benefit to the Southern States. Whilst our Southern adopted
     citizens have proven themselves reliable, faithful, and true to
     our institutions of the South, those of the North, who outnumber
     them twenty to one, have universally arrayed themselves foremost
     and in front of Lincoln's hordes in the work of rapine, murder, and
     destruction against the South. Hereafter then, we can make no
     distinction between the Yankee and the foreigner, and both must
     necessarily be debarred of the privilege of citizenship in this
     confederacy.'

Delony, it seems, has 'viewed this question in all its bearings,' 'foremost and in front' of
course included, and deems its adoption eminently essential to the future stability and welfare
of the confederacy. The abolition of all impost duties and a system of direct taxation, are
of course warmly advocated--meaning thereby the ruin of Northern manufactures by smuggling
European goods over our border. In short, he sets forth plainly what is as yet far from being
felt or generally understood, that the independence of the Southern confederacy must inevitably
bring with it the total ruin of the North, and the entire exclusion from its citizenship and
offices of all persons other than native-born Southerners.

'Article V.' is one of those intensely snobbish, sickening, self-conscious essays on 'Gentility,'
which none but a Southerner is capable of writing. The innate vulgarity of its author, 'J.
T. Wiswall, of Alabama,' is shown in such expressions as 'a pretty Romeo of seventeen, that
looks as charming as sweet sixteen, gallused up in tight unmentionables,' and in artless confessions
that he--J. T. Wiswall--belongs to a class above the snob, but still to one 'whose conversation
stalks as on stilts,' and which is foppish, effeminate, and ostentatious. The conclusion is,
of course, the worship of 'aristocracy,' a worship of which, as J.T. Wiswall infers from his
own shallow reading and flimsy experience, exists 'in every heart.' The wants of the rich,
their 'toys and gauds,' 'were made to relieve the sufferings of the poor,' and the 'ceaseless
abuse of aristocracy is therefore absurd.' Without the great truths, based on these relations
of rich and poor, J. T. W., the apostle of 'Gentility,' thinks that 'society is a murderous
anarchy; without these, revolution follows revolution, and barbarism closes the hideous drama
of national existence. On these alone hang all the law and prophets.'

The remaining articles of 'De Bow's Review, Industrial Resources, etc.,' are devoted to Free
Trade, the Progress of the War, and the Coal-Fields of Arkansas, none of them, with the exception
of the latter, presenting aught like an approach to a useful truth. The magazine is, however,
as a whole both curious and characteristic. It shows, as in a mirror, the enormous ambition,
the uneasy vanity, the varnished vulgarity of the Southerner, his claims to scrupulous honor,
outflanked and contradicted at every turn by an innate tendency to exaggerate and misrepresent,
and his imperfect knowledge employed as a basis for the most weighty conclusions. And it is
such writers and thinkers who accurately set forth the ideas and principles on which the great
experiment of the Southern aristocratic confederacy is to be based--in case of its success.
A tremendous Ism, fringed with bayonets! There is strength in bayonets, but what stability
is there in the Ism which supports them?

EAST AND WEST.

  In the far East the imperial rule
    Is aided by the British rod;
  While in the West the rebel school
    Receives full many a friendly nod.
  Can no new Mithra ever be
    To slay this Bull of tyranny?

HOW HIRAM MEEKER FLOURISHED AT BURNSVILLE.

Hiram entered on his new duties--I was about to say with zeal and activity; such are not the
words I would employ to describe his conduct or character, but rather earnestness and fidelity.
Neither do these terms precisely convey my meaning, but none better occur to me. He was quiet
and unobtrusive, at the same time alert and ready. Absolutely negative in his manner, he did
not leave a salient point for Mr. Burns to lay hold of. His first object was to learn exactly
the situation of his employer's affairs, and that without manifesting the least curiosity on
the subject.

Of course, such an event as the introduction of a young man into Mr. Burns's private office
was soon known all over town. The appearance of the new-comer was scrutinized, and every word
and gesture watched. This Hiram knew very well, and bore himself accordingly. Wherever he went,
whether on some business to Slab City with Mr. Burns's horse and wagon, or into the store,
or about the village, he carried with him the careful, considerate air of one who is charged
with affairs of the greatest importance.

Do not think Hiram was so foolish as to assume a consequential air--not he. His manner appeared
quite involuntary; produced necessarily by the grave matters he had in charge. He was by no
means reserved. He was always ready to enter into conversation and to answer questions, provided
the questions did not refer to his employer's business. Thus he soon gained the reputation
in Burnsville which he had in Hampton, of being a very agreeable young man. At first his presence
rather puzzled the good people, and some would inquire of Hiram what he was 'hired for;' his
answer was ready and explicit: 'To act as confidential clerk for Mr. Burns.' This would be
pronounced in a tone so decided, that while it only stimulated the curiosity of the inquirer,
it checked further questioning.

In this way, without appearing conceited, arrogant, or consequential, our hero managed to impress
every body with the importance and responsibility of his position. Wherever he appeared, folks
would say: 'There goes Meeker.' As Mr. Burns's representative, he was noticed more than Mr.
Burns himself. Hiram knew very well how to manage all this, and he did so to perfection.

It would have done you good to see Hiram on Sunday, elaborately dressed, going to church with
the Widow Hawkins on his arm, followed by the two Miss Hawkins. Walking up the aisle, his countenance
composed and serious, he would open the pew-door and wait reverently for Mrs. H. and the young
ladies, to pass in. They, 'the young ladies,' would flutter along and enter the pew with a
pleased, satisfied air--they were already in love with Hiram--and after the usual turnings
and twistings and adjustments, would take their seats, the one next our hero giving him a little
bit of a smile or a brief whisper ere she settled down into the ordinary church decorum.

Hiram all the while would not move a muscle. He never cast his eyes around the congregation--he
never looked any where except at the clergyman, to whom he paid profound attention. When the
services were over, he escorted Mrs. Hawkins back to her house, while the young ladies sometimes
stopped to say a few words to their companions.

In a fortnight Hiram had taken a class in the Sunday-school, of which Mr. Burns was superintendent,
and on the next communion Sabbath he joined the church by letter.

For some time Hiram confined himself in the office to following implicitly the instructions
of Mr. Burns, without venturing to ask any questions or make any suggestions. He carried out
these instructions to the letter. He wrote a beautiful hand. He was, as the reader knows, an
admirable accountant. For several days Mr. Burns seemed disposed to ascertain his capabilities
by putting a variety of matters into his hands. He gave him a contract to copy, and then asked
for an abstract of it. He submitted several long accounts to him for arrangement. He sent him
to the mill or factory, sometimes to deliver a message simply, sometimes to look after a matter
of consequence. Mr. Burns found Hiram on all these occasions to be intelligent, accurate, and
prompt. He invariably manifested this single characteristic, to wit, undivided attention to
the matter in hand.

'He is an invaluable fellow, I declare,' said Mr. Burns to himself; 'I wish I could feel differently
toward him. Strange how a first prejudice will stick to one!'

'I think I am gaining ground,' soliloquized Hiram. 'Let him try me--the more the better. I
shall do him good in spite of himself.'

       *       *       *       *       *

During this period, which we may term Hiram's novitiate, he had been careful, without appearing
to avoid her, not to come in contact with Sarah Burns. Mr. Burns was a very hospitable man,
but he had omitted to ask Hiram to visit him. The latter was not slow to perceive and appreciate
the neglect. He did not mind it much, though. He had gained his position, and felt he could
take care of himself.

Meantime Sarah frequently inquired of her father how he liked his new clerk. At first, as we
have stated, she felt jealous that any one should share his business confidences with her,
but soon she resigned herself to this, and learning who was to enter her father's service,
she hoped that she would find an agreeable acquaintance in the young man with whom--if the
truth be told--she was really much pleased when they met at Mrs. Crofts'. We have already described
the wrath of young Meeker at receiving, as he supposed, the cut direct from Sarah Burns the
first day he visited the place. Sarah, entirely unconscious of having given offense, began
to wonder how it happened that she never encountered him on any occasion. They attended the
same church, each had a class in the Sunday-school, they met in the lecture-room, but never
where an opportunity was afforded for them to speak. At last, one Sunday, after he had finished
with his class, Hiram started to go to the library to procure some books for his pupils, and
perceived, when it was too late, that Miss Burns herself was making choice of some. Another
moment, and Hiram was close at her side, but intent on his selections.

'He is diffident,' said Sarah to herself, 'and thinks I do not recognize him because I did
not when we met so unexpectedly. It is proper I should speak to him.'

'How do you do, Mr. Meeker?' she said.

Hiram looked up with well-feigned surprise.

'Very well, I thank you,' he replied, with polite formality; 'I hope you are quite well;' and
barely waiting for her bow of assent, he busied himself with the books again.

'How he has altered! What can be the matter with him?' thought Sarah as she turned to resume
her place.

'Pretty well for encounter Number two,' muttered Hiram, as he walked back to his class. 'Wait
a little, young lady, and we will see who comes off second best.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Louisa and Charlotte Hawkins were both very pretty girls. Their mother, now several years a
widow, was an estimable lady, who had by no means lost her good looks. Possessing excellent
health, she made a very youthful appearance, and seemed more like an elder sister than the
mother of her daughters. Her husband left her a moderate income, which an unforeseen occurrence
had the last season diminished. It was this circumstance which induced her to listen to Hiram's
application to become a member of her family. His recommendations were so ample, what Mr. Burns
said about him was so satisfactory, and the price which Hiram volunteered to pay for his accommodations
so generous, that Mrs. Hawkins found it impossible to refuse him. I will not say that Hiram's
manner and address did not serve to turn the scale. The widow was gratified with the extraordinary
deference paid to her, with which was mingled a species of admiration, while the young ladies,
who were of course brought into the consultation, were somehow severally impressed with the
idea that Hiram must be perfectly charming in a private tête-à-tête with mamma and sister out
of the room.

Hiram's plan with the ladies was literally to divide and conquer. Mrs. Hawkins had too much
good sense to take matters seriously, but she could not help being flattered by the assiduous
and persevering attentions of so young and handsome a fellow. In fact, she looked five years
younger herself, after Hiram came to her house. These attentions, however, were not out of
the common course. They were apparently just what it was eminently proper and polite to render;
but we have already explained that Hiram had a delicate and most insinuating way of giving
force and meaning to them.

Ah! well, after all, we would not intimate that the widow Hawkins, now forty years of age,
ever entertained any other thought toward Hiram than that he would make a most delightful son-in-law,
or if she did experience feelings which people take for granted belong only to the young, (people
are much mistaken,) it is not for me to betray or expose them.

But the young ladies, Miss Louisa and Miss Charlotte--here was a more difficult task, to render
equal justice to each. Candidly, however, I think Hiram accomplished it. Louisa was already
one-and-twenty, but she had glossy dark hair which she wore in curls down her neck, and served
to give her a very youthful appearance. Charlotte, who was nearly two years younger than her
sister, was always taken by strangers to be the eldest. She was a blonde, and wore her light
brown hair plain over her face. Both these young ladies soon had their private impression that
there were peculiar confidences between them and Hiram. It was the old story again. Our hero
had lost none of his powers of fascination in removing from Hampton to Burnsville.

You see, reader, how pleasantly Hiram was quartered. I do not suppose that a thought of Mary
Jessup ever entered his brain (to say nothing of his heart, if he had any) after he came to
Mrs. Hawkins's. He attended to his business devotedly, and never in a single instance sacrificed
it to his pleasure, his comfort, or his inclinations. When it was finished, he found solace
and enjoyment in the society of these ladies, much as he would enjoy his dinner, though in
a higher degree, and with a keener zest.

After the meeting with Miss Burns at the Sunday-school, Hiram no longer avoided her. Still,
he confined himself to courteous salutations, in which he appeared perfectly at his ease, and
unrestrained, without getting into conversation or alluding to a previous acquaintance. But
pray, understand, if Sarah Burns had had the slightest idea that Hiram's course was premeditated,
she would have cut his acquaintance instanter, for she was a girl of spirit, with a vein of
her father's impetuosity of character. As it was, she imagined every reason for Hiram's reserve
but the right one, and so was anxious he should do away with it. To this end she always returned
his greeting in a manner calculated to give him confidence if he were diffident, and courage
if he were timid. It seemed to little purpose. 'What can be the matter with the fellow?' she
said to herself. She was piqued; she was puzzled; she felt annoyed.

Young ladies must excuse me for letting the public into some of their secrets, but as a faithful
historian, I am forced to record precisely how Sarah Burns felt, as well as just what she did
during the early part of her acquaintance with my hero--an acquaintance which led, as the reader
may remember, to an engagement of marriage.

Meantime, Hiram began to gain in Mr. Burns's regard. He soon discovered how very capable his
new clerk was. He certainly had never had any such person in his employment before. He found
himself by degrees leaving many things for Hiram to attend to which he supposed no one but
himself was capable of transacting. In such cases he was astonished with what facility Hiram
performed the work; how apt and ready he was. What a comfort for a man with as much on his
hands as Mr. Burns, to have such a person near him!

       *       *       *       *       *

Yet, somehow, with all his readiness, and capability, and actual value to his employer, he
was not a comfort to him. Despite all, Hiram's presence cast a shadow across the soul of Mr.
Burns. While he approved of every thing he did, while he appreciated his extraordinary business
abilities, while he could not but feel satisfied and pleased with his competency, his assiduity,
and his untiring devotion, the quick, sensitive nature of this truthful, genuine man felt magnetically
the malign force working in the brain of the subtle and calculating schemer.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was remarked after a while about the village, that Hiram never visited. It was soon understood
though, what a moral, pious youth he was. The Rev. Mr. Baker said he never conversed with a
young person whose religious experience was so interesting, and who manifested such implicit
trust in Providence.

Hiram was quick-witted enough to perceive that his situation with Mr. Burns was enough of itself
to give him a prominent position in the village. The girls were crazy to be introduced to him,
and one young lady who had hitherto held out against it, took a class in Sunday-school so as
to make young Meeker's acquaintance at the meetings of the teachers. I have said Hiram never
visited; I will tell you why. So long as he made no visits, it would not appear singular that
he did not call at Mr. Burns's, otherwise his omission to do so would certainly attract attention.
True, Hiram did not, perhaps, require an invitation to justify his going to see Miss Burns,
but he resolved he would not go without one. He was careful, however, that not a soul should
know he felt slighted, and this led him to spend his time at home, and devote himself to the
widow Hawkins and her daughters. It is true he rapidly made the acquaintance of the whole church.
Some very pleasant seasons he enjoyed with the young ladies at the various gatherings connected
with it. He was rallied on his being so much of a recluse. Arch hints were conveyed that doubtless
his home was specially agreeable. Was it Louisa or Charlotte? Both these young ladies would
simper and look conscious when they were attacked on the subject; for both candidly believed
they were liable to the innuendoes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus matters went on during the first six months of Hiram's career at Burnsville. In that time
he managed to make himself fully acquainted with Mr. Burns's affairs. In fact, he knew more
about them with reference to value and availability than did Mr. Burns himself. For with the
latter life possessed higher objects than the mere acquisition of property; while with Hiram
it was the great earthly good, and not a thought or a fancy entered his brain which did not
have reference to it. We can see how very useful such a person would be to Mr. Burns. Indeed,
after a while he found himself listening to occasional suggestions which Hiram modestly put
forth about this or that matter.

The liberal terms allowed to every one in his service was a matter of great annoyance to the
confidential clerk. But here he touched a vital principle in Mr. Burns's course of action,
which was, to regard all who served him as entitled to share according to their usefulness
in the benefits of the business or enterprise in which they were engaged. The result was, that
their wages or salaries were on a generous scale. A further result appeared in the pleasing
aspect of the village, betokening a more diffused prosperity than is ordinarily observed.

Now, Hiram had early mastered the doctrine of making the many contribute to the success and
fortunes of the few. It had already become one of his cardinal ideas. The reader will recollect
that about the first thing which impressed our hero on coming to Burnsville, was the fact that
Mr. Burns was not as rich as he ought to be considering the facilities he had to make money.
Here was a point beyond Hiram Meeker's comprehension. Turn it whichever way he would, he failed
to understand Mr. Burns in this. You see, Hiram could have no more idea of his employer's large
and humanizing views than a blind man of colors. He could not attribute it to lack of sagacity,
for he saw such abundant proofs as compelled his admiration and respect. It did not appear
to grow out of any strict religious theories, for Mr. Burns held mere professions in such low
esteem that he never spoke of an act or of a course as dictated or regulated by a sense of
duty, so called. Since his wife died, he had tried to obey her dying injunction, 'to live right,'
which he soon discovered had reference to the state of his heart, and thus to his motives,
while his actions were such as would naturally flow from such a condition of the 'inner man.'
Hiram, on the other hand, practiced on the philosophical principle of 'means to ends.' He had
two ends in view, namely: To be SUCCESSFUL here, and to be SUCCESSFUL hereafter. He was determined
to omit nothing which could further these ends. But since these (as we have before stated)
had no reference to or connection with any thing except self, the reader will readily see how
Hiram failed to understand Mr. Burns.

On other points there was no difficulty. And on his part, Mr. Burns could not help being struck
with the clear, rapid, comprehensive business mind of the young man. Despite his prejudices,
Hiram advanced daily in his confidence.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was one matter, and that an important one, in Mr. Burns's affairs which was going wrong.
I refer to the paper-mill. Mr. Burns had undertaken the enterprise in connection with an excellent
man, an old friend and an extensive paper-dealer, residing in New-York. Each furnished half
the capital for the erection of the mill and for the machinery, and they were, therefore, joint
owners of the property. The season after it went into operation, his friend failed and felt
himself obliged, without having time to consult Mr. Burns, to convey his portion of the mill
to a Mr. Joslin--Mr. Elihu Joslin, one of the largest paper-merchants in the city, to whom
he owed a heavy confidential debt. This Joslin was a very rich man and also very unscrupulous--such
was his reputation with the trade. Not a few thought he was the means of forcing his brother-merchant
into bankruptcy, having first lent him considerable sums of money on a pledge that it should
be considered confidential in any event. In this way Elihu Joslin came to be owner of one half
the paper-mill with Joel Burns. At the first interview every thing passed pleasantly between
the two. Joslin was planning how to get the other in his power, and so finally possess the
whole of the property. It was arranged, as was very proper, that Mr. Joslin should act as merchant
for the mill, as his predecessor had done. He was to purchase and forward rags of which to
manufacture paper, and should receive on consignment all paper produced at the mill. He sounded
Mr. Burns on his own wants for money, and was disappointed to find him in no need whatever.
On the rendering of the first accounts, Mr. Burns was much chagrined at the state of things
which they discovered. True, every thing was correct on paper. Rags were entered at the market
price; consignments when sold were properly credited. But there were charges for all sorts
of commissions, for accepting, and paying, and accepting again, because paper remained unsold,
and for a variety of things hitherto unheard of in ordinary dealings, and which the previous
correspondent of Mr. Burns had never made, which were positively startling. Mr. Burns remonstrated
by letter. It did not do the least good. He was dealing with a bold, daring, unscrupulous man,
who, in the language of his acquaintances, always practiced the grab-game.

Mr. Burns finally made the best settlement of the account in his power, determining, before
another six months should pass, that he would make a change of some sort. Unfortunately, he
was at that time rather short of money, for he was expending considerable sums in other enterprises,
and supposed the paper-mill could not fail of taking care of itself. So he continued to send
forward to Mr. Joslin the consignments of paper, and to draw on him as usual. The next rendering
of accounts showed affairs in a sad plight. Paper was very dull, so Joslin wrote. The lots
sent forward were not as good as usual, (which was a falsehood,) so that much that had been
sold was returned to him, (another lie,) and he had been forced to sell the most of it at auction
to cover his advances, and the last cargo of rags still remained unpaid.

Mr. Burns was thunderstruck. He saw at once that he had fallen into the hands of a knave; but
what was to be done? The idea of going to New-York to obtain satisfaction and thus encounter
the scoundrel on his own ground was not pleasant; but what else could be done? He decided,
after some reflection, as he could not just then leave the place, to send the superintendent
of the mill to Mr. Joslin for the purpose of investigating the account, and all the circumstances
connected with the business. He prepared a strong letter to Joslin, in which he spoke with
great severity of the course pursued by that individual.

At this juncture Hiram was taken into the consultation. He begged Mr. Burns to write no letter,
but to send any message he chose. 'The man will accomplish nothing,' he rather curtly added,
'still, it is well enough to send him.' Mr. Burns thought Hiram's suggestion a prudent one,
so the head man of the paper-mill was dispatched with his instructions. He returned in three
days very well satisfied with his journey. He had been received by Mr. Elihu Joslin with the
utmost politeness. He expressed entire willingness to go over the account and correct any mistakes
in it. Indeed, he had succeeded in convincing Mr. Joslin of one error of thirty-one dollars
and twenty-six cents, which the latter at once made right. As to the main points at issue,
however, Mr. Joslin could not alter the amount. There were the advances, here the sales, there
the charges, here the credits. As to the commissions for buying, for selling, and guaranteeing,
and for accepting, why, let him consult the very first houses in the city, the very first.
He would leave it to Mr. Burns to select the house, and abide by its decision.

The man came back to Burnsville completely bamboozled. Hiram was present in Mr. Burns's office
when this report was made. Mr. Burns received it in silence. He saw at once how his messenger
had been over-reached.

When the latter left the office he turned toward Hiram and said:

'This is an unfortunate business.'

'I want to ask an especial favor of you,' said Hiram.

'What is it?'

'I want you to permit me to go to New-York and try what I can do.'

'Have you any plan?'

'I can not say I have. It would depend on circumstances.'

'Have you confidence in achieving something?'

'I have sufficient to induce me to wish to make the attempt.'

'Well, you shall go.'

'I would like to start to-morrow.'

'Very well; come to my house after tea and we will look over the papers.'

'I am much obliged to you, sir.'

Mr. Burns started to leave the office; he opened the door and was half out; then he turned.

'By the way, Meeker, come and take tea with me; we will then be ready to go at once into the
accounts.'

'Thank you, sir.'

The door closed and Hiram was left alone. What a moment of triumph, as he regarded it!

'Invited to the house at last! I knew I should fetch it. Let us see ... very good.... Now,
young lady....'

The murmurings finally became inaudible as Hiram rose and walked up and down the room, stopping
occasionally, and then starting rapidly on.

Mr. Burns proceeded homeward, quite unconscious of the excitement he had raised in Hiram's
breast. Always considerate and just, it occurred to him since he had requested the young man
to come to his house on business, thus breaking over his usual rule, that he ought to ask him
to tea, and accordingly he did so. He announced the fact to Sarah as he entered the house.
He was too much preöccupied to observe a slight flush rise to her cheeks as he spoke. She,
however, only replied:

'Any thing unusual, father?'

'Yes; Stevens has returned from New-York, accomplishing nothing. I am going to send Meeker.
We are to look over matters this evening.'

'Indeed, Do you think he can do better than Stevens?'

'Yes, I think so. Besides, he wants to go. He volunteered to go.'

'Is it possible?'

'Why not, my child?'

'I am sure I don't know; it seems strange.'

'Perhaps it does; but I confess I have a great deal of confidence that he will bring something
about.'

That evening the appearance of the table was slightly changed--not enough to attract Mr. Burns's
attention, but there was a greater display of silver than usual, and a nicer regard to arrangement.
The same might be said of Sarah herself. The casual observer would not notice it, one of her
own sex would.

One minute past the appointed time master Hiram arrived, direct from the office, where he had
been so immersed in accounts, head and hands so full of business, as almost to forget the tea-hour.

Yes, he came direct from the office. But previously he had stepped to his room, and without
'dressing up,' or apparently disturbing the usual arrangement of his wardrobe, managed to make
himself especially presentable. In short, he had done just what Sarah Burns had done.

I wish you could have witnessed the meeting between them. You would have thought Hiram in the
habit of going all his life to the house, instead of entering it for the first time. No forwardness,
though, no assumption, yet entire freedom from awkwardness or embarrassment.

Sarah, on her part, received him with a pleasant lady-like greeting, quite unconscious, as
we have already intimated, of having given Hiram any cause of offense.

Various topics were discussed: the condition of the Sunday-school, the health of the clergyman,
the high water at Slab City, the lecture of the celebrated Charles Benjamin Bruce, the prospects
of the Lyceum, the new town-hall.

Mr. Burns said but little. It was very unusual to see him engrossed with any business matter
to the exclusion of social enjoyments. Was he thinking of business altogether? Occasionally
and unconsciously his eye would glance from his daughter to Hiram and then back again. Little
did he know, little could he guess what was passing in that crafty, scheming brain--else....

Mr. Burns was called out for a few moments just as tea was concluded.

'So,' exclaimed Sarah suddenly, 'you are going to New-York?'

'How do you know that?' returned Hiram.

'How do I know it? Are you not aware that I know every thing going on? I was very jealous of
you at first.'

'Of me?'

'Yes, for depriving me of my situation.'

'You speak in riddles.'

'Did you not know I was father's 'confidential clerk' before you cut me out?'

'Indeed I did not. If I had, I should never have presumed to offer my services.'

'I suppose it was well you did. Some time I will tell you what I used to do. But father talks
to me about every thing just as ever. Oh! I hope you can do something with that Mr. Joslin.
Do you think you can?'

'I hope so; I shall try, and--(he hesitated, looked down, and blushed--consummate actor that
he was)--'and all the harder now that I find you take such an interest in it.'

'Oh! thank you,' replied Sarah.

[There was the slightest perceptible hauteur in her tone, and the slightest perceptible drawing
in from her previous pleasant, free manner--only the slightest.]

'For,' continued Hiram, lifting his eyes and looking at her boldly, as if not noticing the
remark, 'if you take so much interest in my mission, you will be forced to feel some sort of
interest in me.'

'If you succeed, why, I will say yes,' replied Sarah, with entire good humor. 'If you do not--'

'I accept the alternative,' interrupted Hiram, 'but do not forget your pledge.'

Here Mr. Burns came in, and the two proceeded at once to business. He did not see Sarah again.

It was at a late hour that Hiram left the house. With Mr. Burns's aid he had mastered the whole
subject, accounts and all. He was happy. Once as he walked along he turned and cast his eyes
up at the window. I do not like to think of the look which flitted across his face. He nodded
significantly, and went on his way.

Louisa Hawkins opened the door for him the moment he put his foot on the step.

'Where have you been?' she whispered, 'I was so frightened. I persuaded them to go to bed.
Did you think I would be waiting for you?'

'I was sure of it, Lily.'

'You were, weren't you?'

They went in and sat half an hour in the parlor together. But Hiram gave her no inkling of
where he passed the evening.

The next day our hero started for New-York. Of his adventures there, and the result of his
interview with Elihu Joslin, we will speak in another chapter.

KENTUCKY.

  The Dark and Bloody Ground of yore,
  Kentucky, thou art that once more.
  But where is he who gave the name--
  The Indian? Lost like meteor's flame!
  Gone, as the bandits soon shall be,
  Who brought the name again to thee!

LITERARY NOTICES

     LIFE AND LETTERS OF WASHINGTON IRVING. By Pierre Irving. Vol. II.
     New-York: G. P. Putnam. Boston: A. K. Loring. 1862.

We have perused this second volume of 'Irving's Life and Letters' with even greater relish
than the first, and return sincere thanks to its editor for the zeal and skill shown in his
work. Such compilations, when not very well done, are proverbially dull; it is therefore the
highest compliment which we can pay to say that the work thus far is extremely interesting.
We have in it, as in the brilliant memoir of some great man of the world, constantly recurring
glimpses of world-wide celebrities, pictures of travel, bits of gossip of people in whom every
body is interested, the whole interwoven with the kindliest and most genial traits of character.
If Irving's works are essential to every library, it may be said with equal truth that the
'Life and Letters' are quite as inseparable from the works themselves.

     BAYARD TAYLOR'S WORKS. NORTHERN TRAVEL. New-York: G. P. Putnam.
     Boston: A. K. Loring.

Within a few years the tide of English and of American travel has flown far more than of old
over Scandinavia, a land so little known as to bear a prestige of strange mystery to many.
Books of travel describing it are comparatively rare; it has not, like Germany or England,
been 'done to death,' and the consequence is, that a good book describing it, like this of
Taylor's, has a peculiar charm of freshness and of novelty. In it, as in every volume of his
travels, Bayard Taylor gives us the impression that the country in question is his specialty
and favorite, the result being a thoroughly genial account of all he saw. Readers not familiar
with this series may be pleased to know that as regards typography, illustration, and binding,
it is in all respects elegant, though furnished at an extremely moderate price.

     EDWIN BROTHERTOFT. By Theodore Winthrop. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.
     1862.

To a certain extent novels are like dishes; while there is no dispute as to the surpassing
excellence of a few, the majority are prized differently, according to individual tastes. Public
opinion has unanimously rated the Winthrop novels highly, some readers preferring 'Cecil Dreeme,'
while to judge by the press, it would seem that 'Edwin Brothertoft' best pleases the majority.
It is certainly a book of marked character, and full of good local historical color. The author
had one great merit--he studied from life and truth, and did not rehash what he had read in
other novels, as do the majority of story-tellers at the present day, when a romance which
is not crammed with palpable apings of 'Jane Eyre' and 'Adam Bede' is becoming a rarity. In
'Edwin Brothertoft' we have a single incident--as in 'John Brent'--the rescue of a captive
damsel by a dashing 'raid,' as the nucleus, around which are deftly woven in many incidents,
characters, and scenes, all well set forth in the vigorous style of a young writer who was
deeply interested in his own work. That he is sometimes rather weakly grotesque, as in his
sporting with the negro dialect, which in the person of a servant he affects to discard and
yet resumes, is a trifle. That he shows throughout the noblest sympathies and instincts of
a gentleman, a philanthropist, and a cosmopolite is, however, something which can not be too
highly praised, since it is these indications which lend a grace and a glory to all that Winthrop
wrote. Noblesse oblige seems to have been the great consciousness of his nature, and he therefore
presented in his life and writings that high type of a gentleman by birth and culture, who
without lowering himself one whit, was a reformer, a progressive, yes, a 'radical' in all things
where he conceived that the root to be extracted was a great truth.

In many things 'Edwin Brothertoft' is most appropriate to these our times, since its scenes
are laid in that Revolutionary War for the cause of freedom, of which this of the present day
is, in fact, a repetition. We feel in its every page the anxiety and interest of war, an American
war for the right, sweeping along through trials and sorrows. To characterize it in few words,
we may say that in it the author reminds us of Cooper, but displays more genius and life than
Cooper ever did.

     OUT OF HIS HEAD. By T. B. Aldrich. New-York. Carleton.

It is said that the 'grotesque' romance is going out of fashion; if this be so, the beautiful
and quaint collection of interwoven fancies before us proves that in literature as in horticulture,
the best blooms of certain species are of the latest. Strange, indeed, is the conception of
this work--the fancied biography of one literally 'out of his head,' who imagines himself surrounded
by a world of people who act very singularly. Madmen are never ordinary; therefore the writer
has not, while setting forth the most extraordinary fancies, once transgressed the limits of
the probable. This was a bold stroke of genius in the very inception, and it is developed with
a subtle tact which can hardly fail to claim the cordial admiration of the most carping critic.
It is true that in using the strange aberrations of a lunatic as material for romance, Aldrich
has provoked comparison with some of the world's greatest writers; and it is to his credit
that he has met them evenly, and that too without in any particular incurring the charge of
plagiarism. But had the thema of the work been less ingenious or striking, its defects would
have been unnoticed among the beautiful pictures, the unconscious breathings of poetry, and
the sweet caprices which twine around the strange plot, as the tendrils and leaves of the vine
cover over, yet indicate by their course the fantastic twinings of the parent vine. It is needless
to say, that we commend this most agreeable work to our readers. We are glad to see that 'Père
Antoine's Date Palm' which has attained so great a popularity, and several other fascinating
tales by Aldrich, are incorporated into the present volume as the 'library' of the hero.

     LES MISERABLES. III. Marius. By Victor Hugo. New-York: Carleton.

'Sure an' didn't I tell ye I was a poor scholar,' said the young Irish sham-student-beggar
to the gentleman who refused him alms because he could not read. In the same strain, as it
seems to us, Victor Hugo might reply to the wearied readers of these tales: 'Why, do they not
call themselves miserable?' Miserable indeed is the 'Marius' installment now before us--a mere
sensation plot, brilliantly patched here and there with the purpureus pannus, or purple rag
of a bit of imperial or later history, 'coached' up for display, but falling lamentably into
what under any other name would be called a gross imitation of Eugène Sue. The point of the
present volume, to which its scenes tend, is, of course, a robber's den--a decoyed victim--the
police in waiting, and a tremendous leap from a window--the whole suggesting Mr. Bourcicault's
moral sensational drama, or rather its French originals, to an amusing extent. Still the genius
of the author, always erratic, of course, is shown in more than one chapter. The trials and
sufferings of 'Marius,' and his noble independence of character, as well as the peculiar and
widely differing traits of his friends the students are set forth with great spirit, and with
the intention of a good purpose. Victor Hugo is in all his works unequal unless we except 'Hans
of Iceland,' which is completely trashy throughout; but he was never more so than in 'The Miserables.'
We have spoken of this third part as though its first title were an illustration of the nomen
et omen so much believed in of old. We may add that like the Mois of Alexandre Dumas, it has
simply an s too much,

     THE FLY-ING DUTCHMAN. By John Q. Saxe. Illustrated. New-York:
     Carleton. 1862.

An amusing little series of pictures, drawn and written, setting forth the accidents which
befell a 'Dutchman' in catching a fly.

     THE POEMS OF ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH. With a Memoir. By Charles Eliot
     Norton. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1862. A vigorous naturalism, such as is becoming
half the religion and all the art of the scholars and thinkers of the
present day, inspires every page. Truthful yet picturesque, he is more
than pleasant to read, he is good to think, and most relishing to
feel with. Had he been a meaner mind, he would have been a mere Adam
Bede-ish pre-Raffaelite in word-painting--'the Bothie of
Taber-na-vuolich,' the first poem in this volume is often photographic
in its rural views, as well as in its characters. As it is, literal
nature is to him material for fresh brave thought. Through all his
poems, owing to this simple vigorous truth, and an innate sense of
refinement, he rises head and shoulders above the 'sweet-pretty' Miss
Nancy Coventry Patmores or spasmodic Alexander Smiths or other
cotemporary English stuff of later poetry.

England has of late years deluged and wearied us so much with thousand times told tales of
herself and her social life, and her writers have run so exceedingly in ruts, that there are
few really thinking men in America who have not begun to tire woefully of her endless novels
and worn-out poetry. We could write against the whole 'connu, connu,' and at the end a 'deliver
us'--from evil it might be, certainly from no great temptation. Let the world believe it--it
will some day--English thought is at present exhausted, stagnant, and imitative. It is cursed
with mannerism, even as the Chinese are cursed, and every honest man of mind knows it. In such
a state of national art it is cheerful to open a volume like these poems, in which one hears,
as it were, the first lark-notes of an early dawn and sees from afar a few gleams of morning
red. It is not the full light nor the great poetry which reforms and awakes nations, but it
is the forerunner in many things of such, and will be read with great pleasure by those who
long for some faint realization of the great Nature-Art of the future.

EDITOR'S TABLE

It is evident enough that all questions between North and South must settle themselves, should
the war only go far enough. When it comes to the struggle for life; to the last most desperate
effort on either side for political and personal existence, then people will begin to open
their eyes to the fact that the one who conquers must conquer effectually, and hold the vanquished
at utter will. Very few among us have as yet realized this extreme case as the nations of the
Old World have done a thousand times. We who lived at home, have, looking at the late wars
of Europe, imagined that 'the army' might beat or be beaten, but that 'the country' and the
mass of its in-dwellers would remain unharmed. We have not seen cities captured, farms laid
waste, and experienced the horrors of war. When it comes to that, the case becomes desperate,
and nothing is left at last but unconditional victory or defeat. Had we done so, we should
have 'gone to extremes.'

The South has begun the war, dared its terrors, encountered them, and become desperate. It
is win or lose with them. We too, with every loss gather fresh strength. Ere long we shall
probably have every man in the Federal Union capable of bearing arms summoned to the field,
and that less by Executive command than by an individual sense of duty, or dread. Our people
have learned very slowly indeed what disasters may befall them in case of defeat, but they
are gradually coming to the knowledge, and are displaying a rapidly advancing energy of interest
and of action. They have immediate and terrible disasters from hostile armies to repel, and
they have to apprehend in the future such a picture of ruin and disorganization as the result
of secession as no one can bear to contemplate. We are coming to it, and may as well make up
our minds at once to the fact that it is to be a Southern rule in the North or 'Northern' rule
over the South--if we may call that 'Northern' which means simply the principles of the Constitution
as applied to all States, and of justice as recognized by all nations. He must be blind who
can not see that it is to this extreme stage of war to the knife that we are rapidly advancing,
and that its result is far more likely to be complete conquest than reconciliation.

The nations of Europe are waiting for the crisis of the fever to be passed before they intervene.
The sympathy of England is in great measure with the South; yet England may well doubt the
expediency of any partial interference. This tremendous North can yet send forth another million
if needs must be, and still leave those who with tears in their eyes and stern resolve in their
hearts would plant and weave and work to sustain the soldiers a-field. When it comes to this
death-struggle--when we begin to live in the war and for the war alone--where can the foe be?
They have long since sunk in great measure from the social condition of peace into that olden-time
state of full war, when as in Sparta, or Rome, in her early days all things in life were done
solely with reference to maintaining the army. With us it has been--is as yet--very different.
The voice of the highly-paid opera-singer is still heard in our large cities--Newport and Saratoga
never saw gayer seasons than those of 1862--splendor and luxury are still the life of thousands,
and even yet there exists in the North a large political party who are so far from feeling
that there is any desperation involved as to still dally and coquet with the political principles
of the enemy, and talk largely of compromise. When it comes to the bitter end, those trivial,
superficial, temporary men will, we believe, in most cases, be changed into good citizens,
for necessity is a hard master.

For surely as we live it is approaching; the terrible struggle of rule or ruin, which so few
have dared to anticipate. We have ever been so free from tremendous crises of life and death
that even with a war devouring scores of thousands of our best men, very few have realized
what we must come to with a brave and desperate foe. Union victories may defer such a struggle--and
God grant that they have such result!--but in case they do not, what hope remains for our foe?
They have fought well, they are willing to hang out the black flag; but what then? They have
not and can not establish a real superiority of strength, and yet have voluntarily forced upon
a stronger opponent a war which must become deadly.

The tremendous enthusiasm which spread over the country on the last day of August, 1862, was
after all only an awakening. The extraordinary voluntary response to President Lincoln's calls
for six hundred thousand men was merely a beginning. The South, in proportion to its strength
did as much long ago. But the ball is rolling on and the storm grows more terrible. We have
great trials, probably, still before us, but let no one despair. Out of our agony and our desperation
must come victory--a dire and terrible victory it may be for us all--but it will be overwhelming,
and after that victory there will be left no strength in the South to lift a hand.

And in those days the different principles involved in this war will have forced themselves
so fiercely to a result that those who contended for them will seem to have acted almost as
vainly as those who were such children as to resist them. What will become of the Negro if
the South strives to the death, dragging the North down on and after it! What became of Serfdom
during the Thirty Years' War and the other desperate and exhausting wars which followed it?
What will become of Cotton if new markets are opened, as they must be? England has not realized,
as we are beginning to do, that there is not, can not, and will not be a time, when both combatants,
mutually wearied, must let go. Men do not weary of war; the new generation grows up fiercer
than its fathers. The sooner England begins to plant her cotton in Jamaica, and Asia Minor
and India, the better it will be for her. Unless we gain some extraordinary Union victories
this autumn, there will be but little cotton planted next year in Dixie.

We are becoming too strong and fierce for intervention. These be the days of iron-clads and
of great armies. Before England and France engage in war with a desperate nation like ours,
it will be well to think twice. And we are not at the end yet.

Every man and woman in the North may as well, therefore, be warned betimes, and give all his
and her aid to forwarding this war. It will not avail to be feeble, or lukewarm, or indifferent,
to wish it well and do nothing, to give a little or dribble out mere kind wishes. Every one's
property is at stake, or will be, and the sooner we go to work in right earnest the better.
Had we one year ago done what we are even now doing--had we sprung up like a grizzly bear on
a buffalo, and given it for its insolent kick a sudden, tremendous blow, tearing through its
very heart, we should not have dragged out a year of doubt. It is our curse that we are always
'just a little' behind the enemy in enthusiasm. In due time we shall be in the struggle for
life--the faster we advance, the better it will be for us.

On and on and on! We are marching on, and will we, nill we, must conquer or perish.

  'Ye mountains that see us descend to the shore
  Must view us as victors or view us no more!'

It is written that North-America is to rise purified, regenerated, and perfectly free from
the most tremendous and probably exhaustive struggle in history. Believe it, you who live in
it--premonitus, premunitus--'forewarned is to be forearmed.'

       *       *       *       *       *

If President Lincoln were to call out every man in the North capable of bearing arms--according
to medical judgment--between the ages of sixteen and sixty, there would be less difficulty
in assembling them than in drafting a minority. If it were once realized that all must go,
all would go, and with rare exceptions, right cheerfully. It is not so much the dread of battle
and the trials of camp-life which keep men back as the idea that there should be any exempt.
Unless the six hundred thousand be speedily brought into the field, and unless when once there,
they secure us a speedy victory, the voice of the whole country will cry out for a general
and unexcepted conscription.

And if so--why, then, hurrah for it! Let us show Europe and history how far a great nation
can go for a great truth and for its rights. Why should we not all arise in tremendous power
as whole races rose of old, and trample to the dust this insolent, slaveholding, liberty-defying
foe to us and to the holiest rights of man? Such an uprising would be worthy of us--it would
rank as the noblest deed of history--it would cast fresh lustre on the name, already great,
of our noble President--it would be unparalleled in grandeur, in daring, and in majesty. Its
very greatness would thrill the people and inspire them to do each man his utmost. Hurrah for
the onward march of the millions!

Watch the times well, Father Abraham--and the instant that the time comes, call for us all.
You are not afraid of great measures--neither are your people. What a thing it would be to
have led such a movement--what a glory it would be for every man who marched in the great uprising.

Let us continue by singing:

'TRELAWNEY.'

  Shall Freedom droop and die
  And we stand idle by,
  When countless millions yet unborn
  Will ask the reason why?

  If for her flag on high,
  You bravely fight and die,
  Be sure that God on his great roll
  Will mark the reason why.

  But should you basely fly.
  Scared by the battle-cry,
  Then down through all eternity
  You'll hear the reason why.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Great Onion victory!' cried a little newsboy, lately, through the streets of a certain village,
wherein we were 'over-nighting,' as the Germans say. He had not well learned orthoëpy, and
held that u-n, un, was to be pronounced as in 'unctuous.' Still there are some droll sounds
to be extracted from the word--witness the following song in which by a slight modulation of
sound the word Union is made a war-cry to advance:

DE-CAMPING SONG.

  U-ni-on--you an' I on!
  It's time that you and I were gone;
  Gone to fight with all our might,
  And drive the rebels left and right;
  There is Uncle Sam, and I am Sam's Son,
  And we'll crush the Philistines with you an' I on.

  CHORUS.

  U-ni-on--you an' I on!
  It's time that you an' I were gone.

  U-ni-on, are you nigh on?
  It's time we were there, and the fight were won;
  O Old Samson! you never knew
  What this Sam's son, when he tries, can do;
  Your jaw-bone made the enemy flee--
  They shall walk jaw-bone from Tennessee.
    U-ni-on--you an' I on!
    It's time that you an' I were gone.

Reader, if the great call should come, drafting the whole North, why, pack up your blankets
and travel, light of heart, remembering that when you are there, the secession-pool of rebellion
must 'dry up' in a hurry.

Much has been said as to the degree of complicity in which the confederates were guilty in
stirring up savages against us. In a 'Secesh' poem which 'De Bow' declares to be among the
best which belong to the war, we find the following, which seems to have been written in the
Indian interest:

  'Our women have hung their harps away,
    And they scowl on your brutal bands,
  While the nimble poignard dares the day
    In their dear defiant hands;
  They will strip their tresses to string our bows
    Ere the Northern sun is set;
  There's faith in their unrelenting woes,
    There's life in the old land yet.'

Now it is very evident that if the author of the lyric was not describing Indian squaws when
he alluded to the 'scowling' females whose 'nimble poignards dare the day,' he certainly ought
to have been. But the allusion to 'the bows,' settles the matter. Bows and arrows are not used
in the confederate army, though they are by Albert Pike's Indians--enough said.

But if the secessionists will come North, and hemp should give out, we may find a new application,
with a slight alteration to the verse in question. For then our women of the North may

  'Strip their tresses to string your beaux.'

And serve 'em right, too. That's all. But really, if this be, in the opinion of the first magazine
of the South, one of the best of Southern poems, what must the 'common sort' be?'

GONE.

BY H. L. SPENCER.

  Gone! the South winds come again,
  Sweeping over bill and plain,
  Murmuring through the sombre pines,
  Singing o'er the budding vines,
  Bringing with them birds that sing
  All the glories of the spring;
  But they bring not back to me
  The boy without whose smile earth's smiles
        I never see.

    His bed the wood-nymphs strow
    With all the flowers that blow,
  And the sweet tones of their minim harps
        His quiet slumbers lull;

    For Nature was his joy,
    And he was Nature's toy:
    Where sleeps the peerless boy,
  She scatters with a lavish hand
        The bright, the beautiful.

  He reigns, though lost to sight!
  Through the long day and night
  Is his sweet influence shed
  Around the paths I tread:
  He is not lost--ah! no--he is not dead.

  Not dead! his voice I hear
  When South winds murmur near;
  I feel, when stars arise,
  His soft and loving eyes,
  And from the forest flower
  His face at evening hour
  Smiles on me as of old,
  And dreamily my neck his tiny arms enfold.

  Not lost to joy, but lost to pain,
  Which never shall he feel again;
  Earth's acrid fruits he shall not taste,
  And wrong it were to chide the haste
  With which he left this barren field,
  That with its flowers so few, so many thorns doth yield.

  I can not mourn my king, for his
  Still, still the kingdom is,
  And the cares which earth-bred kings annoy,
  No more disturb my king--my boy.

Do you smoke? If so, read the following:

IS SMOKING BENEFICIAL?

Leaning from the balcony of the old hotel at Stresa, on the Lago Maggiore, the old hotel kept
by Papa Bolangaro, and watching the sunset over Isola Bella and the lake, my friend Blome knocked
away the ashes from his Vevay segar--wretched segars those--and dreamily gazed at the beautiful
scene before him.

Vino Barbera, as they wrote its name in the bill, was not a bad wine; a bottle of it assisted
imagination as a percussion-cap does the powder in your rifle. In the present ease it also
brought on an explosion, for as Blome knocked off the segar-ashes for the second time, he heard
a loud exclamation from a balcony on the primo piano below him. He looked down. You have seen,
I have seen, all the world has seen the Italian woman of paintings and engravings--black eyes,
black hair, golden and red-peach complexion--there she was.

My friend passed down apologies for his oversight; an oversight--bowing preux-chevalier-ly--he
was afraid unpardonable, when he saw the object he had overlooked. The beautiful Italian received
the apology most charmingly. It proved the overture to a brilliant adventure culminating in Milan.

'You observe,' said Blome to me, 'what real benefits can be derived from smoking. Here have
I formed the acquaintance of a very pretty woman, who will fall desperately in love with me,
who will call me by my first name within two days, all through segar-ashes. I had a friend
in Jena once, the university-town----'

'Where you got that sword-cut over the cheek?'

'Where I received it. Good! My friend in Jena was a theological student, a very steady young
man. While others would come reeling home from the beer-kneips, he would be careful always
to keep steady and under gentle sail; but he had one weakness, a want of confidence while in
the presence of woman--one strong point, pipe-smoking.

'One afternoon he was smoking a pipe at his chamber-window, and regarding the passers-by in
the street below. When his pipe was smoked out, he emptied its ashes in the street; as he did
so, he looked down, Himmel! The ashes fell on the head of Fräulein Baumann, who dwelt in the
same house in the story below him, and who was at that time knitting a pair of stockings and
also looking at the passengers in the street.

'The theological student drew his head in from the window with the quickness of a turtle. He
sat down and meditated.

'Now Fräulein Baumann was a good-hearted blonde, very well calculated to make a good wife to
somebody, and her mother, the widow Baumann, determined that this calculation should become
a mathematical certainty the first time there was any opportunity of its becoming a fixed fact.
She had for some time regarded our student as the coming man. When he flung ashes at her daughter's
head, the mother said to her daughter:

''Angelika, thou must find time to make a potato-salad, and see that the smoked goose is well
cooked on thy wedding-day.'

''Ma, when am I going to be married, and who to?'

''Stille! here comes thy husband.'

'With great trembling the student summoned up force enough to descend the stairs, in order
to make a humble apology to the Fräulein for the ashes accident. He knocked at the Frau Baumann's
door, and asked to see the Fräulein; but lo! her mother stood before him with a very affable air.

''Mad-dad-ame, I have called in--in, in relation to your d--d-daughter. I----'

''Are you not the theological student, Herr Müller, who lives overhead?' asked Frau Baumann.

''I am, Mad-dame. I----'

''Be seated, I pray you, and O mein Herr! I am so glad to learn from your own lips the declaration
of your love for my dearest, best, kindest daughter, Angelika. She will make you the best of
wives; a nurse in affliction, a companion in distress, a soother in sorrow, a housekeeper in
tribulation, a--but here she is! Angelika, my daughter, behold the Herr Müller, who has sought
thy hand; give him the betrothal kiss.' Here Frau Baumann bursting into tears, left the room
and the young people together.

'I draw a curtain over the thunderstruck theological student. He went in about ashes and was
coming out with hymeneal torches! Before he knew where he was, he had given the betrothal kiss,
and one year afterward married the blonde Angelika. If you ever meet an old lady who says smoking
is beneficial, you may be sure her name is Frau Baumann, mother-in-law of our theological student.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Shoddy is not so much heard of now. But he still lives--especially in memory and in poetry--videlicet.

'SHODDY.'

BY J. IVES PEASE.

  Old Shoddy sits in his easy-chair,
    And cracks his jokes and drinks his ale,
  Dumb to the shivering soldier's prayer,
    Deaf to the widows' and orphans' wail.
  His coat is warm as the fleece unshorn;
    Of a 'golden fleece' he is dreaming still:
  And the music that lulls him, night and morn,
    Is the hum-hum-hum of the shoddy-mill.

  Clashing cylinders, whizzing wheels,
    Rend and ravel and tear and pick;
  What can resist these hooks of steel,
    Sharp as the claws of the ancient Nick?
  Cast-off mantle of millionaire,
    Pestilent vagrant's vesture chill,
  Rags of miser or beggar bare,
    All are 'grist' for the shoddy-mill.

  Worthless waste and worn-out wool,
    Flung together--a specious sham!
  With just enough of the 'fleece' to pull
    Over the eyes of poor 'Uncle Sam.'
  Cunningly twisted through web and woof,
    Not 'shirt of Nessus' such power to kill.
  Look! how the prints of his hideous hoof
    Track the fiend of the shoddy-mill!

  A soldier lies on the frozen ground,
    While crack his joints with aches and ails;
  A 'shoddy' blanket wraps him round,
    His 'shoddy' garments the wind assails.
  His coat is 'shoddy,' well 'stuffed' with 'flocks';
    He dreams of the flocks on his native hill,
  His feverish sense the demon mocks--
    The demon that drives the shoddy-mill.

  Ay! pierce his tissues with shooting pains,
    Tear the muscles and rend the hone,
  Fire with frenzy the heart and brain;
    Old Rough-Shoddy! your work is done!
  Never again shall the bugle-blast
    Waken the sleeper that lies so still;
  His dream of home and glory's past:
    Fatal's the 'work' of the shoddy-mill.

  Struck by 'shoddy,' and not by 'shells,'
    And not by shot, our brave ones fall.
  Greed of gold the story tells.
    Drop the mantle and spread the pall.
  Out! on the vampires! out! on those
    Who of our life-blood take their fill.
  No meaner 'traitor' the nation knows,
    Than the greedy ghoul of the shoddy-mill!

       *       *       *       *       *

Some years ago, a German writer informed his astonished readers: 'Thieves are so rare in America,
that I observe, from reading their journals, that those who are curious in such studies are
obliged to offer a reward to find them.' To judge from a recent attempt at imposition in New-York,
one might suppose that negroes were so rare in this country that we are obliged to imitate
them, by way of keeping up the supply. Not long ago, a young woman, named Perry, and a Dr.
Perkins, of Oneida county, engaged with a broker of the curb-stone persuasion to show off the
lady as a case of gradual external carbonization; it being asserted that for four years her
body had gradually been turning to charcoal! Examination by Dr. Mott and others revealed the
fact that 'the supposed epidermis was made of woven cotton, into which charcoal mixed with
gum had been worked.' This was tightly gummed to the fair dame, who was to have been exhibited
'in style' in a stylish house in Fourth street; but who was taken to Bellevue Hospital, to
be 'ungummed,' as the French say of people who are turned out of place and lose their chances--as
this damsel did. The incident will doubtless, at a future day, find a conspicuous place in
the history of remarkable impostures. As it is, we conclude with the remark of a friend, to
the effect that the lady, by putting the Coal On, had brought herself to a Full Stop!

       *       *       *       *       *

We are indebted to the Amsterdam (N. Y.) Weekly Dispatch for remarks to the effect that THE
CONTINENTAL MAGAZINE is reaching a point in American literature seldom gained at so early a
period by any young magazine. 'We hail its independence of thought as the development of a
new era in the literature of our land. Its matter is high-toned and interesting, it is the
most outspoken print we know of, and its outspokenness is the result of a fresh and vigorous
life that is not warped by petty conventionalities.'

We thank our editorial friend for his compliment, and sincerely trust that those who have followed
us in our career will not disagree with him. We honestly and earnestly believe that we are
outspoken and independent, and accountable in no earthly way to any one, or aught save our
conscience and the public. We can imagine no measure for the good of the people, which we would
not urge heart and soul, and we most certainly know of no public official, in any capacity,
whom we should feel bound to spare in the event of his unworthiness becoming patent. We are
neither Radical nor Conservative, neither anti-capital nor anti-poor-man's rights, but hold
to the great and glorious creed of Labor and Intelligence hand in hand with Capital, and the
harmony of their interests. We believe in constantly enlarging the area of human freedom, holding
that the freer and more responsible you make a man, the more, as a rule, will you stimulate
him to improve himself. And we detest from our very soul the Southern-planter and Northern-democratic-conservative
doctrine that society should consist of two grades, the first being the mudsill poor, to whom
certain protections and privileges should be granted, and are due by the second or the 'higher
classes;' holding that a free American, beyond a good education (to which every tax-payer contributes)
should claim 'nothing from any body,' and that the less use is made of such phrases as 'lower
orders,' 'aristocracy,' and 'social nobility,' the more creditable will it be for man or woman,
let their 'position' be what it will.

This war has inaugurated a new era when earnest, honest thought, and bold straightforward speech
alone can effect any thing. It is the time for fearlessness and straightforwardness if there
ever was one in our history. We have a great war in hand, and great political reforms and measures
of tremendous importance are crowding thickly around it, while others, not less mighty, are
looming dimly behind them. The great principles of Republicanism, of man's capacity for self-government,
of freedom and of progress, have been brought to 'the struggle for life,' and it depends upon
our national American energy and honesty to determine whether they shall live. If they are
to live, we shall be first among nations, not in the narrow, wretched sense of old-fashioned
diplomacy, but in the high Christian sense of aiding all oppressed humanity in their hopes
of attaining their rights. But if these principles are to perish--better would it be for this
whole land to become a wilderness, and every life a death, than that we should survive the
degradation. We have not yet sunk so low that there is no truth left worth dying for. There
was a time when men, women, and children were martyred by countless thousands for their fidelity
to the faith that extended the same religious rights to all, and now that time has come again
to us, calling for fresh sacrifices to the same principle as regards earthly rights and the
common happiness of mankind.

But we believe that the truth will prevail, after a sore trial, and that we shall be rewarded
to the full. 'No cross, no crown.' But there is a crown after the cross, and God will give
it to us. We are passing through the baptism of fire--and verily we needed it, both South and
North. The South had become mad with vanity and aristocracy; the North was, is still, corrupt
and rotten beyond all healthy life, with such villainy in 'politics,' and such indifference
to all that was noble and honorable through the greed of gold, that honest and able men were
cast aside, or at best, used as mere tools by the 'intelligent.' Now we are in the struggle
for life, and rascals, whether of the Union or of the confederacy, will sooner or later be
tried, tested, and rejected. The people are very patient, and they can be for a long time fooled
with this or that man's reputed honesty and ability. But we have come to the time of trial,
and the people will soon find who is false and what is true.

It is not to be expected that in one year, or in two, the country will be rid of all the old,
corrupt politicians and demagogues who continually work every subject of public interest into
the question of a 'party.' But it is gratifying to observe that, whether Radical or Conservative,
such men are beginning to be regarded with contempt. In times like these, we, at least, blame
no man for honestly advocating any policy which he thinks will aid the Union cause. But the
country was never more disgusted than it is at present, with men who use politics as a mere
trade by which to live. The infamy which has attached to the miserable and imbecile Buchanan,
that type of degraded, pettifogging diplomacy, is rapidly extending to his whole tribe--and
their name is legion. It is significant that a bank, whose notes bore as vignette a portrait
of the ex-honorable ex-President, has been obliged to call them in, and substitute another
device, since so many of the bills were marked beneath the picture with such words as 'traitor,'
and 'Judas Iscariot.'

The people are 'all right' in this struggle: but they are awaking very rapidly to the fact
that those in power must be honest or able. The coming year is to witness either a grand sifting
or a tremendous protest, whose thunder-tones will be heard through all history. It is all very
well for conservatives to lay the blame on their enemies and yell for their blood; to recommend
the assassination of Charles Sumner, as has been done by one Boston journal; or the hanging
of all leading Radicals, as recommended time and again by the New-York Herald; but this will
not satisfy the people who can not see how the country is to be saved by holding up and aiding
the enemy. Neither, on the other hand, will the people long regard with favor any persons of
the opposite party, who are suspected of having managed the war for their own selfish purposes.
The old hacks who can only live for personal preferment and for plunder, will be found out,
and their places taken by honester and younger men, whose minds will have been shaped, not
in by-gone political pettifogging, but in the great earnest needs of the times--in honor and
in truth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Even before authentic copies of General Butler's famed 'Woman Order' had reached us, it was
generally understood that he had really done very little more than enforce an already existing
local law; yet 'with the word' there went up a squall from the democratic press, clamoring
for his instant removal; so angry were the 'Conservatives' that any thing should be said or
done which would in any way injure the 'susceptibilities' of their beloved rebel friends.

If we are really at war, it is neither fit nor proper that such expressions of sympathy for
the enemy should continually appear, to keep alive in the heart of the foe continual hopes
of Northern aid. What does the reader think, for instance, of such a paragraph as the following
from the Washington correspondence of the New-York Herald--which has been copied with commendation
by its colleagues:

     'All conservative men here are shocked at the sweeping measures of
     confiscation proposed by the radicals. They provide substantially
     for the abolition of slavery, because slaveholders, for the most
     part, are considered as rebels by these bills. There are a quarter
     of a million of slaveholders, and a quarter of a million of other
     property-holders in the South, that would be made beggars by the
     execution of this programme. It is pretended that this wholesale
     confiscation is for the purpose of compensating for the expenses of
     the war; but none will dare to go into the Africanized South among
     an infuriated people to purchase estates. It is proposed, also, to
     arm the negroes, and in effect make them superior to the million of
     whites, who are to be deprived of their property. Of course, under
     such circumstances, there will be no cotton or other crops, nor any
     demand for Northern manufactures from the South.'

Really! and so legislation at Washington is to be conducted with special reference to protecting
the property of the rebels! No confiscation, forsooth, because the half million of rebels who
have plunged us into this iniquitous and horrible war, in the hope of utterly ruining us, might
thereby be reduced to poverty! Northern men may pay a million a day in taxes, but the select
slaveholding few who caused the taxation are to be exempted. How shallow is the concluding
'of course, under such circumstances there will be no demand for Northern manufactures from
the South.' Will there not? Wait until the South has been well subdued, thoroughly Butlered
and vigorously Northed; wait till the Yankee is at home there, and then see if there will be
'no demand for Northern manufactures.' Quite as tender to the rebels is the spirit of the following
from the Boston Post of May 31st:

     'Senator Sumner,' a correspondent writes, 'in an argument against
     the proposed tax on cotton, not only opposed it as an act of
     injustice to the unrepresented South--for grain, hemp, and flax
     are left untouched--but as oppressive on manufacturers.' Mr.
     Sumner's sense of justice is called into exercise only when it
     suits its owner's convenience. He has no thought of 'injustice to
     the unrepresented South,' when he wishes to tax negroes, emancipate
     slaves, and confiscate Southern property.'

Such remarks require no comment. If a rebel in arms, disgraced by every infamy of treason,
is only to be treated as his representatives would like, then it is indeed time for the honest
friends of the Union to inquire what safeguard we have in the future against national ruin?

       *       *       *       *       *

MY MOCKING-BIRD.

  With wings a-quiver, eyes irate,
    He watched me coming near,
  Each plume upon his panting breast
    Astir with kindling fear.

  My hand, though always kindly stretched,
    He would not think it good;
  And as I placed some sugar in,
    He pecked, and drew my blood.

  So have I seen the souls caged here,
    To learn celestial speech
  From angels chanting love so near
    They seemed within arm reach;

  When closer to them drew God's power,
    In wrath or terror stand;
  And while he dropped the sweet, dart up
    And rend His dear, warm hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

The London Times is becoming malignantly consistent, and has declared that there should be
at present nothing more said of intervention in American affairs, because it would have the
effect to immediately strengthen the Federal army.

     'If we wish to give the Civil War a new impetus, to recruit for the
     North with a vigor with which they never can again recruit for
     themselves, we have only to take some step, we do not say what
     step, but any step which can be represented as being an
     interference on our part in the quarrel. The spirit of conquest is
     worn out, but we know the Americans too well to doubt that the
     spirit of national independence is as strong as ever. If we
     interfere at all, we assist Mr. Lincoln to raise his three hundred
     thousand men, we give a new impetus to the war, and postpone
     indefinitely the chances of peace, which will never come till the
     North has been convinced that it is useless to prosecute the war
     any further. To do nothing is often the wisest, but generally the
     most difficult policy. We hope that, unless some complete change in
     the conditions of the problem take place, our government will on no
     account allow itself to be tempted out of its present policy of
     expressive silence and masterly inaction.'

The Times speaks too late. One year ago it did not express the sentiments of all England--now
unfortunately we find that it has not only poisoned all Great Britain, but is rapidly stirring
up Europe against us. The steady stream of falsehood; the reports of Federal defeats which
never occurred, and of confederate victories more unfounded, are gradually weakening the faith
even of Americans abroad in the great cause of freedom. Let our people arm and out, in all
their strength. England and France are only waiting for reverses to our Government to attack
us right and left.

       *       *       *       *       *

We clip the following in reference to a popular eccentric phrase from a note by a friend:

     'By the way, do you know that the phrase, 'Or any other man,' can
     be found in Byron's Letter to my Grandmother's Review?

That settles it. After all, there is nothing original in this world, or, as we presume, 'any
other world.'

       *       *       *       *       *

If the steamers for Europe take every week gold from this country, there is at least some comfort
in the reflection that we received and continue to receive something for it. If American securities
are returning to us from abroad, we are at least getting them back cheap and shall some day
sell them again dear. There is some comfort and common-sense in the following from one of 'Hallett
and Co.'s' circulars:

     'We certainly ought not to complain. We had their money at the
     right time. It has done for the nation all that money could do--by
     giving the highest possible value to all our resources and
     products. Having reaped the full advantage of the investment,
     which has increased our means more than five-fold, we were never in
     a better position to commence its return. The securities are still
     very low; on an average from ten to fifty per cent below what they
     were originally sold for. To this discount is to be added something
     over twenty per cent in the present price of exchange. We are
     getting back our securities at about one half what we parted with
     them for. As money is plenty, the foreigner paying the premium on
     gold, we are certainly driving a very good bargain. We can, without
     the least inconvenience, part with one hundred million dollars in
     specie, which is lying idle in the vaults of our banks and the
     hands of our people, and get back nearly twice the amount of
     interest-paying securities, which is equivalent to the payment of a
     debt too, and stopping the interest on an equal amount, assuming
     securities of this country to a similar amount were held abroad,
     which is an excessive estimate, the aggregate not probably
     exceeding one hundred million dollars.'

       *       *       *       *       *

We have heard of a German, who having been strung up in jest and cut down, declared it was
'a fery pad choke.' The best 'choke' of the season was issued by our friend the Boston Traveller,
who in commenting on the remark of the London Times, to the effect that Mr. Lincoln is eating
his artichoke, the South, leaf by leaf, but thinks it will not agree with him, said: 'It will
not trouble him a thousandth part so much as Jeff Davis will be troubled when he shall, by
and by, take his 'heartychoke with caper sauce.''

       *       *       *       *       *

HON ROBERT J. WALKER knows the South well, and he has of late written well on it and on the
present state and future prospects of our country. We have urged Texas from the beginning as
the great stone of resistance which must eventually, by means of free labor be employed to
stem the progress of cotton-ocracy in the other Southern States. On this subject Hon. Robert
J. Walker's letter of June 28th is one of the most instructive and remarkable documents issued
since the beginning of the free-labor agitation, and it is to be desired that it should be
read by every freeman in the Union. Colonization, voluntary but effective, is, as he holds,
the only remedy for the terrible evil of slavery, and the only basis of the peaceful restoration
of the Union.

It was urged, months ago, against THE CONTINENTAL by a radical Abolition organ, that while
favoring Emancipation, we were quite willing 'to colonize the negro out of the way.' And if
it could promote the real welfare of both black and white, why should he not be colonized,
even 'out of the way'? 'But it is impossible,' say the Conservatives; to which we reply that
this is an age of great conceptions and great deeds, and it would be strange indeed if we,
with steamboats, could not effect as much as was done of old by the most primitive races of
both hemispheres. The Incas of Peru had no difficulty in moving hundreds of thousands of a
conquered race to fresh fields and pastures new--why should we find it impossible? Let the
same enthusiasm which has been displayed on the bare subject of freeing the black, be devoted
to freeing and placing him at the same time in a climate congenial to his nature, and we should
soon witness a solution of our great national difficulty.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are indebted to a genial Western correspondent for

TOM JOHNSON'S BEAR.

A STORY WITH A MORAL.

To ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, this poem is dedicated with the 'distinguished
consideration' of

  THE AUTHOR.

  Tom Johnson he lived on the Western border,
  Where he went to escape from 'law and order,'
  For Tom was a terrible fellow, was he,
  He drunk, and he swore, and he fou't[B] like the
  Old Harry--and Tom he had a wife:
  Fit partner she was of his backwoods life.

  Tom lived on the border for divers years,
  Where he fou't the red-skins, and he fou't the bears
  And there wasn't a thing that could bite or scratch
  For which Tom Johnson wasn't a match,
  Excepting his wife, and she was the better
  Half by all odds--he'd often get her
  In a tight place, and give her a strapping.
  But somehow or other 'twould always happen,
  In every tussle and every bout,
  In every 'scrimmage' and every rout,
  She'd come out ahead of the cross-grained old wizzard,
  And by hook or crook manage to 'give him a blizzard.'
  Sometimes from a brawl of which Tom was the hero,
  Returning at midnight, the weather at zero,
  His wife snug in bed, and the door safely barred,
  Long time would elapse ere his shouts could be heard;
  And sometimes she'd catch him dead drunk or asleep,
  When he'd find himself suddenly 'all of a heap,'
  And open his eyes on his bellicose bride,
  Hot mush in his mouth and his under-pins tied.
  So she managed to keep just inside of the law,
  While he ever would find himself 'hors du combat.'

  As Johnson was one day exploring the wood,
  To replenish the meat-tub--then empty--with food,
  While a tree-top near by he was leisurely viewin''
  He spied the short ears and sharp eyes of old Bruin,
  Peering out 'mid the branches--a sight worth a dollar
  When the rifle is charged and the stomach is hollow;
  So he drew a bead on him, and sent him a missile,
  Which Brain perceived, by an ominous whistle,
  Was very near taking him plump in the eye,
  But he dodged just in time, and the bullet went by.

  Now bears are pugnacious--as much so as wives,
  And whenever assaulted will fight for their lives;
  So seeing that Tom's ammunition was spent,
  He determined at once on a hasty descent;
  For knowing that he or Tom Johnson would eat,
  The question arose which should furnish the meat;
  For although the bullet had wrought some confusion,
  A moment's reflection produced the conclusion,
  That he at the foot of the tree with the gun,
  Minus powder and bullet, must needs be the one;
  So he slid down the tree, with much scratching and clawing,
  Designing to give poor Tom's carcass a gnawing.

  But Thomas, intent upon saving his life,
  And calling to mind a sharp trick of his wife,
  As Bruin came down, his legs clasping the tree,
  Caught a paw in each hand and held tight as could be:
  He put on a grip unto Bruin quite new,
  Like a vice when the blacksmith is turning the screw.

  But now what to do there arose a great doubt,
  For Bruin and Johnson had both just found out
  What neither had thought of until 'twas too late,
  That each was exposed to a merciless fate
  At the hands, or the teeth, or the claws of the other,
  At which neither could his astonishment smother,
  And neither knew what it was safest to do;
  'Twas hard to hold on, but 'twas worse to let go!

  Now Johnson still being not far from his house,
  Bethought him in time of his excellent spouse,
  So he hooted and hallooed and made such a noise
  She distinguished at last his affectionate voice,
  Calling loudly for help as it rose on the breeze,
  Like the panther's wild scream in the tops of the trees:
  'O Julee, dear Julee! come, help me this time,
  And I never again--will--(oh! bother the rhyme,)
  Will bite you, or scratch you, or whip you, not I,
  But love and protect you till you or I die.'

  Now good Mistress Johnson, dear soul, when she heard
  The piteous cries of her penitent lord,
  Got herself to the wood with broom-stick in hand.
  'I am, most respectfully, yours to command,'
  Said the wife, as she came and found Tom and the bear
  Both hugging a tree with the grip of despair.
  'O Julee, dear Julee! How can you?--now come,
  Do help me, or quickly-confound it!--our home
  Won't have any master!--dear Julee, consider--
  The children no daddy, and you a lone widow!'
  An unlucky hint for poor Tom, by the by,
  'For worse things might happen!' thought she with a sigh.

  But good mistress Johnson, though love was but scant,
  Had a heart never hewn from the worst adamant;
  It softened apace, so with broom-stick in air
  And ire in her eye she advanced on the bear,
  Who seeing the enemy thus reënforced
  Tried to get his fore-paws from Tom's clutches divorced.

  O woman, poor woman! dear woman! sweet thing!
    O light of earth's darkness! O treasure supernal!
  Thy fond heart, though crushed, win unceasingly cling
    To a loved one, though fallen, degraded, infernal!

  Thrice Bruin's tough hide from the broom-stick now had a cut;
  Quoth Johnson: 'My darling, that weapon's inadequate--
  Hold a bit--let me see--now we'll fix him--here, Mother--
  Reach your hand--take this paw--hold it tight--now the other.
  There, I will dispatch him--ah! where is my gun?
  And bullets? dear me!--ah!--why, what have I done?
  I will run to the house, and be back in a trice--
  Hold on, my beloved! be 'still as a mice!''
  'Quick! quick!' the wife shouted. 'Be off--get away!
  Make tracks, Mr. Johnson! don't stand there all day!'

  So Tom started off in pursuit of assistance,
  And leisurely walking a very short distance,
  Turned, paused to reflect, then addressed her: 'My dear,
  My conscience upbraids me concerning this bear;
  A very great doubt has arisen in my mind--
  I am not quite sure--but am rather inclined,
  Indeed--I may say--I have reached the conclusion
  That bears have been made a Divine Institution;
  This is plainly deduced from the Scriptures of truth,
  Which frightened me much in the days of my youth,
  With the story of forty of ages quite tender,
  Torn to strings by two gears of the feminine gender:
  And not only so, but you see, Mistress Julia,
  This same institution is very 'peculiar;'
  I found it somewhat inconvenient to hold,
  (The cubs are quite harmless, but this one is old,)
  He is gentle at first, but as muscle increases,
  Shows some disposition to tear one in pieces.
  Then hold him the tighter, and keep up good heart,
  As it's all in the family, you'll do your part.'

  Tom closed his oration with actions to suit,
  Then went to his house, where the reprobate brute
  Whipped the children and kicked his old mother out-door,
  Got tipsy as Bacchus and rolled on the floor,
  While his wife held the bear, fast tied to the spot,
  And how long she staid there, deponent says not.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Secesh has a bear, and has had many years,
  At first, a mere pet, he engendered no fears;
  But now he's grown strong and can fight like a major,
  And has like his master become an old stager;
  He has taught him to work, and has trained him to fight,
  Adding strength to his hands and increasing his might;
  Albeit if free he would turn on his master,
  Who knows it full well, and hence holds him the faster;
  But not only so, he insists we shall help
  While he fights to destroy us, at holding his whelp!
  And strangely enough, we obey his command,
  While he strikes at our vitals and plunders the land!
  He has murdered the son and led captive the brother,
  Has broke up the home and made war on his mother;
  And now while our sons by the thousand are slain
  The nation to save and its life to maintain,
  When the patriot's eyelids are closing in death,
  While a prayer for his country inspires his last breath,
  Or bleeding he lies as the foul traitor's dart
  Is caught in the folds of the flag round his heart,
  While freedom's bright bow, for the millions unborn,
  No longer encircles the brow of the storm,
  While the sun of our glory grows dim in our sight,
  And the star of our destiny's shrouded in night;
  Still our paralyzed hands, to our country untrue,
  Are stretched out to succor the traitorous crew,
  As they strike for our lives, fully bent on our ruin,
  We lend them assistance by holding their Bruin,
  And tell all the world that our national wars
  Shall be waged to protect constitutional bears.

  And now let us know, my dear sir, in conclusion,
  How long must continue this monstrous delusion,
  (If not a state secret, so sacred a one
  That it may to the Cabinet only be known,)
  While being destroyed by a traitorous war,
  How long we must aid them by holding their bear?
  Or how long shall we flourish our broom-stick, and say,
  To one who would help us: 'Keep out of the way!
  Go home to your master, your Samaritan neighbor;
  Return all his kindness and give him your labor,
  Plant corn, hoe the cotton, and keep things all bright,
  Give him plenty to eat and more leisure to fight;
  For we mean to protect him in every 'RIGHT;'
  And the best way of keeping the 'whole Constitution'
  Is to help those who fight for its whole dissolution,
  (Though this proposition may seem somewhat strange,)
  While we dig our own ditches and fire at long range,
  For our duty is plain, when the traitor makes war,
  To give aid and comfort by holding his bear.'

[Footnote B: In the border dialect this word rhymes with 'shout,' 'about,' etc.]

       *       *       *       *       *

We find the following in the notice of THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY by a contemporary:

     'The CONTINENTAL looks upon Slavery through blood and murder eyes.
     It sees in the institution nothing but lashes, salt-rubbed wounds,
     bloodhounds, and iron-hearted taskmasters. It looks upon the war
     as solely for the freedom of the nigger; and judging from its tone
     for the past six months would undoubtedly go in for an entire
     separation, if its editors and contributors thought at the end of
     the conflict the rebellious States would be restored to the Union
     with the 'peculiar institution' still in force.'

Ab uno disce omnes. This, reader, is the manner in which every democratic-conservative journal
which has undertaken to notice our Magazine speaks of it. And the reader who has followed us--who
has fairly and equitably appreciated our views of the war and of Emancipation--will not hesitate
for an instant in pronouncing it as perfectly false a verdict as was ever yet given against
any one. We have never in any way looked upon the war as 'solely for the freedom of the nigger,'
and we have been chid by the regular Abolition press because we did not look more to the welfare
of the negro, or, as the Liberator accused us, of being willing to 'colonize the slave out
of the way.' It was in the Knickerbocker and in these pages, and editorially, that the principle
of the true Republican, Free White Labor Emancipationists, in the words, 'Emancipation for
the sake of the WHITE Man,' first appeared. And while we advocate ultimate emancipation, it
is not as the matter of primary importance that we do so. Slavery has inextricably entangled
itself with the war, and no one who takes a broad, comprehensive view of the struggle, or of
contemporary history, can fail to see that slavery must ultimately go, because it makes bad
citizens of the masters, wastes soil, represses manufactures, neutralizes the proper development
of capital, and, worst of all, degrades labor--man's noblest prerogative--and inflicts grievous
wrong on the white working man. And does not every Southern journal and every Southern 'gentleman'
prove what we say? 'Aristocrat,' 'Norman gentleman,' 'Yankee serf,' 'vile herd'--is it not
enough to make the heart sick and the brain burn to hear the poor sons and daughters of toil,
those whom God has appointed to be truly good and useful, cursed and reviled in this manner
by the few owners of black labor? Is there not enough in the wrongs of the white man to inspire
all the headlong zeal and boldness with which the press credit us, without making the miserable
negro the chief aim? Not but that we pity the latter, God knows! But it is the elevation of
the dignity of white labor that we have in hand, and while we advocate 'emancipation to come'
sooner or later, it is as a means of doing justice to the white man. Let us emancipate white
labor from the comparison with slavery and from the sneers of an aristocracy which will be
'Cæsar or nothing' among us.

The South has sinned against man and God by voluntarily, boldly, shamelessly reviling the poor,
who are the chosen children of God. And for all this they shall be judged by those whom they
have cursed and ridiculed. The most crushing tread of destiny is reserved for those who impertinently
aid her in trampling the lowly. Does Christ, think you, whose whole teaching was one upholding
of the poor and the hard-working, approve this scorn of the 'laboring scum'? So surely as this
thing has been fevered to a war, so surely shall there be one last moment when dying Southern
sin shall exclaim: 'Vicisti Galilæ!'

But what are we to think of the hangers-on and parasites and shadows and 'shadows of shadows,'
as Plautus calls the vilest toadies to sycophants, who, hard-working men themselves, try to
catch some faint reflection of sham gentility by 'talking pro-slavery because they think it
aristocratic,' as Winthrop says? What of an editor--the one who of all men works hard for indifferent
reward--who forgets the nobility which should surround all who speak for and to the people,
and beslabbers the meanest and most contemptible of even sham aristocracies, that which is
self-conscious, self-glorifying by comparison and forgetful that noblesse oblige? Or what of
him when he cunningly and with the vulgar 'cuteness which characterizes the most degraded snobbery,
takes pains to make it appear that the labor of another on behalf of the poor white man is
meant solely for the negro, and that the former is to be sacrificed to the latter!

We know, see, and feel clearly what we want and what we believe. It is the progress of the
rights of free white labor, which correctly considered means all that is right. And if this
were understood and felt, as it should be by those most deeply interested, our police would
be amply sufficient to punish the soi-disant Normans of the South.

       *       *       *       *       *

If we could speak a word to all men in or about to enter the army, it would be: 'Don't drink.'
We know the fever and ague country, and assure our readers that all advice to the contrary
notwithstanding, he who lets liquor alone will fare best in the end. Apropos of which we clip
the following:

     'Hall's Journal of Health recommends to those writing to soldier
     friends to inclose a little capsicum (in the vulgar, simply
     strong cayenne pepper) in the letter. The editor declares that the
     effect of the slightest pinch in a glass of water, is better than
     quinine whisky. It prevents thirst, and wards off miasma; it
     protects from chills, and does not induce too much animal heat. It
     stimulates without leaving any depressing effect; all of which we
     most firmly believe. The weight is so small that enough to do a
     great deal of good may be put in tissue-paper and be inclosed in a
     single letter without cost additional to the regular postage
     rates.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Every mail brings fresh proof of English antipathy to the Federal Union. It is now only a question
of time when we are to be attacked by the great Abolition nation. John Bull is hammering away
at his iron-clads and doing his best in every direction to aid the aristocratic and despotic
principle, so dear to his soul--nay, which is his very soul and self. In China he is helping
the Imperialists, whose awful and heart-rending atrocities go beyond all belief--in the West,
the slaveholder meets with his warmest sympathy. How well--how human--how Christian he looks
now with his sheepskin thrown aside--this selfish, brutal savage, howling for cotton and trade
and gold as though all truth, honor, and nobility were as dirt before them.

For all this, England will have its reward. In the history of nations, 1862 shall be marked
as the year of British falsehood, infamy, and guilt. Upharsin!

       *       *       *       *       *

DEAR CONTINENTAL: Curious fellows those Pre-Raphaelites!

Do you remember Holman Hunt's picture of the Light of the World? I remember that one evening
at the Century, among a cheerful group of Leutze, Durand, Gifford, Mignot, and others, you
once called it a pre-Raphaelight of the World!

Well, 'twas far away in Switzerland, tilly hi ho--tilly i o! all in the mountains high, several
years ago, and I was touring and sketching somewhere along in the Oberland. I found at last
a retired village without English. No--not without them altogether--there was one little man
with a barba rossa, and he was pre-Raphaeliting round for a subject.

He found it at last in a small rock about nine inches by twelve--full of sentiment, tone, color,
piety, feeling, reality, child-like faith and trustingness.

And he went to work to paint the rock.

Day after day he painted. When it rained he worked under an umbrella; when it sun-shone on
him he toiled in the heat.

I pitied him. 'Smith,' said I, 'what do you do that for? Why don't you pick your stone up and
take it home with you? Put it in your trunk and carry it back to London. It isn't a landscape,
you know.'

'By Jove!' quoth he, 'I never thought of that. So I will, d'ye know. 'Ow very hodd! Vell! you
Yankees are werry hinwentive, I must hadmit.'

And he did; and the portrait of the rock went into the 'Annual Exhibish,' and was thought to
be the deepest-toned thing 'out.'

And it's true.

  Yours also,
  GALLI VAN T.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is odd, but after all, the world seldom sees a real original letter. Letters of business,
old letters, love-letters, and letters written for print, the world sees enough. But the real
life-descriptive gossiping letter is rarely en-typed. More's the pity.

Here is one--from a never-seen friend--which has been lying for months in THE CONTINENTAL his
drawer. Shall we be pardoned for publishing it? We hope so, for we remember that it pleased
us well when we received it, and what is good for the editor must be good for the reader. Let
it go!

  The Hermitage, May, 1862.

DEAR FRIEND: Appearances--to make a very original remark--are deceitful. To the traveler who
may chance to cast his eyes upon this little brown, house, a little brown house it will be
to him, 'and nothing more.' He will not even notice the woodbines that are flinging their arms
around the windows, nor will he dwell for an instant upon the thrifty cotton-woods that guard
the door, or bestow more than a casual glance on the artistically arranged garden-beds, wherein
I have anxiously watched tulips and radishes sprouting into existence. Anxiously--for winter
has been writing a somewhat lengthy postscript to his annual message, and the modest, gentle-mannered
spring retreats in lady-like fright before his furious blasts.

Now we are having an interval of hazy warmth--the really royal weather of the year--red sunshine,
the hills purple and blue in the distance, and the still air savory with the smoke of brush-burnings
and the wild breath of new-lifed vegetation. Lovelier than the Indian summer, for mingled with
all things is the consciousness of the flowering and fruiting to come. The Indian summer has
a sweet sadness. The spring is full of hope and promise, and the heart buds with the flowers.

Out in the midst of all this country springtime freshness, our 'Hermitage' looks up from its
shrubberies and rejoices within itself, and does not care for the traveler's careless glances.
The traveler may call it stupid and ugly, if he calls it at all; our Hermitage still patiently
wears its havelock of weather-beaten shingles, for it knows that beneath its lowly roof--radiant
with whitewash and fresh paper--are cozy, coolly curtained rooms, where friendly books look
down from the wall, and drowsy arm-chairs woo from the corners.

Yes, many Wisconsin banks have yielded up their lives in the past year, and in one of these
fatal safes our little pile of 'ready' irrevocably evaporated! Ah! the palmy days! when we
had rooms at the ----; when our tables were marble-topped and our mirrors presented full-length
portraits of us; when every dinner was a feast for epicures; when servants awaited our nod
or beck; when Davis's best turn-out bowled us away to the purple bluffs yonder, at every sunset,
and bowled us back again happy in pocket and in heart! Those days have gemmed themselves in
the past.

We find it necessary to 'put in for repairs,' as they say of a steamboat when her smoke-stacks
are snapped off by a Lake Pepin gale, and she goes ashore. At no distant day we will again
go out into the tide. From any quantity of 'wild lands'--which we have the felicity of paying
taxes on--we have selected a ten-acre patch in the neighborhood of the city, and are living
something after the style of Thoreau, except that we have a better cook!

From our modestly architectured porch we look out upon the broad, far-stretching valley of
the Mississippi. It is a vast view--so that a shower becomes a part of the landscape, and it
is delightful to watch it trailing over the hills. Alexander Smith is ahead of me in this idea,
but no matter. East and west the picturesque bluffs mingle in hazy softness with the sky; the
roofs and steeples of the city glimmer in the sunny distance; now and then, away through the
wooded banks we see columns of pearly steam, as some stately boat goes gliding by. I shall
always have a weakness for these proud, screeching steamboats, for there is one among them--the
dear old 'Milwaukee'--for which I entertain a confirmed infirmity! We went honey-mooning in
the 'Milwaukee.' Its musical and far-heard whistle is doomed for evermore to deluge my soul
in a 'sea of soft-blue memories.'

Our carpets are of matting and oil-cloth, islanded here and there with a choice bit of rug.
My little kitchen is exultant in shining tins, a glittering 'Hotspur,' patented 1860, and a
capacious cupboard, through the glass doors of which shines forth a complete set of 'Ironstone.'
On Mondays a little Bohemian--with surprising strength in her diminutive person--comes, and
out from the fury of suds and steam issues a line of snowy, flapping clothes. She receives
her 'tri shealing' and trots home. Aside from washing, I am addicted to that unpoetical, homely,
dry, and utterly plebeian practice of doing my own work. Think you I could endure to have a
poetic mood burst in upon by a red-faced girl, smelling of dish-water, exclaiming, 'The tay's
out'? Besides, I never was born to, had thrust upon me, or achieved, any surplus amount of
'greatness,' consequently my laurels will not suffer from being in contact with sauce-pans
and toasting-forks. (But fancy the idea of Mrs. Browning a-frying flapjacks!) I have lived
for the most part in the country, you know, and at the old home I was applauded on by an appreciative
mamma to rare feats in this department of humble life. I combine the artist with the cook--the
ideal with the material. I consult color and the nice shades of taste. Indeed, I make cooking
and furniture-arranging an art. The emerald lettuce I mingle with the ruby radish; the carefully
browned trout I surround with a wall of snowy and hot potatoes; the roseate shavings of beef
and ham flank the golden butter, which is stamped in a very superior manner, I may say, with
the American Eagle; the amber honey sides with the royal purple of grape-jelly; and the creamy
biscuit contrasts with the deep chrome of the sponge-cake beside it, etc., etc. Of various
pastries and entrees--of which I alone hold the original recipes--I will not speak. Suffice
to say, that it may be of interest to some housekeepers to send me a prepaid envelope!

Should you go Minnehahaing this summer, I shall hope that you may fail to make connections
with the St. Paul Packet Company, so that while waiting a boat you may find it convenient to
immortalize 'The Hermitage' by breaking fast beneath its humble roof.

  Hermetically thine,
  MARIE.

We would that we could. Alas! there is very little 'ha-ha-ing' of any kind this serious 'battle-summer'--least
of all for us toward the rosy West. Well, a time may come, and when it does, of a verity the
Hermitage shall become well known to 'Esquire CONTINENTAL.'

       *       *       *       *       *

A CORRESPONDENT, whose style, by the way, is quaint enough to be printed with black-letter,
thus favors us with his protest against certain merely 'bread-and-butter' notions of Woman:

     I object to the current newspaper 'Advice for Girls.' A woman may
     know how to cook, sweep, sew, tend babies; but is this what a
     young man--Spanish, virgen--most looks, or cares for, or thinks
     of, when he seeks life-companionship--a Somebody to get him dinner,
     tidy his room, fasten his shirt-buttons, and bear him children?
     'Tis not for spread tables, kept house, mended clothes, nor
     pleasure, that the young man's soul thirsts. For sympathy, for
     love, for the object of his manliness, for its complement, for his
     wife--and not a servant, nor a mistress.

     He does indeed holily choose the mother of their little ones, but
     newspaper-notice hints nothing of that; it teaches bodily, not
     spiritually, and simply trains up a female able to bear offspring
     of healthy flesh.

     However, the husband requires a lover fit to join with him in
     spirit also, for the total benefit of posterity.

     The education which best suits a woman, then, is it carnal or
     soulful? to make a kitchen-drudge or a soft-eyed maiden? a prudent
     housewife or a thoughtful heartsweet? 'a special breeder' (POPE) or
     a trusted bosomer? Cattle and machinery are for this labor-saving.
     The true end of woman is feminity. Therefore, if she is any
     brighter and heartsomer for playing in the fields, any more pensive
     and sober for meditating there, who shall deny her God's free air
     and sunshine?

     If she is more delicate and softer to handle the light embroidery,
     or plan the curious patchwork, who shall restrict her busy
     ingenuity to garments of wear--coarse jackets, trowsers, shirts?

     If she is more earnest and devoted for loving and suffering through
     a romance, who shall hinder from reading and writing, or limit the
     one to Pilgrim's Progress, the other to a letter, or confine her
     pity to street-beggars, for whom alms-giving is act of charity not
     more than tears are for imagined woes?

     If she is more winning and tender by dwelling with old friendships
     and memorable passages of trial or happiness, who shall fetter her
     thoughts to the selfish indifference of the present, or the dull
     routine of daily toil called duty?

     If she is gentler and meeker, purer and loftier, Christlier, for
     contemplating God and the angels, who can bind her conscience to
     worship her husband or 'God in him'? (MILTON.)

     Summarily and concisely, if she is more womanly, in any sort, for
     doing, saying, thinking, whatsoever, howsoever, whithersoever, is
     not what she ought the term and measure of what she may? or else
     who shall presume to prescribe other bounds to her nature, and
     undertake to restrain its ongoings in this or that direction?

     Is female determined by male? woman's mind by the wind of man's
     caprice? or both mutually interdetermined by the law of their
     correlation, his wants and her capacities, her wants and his
     abilities? And if he preaches utility, but she follows taste,
     whether is to be concluded, that he needs more of practicality in
     her, or she more of æstheticality in him? Is it that women lack
     usefulness or that men lack beautifulness?

     The sterner sex, by assuming to itself superior desires, can
     stigmatize the other because the female disposition does not meet
     its own; but truth and right may be much upon the other side. Women
     may be nearer standard, just in this land and age, than men; and
     their unsatisfied longings for handsome, chaste, and noble men are
     swifter witnesses than all the low complaint about feminine finery
     and extravagance. When men can seem to better understand that it is
     not necessarily madness to prefer (as Nero) a fortune in marble to
     a fortune in gold, or a Raphael's painting to 'money in the bank,'
     when they shall come to recognize the utility of beauty and
     holiness, then will not women be slow to acknowledge the use and
     usefulness of so much utility.

       *       *       *       *       *

Honor to Sigel! honor to Heintzelman! Whatever may have been said or sung against others, there
is no doubt as to the ability, faithfulness, perseverance, and courage of these gallant Deutschers,
and with them of many others of their glorious nation who have followed their national and
instinctive hatred of tyranny, and taken part with us in battle against the South. Hurrah then
for our German Generals. Sigel soll leben, vivat hoch!

  Wir geh'n die Waffen in der Hand,
  Zu retten unser Vaterland,
       Und unser Kampf ist Sieg.
  Wir tragen nicht Erober-Schwerdt,
  Wir schützen Weib und Kind und Heerd,
       Gerecht ist unser Krieg.

  (ENGLISH.)

  'We go with weapon in our hand,
  And all to free our Father-land,
       A victory is our fight.
  We seek to win no foreign earth,
  We fight for wife and child and hearth:
       God knows our cause is right.'

How many hundreds of thousands of Germans are there to whom these lines have become as applicable
in this our 'Trans-Atlantic Germany' as when sung of old under the oaks of the Teuton father-land.
When this battle shall be over, let every one bear in mind the good and faithful aid they gave
us. Nor shall the Irish be forgotten, who with such desperate courage have contributed so largely
to swell our armies. They are in every regiment, they have been foremost in every battle, their
dead lie on every field. Let those deny it who will, we should have fared badly enough had
it not been for the Irish. They have shown themselves from the beginning as presenting

  'First fut on the flure,
  First stick in the fight.'

They gave us the poet-warrior O'Brien, and the brave and generous Kearney, and the noble Corcoran--but
the list is too long. Honor to them all.

There are many very good sort of people who will tell you, 'I don't like Germans,' or 'I don't
like Irish!' We trust that this war will drive all such dislikes among us out of existence.
Those who indulge in them are generally narrow-minded, un-cosmopolite sort of people. The principles
of our day and of our war--the Republican principles--are opposed to all such illiberality.
The Southerner, indeed, proposes to exclude all foreigners--it is his 'policy'--the Republican
would give to the brain and muscle of every living being the fullest chance for development
every where. Free Soil and Free Labor forever!

       *       *       *       *       *

Literature and religion have of late sustained a great loss in the death of Benjamin J. Wallace,
D.D., which took place in Philadelphia August first. The deceased was a descendant of the great
Harris family, which may be almost said to have founded Western Pennsylvania, and which gave
a name to its largest city. Originally educated at West-Point, he subsequently studied divinity
at Princeton, distinguished himself as a New-School clergyman in many States, especially in
the West, was at one time a professor at Delaware College, Newark, and was well known during
the later years of his life as editor of and contributor to that very able magazine, the Presbyterian
Quarterly Review.

We had frequent opportunities of becoming familiar with the scope of Mr. Wallace's abilities,
and can testify that they were truly remarkable. Apart from his theological learning he was
a thorough and extremely varied student of general literature; one familiar to a degree rare
in this country with Greek genius; a most able and ready writer; and above all, a man of strong
belief; one who touched no subject on which he did not write with sincerest interest.

Mr. Wallace left a large circle of friends and a family to mourn a loss which all the friends
of religion and of culture share in common with them. It is seldom that the journalist is called
on to record the death of any one who to natural gifts, aided by most excellent education,
added such a life of conscientious and modest industry. He was a true Christian and gentleman
in all things.

       *       *       *       *       *

The writer of the letter excerpted from in the following story, will accept our sincere thanks
for the 'De Bow,' which, as he will find 'other wheres,' has been turned to account by us:

New-Orleans, August 13th, 1862.

DEAR CONTINENTAL: Let me give you a true version of an anecdote touching the 'contraband' question:
it may do for the Drawer.

A rascally slave-jockey of this habitat procured an order for the rendition of a fugitive,
who was supposed to be in the Quartermaster's employ at the Custom-House, addressed to that
functionary. Meanwhile the negro, who had doubtless been there, had taken refuge in the hospital,
whither Jew pursued him with the same order, not doubting that the Major-General's order was
as good for one place as another. But Dr. Smith, it seems, thought otherwisely, for he coolly
informed the applicant that he was not Quartermaster, and declined to pay any attention to
an order on that officer. Back to head-quarters travels 'Shylock,' with his dishonored order
and his complaint. The paper is forthwith returned with a curt indorsement and the assurance
that 'that will make it all right.' Thus fortified, he returned to the charge, and triumphantly
displaying the back of the paper only to Dr. Smith, demanded his 'nigger.' Dr. Smith looked
at the writing presented to him and read:

'DR. SMITH: You will turn this man out at once.'

Then to the Jockey: 'Here, I am ordered to turn you out of my house. Get out, sir, get out;
get out of my house!' And as he stood petrified with astonishment at the apparent disrespect
shown to the General's order, Dr. Smith called out to the guard: 'Orderly, put this man out
at the door, and see that he is not admitted again.' The fellow found his tongue at length,
but the Doctor, who is no admirer of slave-hunters, would not hear a word of remonstrance,
and the discomfited trader was hustled down the stairs, shaking his order behind him, and spluttering
out his wrath and disappointment.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Grasp thy happiness and bear it with thee.' Is that Sanscrit or Persian? He who said that,
had grasped a great truth. The Beautiful never perishes to him that wills.

ONCE.

  No matter when: enough that moon and stars
    Shone as they shine to-night;
  That tales of desolation and of wars,
    Of struggle and of blight,
  Like the low mutterings of a troublous dream,
  Flitting across the still and peaceful night,
    Glanced o'er my heart and thine!
    The music of the pine--
    The silver, witching stream
  An impress deeper, left upon our hearts.
  The murmuring song fell soothing on our ears;
  The silver stream with beauty charmed our eyes;
  And so we bade the tales of spears and darts,
    With all their train of agony and tears,
  Go to the winds; and leave us golden skies,
  And brooks, and reaching hills, and 'lovers' leaps,'
    With bold and rugged steeps;
  And all the romance of 'enchanting scenes;'
  For thou and I were--midway in our teens!

  Once! breathe it softly, softly, O my heart!
    And thou--my waiting one!
  My unforgotten! wheresoe'er thou art--
    My heart's unfading sun!
  My guiding light beneath the storms and clouds;
  My solace when the woods and hills are lone;
  And the dark pine breathes out its saddening moan;
  And when the night the misty mountain shrouds,
  Breathe it still gently, wheresoe'er thou art,
    Light of my fainting heart!

  'Once!' stop, O wheels of time! upon the word!
    Gather it in a knot of silken blue;
  Bind it all fondly--with a nuptial cord,
    Unto the widowed present! bear it through
  All change--all chance! Love, friendship! hold it fast:
  Let it no more be wedded to the past!
    And human hearts through all life's checkered scenes,
  Shall ever tarry 'midway in their teens'!

We find the following paragraph floating through our exchanges:

     'The venerable John J. Crittenden was in town to-day, preparing to
     start for home. I am sorry to hear that he speaks, to intimate
     friends, very despondingly of our future prospects. This is not as
     it should be. Public men, occupying seats in the high councils of
     the nation, ought never to despair of the republic.'--N. Y.
     Letter.

And how else could the venerable compromiser be expected to speak? The man who dallies with
death and destruction to the last moment--who is only anxious to yield to an insolent and unscrupulous
foe, is just the one of all others who, when the struggle comes, wails and howls despair. Their
hearts were always with Southern aristocracy, these venerable Sweetsops who would have gladly
compromised Northern dignity and manliness down to its very face in the mud before the devil
himself, and then have explained their course by referring to Christian example, as though
Christ himself had not dared death time and again, and finally suffered it as an example that
there is a limit where it is better to perish than that evil should prevail over the truth.

They are all Southrons at heart. Did not the venerable John Bell, only the other day, when
he was offered a safe conduct by Federal forces out of Dixie, prefer to remain there? Of course
he did. Ubi bene ibi patria. We feel and know instinctively where they belong and what they
are, these men whose inordinate vanity of respectability so far outweighs their sense of truth,
honor, and manhood. Very well taken off are they in a happy hit--author to us unknown--setting
forth what they would have agreed on in convention had they lived at the time of the first murder:

     'Resolved, That we are equally opposed to the pretended piety and
     evident fanaticism of Abel and the authorized violence of the
     high-toned and chivalrous Cain.

     'Resolved, That the 'Ultras' who are clamoring for the hanging of
     Cain, which would only exasperate him, desire to destroy the
     domestic happiness and peace of the family, and have no other
     purpose in view.

     'Resolved, That we are in favor of punishing both parties, and
     invite all conservative men to unite with us in frowning down this
     whole business.

     'Resolved, That nobody has a right to provoke murder, and if Abel
     had exhibited less fanaticism this one never would have occurred.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Apropos of which subject and which men, we are reminded of a rough and ready poem by William
Higgins:

THE COMPROMISER.

  A cross between a man and slave
    This mongrel thing produces,
  Who deems himself ordained to save
    The Union by sham truces.

  In strife between the Wrong and Right
    To hold the nation's border,
  Ashamed to run, afraid to fight,
    He faintly squeaks out 'Order!'

  The boasted friend of quiet, peace,
    He'd quell all agitation,
  By giving Satan longer lease
    Of earth, to damn the nation.

  No matter, though the Scriptures teach
    The golden rule of action,
  He says 'tis but a fancy speech,
    And proves it to a fraction!

  He knows no 'Higher Law,' but thinks
    State Rights the Catechism;
  Which having learned by rote, he links
    His practice to his schism.

  And thus is fitted to proclaim,
    With all his might and vigor,
  Nor feel a single blush of shame,
    'That chains become a nigger!'

  With him, Religion is a boon,
    That Slavery may diddle;
  God's laws to those of John Calhoun,
    Play only second-fiddle!

  The faith for which his fathers bled,
    And died to make him heir to,
  He quite ignores, and takes instead
    That leading God knows where to.

  O compromiser! what a gleam
    Of glory hangs about you!
  No wonder that you proudly deem
    The world would spoil without you!

  With supple knees to slavery bent,
    Your conscience hangs on hinges,
  And gives mild treason easy vent,
    Despite compunction's twinges!

Rude but true. And these be times for truth, however rude.

       *       *       *       *       *

The New-York Evangelist:

A RELIGIOUS AND FAMILY NEWSPAPER

OF THE LARGEST CLASS.

PROSPECTUS FOR 1863.

This long-established paper has now nearly completed its thirty-second volume, and notwithstanding
the severe calamities in which the country is involved, and which tax most heavily in men and
money those States in which its circulation is largest, it is nearing the close of another
eventful year with its circulation unimpaired--a matter of special gratification, as showing
that its course, in these trying times, has been generally approved, and that it has been more
widely useful than ever the past year, by its firm and cordial support of the Government when
assailed by a wicked rebellion.

ITS COURSE OF EVENTS,

carefully compiled from original and other sources, furnishes from week to week a current

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT CIVIL WAR,

which has been highly prized, for its fullness and accuracy, by all its readers.

While it has aimed never to overstep the limits of a religious journal by violence of language
or the discussion of merely political questions, it has constantly held up the cause in which
we are engaged as

THE CAUSE OF OUR COUNTRY AND OF LIBERTY,

and for which it was the sacred duty of every Christian citizen to be ready to sacrifice his
property and his life.

THE EVANGELIST also contains a weekly summary of intelligence from

ALL RELIGIOUS DENOMINATIONS, REPORTS OF ALL BENEVOLENT SOCIETIES, A LARGE HOME AND FOREIGN
CORRESPONDENCE, FULL NOTICES OF NEW BOOKS, A MONEY ARTICLE AND REVIEW OF THE MARKETS, AND A
CHILDREN'S AND FARMERS' DEPARTMENT, richly supplied with original original and selected articles.

These features render it a COMPLETE FAMILY NEWSPAPER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Terms--Two Dollars, in advance.

As the Proprietors wish to extend the circulation of THE EVANGELIST more widely and rapidly
than ever, they are induced to make the following unusual offer to those who obtain new subscribers:

To each person who sends one new name, with the pay in advance, 50 cents.

To one who sends three names, 75 cents each.

To one who sends five new names or over, $1 each.

--> Specimen copies sent free of charge. Send for a copy.

FIELD & CRAIGHEAD, Editors and Proprietors,

No. 5 BEEKMAN ST., NEW-YORK.

  The Causes of the Rebellion. Hon. F. P. Stanton,                   513
  Word-Murder,                                                       524
  Stewart, and the Dry Goods Trade of New York. W. Frothingham,      528
  Unheeded Growth, John Neal,                                        534
  Red, Yellow, and Blue,                                             535
  One of the Million. Caroline Cheesebro,                            541
  Las Oraciones. C. K. Tuckerman,                                    557
  A Merchant's Story. Edmund Kirke,                                  560
  The Union. Hon. Robert J. Walker,                                  572
  The Wolf Hunt. Chas. G. Leland,                                    580
  The Poetry of Nature. Chas. G. Leland,                             581
  Maccaroni and Canvas. Henry P. Leland,                             591
  The Proclamation. Chas. G. Leland,                                 603
  The Press in the United States. Hon. F. P. Stanton,                604
  Was He Successful? Richard B. Kimball,                             610
  Aurora. Horace Greeley,                                            622
  From Mount Lafayette, White Mountains,                             626
  The Homestead Bill.