The red wood-lily should be met among the great brakes of a sandy wood edge, where white leafless
wands of its cousin, star-grass, or colic root, wave above it, and the tall late meadow-rue
and white angelica fringe the background.

The Canada bell-lily needs the setting of meadow grasses to veil its long, stiff stalks, while
the Turk's-cap lily seems the most at home of all in garden surroundings, but it only gains
its greatest size in the deep meadows, where, without being wet, there is a certain moisture
beneath the deep old turf, and this turf itself not only keeps out frost, but moderates the
sun's rays in their transit to the ground.

Two lilies there are that, escaping from gardens, in many places have become half wild--the
brick-red, black-spotted tiger lily with recurved flowerets, after the shape of the Japanese
roseum, rubrum, and album, being also a native of Japan and China, and the tawny orange day
lily, that is found in masses about old cellars and waysides, with its tubular flowers, held
on leafless stems, springing from a matted bed of leaves. This day lily (hemerocallis fulva)
is sister to the familiar and showy lemon lily of old gardens (hemerocallis flava). If you
have plenty of room by your wall, I should lodge a few good bunches by it when you find some
in a location where digging is possible. It is a decorative flower, but hardly worthy of good
garden soil. The same may be said of the tiger lily, on account of the very inharmonious shade
of red it wears; yet if you have a half-wild nook, somewhere that a dozen bulbs of it may be
tucked in company with a bunch of the common tall white phlox that flowers at the same time,
you will have a bit of colour that will care for itself.

The lemon lily should have a place in the hardy border well toward the front row and be given
enough room to spread into a comfortable circle after the manner of the white plantain lily
(Funkia subcordata). This last lily, another of Japan's contributions to the hardy garden,
blooms from August until frost and unlike most of the lily tribe is pleased if well-rotted
manure is deeply dug into its resting-place.

As with humanity the high and lowly born are subject to the same diseases, so is it with the
lily tribe, and because you choose the sturdiest and consequently least expensive species for
your garden, do not think that you may relax your vigilance.

There is a form of fungous mould that attacks the bulbs of lilies without rhyme or reason and
is the insidious tuberculosis of the race. Botrytis cinerea is its name and it seizes upon
stalk and leaves in the form of spots that are at first yellow and then deepen in colour, until
finally, having sapped the vitality of the plant, it succumbs.

Cold, damp, insufficient protection in winter, all serve to render the lily liable to its attacks,
but the general opinion among the wise is that the universal overstimulation of lilies by fertilizers
during late years, especially of the white lilies used for church and other decorative purposes,
has undermined the racial constitution and made it prone to attacks of the enemy. Therefore,
if you please, Mary Penrose, sweet soil, sulphur, sand, and good winter covering, if you would
not have your lily bed a consumptives' hospital!

Some lilies are also susceptible to sunstroke. When growing in the full light and heat of the
sun, and the buds are ready to open, suddenly the flowers, leaves, and entire stalk will wither,
as when in spring a tulip collapses and we find that a meadow-mouse has nipped it in the core.
But with the lily the blight comes from above, and the only remedy is to plant in half shade.

On the other hand the whims of the flower require that this be done carefully, for if the scorching
sun is an evil, a soaking, sopping rain, coming at the height of the blooming season and dripping
from overhanging boughs, is equally so. The gold-and-copper pollen turns to rusty tears that
mar the petals of satin ivory or inlaid enamel, and a sickly transparency that bodes death
comes to the crisp, translucent flower!

"What a pother for a bed of flowers!" I hear you say, "draining, subsoiling, sulphuring, sanding,
covering, humouring, and then sunstroke or consumption at the end!" So be it, but when success
does come, it is something worth while, for to be successful with these lilies is "aiming the
star" in garden experience.

The plantain lilies and hemerocallis seem free from all of these whims and diseases, but it
is when we come to the lily-of-the-valley that we have the compensation for our tribulations
with the royal lilies of pure blood.

The lily-of-the-valley asks deep, very rich soil in the open sun; if a wall or hedge protects
it from the north, so much the better. I do not know why people preach dense shade for this
flower; possibly because they prefer leaves to flowers, or else that they are of the sheeplike
followers of tradition instead of practical gardeners of personal experience. One thing grows
to perfection in the garden of this commuter's wife, and that is lilies-of-the-valley, and
shade knows them not between eight in the morning and five at night, and we pick and pick steadily
for two weeks, for as the main bed gives out, there are strips here and there in cooler locations
that retard the early growth, but never any overhanging branches.

In starting a wholly new bed, as you are doing, it is best to separate the tangled roots into
small bunches, seeing to it that a few buds or "pips" remain with each, and plant in long rows
a foot apart, three rows to a four-foot bed. Be sure to bury a well-tarred plank a foot in
width edgewise at the outer side of the bed, unless you wish, in a couple of years' time, to
have this enterprising flower walk out and about the surrounding garden and take it for its
own. Be sure to press the roots in thoroughly and cover with three inches of soil.

In December cover the bed with rotten cow manure for several inches and rake off the coarser
part in April, taking care not to break the pointed "pips" that will be starting, and you will
have a forest of cool green leaves and such flowers as it takes much money to buy. Not the
first season, of course, but after that--forever, if you thin out and fertilize properly.

In the back part of your lily-of-the-valley bed plant two or three rows of the lovely poets'
narcissus (poeticus). It opens its white flowers of the "pheasant's eye" cup at the same time
as the lilies bloom, it grows sufficiently tall to make a good upward gradation, and it likes
to be let severely alone. But do not forget in covering in the fall to put leaves over the
narcissi instead of manure. Of other daffodils and narcissi that I have found very satisfactory,
besides the good mixtures offered by reliable houses at only a dollar or a dollar and a quarter
a hundred (the poets' narcissi only costing eighty cents a hundred for good bulbs), are Trumpet
Major, Incomparabilis, the old-fashioned "daffy," and the monster yellow trumpet narcissus,
Van Sion.

The polyanthus narcissi, carrying their many flowers in heads at the top of the stalk, are
what is termed half hardy and they are more frequently seen in florists' windows than in gardens.
I have found them hardy if planted in a sheltered spot, covered with slanted boards and leaves,
which should not be removed before April, as the spring rain and winds, I am convinced, do
more to kill the species than winter cold. The flowers are heavily fragrant, like gardenias,
and are almost too sweet for the house; but they, together with violets, give the garden the
opulence of odour before the lilacs are open, or the heliotropes that are to be perfumers-in-chief
in summer have graduated from thumb pots in the forcing houses.

Unless one has a large garden and a gardener who can plant and tend parterres of spring colour,
I do not set much value upon outdoor hyacinths; they must be lifted each year and often replaced,
as the large bulbs soon divide into several smaller ones with the flowers proportionately diminished.
To me their mission is, to be grown in pots, shallow pans, or glasses on the window ledge,
for winter and spring comforters, and I use the early tulips much in the same way, except for
a cheerful line of them, planted about the foundation of the house, that when in bloom seems
literally to lift home upon the spring wings of resurrection!

All my tulip enthusiasm is centred in the late varieties, and chief among these come the fascinating
and fantastic "parrots."

When next I have my garden savings-bank well filled, I am going to make a collection of these
tulips and guard them in a bed underlaid with stout-meshed wire netting, so that no mole may
leave a tunnel for the wicked tulip-eating meadow-mouse.

It is these late May-flowering tulips of long stalks, like wands of tall perennials, that you
can gather in your arms and arrange in your largest jars with a sense at once combined of luxury
and artistic joy.

Better begin as I did by buying them in mixture; the species you must choose are the bizarre,
bybloems, parrots, breeders, Darwin tulips, and the rose and white, together with a general
mixture of late singles. Five dollars will buy you fifty of each of the seven kinds, three
hundred and fifty bulbs all told and enough for a fine display. The Darwin tulips yield beautiful
shades of violet, carmine, scarlet, and brown; the bizarres, many curious effects in stripes
and flakes; the rose and white, delicate frettings and margins of pink on a white ground; but
the parrots have petals fringed, twisted, beaked, poised curiously upon the stalks, splashed
with reds, yellows, and green, and to come suddenly upon a mass of them in the garden is to
think for a brief moment that a group of unknown birds blown from the tropics in a forced migration
have alighted for rest upon the bending tulip stalks.

[A] F.H. Horsford of Charlotte, Vt., is very reliable in this matter.

XIV

FRAGRANT FLOWERS AND LEAVES

(Mary Penrose to Barbara Campbell)

Woodridge, August 26. The heliotrope is in the perfection of bloom and seems to draw perfume
from the intense heat of the August days only to release it again as the sun sets, while as
long as daylight lasts butterflies of all sizes, shapes, and colours are fluttering about the
flowers until the bed is like the transformation scene of a veritable dance of fairies!

Possibly you did not know that I have a heliotrope bed planted at the very last moment. I had
never before seen a great mass of heliotrope growing all by itself until I visited your garden,
and ever since I have wondered why more people have not discovered it. I think that I wrote
you anent hens that the ancient fowl-house of the place had been at the point where there was
a gap in the old wall below the knoll, and that the wind swept up through it from the river,
across the Opal Farm meadows, and into the windows of the dining room? The most impossible
place for a fowl-house, but exactly the location, as The Man from Everywhere suggested, for
a bed of sweet odours.

I expected to do nothing with it this season until one day Larry, the departed, in a desire
to use some of the domestic guano with which the rough cellar of the old building was filled,
carted away part of it, and supplying its place with loam, dug over and straightened out the
irregular space, which is quite six feet wide by thirty long.

The same day, on going to a near-by florist's for celery plants, I found that he had a quantity
of little heliotropes in excess of his needs, that had remained unpotted in the sand of the
cutting house, where they had spindled into sickly-looking weeds. In a moment of the horticultural
gambling that will seize one, I offered him a dollar for the lot, which he accepted readily,
for it was the last of June and the poor things would probably have been thrown out in a day
or two.

I took them home and spent a whole morning in separating and cutting off the spindling tops
to an even length of six inches. Literally there seemed to be no end to the plants, and when
I counted them I found that I had nearly a hundred and fifty heliotropes, which, after rejecting
the absolutely hopeless, gave me six rows for the bed.

For several weeks my speculation in heliotropes was a subject of much mirth between Bart and
myself, and the place was anything but a bed of sweet odours! The poor things lost the few
leaves they had possessed and really looked as if they had been haunted by the ghosts of all
the departed chickens that had gone from the fowl-house to the block. Then we had some wet
weather, followed by growing summer heat, and I did not visit the bed for perhaps a week or
more, when I rubbed my eyes and pinched myself; for it was completely covered with a mass of
vigorous green, riotous in its profusion, here and there showing flower buds, and ever since
it is one of the places to which I go to feast my eyes and nose when in need of garden encouragement!
Another year I shall plant the heliotrope in one of the short cross-walk borders of the old
garden, where we may also see it from the dining room, and use the larger bed for the more
hardy sweet things, as I shall probably never be able to buy so many heliotrope plants again
for so little money.

Now also I have a definite plan for a large border of fragrant flowers and leaves. I have been
on a journey, and, having spent three whole days from home, I am able for once to tell you
something instead of endlessly stringing questions together.

We also have been to the Cortrights' at Gray Rocks, and through a whiff of salt air, a touch
of friendly hands, much conversation, and a drive to Coningsby (a village back from the shore
peopled by the descendants of seafarers who, having a little property, have turned mildly to
farming), we have received fresh inspiration.

You did not overestimate the originality of the Cortrights' seaside garden, and even after
your intimate description, it contained several surprises in the shape of masses of the milkweeds
that flourish in sandy soil, especially the dull pink, and the orange, about which the brick-red
monarch butterflies were hovering in great flocks. Neither did you tell me of the thistles
that flank the bayberry hedge. I never realized what a thing of beauty a thistle might be when
encouraged and allowed room to develop. Some of the plants of the common deep purple thistle,
that one associates with the stunted growths of dusty roadsides, stood full five feet high,
each bush as clear cut and erect as a candelabrum of fine metal work, while another group was
composed of a pale yellow species with a tinge of pink in the centre set in very handsome silvery
leaves. I had never before seen these yellow thistles, but Lavinia Cortright says that they
are very plentiful in the dry ground back of the marshes, where the sand has been carried in
drifts both by wind and tide.

The table and house decorations the day that we arrived were of thistles blended with the deep
yellow blossoms of the downy false foxglove or Gerardia and the yellow false indigo that looks
at a short distance like a dwarf bush pea.

We drove to Coningsby, as I supposed to see some gay little gardens, fantastic to the verge
of awfulness, that had caught Aunt Lavinia's eye. In one the earth for the chief bed was contained
in a surf-boat that had become unseaworthy from age, and not only was it filled to the brim,
but vines of every description trailed over the sides.

A neighbour opposite, probably a garden rival of the owner of the boat but lacking aquatic
furniture, had utilized a single-seated cutter which, painted blue of the unmerciful shade
that fights with everything it approaches, was set on an especially green bit of side lawn,
surrounded by a heavy row of conch shells, and the box into which the seat had been turned,
as well as the bottom of the sleigh itself, was filled with a jumble of magenta petunias and
flame-coloured nasturtiums.

After we had passed down a village street a quarter of a mile long, bordered on either side
by floral combinations of this description, the sight began to pall, and I wondered how it
was possible that any flowers well watered and cared for could produce such a feeling of positive
aversion as well as eye-strained fatigue; also, if this was all that the Cortrights had driven
us many miles to see, when it was so much more interesting to lounge on either of the porches
of their own cottage, the one commanding the sea and the other the sand garden, the low dunes,
and the marsh meadows.

"It is only half a mile farther on," said Aunt Lavinia, quick to feel that we were becoming
bored, without our having apparently given any sign to that effect.

"It! What is it?" asked Bart, while I, without shame it is confessed, having a ravenous appetite,
through outdoor living, hoped that it was some quaint and neat little inn that "refreshed travellers,"
as it was expressed in old-time wording.

"How singular!" ejaculated Aunt Lavinia; "I thought I told you last night when we were in the
garden--well, it must have been in a dream instead. It is the garden of Mrs. Marchant, wholly
of fragrant things; it is on the little cross-road, beyond that strip of woods up there," and
she waved toward a slight rise in the land that was regarded as a hill of considerable importance
in this flat country.

"It does not contain merely a single bed of sweet odours like Barbara's and mine, but is a
garden an acre in extent, where everything admitted has fragrance, either in flower or leaf.
We chanced upon it quite by accident, Martin and I, when driving ourselves down from Oaklands,
across country, as it were, to Gray Rocks, by keeping to shady lanes, byways, and pent roads,
where it was often necessary to take down bars and sometimes verge on trespassing by going
through farmyards in order to continue our way.

"After traversing a wood road of unusual beauty, where everything broken and unsightly had
been carefully removed that ferns and wild shrubs might have full chance of life, we came suddenly
upon a white picket gate covered by an arched trellis, beyond which in the vista could be seen
a modest house of the real colonial time, set in the midst of a garden.

"At once we realized the fact that the lane was also a part of the garden in that it was evidently
the daily walk of some one who loved nature, and we looked about for a way of retracing our
steps. At the same moment two female figures approached the gate from the other side. At the
distance at which we were I could only see that one was tall and slender, was dressed all in
pure white, and crowned by a mass of hair to match, while the other woman was short and stocky,
and the way in which she opened the gate and held it back told that whatever her age might
be she was an attendant, though probably an intimate one.

"In another moment they discovered us, and as Martin alighted from the vehicle to apologize
for our intrusion the tall figure immediately retreated to the garden, so quickly and without
apparent motion that we were both startled, for the way of moving is peculiar to those whose
feet do not really tread the earth after the manner of their fellows; and before we had quite
recovered ourselves the stout woman had advanced and we saw by the pleasant smile her round
face wore that she was not aggrieved at the intrusion but seemed pleased to meet human beings
in that out-of-the-way place rather than rabbits, many of which had scampered away as we came
down the lane.

"Martin explained our dilemma and asked if we might gain the highway without retracing our
steps. The woman hesitated a moment, and then said, 'If you come through the gate and turn
sharp to the right, you can go out across the apple orchard by taking down a single set of
bars, only you'll have to lead your horse, sir, for the trees are set thick and are heavy laden.
I'd let you cross the bit of grass to the drive by the back gate yonder but that it would grieve
Mrs. Marchant to see the turf so much as pressed with a wheel; she'd feel and know it somehow,
even if she didn't see it.'

"'Mrs. Marchant! Not Mrs. Chester Marchant?' cried Martin, while the far-away echo of something
recalled by the name troubled the ears of my memory.

"'Yes, sir, the very same! Did you know Dr. Marchant, sir? The minute I laid eyes on you two
I thought you were of her kind!' replied the woman, pointing backward over her shoulder and
settling herself against the shaft and side of Brown Tom, the horse, as if expecting and making
ready for a comfortable chat.

"As she stood thus I could take a full look at her without intrusiveness. Apparently well over
sixty years old, and her face lines telling of many troubles, yet she had not a gray hair in
her head and her poise was of an independent landowner rather than an occupier of another's
home. I also saw at a glance that whatever her present position might be, she had not been
born in service, but was probably a native of local importance, who, for some reason perfectly
satisfactory to herself, was 'accommodating.'

"'Dr. Marchant, Dr. Russell, and I were college mates,' said Martin, briefly, 'and after he
and his son died so suddenly I was told that his widow was mentally ill and that none could
see her, and later that she had died, or else the wording was so that I inferred as much,'
and the very recollection seemed to set Martin dreaming. And I did not wonder, for there had
never been a more brilliant and devoted couple than Abbie and Chester Marchant, and I still
remember the shock of it when word came that both father and son had been killed by the same
runaway accident, though it was nearly twenty years ago.

"'She was ill, sir, was Mrs. Marchant; too ill to see anybody. For a long time she wouldn't
believe that the accident had happened, and when she really sensed it, she was as good as dead
for nigh five years. One day some of her people came to me--'twas the year after my own husband
died--and asked if I would take a lady and her nurse here to live with me for the summer. They
told me of her sickness and how she was always talking of some cottage in a garden of sweet-smelling
flowers where she had lived one happy summer with her husband and her boy, and they placed
the house as mine.

"'Her folks said the doctors thought if she could get back here for a time that it might help
her. Then I recollected that ten years before, when I went up to Maine to visit my sister,
I'd rented the place, just as it stood, to folks of the name of Marchant, a fine couple that
didn't look beyond each other unless 'twas at their son. In past times my grandmother had an
old-country knack of raising healing herbs and all sorts of sweet-smelling things, along with
farm truck, so that folks came from all about to buy them and doctors too, for such things
weren't sold so much in shops in those days as they are now, and so this place came to be called
the Herb Farm. After that it was sold off, little by little, until the garden, wood lane, and
orchard is about all that's left.

"'I was lonesome and liked the idea of company, and besides I was none too well fixed; yet
I dreaded a mournful widow that wasn't all there anyway, according to what they said, but I
thought I'd try. Well, sir, she come, and that first week I thought I'd never stand it, she
talked and wrung her hands so continual. But one day what do you think happened? I chanced
to pick a nosegay, not so much fine flowers perhaps as good-smelling leaves and twigs, and
put it in a little pitcher in her room.

"'It was like witchcraft the way it worked; the smell of those things seemed to creep over
her like some drugs might and she changed. She stopped moaning and went out into the garden
and touched all the posies with her fingers, as if she was shaking hands, and all of a sudden
it seemed, by her talk, as if her dead were back with her again; and on every other point she's
been as clear and ladylike as possible ever since, and from that day she cast off her black
clothes as if wearing 'em was all through a mistake.

"'The doctors say it's something to do with the 'sociation of smells, for that season they
spent in my cottage was the only vacation Dr. Marchant had taken in years, and they say it
was the happiest time in her life, fussing about among my old-fashioned posies with him; and
somehow in her mind he's got fixed there among those posies, and every year she plants more
and more of them, and what friends of hers she ever speaks of she remembers by some flowers
they wore or liked.

"'Well, as it turned out, her trustees have bought my place out and fixed it over, and here
we live together, I may say, both fairly content!

"'Come in and see her, won't you? It'll do no harm. Cortright, did you say your name was?'
and before we could retreat, throwing Brown Tom's loose check-rein across the pickets of the
gate, she led us to where the tall woman, dressed in pure white, stood under the trees, a look
of perfectly calm expectancy in the wonderful dark eyes that made such a contrast to her coils
of snow-white hair.

"'Cortright! Martin Cortright, is it not?' she said immediately, as her companion spoke the
surname. 'And your wife? I had not heard that you were married, but I remember you well, Lavinia
Dorman, and your city garden, and the musk-rose bush that ailed because of having too little
sun. Chester will be so sorry to miss you; he is seldom at home in the mornings, for he takes
long walks with our son. He is having the first entire half year's vacation he has allowed
himself since our marriage. But you will always find him in the garden in the afternoon; he
is so fond of fragrant flowers, and he is making new studies of herbs and such things, for
he believes that in spite of some great discoveries it will be proven that the old simples
are the most enduring medicines.'

"As she spoke she was leading the way, with that peculiar undulating progress, like a cloud
blown over the earth's surface, that I had noticed at first. Then we came out from under the
shade of the trees into the garden enclosure and I saw borders and beds, but chiefly borders,
stretching and curving everywhere, screening all the fences, approaching the house, and when
almost there retreating in graceful lines into the shelter of the trees. The growth had the
luxuriance of a jungle, and yet there was nothing weedy or awry about it, and as the breeze
blew toward us the combination of many odours, both pungent and sweet, was almost overpowering.

"'You very seldom wore a buttonhole flower, but when you did it was a safrano bud or else a
white jasmine,' Mrs. Marchant said, wheeling suddenly and looking at Martin with a gaze that
did not stop where he stood, but went through and beyond him; 'it was Dr. Russell who always
wore a pink! See! I have both here!' and going up to a tea-rose bush, grown to the size of
a shrub and lightly fastened to the side of the house, she gathered a few shell-like buds and
a moment later pulled down a spray of the jasmine vine that festooned a window, as we see it
in England but never here, and carefully cut off a cluster of its white stars by aid of a pair
of the long, slender flower-picking scissors that hung from her belt by a ribbon, twisted the
stems together, and placed them in Martin's buttonhole almost without touching it.

"Having done this, she seemed to forget us and drifted away among the flowers, touching some
gently as she passed, snipping a dead leaf here and arranging a misplaced branch there.

"We left almost immediately, but have been there many times since, and though as a whole the
garden is too heavily fragrant, I thought that it might suggest possibilities to you."

As Aunt Lavinia paused we were turning from the main road into the narrow but beautifully kept
lane upon which the Herb Farm, as it was still called, was located, by one of those strange
freaks that sometimes induces people to build in a strangely inaccessible spot, though quite
near civilization. I know that you must have come upon many such places in your wanderings.

Of course my curiosity was piqued, and I felt, besides, as if I was about to step into the
page of some strange psychological romance, nor was I disappointed.

The first thing that I saw when we entered was a great strip of heliotrope that rivalled my
own, and opposite it an equal mass of silvery lavender crowned by its own flowers, of the colour
that we so frequently use as a term, but seldom correctly. There were no flagged or gravel
walks, but closely shorn grass paths, the width of a lawn-mower, that followed the outline
of the borders and made grateful footing.

Bounding the heliotrope and lavender on one side was a large bed of what I at first thought
were Margaret carnations, of every colour combination known to the flower, but a closer view
showed that while those in the centre were Margarets, those of the wide border were of a heavier
quality both in build of plant, texture of leaf, and flower, which was like a compact greenhouse
carnation, the edges of the petals being very smooth and round, while in addition to many rich,
solid colours there were flowers of white-and-yellow ground, edged and striped and flaked with
colour, and the fragrance delicious and reminiscent of the clove pinks of May.

Mrs. Puffin, the companion, could tell us little about them except that the seed from which
they were raised came from England and that, as she put it, they were fussy, troublesome things,
as those sown one season had to be lifted and wintered in the cold pit and get just so much
air every day, and be planted out in the border again in April. Aunt Lavinia recognized them
as the same border carnations over which she had raved when she first saw them in the trim
gardens of Hampton Court. Can either you or Evan tell me more of them and why we do not see
them here? Before long I shall go garden mad, I fear; for after grooming the place into a generally
decorative and floriferous condition of trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, etc., will come the hunger
for specialties that if completely satisfied will necessitate not only a rosary, a lily and
wild garden, a garden--rather than simply a bed--of sweet odours, and lastly a garden wholly
for the family of pinks or carnations, whichever is the senior title. I never thought of these
last except as a garden incident until I saw their possibilities in Mrs. Marchant's space of
fragrant leaves and flowers.

The surrounding fences were entirely concealed by lilacs and syringas, interspersed with gigantic
bushes of the fragrant, brown-flowered strawberry shrub; the four gates, two toward the road,
one to the barn-yard, and one entering the wood lane, were arched high and covered by vines
of Wisteria, while similar arches seemed to bring certain beds together that would have looked
scattered and meaningless without them. In fact next to the presence of fragrant things, the
artistic use of vines as draperies appealed to me most.

The border following the fence was divided, back of the house, by a vine-covered arbour, on
the one side of which the medicinal herbs and simples were massed; on the other what might
be classed as decorative or garden flowers, though some of the simples, such as tansy with
its clusters of golden buttons, must be counted decorative.

The plants were never set in straight lines, but in irregular groups that blended comfortably
together. Mrs. Marchant was not feeling well, Mrs. Puffin said, and could not come out, greatly
to my disappointment; but the latter was only too glad to do the honours, and the plant names
slipped from her tongue with the ease of long familiarity.

This patch of low growth with small heads of purple flowers was broad-leaved English thyme;
that next, summer savory, used in cooking, she said. Then followed common sage and its scarlet-flowered
cousin that we know as salvia; next came rue and rosemary, Ophelia's flower of remembrance,
with stiff leaves. Little known or grown, or rather capricious and tender here, I take it,
for I find plants of it offered for sale in only one catalogue. Marigolds were here also, why
I do not know, as I should think they belonged with the more showy flowers; then inconspicuous
pennyroyal and several kinds of mints--spearmint, peppermint, and some great plants of velvet-leaved
catnip.

Borage I saw for the first time, also coriander of the aromatic seeds, and a companion of dill
of vinegar fame; and strangely enough, in rotation of Bible quotation, cumin and rue came next.

Caraway and a feathery mass of fennel took me back to grandmother's Virginia garden; balm and
arnica, especially when I bruised a leaf of the latter between my fingers, recalled the bottle
from which I soothe the Infant's childish bumps, the odour of it being also strongly reminiscent
of my own childhood.

Angelica spoke of the sweet candied stalks, but when we reached a spot of basil, Martin Cortright's
tongue was loosed and he began to recite from Keats; and all at once I seemed to see Isabella
sitting among the shadows holding between her knees the flower-pot from which the strangely
nourished plant of basil grew as she watered it with her tears.

A hedge of tall sunflowers, from whose seeds, Mrs. Puffin said, a soothing and nourishing cough
syrup may be made, antedating cod-liver oil, replaced the lilacs on this side, and with them
blended boneset and horehound; while in a springy spot back toward the barn-yard the long leaves
of sweet flag or calamus introduced a different class of foliage.

On the garden side the border was broken every ten feet or so with great shrubs of our lemon
verbena, called lemon balm by Mrs. Puffin. It seemed impossible that such large, heavily wooded
plants could be lifted for winter protection in the cellar, yet such Mrs. Puffin assured us
was the case. So I shall grow mine to this size if possible, for what one can do may be accomplished
by another,--that is the tonic of seeing other gardens than one's own. Between the lemon verbenas
were fragrant-leaved geraniums of many flavours--rose, nutmeg, lemon, and one with a sharp
peppermint odour, also a skeleton-leaved variety; while a low-growing plant with oval leaves
and half-trailing habit and odd odour, Mrs. Puffin called apple geranium, though it does not
seem to favour the family. Do you know it?

Bee balm in a blaze of scarlet made glowing colour amid so much green, and strangely enough
the bluish lavender of the taller-growing sister, wild bergamot, seems to harmonize with it;
while farther down the line grew another member of this brave family of horsemints with almost
pink, irregular flowers of great beauty.

