[528] Dr. Newman was graduated from Bowdoin College, the alma mater of General Howard, in 1867,
with the A.B. degree, receiving the A.M. in 1870 and D.D. in 1877. He studied theology at Andover,
finishing in 1871. He served as pastor in Taunton, Massachusetts, Ripon, Wisconsin and the
First Congregational Church of Washington, District of Columbia. He was president of Eastern
College, Fort Royal, Virginia, 1908-9, and Kee Mar College for Women, Hagerstown, Maryland,
1909-11. He is a member of a number of learned societies and a distinguished pulpit orator.

[529] President Taft considered the support of the University a national obligation. In his
address at the commencement exercises, May 26, 1909, he said, in part:

"Everything that I can do as an executive in the way of helping along the University I expect
to do. I expect to do it because I believe it is a debt of the people of the United States,
it is an obligation of the Government of the United States, and it is money constitutionally
applied to that which shall work out in the end the solution of one of the greatest problems
that God has put upon the people of the United States."

DOCUMENTS

WHAT THE FRAMERS OF THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION THOUGHT OF THE NEGRO

The first important discussion in the Convention of 1787 to reflect the attitude of the framers
of the Federal Constitution toward the Negro, was whether or not slaves should be considered
a part of the population in apportioning representation in Congress on that basis. A precedent
had been set in the Articles of Confederation in the provision for counting five slaves as
three whites to determine the rate of taxation on the population basis. (Ayes--7 noes--0.)[531]

     It was then moved and seconded so to alter the resolution that it
     should read

     Resolved that the rights of suffrage in the national legislature
     ought not to be according

     It was then moved and seconded to postpone the consideration of
     the last resolution--And, on the question to postpone, it passed
     in the affirmative The following resolution was then moved by Mr
     Madison seconded by Mr. G Morris.

     Resolved that the equality of suffrage established by the
     articles of confederation ought not to prevail in the national
     legislature and that an equitable ratio of representation ought
     to be substituted.

     It was moved and seconded to postpone the consideration of the
     last resolution.

     Mr King observed that the quotas of contribution which would
     alone remain as the measure of representation, would not answer;
     because waving every other view of the matter, the revenue might
     hereafter be so collected by the general Govt. that the sums
     respectively drawn from the States would (not) appear; and would
     besides be continually varying.

     Mr. Madison admitted the propriety of the observation, and that
     some better rule ought to be found.

     It was then moved that the Resolution be postponed, which was
     agreed to.

     Mr. Randolph and Mr. Madison then moved the following
     resolution--"that the rights of suffrage in the national
     Legislature ought to be proportioned."

     It was moved and 2ded to amend it by adding "and not according to
     the present system"--which was agreed to.

     It was then moved and 2ded. to alter the resolution so as to read
     "that the rights of suffrage in the national Legislature ought
     not to be according to the present system." This was 2ded. by Mr. Govr.
     Morris, (and being generally relished, would have been agreed to
     when,)

     Mr. Reed moved that the whole clause relating to the point of
     Representation be postponed; reminding the Come. that the
     deputies from Delaware were restrained by their commission from
     assenting to any change of the rule of suffrage, and in case a
     change should be fixed on, it might become their duty to retire
     from the Convention.

     Mr. Govr. Morris observed that the valuable assistance of those
     members could not be lost without real concern, and that so early
     a proof of discord in the convention as a secession of a State,
     would add much to the regret; that the change proposed was
     however so fundamental an article in a national Govt. that it
     could not be dispensed with.

     Mr. M(adison) observed that whatever reason might have existed
     for the equality of suffrage when the Union was a federal one
     among sovereign States, it must cease when a national Governt.
     should be put into the place. In the former case, the acts of
     Congs. depended so much for their efficacy on the cooperation of
     the States, that these had a weight both within & without
     Congress, nearly in proportion to their extent and importance. In
     the latter case, as the acts of the Genl. Govt. would take effect
     without the intervention of the State legislatures, a vote from
     a small State wd. have the same efficacy & importance as (a vote)
     from a large one, and there was the same reason for (different
     numbers) of representatives from different States, as from
     Counties of different extents within particular States. He
     suggested as an expedient for at once taking the sense of the
     members on this point and saving the Delaware deputies from
     embarrassment, that the question should be taken in Committee,
     and the clause on report to the House (be postponed without a
     question there). This however did not appear to satisfy Mr. Read.

     By several it was observed that no just construction of the Act
     of Delaware, could require or justify a secession of her
     deputies, even if the resolution were to be carried thro' the
     House as well as the Committee. It was finally agreed however
     that the clause should be postponed: it being understood that in
     the event the proposed change of representation would certainly
     be agreed to, no objection or difficulty being started from any
     other quarter (than from Delaware).

     The motion of Mr. Read to postpone being agreed to

     The Committee then rose. The chairman reported progress, and the
     House having resolved to resume the subject in Committee
     tomorrow,[532]

               (Adjourned to 10 OClock)

       *       *       *       *       *

The next question was on the following resolve:

     In substance that the mode of the present representation was
     unjust--the suffrage ought to be in proportion to number or
     property.

     To this Delaware objected, in consequence of the restrictions in
     their credentials, and moved to have the consideration thereof
     postponed, to which the house agreed.[533]

McHenry records for the thirtieth of May that the Committee then proceeded to consider the
second resolution in Mr. Randolph's paper.

     It was moved by Mr Wilson seconded by Mr C. Pinckney to postpone
     the consideration of the last motion in order to introduce the
     following words, after the words "equitable ratio of
     representation" namely.

     On the question to postpone

     it passed in the affirmative. (Ayes--10; noes--1.)

     On the question to agree to Mr Wilson's motion

     It passed in the affirmative (Ayes--9; noes--2.)

     It was then moved by Mr Wilson seconded by Mr Hamilton to adopt
     the following resolution, namely,

     "resolved that the right of suffrage in the second branch "of the
     national Legislature ought to be according to the rule
     "established for the first"

     Mr. Gerry thought property not the rule of representation.

     Mass: Con: N. Y. Pen: Maryd. Virga. N. C. S. C. and Geo: were in
     the affirmative: N. J. & Del: in the negative. (Ayes--9;
     noes--2.) Mr. Sherman moved that a question be taken whether each
     State shall have (one) vote in the 2d. branch. Every thing he
     said depended on this. The smaller States would never agree to
     the plan on any other principle (than an equality of suffrage in
     this branch. Mr. Ellsworth seconded the motion.) On the question
     for allowing each State (one) vote in the 2d. branch.

     Massts, no. Cont, ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay Md. ay.
     Va. no. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. (Ayes--5; noes--6.)

     (Mr. Wilson & Mr. Hamilton moved that the right of suffrage in
     the 2d. branch ought to be according to the same rule as in the
     1st. branch.)

     On this question for making the ratio of representation the same
     in the 2d. as in the 1st. branch (it passed in the affirmative:)
     Massts. ay. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md.
     no. Va. ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. (Ayes--6; noes--5.)[536]

On the same day

     Mr. Wilson was of opinion, and therefore moved, that the mode of
     representation of each of the states ought to be from the number
     of its free inhabitants, and of every other description three
     fifths to one free inhabitant. He supposed that the impost will
     not be the only revenue--the post office he supposes would be
     another substantial source of revenue. He observed further, that
     this mode had already received the approbation of eleven states
     in their acquiescence to the quota made by congress. He admitted
     that this resolve would require further restrictions, for where
     numbers determined the representation a census at different
     periods of 5, 7 or 10 years, ought to be taken.

     Mr. Gerry. The idea of property ought not to be the rule of
     representation. Blacks are property, and are used to the
     southward as horses and cattle to the northward; and why should
     their representation be increased to the southward on account of
     the number of slaves, than horses or oxen to the north?

     Mr. Madison was of opinion at present, to fix the standard of
     representation, and let the detail be the business of a
     sub-committee.

     Mr. Rutledge's motion was postponed.[537]

Discussing whether the apportionment should be according to taxation or numbers, Wilson considered

     Either Rule good--by Numbers best to ascertain the Right of
     Representn. this agreeably to the Sentiments of 11 States--Impost
     alone will not be sufficient to answer the national
     Exigencies--Revenues arising from Postage--The present Quota not
     a lasting Rule--People to be numbered at fixed Periods--A Rule
     arising from Property and Numbers--

     Gerry. Rule of Taxation not the Rule of Representation--4 might
     then have more Voices than ten--Slaves not to be put upon the
     Footing of freemen--Freemen of Massts. not to be put upon a
     Footing with the Slaves of other States--Horses and Cattle ought
     to have the Right of Representn. Negroes--Whites--[538]

On the thirteenth of June Randolph submitted another resolution agreed
to in the Committee of the Whole. The rule of apportioning Requis: on the States shall be the
     Whites 3/5 of all others--if the Req. is in arrear in any State,
     Congress shall have authority to devise & pass acts remedial in
     such case.

On the fifth of July the committee considering the question of representation reported on the
40,000 basis which repeatedly came before the Convention. It provided:

     That in the first branch of the legislature, each of the states
     now in the union, be allowed one member for every 40,000
     inhabitants, of the description reported in the seventh
     resolution of the committee of the whole house--That each state,
     not containing that number, shall be allowed one member.[541]

Reporting on this question the fifth of July, the Committee of the Whole decided to submit:

     That the subsequent propositions be recommended to the
     Convention, on condition that both shall be generally adopted. 2ndly That
     in the second Branch of the Legislature each State shall have an
     equal Veto.

Discussing this question on the sixth of July:

     Mr. Pinkney saw no good reason for committing. The value of land
     had been found on full investigation to be an impracticable rule.
     The contributions of revenue including imports & exports, must be
     too changeable in their amount; too difficult to be adjusted; and
     too injurious to the non-commercial States. The number of
     inhabitants appeared to him the only just & practicable rule. He
     thought the blacks ought to stand on an equality with whites: But
     wd.--agree to the ratio settled by Congs. He contended that
     Congs. had no right under the articles of Confederation to
     authorize the admission of new States; no such cases having been
     provided for.[542]

On the ninth of July, according to Madison, Mr. Gorham said:

     Some provision of this sort was necessary in the outset. The
     number of blacks & whites with some regard to supposed wealth
     was the general guide. Fractions could not be observed. The
     Legislre. is to make alterations from time to time as justice &
     propriety may require. Two objections prevailed agst. the rate of
     1 member for every 40,000 inhts. The 1st. was that the
     Representation would soon be too numerous: the 2d. that the
     Western States who may have a different interest, might if
     admitted on that principal by degrees, out-vote the Atlantic.
     Both these objections are removed. The number will be small in
     the first instance and maybe continued so, and the Atlantic
     States having ye Govt. in their own hands, may take care of their
     own interest by dealing out the right of Representation in safe
     proportions to the Western States. These were the views of the
     Committee.[543]

On the tenth of July the following interesting comment was made.

     Mr. Dayton observed that the line between the Northn. & Southern
     interest had been improperly drawn: that Pa. was the dividing
     State, there being six on each side of her.

     Genl. If the (Southn. States are to) supply money. The
     Northn. States are to spill their blood. Besides, the probable
     Revenue to be expected from the S. States has been greatly
     overrated.

     It was moved and seconded to strike out the words

     "three fifths of"

     which passed in the negative. (Ayes--3; noes--7.)

     It was moved and seconded to postpone the consideration of the
     resolution proposed in order to take up the following namely.

     Resolved That at the end of  years from the meeting of the
     Legislature of the United-States and at the expiration of every
      years thereafter the Legislature of the United States be
     required to apportion the representation of the several States
     according to the principles of their wealth and population.

     On the question to postpone, it passed in the negative (Ayes--5;
     noes--5;)

     It was moved and seconded to agree to the first clause of the
     resolution namely. Ayes--1; noes--9.)

     It was moved and seconded to agree to the following clause of the
     resolution, namely

     "and three fifths of the inhabitants of other description"

     which passed in the negative. (Ayes--0; noes--10.) and then the
     House adjourned till tomorrow at 11 o'clock A.M.[545]

Taking up the question, Mr. Williamson urged again on the eleventh of July the counting of
five Negroes as three white persons.

     Mr. Williamson was for making it the duty of the Legislature to
     do what was right & not leaving it at liberty to do or not do it.

     Mr. Ghorum.

     On Mr. Butlers motion for considering blacks as equal to Whites
     in the apportionment for Representation

     Massts. no. Cont. no. (N. Y. not on floor.) N. J. no. Pa. no.
     Del. ay. Md. No. (Va. no) N. C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. (Ayes--3;
     noes--7.)

     Mr. Govr. Morris said he had several objections to the
     proposition of Mr. Williamson. 1. It fettered the Legislature too
     much. 2. It would exclude some States altogether who would not
     have a sufficient number to entitle them to a single
     Representative. 3. His great objection was that the number of
     inhabitants was not a proper standard of wealth. The amazing
     difference between the comparative numbers & wealth of different
     Countries, renderd all reasoning superfluous on the subject.
     Numbers might with greater propriety be deemed a measure of
     strength, than of wealth, yet the late defence made by G. Britain
     agst. her numerous enemies proved in the clearest manner, that it
     is entirely fallacious even in this respect.

     Mr. King thought there was great force in the objections of Mr.
     Govr. Morris: he would however accede to the proposition for the
     sake of doing something.

     Mr. Rutlidge contended for the admission of wealth in the
     estimate by which Representation should be regulated. The Western
     States will not be able to contribute in proportion to their
     numbers, they shd. not therefore be represented in that
     proportion. The Atlantic States will not concur in such a plan.
     He moved that "at the end of  years after the 1st meeting of
     the Legislature, and of every  years thereafter, the
     Legislature shall proportion the Representation according to the
     principles of wealth & population"

     Mr. Sherman thought the number of people alone the best rule for
     measuring wealth as well as representation; and that if the
     Legislature were to be governed by wealth, they would be obliged
     to estimate it by numbers. He was at first for leaving the matter
     wholly to the discretion of the Legislature; but he had been
     convinced by the observations of (Mr. Randolph & Mr. Mason) that
     the periods & the rule of revising the Representation ought
     to be fixt by the Constitution

     Mr. Reid thought the Legislature ought not to be too much
     shackled. It would make the Constitution like Religious Creeds,
     embarrassing to those bound to conform to them & more likely to
     produce dissatisfaction and Scism, than harmony and union.

     Mr. Mason objected to Mr. Rutlidge motion, as requiring of the
     Legislature something too indefinite & impracticable, and leaving
     them a pretext for doing nothing.

     Mr. Wilson had himself no objection to leaving the Legislature
     entirely at liberty. But considered wealth as an impracticable
     rule.

     Mr. Ghorum. If the Convention who are comparatively so little
     biased by local views are so much perplexed, How can it be
     expected that the Legislature hereafter under the full biass of
     those views, will be able to settle a standard. He was convinced
     by the argument of others & his own reflections, that the
     Convention ought to fix some standard or other.

     Mr. Govr. Morris. The argts. of others & his own reflections had
     led him to a very different conclusion. If we can't agree on a
     rule that will be just at this time, how can we expect to find
     one that will be just in all times to come. Surely those who come
     after us will judge better of things present, than we can of
     things future. He could not persuade himself that numbers would
     be a just rule at any time. Two objections had been raised agst. leaving the
     adjustment of the Representation from time to time, to the
     discretion of the Legislature.[548]

The question of counting three-fifths of the Negroes as whites,
however, would not down. He said that in Massts. estimates had been taken in the
     different towns, and that persons had been curious enough to
     compare these estimates with the respective numbers of people;
     and it had been found even including Boston, that the most exact
     proportion prevailed between numbers and property. Morris). But he differed from him in
     thinking numbers of inhabts. so incorrect a measure of wealth. He
     had seen the Western settlemts. of Pa. and on a comparison of
     them with the City of Philada. could discover little other
     difference, than that property was more unequally divided among
     individuals here than there. Taking the same number in the
     aggregate in the two situations he believed there could be little
     difference in their wealth and ability to contribute to the
     public wants.

     Mr. Govr.

     It was moved and seconded to postpone the consideration of the
     first clause in the report from the first grand Committee

     which passed in the affirmative. A distinction had been set
     up & urged between the Nn. & Southn. If the Southn. & middle States will have agst. this danger.

     Sect. 3. Before the Maryland convention
called to ratify the constitution Luther Martin said:

     S: 2. Slaves ought never to be considered in Representation,
     because they are property. Surprise, did I say? I ought rather to have
     said, my extreme astonishment, at the assertion I heard made on
     both floors of Congress, that, in forming the Constitution of the
     United States, and particularly that part of it which respects
     the representation on this floor, the Northern and Eastern
     States, or, as they are now called, the non-slaveholding States,
     have made a great concession to the Southern in granting them a
     representation of three-fifths of their slaves; that they saw the
     concession was a very great and important one at the time, but
     that they had no idea it would so soon have proved itself of such
     consequence; that it would so soon have proved itself to be by
     far the most important concession that had been made. They say,
     that it was wrung from them by their affection to the Union, and
     their wish to preserve it from dissolution or disunion; that they
     had, for a long time, lamented they had made it; and that, if it
     was to do over, no earthly consideration should again tempt them
     to agree to so unequal and so ruinous a compromise....

     It was, sir, for the purpose of correcting this great and
     unpardonable error; unpardonable, because it is a wilful one, and
     the error of it is well known to the ablest of those who make it;
     of denying the assertion, and proving that the contrary is the
     fact, and that the concession, on that occasion, was from the
     Southern and the Northern States, that, among others, I have
     risen.

     It is of the greatest consequence that the proof I am about to
     give should be laid before this nation; for, as the inequality of
     representation is the great ground on which the Northern and
     Eastern States have always, and now more particularly and
     forcibly than ever, raised all their complaints on this subject,
     if I can show and prove that they have not even a shadow of right
     to make pretences or complaints; that they are as fully
     represented as they ought to be; while, we, the Southern members,
     are unjustly deprived of any representation for a large and
     important part of our population, more valuable to the Union, as
     can be shown, than any equal number of inhabitants in the
     Northern and Eastern States, can, from their situation, climate,
     and productions, possibly be. If I can prove this, I think I
     shall be able to show most clearly the true motives which have
     given rise to this measure; to strip the thin, the cobweb veil
     from it, as well as the pretended ones of religion, humanity, and
     love of liberty; and to show, to use the soft terms the decorum
     of debate oblige me to use, the extreme want of modesty in those
     who are already as fully represented here as they can be, to go
     the great lengths they do in endeavoring, by every effort in
     their power, public and private, to take from the Southern and
     Western States, which are already so greatly and unjustly
     deprived of an important part of the representation, a still
     greater share; to endeavor to establish the first precedent,
     which extreme rashness and temerity have ever presumed, that
     Congress has a right to touch the question and legislate on
     slavery; thereby shaking the property in them, in the Southern
     and Western States, to its very foundation, and making an attack
     which, if successful, must convince them that the Northern and
     Eastern States are their greatest enemies; that they are
     preparing measures for them which even Great Britain in the heat
     of the Revolutionary War, and when all her passions were roused
     by hatred and revenge to the highest pitch never ventured to
     inflict upon them.

     In considering this article, I will detail, as far as at this
     distant period is possible, what was the intention of the
     Convention that formed the Constitution in this article. The
     intention was, to give Congress a power, after the year 1808, to
     prevent the importation of slaves either by land or water from
     other countries. The word import, includes both, and applies
     wholly to slaves. Without this limitation Congress might have
     stopped it sooner under their general power to regulate commerce;
     and it was an agreed point, a solemnly understood compact, that,
     on the Southern States consenting to shut their ports against the
     importation of Africans, no power was to be delegated to
     Congress, nor were they ever to be authorized to touch the
     question of slavery; that the property of the Southern States in
     slaves was to be as sacredly preserved, and protected to them, as
     that of land, or any other kind of property in the Eastern States
     were to be to their citizens.

     The term, or word, migration, applies wholly to free whites; in
     its Constitutional sense, as intended by the Convention, it means
     "voluntary change of servitude," from one country to another. The
     reasons of its being adopted and used in the Constitution, as far
     as I can recollect, were these; that the Constitution being a
     frame of government, consisting wholly of delegated powers, all
     power, not expressly delegated, being reserved to the people or
     the States, it was supposed, that, without some express grant to
     them of power on the subject, Congress would not be authorized
     ever to touch the question of migration hither, or emigration to
     this country, however pressing or urgent the necessity for such a
     measure might be; that they could derive no such power from the
     usages of nations, or even the laws of war; that the latter would
     only enable them to make prisoners of alien enemies, which would
     not be sufficient, as spies or other dangerous emigrants, who
     were not alien enemies, might enter the country for treasonable
     purposes, and do great injury; that, as all governments possessed
     this power, it was necessary to give it to our own, which could
     alone exercise it, and where, on other and much greater points,
     we had placed unlimited confidence; it was, therefore, agreed
     that, in the same article, the word migration should be placed;
     and that, from the year 1808, Congress should possess the
     complete power to stop either or both, as they might suppose the
     public interest required; the article, therefore, is a negative
     pregnant, restraining for twenty years, and giving the power
     after.

     The reasons for restraining the power to prevent migration hither
     for twenty years, were, to the best of my recollections, these;
     That, as at this time, we had immense and almost immeasurable
     territory, peopled by not more than two millions and a half of
     inhabitants, it was of very great consequence to encourage the
     emigration of able, skilful, and industrious Europeans. The wise
     conduct of William Penn, and the unexampled growth of
     Pennsylvania, were cited. It was said, that the portals of the
     only temple of true freedom now existing on earth should be
     thrown open to all mankind; that all foreigners of industrious
     habits should be welcome, and none more so than men of science,
     and such as may bring to us arts we are unacquainted with, or the
     means of perfecting those in which we are not yet sufficiently
     skilled--capitalists whose wealth may add to our commerce or
     domestic improvements; let the door be ever and most
     affectionately open to illustrious exiles and sufferers in the
     cause of liberty; in short, open it liberally to science, to
     merit, and talents, wherever found, and receive and make them
     your own. That the safest mode would be to pursue the course for
     twenty years, and not, before that period, put it at all into the
     power of Congress to shut it; that, by that time, the Union would
     be so settled, and our population would be so much increased, we
     could proceed on our own stock, without the farther accession of
     foreigners; that as Congress were to be prohibited from stopping
     the importation of slaves to settle the Southern States, as no
     obstacles was to be thrown in the way of their increase and
     settlement for that period, let it be so with the Northern and
     Eastern, to which, particularly New York and Philadelphia it was
     expected most of the emigrants would go from Europe: and it so
     happened, for, previous to the year 1808, more than double as
     many Europeans emigrated to these States, as of Africans were
     imported into the Southern States.

       *       *       *       *       *

Connecting the question of importing slaves with that of counting them to determine the representation
in the national legislature, the framers engaged in a heated debate as to whether or not the
Southern States would always have a majority in that body by encouraging the slave trade. Carolina
and Georgia, however, stood firm for the right to import slaves. States think proper to admit)

     No Tax or Duty shall be laid by the Legislature, on Articles
     exported from any State; nor on the emigration or importation of
     such Persons as the several States shall think proper to admit;
     nor shall such emigration or importation be prohibited.

     No Capitation Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the
     Census herein before directed to be taken. System?
     1. defence agst. foreign invasion. He
     never could agree to let them be imported without limitation &
     then be represented in the Natl.

     Mr. Govr.

     N. H.--no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no.
     Va. no. S. C. no. N. C. no. Geo. no. (Ayes--1; noes--10.)[561]

            *       *       *       *       *

     Luther Martin (some days thereafter), proposed to vary the sect:
     4. art VII so as to allow a prohibition or tax on the importation
     of slaves,

     1. As five slaves are to be counted as 3 free men in the
     apportionment of Representatives; such a clause wd. leave an
     encouragement to this traffic. This infernal trafic originated in the avarice of
     British Merchants. N.
     Carolina had done the same in substance. And the abolition has already taken place in
     Massachusetts. As to the danger of insurrection from foreign
     influence, that will become a motive to kind treatment of the
     slaves.
     If the S. States were let alone they will probably of themselves
     stop importations. If
     Engd. He could not believe that the Southn. Government. & middle States.

     Mr. Langdon was strenuous for giving the power to the Genl Govt.

     Genl.

     Mr. Rutlidge. Pinkney for a commitment.

     Mr. Govr. 4 & 5.
     of art: 7. N. H. no. Mas. abst. Cont. ay N. J. ay Pa. no. Del. no
     Maryd. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay S. C. ay. Geo. ay. Geo. ay. (Ayes--7;
     noes--3; absent--1.)

     Mr. Pinkney & Mr. Langdon moved to commit sect.

     The 4 sect promitting the importation of Slaves gave rise to much
     desultory debate.

     Every 5 slaves counted in representation as one elector without
     being equal in point of strength to one white inhabitant.

     This gave the slave States an advantage in representation over
     the others.

     The slaves were moreover exempt from duty on importation.

     They served to render the representation from such States
     aristocratical.

     It was replied--That the population or increase of slaves in
     Virginia exceeded their calls for their services--That a
     prohibition of Slaves into S. Carolina Georgia etc--would be a
     monopoly in their favor. These States could not do without
     Slaves--Virginia etc would make their own terms for such as they
     might sell.

     Such was the situation of the country that it could not exist
     without slaves--That they could confederate on no other
     condition.

     They had enjoyed the right of importing slaves when colonies.

     They enjoyed it as States under the confederation--And if they
     could not enjoy it under the proposed government, they could not
     associate or make a part of it.

     On the motion; (which passed in the affirmative.) N--H ay. Mas.
     ay--Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. no Del--no. Md. ay. Va. no. N--C. ay.
     S--C. ay. Geo. ay. (Ayes--7; noes--4.)

     Mr. Govr. Morris was for making the clause read at once,
     "importation of slaves into N. Carolina, S--Carolina & Georgia." Morris withdrew his motion. N. H.
     Mas. Con.

     Genl.

     Sect 5--art--VII was agreed to nem: con: as reported.

     Sect 6. art. VII. in the Report was, postponed.

     (64). If we go on to the fifth article,
     we shall find the first and fifth clauses of the ninth section of
     the first article restrained from being altered before the year
     1808.[574]

According to George Mason's Account:

     The constn as agreed to till a fortnight before the convention
     rose was such a one as he wd have set his hand & heart to....
     with respect to the importn of slaves it was left to Congress,
     this disturbed the 2 Souther-most states who knew that Congress
     would immediately suppress the importn of slaves, those 2 states
     therefore struck up a bargain with the 3. N. Engld, states, if
     they would join to admit slaves for some years, the 2
     Southernmost states wd join in changing the clause which required
     2/3 of the legislature in any vote. It was done, these articles
     were changed accordingly, & from that moment the two S. states
     and the 3 Northern ones joined Pen. Jers. & Del. & made the
     majority 8. to 3. against us instead of 8. to 3. for us as it had
     been thro' the whole Convention. under this coalition the great
     principles of the Constn were changed in the last days of the
     Convention.[575]

The following debate on this subject took place in the House of Representatives, June 16-20, 1798:

     Mr. B(aldwin). thought the 9th section, forbidding Congress to
     prohibit the migration, &c., was directly opposed to the
     principles of this bill. He recollected very well that when the
     9th section of the Constitution was under consideration in the
     Convention, the delegates from some of the Southern States
     insisted that the prohibition of the introduction of slaves
     should be left to the State Governments; it was found expedient
     to make this provision in the Constitution; there was an
     objection to the use of the word slaves, as Congress by none of
     their acts had ever acknowledged the existence of such a
     condition. It was at length settled on the words as they now
     stand, "that the migration or importation of such persons as the
     several States shall think proper to admit, should not be
     prohibited till the year 1808." It was observed by some
     gentlemen present that this expression would extend to other
     persons besides slaves, which was not denied, but this did not
     produce any alteration of it....

     Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) commenced his observations with
     declaring that he should not have risen on this occasion, if no
     allusion had been made to the proceedings in the Federal
     Convention which framed the Constitution of the United States, or
     if the representation which was given of what passed in that
     body, had been a perfectly correct and candid one. He
     could only ascribe either to absolute forgetfulness, or to
     willful misrepresentation, the assertion of the member from
     Georgia, that it was understood and intended by the General
     Convention that the article in question should extend to the
     importation or introduction of citizens from foreign countries.
     As that gentleman and himself were the only two members of the
     House of Representatives who had the honor of a seat in that
     body, he deemed it his indispensable duty to correct the
     misstatement that had thus been made. He did not therefore,
     hesitate to say, in direct contradiction to this novel
     construction of the article (made as it would seem to suit the
     particular purposes of the opponents of the Alien bill) that the
     proposition itself was originally drawn up and moved in the
     Convention, by the deputies from South Carolina, for the express
     purpose of preventing Congress from interfering with the
     introduction of slaves into the United States, within the time
     specified. He recollected also, that in the discussion of its
     merits no question arose, or was agitated respecting the
     admission of foreigners but, on the contrary, that it was
     confined simply to slaves, and was first voted upon and carried
     with that word expressed in it, which was afterwards upon
     reconsideration changed for 'such persons,' as it now stands,
     upon the suggestion of one of the Deputies from Connecticut. The
     sole reason assigned for changing it was, that it would be better
     not to stain the Constitutional code with such a term, since it
     could be avoided by the introduction of other equally
     intelligible words, as had been done in the former part of the
     same instrument, where the same sense was conveyed by the
     circuitous expression of 'three fifths of all other persons.'
     Mr. Dayton said that at that time he was far from believing, and
     that indeed until the present debate arose, he had never heard,
     that any one member supposed that the simple change of the term
     would enlarge the construction of this prohibitory provision, as
     it was now contended for. If it could have been conceived to be
     really liable to such interpretation, he was convinced that it
     would not have been adopted, for it would then carry with it a
     strong injunction upon Congress to prohibit the introduction of
     foreigners into newly erected States immediately, and into the
     then existing States after the year 1808, as it undoubtedly does,
     that of slaves after that period....

     Mr. Baldwin ... observed that he was yesterday obliged to leave
     the House a little before adjournment, and he had understood
     that, in his absence, the remarks which he had made on that point
     a few days ago, in Committee of the Whole, had been controverted,
     and that it had been done with some degree of harshness and
     personal disrespect. What he had before asserted was, that the
     clause respecting migration and importation was not considered at
     the time when it passed in the Convention as confined entirely to
     the subject of slaves. He spoke with the more confidence on this
     point, as there was scarcely one to which his attention had been
     so particularly called at the time. In making the Federal
     Constitution, when it was determined that it should be a
     Government possessing Legislative powers, the delegates from the
     two Southern States, of which he was one, were so fully persuaded
     that those powers would be used to the destruction of their
     property in slaves, that for some time they thought it would not
     be possible for them to be members of it: to that interesting
     state of the subject he had before alluded. In the progress of
     the business, other obstacles occurring, which he need not
     repeat, it was concluded to give to the delegates of those States
     the offer of preparing a clause to their own minds, to secure
     that species of property. He well remembered that when the clause
     was first prepared, it differed in two respects from the form in
     which it now stands. It used the word "slaves" instead of
     "migration", or "importation," or persons, and instead of "ten
     dollars," it was expressed "five percent ad valorem on their
     importation," which it was supposed would be about the average
     rate of duties under this Government. Several persons had
     objections to the use of the word "slaves, as Congress had
     hitherto avoided the use of it in their acts, and not
     acknowledged the existence of such a condition. It was expressly
     observed at the time, that making use of the form of expression
     as it now stands, instead of the word slaves, would make the
     meaning more general, and include what we now consider as
     included; this did not appear to be denied, but still it was
     preferred in its present form. He had more confidence than common
     in his recollection on this point, for the reasons which he had
     before stated. He gave it as the result of his very clear
     recollection. Any other member of that body was doubtless at
     liberty to say he did not recollect it. Still that would not
     diminish the confidence he felt on this occasion....[576]

In a letter to Robert Walsh November 27, 1817, Madison said:

     Your letter of the 11th was duly recd, and I should have given it
     a less tardy answer, but for a succession of particular demands
     on my attention, and a wish to assist my recollections, by
     consulting both manuscript & printed sources of information on
     the subjects of your enquiry. Of these, however, I have not been
     able to avail myself, but very partially.

     As to the intention of the framers of the Constitution in the
     clause relating to "the migration and importation of persons &c"
     the best key may perhaps be found in the case which produced it.
     The African trade in slaves had long been odious to most of the
     States, and the importation of slaves into them had been
     prohibited. Particular States however continued the importation,
     and were extremely adverse to any restriction on their power to
     do so. In the Convention the former States were anxious, in
     framing a new constitution, to insert a provision for an
     immediate and absolute stop to the trade. The latter were not
     only averse to any interference on the subject; but solemnly
     declared that their constituents would never accede to a
     constitution containing such an article. Out of this conflict
     grew the middle measure providing that Congress should not
     interfere until the year 1808; with an implication, that after
     that date, they might prohibit the importation of slaves into the
     States then existing, & previous thereto, into the States not
     then existing. Such was the tone of opposition in the States of
     S. Carolina & Georgia, & such the desire to gain their
     acquiescence in a prohibitory power, that on a question between
     the epochs of 1800 & 1808, the States of N. Hampshire, Massatts,
     & Connecticut, (all the eastern States in the convention); joined
     in the vote for the latter, influenced by the collateral motive
     of reconciling those particular States to the power over commerce
     & navigation; against which they felt, as did some other States,
     a very strong repugnance. The earnestness of S. Carolina &
     Georgia was further manifested by their insisting on the security
     in the V. article against any amendment to the Constitution
     affecting the right reserved to them, & their uniting with the
     small states who insisted on a like security for their equality
     in the Senate.

     But some of the States were not only anxious for a constitutional
     provision against the introduction of Slaves. They had scruples
     against admitting the term "Slaves" into the Instrument. Hence
     the descriptive phrase "migration or importation of persons"; the
     term migration allowing those who were scrupulous of
     acknowledging expressly a property in human beings, to view
     imported persons as a species of emigrants, whilst others might
     apply the term to foreign malefactors sent or coming into the
     country. It is possible tho' not recollected, that some might
     have had an eye to the case of freed blacks, as well as
     malefactors.

     But whatever may have been intended by the term "migration" or
     the term "persons", it is most certain, that they referred,
     exclusively, to a migration or importation from other countries
     into the U. States; and not to a removal, voluntary or
     involuntary, of Slaves or freemen, from one to another part of
     the U. States. Nothing appears or is recollected that warrants
     this latter intention. Nothing in the proceedings of the State
     conventions indicate such a construction there. The proposition happily was rejected. One gentlemen tells us,
     it was intended to prevent slaves from being brought in by land;
     another gentleman says, it was intended to restrain Congress from
     interfering with emigration from Europe.

     These constructions cannot both be right. The gentlemen who have
     preceded me on the same side, have advanced a number of pertinent
     arguments to settle the proper meaning of these words. I, sir,
     shall not repeat them. Indeed, to me, there is nothing more dry
     and uninteresting, than discussions to explain the meaning of
     single words. In the present case, I will only refer to the
     authority of Mr. Madison and Judge Wilson, who were both members
     of the Convention, and who gave their construction to these
     words, long before this question was agitated. Mr. Madison
     observes, that, to say this clause was intended to prevent
     emigration does not deserve an answer. And Judge Wilson says,
     expressly, it was intended to place the new States under the
     control of Congress, as to the introduction of slaves. The
     opinion of this latter gentleman is entitled to peculiar weight.
     After the Convention had labored for weeks on the subject of
     representation and direct taxes--when those great men were like
     to separate without obtaining their object, Judge Wilson
     submitted the provision on this subject, which now stands as a
     part of your Constitution. Sir, there is no man, from any part of
     the nation, who understood the system of our Government better
     than him; not even excepting Virginia, from whence the gentleman
     from Georgia (Mr. Walker) tells us, we have all our great
     men.[578]

Madison wrote on the same question that year in a letter to Monroe:

     I have been truly astonished at some of the doctrines and
     declarations to which the Missouri question has led; and
     particularly so at the interpretation put on the terms "migration
     or importation &c." Judging from my own impressions I shd. deem
     it impossible that the memory of any one who was a member of the
     Genl. Convention, could favor an opinion that the terms did not
     exclusively refer to migration & importation, into the U. S.
     Had they been understood in that Body in the sense now put on
     them, it is easy to conceive the alienation they would have there
     created in certain States: and no one can decide better than
     yourself the effect they would had in the State conventions, if
     such a meaning had been avowed by the advocates of the
     Constitution. If a suspicion had existed of such a construction,
     it wd. at least have made a conspicuous figure among the
     amendments proposed to the Instrument.[579]

There was very little objection to the provision for the return of fugitive slaves.

[531] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 31-32.

[532] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 35-38.

[533] Ibid., I, pp. 39-40.

[534] Records of the Federal Convention, I, p. 40.

[535] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 152-153.

[536] Ibid., I, pp. 200-202.

[537] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 205-206.

[538] Ibid., p. 208.

[539] Records of the Federal Convention, I, p. 227.

[540] Ibid., I, p. 243.

[541] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 523, 524.

[542] Ibid., I. p. 542.

[543] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 559-560.

[544] Ibid., I, p. 567.

[545] Records of the Federal Convention, pp. 575-576.

[546] Ibid., I, p. 579.

[547] Ibid., pp. 580-583.

[548] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 580-583.

[549] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 586-588.

[550] Records of the Federal Convention, I, pp. 589-590.

[551] Records of the Federal Convention, pp. 603--605.

[552] Ibid., II, p. 168.

[553] Records of the Federal Convention, pp. 182-183.

[554] Dickenson thought that unless the number of representatives given the large States was
reduced the smaller ones would be encouraged to import slaves.

Art: VII. sect. 3. resumed.--Mr. Dickenson moved to postpone this in order to reconsider Art:
Iv. sect. Records of the Federal Convention, II, 356, 570, 590.

[555] Ibid., III, p. 253.

[556] Ibid., III., pp. 155-156.

[557] Records of the Federal Convention, III, p. 333.

[558] Ibid., III, pp. 342-343.

[559] Records of the Federal Convention, II, p. 95.

[560] Records of the Federal Convention, p. 183.

[561] Records of the Federal Convention, II, pp. 220-221.

[562] Records of the Federal Convention, II, pp. 364-365.

[563] Records of the Federal Convention, II, pp. 369-375.

[564] Ibid., II, p. 378.

[565] Records of the Federal Convention, II, pp. 415-417.

[566] Maryland Historical Magazine, December, 1909.

[567] McMaster and Stone, Pennsylvania and the Federal Constitution, pp. 311-313.

[568] P. L. Ford, Essay on the Convention, pp. 161-166.

[569] Records of the Federal Convention, III, pp. 210-213.

[570] Elliot, Debates, IV, pp. 277-286.

[571] Robertson, Debates of the Convention of Virginia, pp. 321-345.

[572] Annals of Congress, 1st session, I, pp. 339-340.

[573] Elliot, Debates, IX, pp. 72-104.

[574] Annals of Congress, 1st session, II, pp. 1200-1201.

[575] Records of the Federal Convention, III, p. 367.

[576] Annals of Congress, Fifth Cong., 2d Session, II, pp. 1660, 1968-2005.

[577] Documentary History of the Constitution, V, pp. 303-306.

[578] Annals of Congress, Sixteenth Cong., 1st Session, I, pp, 202-203.

[579] Documentary History of the Constitution, V, p. 307.

[580] Records of the Federal Convention, II, p. 446.

[581] Ibid., pp. 453-454.

[582] Ibid., pp. 601-602.

[583] Records of the Federal Convention, II, p. 607.

[584] Ibid., p. 628.

[585] Ibid., p. 662.

SOME UNDISTINGUISHED NEGROES

PATRICK SNEAD.--Among the most interesting of all fugitive slaves who escaped into Canada was
Patrick Snead of Savannah, Georgia. He was as white as his master, but was born a slave. Upon
the death of his first master he fell into the hands of one of the sons who died when Snead
was about fifteen. His next master was a rather reckless man. Snead's master always promised
the slave's mother to give him his freedom as soon as the boy could take care of himself, but
this was never done. Snead was sent to school a little by his mother so that he could spell
quite well. He had no religious training but was allowed to attend a Sunday school for colored
children. Upon approaching manhood Snead was put to the cooper's trade, which he learned in
five years.

Up to this time Snead had fared well, but at length his master fell sick and died without freeing
the slave according to his promise. Snead was then sold to pay the fees of his master's physician,
who later sold him to a wholesale merchant for $500. In the service of this merchant Snead
proved to be a much smarter man than many of those who worked with him. In later years, however,
he had to work so hard as to injure his health to the extent that he suffered considerably.
Moreover, Snead was never allowed any money and was restricted in his social contact with the
people of his group in other parts of the community.

He was later sold to another master, being given in exchange for a woman, two children and
$100. He was still employed in the cooper's trade. Required to make only 18 barrels a week
and capable of making more than twice as many, he began to receive an income of his own under
the good treatment of his last master. During this period, however, his desire for liberty
grew stronger and stronger because of the hardships of his people and then he heard of their
opportunities in the free States and in Liberia. He, therefore, made his escape in July, 1851,
and reached Canada in safety. After remaining two years in Canada he decided to enter the employ
of the proprietor of the Cataract House on the American side of Niagara Falls. What happened
then is best told in his own language. He says:

"Then a constable of Buffalo came in, on Sunday after dinner, and sent the barkeeper into the
dining-room for me. I went into the hall, and met the constable,--I had my jacket in my hand,
and was going to put it up. He stepped up to me. 'Here, Watson,' (this was the name I assumed
on escaping,) 'you waited on me, and I'll give you some change.' His fingers were then in his
pocket, and he dropped a quarter dollar on the floor. I told him, 'I have not waited on you--you
must be mistaken in the man, and I don't want another waiter's money.' He approached,--I suspected,
and stepped back toward the dining-room door. By that time he made a grab at me, caught me
by the collar of my shirt and vest,--then four more constables, he had brought with him, sprung
on me,--they dragged me to the street door--there was a jamb--I hung on by the doorway. The
head constable shackled my left hand. I had on a new silk cravat twice around my neck; he hung
on to this, twisting it till my toungue lolled out of my mouth, but he could not start me through
the door. By this time the waiters pushed through the crowd,--there were three hundred visitors
there at the time,--and Smith and Graves, colored waiters, caught me by the hands,--then the
others came on, and dragged me from the officers by main force. They dragged me over chairs
and everything, down to the ferry way. I got into the cars, and the waiters were lowering me
down, when the constables came and stopped them, saying, 'Stop that murderer!'--they called
me a murderer! Then I was dragged down the steps by the waiters, and flung into the ferry boat.
The boatmen rowed me to within fifty feet of the Canada shore--into Canada water--when the
head boatman in the other boat gave the word to row back. They did accordingly,--but they could
not land me at the usual place on account of the waiters. So they had to go down to Suspension
Bridge; they landed me, opened a way through the crowd--shackled me, pushed me into a carriage,
and away we went. The head constable then asked me 'if I knew any person in Lockport.' I told
him 'no,' Then, 'In Buffalo?' 'No.' 'Well then,' said he, 'let's go to Buffalo--Lockport is
too far.' We reached Buffalo at ten o'clock at night, when I was put in jail. I told the jailer
I wished he would be so good as to tell a lawyer--to come round to the jail. Mr.---- came,
and I engaged him for my lawyer. When the constables saw that pretending to know no one in
Buffalo, I had engaged one of the best lawyers in the place, they were astonished. I told them
that 'as scared as they thought I was, I wanted them to know that I had my senses about me.'
The court was not opened until nine days; the tenth day my trial commenced. The object was,
to show some evidence as if of murder, so that they could take me to Baltimore. On the eleventh
day the claimant was defeated, and I was cleared at 10 A.M. After I was cleared, and while
I was yet in the court room, a telegraphic despatch came from a Judge in Savannah, saying that
I was no murderer, but a fugitive slave. However, before a new warrant could be got out, I
was in a carriage and on my way. I crossed over into Canada, and walked thirty miles to the
Clifton House."--Benjamin Drew, A North-Side View of Slavery, pp. 102-104.

WHITE WOMEN ENSLAVED.--"A New Hampshire gentleman went down into Louisiana, many years ago,
to take a plantation. He pursued the usual method; borrowing money largely to begin with, paying
high interest, and clearing off his debt, year by year, as his crops were sold. He followed
another custom there; taking a Quadroon wife: a mistress, in the eye of the law, since there
can be no legal marriage between the whites and persons of any degree of color: but, in nature
and in reason, the woman he took home was his wife. She was a well-principled, amiable, well-educated
woman; and they lived happily together for twenty years. She had only the slightest possible
tinge of color. Knowing the law, that the children of slaves are to follow the fortunes of
the mother, she warned her husband that she was not free, an ancestress having been a slave,
and the legal act of manumission having never been performed. The husband promised to look
to it: but neglected it. At the end of twenty years, one died, and the other shortly followed,
leaving daughters; whether two or three, I have not been able to ascertain with positive certainty;
but I have reason to believe three, of the ages of fifteen, seventeen, and eighteen; beautiful
girls, with no perceptible mulatto tinge. The brother of their father came down from New Hampshire
to settle the affairs; and he supposed, as every one else did, that the deceased had been wealthy.
He was pleased with his nieces, and promised to carry them back with him into New Hampshire,
and (as they were to all appearance perfectly white) to introduce them into the society which
by education they were fitted for. It appeared, however, that their father had died insolvent.
The deficiency was very small: but it was necessary to make an inventory of the effects, to
deliver to the creditors. This was done by the brother,--the executor. Some of the creditors
called on him, and complained that he had not delivered in a faithful inventory. He declared
he had. No: the number of slaves was not accurately set down: he had omitted the daughters.
The executor was overwhelmed with horror, and asked time for thought. He went round among the
creditors, appealing to their mercy: but they answered that these young ladies were 'a first-rate
article,' too valuable to be relinquished. He next offered, (though he had himself six children,
and very little money,) all he had for the redemption of his nieces; alleging that it was more
than they would bring in the market for house or field labor. This was refused with scorn.
It was said that there were other purposes for which the girls would bring more than for field
or house labor. The uncle was in despair, and felt strongly tempted to wish their death, rather
than their surrender to such a fate as was before them. He told them, abruptly, what was their
prospect. He declares that he never before beheld human grief; never before heard the voice
of anguish. They never ate, nor slept, nor separated from each other, till the day when they
were taken into the New Orleans slave market. There they were sold, separately, at high prices,
for the vilest of purposes: and where each is gone, no one knows. They are for the present,
lost. But they will arise to the light in the day of retribution."--Harriet Martineau, Views
on Slavery and Emancipation, pp. 8-9.

THE WHITE SLAVE.--"A slaveholder, living in Virginia, owned a beautiful slave woman, who was
almost white. She became the mother of a child, a little boy, in whose veins ran the blood
of her master, and the closest observer could not detect in its appearance any trace of African
descent. He grew to be two or three years of age, a most beautiful child and the idol of his
mother's heart, when the master concluded, for family reasons, to send him away. He placed
him in the care of a friend living in Guilford County, North Carolina, and made an agreement
that he should receive a common-school education, and at a suitable age be taught some useful
trade. Years passed; the child grew to manhood, and having received a good common-school education,
and learned the shoemaker's trade, he married an estimable young white woman, and had a family
of five or six children. He had not the slightest knowledge of the taint of African blood in
his veins, and no one in the neighborhood knew that he was the son of an octoroon slave woman.
He made a comfortable living for his family, was a good citizen, a member of the Methodist
Church, and was much respected by all who knew him. In course of time his father, the Virginian
slaveholder, died, and when the executors came to settle up the estate, they remembered the
little white boy, the son of the slave woman, and knowing that by law--such law!--he belonged
to the estate, and must be by this time a valuable piece of property, they resolved to gain
possession of him. After much inquiry and search they learned of his whereabouts, and the heir
of the estate, accompanied by an administrator, went to Guilford County, North Carolina, to
claim his half-brother as a slave. Without making themselves known to him, they sold him to
a negro trader, and gave a bill of sale, preferring to have a sum in ready money instead of
a servant who might prove very valuable, but who would, without doubt, give them a great deal
of trouble. He had been free all his life, and they knew he would not readily yield to the
yoke of bondage. All this time the victim was entirely unconscious of the cruel fate in store
for him.

"His wife had been prostrated by a fever then prevalent in the neighborhood, and he had waited
upon her and watched by her bedside, until he was worn out with exhaustion and loss of sleep.
Several neighbor women coming in one evening to watch with the invalid, he surrendered her
to their care, and retired to seek the rest he so much needed. That night the slave-dealer
came with a gang of ruffians, burst into the house and seized their victim as he lay asleep,
bound him, after heroic struggles on his part, and dragged him away. When he demanded the cause
of his seizure, they showed him the bill of sale they had received, and informed him that he
was a slave. In this rude, heartless manner the intelligence that he belonged to the African
race was first imparted to him, and the crushing weight of his cruel destiny came upon him
when totally unprepared. His captors hurried him out of the neighborhood, and took him toward
the Southern slave markets. To get him black enough to sell without question, they washed his
face in tan ooze, and kept him tied in the sun, and to complete his resemblance to a mulatto,
they cut his heir short and seared it with a hot iron to make it curly. He was sold in Georgia
or Alabama, to a hard master, by whom he was cruelly treated.

"Several months afterward he succeeded in escaping, and made his way back to Guilford County,
North Carolina. Here he learned that his wife had died a few days after his capture, the shock
of that calamity having hastened her death, and that his children were scattered among the
neighbors. His master, thinking that he would return to his old home, came in pursuit of him
with hounds, and chased him through the thickets and swamps. He evaded the dogs by wading in
a mill-pond, and climbing a tree, where he remained several days. Dr. George Swain, a man of
much influence in the community, had an interview with him, and, hearing the particulars of
his seizure, said he thought the proceedings were illegal. He held a consultation with several
lawyers, and instituted proceedings in his behalf. But the unfortunate victim of man's cruelty
did not live to regain his freedom. He had been exposed and worried so much, trailed by dogs
and forced to lie in swamps and thickets, that his health was broken down and he died before
the next term of court."--Levi Coffin, Reminiscences, pp. 29-31.

A SLAVE OF ROYAL BLOOD.--"Among the many persons of color whom I visited at Philadelphia, was
a woman of singular intelligence and good breeding. A friend was with me. She received us with
the courtesy and easy manners of a gentlewoman. She appeared to be between thirty and forty
years of age--of pure African descent, with a handsome expressive countenance and a graceful
person. Her mother, who had been stolen from her native land at an early age, was the daughter
of a king, and is now, in her eighty-fifth year, the parent stem of no less than 182 living
branches. When taken by the slavers, she had with her a piece of gold as an ornament, to denote
her rank. Of this she was of course deprived; and a solid bar of the same metal, which her
parent sent over to America for the purchase of her freedom, shared the same fate. Christiana
Gibbons, who is thus the granddaughter of a prince of the Ebo tribe, was bought when about
fifteen years of age, by a woman who was struck by her interesting appearance, and emancipated
her. Her benefactress left her, at her death, a legacy of 8,000 dollars. The whole of this
money was lost by the failure of a bank, in which her legal trustee (a man of the name of James
Morrison, since dead) had placed it in his own name. She had other property, acquired by her
own industry, and affording a rent of 500 dollars a year. Her agent, however, Colonel Myers,
though indebted to her for many attentions and marks of kindness during sickness, had neglected
to remit her the money from Savannah, in Georgia, where the estate is situated; and, when I
saw her, she was living, with her husband and son, on the fruits of her labor.

"She had not been long resident in Philadelphia, whither she had come to escape the numerous
impositions and annoyances to which she was exposed in Georgia. Her husband was owner of a
wharf in Savannah, worth eight or ten thousand dollars. It is much feared that the greater
part of this property will be lost, or not recovered without great difficulty. I was induced
to call upon her, in consequence of a letter I had received from Mr. Kingsley, of whom I have
before spoken. He had long been acquainted with her, and spoke of her to me in the highest
terms; wishing that I should see what he considered a 'good specimen of the race.'

"We found her, indeed, a very remarkable woman; though it is probable that there are many among
the despised slaves as amiable and accomplished as herself. Such, at least, was the account
she gave us of their condition, that we felt convinced of the superiority possessed by many,
in moral worth and intellectual acuteness, above their oppressors."--E. S. Abdy, Journal of
a Residence and Tour in the United States of America from April, 1833, to October, 1834, pp.
346-348.

BOOK REVIEWS

The Virgin Islands of the United States of America. By LUTHER K. ZABRISKIE, Former Vice-Consul
of the United States at St. Thomas. G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York and London, 1918. Pp. 339.
Price $4.00.

This is an historical and descriptive work containing facts, figures and resources about a
country ninety per cent of the population of which belongs to the Negro race. It is a detailed
account of practically every interest of concern to the tourist, the merchant, the geographer
and the historian. It is made still more valuable by its one hundred and nine illustrations
and two maps which clearly demonstrate what the United States Government has received in return
for the purchase price of $25,000,000.

The first effort of the author is to give a short sketch of the history of the Virgin Islands.
He then takes up the question of purchasing the islands. In discussing these political and
historic questions, however, the author is too brief and neglectful of important problems which
the student of history would like to know. The author no doubt carefully avoided these questions
for the reasons that he was then and still is in the diplomatic service of the United States.
The book is chiefly concerned with the actual government of the group, the occupations of the
people, and the place of the islands in the commerce of the world.

Largely interested, therefore, in those things which generally concern a consul, Mr. Zabriskie
has written a valuable commercial treatise. He explains such things as steamer service, harbor
facilities, banking, currency, sanitation, transportation, cattle raising, agriculture, manufactures,
imports and exports. The last part of the book is exclusively devoted to the most recent history
of the Virgin Islands. There is a discussion of the sale negotiations, the convention between
the United States and Denmark, the announcement of the sale, the formal transfer of the islands,
the farewell service and the temporary government provided. This part of the book is not merely
descriptive. It contains the actual documents as in the case of the convention between the
United States and Denmark, which is given in the English and Danish languages.

       *       *       *       *       *

Your Negro Neighbor. By BENJAMIN BRAWLEY. The Macmillan Company, New York, 1918. Pp. 100. Price
60 cents.

In this book Dean Brawley does not reach the standard set in some of his other works, but he
has here some facts and suggestions which are worth while. The book begins with an appeal to
the people of the United States in behalf of the Negroes who, despite their many grievances,
are now fighting to make the world safe for democracy although their own country is not safe
for them. In directing these remarks to the citizens of this country the author gives in detail
the Negroes' grounds for complaint and shows how because of the unjust treatment of the blacks
in the United States this country has become an object of suspicion in South America, where
the color line is not known.

The second chapter of the book is a statement of the Negroes' place in history. This, however,
is too brief and unscientific to be of much value to one in quest of facts of Negro history.
It seems unnecessary here also to devote a special chapter to such isolated facts of history
in writing a book dealing with a social problem.

The chapter bearing on the Negro as an industrial factor contains interesting material taken
from statistical reports. The author discusses such questions as the reliability of Negro laborers,
the antagonism of the labor unions, housing conditions, and the like. Taking up the institution
of lynching, Dean Brawley goes over old ground but gives striking facts to portray this blot
on the American civilization. Then without showing any close connection between the two the
author takes up Negro education since the Civil War. Here we see another failure to treat an
important question intensively and scientifically. He then gives a sketch of Joanna P. Moore,
a missionary of much worth, takes up certain critics and their fallacies, asserts the possibility
of the race and closes with a plea for a moralist.

This in brief is the work recently produced by a man who is undertaking to address the American
people on almost every phase of Negro life and history. This work, however, is merely the author's
observations or impressions of the Negroes among the whites. The very work itself shows that
Dean Brawley is undertaking too much. He is best as a literary critic but in sociology and
history his works do not measure up to standard.

                                   ORVILLE HOLLIDAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

The American Cavalryman. By HENRY F. DOWNING. The Neale Publishing Company, New York, 1917.
Pp. 306. Price $1.50.

This is a Liberian romance written by Henry F. Downing, a colored man who evidently spent some
years in Liberia. The diction is good, the style pleasing, and the story interesting, but it
is not a sympathetic portrayal of African character and customs. It is written from a white
man's point of view and shows a tendency to regard the white man's civilization of today as
the only true standard. He shows, however, that he does not always approve of the European
method of dealing with the African. While describing an unequal contest between the cavalryman
and natives, he says: "But alas! in war, as in finance and love, victory does not always smile
upon the most deserving. She usually favors the numerically stronger side; that is, unless
the less numerous party is armed with quick firing guns, dumdum bullet, and other harmless
weapons that Europeans think it criminal to employ against one another, but cheerfully use
to Christianize and civilize the poor helpless black African."

The chief value of the work lies in its portrayal of native customs, some of which are beautiful,
some wholly barbarous and all more or less tinctured with superstition. But, when we pause
to think how rife superstition still is among all so-called civilized peoples, we conclude
that it is a belief hard to eradicate from human nature. Even in our own country people were
hanged as witches a little over a hundred years ago.

While cunning and shrewdness are shown to hold an exalted place in the native character, still
lying and cheating, when discovered, are severely punished. Loyalty to friends and fidelity
to pledges are held in great esteem. Human life does not seem to be valued very highly judging
from the readiness with which a chief extinguished it by having all disloyal or disobedient
followers beheaded at a moment's notice. It is evident throughout, however, that human nature
is the same in civilized and uncivilized peoples.

There is no attempt to portray the history of Liberia in these pages, a thing which in my opinion
would have made the work stronger and far more valuable. It does give a fair picture of Monrovia,
the capital city, and presents, to some extent, the need for wise and just administration and
the necessity of funds to improve the city and endow it with parks, libraries, and places of
amusement. The value of the American constabulary force is felt and the importance of increased
communications, union and helpfulness between the government and the tribes are emphasized.
Altogether it is a work worth writing and worth reading, although it does not give enough prominence
to the nobler traits of the native character.

                                   IDA GIBBS HUNT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Education for Life. By FRANCIS G. PEABODY, Vice-President of the Board of Trustees. The Story
of Hampton Institute, told in Connection with the Fiftieth Anniversary of the School. Doubleday,
Page and Company, New York, 1918. Pp. 393. Price $2.50.

This work has for its background a brief account of the Negro during the Civil War and the
Reconstruction, serving as the occasion for the beginning of the successful career of General
Samuel Chapman Armstrong, the founder of Hampton Institute. The actual history of the institution
appears under such captions as the beginnings of Hampton, the years of promise, the coming
of the Indian, the years of fulfilment, the end of an era, the coming of Frissell, and the
expansion of Hampton. The author has endeavored also to explain the relations of Hampton and
the South and to forecast the future possibilities of this school. The work is well printed
and beautifully illustrated.

In the Springfield Republican of July 6, 1918, A. L. Dawes said in her review of this work:

"Hampton institute has chosen a fitting occasion, the completion of fifty years of life and
work, to issue the history of its achievement. It comes at the end of one distinct epoch, and
the beginning of another, when it is of much value to consider the results which make a foundation
for new progress. It is a record of wonderful achievement, and this amazing institution may
well be proud of it. We are led from the huddled camp of contrabands in 1868 to the allied
armies in 1918; from a crowd of men and women without a past and seemingly without a future--even
a possibility only to the eyes of patriotism and faith--we are led in these pages to the ranks
of efficient soldiers and brilliant officers fighting with southern men whose grandfathers
called their grandfathers slaves!

"Faith has become pride and patriotism has become an individual possession in a resurrected
race. The book might well have been called by that title--'The Resurrection of a Race'--but
its distinguished author, in calling it 'Education for Life,' has chosen to consider Hampton's
double mission to the race and to the world in connection with education. This latter aspect
of its work makes the book particularly pertinent at this time of world reconstruction. This
attractive volume will be read with interest and satisfaction by the many widespread friends
of Hampton Institute, and it will also be sought with eagerness by another audience, the large
public, which is seeking new theories of education for a new world. This group will find it
a clear and compelling statement of a new philosophy of education worked out there, heretofore
neither recognized nor understood outside, but limited either to manual training or vocational
education.

"Hampton has been fortunate in its biographer. It is a labor of love, by Rev. Francis G. Peabody,
one of the few remaining trustees whose service covers its three epochs and whose friendship
has inspired its three principals. Perhaps no one else has so entered into the life of the
place. He has made himself one with pupils and faculty and trustees and public in such friendly
fashion that he may rightly say 'we' from any point of view. His many readers will look for
noteworthy diction amounting to a new use of words, grace of speech and charm of phrase, a
startling power of insight, a passion for social service and the revelation of the spiritual
in all human affairs, with the inspiration which compels. These things Dr. Peabody's readers
expect of him, but it might have been questioned whether he could write a history. In this
book he has shown us that history is the story of life, and he has used all these abilities
to discover and fitly express the life which has become Hampton Institute. Not the least of
all his skill has appeared in what he has left out--so that the book is never dull though it
is crowded with facts. Everything is here that is needed to answer the questions of any objector,
and what is more difficult, of any friend. The illustrations are not only interesting, but
valuable footnotes to history, and there are a number of collections of statistics at the end
of the book of incomparable worth to the student of these subjects; we cannot enough commend
their range and selection.

"Among the rest, we notice a just commendation of the Hampton Club in this city. All through
the book explanation forestalls objection, while old friends find new information and new reasons
for half-understood methods. Such are the accumulating exposition of the Hampton idea, and
the description of circumstances and resources which condition all action, and determine the
measure of progress. Those who know and love this wonderful place will be gratified at the
stress laid on the 'Hampton spirit' of service as the explanation of its success, as well as
the constant recognition of the spiritual in the methods as well as the aims of this hothouse
of missionary effort. No one familiar with the school would have found the record complete
without the stressing of this element at once its motive and its life. Few could have so well
defined that elusive but forceful thing--'the Hampton spirit.'

"It needed all the writer's ability to set forth fitly the ardent Armstrong and the able Frissell--witness
his success in this characterization of them:

"'Never were two administrative officers more unlike each other. Armstrong was impetuous, magnetic,
volcanic; Frissell was reserved, sagacious, prudent. The gifts of the one were those of action;
the strength of the other was in discretion.'

"He has given us all fresh knowledge of both men. By his choice and collocation of extracts
he shows Armstrong not only to have had the enthusiastic impact on his world known to all men,
but also a forelooking philosophy which guided him to a definite end. He brings out the long
line of unusual circumstances which prepared him for this work, and in repeating the vision
in which like a Hebrew prophet the young officer was called to teach the Negroes, the writer
shows that work to have been a definite growth. No one who knew Samuel C. Armstrong can ever
forget him, or ever describe him, but not one of his wide circle ever failed to be moved by
any contact with him to put forth his own powers to their full measure.

"Dr. Peabody does full justice to the help and service of the Freedmen's Bureau, which from
the first linked the institution with the government, and to the American Missionary Association,
which made its beginning possible. He further shows many missionary and philanthropic sources
upon which it has always drawn. If he halts a little in enthusiastic justice to Gen. Benjamin
F. Butler, who began this crusade, he has evidently done it best--an unexpected best it must
be said, from a Harvard professor! Samuel Armstrong was moved by his Christian impulses and
missionary inheritance to help these needy people, but there could hardly have been a more
unpromising opportunity.

"The task which Armstrong took up was greater than the present generation can imagine. Dr.
Peabody has recognized this by a clear and dispassionate description of the situation in 1868,
an analysis of the greatest value to the present-day reader. Armstrong's high courage and faith
brought him to the day when he saw the race well on the high road to its place in the sun,
before he dropped his mantle on the shoulders of his successor. It is doubtful, perhaps, whether
he saw clearly how much he had done nor how firmly he had established his principles of the
necessity of work and respect for it. Dr. Peabody brings out very distinctly this his great
achievement, but it is superfluous to quote from a story which everyone will want to read for
himself.

"Mindful of the fact that education depends upon personal contact, this book deals largely
with the work of the two outstanding personalities, who have made the institution what it is.
Hollis Burke Frissell, who took up the work of principal when Armstrong left it twenty-five
years ago--'Dr. Frissell' as everyone knew him--proved to be in some ways one of the great
men of his time, certainly so if you give a high value to education. As one of his close friends
has said of him, 'He invariably grew to the measure of the stature that his work called for.'

"If Dr. Peabody has failed at all in the hard task of describing one in whom the full round
of qualities blended into the white light of simplicity it is perhaps in not making his virility
sufficiently evident. The first and last impression Frissell made was of lovableness, and he
was so intent on getting work done that he never cared to be known as its author. Therefore,
even his friends did not always discover his strength or sometimes his greatness. He carried
on the school to a phenominal success and he developed more than one beginning to a definite
policy.

"In the latter part of Gen. Armstrong's career a simple occurrence changed the whole character
of the school. From it the school developed into a world institution. When the government asked
Gen. Armstrong to continue the education of seventeen Indians already begun by Capt. Pratt,
the task was undertaken as a civil and Christian duty, but thus was started a government policy,
and an educational experiment which, carried on and broadened to other races under Dr. Frissell,
has changed the face of our own land and altered the conditions of backward races the world
over. Because of this great historical fact, Hampton should always keep up its Indian department,
which witnesses to the beginning of its world relation.

"The passing of time after the Civil War and emancipation also made possible to Dr. Frissell
the development of another policy, that of the unification of the North and the South. This
was something very near his heart, and for it he started the southern education board--which
was his creation more fully than Dr. Peabody explains--the Jeans board, much of the southern
work of the Rockefeller or general educational board and other well-known agencies to this
end. And to accomplish the reconciliation of the races and the regions he gave the vital force
which finally cost him his life. The future will render this service its due meed of praise,
as the writer so well sets forth, a service carried on in the midst of misunderstanding and
sharp criticism.

"Dr. Peabody has devoted himself especially on bringing out the growth of Dr. Frissell's carefully-thought-out
educational ideals, whereby he added the value of work to the necessity of it in a complete
education. Under Frissell, as is so well shown, Hampton entered on its second stage, its relation
to the philosophy of education. Men came from all over the world to study the question of the
training of native races. Inspired by his work, Frissell saw the possibilities on every side,
and looked far into the future. Thus, as has been said, his set purpose broadened the school
to include Porto Rico, Cuba, the Philippines, and even Africa, making it what he loved to call
it, a 'race laboratory.' That he succeeded appears in the constant stream of officials, educators
and philanthropists from all over the globe coming to Hampton that they may study and copy
its methods. The vision of the future which was given to Dr. Frissell was not so much a vision
of a new race, as with Armstrong; it was for Frissell a vision of a new humanity.

"It is this vision of 'Education for life' which Dr. Peabody brings out so clearly--both its
meaning and its value. The oldest friends of Hampton have hardly understood it before, so well
does he explain it, and so thoroughly does he show that its purpose is to make men and women.
Artisans and skilled workmen come out of it, but its first purpose is to develop individuals
and all its interests tend to this end. This explains its limitations also, and answers many
complaints. The white teacher who recently left because there was 'no future' for her own career;
the educator who complained of a system which continued to educate on general lines when some
vocational diversion would be more profitable; those who support the objections of the 'Crisis'
that Hampton is not a university--all these critics fail to understand the new philosophy of
Hampton and its dominant human motive. It would be a great mistake if, as appears to be hinted
here, any concessions should be made to the demand of these last critics, whose aims would
destroy the whole idea of Hampton, and its value as a world experiment. The author of the book
and distinguished student of social ethics so strongly brings out its claim to a new education,
for a new world that (to repeat) the reader cannot fail to inquire if this is the solution
of the future in our forthcoming new world.

"Dr. Peabody brings us to the beginning of the third era and pays a deserved tribute to the
new principal. Rev. James E. Gregg, who enters on the task at a critical time. Just now, when
the race question is acute both here and everywhere, and when the new democracy is demanding
a new education, there could hardly be a greater opportunity for the man or the school.

This inadequate sketch of a most informing and inspiring book may well be closed with a few
paragraphs which sum up the aims of Hampton Institute:

"'In short, the fundamental issue in all education for life is between a training to make things
and a training to make character. Is a man to be taught carpentering primarily that a house
shall be well built, or that in the building the man himself shall get intelligence, self-mastery
and skill?'

"'The principle was definitely accepted that these shops and classes were maintained, not as
sources of profit, but as factors in an education for life. Young men and women were not to
be regarded as satisfactory products of Hampton Institute because each could do one thing and
get good wages for doing it, but because each had been trained to apply mind and will to the
single task, and had made it not only a way of living, but a way of life.'

"'Trade education as conceived gradually developed and finally realized at Hampton Institute
is a development of the person through the trade, rather than a development of the trade through
the person. The product is not primarily goods, but goodness; not so much profit as personality....
These students become delivered from the benumbing conditions of modern industry by the emancipating
and humanizing effect of the Hampton scheme of industrial training, and those who are thus
initiated in a large view of their small opportunities are likely to find their way, not only
to those occupations, which are still open at the top, but to those resources of happiness
which are discovered when work has become a vocation, and labor has contributed to life.'"

NOTES

In the introduction to Book II of Negro Folk-Songs the author, Mrs. Natalie Curtis Burlin,
has some interesting paragraphs showing the connection of this music with certain origins in
Africa. She says:

"That Negro folk-song is indeed an offshoot from an African root, nobody who has heard Africans
sing or even beat the drum can deny. The American Negroes are sprung, of course, from many
tribes; but whereas the native traffic in slaves and captives brought individuals from widely
separated parts of the continent to the coasts and thus to the European slavers, the great
mass of Negroes that filled the slave ships destined for America probably belonged--according
to some authorities--to the big linguistic stock called Bantu, comprising some fifty million
people south of the equator. The Zulu and Ndau tribes, whose songs I studied, are of this stock.
Yet, as there are over a hundred million Negroes on the Dark Continent, whose different traits
are probably represented in some form in this country, all statements as to musical derivations
could be made with final authority only by one who had studied comprehensively the music of
many different tribes in Africa. This much, however, one may most emphatically affirm: though
the Negro, transplanted to other lands, absorbed much musically from a surrounding civilization,
yet the characteristics which give to his music an interest worthy of particular study are
precisely those which differentiate Negro songs from the songs of the neighboring white man;
they are racial traits, and the black man brought them from the Dark Continent.

"The most obvious point of demarcation between Negro music and European is found, of course,
in the rhythm. The simpler rhythms natural to the white man (I speak of folk-music, the people's
song, not of the elaborate creations of trained musicians) are usually even and symmetrical.
Throughout western Europe and in English and Latin countries, the accents fall as a rule on
the stressed syllables of the spoken tongue and on the regular beats of the music. The opposite
is the case in Negro songs: here the rhythms are uneven, jagged, and, at a first hearing, eccentric,
for the accents fall most frequently on the short notes and on the naturally unstressed beats,
producing what we call 'syncopation' of a very intricate and highly developed order. The peculiarity
of this syncopation is best explained to the layman by drawing attention to the way in which
the natural rhythms of the English language are distorted to fit the rhythm of Negro music:
where the white man would sing, 'Go down Moses,' the Negro chants, 'Go down, Moses,' while
a phrase like 'See my Mother,' becomes in the mouth of the colored singer 'See my Mother.'
These identical accents are found in even the wordless vowel refrains of native African songs.
Rhythmically the Negro folk-song has far more variety of accent than the European; it captivates
the ear and the imagination with its exciting vitality and with its sense of alertness and
movement. For this reason Negro rhythms and white man imitations of them popularized as 'rag-time'
have spread far and wide and have conquered the world to-day. The black man has by nature a
highly organized rhythmic sense. A totally uneducated Negro, dancing or playing the bones,
is often a consummate artist in rhythm, performing with utter abandon and yet with flawless
accuracy. My African informant, Kamba Simango, thought nothing of singing one rhythm, beating
another with his hands and dancing a third--and all at once!

"Melodically as well as rhythmically, American Negro songs possess distinct characteristics.
One of these is a very prevalent use of the pentatonic or five-tone scale, corresponding to
the black keys of the piano. If one comes upon a group of colored men unconsciously humming
or whistling at work, most often it is the five-tone scale that utters their musical thoughts.
This scale--along with other scales--is heard in black Africa also, and in the music of many
simple peoples in different parts of the world. Indeed, just as totally unrelated races at
certain stages of culture seem to trace many of the same rudimentary symbols and designs on
pottery and in textiles, so in music, the archaic simplicity of the five-tone scale would seem
almost a basic human art-instinct. Yet the highly developed civilization and the carefully
defined musical systems of China and other nations of the farthest East retain the pentatonic
scale in wide use, the Chinese in their philosophical and mystical theories of music, linking
the five-tones symbolically with the heavenly bodies. It is surprising how much variety can
be achieved with those five tones. One of the most graceful melodies that I know in all music
is the popular Chinese 'lily Song' which I recorded from a Chinese actor and which possesses
the sheer beauty of outline and the firm delicacy of a Chinese drawing. Indeed, the melodic
possibilities of the five-tone scale, containing a charm absolutely peculiar to that scale,
instead of being limited, seem almost endless.

"American Negro music, is however, by no means restricted to this tonality, for we find a broad
indulgence in the major and minor modes of modern art, and also there are many songs in which
occur tones foreign to those scales most common of which is perhaps the minor, or flat, seventh.
Then, too, there are songs framed in the scale with a sharp fourth; and we also find, though
more rarely in Negro music, the augmented interval of three semitones. Those of us who have
noted Arabic folk-songs are accustomed to associate this latter interval with Semitic music;
occurring as it does in African music also it reminds us of the contact between the black population
of Africa and the Semitic peoples in the white north of the continent whose caravan trade brought
them into communication with the more savage interior, while their ships touched at ports along
the coasts and even landed colonists on the Eastern shores, where Arab trade across the Red
Sea must have existed since early Bible times. As the age-old slave traffic brought captives
from African tribes out from the heart of black Africa to the north, we can readily see how,
since the very dawn of history, Negro and Semitic cultures must have touched. One of the Bantu
legends in my collection from Portuguese East Africa is probably of Semitic origin, and the
song which it embodies seems also tinged with foreign color. Without doubt, Semitic tunes and
musical intervals found their way to African ears, while, on the other side, African Negro
drum-beats and syncopations must have influenced Berber, Moorish and thus perhaps even Spanish
rhythms.

"Another characteristic of the Negro, musically, is a harmonic sense indicating musical intuition
of a high order. This instinct for natural polyphony is made clear in the recording of the
Negro songs in this collection, wherein I have noted the four-part harmony as sung extemporaneously
by colored boys who had had no musical training whatever. Some of the most beautiful improvisational
part-singing that I ever heard arose from the throats of utterly illiterate black laborers
in a tobacco factory. One has but to attend a colored church, whether North or South, to hear
men and women break naturally into alto, tenor or bass parts (and even subdivisions of these),
to realize how instinctively the Negro musical mind thinks harmonies. I have heard players
in colored bands perform one part on an instrument and sing another while all those around
him were playing and singing still different parts. Yet it has been asserted by some people
that the harmonic sense of the Negro is a product of white environment and that the black man
owes his intuitive gift to the slave-holders who sang hymns, ballads and popular songs in his
hearing! With all due allowance for white influence, which has been great, of course, the fact
remains that in savage Africa, remote from European culture, many of the most primitive pagan
songs are sung in parts with elaborate interludes on drums tuned to different pitches. Indeed
the music of the Dark Continent is rich in polyphonic as well as rhythmic suggestions for the
European. Perhaps the war may help to prick some of the vanity of the white race, which, looking
down with self-assumed superiority upon other races, is quick to condemn delinquencies as native
characteristics, and to ascribe to its own influences anything worthy; whereas the reverse
is, alas, all too often the case. Certainly the art of Africa, of India, of the Orient and
of North America owes to the Anglo-Saxon only corruption and commercialization. As for American
Negro music, those songs that are most like the music of the white people--and they are not
few--are the least interesting; they are sentimental, tame, and uneventful both in melody and
rhythm. On the other hand, such melodies as 'Go down Moses,' 'Four and Twenty Eiders on Their
Knees,' 'Run, Mary, Run,' these speak from the very soul of the black race and no white man
could have conceived them. They have a dignity barbaric, aloof and wholly individual which
lifts them cloud-high above any 'White' hymns that the Negro might have overheard. Austere
as Egyptian bas-relief, simple as Congo sculpture, they are mighty melodies, and they are Negro."

       *       *       *       *       *

D. Appleton and Company have published for Professor Ulrich B. Phillips of the University of
Michigan a volume entitled American Negro Slavery.

Lincoln, the Politician, by T. Aaron Levy, and Latest Lights on Abraham Lincoln, and War Time
Memories, works published by Badger and Revell respectively, are two important volumes throwing
light on the Civil War.

Among the Washington University Studies has appeared a monograph by C. S. Boucher entitled
The Secession and Cooperation Movements in South Carolina, 1848 to 1852.

       *       *       *       *       *