Other drugstores certainly followed the practice of Brewer's employer, in cleaning up and refilling
bottles that had previously been drained of their old English medicines. The chief source of
bottles to hold the American imitations, however, was the same as that to which Waldo and Rantoul
had turned, English glass factories. It was not so easy for Americans to fabricate the vials
as it was for them to compound the mixtures to fill them. In the years before the War of 1812,
the British glass industry maintained a virtual monopoly of the specially-shaped bottles for
Bateman's, Turlington's, and the other British remedies. When in the 1820's the first titan
of made-in-America nostrums, Thomas W. Dyott of Philadelphia, appeared upon the scene, this
venturesome entrepreneur decided to make bottles not only for his own assorted remedies but
also for the popular English brands. In time he succeeded in improving the quality of American
bottle glass and in drastically reducing prices. The standard cost for most of the old English
vials under the British monopoly had been $5.50 a gross. By the early 1830's Dyott had cut
the price to under two dollars.[84]

      [84] Democratic Press, Philadelphia, July 1 and October 28,
      1824; Thomas W. Dyott, An exposition of the system of moral and
      mental abor, established at the glass factory of Dyottsville,
      Philadelphia, 1833; and Joseph D. Weeks, "Reports on the
      manufacture of glass," Report of the manufactures of the United
      States at the tenth census, Washington, D. C, 1883.

Other American glass manufactories followed suit. For example, in 1835 the Free Will Glass
Manufactory was making "Godfrey's Cordial," "Turlington's Balsam," and "Opodeldoc Bitters bottles."[85]
An 1848 broadside entitled "The Glassblowers' List of Prices of Druggist's Ware," a broadside
preserved at the Smithsonian Institution, includes listings for Turlington's Balsam, Godfrey's
Cordial, Dalby's and Small and Large Opodeldoc bottles, among many other American patent medicine
bottles.

      [85] Van Rensscalar, op. cit., (footnote 53), p. 151.

In the daybook of the Beverly, Massachusetts, apothecary,[86] were inscribed for Turlington's
Balsam, three separate formulas, each markedly different from the others. A Philadelphia medical
journal in 1811 contained a complaint that Americans were using calomel in the preparation
of Anderson's Scots Pills, and that this practice was a deviation both from the original formula
and from the different but still all-vegetable formula by which the pills were being made in
England.[87] Various books were published revealing the "true" formulas, in conflicting versions.[88]

      [86] Rantoul, op. cit. (footnote 72).

      [87] Philadelphia Medical Museum, new ser., vol. 1, p. 130,
      1811.

      [88] Formulae selectae; or a collection of prescriptions of
      eminent physicians, and the most celebrated patent medicines,
      New York, 1818; John Ayrton Paris, Pharmacologia; or the history
      of medicinal substances, with a view to establish the art of
      prescribing and of composing extemporaneous formulae upon fixed
      and scientific principles, New York, 1822.

Philadelphia College of Pharmacy Formulary

As the years went by and therapeutic laissez-faire continued to operate, conditions worsened.
By the early 1820's, the old English patent medicines, whether of dwindling British vintage
or of burgeoning American manufacture, were as familiar as laudanum or castor oil.

With the demand so extensive and the state of production so chaotic, the officials of the new
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy were persuaded that remedial action was mandatory. In May
1822, the Board of Trustees resolved to appoint a 5-man committee "to select from such prescriptions
for the preparation of Patent Medicines ..., as may be submitted to them by the members of
the College, those which in their opinion, may be deemed most appropriate for the different
compositions."

The committee chose for study "eight of the Patent Medicines most in use," and sought to ascertain
what ingredients these ancient remedies ought by right to contain. Turning to the original
formulas, where these were given in English patent specifications, the pharmacists soon became
convinced that the information provided by the original proprietors served "only to mislead."

If the patent specifications were perhaps intentionally confusing, the committee inquired,
how could the original formulas really be known? This quest seemed so fruitless that it was
not pursued. Instead the pharmacists turned to American experience in making the English medicines.
From many members of the College, and from other pharmacists as well, recipes were secured.
The result was shocking. Although almost every one came bolstered with the assertion that it
was true and genuine, the formulas differed so markedly one from the other, the committee reported,
as to make "the task of reformation a very difficult one." Indeed, in some cases, when two
recipes bearing the same old English name were compared, they were found to contain not one
ingredient in common. In other cases, the proportions of some basic ingredient would vary widely.
All the formulas collected for Bateman's Pectoral Drops, for instance, contained opium, but
the amount of opium to liquid ingredients in one formula submitted was 1 to 14, while in another
it was 1 to 1,000.

Setting forth boldly to strip these English nostrums of "their extravagant pretensions," the
committee sought to devise formulas for their composition as simple and inexpensive as possible
while yet retaining the "chief compatible virtues" ascribed to them on the traditional wrappers.

Hooper's Female Pills had been from the beginning a cathartic and emmenagogue. However, only
aloes was common to all the recipes submitted to the committee. This botanical, which still
finds a place in laxative products today, was retained by the committee as the cathartic base,
and to it were added "the Extract of Hellebore, the Sulphate of Iron and the Myrrh as the best
emmenagogues."

Anderson's Scots Pills had been a "mild" purgative throughout its long career, varying in composition
"according to the judgement or fancy of the preparer." Paris, an English physician, had earlier
reported that these pills consisted of aloes and jalap; the committee decided on aloes, with
small amounts of colocynth and gamboge, as the purgatives of choice.

Of Bateman's Pectoral Drops more divergent versions existed than of any of the others. The
committee settled on a formula of opium and camphor, not unlike paragoric in composition, with
catachu, anise flavoring, and coloring added. Godfrey's Cordial also featured opium in widely
varying amounts. The committee chose a formula which would provide a grain of opium per ounce,
to which was added sassafras "as the carminative which has become one of the chief features
of the medicine."

English apothecary Dalby had introduced his "Carminative" for "all those fatal Disorders in
the Bowels of Infants." The committee decided that a grain of opium to the ounce, together
with magnesia and three volatile oils, were essential "for this mild carminative and laxative
... for children."

Instead of the complex formula described by Robert Turlington for his Balsam of Life, the committee
settled on the official formula of Compound Tincture of Benzoin, with balsam of peru, myrrh,
and angelica root added, to produce "an elegant and rich balsamic tincture." On the other hand,
the committee adopted "with slight variations, the Linimentum Saponis of the old London Dispensatory"
to which they, like Steers, added only ammonia.

The committee found two distinct types of British Oil on the market. One employed oil of turpentine
as its basic ingredient, while the other utilized flaxseed oil. The committee decided that
both oils, along with several others in lesser quantities, were necessary to produce a medicine
"as exhibited in the directions" sold with British Oil. "Oil of Bricks" which apparently was
the essential ingredient of the Betton British Oil, was described by the committee as "a nauseous
and unskilful preparation, which has long since been banished from the Pharmacopoeias."

Thus the Philadelphia pharmacists devised eight new standardized formulas, aimed at retaining
the therapeutic goals of the original patent medicines, while brought abreast of current pharmaceutical
knowledge. Recognizing that the labeling had long contained "extravagant pretensions and false
assertions," the committee recommended that the wrappers be modified to present only truthful
claims.

The trustees felt this counsel to be wise, and ordered 250 copies of the 12-page pamphlet to
be printed. So popular did this first major undertaking of the Philadelphia College prove that
in 1833 the formulas were reprinted in the pages of the journal published by the College.[90]
Again the demand was high, few numbers of the publication were "more sought after," and in
1839 the formulas were printed once again, this time with slight revisions.[91]

      [90] "Patent medicines," Journal of the Philadelphia College of
      Pharmacy, April 1833, vol. 5, pp. 20-31.

      [91] C. Ellis, "Patent medicines," American Journal of
      Pharmacy, April 1839, new ser., vol. 5, pp. 67-74.

Thus had the old English patent medicines reached a new point in their American odyssey. They
had first crossed the Atlantic to serve the financial interests of the men who promoted them.
During the Revolution they had lost their British identity while retaining their British names.
The Philadelphia pharmacists, while adopting them and reforming their character, did not seek
to monopolize them, as had the original proprietors. They now could work for every man.

English Patent Medicines Go West

The double reprinting of the formulas was one token of the continuing role in American therapy
of the old English patent medicines. There were others. In 1829 with the establishment of a
school of pharmacy in New York City, the Philadelphia formulas were accepted as standard. The
new labels devised by the Philadelphians with their more modest claims of efficacy had a good
sale.[92] It was doubtless the Philadelphia recipes which went into the Bateman and Turlington
and Godfrey vials with which a new druggist should be equipped "at the outset of business,"
according to a book of practical counsel.[93] To local merchants who lacked the knowledge or
time to do it themselves, drummers and peddlers vended the medicines already bottled. "Doctor"
William Euen of Philadelphia issued a pamphlet in 1840 to introduce his son to "Physicians
and Country Merchants." His primary concern was dispensing nostrums bearing his own label,
but his son was also prepared to take orders for the old English patent medicines.[94] Manufacturers
and wholesalers of much better repute were prepared to sell bottles for the same brands, empty
or filled.

      [92] England, op. cit. (footnote 89), pp. 73, 103.

      [93] Carpenter, op. cit. (footnote 73).

      [94] William Euen, A short exposé on quackery ... or,
      introduction of his son to physicians and country merchants,
      Philadelphia, 1840.

In the early 1850's a young pharmacist in upstate New York,[95] using "old alcohol barrels
for tanks," worked hard at concocting Bateman's and Godfrey's and Steer's remedies. John Uri
Lloyd of Cincinnati recalled having compounded Godfrey's Cordial and Bateman's Drops, usually
making ten gallons in a single batch.[96] Out in Wisconsin, another druggist was buying Godfrey's
Cordial bottles at a dollar for half a gross, sticking printed directions on them that cost
twelve cents for the same quantity, and selling the medicine at four ounces for a quarter.[97]
He also sold British Oil and Opodeldoc, the same old English names dispensed by a druggist
in another Wisconsin town, who in addition kept Bateman's Oil in stock at thirteen cents the
bottle.[98] Godfrey's was listed in the 1860 inventory of an Illinois general store at six
cents a bottle.[99]

      [95] James Winchell Forbes, "The memoirs of an American
      pharmacist," Midland Druggist and Pharmaceutical Review, 1911,
      vol. 45, pp. 388-395.

      [96] John Uri Lloyd, "Eclectic fads," Eclectic Medical Journal,
      October 1921, vol. 81, p. 2.

      [97] Cody & Johnson Drug Co., Apothecary daybooks, Watertown,
      Wisconsin [1851-1872]. Manuscript originals preserved in the
      State Historical Society of Wisconsin, cataloged under "Cady."

      [98] Swarthout and Silsbee, Druggists daybook, Columbus,
      Wisconsin [1852-1853]. Manuscript original preserved in the State
      Historical Society of Wisconsin.

      [99] McClaughry and Tyler, Invoice book, Fountain Green, Illinois
      [1860-1877]. Manuscript original preserved in the Illinois State
      Historical Society, Springfield.

Farther west the same familiar names appeared. Indeed, the old English patent medicines had
long since moved westward with fur trader and settler. As early as 1783, a trader in western
Canada, shot by a rival, called for Turlington's Balsam to stop the bleeding. Alas, in this
case, the remedy failed to work.[100] In 1800 that inveterate Methodist traveler, Bishop Francis
Asbury, resorted to Stoughton's Elixir when afflicted with an intestinal complaint.[101] In
1808, some two months after the first newspaper began publishing west of the Mississippi River,
a local store advised readers in the vicinity of St. Louis that "a large supply of patent medicines"
had just been received, among them Godfrey's Cordial, British Oil, Turlington's Balsam, and
Steer's "Ofodeldo [sic]."[102]

      [100] Harold A. Innis, Peter Pond, fur trader and adventurer,
      Toronto, 1930.

      [101] Peter Oliver, "Notes on science, medicine and public health
      in the United States in the year 1800," Bulletin of the History
      of Medicine. 1944, vol. 16, p. 129.

      [102] Isaac Lionberger, "Advertisements in the Missouri Gazette,
      1808-1811," Missouri Historical Society Collections, 1928-1931,
      vol. 6, p. 21.

Turlington's product played a particular role in the Indian trade, thus demonstrating that
the red man has not been limited in nostrum history to providing medical secrets for the white
man to exploit. Proof of this has been demonstrated by archaeologists working under the auspices
of the Smithsonian Institution in both North and South Dakota. Two pear-shaped bottles with
Turlington's name and patent claims embossed in the glass were excavated by a Smithsonian Institution
River Basin Surveys expedition in 1952, on the site of an old trading post known as Fort Atkinson
or Fort Bethold II, situated some 16 miles southeast of the present Elbowoods, North Dakota.
In 1954 the North Dakota Historical Society found a third bottle nearby. These posts, operated
from the mid-1850's to the mid-1880's, served the Hidatsa and Mandan Indians who dwelt in a
town named Like-a-Fishhook Village. The medicine bottles were made of cast glass, light green
in color, probably of American manufacture. More interesting is the bottle from South Dakota.
It was excavated in 1923 near Mobridge at a site which was the principal village of the Arikara
Indians from about 1800 to 1833, a town visited by Lewis and Clark as they ascended the Missouri
River in 1804. This bottle, made of English lead glass and therefore an imported article, was
unearthed from a grave in the Indian burying ground. Throughout history the claims made in
behalf of patent medicines have been extreme. This Turlington bottle, however, affords one
of the few cases on record wherein such a medicine has been felt to possess a postmortem utility.[103]

      [103] Wedel and Griffenhagen, op. cit. (footnote 54).

Fur traders were still using old English patent medicines at mid-century. Four dozen bottles
of Turlington's Balsam were included in an "Inventory of Stock the property of Pierre Chouteau,
Jr. and Co. U[pper], M[issouri]. On hand at Fort Benton 4th May 1851...."[104] In the very
same year, out in the new State of California, one of the early San Francisco papers listed
Stoughton's Bitters as among the merchandise for sale at a general store.[105]

      [104] A. McDonnell, Contributions to the Historical Society of
      Montana, 1941, vol. 10, pp. 202, 217.

      [105] California Daily Courier, San Francisco, April 25, 1851.

Newspaper advertising of the English proprietaries--even the mere listing so common during
the late colonial years--became very rare after the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy pamphlet
was issued. Apothecary George J. Fischer of Frederick, Maryland, might mention seven of the
old familiar names in 1837,[106] and another druggist in the same city might present a shorter
list in 1844,[107] but such advertising was largely gratuitous. Since the English patent medicines
had become every druggist's property, people who felt the need of such dosage would expect
every druggist to have them in stock. There was no more need to advertise them than there was
to advertise laudanum or leeches or castor oil. Even the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in
1837 took judicial cognizance of the fact that the old English patent medicine names had acquired
a generic meaning descriptive of a general class of medicines, names which everyone was free
to use and no one could monopolize.[108]

      [106] Political Examiner, Frederick, Maryland, April 19, 1837.

      [107] Frederick Examiner, Frederick, Maryland, January 31,
      1844.

      [108] Massachusetts Supreme Court, Thomson vs. Winchester, 19
      Pick (Mass.), p. 214, March 1837.

As the years went by, and as advertising did not keep the names of the old English medicines
before the eyes of customers, it is a safe assumption that their use declined. Losing their
original proprietary status, they were playing a different role. New American proprietaries
had stolen the appeal and usurped the function which Bateman's Drops and Turlington's Balsam
had possessed in 18th-century London and Boston and Williamsburg. As part of the cultural nationalism
that had accompanied the Revolution, American brands of nostrums had come upon the scene, promoted
with all the vigor and cleverness once bestowed in English but not in colonial American advertising
upon Dalby's Carminative and others of its kind. While these English names retreated from American
advertising during the 19th century, vast blocks of space in the ever-larger newspapers were
devoted to extolling the merits of Dyott's Patent Itch Ointment, Swaim's Panacea, and Brandreth's
Pills. More and more Americans were learning how to read, as free public education spread.
Persuaded by the frightening symptoms and the glorious promises, citizens with a bent toward
self-dosage flocked to buy the American brands. Druggists and general stores stocked them and
made fine profits.[109] While bottles of British Oil sold two for a quarter in 1885 Wisconsin,
one bottle of Jayne's Expectorant retailed for a dollar.[110] It is no wonder that, although
the old English names continue to appear in the mid-19th-century and later druggists' catalogs
and price currents,[111] they are muscled aside by the multitude of brash American nostrums.
Many of the late 19th century listings continued to follow the procedure set early in the century
of specifying two grades of the various patent medicines, i.e., "English" and "American," "genuine"
and "imitation," "U.S." and "stamped." American manufactories specializing in pharmaceutical
glassware continued to offer the various English patent medicine bottles until the close of
the century.[112]

      [109] James Harvey Young, "Patent medicines: the early
      post-frontier phase," Journal of the Illinois State Historical
      Society, Autumn 1953, vol. 46, pp. 254-264.

      [110] Cody and Johnson Drug Co., op. cit. (footnote 97).

      [111] Van Schaack, Stevenson & Reid, Annual prices current,
      Chicago, 1875; Morrison, Plummer & Co., Price current of drugs,
      chemicals, oils, glassware, patent medicines, druggists sundries
      ..., Chicago, 1880.

      [112] Hagerty Bros. & Co., Catalogue of Druggists' glassware,
      sundries, fancy goods, etc., New York, 1879; Whitall, Tatum &
      Co., Annual price list, Millville, New Jersey, 1898.

In a thesaurus published in 1899, Godfrey's, Bateman's, Turlington's, and other of the old
English patent remedies were termed "extinct patents."[113] The adjective referred to the status
of the patent, not the condition of the medicines. If less prominent than in the olden days,
the medicines were still alive. The first edition of the National Formulary, published in 1888,
had cited the old English names as synonyms for official preparations in four cases, Dalby's,
Bateman's, Godfrey's and Turlington's.

      [113] Emil Hiss, Thesaurus of proprietary preparations and
      pharmaceutical specialties, Chicago, 1899, p. 12.

Thus as the present century opened, the old English patent medicines were still being sold.
City druggists were dispensing them over their counters, and the peddler's wagon carried them
to remote rural regions.[114] But the medical scene was changing rapidly. Improvements in medical
science, stemming in part from the establishment of the germ theory of disease, were providing
a better yardstick against which to measure the therapeutic efficiency of proprietary remedies.
Medical ethics were likewise advancing, and the occasional critic among the ranks of physicians
was being joined by scores of his fellow practitioners in lambasting the brazen effrontery
of the hundreds of American cure-alls which advertised from newspaper and roadside sign. Journalists
joined doctors in condemning nostrums. Samuel Hopkins Adams in particular, writing "The Great
American Fraud" series for Collier's Weekly, frightened and aroused the American public with
his exposure of cheap whiskey posing as consumption cures and soothing syrups filled with opium.
Then came a revolution in public policy. After a long and frustrating legislative prelude,
Congress in June of 1906 passed, and President Theodore Roosevelt signed, the first Pure Food
and Drugs Act. The law contained clauses aimed at curtailing the worst features of the patent
medicine evil.

      [114] Robert B. Nixon, Jr., Corner druggist, New York, 1941,
      p. 68.

The Patent Medicines In The 20th Century

Although the old English patent medicines had not been the target at which disturbed physicians
and "muck-raking" journalists had taken aim, these ancient remedies were governed by provisions
of the new law. In November 1906 the Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of Agriculture,
in charge of administering the new federal statute, received a letter from a wholesale druggist
in Evansville, Indiana. One of his stocks in trade, the druggist wrote, was a remedy called
Godfrey's Cordial. He realized that the Pure Food and Drugs Act had something to do with the
labeling of medicines containing opium, as Godfrey's did, and he wanted to know from the Bureau
just what was required of him.[115] Many manufacturing druggists and producers of medicine
were equally anxious to learn how the law would affect them. The editors of a trade paper,
the American Druggist and Pharmaceutical Record, issued warnings and gave advice. It was still
the custom, they noted, to wrap bottles of ancient patent medicines, like Godfrey's Cordial
and Turlington's Balsam, in facsimiles of the original circulars, on which were printed extravagant
claims and fabulous certificates of cures that dated back some two hundred years. The new law
was not going to permit the continuation of such 18th-century practices. Statements on the
label "false or misleading in any particular" were banned.[116]

      [115] Letter from Charles Leich & Co. to Harvey Washington Wiley,
      Bureau of Chemistry, Department of Agriculture, November 2, 1906.
      Manuscript original in Record Group 97, National Archives,
      Washington, D.C.

      [116] American Druggist and Pharmaceutical Record, 1906, vol.
      49, pp. 343-344.

A few manufacturers, as the years went by, fell afoul of this and other provisions of the law.
In 1918 a Reading, Pennsylvania, firm entered a plea of guilty and received a fifty dollar
fine for putting on the market an adulterated and misbranded version of Dr. Bateman's Pectoral
Drops.[117] The law required that all medicines sold under a name recognized in the United
States pharmacopoeia or the National formulary, and Bateman's was included in the latter, must
not differ from the standard of strength, quality, or purity as established by these volumes.
Yet the Bateman Drops produced in Reading, the government charged, fell short. They contained
only 27.8 percent of the alcohol and less than a tenth of the morphine that they should have
had. While short on active ingredients, the Drops were long on claims. The wrapper boasted
that the medicine was "effective as a remedy for all fluxes, spitting of blood, agues, measles,
colds, coughs, and to put off the most violent fever; as a treatment, remedy, and cure for
stone and gravel in the kidneys, bladder, and urethra, shortness of breath, straightness of
the breast; and to rekindle the most natural heat in the bodies by which they restore the languishing
to perfect health." Okell and Dicey had scarcely promised more. By 20th-century standards,
the government asserted, these claims were false and fraudulent.

      [117] Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Notices of
      Judgment under the Food and Drugs Act, Notice of Judgment 6222,
      United States vs. Pabst Pure Extract Co., 1919.

Other manufacturers sold Bateman's Drops without running afoul of the law. In 1925, ninety-nine
years after the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy pamphlet was printed, one North Carolina firm
was persuaded that it still was relevant to tell potential customers, in a handbill, that its
Drops were being made in strict conformity with the College formula.[118] For Compound Tincture
of Opium and Gambir Compound, however, most manufacturers chose to follow the National formulary
specifications, which remained official until 1936.

      [118] Original handbill, distributed by Standard Drug Co.,
      Elizabeth City, North Carolina, 1925, preserved in the files of
      the Bureau of Investigation, American Medical Association,
      Chicago, Ill.

