It seems a committee of the editors and owners of the Journal, named respectively Tom, Dick
and Harry, of widely various characteristics, visited the Giant last week, and treat the subject
on their return by articles published in that highly original sheet, according to their respective
peculiarities.  Tom, who is evidently admired in his family circle as a man of great humor,
has so cultivated that faculty that it presents an abnormal development, and if petrification
ever does overtake him, posterity may hope it will not operate upon his intellectual faculties.
Dick, on the other hand, is gloomily satirical, and by the aid of that useful faculty utterly
annihilates his opponents without saying anything.  But last, Harry takes up the theme and
treats it in a spirit becoming the gravity of the subject.

He thinks that the artist formed the figure according to a pattern, having a cold "corpse"
conveniently by as a model, from which he could take "careful measurement," and proceeded to
make this figure, not attempting, he says, to make this corpse look like a "living figure,"
which certainly was modest in the artist.  He also says that he did not attempt to "supply
the missing hair." The question very naturally arises here, "Why was the hair missing, and
how long had the corpse been a corpse to lose its hair? and was it a pleasant occupation to
do business with such a corpse?" This omission (i.e. to put on hair), Harry says, arose from
"inexperience."

Now, experience is certainly an excellent thing, and when properly acquired and wisely used
is undoubtedly of considerable benefit to mankind.  But that it was necessary, in order to
enable an artist to know that hair grows on the human head, we had not before supposed.  Into
such absurdities, oh Harry, does he run who abandons his familiar scissors for the unaccustomed
pen.

I will briefly refer to the letter of Rev. S.R. Calthrop in favor of the statue theory.  While
it shows the scholarship of its author, his thorough appreciation of artistic influences, and
the wonderful imitation of nature produced by the one who formed this figure, it does not seem
to me to go very far towards proving his position. Starting off with the idea that many reasons
may be given against the theory of petrification, he commences with number one, and then he
stops;  it is true he gives one other reason, but neglects to number it;  and the two reasons are--

First, that evidences of stratification appear on the body, thereby assuming that they would
not appear in a petrified body;  and, secondly, that the separate members of the body are not
detached from each other as they were in life, assuming also that this does occur in cases
of petrifaction.

Are these assumptions correct as matters of fact?

The evidence as to the existence of strata in this body is very conflicting.  A number of professional
persons who visited this figure on Saturday, and subjected it to close scrutiny with a powerful
magnifying glass, and who all, by the way, hold the "statue theory," say there were no evidences
of stratification in the body;  that what appears to be such is simply the difference in shading,
produced by the greater or less density of the material composing the figure.  The appearances
indicating stratification are also explainable by the action of the water, charged with carbonate
of lime, upon the body.  The line of contact between the body and the water would necessarily
receive a deposit of lime, causing a straight line of lighter color to appeal oi the body.
It is also a fact, which I have learned from quite a number who first visited the body when
it was submerged in water, that the present water level leaves exposed the nose, eyebrow and
breast at the points where some persons now think they see stratification.  In fact, deposits
of carbonate of lime of a whitish color, even now, adhere to the left ear and side of the face
which show the presence of that substance in the water, and that it will adhere to and become
a part of the subject with which it is brought in contact.

Now, how is stratification produced in the formation of stone and rocks.  It is said by geologists
to be formed only when the original material forming the rock or stone has been transported
and deposited by the operation of a body of water holding the material in solution, and depositing
it in alternate layers at its place of destination.

How is a petrified body formed?  Science answers, that it is formed by the gradual infiltration
of silicious earth, pyrites of iron, carbonate or sulphate of lime, into the pores of the body,
taking the place of the decaying parts, and substituting a new and original substance to take
the place and form of the body petrified.  These substances are always conveyed to their place
of destination, and then applied to accomplish their purpose by the operation of water. The
petrified substance may have none of the material composing the original figure, and the nature
of the body formed either assimilates to the material around it, or is determined by that of
which it is composed.  So also all of the substances forming petrifaction may be found together
in the same subject, or they may accomplish their work separately.

Silicious earth goes largely to form flint quartz and the various kinds of sandstone carbonate
of lime, of limestone, and so of the other materials mentioned forming their peculiar kinds
of stone.  I have heard one statue-theorist trying to prove that the decayed portion of one
of the legs showed the presence of flint, and therefore he argued it could not be a petrifaction.
Not so.  It probably would prove, if true, that the figure was not a statue, for pieces of
flint are not found in such material, unless it be a petrifaction, in which case silicious
earth would account for it. Now it is safe to say that there is no substance that enters into
the composition of stone that does not enter into the formation of a petrifaction.

Now, these materials are, in cases of petrifaction, brought to the spot and deposited by action
of the water--precisely such an operation as forms strata of rock;  should it not produce the
same effect in the appearance of successive layers or strata in the subject of petrifaction?
With reference to the other objection to the theory of petrifaction, viz:--that the members
of the body are conjoined and not detached--it is sufficient to say, from the very nature of
the operation of petrifaction, portions of the body lying in contact would necessarily be conjoined
and filled up.  The wasting portions of the body are silently but surely supplied by nature,
and as the transformation progresses, nature causes her deposit to adhere to its proximate
kindred matter, and forms thus a solid and adhering body.

It is also somewhat worthy of observation that fossiliferous remains occur more frequently,
than elsewhere, in marshy and swampy places in this country.  Thus the low marshes known as
the "Blue Licks" in Kentucky, and other similar places abound in specimens of fossil remains.
These are often, indeed, quite commonly found near the surface of the ground, and it is a fact
that the material and formation of marshy grounds change less through the operation of time
than other places.  The Pantine Marshes and the Marshfield Fens have preserved forms and characteristics
for centuries upon centuries.  Why is it then, that we are to be driven for a solution of the
question as to the character of this curiosity to a hundred improbable and unnatural suppositions,
when the thing may be explained by perfectly natural causes without violating any probabilities?

It is somewhat amusing to talk with the various advocates of the "statue theory," as each successive
one is sure to knock over his predecessor's structure before he begins to build his own.

The endless suppositions which are produced to account for this marvelous work as a production
of the sculptor are certainly a great credit to the imaginative faculties or inventive genius
of our people, but people of ordinary intelligence find it hard to believe that men of wonderful
genius and skill inhabited our original forests for the purpose of producing gems of art and
then burying them in the marshes, or that men of culture and education go traveling in a wild
and barbarous country encumbered by a piece of statuary weighing about two tons and being necessarily
somewhat inconvenient to carry in our pockets. Yours,  Com.

OPINION OF PROFESSOR HALL, STATE GEOLOGIST.

Professor Hall, gives the following definite opinion, in the Albany Argus of Monday, the 20th
of October:

GENTLEMEN:--Your paragraph in this morning's issue, relative to the Onondagas Stone Giant,
does injustice to the proprietor of that most remarkable object.

Dr. Woolworth and Prof. Hall left here on Thursday afternoon, with the intent of visiting,
as they had been solicited to do, the supposed fossil giant or statue--for there were conflicting
opinions in regard to its nature.  On Friday morning they left Syracuse for Cardiff with Dr.
Wieting and Judge Woolworth of the former place. As soon as practicable after their arrival,
the tent was cleared of visitors, the party named were admitted and left to their undisturbed
investigations for a full quarter of an hour;  and when it is understood that the crowd outside
were enough to twice fill the tent, and all desirous of seeing, and that the receipts of the
owner for tickets were $26 per hour, it seemed scarcely civil to occupy a longer time.

The Giant, as has already been stated, is a statue of crystalline gypsum (not a cast) lying
upon its back, or slightly inclining to the right side, and in an attitude of rest or sleep.
The head is directed to the east, southeast, and the body, without support or pedestal, lies
upon a thin stratum of gravel, which has been covered by about three feet or more of fine silt,
in the bottom of which are some partially decayed roots or branches of trees-- doubtless floated
there at the beginning of the silt deposit. The water, oozing from the southwest, along this
gravel bed, has dissolved that side of the statue and gives it a pitted appearance, such as
masses of gypsum or limestone acquire when long exposed to the action of the water.  The earth
at the sides of the pit bear no evidence of having been disturbed since its original deposition,
and, to all appearances, this statue lay upon the gravel when the deposition of the fine silt
or soil began, and upon the surface of which the forests have grown for succeeding generations

Altogether, it is the most remarkable object yet brought to light in this country, id altogether,
perhaps, not dating back to the stone age, is, nevertheless, deserving of the attention of
archaeologists.  H.  Albany, NY, October 23, 1869.

From the Syracuse Journal Oct. 25, 1869.

MORE THAN A NINE DAYS' WONDER.

The Onondaga Giant proves to be much more than a nine days' wonder. --Sunday completed the
nine days of excitement and marvelings over this remarkable discovery, and instead of an abatement
of the popular interest, it would seem that it has but just begun to be awakened.  The attendance
of visitors on Sunday was largely in excess of that of any previous day, and the number reached
nearly three thousand.  A new and large tent had been (erected, with increased accommodations,
but it was found wholly inadequate to accomodate the crowds that occupied it from early morning
till late in the evening.  The agent for the proprietors raised a British flag over the tent,
explaining that he thought some flag ought to be displayed, and that this was the only one
he had there --a circumstance that was quite distasteful to very many of the visitors.  An
American flag has now properly been substituted. The number of visitors to-day is quite large,
and as the people of the surrounding country are just waking up to the interest of the exhibition,
many thousands will yet go to see it in the spot where it was unearthed.

The interest in the subject abroad is also now fairly developing. The discovery was at first
looked upon as a humbug, but this view is giving way before the facts presented in the local
papers.  The leading journals of the country have sent special correspondents to write up the
subject.  The New York Tribune and Herald, Harper's Weekly, the Springfield Republican and
other papers, have already had their representatives at the scene of the discovery.

THE VALUE OF THE GIANT WONDER.

We learn from a reliable source that $20,000 was offered on Saturday by a perfectly responsible
party and in good faith, to two different persons holding interests in the stone giant, for
one-quarter share of the stock in the wonderful statue, and the offer was promptly declined.

AN ANCIENT COIN FOUND IN THE EARTH TAKEN FROM THE GIANT'S BED.

On Saturday last, Mathew, a son of Dr. Alexander Henderson, veterinary surgeon, of this city,
while visiting the Cardiff giant, picked up from the surrounding debris thrown out of the excavated
resting place of this huge work of stone something that seemed like a blackened scale of brass
or a rusty old button.  Thinking that it might have some affinity to the wonderful statue,
the lad rubbed the dirt and rust from its surface between his finger and thumb, and burnishing
it a little by rubbing it in the folds of his coat skirts, it showed evidence of being an old
copper coin, and he accordingly placed it carefully in is pocket, and brought it home.  Dr.
Henderson, the lad's father, applied some acids to it, when an ancient coin, of nearly the
eleventh century, revealed itself.

On the obverse side of the coin is the head of the Emperor Jestyn, with a full flowing beard
from the chin, and the sacred heart strung from a rosary in the shape of a shield, or breast-plate,
strung around the neck.  Beneath the Emperor is the date, "1091," and around the edge of the
coin is the following inscription-- "JESTYN-AP-GURGAN, TYWYSOG-MORGANWG."  The interpretation
of this, as rendered by a competent Welshman, means, "Jestyn, son of Gurgan, Prince of Glanmorgan."
On the reverse side is the figure of the Goddess of Commerce, seated on the wheel at her side,
the pillar and ancient crown, wreathed with the national emblem, the oak, the shield and spear
supported by the left hand, and the right hand pointing to a ship on the distant sea, with
full sails set, which she seems intently gazing at.  The inscription around the circle is in
the Welch language, and reads as follows:--"Y. BRENAIN-AR- GYFRAITH," the interpretation of
which is "The King and the Laws." The coin is 778 years old--over seven and a half centuries--and
on the edge of the rim can be distinctly seen "Glenmorgan Half Penny," with representations
of leaves intertwining.  The denomination of the coin is imprinted in raised letters, and everything
connected with it shows it to be a coin of the reign of the emperor whose name it bears.  Further,
in connection with the unearthing of the stone giant, its discovery in the loose dirt thrown
up from the bed of the excavation where the statue was found, and yet lies, is certainly quite
interesting, and seems to add to the general interest that attaches to this great and unexplained
mystery of the Nineteenth Century.

PROBABILITIES THAT IT WAS TRANSPORTED ON THE WATER-COURSES FROM THE SEA-BOARD.

Although there are still intelligent advocates of the petrifaction theory, the preponderating
weight of opinion supports the view that the giant wonder is a work of art.  We understand
all the scientific gentlemen, who have been permitted to make thorough examination, to be agreed
in this decision.

The next question is, How did it come to be where it was discovered? There is very little probability
that it was carved on the spot where it was recently exhumed;  the stone for that purpose was
not likely to have been found there or to have been taken there; and the situation where it
was discovered, a morass or water-bed, favors the theory that it was deposited there.  Setting
aside the belief, honestly entertained by many people in the immediate vicinity, that the statue
was surreptitiously placed in the slough where it was dug up a few days since, there is tenable
ground for the theory that it was taken there by some of the early white visitors to this section
of country.  This might have been done by transportation over the water-courses communicating
with the locality, either through the River St. Lawrence, Lake Ontario, the Oswego River, Onondaga
Lake and Onondaga Creek, or through the Hudson and Mohawk Rivers, Oneida Lake and River, Onondaga
Lake and Onondaga Creek. These waters were early navigated, and within the memory of persons
still living the principal means of transportation was by batteaux, which with considerable
loads were propelled along these water-courses. The Onondaga Creek was in those days navigable
for light-draft craft capable of conveying a much greater weight than this statue, at least
as far up its waters as the place of this discovery.

The place of the discovery is not in the original channel of the creek, but in a detour from
that channel.  It is not unreasonable to suppose that for some reason--from alarm, or from
a desire to secret the object,--the craft was run out of the main channel into this then open
water-way, where the statue was deposited.

The early Jesuit visitors to this vicinity may have had this statue in their keeping.  It may
have been fashioned by some of their number.  It is not impossible, that it may have been brought
here, or even have been carved out at some place not far distant, by other of the early visitors
to this region.  We expect that light will be thrown upon these speculations, by the scientific
investigations, which will determine the exact nature of the material of which the statue is
composed, by which alone some hint of its place of origin may be derived.  The intimations
given us by Professor Hall, in our brief interview with him, impressed us that he looked upon
the statue as of great antiquity, antedating the present geologic period, and equaling in interest
and importance the discoveries made in Mexico of archaeological remains, indicating a high
degree of civilization in the tenth, eleventh and twelfth centuries.

WHEN WAS THE STATUE PUT WHERE IT WAS FOUND?

To the Editor of the Syracuse Journal:-- If it would not be asking too much, I would beg leave
to say a few words through the columns of your paper.  In Saturday's issue of the Standard
I notice a letter written by "Skeptic," which that paper calls "silly," and charges the writer
with being "lacking in the upper story."  This is a misfortune, truly;  but I have taken some
trouble to investigate these reports and find them vouched for by highly respectable parties.
There are, to my mind, several reasons for the belief that this wonder has not occupied its
present position longer than is intimated in the above mentioned letter.

The soil where it was found is soft, and an excavation large enough to admit the object could
easily be made in an hour or two.  The location is favorable for such purpose, being behind
the buildings, and hidden by the abrupt bank;  a little straw or other litter would cover all
traces.  Then, if the stone man be moulded from cement, it would not weigh near what it would
if cut from stone, and could be handled with ease by three or four men.  This idea that the
curiosity was cast or moulded, is strengthened by the fact that it has no other support than
the ground upon which it rests.  Had it been the work of a sculptor it would have had a tablet
for support.  Now, you ask, perhaps, where was the pattern made, if moulded, and how could
the parties making the cast escape detection?  I would ask, who carved it, if a stone, and
where did the sculptor bring out such a work without the knowledge of the fact being discovered?

It is said by those who ought to know something about our gypsum quarries, that there are no
such slabs of stone found there out of which this object could be carved.  Further, it is allowed
by all who have examined this wonder, that the head appears to have been hollow.  Now, if the
head is hollow, it is either a moulding or else it must be what those interested claim for
it:  a veritable petrifaction.  No sculptor would carve the head in that condition.

But I have used too much of your valuable time, so I will close. TULLY, Oct. 23d, 1869.   
CONE WILLIAMS

OF WHAT SCHOOL OF ART IS THIS STATUE?

To the Editor of the Syracuse Journal:-- In the discussions relating to the "Giant," I find
there are many who favor the Grecian and Roman school of sculpture.  The Greeks and Romans
excelled the early Egyptians in one thing only, that is representing the human hair.  Their
male statues have flowing and bushy locks and a beard. On the Egyptian statue, the hair looks
more like a skull cap on the back of the head, than hair, with no indication of beard.  They
had been so afflicted with plagues through the Israelites, that they would have nothing that
was like them, or that reminded them of them.  The Cardiff giant has no beard and nothing on
the forehead to indicate hair;  behind the ears running up to the crown, there seems to be
something, that when he is raised, may show the Egyptian school of sculpture. As art goes from
one country to another, the style changes somewhat to suit the taste of the people.  In America,
at first, our sculptors and painters copied from the French and Italian schools, but put on
a little more drapery, as our people were modest and would not bear a true copy.  Time, the
destroyer of all things, has turned the drapery into dust, and we now have the original in
all its glory and shame.  W.

P.S.--A hard-shell brother at my elbow says he will go his bottom dollar that the Cardiff chap
is the original "Poor Uncle Ned, who had no hair on the top of his head;"  he has lain down
there and got Klu-Kluxed. (Klu-Kluxed is a Greek word, and means petrified or dried up.)  The
only objection to his theory is, Uncle Ned's shin bone curved backward, this man's curves forward.

CUT OF THE GIANT.

We herewith present a wood cut of the Giant.  We have waited for an engraving from a photograph,
in order to insure in every part of the pamphlet the utmost accuracy.  The taking the photographs
having been delayed, we present a sketch until their completion. The owners of the Giant furnish
this publication alone with photographic copies--which will appear promptly on completion.

[[Wood cut here of giant and spectators]]

A MITE IN THE SCALE.

To the Editor of the Syracuse Journal:-- Clark's "History of Onondaga," Vol. 1, page 43, near
the bottom, says:--"The Quis-quis, or great hog, was another monster which gave the Onondagas
great trouble, as did also the great bear, the horned water-serpent, the stone giants, and
many other equally fabulous inventions, bordering so closely upon the truly marvelous, that
the truth would suffer wrongfully if related in full;  but nevertheless are found among the
wild and unseemly traditions of the race."  H.

LETTER FROM PROF. WARD.

