"Heigho!--Lud, Lud!--Dull as ditch water!--This is my only holiday, yet I don't seem to enjoy
it!--for I feel knocked up with my week's work! (A yawn.) What a life mine is, to be sure!
Here am I, in my eight-and-twentieth year, and for four long years have been one of the shopmen
at Tag-rag & Co.'s, slaving from half-past seven o'clock in the morning till nine at night,
and all for a salary of thirty-five pounds a-year, and my board! And Mr. Tag-rag--eugh! what
a beast!--is always telling me how high he's raised my salary!! Thirty-five pounds a-year is
all I have for lodging, and turning out like a gentleman! 'Pon my soul! it can't last; for
sometimes I feel getting desperate--such strange thoughts come into my mind!--Seven shillings
a-week do I pay for this cursed hole--(he uttered these words with a bitter emphasis, accompanied
by a disgustful look round the little room)--that one couldn't swing a cat in without touching
the four sides!--Last winter three of our gents (i. e. his fellow-shopmen) came to tea with
me one Sunday night; and bitter cold as it was, we four made this cussed dog-hole so hot, we
were obliged to open the window!--And as for accommodation--I recollect I had to borrow two
nasty chairs from the people below, who on the next Sunday borrowed my only decanter, in return,
and, hang them, cracked it!--Curse me, say I, if this life is worth having! It's all the very
vanity of vanities--as it's said somewhere in the Bible--and no mistake! Fag, fag, fag, all
one's days, and--what for? Thirty-five pounds a-year, and 'no advance!' (Here occurred a pause
and revery, from which he was roused by the clangor of the church-bells.) Bah, bells! ring
away till you're all cracked!--Now do you think I'm going to be mewed up in church on this
the only day out of the seven I've got to sweeten myself in, and sniff fresh air? A precious
joke that would be! (A yawn.) Whew!--after all, I'd almost as lieve sit here; for what's the
use of my going out? Everybody I see out is happy, excepting me, and the poor chaps that are
like me!--Everybody laughs when they see me, and know that I'm only a tallow-faced counter-jumper--I
know that's the odious name we gents go by!--for whom it's no use to go out--for one day in
seven can't give one a bloom! Oh, Lord! what's the use of being good-looking, as some chaps
say I am?"--Here he instinctively passed his left hand through a profusion of sandy-colored
hair, and cast an eye towards the bit of fractured looking-glass which hung against the wall,
and had, by faithfully representing to him a by no means ugly set of features (despite the
dismal hue of his hair) whenever he chose to appeal to it, afforded him more enjoyment than
any other object in the world, for years. "Ah, by Jove! many and many's the fine gal I've done
my best to attract the notice of, while I was serving her in the shop--that is, when I've seen
her get out of a carriage! There has been luck to many a chap like me, in the same line of
speculation: look at Tom Tarnish--how did he get Miss Twang, the rich pianoforte-maker's daughter?--and
now he's cut the shop, and lives at Hackney, like a regular gentleman! Ah! that was a stroke!
But somehow it hasn't answered with me yet; the gals don't take! How I have set my eyes to
be sure, and ogled them!--All of them don't seem to dislike the thing--and sometimes they'll
smile, in a sort of way that says I'm safe--but it's been no use yet, not a bit of it!--My
eyes! catch me, by the way, ever nodding again to a lady on the Sunday, that had smiled when
I stared at her while serving her in the shop--after what happened to me a month or two ago
in the Park! Didn't I feel like damaged goods, just then? But it's no matter, women are so
different at different times!--Very likely I mismanaged the thing. By the way, what a precious
puppy of a chap the fellow was that came up to her at the time she stepped out of her carriage
to walk a bit! As for good looks--cut me to ribbons (another glance at the glass) no; I a'n't
afraid there, neither--but--heigho!--I suppose he was, as they say, born with a golden spoon
in his mouth, and had never so many a thousand a-year, to make up to him for never so few brains!
He was uncommon well-dressed, though, I must own. What trousers!--they stuck so natural to
him, he might have been born in them. And his waistcoat, and satin stock--what an air! And
yet, his figure was nothing very out of the way! His gloves, as white as snow; I've no doubt
he wears a pair of them a-day--my stars! that's three-and-sixpence a-day; for don't I know
what they cost?--Whew! if I had but the cash to carry on that sort of thing!--And when he'd
seen her into her carriage--the horse he got on!--and what a tip-top groom--that chap's wages,
I'll answer for it, were equal to my salary! (Here was another pause.) Now, just for the fun
of the thing, only suppose luck was to befall me! Say that somebody was to leave me lots of
cash--many thousands a-year, or something in that line! My stars! wouldn't I go it with the
best of them! (Another long pause.) Gad, I really should hardly know how to begin to spend
it!--I think, by the way, I'd buy a title to set off with--for what won't money buy? The thing's
often done; there was a great pawn-broker in the city, the other day, made a baronet of, all
for his money--and why shouldn't I?" He grew a little heated with the progress of his reflections,
clasping his hands with involuntary energy, as he stretched them out to their fullest extent,
to give effect to a very hearty yawn. "Lord, only think how it would sound!--

     "SIR TITTLEBAT TITMOUSE, BARONET;" or, "LORD TITMOUSE!!"

"The very first place I'd go to, after I'd got my title, and was rigged out in Tight-fit's
tip-top, should be--our cursed shop! to buy a dozen or two pair of white kid. Ah, ha! What
a flutter there would be among the poor pale devils as were standing, just as ever, behind
the counters, at Tag-rag and Co.'s when my carriage drew up, and I stepped, a tip-top swell,
into the shop. Tag-rag would come and attend to me himself! No, he wouldn't--pride wouldn't
let him. I don't know, though: what wouldn't he do to turn a penny, and make two and nine-pence
into three and a penny? I shouldn't quite come Captain Stiff over him, I think, just at first;
but I should treat him with a kind of an air, too, as if--hem! 'Pon my life! how delightful!
(A sigh and a pause.) Yes, I should often come to the shop. Gad, it would be half the fun of
my fortune! How they would envy me, to be sure! How one should enjoy it! I wouldn't think of
marrying till--and yet I won't say either; if I got among some of them out-and-outers--those
first-rate articles--that lady, for instance, the other day in the Park--I should like to see
her cut me as she did, with ten thousand a-year in my pocket! Why, she'd be running after me!--or
there's no truth in novels, which I'm sure there's often a great deal in. Oh, of course, I
might marry whom I pleased! Who couldn't be got with ten thousand a-year? (Another pause.)
I think I should go abroad to Russia directly; for they tell me there's a man lives there who
could dye this cussed hair of mine any color I liked--and--egad! I'd come home as black as
a crow, and hold up my head as high as any of them! While I was about it, I'd have a touch
at my eyebrows"---- Crash here went all his castle-building, at the sound of his tea-kettle,
hissing, whizzing, sputtering, in the agonies of boiling over; as if the intolerable heat of
the fire had driven desperate the poor creature placed upon it, which instinctively tried thus
to extinguish the cause of its anguish. Having taken it off, and placed it upon the hob, and
put on the fire a tiny fragment of fresh coal, he began to make preparations for shaving, by
pouring some of the hot water into an old tea-cup, which was presently to serve for the purposes
of breakfast. Then he spread out a bit of crumpled whity-brown paper, in which had been folded
up a couple of cigars, bought over-night for the Sunday's special enjoyment--and as to which,
if he supposed they had come from any place beyond the four seas, I imagine him to have been
slightly mistaken. He placed this bit of paper on the little mantel-piece; drew his solitary
well-worn razor several times across the palm of his left hand; dipped his brush, worn, within
half an inch, to the stump, into the hot water; presently passed it over so much of his face
as he intended to shave; then rubbed on the damp surface a bit of yellow soap--and in less
than five minutes Mr. Titmouse was a shaved man. But mark--don't suppose that he had performed
an extensive operation. One would have thought him anxious to get rid of as much as possible
of his abominable sandy-colored hair. Quite the contrary! Every hair of his spreading whiskers
was sacred from the touch of steel; and a bushy crop of hair stretched underneath his chin,
coming curled out on each side of it, above his stock, like two little horns or tusks. An imperial--i.
e. a dirt-colored tuft of hair, permitted to grow perpendicularly down the under-lip of puppies--and
a pair of promising mustaches, poor Mr. Titmouse had been compelled to sacrifice some time
before, to the tyrannical whimsies of his vulgar employer, Mr. Tag-rag, who imagined them not
to be exactly suitable appendages for counter-jumpers. Thus will it be seen that the space
shaved over on this occasion was somewhat circumscribed. This operation over, he took out of
his trunk an old dirty-looking pomatum pot. A modicum of its contents, extracted on the tips
of his two forefingers, he stroked carefully into his eyebrows; then spreading some on the
palms of his hands, he rubbed it vigorously into his stubborn hair and whiskers for some quarter
of an hour; afterwards combing and brushing his hair into half a dozen different dispositions--so
fastidious in that matter was Mr. Titmouse. Then he dipped the end of a towel into a little
water, and twisting it round his right forefinger, passed it gently over his face, carefully
avoiding his eyebrows, and the hair at the top, sides, and bottom of his face, which he then
wiped with a dry corner of the towel; and no farther did Mr. Tittlebat Titmouse think it necessary
to carry his ablutions. Had he, however, been able to "see himself as others saw him," in respect
of those neglected regions which lay somewhere behind and beneath his ears, he might not, possibly,
have thought it superfluous to irrigate them with a little soap and water; but, after all,
he knew best; it might have given him cold: and besides, his hair was very thick and long behind,
and might perhaps conceal anything that was unsightly. Then Mr. Titmouse drew from underneath
the bed a bottle of "incomparable blacking," and a couple of brushes; with great labor and
skill polishing his boots up to a wonderful degree of brilliancy. Having replaced his blacking
implements under the bed and washed his hands, he devoted a few moments to boiling about three
tea-spoonfuls of coffee, (as it was styled on the paper from which he took, and in which he
had bought, it--whereas it was, in fact, chiccory.) Then he drew forth from his trunk a calico
shirt, with linen wristbands and collar, which had been worn only twice--i. e. on the preceding
two Sundays--since its last washing--and put it on, taking great care not to rumple a very
showy front, containing three rows of frills; in the middle one of which he stuck three "studs,"
connected together with two little gilt chains, looking exceedingly stylish--especially when
coupled with a span-new satin stock, which he next buckled round his neck. Having put on his
bright boots, (without, I am really sorry to say, any stockings,) he carefully insinuated his
legs into a pair of white trousers, for the first time since their last washing; and what with
his short straps and high braces, they were so tight that you would have feared their bursting
if he should have sat down hastily. I am almost afraid that I shall hardly be believed; but
it is a fact, that the next thing he did was to attach a pair of spurs to his boots:--but,
to be sure, it was not impossible that he might intend to ride during the day. Then he put
on a queer kind of under-waistcoat, which in fact was only a roll-collar of rather faded pea-green
silk, and designed to set off a very fine flowered damson-colored silk waistcoat; over which
he drew a massive mosaic-gold chain, (to purchase which he had sold a serviceable silver watch,)
which had been carefully wrapped up in cotton wool; from which soft depository, also, he drew
HIS RING, (those must have been sharp eyes which could tell, at a distance, and in a hurry,
that it was not diamond,) which he placed on the stumpy little finger of his red and thick
right hand--and contemplated its sparkle with exquisite satisfaction. Having proceeded thus
far with his toilet, he sat down to his breakfast, spreading upon his lap the shirt which he
had taken off, to preserve his white trousers from spot or stain--his thoughts alternating
between his late waking vision and his purposes for the day. He had no butter, having used
the last on the preceding morning; so he was fain to put up with dry bread--and very dry and
teeth-trying it was, poor fellow--but his eye lit on his ring! Having swallowed two cups of
his quasi-coffee, (eugh! such stuff!) he resumed his toilet, by drawing out of his other trunk
his blue surtout, with embossed silk buttons and velvet collar, and an outside pocket in the
left breast. Having smoothed down a few creases, he put it on:--then, before his little vulgar
fraction of a looking-glass, he stood twitching about the collar, and sleeves, and front, so
as to make them sit well; concluding with a careful elongation of the wristbands of his shirt,
so as to show their whiteness gracefully beyond the cuff of his coat-sleeve--and he succeeded
in producing a sort of white boundary line between the blue of his coat-sleeve and the red
of his hand. At that useful member he could not help looking with a sigh, as he had often done
before--for it was not a handsome hand. It was broad and red, and the fingers were thick and
stumpy, with very coarse deep wrinkles at every joint. His nails also were flat and shapeless;
and he used to be continually gnawing them till he had succeeded in getting them down to the
quick--and they were a sight to set one's teeth on edge. Then he extracted from the first-mentioned
trunk a white pocket handkerchief--an exemplary one, that had gone through four Sundays' show,
(not use, be it understood,) and yet was capable of exhibition again. A pair of sky-colored
kid gloves next made their appearance: which, however, showed such barefaced marks of former
service as rendered indispensable a ten minutes' rubbing with bread-crumbs. His Sunday hat,
carefully covered with silver-paper, was next gently removed from its well-worn box--ah, how
lightly and delicately did he pass his smoothing hand round its glossy surface! Lastly, he
took down a thin black cane, with a gilt head, and full brown tassel, from a peg behind the
door--and his toilet was complete. Laying down his cane for a moment, he passed his hands again
through his hair, arranging it so as to fall nicely on each side beneath his hat, which he
then placed upon his head, with an elegant inclination towards the left side. He was really
not bad-looking, in spite of his sandy-colored hair. His forehead, to be sure, was contracted,
and his eyes were of a very light color, and a trifle too protuberant; but his mouth was rather
well-formed, and being seldom closed, exhibited very beautiful teeth; and his nose was of that
description which generally passes for a Roman nose. His countenance wore generally a smile,
and was expressive of--self-satisfaction: and surely any expression is better than none at
all. As for there being the slightest trace of intellect in it, I should be misleading the
reader if I were to say anything of the sort. In height, he was about five feet and a quarter
of an inch, in his boots, and he was rather strongly set, with a little tendency to round shoulders:--but
his limbs were pliant, and his motions nimble.

