And, by the way, we may as well ease our minds just here concerning another trick of the school
to which M. Renan belongs, and of which he furnishes many marked examples. We mean the trick
of arbitrarily deciding by what they are pleased to call 'philological criticism,' all about
all the books and nearly all the chapters in the Bible. 'Learned men are agreed that such and
such chapters were not written by Isaiah.' 'It is clear, from internal evidence of style, that
this book was made up of earlier scattered memoranda.' 'These chapters, it is evident, were
not written till such and such a time.' 'The best critics are agreed that this narration was
added long after the writing of the book.' This is the way they write, to the astonishment
of the simple.

When we were younger, this sort of talk seemed to our simplicity to be exceedingly imposing.
We actually believed that there were a set of people, in Germany, at least, who could look
at a Hebrew chapter and tell you who wrote it, when he wrote it, how he wrote it, and why;
and the who, when, how, and why, should be each different from those mentioned by the author
of the book himself. As years removed the credulous simplicity of childhood, we found out that
this was only a trick of the trade. We discovered that no two of these doctors agreed among
themselves, that the line of argument they followed would disprove the authorship of any page
ever written, that decisions from difference of style, wise as they might be, philologically,
were, rationally and logically, nonsensical; for Burns, no doubt, wrote his letters as well
as his poems, and Shakspeare's 'Sonnets' were written by the hand that wrote 'King Lear,' although,
according to these wise doctors, it is assumed to be utterly impossible that the same man can
use two styles, or that a man at seventy will write otherwise than he did at thirty. In short,
we discovered that there is nothing more arbitrary, more opinionated, and more unphilosophical
than this 'philological criticism.' Applied, as these wonderful German doctors apply it, to
any book ever penned, and it can be shown, 'as the result of high critical ability,' that no
author ever wrote his own book. It is the easiest thing in the world to prove that Shakspeare
never wrote 'Shakspeare,' that Milton never wrote 'Paradise Lost,' that 'Johnson's Dictionary'
just 'growed' like Topsey, and was never made at all, and, to name small things with great,
that M. Renan never wrote the 'Life of Jesus.'

When we read, then, that 'it is certain that Isaiah never wrote this chapter,' that 'St. John
could not possibly have written the fourth Gospel,' that 'this book is composed, undoubtedly,
of fragments of earlier writings,' or that 'this' other 'is the growth of a certain school,'
we advise simple Christians to take it easy. They are to understand that the world goes on
much as usual, and that their family Bibles still contain the old Table of Contents. There
has been no wonderful discovery made, no ancient book catalogues have come to light, no files
of ancient documents have been dug up. There are still just the old facts and the old evidence
on which Christians made up their minds sixteen or seventeen hundred years ago. The amount
of all this talk is only that 'the great Doctor Teufelsdroeck' or 'the learned Professor Von
Baum' has hazarded a guess, and made an assertion, which every other 'great doctor' and 'learned
professor' will contradict, and displace with another guess just as probable, in three months'
time. There are men just as learned and just as honest who have examined their guesses, and
find them poor inventions indeed. And we have a right to deny point blank the assertions so
flippantly made by men like M. Renan. 'It is universally acknowledged that this book was never
written by Daniel or Isaiah or Jeremiah,' 'It is certain this chapter is an addition of such
and such a date,' etc. It is not universally acknowledged. It is not certain. The whole thing
is pure guesswork. There is only one way to prove the authorship of a book, and that is by
testimony. There is nothing under the sun more absurd, philologically, than that a common and
very poor stock-actor should have written 'Hamlet.' We know he did write it, however, not by
'internal evidence,' or from 'philological criticism,' but by plain human testimony to the
fact. We cite that, and leave the 'internal' critics to their profound babble on vowels and
consonants, on long and short syllables, and let them do with the fact the best they can.

In other words, there is no way by which I can determine whether St. John wrote his Gospel
except by testimony. I do not know beforehand how St. John would write. I can therefore judge
nothing by 'style.' All I can do is to ask of competent witnesses. I do ask. I am told by such
witnesses, straight up to his own day, that he did write this Gospel, that this is the very
one which we now have, for they cite it and mention its peculiarities. I accept the fact, as
I do in the case of Shakspeare, and let the wise 'critics' settle it among them.

The attempt, therefore, on the part of M. Renan, to get rid of those large portions of the
Gospels which embarrass him in his theory, by attempting to discredit their authorship, while,
at the same time, he accepts other parts, that stand on the same authority, and the supercilious
way in which he ignores that large part which the miracles fill, turning them off with a small
witticism, or a smaller bit of sentiment, suggest, at the start, decided suspicions of the
honesty of his intentions and the sufficiency of his theory.

We only hint at these things here. They occur all through his book. They are not evidence of
learning or critical skill. There are no secrets for deciding such matters. The whole data
have been public for ages. All the 'members of the Institute' together do not possess one grain
of evidence that any ordinary scholar in America does not possess as well. M. Renan rejects,
or discredits, or garbles, or slips over silently, because he finds it necessary for his theory.
That is all. He pettifogs with his witnesses to establish his theory.

That theory is, that He, whom all Christians have called Our Lord, was a mere man, of what
race is uncertain, born in Galilee of a man named Joseph and of a woman named Mary; who taught
in Galilee and a little in Judea, and who was at last killed and buried, and so an end of Him.
This theory M. Renan has to find in the Gospels, and there is, as we have hinted, very little
of the Gospels left when he gets through. It is so palpably against them that he has to get
rid of the most of them to make it stand.

Now this theory, like all others, must be put to the test. Will it explain the facts? We have
seen how it is compelled to get rid of the Gospels. But we put that aside. Will it explain
the history of Christianity? Will it explain its place to-day? Will it account for its effects?

The Jesus of M. Renan is a strange character. He is more difficult of comprehension than any
mystery of orthodoxy. We ask where He gets His wondrous wisdom, this young carpenter, how He
learned to speak 'as man never spoke?' and M. Renan sentimentalizes. We ask how He got this
wondrous power over men, to lead them and control them, so that they followed Him and 'heard
Him gladly,' and M. Renan goes off into ecstasies over the 'delicious climate' and 'the lovely
villages,' and the Arcadian simplicity of Galilee, as he fancies they once were, and expects
us to be answered. His influence over women is accounted for more readily. M. Renan tells us,
in his peculiar way, that 'this beautiful young man' had great power over the 'nervous' susceptibilities
of Mary Magdalene; and Pilate's wife, having once seen him, 'dreamed about him' the next night,
and sent to her husband to save him in consequence!

However, He begins His teaching. Where He learned it, how He learned it, why it took the form
it did, how He came to give moral law to the world, where He found the words of wisdom and
consolation--the divine words of power--for all generations, there is positively not one sentence
of explanation. Of all the young Jews of His day, how came He by these powers and this omnipotent
wisdom? Now the Christian theory does attempt an explanation. It gives an ample answer to the
question. M. Renan gives no answer whatever. He flies to sentiment. We have all sorts of adjectives--'delicious,'
'enchanting, 'beautiful,' 'sweet,' 'charming'--he beats a whole female seminary at the business,
in attempting to describe how, like full-grown babes, everybody in Galilee lived, so innocent,
so simple, so Arcadian were they all--and that is all! What shall a man do, whom this fine
style of novel writing doesn't answer--to whom, in fact, it seems just a bit of disgusting
nonsense? Is this wonderful power, this omnipotent wisdom, a production of the 'delicious'
climate? Is this all 'philosophical criticism' has to offer, and is he to accept that as more
reasonable than the Gospel theory that they were supernatural and divine?

In this wonderful romantic dialect, M. Renan describes the beginning of our Lord's ministry.
He is embarrassed, however, by the fact that, as Jesus goes on, He Himself makes claims, and
sets up pretensions, and exercises powers, which are totally at variance with the proposed
explanation. M. Renan cannot deny that He claimed to be the Son of God, the Messiah, the Son
of David, that He claimed to work 'miracles,' to possess supernatural powers, to be somewhat
altogether different from the amiable, sentimental, young carpenter of his modern biographer.

How is this to be got on with? Why, by declaring boldly that Jesus was half deceiver and half
deceived! by accepting the difficulty, and confessing that He cheated men for their good--that,
as they wished to be deceived, He stooped to deceive them, and at last half deceived Himself!

We know nothing more thoroughly immoral than is M. Renan on this matter. This Jesus of his,
about whom he sentimentalizes, whom he declares a thousand times to be so 'charming,' and so
'divine,' and the rest, turns out to be a deliberate cheat and quack, putting out claims He
does not Himself believe, and acting in sham miracles which people coax Him, according to his
biographer, to perform.

The raising of Lazarus, for instance, which M. Renan would like to turn out of the Gospels,
but which he is forced to confess must stay--according to him, was a deliberate, planned, stage
performance, a gross piece of juggling imposition. Now we do not object per se to M. Renan's
taking that view of it. He has a perfect freedom of choice. We do object to the immorality,
the essential blindness to right and wrong, which lead him to apologize for the cheat, and
try to prove it a perfectly innocent and justifiable thing. We protest against confounding
eternal distinctions, against debauching conscience by proving wrong right, and a cheat an
innocent bit of acting, against claiming an impostor and a liar as the high priest of the world's
'absolute religion'!

But few of us, in this part of the world, can appreciate the transcendental reasoning that
makes an impostor half divine, or a cheat holy. 'Good faith and imposture,' to quote our author,
'are words which, in our rigid conscience, are opposed like two irreconcilable terms,' though,
he says, it is not so in 'the East,' from which our religion came, and was certainly far from
being so with our Teacher! We cannot admire M. Renan here. The writing is very fine. He exhausts
himself in his 'charming' style to make it all right, and show us that we have profound reason
to admire this lying teacher, this cheating miracle monger, whom he holds up between us and
the pure 'Son of Mary.' But it does not answer. In this cold climate a lie is a lie, a cheat
is a cheat, and a mountebank and impostor is not the teacher of 'the absolute religion of humanity!'

As M. Renan writes His life, that is the way in which the Founder of Christianity develops
Himself. First we have the young man, amiable, sweet, 'charming,' enacting a 'beautiful pastoral'
in the 'delicious climate of Galilee,' where it appears that nobody has anything to do save
to enact 'pastorals,' although we are told 'brigandage was common in Galilee,' which seems
a strange accompaniment to 'pastorals.' Where He got His wisdom, how He came by these 'transcendent
utterances,' which, we are told, 'some few' only, even now, are lofty enough to appreciate,
we are not informed. There they are. But, right in the midst of them, this wonderful young
man, uttering these 'charming' lessons, and these 'delicious' sayings, sets to work miracle-mongering,
trying His hand at thaumaturgy and legerdemain, becomes an impostor and a mountebank, pretending,
among other things, to raise a man who puts on a shroud, gets into a grave, and shams dead!
At last He is taken, and then, in view of death, becomes penitent, reforms, and recovers His
purity!

Now Thomas Paine was, in a way, an honest man. We can say that of him. Voltaire was, in his
degree, honest too. Having said what M. Renan says, they did not stultify themselves logically.
They honestly pronounced Christianity a delusion. We have respect for their consistency. But
our modern man says that a cheat in religion is no cheat, a lie no lie, that a true saving
faith can be built on a foundation of deception and trickery! He says it, and undertakes to
prove it by the convincing logic of sentimentality!

M. Renan here is just disgusting. There are a few things in this world that do not mix. Right
and wrong have something of a ditch between them. A lie is not own brother to the truth. If
he thinks it worth while to write the life of an impostor, very well; only, when he has declared
him so, and insisted on his being so, we humbly beg he will not turn round and insist on it
that the religion he taught is divine!

If the credulity of believers is great, what shall we say of the credulity of Messieurs the
philosophers, the unbelievers? But what shall we say of their morality?

But if this new theory fails to account for Christianity as a true system of religion, what
shall we say of its coherence with Christianity as a successful system in action? This sentimental
impostor conquers the civilized world. This 'charming' worker of sham wonders becomes a GOD
to the millions who to-day lead mankind!

Here is where M. Renan's theory utterly breaks down, where it becomes not only utterly illogical
and incoherent, but where it becomes too gross for any mortal credulity, and too blasphemously
wicked for any ordinary sinfulness.

It is utterly incoherent, for it requires us to believe that a system, begun in fraud and deception,
has proved itself the truest and most beneficent and sacred treasure to the world. M. Renan
insists on both. From such a premise he drags such a conclusion.

