So it came to pass that the Leaflanders were sore grieved at heart to see the weary Wood-thrush
deaf to all their entreaties, and bent alone on pursuing his solitary way. But as he wheeled
slowly above their heads, as he seemed just about to vanish into the blue distance, they heard
his faint voice--whether in terror or weakness they could not tell--only the words fell distinctly
on their ears,--

"I see! I see! I see! The Red-coats are coming!"

Faint and far and clarion-clear, it trembled through Leafland, low but ominous. Mapleton heard
it and wondered; Elmthorpe and Ashby and Nutham repeated it, looking into one another's eyes
for a meaning. Proud old Oakwich tried to assume a grave aspect, but was inwardly at her wits'
end. "The Red-coats are coming." All the ancient men and women, great-great-great-great-grandfathers
and grandmothers, whose childhood lay wellnigh lost in the infinite past of April days, said
it over to each other with thin, quavering voices; but all their experience gave them no key
to the mysterious message. Then the post-riders were brought into requisition. The whole corporation
of Gale, Breeze, Zephyr, & Co., Express Company, all their clerks, agents, and errand-boys,
were sent to and fro through the Commonwealth, to see if any one anywhere had a little light
to bestow upon the subject. Alas! the light came all too soon, and brought infinite sighing
and sobbing. A thought suddenly broke loose in Oakwich, and up spake an old Oakwichian. "Oh!
and oh! and woe is me for my miserable land now, now about to be bereft of her children! All
her strength destroyed, all her loveliness laid desolate!"

Straightway throughout Leafland rose the voice of wailing, "Woe! woe! woe! for the miserable
land!" but none of them knew what they were crying for; only the Oakwichian began it, and nothing
better occurred to them to do than to join in; which soon made the sunny day overcast, and
all the people walking in Netherworld where it approaches Leafland wrapped their old cloaks
about them, and said spitefully, "What a disagreeable, raw east-wind it is, to be sure!"

But by and by, when their throats were quite dry and sore with wailing, one of the Mapletonians,
a very sensible young woman, quite famous indeed for her wisdom, bethought herself to inquire
what it was all about. Then there was a very pretty outburst of indignation. For a moment they
forgot their grief, and, what was still worse, their good manners, and turned upon the unfortunate
young woman.

"And so you set yourself above your betters, and fiddle while Leafland is burning!" cried one.

"And pray, Miss Wiseacre," asked another, "how came you to know so much more than any one else?
Who told you that nothing was the matter?"

"Oh! if women would only mind the house, and not meddle with what does not belong to them!"
exclaimed a third.

All very unjust as you see, for surely the destruction of Leafland concerned the women as much
as the men, and poor "Miss Wiseacre" had not so much as made an assertion,--only asked a question.
However, the Leaflanders must be excused, because they were quite beside themselves with terror,
and, moreover, a question is sometimes more exasperating than fire and sword.

