 He was not given
very many good things to say, but he made up for this defect by dropping his aspirates and
talking in what I took to be a Serbian accent.

Not much subtlety was asked of Miss KYRLE BELLEW as Duval's lover, Berinthia; but she seemed
to have learned a little more sincerity and to depend less upon the prettiness of her face
and her frocks. Of Miss MIRIAM LEWES as Orange Moll something more was demanded, and I should
have enjoyed without reservation her very picturesque performance but for a certain stage-quality
in her voice which was out of all consonance with the part she had to play. Mr. JERROLD ROBERTSHAW
as Justice Hogben was a most attractive old reprobate; Mr. CHARLES ROCK as a strolling mummer
played like the sound actor he is; and indeed the whole cast--and not least in the smallest
parts, such as Mr. HARTFORD'S drunken Gaoler and Mr. PEASE'S Dognose, with his delightfully
unemotional "Ay! ay!"--did very well indeed.

If the play opens rather deliberately there is no lack of action when once it gets moving;
but it was an exercise of bodies rather than of minds. Swords flashed; barkers were flourished
(though they never went off); feet twinkled in the dance, and Mr. MURRAY CARRINGTON took several
astounding falls; but wits remained stationary. I do not wish to appear exigent, but as one
who likes to be amused as well as entertained I could easily have done with a little more scintillation.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

"INJER."

(To the Author of "The Grand Tour," "Punch," January 26th, 1916.)

  I read your lines the other day;
    You got it down in black an' white;
  You seen them places wot you say;
    Well, I seen Injer--and you're right.

  You never know. I took the bob
    The days o' Mons an' Charley Roy;
  Flanders, I thought, 'ud do my job,
    An' me no better than a boy.

  But some'ow Flanders got a miss,
    An' I came East, the same as you,
  Right East, an' finished up wi' this;
    I seen them towns and islands too.

  But Injer! Lor, it's like a book
    Or like a bloomin' fancy ball;
  There's somethin' every way you look,
    An' me--young me--I seen it all.

  I know about them "dark bazaars"--
    An' dark they is--I know them skies,
  An' suns an' moons an' silver stars
    An' 'ummin'-birds an' fiery-flies.

  I seen the palms an' parrokeets,
    I've 'eard the jackals in the night,
  I've ate them beas'ly Injian sweets
    An' smelt the Injian fires alight.

  But I'm with you, old P. an' O.;
    The goin' 'ome'll be the best;
  An' not the 'ome we useter know,
    But better, 'cos we've known the rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

TUBANTIA CRIME.

    "Sworn Evidence of Torpedo."

    Liverpool Daily Post.

We hope it confessed its crime.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The village is in utter darkness these nights, and many of the
    lamp-posts are getting severe knocks, not speaking of the foot
    pedestrians."--Ardrossan Herald.

Some of the foot pedestrians are said to have been less reticent about the lamp-posts.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Would patriotic owner LEND INCUBATOR or Foster increase British
    production, or buy cheap? Every care; experienced; eggs waiting;
    ineligible; clergy ref."--The Times.

It is a little cryptic; but we gather that, at any rate, the partial soundness of these eggs
will be guaranteed by the curate.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MIVINS'S NEW BOOKS.

Mr. Mivins begs to present

FOUR WONDERFUL WORKS

BY

Four astounding Authors.

       ***

PRINCE CHARMING.

By Egbert Gunn

(Third large edition already exhausted).

    "An incomparable achievement. The uniquest thing yet done by Mr.
    GUNN. He has eclipsed Balzac, wiped the floor with George Sand,
    while panting Tolstoi 'toils after him in vain.'"--Daily
    Exhaust.

       ***

POTLAND FOR EVER!

By Roland Sennett.

    "The greatest literary portent of all time. Here the Black
    Country is painted in all its inspissated gloom by a
    master-hand--sardonic, salubrious, superb.... We approach this
    work on all-fours. Any other attitude on the part of a reviewer
    would be sheer blasphemy."

    The Monthly Margarine.

       ***

THE UNPLUMBED ABYSS.

By Drax Homer.

    First great Notice: "By the side of Mr. Drax Homer, Edgar
    Allan Poe is a fumbler, and Gaboriau the veriest tiro. In these
    supremely arresting pages Mr. Drax Homer voices the cosmic
    mystery with unerring skill, and ranges over the whole gamut of
    the gruesome. He is the Napoleon of sensation, the Julius Cæsar
    of melodrama."--Daily Idolater.

       ***

The Book of the Day.

BRANDENBURG BABIES

By Guinevere Jaggers.

    "Of all the hundreds of English governesses privileged to enter
    the penetralia of Potsdam, Miss Jaggers had the longest
    innings and writes with most authority. Her record teems with
    astounding happenings, appalling revelations and grotesque
    episodes.... There is nothing to touch it in the annals of
    candour. Pepys is not in the same street and Benvenuto Cellini
    not in the same parish. We recommend it to the perusal of the
    Premier--if he has the courage to tackle it."

    The Oil and Vinegar Witness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before the Hyde Election--

    "Mr. Davies maintains his optimism. He has reprinted one of his
    cartoons showing him chattering the party walls of 'Jacobson's
    Jellicoe,' with the big gun of efficiency."

    Manchester Evening Chronicle.

But this attempt to drag the Navy into politics met with deserved failure.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Dwellers in the trenches are not the only fighters who know
    what it is to be up to the knees in seven feet of water."

    Liverpool Daily Post.

We believe the Anakim were greatly troubled in this way.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "MATLOCK'S VETERAN SOLDIER HONOURED.

    154 Years in the Army."

    High Peak News.

A veteran indeed.

       *       *       *       *       *

NURSERY RHYMES OF LONDON TOWN

IV.--Petticoat Lane.

  Up the Lane and down the Lane and all round about
  The Petticoats on washing-day are all hanging out;
  Some are made of linsey-woolsey, some are made of silk,
  Some of them are green as grass and some are white as milk;
  Frilled and flounced and quilted ones in Petticoat Lane,
  Some are worked in coloured nosegays, some of them are plain,
  Some are striped with red and blue as gaudy as can be,
  And one is sprigged with lavender, and that's the one for me.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Sir A. MOND said that the married men's grievance was that they
    might be called up before the tooth-combing process of which the
    right hon. gentleman had spoken had been carried out."--The
    Times.

It sounds painful. Personally we intend to stick to the old-fashioned brush.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. Lloyd George, replying to Mr. Cowan, said the total salary
    received by Lloyd Kitchener was £6,250."

    Portsmouth Evening News.

This is the first we have heard of this highly-remunerated official. We hope it is not a case
of nepotism.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

A literature of Antarcticana is gradually growing up, and the last volume, With Scott: The
Silver Lining (SMITH, ELDER), is a notable addition to it. Let me say at once that I opened
Mr. GRIFFITH TAYLOR'S book with some trembling because I saw the difficulties in the way of
its success. In the first place I recalled the simple dignity with which SCOTT wrote of his
exploits, and I felt that to fall away from this high standard would be to fail; secondly,
anyone writing now of this expedition must to a certain extent travel over ground already covered.
These are the main difficulties which Mr. TAYLOR had to fight against, and he has overcome
them. To a writer of his fluency and particular vein of humour it could not have been an easy
task to put a right restraint upon his pen. The only criticism I have to pass on his style
is that it could quite comfortably have done without the cloud of notes of exclamation in which
it is enveloped. Apart from its great scientific value the main interest of the book is found
in the light that it casts upon the characters of the author's companions. His observation
is always shrewd and always kindly; you are left to guess his dislikes from his omissions.
Mr. TAYLOR was himself in command, during SCOTT'S last expedition, of two parties, and of the
work done on these journeys he writes with the modesty characteristic of men who speak of dangers
and adventures in which they have personally taken part. One opinion of his I cannot refrain
from quoting; it is that the tragedy of SCOTT'S expedition was caused by Seaman EVANS'S illness.
"I believe that, short of abandonment, the party had no hope with a sick man on their hands."
No tale of heroism that the War has given us can obscure the noble loyalty of this sacrifice.
And to-day, when some of us have neither the time nor the taste for lighter things, there should
be a grateful welcome for a book that deals with men whose courage and endurance remain the
imperishable possession of our race.

       *       *       *       *       *

Somewhere towards the end of The Tragedy of an Indiscretion (LANE), we arrive at the Court
of Criminal Appeal, where, in the course of unravelling the plot, one of the judges is moved
to exclaim, "This is the most hopelessly complicated story I ever had the pain of listening
to!" His lordship certainly has my sympathy. Personally speaking, the first twenty pages of
it nearly gave me a nervous breakdown, so wild and whirling were the events into which it plunged.
Let me start the thing for you. Ronald Warrington, who was heir to the aged Duke of Glenstaffen,
eloped with Mrs. Greville, assuming for no very understandable reason the name of his friend
and secretary, Essendine. So, the pair being established at an hotel, the supposed Mr. E. goes
to a station to buy an evening paper, is fallen upon by the real one, and thrust into a train
to attend the deathbed of his ducal relative. Essendine himself, entering the hotel to explain
matters to the lady, finds (1) that she is the wife who divorced him before marrying Greville;
(2) that she has just died of heart disease. Next, being of a placidity almost inhuman, he
decides to bury the corpse as that of his wife, and not worry anyone with explanations. What
he didn't know then, or I either, was that another lady was at the moment gadding about London
in one of Mrs. Greville's cast-off frocks, and pretending to be that much-married female. And
when in due course she is murdered, and the strangely apathetic widower, Mr. Greville, who
never set eyes upon her, is arrested for the crime--well, you may begin to think that the judge's
remark was an understatement. What I should like to ask Mr. J. W. BRODIE-INNES is, if this
is his notion of an "indiscretion," what would he have to say of a real social error?

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE MUSEUM.

       *       *       *       *       *

The name of the author of Youth Unconquerable (HEINEMANN) is given on the title-page as Percy
Ross. But I would willingly take a small wager on the probability that this name conceals a
feminine identity. For one thing, no mere man surely would attempt the task of depicting the
sweet girl graduate in her native lair, often as the converse has been done. Certainly it is
improbable that he would manage to convey such an impression of actuality. For I am sure the
life of an Oxford ladies' college must be, for many, very much what it was for Cherry Hawthorn.
But I am afraid this is about all that I can honestly say in praise of the story. Cherry was
a young woman with red hair (it is bright vermilion in the ugly picture of her on the cover)
and no fortune. Her late father had made her the joint ward of two young men, one an Italian
prince, and one a semi-insane Welshman. Cherry accepted this provision with a promising placidity.
She, and I, anticipated marriage with one or other of the guardians. But that was before we
had seen them. The Italian turned out to be silly, while the Welshman recalled the gloomier
imaginings of the BRONTËS, and in the event came by an appropriately violent end. However there
was a third suitor, a Scotch Duke, so all was well. Perhaps the tale may have more success
with others than with me. But I am bound to warn you that the style of it is a wild and wonderful
thing. One is, for example, unprepared to find a gentleman's hat and stick referred to as "his
extra-mural accoutrements." And this is no rare example. The whole thing, in fact, seems more
suitable to a very popular magazine than to the dignity of that exclusive little windmill that
forms the HEINEMANN hall-mark.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Precisionists.

    "TRICYCLE for Sale cheap, 3 wheels."--Suburban Paper.