THRIFT.

BY SAMUEL SMILES,

"Be thrifty, but not covetous; therefore give
Thy need, thine honour, and thy friend his due,
Never was scraper brave man. Get to live,
Then live, and use it; else it is not true
   That thou hast gotten. Surely use alone
   Make money not a contemptible stone."
                              GEORGE HERBERT.
                              ROBERT BURNS.

FIFTIETH THOUSAND.

LONDON: JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET. 1892.

This book is intended as a sequel to "Self-Help," and "Character." It might, indeed, have appeared
as an introduction to these volumes; for Thrift is the basis of Self-Help, and the foundation
of much that is excellent in Character.

The author has already referred to the Use and Abuse of Money; but the lesson is worthy of
being repeated and enforced.

Sir Henry Taylor has observed that "industry must take an interest in its own fruits, and God
has appointed that the mass of mankind shall be moved by this interest, and have their daily
labour sweetened by it." The earnings and savings of industry should be intelligent for a purpose
beyond mere earnings and savings. We do not work and strive for ourselves alone, but for the
benefit of those who dependent upon us. Industry must know how to earn, how to spend, and how
to save. The man who knows, like St. Paul, how to spare and how to abound, has a great knowledge.

Every man is bound to do what he can to elevate his social state, and to secure his independence.
For this purpose he must spare from his means in order to be independent in his condition.
Industry enables men to earn their living; it should also enable them to learn to live. Independence
can only be established by the exercise of forethought, prudence, frugality, and self-denial.
To be just as well as generous, men must deny themselves. The essence of generosity is self-sacrifice.

The object of this book is to induce men to employ their means for worthy purposes, and not
to waste them upon selfish indulgences. Many enemies have to be encountered in accomplishing
this object. There are idleness, thoughtlessness, vanity, vice, intemperance. The last is the
worst enemy of all. Numerous cases are cited in the course of the following book, which show
that one of the best methods of abating the Curse of Drink, is to induce old and young to practise
the virtue of Thrift.

Much of this book was written, and some of it published, years ago; but an attack of paralysis,
which compelled the author to give up writing for some time, has delayed its appearance until
now. For much of the information recently received, he is indebted to Edward Crossley, Esq.,
Mayor of Halifax; Edward Akroyd, Esq., Halifax; George Chetwynd, Esq., General Post Office;
S.A. Nichols, Esq., Over Darwen; Jeremiah Head, Esq., Middlesborough; Charles W. Sikes, Esq.,
Huddersfield: and numerous other correspondents in Durham, Renfrewshire, Yorkshire, Lancashire,
Staffordshire, and South Wales.

The author trusts that the book will prove useful and helpful towards the purpose for which
it is intended.

London, November, 1875.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

INDUSTRY.

Private economy--Useful labours--Our birthright--Results of labour--Necessity for labour--Industry
and intellect--Thrift and civilization--Thrifty industry--Thrifty economy. Pages 1--10

CHAPTER II.

HABITS OF THRIFT.

Workmen and capital--Habits of economy--Self-indulgence--Results of thriftlessness--Uses of
saved money--Extravagant living--Bargain-buying--Thrift and unthrift--Johnson on economy--Self-respect--Self-help--Uncertainty
of life--Laws of mortality--Will nobody help us?--Prosperous times the least prosperous--National
prosperity--Moral independence. Pages 11--29

CHAPTER III.

IMPROVIDENCE.

Misery and wealth--The uncivilized--The East End--Edward Denison--Thrift in Guernsey--Improvidence
and misery--Social Degradation--Fatalism of improvidence--Self-taxation--Slowness of progress.
Pages 30--40

CHAPTER IV.

MEANS OF SAVING.

Earnings of operatives--Colliers and iron-workers--Earnings of colliers--The revellers--Lord
Elcho and the colliers--High wages and heavy losses--High wages and drink--Sensual indulgence--Indifference
to well-being--Hugh Miller's experience--Mr. Roebuck's advice--Survival of slavery--Extinction
of slavery--Power unexercised--Earnings and character--Ignorance is power--Results of ignorance--Increase
of knowledge--Education not enough--Words of Sir Arthur Helps--Divine uses of knowledge--Public
school education--Words of William Felkin. Pages 41--64

CHAPTER V.

EXAMPLES OF THRIFT.

Spirit of order--Examples of economy--David Hume--Rev. Robert Walker--Self-application--Distinguished
miners--Geo. Stephenson--James Watt--Working for independence--Working for higher things--Work
and culture--Richardson and Gregory--Results of application--Distinguished artists--Canova
and Lough--John Lough--Lough's success--Words of Lord Derby--James Nasmyth--Bridgewater foundry--Advice
to young men. Pages 65--88

CHAPTER VI.

METHODS OF ECONOMY.

Keeping regular account--Generosity and forethought--Prudent economy--A dignity in saving--Self-improvement--Causes
of failure--The price of success--Power of combining--Principle of association--Savings of
capital--Loss by strikes--Money thrown away--Industrial societies--Co-operative companies--Equitable
pioneers--Darwen co-operatives--Spread of co-operation--Thrift conservative--Uses of investments
in building societies. Pages 89--109

CHAPTER VII.

ECONOMY IN LIFE ASSURANCE.

Co-operation in assurance--Improvidence cruel--Compensation of assurance--Benefit societies--French
and Belgian thrift--Workmen's societies--Manchester Unity--Duty and Dinners--Low rates of contribution--Failure
of friendly societies--Improvement by experience--Defects will disappear. Pages 110--122

CHAPTER VIII.

SAVINGS BANKS.

Direct saving--Uses of saved money--Beginnings of savings banks--Dr. Duncan of Ruthwell--Establishment
of savings banks--Classes of Depositors--Magic of drill--Military savings banks--Savings of
soldiers--Soldiers abroad--Deposits in savings banks--Savings at Bilston--Savings of working
men--Penny banks--Charles W. Sikes--Mechanics' institute banks--The poor man's purse--Depositors
in penny banks--They cultivate prudent habits--Influence of women--Early lessons in thrift--Belgian
Schools--Facilities for saving--Extension of savings banks--Money order offices--Post office
savings banks--Charles W. Sikes--Lessons of thrift--Mechanics' savings banks--Savings of artizans--Savings
in Preston. Pages 123--158

CHAPTER IX.

LITTLE THINGS.

Luck and labour--Neglect of little things--"It will do!"--Spending of pennies--The thrifty
woman--A helpful wife--A man's daily life--The two workmen--Rights and habits--Influence of
the wife--A penny a day--The power of a penny--Joseph Baxendale--Pickford and Co.--Roads and
Railways--Business maxims. Pages 159--178

CHAPTER X.

MASTERS AND MEN.

Want of sympathy--Masters and servants--Christian sympathy--Competition--What capital represents--Workmen
and employers--The Ashworths--New Eagley Mills--Improved workpeople--Public spirit of manufacturers--Mr.
Lister of Bradford--Mr. Foster's speech--Great men wise savers--Sir Titus Salt--Saltaire--Its
institutions--Music and sobriety--Mr. Akroyd, Halifax--Yorkshire penny bank--Origin of the
bank--How to help the poor--Saving helps sobriety--Drunkenness put down--"Childish work"--Penny
banks. Pages 179--204

CHAPTER XI.

THE CROSSLEYS--MASTERS AND MEN (CONTINUED).

John Crossley--Martha Crossley--A courtship begun--A courtship concluded--John Crossley begins
business--Dean Clough Mill--The Crossley family--Sir Francis Crossley--Martha Crossley's vow--Halifax
People's Park--Martha's vow fulfilled--Co-operation of colliers--Partnership of industry--Other
co-operative schemes--Jeremiah Head--Newport rolling mills--Bonuses to workmen--Mr. Carlyle's
letter--A contrast--A hundred years ago--Popular amusements--Improvement of manners--English
mechanics and workmen--English engineers and miners--Swiftness of machinery--Foreign workmen--Provident
habits of foreigners. Pages 205--232

CHAPTER XII.

LIVING BEYOND THE MEANS.

Hypocrisy and debt--Conventionalism--Keeping up appearances--Exclusive circles--Women and exclusiveness--Women
and extravagance--Running into debt--The temptation of shopkeepers--Temptations to crime--How
crime is committed--Love of dress--Gents--Reckless expenditure--Knowledge of Arithmetic--Marriage--Happy
tempers--Responsibilities of marriage--Marriage not a lottery--The man who couldn't say "No"--The
courage to say "No"--"Respectable" funerals--Funeral extravagance--John Wesley's will--Funeral
reform. Pages 233--258

CHAPTER XIII.

GREAT DEBTORS.

Greatness and debt--Seedy side of debt--Running up bills--Loan clubs--Genius and debt--Fox
and Sheridan--Sheridan's debts--Lamartine--Webster--Debts of men of science--Debts of artists--Italian
artists--Haydon--The old poets--Savage and Johnson--Steele and Goldsmith--Goldsmith's debts--Goldsmith's
advice--Byron's debts--The burden of debt--Burns and Sydney Smith--De Foe and Southey--Southey
and Scott--Scott's debts and labours--Great poor men--Johnson's advice--Genius and debt--Literary
men. Pages 259--285

CHAPTER XIV.

RICHES AND CHARITY.

Helping the helpless--Dr. Donne--Rich people--Love of gold--Eagerness to be rich--Riches and
poverty--Riches in old age--Riches no claim to distinction--Democrats and riches--Saladin the
great--Don Jose de Salamanca--Compensations of poverty--Honest poverty--Poverty and happiness--Charity--Evils
of money-giving--Philanthropy and charity--Rich people's wills--Stephen Girard--Thomas Guy--Educational
charities--Peabody's benefaction--Benefactors of the poor--The Navvy's Home. Pages 286--314

CHAPTER XV.

HEALTHY HOMES.

Healthy existence--Necessity for pure air--The fever tax--The Arcadians--The rural poor--Influence
of the home--Unhealthy homes--Health and drunkenness--Wholesome dwellings--Edwin Chadwick--Expectancy
of life--The poor laws--The sanitary idea--The sanitary inquiry--Sanitary commission--Sanitary
science--Results of uncleanness--Losses by ill-health--That terrible Nobody!--Home reform--Domestic
improvement--Cleanliness--Dirt and immorality--Worship in washing--Knowledge of physiology--Domestic
economy--English cookery--Morals and cookery--Work for ladies--Joseph Corbet's story. Pages
315--353

CHAPTER XVI.

THE ART OF LIVING.

Art of living exemplified--Taste an economist--Contrasts in cottage life--Difference in workmen--Living
at home--Home and comfort--Comfortable people--Beneficence of house thrift--Organization and
method--Industry and punctuality--Management of temper--Good manners--Habitual politeness--French
manners--Happiness in good manners--Amusement--Relaxation--Influence of music--Household elegance--Elegance
of flowers--Common enjoyments--Portraits of great men--Art at home--Final art of living. Pages
358--378

INDEX 379

A FABLE.

A grasshopper, half starved with cold and hunger, came to a well-stored beehive at the approach
of winter, and humbly begged the bees to relieve his wants with a few drops of honey.

One of the bees asked him how he had spent his time all the summer, and why he had not laid
up a store of food like them.

"Truly." said he, "I spent my time very merrily, in drinking, dancing, and singing, and never
once thought of winter."

"Our plan is very different," said the bee; "we work hard in the summer, to lay by a store
of food against the season when we foresee we shall want it; but those who do nothing but drink,
and dance, and sing in the summer, must expect to starve in the winter."

THRIFT.

CHAPTER I.

INDUSTRY.

"Not what I have, but what I do, is my kingdom."--Carlyle.

"Productive industry is the only capital which enriches a people, and spreads national prosperity
and well-being. In all labour there is profit, says Solomon. What is the science of Political
Economy, but a dull sermon on this text?"--Samuel Laing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thrift began with civilization. It began when men found it necessary to provide for to-morrow,
as well as for to-day. It began long before money was invented.

Thrift means private economy. It includes domestic economy, as well as the order and management
of a family.

While it is the object of Private Economy to create and promote the well-being of individuals,
it is the object of Political Economy to create and increase the wealth of nations.

Private and public wealth have the same origin. Wealth is obtained by labour; it is preserved
by savings and accumulations; and it is increased by diligence and perseverance.

It is the savings of individuals which compose the wealth--in other words, the well-being--of
every nation. On the other hand, it is the wastefulness of individuals which occasions the
impoverishment of states. So that every thrifty person may be regarded as a public benefactor,
and every thriftless person as a public enemy.

There is no dispute as to the necessity for Private Economy. Everybody admits it, and recommends
it. But with respect to Political Economy, there are numerous discussions,--for instance, as
to the distribution of capital, the accumulations of property, the incidence of taxation, the
Poor Laws, and other subjects,--into which we do not propose to enter. The subject of Private
Economy, of Thrift, is quite sufficient by itself to occupy the pages of this book.

Economy is not a natural instinct, but the growth of experience, example, and forethought.
It is also the result of education and intelligence. It is only when men become wise and thoughtful
that they become frugal. Hence the best means of making men and women provident is to make
them wise.

Prodigality is much more natural to man than thrift. The savage is the greatest of spendthrifts,
for he has no forethought, no to-morrow. The prehistoric man saved nothing. He lived in caves,
or in hollows of the ground covered with branches. He subsisted on shellfish which he picked
up on the seashore, or upon hips and haws which he gathered in the woods. He killed animals
with stones. He lay in wait for them, or ran them down on foot. Then he learnt to use stones
as tools; making stone arrow-heads and spear-points, thereby utilizing his labour, and killing
birds and animals more quickly.

The original savage knew nothing of agriculture. It was only in comparatively recent times
that men gathered seeds for food, and saved a portion of them for next year's crop. When minerals
were discovered, and fire was applied to them, and the minerals were smelted into metal, man
made an immense stride. He could then fabricate hard tools, chisel stone, build houses, and
proceed by unwearying industry to devise the manifold means and agencies of civilization.

The dweller by the ocean burnt a hollow in a felled tree, launched it, went to sea in it, and
fished for food. The hollowed tree became a boat, held together with iron nails. The boat became
a galley, a ship, a paddle-boat, a screw steamer, and the world was opened up for colonization
and civilization.

Man would have continued uncivilized, but for the results of the useful labours of those who
preceded him. The soil was reclaimed by his predecessors, and made to grow food for human uses.
They invented tools and fabrics, and we reap the useful results. They discovered art and science,
and we succeed to the useful effects of their labours.

All nature teaches that no good thing which has once been done passes utterly away. The living
are ever reminded of the buried millions who have worked and won before them. The handicraft
and skill displayed in the buildings and sculptures of the long-lost cities of Nineveh, Babylon,
and Troy, have descended to the present time. In nature's economy, no human labour is altogether
lost. Some remnant of useful effect continues to reward the race, if not the individual.

The mere material wealth bequeathed to us by our forefathers forms but an insignificant item
in the sum of our inheritance. Our birthright is made up of something far more imperishable.
It consists of the sum of the useful effects of human skill and labour. These effects were
not transmitted by learning, but by teaching and example. One generation taught another, and
thus art and handicraft, the knowledge of mechanical appliances and materials, continued to
be preserved. The labours and efforts of former generations were thus transmitted by father
to son; and they continue to form the natural heritage of the human race--one of the most important
instruments of civilization.

Our birthright, therefore, consists in the useful effects of the labours of our forefathers;
but we cannot enjoy them unless we ourselves take part in the work. All must labour, either
with hand or head. Without work, life is worthless; it becomes a mere state of moral coma.
We do not mean merely physical work. There is a great deal of higher work--the work of action
and endurance, of trial and patience, of enterprise and philanthropy, of spreading truth and
civilization, of diminishing suffering and relieving the poor, of helping the weak, and enabling
them to help themselves.

"A noble heart," says Barrow, "will disdain to subsist, like a drone, upon others' labours;
like a vermin to filch its food out of the public granary; or, like a shark, to prey upon the
lesser fry; but it will rather outdo his private obligations to other men's care and toil,
by considerable service and beneficence to the public; for there is no calling of any sort,
from the sceptre to the spade, the management whereof, with any good success, any credit, any
satisfaction, doth not demand much work of the head, or of the hands, or of both."

Labour is not only a necessity, but it is also a pleasure. What would otherwise be a curse,
by the constitution of our physical system becomes a blessing. Our life is a conflict with
nature in some respects, but it is also a co-operation with nature in others. The sun, the
air, and the earth are constantly abstracting from us our vital forces. Hence we eat and drink
for nourishment, and clothe ourselves for warmth.

Nature works with us. She provides the earth which we furrow; she grows and ripens the seeds
that we sow and gather. She furnishes, with the help of human labour, the wool that we spin
and the food that we eat. And it ought never to be forgotten, that however rich or poor we
may be, all that we eat, all that we are clothed with, all that shelters us, from the palace
to the cottage, is the result of labour.

Men co-operate with each other for the mutual sustenance of all. The husbandman tills the ground
and provides food; the manufacturer weaves tissues, which the tailor and seamstress make into
clothes; the mason and the bricklayer build the houses in which we enjoy household life. Numbers
of workmen thus contribute and help to create the general result.

Labour and skill applied to the vulgarest things invest them at once with precious value. Labour
is indeed the life of humanity; take it away, banish it, and the race of Adam were at once
stricken with death. "He that will not work," said St. Paul, "neither shall he eat;" and the
apostle glorified himself in that he had laboured with his own hands, and had not been chargeable
to any man.

There is a well-known story of an old farmer calling his three idle sons around him when on
his deathbed, to impart to them an important secret. "My sons," said he, "a great treasure
lies hid in the estate which I am about to leave to you." The old man gasped. "Where is it
hid?" exclaimed the sons in a breath. "I am about to tell you," said the old man; "you will
have to dig for it----" but his breath failed him before he could impart the weighty secret;
and he died. Forthwith the sons set to work with spade and mattock upon the long neglected
fields, and they turned up every sod and clod upon the estate. They discovered no treasure,
but they learnt to work; and when fields were sown, and the harvests came, lo! the yield was
prodigious, in consequence of the thorough tillage which they had undergone. Then it was that
they discovered the treasure concealed in the estate, of which their wise old father had advised
them.

Labour is at once a burden, a chastisement, an honour, and a pleasure. It may be identified
with poverty, but there is also glory in it. It bears witness, at the same time, to our natural
wants and to our manifold needs. What were man, what were life, what were civilization, without
labour? All that is great in man comes of labour;--greatness in art, in literature, in science.
Knowledge--"the wing wherewith we fly to heaven"--is only acquired through labour. Genius is
but a capability of labouring intensely: it is the power of making great and sustained efforts.
Labour may be a chastisement, but it is indeed a glorious one. It is worship, duty, praise,
and immortality,--for those who labour with the highest aims, and for the purest purposes.

There are many who murmur and complain at the law of labour under which we live, without reflecting
that obedience to it is not only in conformity with the Divine will, but also necessary for
the development of intelligence, and for the thorough enjoyment of our common nature. Of all
wretched men, surely the idle are the most so;--those whose life is barren of utility, who
have nothing to do except to gratify their senses. Are not such men the most querulous, miserable,
and dissatisfied of all, constantly in a state of ennui, alike useless to themselves and to
others--mere cumberers of the earth, who when removed are missed by none, and whom none regret?
Most wretched and ignoble lot, indeed, is the lot of the idlers.

Who have helped the world onward so much as the workers; men who have had to work for necessity
or from choice? All that we call progress--civilization, well-being, and prosperity--depends
upon industry, diligently applied,--from the culture of a barley-stalk, to the construction
of a steamship,--from the stitching of a collar, to the sculpturing of "the statue that enchants
the world."

All useful and beautiful thoughts, in like manner, are the issue of labour, of study, of observation,
of research, of diligent elaboration. The noblest poem cannot be elaborated, and send down
its undying strains into the future, without steady and painstaking labour. No great work has
ever been done "at a heat." It is the result of repeated efforts, and often of many failures.
One generation begins, and another continues--the present co-operating with the past. Thus,
the Parthenon began with a mud-hut; the Last Judgment with a few scratches on the sand. It
is the same with individuals of the race; they begin with abortive efforts, which, by means
of perseverance, lead to successful issues.

The history of industry is uniform in the character of its illustrations. Industry enables
the poorest man to achieve honour, if not distinction. The greatest names in the history of
art, literature, and science, are those of labouring men. A working instrument-maker gave us
the steam-engine; a barber, the spinning-machine; a weaver, the mule; a pitman perfected the
locomotive;--and working men of all grades have, one after another, added to the triumphs of
mechanical skill.

By the working man, we do not mean merely the man who labours with his muscles and sinews.
A horse can do this. But he is pre-eminently the working man who works with his brain also,
and whose whole physical system is under the influence of his higher faculties. The man who
paints a picture, who writes a book, who makes a law, who creates a poem, is a working man
of the highest order,--not so necessary to the physical sustainment of the community as the
ploughman or the shepherd; but not less important as providing for society its highest intellectual
nourishment.

Having said so much of the importance and the necessity of industry, let us see what uses are
made of the advantages derivable from it. It is clear that man would have continued uncivilized
but for the accumulations of savings made by his forefathers,--the savings of skill, of art,
of invention, and of intellectual culture.

It is the savings of the world that have made the civilization of the world. Savings are the
result of labour; and it is only when labourers begin to save, that the results of civilization
accumulate. We have said that thrift began with civilization: we might almost have said that
thrift produced civilization. Thrift produces capital; and capital is the conserved result
of labour. The capitalist is merely a man who does not spend all that is earned by work.

But thrift is not a natural instinct. It is an acquired principle of conduct. It involves self-denial--the
denial of present enjoyment for future, good--the subordination of animal appetite to reason,
forethought, and prudence. It works for to-day, but also provides for to-morrow. It invests
the capital it has saved, and makes provision for the future.

"Man's right of seeing the future," says Mr. Edward Denison, "which is conferred on him by
reason, has attached to it the duty of providing for that future; and our language bears witness
to this truth by using, as expressive of active precaution against future want, a word which
in its radical meaning implies only a passive foreknowledge of the same. Whenever we speak
of the virtue of providence, we assume that forewarned is fore-armed, To know the future is
no virtue, but it is the greatest of virtues to prepare for it."[1]

[Footnote 1: Letters of the late Edward Denison. p. 240.]

But a large proportion of men do not provide for the future. They do not remember the past.
They think only of the present. They preserve nothing. They spend all that they earn. They
do not provide for themselves: they do not provide for their families. They may make high wages,
but eat and drink the whole of what they earn. Such people are constantly poor, and hanging
on the verge of destitution.

It is the same with nations. The nations which consume all that they produce, without leaving
a store for future production, have no capital. Like thriftless individuals, they live from
hand to mouth, and are always poor and miserable. Nations that have no capital, have no commerce.
They have no accumulations to dispose of; hence they have no ships, no sailors, no docks, no
harbours, no canals, and no railways. Thrifty industry lies at the root of the civilization
of the world.

Look at Spain. There, the richest soil is the least productive. Along the banks of the Guadalquiver,
where once twelve thousand villages existed, there are now not eight hundred; and they are
full of beggars. A Spanish proverb says, "El cielo y suelo es bueno, el entresuelo malo"--The
sky is good, the earth is good; that only is bad which lies between the sky and the earth.
Continuous effort, or patient labour, is for the Spaniard an insupportable thing. Half through
indolence, half through pride, he cannot bend to work. A Spaniard will blush to work; he will
not blush to beg![2]

[Footnote 2: EUGENE POITOU--Spain and its People. pp. 184--188.]

It is in this way that society mainly consists of two classes--the savers and the wasters,
the provident and the improvident, the thrifty and the thriftless, the Haves and the Have-nots.
The men who economize by means of labour become the owners of capital which sets other labour
in motion. Capital accumulates in their hands, and they employ other labourers to work for
them. Thus trade and commerce begin.

The thrifty build houses, warehouses, and mills. They fit manufactories with tools and machines.
They build ships, and send them to various parts of the world. They put their capital together,
and build railroads, harbours, and docks. They open up mines of coal, iron, and copper; and
erect pumping engines to keep them clear of water. They employ labourers to work the mines,
and thus give rise to an immense amount of employment.

All this is the result of thrift. It is the result of economizing money, and employing it for
beneficial purposes. The thriftless man has no share in the progress of the world. He spends
all that he gets, and can give no help to anybody. No matter how much money he makes, his position
is not in any respect raised. He husbands none of his resources. He is always calling for help.
He is, in fact, the born thrall and slave of the thrifty.

CHAPTER II.

HABITS OF THRIFT.

"Die Hauptsache ist dass man lerne sich selbst zu beherrschen." [The great matter is to learn
to rule oneself.]--Goethe.

"Most men work for the present, a few for the future. The wise work for both--for the future
in the present, and for the present in the future."--Guesses at Truth.

"The secret of all success is to know how to deny yourself.... If you once learn to get the
whip-hand of yourself, that is the best educator. Prove to me that you can control yourself,
and I'll say you're an educated man; and without this, all other education is good for next
to nothing."--Mrs. Oliphant. Nothing harder, if one knows not how to will it; nothing easier,
if one wills it."--Alexandre Dumas.

Competence and comfort lie within the reach of most people, were they to take the adequate
means to secure and enjoy them. Men who are paid good wages might also become capitalists,
and take their fair share in the improvement and well-being of the world. But it is only by
the exercise of labour, energy, honesty, and thrift, that they can advance their own position
or that of their class.

Society at present suffers far more from waste of money than from want of money. It is easier
to make money than to know how to spend it. It is not what a man gets that constitutes his
wealth, but his manner of spending and economizing. And when a man obtains by his labour more
than enough for his personal and family wants, and can lay by a little store of savings besides,
he unquestionably possesses the elements of social well-being. The savings may amount to little,
but they may be sufficient to make him independent.

There is no reason why the highly-paid workman of to-day may not save a store of capital. It
is merely a matter of self-denial and private economy. Indeed, the principal industrial leaders
of to-day consist, for the most part, of men who have sprung directly from the ranks. It is
the accumulation of experience and skill that makes the difference between the workman and
the no-workman; and it depends upon the workman himself whether he will save his capital or
waste it. If he save it, he will always find that he has sufficient opportunities for employing
it profitably and usefully.

"When I was down in Lancashire the other day," said Mr. Cobden to his fellow-townsmen at Midhurst,
"I visited a mill, in company with some other gentlemen, and that mill belonged to a person
whose real name I will not mention, but whom for the present purpose I will call Mr. Smith.
There could not have been less than three or four thousand persons engaged in this mill when
it was at work, and there were seven hundred power-looms under one roof. As we were coming
away, one of the friends who accompanied me patted the owner of the mill on the shoulder, and
with that frank and manly familiarity which rather distinguishes the Lancashire race, he said,
'Mr. Smith was a working man himself twenty-five years ago, and he owes all this entirely to
his own industry and frugality.' To which Mr. Smith immediately replied, in the same frank
and good-humoured manner, 'Nay, I do not owe it all to myself; I married a wife with a fortune;
for she was earning 9s 6d. a week as a weaver at the power-loom, when she married me.'"

Thrift of Time is equal to thrift of money. Franklin said, "Time is gold." If one wishes to
earn money, it may be done by the proper use of time. But time may also be spent in doing many
good and noble actions. It may be spent in learning, in study, in art, in science, in literature.
Time can be economized by system. System is an arrangement to secure certain ends, so that
no time may be lost in accomplishing them. Every business man must be systematic and orderly.
So must every housewife. There must be a place for everything, and everything in its place.
There must also be a time for everything, and everything must be done in time.

It is not necessary to show that economy is useful. Nobody denies that thrift may be practised.
We see numerous examples of it. What many men have already done, all other men may do. Nor
is thrift a painful virtue. On the contrary, it enables us to avoid much contempt and many
indignities. It requires us to deny ourselves, but not to abstain from any proper enjoyment.
It provides many honest pleasures, of which thriftlessness and extravagance deprive us.

Let no man say that he cannot economize. There are few persons who could not contrive to save
a few shillings weekly. In twenty years, three shillings saved weekly would amount to two hundred
and forty pounds; and in ten years more, by addition of interest, to four hundred and twenty
pounds. Some may say that they cannot save nearly so much. Well! begin with two shillings,
one shilling, or even sixpence. Begin somewhere; but, at all events, make a beginning. Sixpence
a week, deposited in the savings bank, will amount to forty pounds in twenty years, and seventy
pounds in thirty years. It is the habit of economizing and denying oneself that needs to be formed.

Thrift does not require superior courage, nor superior intellect, nor any superhuman virtue.
It merely requires common sense, and the power of resisting selfish enjoyments. In fact, thrift
is merely common sense in every-day working action. It needs no fervent resolution, but only
a little patient self-denial. BEGIN is its device! The more the habit of thrift is practised,
the easier it becomes; and the sooner it compensates the self-denier for the sacrifices which
it has imposed.

The question may be asked,--Is it possible for a man working for small wages to save anything,
and lay it by in a savings bank, when he requires every penny for the maintenance of his family?
But the fact remains, that it is done by many industrious and sober men; that they do deny
themselves, and put their spare earnings into savings banks, and the other receptacles provided
for poor men's savings. And if some can do this, all may do it under similar circumstances,--without
depriving themselves of any genuine pleasure, or any real enjoyment.

How intensely selfish is it for a person in the receipt of good pay to spend everything upon
himself,--or, if he has a family, to spend his whole earnings from week to week, and lay nothing
by. When we hear that a man, who has been in the receipt of a good salary, has died and left
nothing behind him--that he has left his wife and family destitute--left them to chance--to
live or perish anywhere,--we cannot but regard it as the most selfish thriftlessness. And yet,
comparatively little is thought of such cases. Perhaps the hat goes round. Subscriptions may
produce something--perhaps nothing; and the ruined remnants of the unhappy family sink into
poverty and destitution.

Yet the merest prudence would, to a great extent, have obviated this result. The curtailment
of any sensual and selfish enjoyment--of a glass of beer or a screw of tobacco--would enable
a man, in the course of years, to save at least something for others, instead of wasting it
on himself. It is, in fact, the absolute duty of the poorest man to provide, in however slight
a degree, for the support of himself and his family in the season of sickness and helplessness
which often comes upon men when they least expect such a visitation.

Comparatively few people can be rich; but most have it in their power to acquire, by industry
and economy, sufficient to meet their personal wants. They may even become the possessors of
savings sufficient to secure them against penury and poverty in their old age. It is not, however,
the want of opportunity, but the want of will, that stands in the way of economy. Men may labour
unceasingly with hand or head; but they cannot abstain from spending too freely, and living
too highly.

The majority prefer the enjoyment of pleasure to the practice of self-denial. With the mass
of men, the animal is paramount. They often spend all that they earn. But it is not merely
the working people who are spendthrifts. We hear of men who for years have been earning and
spending hundreds a year, who suddenly die,--leaving their children penniless. Everybody knows
of such cases. At their death, the very furniture of the house they have lived in belongs to
others. It is sold to pay their funeral expenses and debts which they have incurred during
their thriftless lifetime.

Money represents a multitude of objects without value, or without real utility; but it also
represents something much more precious,--and that is independence. In this light it is of
great moral importance.

As a guarantee of independence, the modest and plebeian quality of economy is at once ennobled
and raised to the rank of one of the most meritorious of virtues. "Never treat money affairs
with levity," said Bulwer; "Money is Character." Some of man's best qualities depend upon the
right use of money,--such as his generosity, benevolence, justice, honesty, and forethought.
Many of his worst qualities also originate in the bad use of money,--such as greed, miserliness,
injustice, extravagance, and improvidence.

No class ever accomplished anything that lived from hand to mouth. People who spend all that
they earn, are ever hanging on the brink of destitution. They must necessarily be weak and
impotent--the slaves of time and circumstance. They keep themselves poor. They lose self-respect,
as well as the respect of others. It is impossible that they can be free and independent. To
be thriftless, is enough to deprive one of all manly spirit and virtue.

But a man with something saved, no matter how little, is in a different position. The little
capital he has stored up, is always a source of power. He is no longer the sport of time and
fate. He can boldly look the world in the face. He is, in a manner, his own master. He can
dictate his own terms. He can neither be bought nor sold. He can look forward with cheerfulness
to an old age of comfort and happiness.

As men become wise and thoughtful, they generally become provident and frugal. A thoughtless
man, like a savage, spends as he gets, thinking nothing of to-morrow, of the time of adversity,
or of the claims of those whom he has made dependent on him. But a wise man thinks of the future;
he prepares in good time for the evil day that may come upon him and his family; and he provides
carefully for those who are near and dear to him.

What a serious responsibility does the man incur who marries! Not many seriously think, of
this responsibility. Perhaps this is wisely ordered. For, much serious thinking might end in
the avoidance of married life and its responsibilities. But, once married, a man ought forthwith
to determine that, so far as his own efforts are concerned, want shall never enter his household;
and that his children shall not, in the event of his being removed from the scene of life and
labour, be left a burthen upon society.

Economy with this object is an important duty. Without economy, no man can be just--no man
can be honest. Improvidence is cruelty to women and children; though the cruelty is born of
ignorance. A father spends his surplus means in drink, providing little, and saving nothing;
and then he dies, leaving his destitute family his lifelong victims. Can any form of cruelty
surpass this? Yet this reckless course is pursued to a large extent among every class. The
middle and upper classes are equally guilty with the lower class. They live beyond their means.
They live extravagantly. They are ambitious of glare and glitter--frivolity and pleasure. They
struggle to be rich, that they may have the means of spending,--of drinking rich wines, and
giving good dinners.

When Mr. Hume said in the House of Commons, some years ago, that the tone of living in England
was altogether too high, his observation was followed with "loud laughter." Yet his remark
was perfectly true. It is far more true now than it was then. Thinking people believe that
life is now too fast, and that we are living at high-pressure. In short, we live extravagantly.
We live beyond our means. We throw away oar earnings, and often throw our lives after them.

Many persons are diligent enough in making money, but do not know how to economize it,--or
how to spend it. They have sufficient skill and industry to do the one, but they want the necessary
wisdom to do the other. The temporary passion for enjoyment seizes us, and we give way to it
without regard to consequences. And yet it may be merely the result of forgetfulness, and might
be easily controlled by firmness of will, and by energetic resolution to avoid the occasional
causes of expenditure for the future. The habit of saving arises, for the most part, in the
desire to ameliorate our social condition, as well as to ameliorate the condition of those
who are dependent upon us. It dispenses with everything which is not essential, and avoids
all methods of living that are wasteful and extravagant. A purchase made at the lowest price
will be dear, if it be a superfluity. Little expenses lead to great. Buying things that are
not wanted, soon accustoms us to prodigality in other respects. Fashion runs in this habit
of buying. Some buy old china--as much as will furnish a china-shop. Others buy old pictures--old
furniture--old wines,--all great bargains! There would be little harm in buying these old things,
if they were not so often bought at the expense of the connoisseur's creditors. Horace Walpole
once said, "I hope that there will not be another sale, for I have not an inch of room nor
a farthing left."

Men must prepare in youth and in middle age the means of enjoying old age pleasantly and happily.
There can be nothing more distressing than to see an old man who has spent the greater part
of his life in well-paid-for-labour, reduced to the necessity of begging for bread, and relying
entirely on the commiseration of his neighbours, or upon the bounty of strangers. Such a consideration
as this should inspire men in early life with a determination to work and to save, for the
benefit of themselves and their families in later years.

It is, in fact, in youth that economy should be practised, and in old age that men should dispense
liberally, provided they do not exceed their income. The young man has a long future before
him, during which he may exercise the principles of economy; whilst the other is reaching the
end of his career, and can carry nothing out of the world with him.

This, however, is not the usual practice. The young man now spends, or desires to spend, quite
as liberally, and often much more liberally, than his father, who is about to end his career.
He begins life where his father left off. He spends more than his father did at his age, and
soon finds himself up to his ears in debt. To satisfy his incessant wants, he resorts to unscrupulous
means, and to illicit gains. He tries to make money rapidly; he speculates, over-trades, and
is speedily wound up. Thus he obtains experience; but it is the result, not of well-doing,
but of ill-doing.

Socrates recommends fathers of families to observe the practice of their thrifty neighbours--of
those who spend their means to the best advantage,--and to profit by their example. Thrift
is essentially practical, and can best be taught by facts. Two men earn, say, five shillings
a day. They are in precisely the same condition as respects family living, and expenditure
Yet the one says he cannot save, and does not; while the other says he can save, and regularly
deposits part of his savings in a savings bank, and eventually becomes a capitalist.

Samuel Johnson fully knew the straits of poverty. He once signed his name Impransus, or Dinnerless.
He had walked the streets with Savage, not knowing where to lay his head at night. Johnson
never forgot the poverty through which he passed in his early life, and he was always counselling
his friends and readers to avoid it. Like Cicero, he averred that the best source of wealth
or well-being was economy. He called it the daughter of Prudence, the sister of Temperance,
and the mother of Liberty. his mind, his character. Self-respect, originating in self-love,
instigates the first step of improvement. It stimulates a man to rise, to look upward, to develop
his intelligence, to improve his condition. Self-respect is the root of most of the virtues--of
cleanliness, chastity, reverence, honesty, sobriety. To think meanly of one's self is to sink;
sometimes to descend a precipice at the bottom of which is infamy.

Every man can help himself to some extent. We are not mere straws thrown upon the current to
mark its course; but possessed of freedom of action, endowed with power to stem the waves and
rise above them, each marking out a course for himself. We can each elevate ourselves in the
scale of moral being. We can cherish pure thoughts. We can perform good actions. We can live
soberly and frugally. We can provide against the evil day. We can read good books, listen to
wise teachers, and place ourselves under the divinest influences on earth. We can live for
the highest purposes, and with the highest aims in view.

"Self-love and social are the same," says one of our poets. The man who improves himself, improves
the world. He adds one more true man to the mass. And the mass being made up of individuals,
it is clear that were each to improve himself, the result would be the improvement of the whole.
Social advancement is the consequence of individual advancement. The whole cannot be pure,
unless the individuals composing it are pure. Society at large is but the reflex of individual
conditions. All this is but the repetition of a truism, but truisms have often to be repeated
to make their full impression.

Then again, a man, when he has improved himself, is better able to improve those who are brought
into contact with him. He has more power. His sphere of vision is enlarged. He sees more clearly
the defects in the condition of others that might be remedied. He can lend a more active helping
hand to raise them. He has done his duty by himself, and can with more authority urge upon
others the necessity of doing the like duty to themselves. How can a man be a social elevator,
who is himself walking in the mire of self-indulgence? How can he teach sobriety or cleanliness,
if he be himself drunken or foul? "Physician, heal thyself," is the answer of his neighbours.

The sum and substance of our remarks is this: In all the individual reforms or improvements
that we desire, we must begin with ourselves. We must exhibit our gospel in our own life. We
must teach by our own example. If we would have others elevated, we must elevate ourselves.
Each man can exhibit the results in his own person. He can begin with self-respect.

The uncertainty of life is a strong inducement to provide against the evil day. To do this
is a moral and social, as well as a religious duty. "He that provideth not for his own, and
especially for those of his own household, hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel."

The uncertainty of life is proverbially true. The strongest and healthiest man may be stricken
down in a moment, by accident or disease. If we take human life in the mass, we cannot fail
to recognize the uncertainty of life as much as we do the certainty of death.

There is a striking passage in Addison's "Vision of Mirza," in which life is pictured as a
passage over a bridge of about a hundred arches. A black cloud hangs over each end of the bridge.
At the entrance to it there are hidden pitfalls very thickly set, through which throngs disappear,
so soon as they have placed their feet upon the bridge. They grow thinner towards the centre;
they gradually disappear; until at length only a few persons reach the further side, and these
also having dropped through the pitfalls, the bridge at its further extremity becomes entirely
clear. The description of Addison corresponds with the results of the observations made as
to the duration of human life.

Thus, of a hundred thousand persons born in this country, it has been ascertained that a fourth
of them die before they have reached their fifth year; and one-half before they have reached
their fiftieth year. One thousand one hundred will reach their ninetieth year. Sixteen will
live to a hundred. And only two persons out of the hundred thousand--like the last barks of
an innumerable convoy, will reach the advanced and helpless age of a hundred and five years.

Two things are very obvious,--the uncertainty as to the hour of death in individuals, but the
regularity and constancy of the circumstances which influence the duration of human life in
the aggregate. It is a matter of certainty that the average life of all persons born in this
country extends to about forty-five years. This has been proved by a very large number of observations
of human life and its duration.

Equally extensive observations have been made as to the average number of persons of various
ages who die yearly. It is always the number of the experiments which gives the law of the
probability. It is on such observations that the actuary founds his estimates of the mortality
that exists at any given period of life. The actuary tells you that he has been guided by the
Laws of Mortality. Now the results must be very regular, to justify the actuary in speaking
of Mortality as governed by Laws. And yet it is so.

Indeed, there would seem to be no such thing as chance in the world. Man lives and dies in
conformity to a law. A sparrow falls to the ground in obedience to a law. Nay, there are matters
in the ordinary transactions of life, such as one might suppose were the mere result of chance,
which are ascertained to be of remarkable accuracy when taken in the mass. For instance, the
number of letters put in the post-office without an address; the number of letters wrongly
directed; the number containing money; the number unstamped; continue nearly the same, in relation
to the number of letters posted, from one year to another.

Now it is the business of man to understand the laws of health, and to provide against their
consequences,--as, for instance, in the matter of sickness, accident, and premature death.
We cannot escape the consequences of transgression of the natural laws, though we may have
meant well. We must have done well. The Creator does not alter His laws to accommodate them
to our ignorance. He has furnished us with intelligence, so that we may understand them and
act upon them: otherwise we must suffer the consequences in inevitable pain and sorrow.

We often hear the cry raised, "Will nobody help us?" It is a spiritless, hopeless cry. It is
sometimes a cry of revolting meanness, especially when it issues from those who with a little
self-denial, sobriety, and thrift, might easily help themselves.

Many people have yet to learn, that virtue, knowledge, freedom, and prosperity must spring
from themselves. Legislation can do very little for them: it cannot make them sober, intelligent,
and well-doing. The prime miseries of most men have their origin in causes far removed from
Acts of Parliament.

The spendthrift laughs at legislation. The drunkard defies it, and arrogates the right of dispensing
with forethought and self-denial,--throwing upon others the blame of his ultimate wretchedness.
The mob orators, who gather "the millions" about them, are very wide of the mark, when, instead
of seeking to train their crowd of hearers to habits of frugality, temperance, and self-culture,
they encourage them to keep up the cry, "Will nobody help us?"

The cry sickens the soul. It shows gross ignorance of the first elements of personal welfare.
Help is in men themselves. They were born to help and to elevate themselves. They must work
out their own salvation. The poorest men have done it; why should not every man do it? The
brave, upward spirit ever conquers.

The number of well-paid workmen in this country has become very large, who might easily save
and economize, to the improvement of their moral well-being, of their respectability and independence,
and of their status in society as men and citizens. They are improvident and thriftless to
an extent which proves not less hurtful to their personal happiness and domestic comfort, than
it is injurious to the society of which they form so important a part.

In "prosperous times" they spend their gains recklessly, and when adverse times come, they
are at once plunged in misery. Money is not used, but abused; and when wage-earning people
should be providing against old age, or for the wants of a growing family, they are, in too
many cases, feeding folly, dissipation, and vice. Let no one say that this is an exaggerated
picture. It is enough to look round in any neighbourhood, and see how much is spent and how
little is saved; what a large proportion of earnings goes to the beershop, and how little to
the savings bank or the benefit society.

"Prosperous times" are very often the least prosperous of all times. In prosperous times, mills
are working full time; men, women, and children are paid high wages; warehouses are emptied
and filled; goods are manufactured and exported; wherries full of produce pass along the streets;
immense luggage trains run along the railways, and heavily-laden ships leave our shores daily
for foreign ports, full of the products of our industry. Everybody seems to be becoming richer
and more prosperous. But we do not think of whether men and women are becoming wiser, better
trained, less self-indulgent, more religiously disposed, or living for any higher purpose than
the satisfaction of the animal appetite.

If this apparent prosperity be closely examined, it will be found that expenditure is increasing
in all directions. There are demands for higher wages; and the higher wages, when obtained,
are spent as soon as earned. Intemperate habits are formed, and, once formed, the habit of
intemperance continues. Increased wages, instead of being saved, are for the most part spent
in drink.

Thus, when a population is thoughtless and improvident, no kind of material prosperity will
benefit them. Unless they exercise forethought and economy, they will alternately be in a state
of "hunger and burst." When trade falls off, as it usually does after exceptional prosperity,
they will not be comforted by the thought of what they might have saved, had it ever occurred
to them that the "prosperous times" might not have proved permanent.

During prosperous times, Saint Monday is regularly observed. The Bank Holiday is repeated weekly.
"Where are all the workmen?" said a master to his foreman on going the rounds among his builders,--this
work must be pushed on and covered in while the fine weather lasts." "Why, sir," said the foreman,
"this is Monday; and they have not spent all their money yet." Dean Boyd, preaching at Exeter
on behalf of the Devonshire hospitals, expressed his belief that the annual loss to the workpeople
engaged in the woollen manufacture, the cotton trade, the bricklaying and building trade, by
Idle Monday, amounted to over seven millions sterling. If man's chief end were to manufacture
cloth, silk, cotton, hardware, toys, and china; to buy in the cheapest market, and to sell
in the dearest; to cultivate land, grow corn, and graze cattle; to live for mere money profit,
and hoard or spend, as the case might be, we might then congratulate ourselves upon our National
Prosperity. But is this the chief end of man? Has he not faculties, affections, and sympathies,
besides muscular organs? Has not his mind and heart certain claims, as well as his mouth and
his back? Has he not a soul as well as a stomach? And ought not "prosperity" to include the
improvement and well-being of his morals and intellect as well as of his bones and muscles?

Mere money is no indication of prosperity. A man's nature may remain the same. It may even
grow more stunted and deformed, while he is doubling his expenditure, or adding cent, per cent,
to his hoards yearly. It is the same with the mass. The increase of their gains may merely
furnish them with increased means for gratifying animal indulgences, unless their moral character
keeps pace with their physical advancement. Double the gains of an uneducated, overworked man,
in a time of prosperity, and what is the result? Simply that you have furnished him with the
means of eating and drinking more! Thus, not even the material well-being of the population
is secured by that condition of things which is defined by political economists as "National
Prosperity." And so long as the moral elements of the question are ignored, this kind of "prosperity"
is, we believe, calculated to produce far more mischievous results than good. It is knowledge
and virtue alone that can confer dignity on a man's life; and the growth of such qualities
in a nation are the only true marks of its real prosperity; not the infinite manufacture and
sale of cotton prints, toys, hardware, and crockery. The Bishop of Manchester, when preaching
at a harvest thanksgiving near Preston, referred to a letter which he had received from a clergyman
in the south of England, who, after expressing his pleasure at the fact that the agricultural
labourers were receiving higher wages, lamented "that at present the only result he could discover
from their higher wages was that a great deal more beer was consumed. If this was the use we
were making of this prosperity, we could hardly call it a blessing for which we had a right
or ground to thank God. The true prosperity of the nation consisted not so much in the fact
that the nation was growing in wealth--though wealth was a necessary attribute of prosperity--but
that it was growing in virtue; and that there was a more equable distribution of comfort, contentment,
and the things of this lower world."

In making the preceding observations we do not in the least advocate the formation of miserly,
penurious habits; for we hate the scrub, the screw, the miser. All that we contend for is,
that man should provide for the future,--that they should provide during good times for the
bad times which almost invariably follow them,--that they should lay by a store of savings
as a breakwater against want, and make sure of a little fund which may maintain them in old
age, secure their self-respect, and add to their personal comfort and social well-being. Thrift
is not in any way connected with avarice, usury, greed, or selfishness. It is, in fact, the
very reverse of these disgusting dispositions.

It means economy for the purpose of securing independence. Thrift requires that money should
be used and not abused--that it should be honestly earned and economically employed--

"Not for to put it in a hedge,
 Not for a train attendent,--
 But for the glorious privilege
 Of being Independent."

CHAPTER III.

IMPROVIDENCE.

"The man who has a wife and children has given hostages to fortune."--Lord Bacon.

"In all conditions and circumstances, well-being is in the power of those who have power over
themselves."--J.J. Gurney.

"Where is their common sense? Alas, what imprudence! Early marriages; many children; poor-rates,
and the workhouse.... They are born; they are wretched; they die.... In no foreign country
of far less civilization than England, is there the same improvidence."--Lord Lytton.

"Never did any publike misery
 Rise of it selfe; God's plagues still grounded are
 On common staines of our Humanity:
     And to the flame, which ruineth Mankind,
     Man gives the matter, or at least gives winde."--Daniell.

England is one of the richest countries in the world. Our merchants are enterprising, our manufacturers
are industrious, our labourers are hard-working. There is an accumulation of wealth in the
country to which past times can offer no parallel. The Bank is gorged with gold. There never
was more food in the empire; there never was more money. There is no end to our manufacturing
productions, for the steam-engine never tires. And yet notwithstanding all this wealth, there
is an enormous mass of poverty. Close alongside the Wealth of Nations, there gloomily stalks
the Misery of Nations,--luxurious ease resting upon a dark background of wretchedness.

Parliamentary reports have again and again revealed to us the miseries endured by certain portions
of our working population. They have described the people employed in factories, workshops,
mines, and brickfields, as well as in the pursuits of country life. We have tried to grapple
with the evils of their condition by legislation, but it seems to mock us. Those who sink into
poverty are fed, but they remain paupers. Those who feed them, feel no compassion; and those
who are fed, return no gratitude. There is no bond of sympathy between the givers and the receivers.
Thus the Haves and the Have-nots, the opulent and the indigent, stand at the two extremes of
the social scale, and a wide gulf is fixed between them.

Among rude and savage people, the condition of poverty is uniform. Provided the bare appetites
are satisfied, suffering is scarcely felt. Where slavery exists, indigence is little known;
for it is the master's interest to keep the slave in a condition fit for labour, and the employer
generally takes care to supply the animal wants of the employed. It is only when society becomes
civilized and free, and man enters into competition with his fellows, that he becomes exposed
to indigence, and experiences social misery. Where civilization, as in this country, has reached
its highest point, and where large accumulations of wealth have been made, the misery of the
indigent classes is only rendered more acute by the comfort and luxury with which it is placed
in immediate contrast.

Much of the existing misery is caused by selfishness--by the greed to accumulate wealth on
the one hand, and by improvidence on the other. Accumulation of money has become the great
desire and passion of the age. The wealth of nations, and not the happiness of nations, is
the principal aim. We study political economy, and let social economy shift for itself. Regard
for "Number One" is the prevailing maxim.

High profits are regarded as the summum bonum,--no matter how obtained, or at what sacrifice.
Money is our god: "Devil take the hindmost" our motto. The spirits of darkness rule supreme--

          "Mammon has led them on,
Mammon, the least erect of all the spirits
That fell from Heaven."

With respect to the poorer classes,--what has become of them in the midst of our so-called
civilization? An immense proportion of them remain entirely uncivilized. Though living in a
Christian country, Christianity has never reached them. They are as uncivilized and unchristianized
as the Trinobantes were at the landing of Julius Caesar, about nineteen hundred years ago.
Yet these uncivilized people live in our midst. St. James's and St. Giles's lie close together.
In the Parks of London, you may see how gold is worshipped; in the East End of London, you
may see to what depths human misery may fall.

They work, eat, drink, and sleep: that constitutes their life. They think nothing of providing
for to-morrow, or for next week, or for next year. They abandon themselves to their sensual
appetites; and make no provision whatever for the future. The thought of adversity, or of coming
sorrow, or of the helplessness that comes with years and sickness, never crosses their minds.
In these respects, they resemble the savage tribes, who know no better, and do no worse. Like
the North American Indians, they debase themselves by the vices which accompany civilization,
but make no use whatever of its benefits and advantages.

Captain Parry found the Esquimaux near the North Pole as uncivilized as the miserable creatures
who inhabit the dens of our great cities. They were, of course, improvident; for, like savages
generally, they never save. They were always either feasting or famished.

When they found a quantity of whale's blubber, they would eat as much of it as they could,
and hide the rest. Yet their improvidence gave them no concern. Even when they had been without
food or fuel for days together, they would be as gay and good-humoured as usual. They never
thought of how they should be provided for to-morrow. Saving for the future forms no part of
the savage economy.

Amongst civilized peoples, cold is said to be the parent of frugality. Thus the northern nations
of Europe owe a portion of their prosperity to the rigour of their climate. Cold makes them
save during summer, to provide food, coal, and clothing during winter. It encourages house-building
and housekeeping. Hence Germany is more industrious than Sicily; Holland and Belgium than Andalusia;
North America and Canada than Mexico.

When the late Edward Denison, M.P. for Newark, with unexampled self-denial, gave up a large
portion of his time and labour to reclaim the comparatively uncivilized population of the East
End of London, the first thing he did was to erect an iron church of two stories, the lower
part of which was used as a school and lecture room, and also as a club where men and boys
might read, play games, and do anything else that might keep them out of the drinking-houses.
"What is so bad in this quarter," said Mr. Denison, "is the habitual condition of this mass
of humanity--its uniform mean level, the absence of anything more civilizing than a grinding
organ to raise the ideas beyond the daily bread and beer, the utter want of education, the
complete indifference to religion, with the fruits of all this--improvidence, dirt, and their
secondaries, crime and disease.... There is no one to give a push to struggling energy, to
guide aspiring intelligence, or to break the fall of unavoidable misfortune.... The Mission
Clergyman," he goes on to say, "is a sensible, energetic man, in whose hands the work of civilizing
the people is making as much progress as can be expected. But most of his energy is taken up
in serving tables, nor can any great advance be made while every nerve has to be strained to
keep the people from absolute starvation. And this is what happens every winter.... What a
monstrous thing it is that in the richest country in the world, large masses of the population
should be condemned annually, by a natural operation of nature, to starvation and death. It
is all very well to say, how can it be helped? Why, it was not so in our grandfathers' time.
Behind us they were in many ways, but they were not met every winter with the spectacle of
starving thousands. The fact is, we have accepted the marvellous prosperity which has in the
last twenty years been granted us, without reflecting on the conditions attached to it, and
without nerving ourselves to the exertion and the sacrifices which their fulfilment demands."

And yet Mr. Denison clearly saw that if the people were sufficiently educated, and taught to
practise the virtue of Thrift, much of this misery might be prevented. "The people," he elsewhere
says, "create their destitution and their disease. Probably there are hardly any of the most
needy who, if they had been only moderately frugal and provident, could not have placed themselves
in a position to tide over the occasional months of want of work, or of sickness, which there
always must be.... I do not underrate the difficulty of laying by out of weekly earnings, but
I say it can be done. A dock-labourer, while a young, strong, unmarried man, could lay by half
his weekly wages, and such men are almost sure of constant employment."

After showing how married men might also save, Mr. Denison goes on to say, "Saving is within
the reach of nearly every man, even if quite at the bottom of the tree; but if it were of anything
like common occurrence, the destitution and disease of this city would be kept within quite
manageable limits. And this will take place. I may not live to see it, but it will be within
two generations. For, unfortunately, this amount of change may be effected without the least
improvement in the spiritual condition of the people. Good laws, energetically enforced, with
compulsory education, supplemented by gratuitous individual exertion (which will then have
a much reduced field and much fairer prospects), will certainly succeed in giving the mass
of the people so much light as will generally guide them into so much industry and morality
as is clearly conducive to their bodily ease and advancement in life."

The difference in thriftiness between the English workpeople and the inhabitants of Guernsey
is thus referred to by Mr. Denison: "The difference between poverty and pauperism is brought
home to us very strongly by what I see here. In England, we have people faring sumptuously
while they are getting good wages, and coming on the parish paupers the moment those wages
are suspended. Here, people are never dependent upon any support but their own; but they live,
of their own free will, in a style of frugality which a landlord would be hooted at for suggesting
to his cottagers. We pity Hodge, reduced to bacon and greens, and to meat only once a week.
The principal meal of a Guernsey farmer consists of soupe à la graisse, which is, being interpreted,
cabbage and peas stewed with a little dripping. This is the daily dinner of men who own perhaps
three or four cows, a pig or two, and poultry. But the produce and the flesh of these creatures
they sell in the market, investing their gains in extension of land, or stock, or in "quarters,"
that is, rent-charges on land, certificates of which are readily bought and sold in the market."[1]

[Footnote 1: Letters and other writings of the late Edward Denison, M.P., pp. 141, 142.]

Mr. Dension died before he could accomplish much. He was only able to make a beginning. The
misery, arising from improvidence, which he so deeply deplored, still exists, and is even more
widely spread. It is not merely the artizan who spends all that he earns, but the classes above
him, who cannot plead the same excuse of ignorance. Many of what are called the "upper" classes
are no more excusable than the "lower." They waste their means on keeping up appearances, and
in feeding folly, dissipation, and vice.

No one can reproach the English workman with want of industry. He works harder and more skilfully
than the workman of any other country; and he might be more comfortable and independent in
his circumstances, were he as prudent as he is laborious. But improvidence is unhappily the
defect of the class. Even the best-paid English workmen, though earning more money than the
average of professional men, still for the most part belong to the poorer classes because of
their thoughtlessness. In prosperous times they are not accustomed to make provision for adverse
times; and when a period of social pressure occurs, they are rarely found more than a few weeks
ahead of positive want.

Hence, the skilled workman, unless trained in good habits, may exhibit no higher a life than
that of the mere animal; and the earning of increased wages will only furnish him with increased
means for indulging in the gratification of his grosser appetites. Mr. Chadwick says, that
during the Cotton Famine, "families trooped into the relief rooms in the most abject condition,
whose previous aggregate wages exceeded the income of many curates,--as had the wages of many
of the individual workmen."[1] In a time of prosperity, working-people feast, and in a time
of adversity they "clem." Their earnings, to use their own phrase, "come in at the spigot and
go out at the bunghole." When prosperity comes to an end, and they are paid off, they rely
upon chance and providence--the providence of the Improvident!

[Footnote 1: Address on Economy and Trade. By EDWIN CHADWICK, C.B., p. 22.]

Though trade has invariably its cycles of good and bad years, like the lean and fat kine in
Pharaoh's dream--its bursts of prosperity, followed by glut, panic, and distress--the thoughtless
and spendthrift take no heed of experience, and make no better provision for the future. Improvidence
seems to be one of the most incorrigible of faults. "There are whole neighbourhoods in the
manufacturing districts," says Mr. Baker in a recent Report, "where not only are there no savings
worth mentioning, but where, within a fortnight of being out of work, the workers themselves
are starving for want of the merest necessaries." Not a strike takes place, but immediately
the workmen are plunged in destitution; their furniture and watches are sent to the pawnshop,
whilst deplorable appeals are made to the charitable, and numerous families are cast upon the
poor-rates.

This habitual improvidence--though of course there are many admirable exceptions--is the real
cause of the social degradation of the artizan. This too is the prolific source of social misery.
But the misery is entirely the result of human ignorance and self-indulgence. For though the
Creator has ordained poverty, the poor are not necessarily, nor as a matter of fact, the miserable.
Misery is the result of moral causes,--most commonly of individual vice and improvidence.

The Rev. Mr. Norris, in speaking of the habits of the highly paid miners and iron-workers of
South Staffordshire, says, "Improvidence is too tame a word for it--it is recklessness; here
young and old, married and unmarried, are uniformly and almost avowedly self-indulgent spendthrifts.
One sees this reckless character marring and vitiating the nobler traits of their nature. Their
gallantry in the face of danger is akin to foolhardiness; their power of intense labour is
seldom exerted except to compensate for time lost in idleness and revelry; their readiness
to make 'gatherings' for their sick and married comrades seems only to obviate the necessity
of previous saving; their very creed--and, after their sort, they are a curiously devotional
people, holding frequent prayer-meetings in the pits--often degenerates into fanatical fatalism.
But it is seen far more painfully and unmistakably in the alternate plethora and destitution
between which, from year's end to year's end, the whole population seems to oscillate. The
prodigal revelry of the reckoning night, the drunkenness of Sunday, the refusal to work on
Monday and perhaps Tuesday, and then the untidiness of their home towards the latter part of
the two or three weeks which intervene before the next pay-day; their children kept from school,
their wives and daughters on the pit-bank, their furniture in the pawnshop; the crowded and
miry lanes in which they live, their houses often cracked from top to bottom by the 'crowning
in' of the ground, without drainage, or ventilation, or due supply of water;--such a state
of things as this, co-existing with earnings which might ensure comfort and even prosperity,
seems to prove that no legislation can cure the evil."

We have certainly had numerous "Reforms." We have had household suffrage, and vote by ballot.
We have relieved the working classes of the taxes on corn, cattle, coffee, sugar, and provisions
generally; and imposed a considerable proportion of the taxes from which they have been relieved
on the middle and upper ranks. Yet these measures have produced but little improvement in the
condition of the working people. They have not applied the principle of Reform to themselves.
They have not begun at home. Yet the end of all Reform is the improvement of the individual.
Everything that is wrong in Society results from that which is wrong in the Individual. When
men are bad, society is bad.

Lord John Russell once made a similar statement to a body of working men who waited upon him
for the purpose of asking relief from taxation. "You complain of the taxes," he said; "but
think of how you tax yourselves. You consume about fifty millions yearly in drink. Is there
any Government that would dare to tax you to that extent? You have it in your own power greatly
to reduce the taxes, and that without in any way appealing to us."

Complaining that the laws are bad, and that the taxes are heavy, will not mend matters. Aristocratic
government, and the tyranny of masters, are nothing like so injurious as the tyranny of vicious
appetites. Men are easily led away by the parade of their miseries, which are for the most
part voluntary and self-imposed,--the results of idleness, thriftlessness, intemperance, and
misconduct. To blame others for what we suffer, is always more agreeable to our self-pride,
than to blame ourselves. But it is perfectly clear that people who live from day to day without
plan, without rule, without forethought--who spend all their earnings, without saving anything
for the future--are preparing beforehand for inevitable distress. To provide only for the present,
is the sure means to sacrificing the future. What hope can there be for a people whose only
maxim seems to be, "Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die"?

All this may seem very hopeless; yet it is not entirely so. The large earnings of the working
classes is an important point to start with. The gradual diffusion of education will help them
to use, and not abuse, their means of comfortable living. The more extended knowledge of the
uses of economy, frugality, and thrift, will help them to spend their lives more soberly, virtuously,
and religiously. Mr. Denison was of opinion that much of this might be accomplished "within
two generations." Social improvement is always very slow. How extremely tardy has been the
progress of civilization! How gradually have its humanizing influences operated in elevating
the mass of the people! It requires the lapse of generations before its effects can be so much
as discerned: for a generation is but as a day in the history of civilization. It has cost
most nations ages of wars, before they could conquer their right of existence as nations. It
took four centuries of persecutions and martyrdoms to establish Christianity, and two centuries
of civil wars to establish the Reformation. The emancipation of the bondsmen from feudal slavery
was only reached through long ages of misery. From the days in which our British progenitors
rushed to battle in their war-paint,--or those more recent times when the whole of the labouring
people were villeins and serfs, bought and sold with the soil which they tilled,--to the times
in which we now live,--how wide the difference, how gratifying the contrast. Surely it ought
not to be so difficult to put an end to the Satanic influences of thriftlessness, drunkenness,
and improvidence!

CHAPTER IV.

MEANS OF SAVING.

"Love, therefore, labour: if thou should'st not want it for food, thou may'st for physic. It
is wholesome for the body, and good for the mind; it prevents the fruit of idleness."--William
Penn.

"The parent who does not teach his child a trade, teaches him to be a thief."--Brahminical
Scriptures.

Those who say that "It can't be done," are probably not aware that many of the working classes
are in the receipt of incomes considerably larger than those of professional men.

That this is the case, is not, by any means, a secret. It is published in blue-books, it is
given in evidence before parliamentary committees, it is reported in newspapers. Any coal-owner,
or iron-master, or cotton-spinner, will tell you of the high wages that he pays to his workpeople.

Families employed in the cotton manufacture are able to earn over three pounds a week, according
to the number of the children employed.[1] Their annual incomes will thus amount to about a
hundred and fifty pounds a year,--which is considerably larger than the incomes of many professional
men--higher than the average of country surgeons, higher than the average of the clergy and
ministers of all denominations, higher than the average of the teachers of common schools,
and probably higher than the average income of the middle classes of the United Kingdom generally.

[Footnote 1: A return of seven families employed by Henry Ashworth, New Cayley Mills, Lancashire,
is given in the Blue Book, entitled, "Report of the Paris Universal Exhibition, 1867, containing
the Returns relative to the New Order of Reward," p. 163. Of the seven families, the lowest
earnings per family amounted to £2 14s. 6d.; and the highest to £3 19s. a week.]

An employer at Blackburn informs us that many persons earn upwards of five pounds a week,--or
equal to an average income of two hundred and sixty pounds a year. Such families, he says,
"ought not to expend more than three pounds weekly. The rest should be saved. But most of them,
after feeding and clothing themselves, spend the rest in drink and dissipation."

The wages are similar in the Burnley district, where food, drink, and dress absorb the greater
part of the workpeople's earnings. In this, as in other factory districts, "the practice of
young persons (mill-workers) boarding with their parents is prevalent, and is very detrimental
to parental authority." Another reporter says, "Wages are increasing: as there is more money,
and more time to spend it in, sobriety is not on the increase, especially amongst females."

The operatives employed in the woollen manufacture receive about forty shillings a week, and
some as much as sixty,[1] besides the amount earned by their children.

A good mechanic in an engine shop makes from thirty-five to forty-five shillings a week, and
some mechanics make much larger wages. Multiply these figures, and it will be found that they
amount to an annual income of from a hundred to a hundred and twenty pounds a year.

[Footnote 1: See the above Blue Book, p. 57, certifying the wages paid by Bliss and Son, of
Chipping Norton Woollen Factory.]

But the colliers and iron-workers are paid much higher wages. One of the largest iron-masters
recently published in the newspapers the names of certain colliers in his employment who were
receiving from four to five pounds a week,--or equal to an annual income of from two hundred
to two hundred and fifty pounds a year.[1]

[Footnote 1: Richard Fothergill, Esq., M.P. He published a subsequent letter, from which we
extract the following:--

"No doubt such earnings seem large to clerks, and educated men, who after receiving a costly
education have often to struggle hard for bread; but they are nevertheless the rightful earnings
of steady manual labour; and I have the pleasure of adding that, while all steady, well-disposed
colliers, in good health, could make equally good wages, many hundreds in South Wales are quietly
doing as much or more: witness a steady collier in my employment, with his two sons living
at home, whose monthly pay ticket has averaged £30 for the past twelvemonth.

"Another steady collier within my information, aided by his son, h as earned during the past
five months upwards of £20 a month on the average, and from his manual labour as an ordinary
collier--for it is of the working colliers and firemen I am speaking all along--he has built
fifteen good houses, and, disregarding all menaces, he continues his habits of steady industry,
whereby he hopes to accumulate an independence for his family in all events."]

Iron-workers are paid a still higher rate of wages. A plate-roller easily makes three hundred
a year.[2] The rollers in rail mills often make much more. In busy times they have made as
much as from seven to ten guineas a week, or equal to from three to five hundred a year.[3]
But, like the workers in cotton mills, the iron workers are often helped by their sons, who
are also paid high wages. Thus, the under-hands are usually boys from fourteen years of age
and upwards, who earn about nineteen shillings a week, and the helpers are boys of under fourteen,
who earn about nine shillings a week.

[Footnote 2: See Messrs. Fox, Head, and Co.'s return, in the Blue Book above referred to. This
was the rate of wages at Middlesborough, in Yorkshire. In South Wales, the wages of the principal
operatives engaged in the iron manufacture, recently, were--Puddlers. 9s. a day; first heaters
on the rail mills. 8s. 9d. a day: second heaters, 11s. 7d.: roughers, 10s. 9d.: rollers, 13s.
2d., or equal to that amount.]

[Footnote 3: Even at the present time, when business is so much depressed, the mill-rollers
make an average wage of £5 10s. a week.]

These earnings are far above the average incomes of the professional classes. The rail rollers
are able to earn a rate of pay equal to that of Lieutenant-Colonels in Her Majesty's Foot Guards;
plate-rollers equal to that of Majors of Foot; and roughers equal to that of Lieutenants and
Adjutants.

Goldsmith spoke of the country curate as "passing rich with forty pounds a year." The incomes
of curates have certainly increased since the time when Goldsmith wrote, but nothing like the
incomes of skilled and unskilled workmen. If curates merely worked for money, they would certainly
change their vocation, and become colliers and iron-workers.

When the author visited Renfrewshire a few years ago, the colliers were earning from ten to
fourteen shillings a day. According to the common saying, they were "making money like a minting
machine." To take an instance, a father and three sons were earning sixty pounds a month,--or
equal to a united income of more than seven hundred pounds a year. The father was a sober,
steady, "eident" man. While the high wages lasted, he was the first to enter the pit in the
morning, and the last to leave it at night. He only lost five days in one year (1873-4),--the
loss being occasioned by fast-days and holidays. Believing that the period of high wages could
not last long, he and his sons worked as hard as they could. They saved a good deal of money,
and bought several houses; besides educating themselves to occupy higher positions.

In the same neighbourhood, another collier, with four sons, was earning money at about the
same rate per man, that is about seventy-five-pounds a mouth, or nine hundred pounds a year.
This family bought five houses within a year, and saved a considerable sum besides. The last
information we had respecting them was that the father had become a contractor,--that he employed
about sixty colliers and "reddsmen,"[1] and was allowed so much for every ton of coals brought
to bank. The sons were looking after their father's interests. They were all sober, diligent,
sensible men; and took a great deal of interest in the education and improvement of the people
in their neighbourhood.

[Footnote 1: "Reddsmen" are the men who clear the way for the colliers. They "redd up" the
debris, and build up the roof (in the long wall system) as the colliery advances.]

At the same time that these two families of colliers were doing so well, it was very different
with the majority of their fellow-workmen. These only worked about three days in every week.
Some spent their earnings at the public-house; others took a whisky "ploy" at the seaside.
For that purpose they hired all the gigs, droskies, cabs, or "machines," about a fortnight
beforehand. The results were seen, as the successive Monday mornings come round. The magistrate
sat in the neighbouring town, where a number of men and women, with black eyes and broken heads,
were brought before him for judgment. Before the time of high wages, the Court-house business
was got through in an hour: sometimes there was no business at all. But when the wages were
doubled, the magistrate could scarcely get through the business in a day. It seemed as if high
wages meant more idleness, more whisky, and more broken heads and faces.

These were doubtless "roaring times" for the colliers, who, had they possessed the requisite
self-denial, might have made little fortunes. Many of the men who worked out the coal remained
idle three or four days in the week; while those who burnt the coal, were famished and frozen
for want of it. The working people who were not colliers, will long remember that period as
the time of the coal famine. While it lasted, Lord Elcho went over to Tranent--a village in
East Lothian--to address the colliers upon their thriftlessness, their idleness, and their
attempted combinations to keep up the price of coal.

He had the moral courage--a quality much wanted in these days--to tell his constituents some
hard but honest truths. He argued with them about the coal famine, and their desire to prolong
it. They were working three days a week, and idling the other days. Some of them did not do
a stroke of work during a week or a fortnight; others were taking about a hundred Bank holidays
yearly. But what were they doing with the money they earned? Were they saving it for a rainy
day; or, when the "roaring times" no longer existed, were they preparing to fall back upon
the poor-rates? He found that in one case a man, with his two sons, was earning seven pounds
in a fortnight. "I should like," he said, "to see those Scotchmen who are in the mining business
taking advantage of these happy times, and endeavouring by their industry to rise from their
present position--to exercise self-help, to acquire property, and possibly to become coal masters
themselves."

It had been said in a newspaper, that a miner was earning wages equal to that of a Captain,
and that a mining boy was earning wages equal to that of a Lieutenant in Her Majesty's service.
"I only know," said Lord Elcho, "that I have a boy who, when he first joined Her Majesty's
service, was an Ensign, and that his wage--to earn which, remember, he had, under the purchase
system, to pay five hundred pounds,--was not the wage you are now receiving, but the wage which
you were receiving in bad times,--and that was only five shillings a day." It might be said
that the collier risks his life in earning his wages; but so does the soldier; and the gallant
boy to whom Lord Elcho referred, afterwards lost his life in the Ashantee campaign.

The times of high wages did not leave a very good impression on the public mind. Prices became
higher, morals became lower, and the work done was badly done. There was a considerable deterioration
in the character of British workmanship. "We began to rely too much upon the foreigner. Trade
was to a large extent destroyed, and an enormous loss of capital was sustained, both by the
workmen and by the masters. Lord Aberdare was of opinion that three millions sterling were
lost by the workmen alone, during the recent strike in South Wales. One hundred and twenty
thousand workmen were in enforced idleness at once, and one hundred and fifty thousand pounds
were lost every week in wages during the time that they remained idle.

What the employers think of the recent flash of "prosperity," can easily be imagined. But it
may not be unnecessary to quote some of the statements of correspondents. A large employer
of labour in South Lancashire says: "Drunkenness increases, and personal violence is not sufficiently
discouraged. High wages and household suffrage came upon the people before education had prepared
them for the change."

In a large iron-work near Newcastle, where the men were paid the highest wages for rolling
plates and rails--and where they were earning between three and four hundred pounds a year--the
proprietors observe: "Except in a few instances, we are afraid that workmen and their families
spend most of their earnings." Another employer in South Staffordshire says: In the majority
of cases, the men employed in the iron-work spend the whole of their wages before the end of
the following week. There are, of course, some exceptions; but they are, unhappily, very few."
Another, in South Wales, says: "As to the thrifty habits of the men, a small minority are careful
and saving; they generally invest their money in cottage property. But the great majority of
the men spend their money often before they earn it, and that in the most reckless way. Large
sums are spent in drink: this leads to idleness; and, owing to drinking and idling, the works
are kept short of men until about Wednesday in each week, when the greater part of the most
idly disposed have become sobered down. Of course, when wages are low, the men work more regularly.
There is less drinking, and altogether the condition of the place is healthier in every respect
both in a moral and physical sense."

Another observer remarks, that the miners of Bilston are about six thousand in number, and
they spend more than fifty thousand pounds annually in the purchase of ale and liquors. Their
improvidence may be studied with advantage in the Bilston Market. No other market is supplied
with finer poultry, or comparatively to the population, in greater abundance; and this is chiefly,
if not entirely, for, the consumption of the labouring classes,--for the resident inhabitants,
not directly associated with those classes are few in number. Sordid and ill-favoured men may
there be seen buying on Saturday, chickens, ducks, and geese, which they eat for supper; and
in some instances, bottled porter and wine. Yet, so little have they beforehand in the world,
that if the works were to stop, they would begin within a fortnight to pawn the little furniture
of their cottages, and their clothes, for subsistence and for drink.

Mr. Chambers, of Edinburgh, in his description of the working classes of Sunderland makes these
remarks: "With deep sorrow I mention that everywhere one tale was told. Intemperance prevails
to a large extent; good wages are squandered on mean indulgences; there is little care for
the morrow, and the workhouse is the ultimate refuge. One man, a skilled worker in an iron-foundry,
was pointed out as having for years received a wage of one guinea a day, or six guineas a week;
he had spent all, mostly in drink, and was now reduced to a lower department at a pound a week."

Another illustration occurs. A clerk at Blackburn took a house for twenty pounds a year, and
sublet the cellars underneath to a factory operative at a rental of five pounds a year. The
clerk had a wife, four children, and a servant; the operative had a wife and five children.
The clerk and his family were well dressed, their children went to school, and all went to
church on Sundays. The operative's family went, some to the factory, others to the gutter,
but none to school; they were ill-dressed, excepting on Sundays, when they obtained their clothes
from the pawnshop. As the Saturdays came round, the frying-pan in the cellar was almost constantly
at work until Monday night; and as regularly as Thursday arrived, the bundle of clothes was
sent to the pawnshop. Yet the income of the upper-class family in the higher part of the house
was a hundred a year; and the income of the lower class family in the cellar was fifty pounds
more--that is, a hundred and fifty pounds a year!

An employer in the same neighbourhood used to say, "I cannot afford lamb, salmon, young ducks
and green peas, new potatoes, strawberries and such-like, until after my hands have been consuming
these delicacies of the season for some three or four weeks."

The intense selfishness, thriftlessness, and folly of these highly paid operatives, is scarcely
credible. Exceptions are frequently taken to calling the working classes "the lower orders;"
but "the lower orders" they always will be, so long as they indicate such sensual indulgence
and improvidence. In cases such as these, improvidence is not only a great sin, and a feeder
of sin, but it is a great cruelty. In the case of the father of a family, who has been instrumental
in bringing a number of helpless beings into the world, it is heartless and selfish in the
highest degree to spend money on personal indulgences such as drink, which do the parent no
good, and the mother and the children, through the hereditary bad example, an irreparable amount
of mischief. The father takes sick, is thrown out of work, and his children are at once deprived
of the means of subsistence. The reckless parent has not even taken the precaution to enter
a Provident or a Benefit Society; and while he is sick, his wife and children are suffering
the pangs of hunger. Or, he dies; and the poor creatures are thrown upon the charity of strangers,
or on the miserable pittance wrung from the poor-rates.

It would seem to be of little use preaching up an extension of rights to a people who are so
supinely indifferent to their own well-being,--who are really unconcerned about their own elevation.
The friends of the industrious should faithfully tell them that they must exercise prudence,
economy, and self-denial, if they would really be raised from selfish debasement, and become
elevated to the dignity of thinking beings. It is only by practising the principles of self-dependence
that they can achieve dignity, stability, and consideration in society; or that they can acquire
such influence and power as to raise them in the scale of social well-being.

Brown, the Oxford shoemaker, was of opinion that "a good mechanic is the most independent man
in the world." At least he ought to be such. He has always a market for his skill; and if he
be ordinarily diligent, sober, and intelligent, he may be useful, healthy, and happy. With
a thrifty use of his means, he may, if he earns from thirty to forty shillings a week, dress
well, live well, and educate his children creditably.

It is most disheartening to find that so many of the highest paid workmen in the kingdom should
spend so large a portion of their earnings in their own personal and sensual gratification.
Many spend a third, and others half their entire earnings, in drink. It would be considered
monstrous, on the part of any man whose lot has been cast among the educated classes to exhibit
such a degree of selfish indulgence; and to spend even one-fourth of his income upon objects
in which his wife and children have no share.

Mr. Roolmck recently asked, at a public meeting,[1] "Why should the mail who makes £200 or
£300 a year by his mechanical labour, be a rude, coarse, brutal fellow? There is no reason
why he should be so.

[Footnote 1: Meeting of the Mechanics' Institutes at Dewsbury, Yorkshire.]

Why should he not be like a gentleman? Why should not his house be like my house? When I go
home from my labour, what do I find? I find a cheerful wife--I find an elegant, educated woman.
I have a daughter; she is the same. Why should not you find the same happy influences at home?
I want to know, when the working man comes from his daily labour to his home, why he should
not find his table spread as mine is spread; why he should not find his wife well dressed,
cleanly, loving, kind, and his daughter the same?... We all know that many working men, earning
good wages, spend their money in the beerhouse and in drunkenness, instead of in clothing their
wives and families. Why should not these men spend their wages as I spend my small stipend,
in intellectual pleasures, in joining with my family in intellectual pursuits? Why should not
working men, after enjoying their dinners and thanking God for what they have got, turn their
attention to intellectual enjoyments, instead of going out to get drunk in the nearest pothouse!
Depend on it these things ought to go to the heart of a working man; and he is not a friend
to the working man who talks to him and makes him believe that he is a great man in the State,
and who don't tell him what are the duties of his position."

It is difficult to account for the waste and extravagance of working people. It must be the
hereditary remnant of the original savage. It must be a survival. The savage feasts and drinks
until everything is gone; and then he hunts or goes to war. Or it may be the survival of slavery
in the State. Slavery was one of the first of human institutions. The strong man made the weak
man work for him. The warlike race subdued the less warlike race, and made them their slaves.
Thus slavery existed from the earliest times. In Greece and Rome the righting was done by freemen,
the labour by helots and bondsmen. But slavery also existed in the family. The wife was the
slave of her husband as much as the slave whom he bought in the public market.

Slavery long existed among ourselves. It existed when Caesar lauded. It existed in Saxon times,
when the household work was done by slaves. The Saxons were notorious slave-dealers, and the
Irish were their best customers. The principal mart was at Bristol, from whence the Saxons
exported large numbers of slaves into Ireland so that, according to Irish historians, there
was scarcely a house in Ireland without a British slave in it.

When the Normans took possession of England, they continued slavery. They made slaves of the
Saxons themselves whom they decreed villeins and bondsmen. Domesday Book shows that the toll
of the market at Lewes in Sussex was a penny for a cow, and fourpence for a slave--not a serf
(adscriptus glebae), but an unconditional bondsman. From that time slavery continued in various
forms. It is recorded of "the good old times," that it was not till the reign of Henry IV.
(1320--1413) that villeins, farmers, and mechanics were permitted by law to put their children
to school; and long after that, they dared not educate a son for the Church without a licence
from the lord.[1] The Kings of England, in their contests with the feudal aristocracy, gradually
relaxed the slave laws. They granted charters founding Royal Burghs; and when the slaves fled
into them, and were able to conceal themselves for a year and a day, they then became freemen
of the burgh, and were declared by law to be free.

[Footnote 1: Henry's History of England, Book v., chap. 4]

The last serfs in England were emancipated in the reign of Queen Elizabeth; but the last serfs
in Scotland, were not emancipated until the reign of George III, at the end of last century.
Before then, the colliers and salters belonged to the soil. They were bought and sold with
it. They had no power to determine what their wages should be. Like the slaves in the Southern
States of America, they merely accepted such sustenance as was sufficient to maintain their
muscles and sinews in working order.

They were never required to save for any purpose, for they had no right to their own savings.
They did not need to provide for to-morrow; their masters provided for them. The habit of improvidence
was thus formed; and it still continues. The Scotch colliers, who were recently earning from
ten to fourteen shillings a day, are the grandsons of men who were slaves down to the end of
last century. The preamble of an Act passed in 1799 (39th Geo. III., c. 56), runs as follows:
"Whereas, before the passing of an Act of the fifteenth of his present Majesty, many colliers,
coal-bearers, and salters were bound for life to, and transferable with, the collieries and
salt-works where they worked, but by the said Act their bondage was taken off and they were
declared to be free, notwithstanding which many colliers and coalbearers and salters still
continue in a state of bondage from not having complied with the provisions, or from having
become subject to the penalties of that Act," etc. The new Act then proceeds to declare them
free from servitude. The slaves formerly earned only enough to keep them, and laid by nothing
whatever for the future. Hence we say that the improvidence of the colliers, as of the iron-workers,
is but a survival of the system of slavery in our political constitution.

Matters have now become entirely different. The workman, no matter what his trade, is comparatively
free. The only slavery from which he suffers, is his passion for drink. In this respect he
still resembles the Esquimaux and the North American Indians. Would he be really free? Then
he must exercise the powers of a free, responsible man. He must exercise self-control and self-constraint,--and
sacrifice present personal gratifications for prospective enjoyments of a much higher kind.
It is only by self-respect and self-control that the position of the workman can be really
elevated.

The working man is now more of a citizen than he ever was before. He is a recognized power,
and has been admitted within the pale of the constitution. For him mechanics' institutes, newspapers,
benefit societies, and all the modern agencies of civilization, exist in abundance. He is admitted
to the domain of intellect; and, from time to time, great thinkers, artists, engineers, philosophers,
and poets, rise up from his order, to proclaim that intellect is of no rank, and nobility of
no exclusive order. The influences of civilization are rousing society to its depths; and daily
evidences are furnished of the rise of the industrious classes to a position of social power.
Discontent may, and does, exhibit itself; but discontent is only the necessary condition of
improvement; for a man will not be stimulated to rise up into a higher condition unless he
be first made dissatisfied with the lower condition out of which he has to rise. To be satisfied
is to repose; while, to be rationally dissatisfied, is to contrive, to work, and to act, with
an eye to future advancement.

The working classes very much under-estimate themselves. Though they receive salaries or wages
beyond the average earnings of professional men, yet many of them have no other thought than
that of living in mean houses, and spending their surplus time and money in drink. They seem
wanting in respect for themselves as well as for their class. They encourage the notion that
there is something degrading in labour,--than which nothing can be more false. Labour of all
kinds is dignifying and honourable; it is the idler, above all others, who is undignified and
dishonourable.

"Let the working man," says Mr. Sterling, "try to connect his daily task, however mean, with
the highest thoughts he can apprehend, and he thereby secures the rightfulness of his lot,
and is raising his existence to his utmost good. It is because the working man has failed to
do this, and because others have failed to help him as they ought, that the lot of labour has
hitherto been associated with what is mean and degrading."

With respect to remuneration, the average of skilled mechanics and artisans, as we have already
said, are better paid than the average of working curates. The working engineer is better paid
than the ensign in a marching regiment. The foreman in any of our large engineering establishments
is better paid than an army surgeon. The rail-roller receives over a guinea a day, while an
assistant navy surgeon receives fourteen shillings, and after three years' service, twenty-one
shillings, with rations. The majority of dissenting ministers are much worse paid than the
better classes of skilled mechanics and artizans; and the average of clerks employed in counting-houses
and warehouses receive wages very much lower.

Skilled workmen might--and, if they had the will, they would--occupy a social position as high
as the educated classes we refer to. What prevents them rising? Merely because they will not
use their leisure to cultivate their minds. They have sufficient money; it is culture that
they want. They ought to know that the position of men in society does not depend so much upon
their earnings, as upon their character and intelligence. And it is because they neglect their
abundant opportunities,--because they are thriftless and spend their earnings in animal enjoyments,--because
they refuse to cultivate the highest parts of their nature,--that they are excluded, or rather
self-excluded, from those social and other privileges in which they are entitled to take part.

Notwithstanding their high wages, they for the most part cling to the dress, the language,
and the manners of their class. They appear, during their leisure hours, in filthy dresses,
and unwashed hands. No matter how skilled the workman may be, he is ready to sink his mind
and character to the lowest level of his co-workers. Even the extra money which he earns by
his greater skill, often contributes to demoralize and degrade him. And yet he might dress
as well, live as well, and be surrounded by the physical comforts and intellectual luxuries
of professional men. But no! From week to week his earnings are wasted. He does not save a
farthing; he is a public-house victim; and when work becomes slack, and his body becomes diseased,
his only refuge is the workhouse.

How are these enormous evils to be cured? Some say by better education; others by moral and
religious instruction; others by better homes, and better wives and mothers. All these influences
will doubtless contribute much towards the improvement of the people. One thing is perfectly
clear, that an immense amount of ignorance prevails, and that such ignorance must be dissipated
before the lower classes can be elevated. Their whole character must be changed, and they must
be taught in early life habits of forecast and self-control.

We often hear that "Knowledge is Power;" but we never hear that Ignorance is Power. And yet
Ignorance has always had more power in the world than Knowledge. Ignorance dominates. It is
because of the evil propensities of men that the costly repressive institutions of modern governments
exist.

Ignorance arms men against each other; provides gaols and penitentiaries; police and constabulary.
All the physical force of the State is provided by Ignorance; is required by Ignorance; is
very often wielded by Ignorance. We may well avow, then, that Ignorance is Power.

Ignorance is powerful, because Knowledge, as yet, has obtained access only to the minds of
the few. Let Knowledge become more generally diffused; let the multitude become educated, thoughtful,
and wise; and then Knowledge may obtain the ascendancy over Ignorance. But that time has not
yet arrived.

Look into the records of crime, and you will find that, for one man possessed of wisdom or
knowledge who commits a crime, there are a hundred ignorant. Or, into the statistics of drunkenness
and improvidence of all sorts; still Ignorance is predominant. Or, into the annals of pauperism;
there, again, Ignorance is Power.

The principal causes of anxiety in this country, are the social suffering and disease which
proceed from Ignorance. To mitigate these, we form associations, organize societies, spend
money, and labour in committees. But the power of Ignorance is too great for us. We almost
despair while we work. We feel that much of our effort is wasted. We are often ready to give
up in dismay, and recoil from our encounter with the powers of evil.

"How forcible are right words!" exclaimed Job. Yes! But, with equal justice, he might have
said, "How forcible are wrong words!" The wrong words have more power with ignorant minds than
the right words. They fit themselves into wrong heads, and prejudiced heads, and empty heads;
and have power over them. The right words have often no meaning for them, any more than if
they were the words of some dead language. The wise man's thoughts do not reach the multitude,
but fly over their heads. Only the few as yet apprehend them.

The physiologist may discuss the laws of health, and the Board of Health may write tracts for
circulation among the people; but half the people cannot so much as read; and of the remaining
half, but a very small proportion are in the habit of thinking. Thus the laws of health are
disregarded; and when fever comes, it finds a wide field to work upon: in undrained and filthy
streets and back-yards,--noisome, pestilential districts,--foul, uncleansed dwellings,--large
populations ill-supplied with clean water and with pure air. There death makes fell havoc;
many destitute widows and children have to be maintained out of the poor's-rates; and then
we reluctantly confess to ourselves that Ignorance is Power.

The only method of abating this power of Ignorance, is by increasing that of Knowledge. As
the sun goes up the sky, the darkness disappears; and the owl, the bat, and the beasts of prey,
slink out of sight. Give the people knowledge,--give them better education,--and thus, crime
will be abated,--drunkenness, improvidence, lawlessness, and all the powers of evil, will,
to a certain extent, disappear.[1]

[Footnote 1: The recent reports of Mr. Tremenheere to the Secretary of State for the Home Department,
with respect to the condition of the population in the iron and coal districts, show that he
places considerable reliance upon the effect of Education. The evidence which he brought together
from all parts of the country, shows that the increase of immorality with the increase of wages
was attributed to the low tastes and desires of the people.--that the obstinate refusal of
the men to exert more than two-thirds of their fair powers of work, by which the cost of production
is largely enhanced, capital crippled, and the public mulcted, was due to the same cause,--that
their readiness to become the prey of unionists and agitators is traceable to their want of
the most elementary principles of thought,--that most of the accidents, which are of weekly
occurrence, are occasioned by their stupidity and ignorance,--that wherever they have advanced
in intelligence, they have become more skilful, more subordinate, and more industrious. These
facts have convinced the more thoughtful and far-sighted masters, that the only sure means
of maintaining their ground under increasing foreign competition, and averting a social crisis,
is to reform the character of the rising generation of operatives by education,]

It must, however, be admitted that education is not enough. The clever man may be a clever
rogue; and the cleverer he is, the cleverer rogue he will be. Education, therefore, must be
based upon religion and morality; for education by itself will not eradicate vicious propensities.
Culture of intellect has but little effect upon moral conduct. You may see clever, educated,
literary men, with no conduct whatever,--wasteful, improvident, drunken, and vicious. It follows,
therefore, that education must be based upon the principles of religion and morality.

Nor has the poverty of the people so much to do with their social degradation as is commonly
supposed. The question is essentially a moral one. If the income of the labouring community
could be suddenly doubled, their happiness will not necessarily be increased; for happiness
does not consist in money. In fact, the increased wages might probably prove a curse instead
of a blessing. In the case of many, there would be an increased consumption of drink, with
the usual results,--an increase of drunken violence, and probably an increase of crime.

The late Mr. Clay, chaplain of the Preston House of Correction, after characterizing drunkenness
as the GREAT SIN, proceeds: "It still rises in savage hostility, against everything allied
to order and religion; it still barricades every avenue by which truth and peace seek to enter
the poor man's home and heart.... Whatever may be the predominant cause of crime, it is very
clear that ignorance, religious ignorance, is the chief ingredient in the character of the
criminal. This combines with the passion for liquor, and offences numberless are engendered
by the union."

The late Sir Arthur Helps, when speaking of high and low wages, and of the means of getting
and spending money, thus expresses himself on the subject, in his "Friends in Council":"My
own conviction is, that throughout England every year there is sufficient wages given, even
at the present low rate, to make the condition of the labouring poor quite different from what
it is. But then these wages must be well spent. I do not mean that the poor could of themselves
alone effect this change; but were they seconded by the advice, the instruction, and the aid
(not given in money, or only in money lent to produce the current interest of the day) of the
classes above them, the rest the poor might accomplish for themselves. And, indeed, all that
the rich could do to elevate the poor could hardly equal the advantage that would be gained
by the poor themselves, if they could thoroughly subdue that one vice of drunkenness, the most
wasteful of all the vices.

"In the living of the poor (as indeed of all of us) there are two things to be considered;
how to get money, and how to spend it. Now, I believe, the experience of employers will bear
me out in saying, that it is frequently found that the man with 20s. a week does not live more
comfortably, or save more, than the man with 14s.,--the families of the two men being the same
in number and general circumstances. It is probable that unless he have a good deal of prudence
and thought, the man who gets at all more than the average of his class does not know what
to do with it, or only finds in it a means superior to that which his fellows possess of satisfying
his appetite for drinking."

Notwithstanding, however, the discouraging circumstances to which we have referred, we must
believe that in course of time, as men's nature becomes improved by education--secular, moral,
and religious--they may be induced to make a better use of their means, by considerations of
prudence, forethought, and parental responsibility. A German writer speaks of the education
given to a child as a capital--equivalent to a store of money--placed at its disposal by the
parent. The child, when grown to manhood, may employ the education, as he might employ the
money, badly; but that is no argument against the possession of either. Of course, the value
of education, as of money, chiefly consists in its proper use. And one of the advantages of
knowledge is, that the very acquisition of it tends to increase the capability of using it
aright; which is certainly not the case with the accumulation of money.

Education, however obtained, is always an advantage to a man. Even as a means of material advancement,
it is worthy of being sought after,--not to speak of its moral uses as an elevator of character
and intelligence. And if, as Dr. Lyon Playfair insists, the composition between industrial
nations must before long become a competition mainly of intelligence, it is obvious that England
must make better provision for the education of its industrial classes, or be prepared to fall
behind in the industrial progress of nations.

"It would be of little avail," said Dr. Brewster of Edinburgh, "to the peace and happiness
of society, if the great truths of the material world were confined to the educated and the
wise. The organization of science thus limited would cease to be a blessing. Knowledge secular,
and knowledge divine, the double current of the intellectual life-blood of man, must not merely
descend through the great arteries of the social frame; it must be taken up by the minutest
capillaries before it can nourish and purify society. Knowledge is at once the manna and the
medicine of our moral being. Where crime is the bane, knowledge is the antidote. Society may
escape from the pestilence and may survive the famine; but the demon of ignorance, with his
grim adjutants of vice and riot, will pursue her into her most peaceful haunts, destroying
our institutions, and converting into a wilderness the paradise of social and domestic life.
The State has, therefore, a great duty to perform. As it punishes crime, it is bound to prevent
it. As it subjects us to laws, it must teach us to read them; and while it thus teaches, it
must teach also the ennobling truths which display the power and the wisdom of the great Lawgiver,
thus diffusing knowledge while it is extending education; and thus making men contented, and
happy, and humble, while it makes them quiet and obedient subjects."

A beginning has already been made with public school education. Much still remains to be done
to establish the system throughout the empire. At present we are unable to judge of the effects
of what has been done. But if general education accomplish as much for England as it has already
accomplished for Germany, the character of this country will be immensely improved during the
next twenty years. Education has almost banished drunkenness from Germany; and had England
no drunkenness, no thriftlessness, no reckless multiplication, our social miseries would be
comparatively trivial.

We must therefore believe that as intelligence extends amongst the working class, and as a
better moral tone pervades them, there will be a rapid improvement in their sober, thrifty
and provident habits; for these form the firmest and surest foundations for social advancement.
There is a growing desire, on the part of the more advanced minds in society, to see the working
men take up their right position. They who do society's work,--who produce, under the direction
of the most intelligent of their number, the wealth of the nation,--are entitled to a much
higher place than they have yet assumed. We believe in this "good time coming," for working
men and women,--when an atmosphere of intelligence shall pervade them--when they will prove
themselves as enlightened, polite, and independent as the other classes of society; and, as
the first and surest step towards this consummation, we counsel them to PROVIDE--to provide
for the future as well as for the present--to provide, in times of youth and plenty, against
the times of adversity, misfortune, and old age.

"If any one intends to improve his condition," said the late William Felkin, Mayor of Nottingham,
himself originally a working man, "he must earn all he can, spend as little as he can, and
make what he does spend, bring him and his family all the real enjoyment he can. The first
saving which a working man makes out of his earnings is the first step,--and because it is
the first, the most important step towards true independence. Now independence is as practicable
in the case of an industrious and economic, though originally poor, workman, as in that of
the tradesman or merchant,--and is as great and estimable a blessing. The same process must
be attended to,--that is, the entire expenditure being kept below the clear income, all contingent
claims being carefully considered and provided for, and the surplus held sacred, to be employed
for those purposes, and those only, which duty or conscience may point out as important or
desirable. This requires a course of laborious exertion and strict economy, a little foresight,
and possibly some privation. But this is only what is common to all desirable objects. And
inasmuch as I know what it is to labour with the hands long hours, and for small wages, as
well as any workman to whom I address myself, and to practise self-denial withal, I am emboldened
to declare from experience that the gain of independence, or rather self-dependence, for which
I plead, is worth infinitely more than all the cost of its attainment; and, moreover, that
to attain it in a greater or less degree, according to circumstances, is within the power of
by far the greater number of skilled workmen engaged in our manufactories."

CHAPTER V.

EXAMPLES OF THRIFT.

"Examples demonstrate the possibility of success."--Cotton.

"The force of his own merit, makes his way."--Shakespeare.

"In the family, as in the State, the best source of wealth is Economy."--Cicero.

"Right action is the result of right faith; but a true and right faith cannot be sustained,
deepened, extended, save in a course of right action."--M'Combie.

Thrift is the spirit of order applied to domestic management and organization. Its object is
to manage frugally the resources of the family; to prevent waste; and avoid useless expenditure.
Thrift is under the influence of reason and forethought, and never works by chance or by fits.
It endeavours to make the most and the best of everything. It does not save money for saving's
sake. It makes cheerful sacrifices for the present benefit of others; or it submits to voluntary
privation for some future good.

Mrs. Inchbald, author of the "Simple Story," was, by dint of thrift, able to set apart the
half of her small income for the benefit of her infirm sister. There was thus about two pounds
a week for the maintenance of each. "Many times," she says, "during the winter, when I was
crying with cold, have I said to myself, 'Thank God, my dear sister need not leave her chamber;
she will find her fire ready for her each morning; for she is now far less able than I am to
endure privation.'" Mrs. Inchbald's family were, for the most part very poor; and she felt
it right to support them during their numerous afflictions. There is one thing that may be
say of Benevolence,--that it has never ruined anyone; though selfishness and dissipation have
ruined thousands.

The words "Waste not, want not," carved in stone over Sir Walter Scott's kitchen fireplace
at Abbotsford, expresses in a few words the secret of Order in the midst of abundance. Order
is most useful in the management of everything,--of a household, of a business, of a manufactory,
of an army. Its maxim is--A place for everything, and everything in its place. Order is wealth;
for, whoever properly regulates the use of his income, almost doubles his resources. Disorderly
persons are rarely rich; and orderly persons are rarely poor.

Order is the best manager of time; for unless work is properly arranged, Time is lost; and,
once lost, it is gone for ever. Order illustrates many important subjects. Thus, obedience
to the moral and natural law, is order. Respect for ourselves and our neighbours, is order.
Regard for the rights and obligations of all, is order. Virtue is order. The world began with
order. Chaos prevailed, before the establishment of order.

Thrift is the spirit of order in human life. It is the prime agent in private economy. It preserves
the happiness of many a household. And as it is usually woman who regulates the order of the
household, it is mainly upon her that the well-doing of society depends. It is therefore all
the more necessary that she should early be educated in the habit and the virtue of orderliness.

The peer, the merchant, the clerk, the artizan, and the labourer, are all of the same nature,
born with the same propensities and subject to similar influences. They are, it is true, born
in different positions, but it rests with themselves whether they shall live their lives nobly
or vilely. They may not have their choice of riches or poverty; but they have their choice
of being good or evil,--of being worthy or worthless.

People of the highest position, in point of culture and education, have often as great privations
to endure as the average of working people. They have often to make their incomes go much further.
They have to keep up a social standing. They have to dress better; and live sufficiently well
for the purpose of health. Though their income may be less than that of colliers and iron-workers,
they are under the moral necessity of educating their sons and bringing them up as gentlemen,
so that they may take their fair share of the world's work.

Thus, the tenth Earl of Buchan brought up a numerous family of children, one of whom afterwards
rose to be Lord Chancellor of England, upon an income not exceeding two hundred a year. It
is not the amount of income, so much as the good use of it, that marks the true man; and viewed
in this light, good sense, good taste, and sound mental culture, are among the best of all
economists.

The late Dr. Aiton said that his father brought up a still larger family on only half the income
of the Earl of Buchan. The following dedication, prefixed to his work on "Clerical Economics,"
is worthy of being remembered: "This work is respectfully dedicated to a Father, now in the
eighty-third year of his age, who, on an income which never exceeded a hundred pounds yearly,
educated, out of a family of twelve children, four sons to liberal professions, and who has
often sent his last shilling to each of them, in their turn, when they were at college."

The author might even cite his own case as an illustration of the advantages of thrift. His
mother was left a widow, when her youngest child--the youngest of eleven--was only three weeks
old. Notwithstanding a considerable debt on account of a suretyship, which was paid, she bravely
met the difficulties of her position, and perseveringly overcame them. Though her income was
less than that of many highly paid working men, she educated her children well, and brought
them up religiously and virtuously. She put her sons in the way of doing well, and if they
have not done so, it was through no fault of hers.

Hume, the historian, was a man of good family; but being a younger brother, his means were
very small. His father died while he was an infant; he was brought up by his mother, who devoted
herself entirely to the rearing and educating of her children. At twenty-three, young Hume
went to France to prosecute his studies. The first book he published was a complete failure.
But he went on again; composed and published another book, which was a success. But he made
no money by it. He became secretary to the military embassy at Vienna and Turin; and at thirty-six
he thought himself rich. Every one knows that a thousand pounds, at five per cent., means fifty
pounds a year; and Hume considered himself independent with that income.

But one of the most remarkable illustrations of Thrift is to be found in the history of the
Rev. Robert Walker--the Wonderful Robert Walker, as he is still called in the district of Cumberland
where he resided. He was curate of Leathwaite during the greater part of last century. The
income of the curacy, at the time of his appointment (1735), was only five pounds a year. His
wife brought him a fortune of forty pounds. Is it possible that he could contrive to live upon
his five pounds a year, the interest of his wife's fortune, and the result of his labours as
a clergyman? Yes, he contrived to do all this; and he not only lived well, though plainly,
but he saved money, which he left for the benefit of his family. He accomplished all this by
means of industry, frugality, and temperance.

First, about his industry. He thoroughly did the work connected with his curacy. The Sabbath
was in all respects regarded by him as a holy day. After morning and evening service, he devoted
the evening to reading the Scriptures and family prayer. On weekdays, he taught the children
of the parish, charging nothing for the education, but only taking so much as the people chose
to give him. The parish church was his school; and while the children were repeating their
lessons by his side, he was, like Shenstone's schoolmistress, engaged in spinning wool. The
fuel of the house consisted of peat, procured by his labour from the neighbouring mosses. He
also assisted his parishioners in haymaking and shearing their flocks,--in which latter art
he was eminently dexterous. In return, the neighbours would present him with a haycock, or
a fleece, as a general acknowledgment of his services.

After officiating as curate of Leathwaite for about twenty years, the annual value of the living
was increased to seventeen pounds ten shillings. Yet at this time Mr. Walker had a family of
eight children. He afterwards maintained one of his sons at Trinity College Dublin, until he
was ready for taking Holy Orders.

The parish pastor was, of course, a most economical man. Yet no act of his life savoured in
the least degree of meanness or avarice. On the other hand, his conduct throughout life displayed
the greatest disinterestedness and generosity. He knew very little of luxuries, and he cared
less. Tea was only used in his house for visitors. The family used milk, which was indeed far
better. Excepting milk, the only other drink used in the house was water--clear water drawn
from the mountain spring. The clothing of the family was comely and decent; but it was all
home-made: it was simple, like their diet. Occasionally one of the mountain sheep was killed
for purposes of food; and towards the end of the year, a cow was killed and salted down for
provision during winter. The hide was tanned, and the leather furnished shoes for the family.
They have lived humbly and frugally, in order to accomplish greater things. They have supported
themselves by their hand labour, until they could support themselves by their head labour.
Some may allege that this is not justifiable--that it is a sin against the proletariat to attempt
to rise in the world,--that "once a cobbler always a cobbler." But, until a better system has
been established, the self-application of individuals is the only method by which science and
knowledge can be conquered, and the world permanently advanced.

Goethe says, "It is perfectly indifferent within what circle an honest man acts, provided he
do but know how to understand and completely fill out that circle;" and again, "An honest and
vigorous will could make itself a path and employ its activity to advantage under every form
of society." "What is the best government?" he asks: "That which teaches us to govern ourselves!"
All that we need, in his opinion, is individual liberty, and self-culture. "Let every one,"
he says, "only do the right in his place, without troubling himself about the turmoil of the
world."

[Footnote 1: The best account of Mr. Walker is to be found in the Appendix to the Poems of
Wordsworth. The poet greatly appreciated the clergyman's character, and noticed him in his
"Excursion," as well as in the Notes to the Sonnets entitled "The River Duddon."]

At all events, it is not by socialism, but by individualism, that anything has been done towards
the achievement of knowledge, and the advancement of society. It is the will and determination
of individual men that impels the world forward in art, in science, and in all the means and
methods of civilization.

Individual men are willing to deny themselves, but associated communities will not. The masses
are too selfish, and fear that advantage will be taken of any sacrifices which they may be
called upon to make. Hence it is amongst the noble band of resolute spirits that we look for
those who raise and elevate the world, as well as themselves. The recollection of what they
have done, acts as a stimulus to others. It braces the mind of man, reanimates his will, and
encourages him to further exertions.

When Lord Elcho addressed the East Lothian colliers, he named several men who had raised themselves
from the coalpit; and first of all he referred to Mr. Macdonald, member for Stafford. "The
beginning of my acquaintance with Mr. Macdonald," he said, "was, when I was told that a miner
wanted to see me in the lobby of the House of Commons. I went out and saw Mr. Macdonald, who
gave me a petition from this district, which he asked me to present. I entered into conversation
with him, and was much struck by his intelligence. He told me that he had begun life as a boy
in the pit in Lanarkshire, and that the money he saved as a youth in the summer, he spent at
Glasgow University in the winter; and that is where he got whatever book-learning or power
of writing he possesses. I say that is an instance that does honour to the miners of Scotland.
Another instance was that of Dr. Hogg, who began as a pitman in this county; worked in the
morning, attended school in the afternoon; then went to the University for four years and to
the Theological Hall for five years; and afterwards, in consequence of his health failing,
he went abroad, and is now engaged as a missionary in Upper Egypt. Or take the case of Mr.
(now Sir George) Elliot, member for North Durham, who has spoken up for the miners all the
better, for having had practical knowledge of their work. He began as a miner in the pit, and
he worked his way up till he has in his employment many thousand men. He has risen to his great
wealth and station from the humblest position; as every man who now hears me is capable of
doing, to a greater or less degree, if he will only be thrifty and industrious."

Lord Elcho might also have mentioned Dr. Hutton, the geologist, a man of a much higher order
of genius; who was the son of a coal-viewer. Bewick, the wood engraver, is also said to have
been the son of a coal-miner. Dr. Campbell was the son of a Loanhead collier: he was the forerunner
of Moffat and Livingstone, in their missionary journeys among the Bechuanas in South Africa.
Allan Ramsay, the poet, was also the son of a miner.

George Stephenson worked his way from the pithead to the highest position as an engineer. George
began his life with industry, and when he had saved a little money, he spent it in getting
a little learning. What a happy man he was, when his wages were increased to twelve shillings
a week. He declared upon that occasion that he was "made a man for life!" He was not only enabled
to maintain himself upon his earnings, but to help his poor parents, and to pay for his own
education. When his skill had increased, and his wages were advanced to a pound a week, he
immediately began, like a thoughtful, intelligent workman, to lay by his surplus money; and
when he had saved his first guinea, he proudly declared to one of his colleagues that he "was
now a rich man!"

And he was right. For the man who, after satisfying his wants, has something to spare, is no
longer poor. It is certain that from that day Stephenson never looked back; his advance as
a self-improving man was as steady as the light of sunrise. A person of large experience has
indeed stated that he never knew, amongst working people, a single instance of a man having
out of his small earnings laid by a pound, who had in the end become a pauper.

When Stephenson proposed to erect his first locomotive, he had not sufficient means to defray
its cost. But in the course of his life as a workman, he had established a character. He was
trusted. He was faithful. He was a man who could be depended on. Accordingly, when the Earl
of Havensworth was informed of Stephenson's desire to erect a locomotive, he at once furnished
him with the means for enabling him to carry his wishes into effect.

Watt, also, when inventing the condensing steam-engine, maintained himself by making and selling
mathematical instruments. He made flutes, organs, compasses,--anything that would maintain
him, until he had completed his invention. At the same time he was perfecting his own education--learning
French, German, mathematics, and the principles of natural philosophy. This lasted for many
years; and by the time that Watt developed his steam-engine and discovered Mathew Boulton,
he had, by his own efforts, become an accomplished and scientific man.

These great workers did not feel ashamed of labouring with their hands for a living; but they
also felt within themselves the power of doing head-work as well as hand-work. And while thus
labouring with their hands, they went on with their inventions, the perfecting of which has
proved of so much advantage to the world. Hugh Miller furnished, in his own life, an excellent
instance of that practical common sense in the business of life which he so strongly recommended
to others. When he began to write poetry, and felt within him the growing powers of a literary
man, he diligently continued his labour as a stone-cutter.

Horace Walpole has said that Queen Caroline's patronage of Stephen Duck, the thresher poet,
ruined twenty men, who all turned poets. It was not so with the early success of Hugh Miller.

At the same time, a man who feels that he has some good work in him, which study and labour
might yet bring out, is fully justified in denying himself, and in applying his energies to
the culture of his intellect. And it is astonishing how much carefulness, thrift, the reading
of books, and diligent application, will help such men onward.

The author in his boyhood knew three men who worked in an agricultural implement maker's shop.
They worked in wood and iron, and made carts, ploughs, harrows, drilling-machines, and such-like
articles. Somehow or other, the idea got into their heads that they might be able to do something
better than making carts and harrows. They did not despise the lot of hand-labour, but they
desired to use it as a step towards something better. Their wages at that time could not have
exceeded from eighteen to twenty shillings a week.

Two of the young men, who worked at the same bench, contrived to save enough money to enable
them to attend college during the winter. At the end of each session they went back to their
hand-labour, and earned enough wages during the summer to enable them to return to their classes
during the winter. The third did not adopt this course. He joined a mechanics' institute which
had just been started in the town in which he lived. By attending the lectures and reading
the books in the library, he acquired some knowledge of chemistry, of the principles of mechanics,
and of natural philosophy. He applied himself closely, studied hard in his evening hours, and
became an accomplished man.

It is not necessary to trace their history; but what they eventually arrived at, may be mentioned.
Of the first two, one became the teacher and proprietor of a large public school; the other
became a well-known dissenting minister; while the third, working his way strenuously and bravely,
became the principal engineer and manager of the largest steamship company in the world.

Although mechanics' institutes are old institutions, they have scarcely been supported by working
men. The public-house is more attractive and more frequented. And yet mechanics' institutes--even
though they are scarcely known south of Yorkshire and Lancashire--have been the means of doing
a great deal of good. By placing sound mechanical knowledge within the reach of even the few
persons who have been disposed to take advantage of them, they have elevated many persons into
positions of great social influence. "We have heard a distinguished man say publicly, that
a mechanics' institution had made him; that but for the access which it had afforded him to
knowledge of all kinds, he would have occupied a very different position. In short, the mechanics'
institution had elevated him from the position of a licensed victualler to that of an engineer.

We have referred to the wise practice of men in humble position maintaining themselves by their
trade until they saw a way towards maintaining themselves by a higher calling. Thus Herschell
maintained himself by music, while pursuing his discoveries in astronomy. When playing the
oboe in the pump-room at Bath, he would retire while the dancers were lounging round the room,
go out and take a peep at the heavens through his telescope, and quietly return to his instrument.
It was while he was thus maintaining himself by music, that he discovered the Georgium Sidus.
When the Royal Society recognized his discovery, the oboe-player suddenly found himself famous.

Franklin long maintained himself by his trade of printing. He was a hard-working man,--thrifty,
frugal and a great saver of time. He worked for character as much as for wages; and when it
was found that he could be relied on, he prospered. At length he was publicly recognized as
a great statesman, and as one of the most scientific men of his time.

Ferguson, the astronomer, lived by portrait painting, until his merits as a scientific man
were recognized. John Dollond maintained himself as a silk weaver in Spitalfields. In the course
of his studies he made great improvements in the refracting telescope; and the achromatic telescope,
which he invented, gave him a high rank among the philosophers of his age. But during the greater
part of his life, while he was carrying on his investigations, he continued, until the age
of forty-six, to carry on his original trade. At length he confined himself entirely to making
telescopes; and then he gave up his trade of a silk weaver. Winckelmann, the distinguished
writer on classical antiquities and the fine arts, was the son of a shoemaker. His father endeavoured,
as long as he could, to give his hoy a learned education; but becoming ill and worn-out, he
had eventually to retire to the hospital. Winckelmann and his father were once accustomed to
sing at night in the streets to raise fees to enable the boy to attend the grammar school.
The younger Winckelmann then undertook, by hard labour, to support his father; and afterwards,
by means of teaching, to keep himself at college. Every one knows how distinguished he eventually
became.

Samuel Richardson, while writing his novels, stuck to his trade of a bookseller. He sold his
books in the front shop, while he wrote them in the back. He would not give himself up to authorship,
because he loved his independence. "You know," he said to his friend Defreval, "how my business
engages me. You know by what snatches of time I write, that I may not neglect that, and that
I may preserve that independency which is the comfort of my life. I never sought out of myself
for patrons. My own industry and God's providence have been my whole reliance. The great are
not great to me unless they are good, and it is a glorious privilege that a middling man enjoys,
who has preserved his independency, and can occasionally (though not stoically) tell the world
what he thinks of that world, in hopes to contribute, though by his mite, to mend it."

The late Dr. Olynthus Gregory, in addressing the Deptford Mechanics' Institution at their first
anniversary, took the opportunity of mentioning various men in humble circumstances (some of
whom he had been able to assist), who, by means of energy, application, and self-denial, had
been able to accomplish great things in the acquisition of knowledge. Thus he described the
case of a Labourer on the turnpike road, who had become an able Greek scholar; of a Fifer,
and a Private Soldier, in a regiment of militia, both self-taught mathematicians, one of whom
became a successful schoolmaster, the other a lecturer on natural philosophy; of a journeyman
Tin-plate worker, who invented rules for the solution of cubic equations; of a country Sexton,
who became a teacher of music, and who, by his love of the study of musical science, was transformed
from a drunken sot to an exemplary husband and father; of a Coal Miner (a correspondent of
Dr. Gregory's), who was an able writer on topics of the higher mathematics; of another correspondent,
a labouring Whitesmith, who was also well acquainted with the course of pure mathematics, as
taught at Cambridge, Dublin, and the military colleges; of a Tailor, who was an excellent geometrician,
and had discovered curves which escaped the notice of Newton, and who laboured industriously
and contentedly at his trade until sixty years of age, when, by the recommendation of his scientific
friends, he was appointed Nautical Examiner at the Trinity House; of a ploughman in Lincolnshire,
who, without aid of men or books, discovered the rotation of the earth, the principles of spherical
astronomy, and invented a planetary system akin to the Tychonic; of a country Shoemaker, who
became distinguished as one of the ablest metaphysical writers in Britain, and who, at more
than fifty years of age, was removed by the influence of his talents and their worth, from
his native country to London, where he was employed to edit some useful publications devoted
to the diffusion of knowledge and the best interests of mankind.

Students of Art have had to practise self-denial in many ways. Quentin Matsys, having fallen
in love with a painter's daughter, and determined to win her. Though but a blacksmith and a
farrier, he studied art so diligently, and acquired so much distinction, that his mistress
afterwards accepted the painter whom she had before rejected as the blacksmith. Flaxman, however,
married his wife before he had acquired any distinction whatever as an artist. He was merely
a skilful and promising pupil. When Sir Joshua Reynolds heard of his marriage, he exclaimed,
"Flaxman is ruined for an artist!" But it was not so. When Flaxman's wife heard of the remark,
she said, "Let us work and economize; I will never have it said that Ann Denbam ruined John
Flaxman as an artist." They economized accordingly. To earn money, Flaxman undertook to collect
the local rates; and what with art and industry, the patient, hard-working, thrifty couple,
after five years of careful saving, set out for Rome together. There Flaxman studied and worked;
there he improved his knowledge of art; and there he acquired the reputation of being the first
of English sculptors.

The greater number of artists have sprung from humble life. If they had been born rich, they
would probably never have been artists. They have had to work their way from one position to
another; and to strengthen their nature by conquering difficulty. Hogarth began his career
by engraving shop-bills. William Sharp began by engraving door-plates. Tassie the sculptor
and medallist, began life as a stone-cutter. Having accidentally seen a collection of pictures,
he aspired to become an artist and entered an academy to learn the elements of drawing. He
continued to work at his old trade until he was able to maintain himself by his new one. He
used his labour as the means of cultivating his skill in his more refined and elevated profession.

Chantry of Sheffield, was an economist both of time and money. He saved fifty pounds out of
his earnings as a carver and gilder; paid the money to his master, and cancelled his indentures.
Then he came up to London, and found employment as a journeyman carver; he proceeded to paint
portraits and model busts, and at length worked his way to the first position as a sculptor.

Canova was a stone-cutter, like his father and his grandfather; and through stone-cutting he
worked his way to sculpture. After leaving the quarry, he went to Venice, and gave his services
to an artist, from whom he received but little recompense for his work. "I laboured," said
he, "for a mere pittance, but it was sufficient. It was the fruit of my own resolution; and,
as I then flattered myself, the foretaste of more honourable rewards,--for I never thought
of wealth." He pursued his studies,--in drawing and modelling; in languages, poetry, history,
antiquity, and the Greek and Roman classics. A long time elapsed before his talents were recognised,
and then he suddenly became famous.

Lough, the English sculptor, is another instance of self-denial and hard work. When a boy,
he was fond of drawing. At school, he made drawings of horses, dogs, cows, and men, for pins:
that was his first pay; and he used to go home with his jacket sleeve stuck full of them. He
and his brothers next made figures in clay. Pope's Homer lay on his father's window. The boys
were so delighted with it, that they made thousands of models--one taking the Greeks, and the
other the Trojans. An odd volume of Gibbon gave an account of the Coliseum. After the family
were in bed, the brothers made a model of the Coliseum, and filled it with fighting gladiators.
As the boys grew up, they were sent to their usual outdoor work, following the plough and doing
the usual agricultural labour; but still adhering to their modelling at leisure hours. At Christmas-time,
Lough was very much in demand. Everybody wanted him to make models in pastry for Christmas
pies,--the neighbouring farmers especially, "It was capital practice," he afterwards said.

At length Lough went from Newcastle to London, to push his way in the world of art. He obtained
a passage in a collier, the skipper of which he knew. When he reached London, he slept on board
the collier as long as it remained in the Thames. He was so great a favourite with the men,
that they all urged him to go back. He had no friends, no patronage, no money; What could he
do with everything against him? But, having already gone so far, he determined to proceed.
He would not go back--at least, not yet. The men all wept when he took farewell of them. He
was alone in London; under the shadow of St. Paul's.

His next step was to take a lodging in an obscure first floor in Burleigh Street, over a greengrocer's
shop; and there he began to model his grand statue of Milo. He had to take the roof off to
let Milo's head out. There Haydon found him, and was delighted with his genius. "I went," he
says, "to young Lough, the sculptor, who has just burst out, and has produced a great effect.
His Milo is really the most extraordinary thing, considering all the circumstances, in modern
sculpture. It is another proof of the efficacy of inherent genius." [1] That Lough must have
been poor enough at this time, is evident from the fact that, during the execution of his Milo,
he did not eat meat for three months; and when Peter Coxe found him out, he was tearing up
his shirt to make wet rags for his figure, to keep the clay moist. He had a bushel and a half
of coals during the whole winter; and he used to lie down by the side of his clay model of
the immortal figure, damp as it was, and shiver for hours till he fell asleep.

[Footnote 1: Haydon's Autobiography, vol. ii., p, 155.]

Chantrey once said to Haydon, "When I have made money enough, I will devote myself to high
art." But busts engrossed Chantrey's time. He was munificently paid for them, and never raised
himself above the money-making part of his profession. When Haydon next saw Chantrey at Brighton,
he said to him, "Here is a young man from the country, who has come to London; and he is doing
precisely what you have so long been dreaming of doing."

The exhibition of Milo was a great success. The Duke of Wellington went to see it, and ordered
a statue. Sir Matthew White Eidley was much struck by the genius of young Lough, and became
one of his greatest patrons. The sculptor determined to strike out a new path for himself.
He thought the Greeks had exhausted the Pantheistic, and that heathen gods had been overdone.
Lough began and pursued the study of lyric sculpture: he would illustrate the great English
poets. But there was the obvious difficulty of telling the story of a figure by a single attitude.
It was like a flash of thought. "The true artist," he said, "must plant his feet firmly on
the earth, and sweep the heavens with his pencil. I mean," he added, "that the soul must be
combined with the body, the ideal with the real, the heavens with the earth."

It is not necessary to describe the success of Mr. Lough as a sculptor. His statue of "The
Mourners" is known all over the world. He has illustrated Shakespeare and Milton. His Puck,
Titania, and other great works, are extensively known, and their genius universally admired.
But it may be mentioned that his noble statue of Milo was not cast in bronze until 1862, when
it was exhibited at the International Exhibition of that year.

The Earl of Derby, in recently distributing the prizes to the successful pupils of the Liverpool
College[1], made the following observations:--

"The vast majority of men, in all ages and countries, must work before they can eat. Even those
who are not under the necessity, are, in England, generally impelled by example, by custom,
perhaps by a sense of what is fitted for them, to adopt what is called an active pursuit of
some sort.... If there is one thing more certain than another, it is this--that every member
of a community is bound to do something for that community, in return for what he gets from
it; and neither intellectual cultivation, nor the possession of material wealth, nor any other
plea whatever, except that of physical or mental incapacity, can excuse any of us from that
plain and personal duty.... And though it may be, in a community like this, considered by some
to be a heterodox view, I will say that it often appears to me, in the present day, that we
are a little too apt in all classes to look upon ourselves as mere machines for what is called
'getting on,' and to forget that there are in every human being many faculties which cannot
be employed, and many wants which cannot be satisfied, by that occupation. I have not a word
to utter against strenuous devotion to business while you are at it. But one of the wisest
and most thoroughly cultivated men whom I ever knew, retired before the age of fifty, from
a profession in which he was making an enormous income, because, he said, he had got as much
as he or any one belonging to him could want, and he did not see why he should sacrifice the
rest of his life to money-getting. Some people thought him very foolish. I did not. And I believe
that the gentleman of whom I speak never once repented his decision."

[Footnote 1: A collection ought to be made and published of Lord Derby's admirable Addresses
to Young Men.]

The gentleman to whom Lord Derby referred was Mr. Nasmyth, the inventor of the steam hammer.
And as he has himself permitted the story of his life to be published, there is no necessity
for concealing his name. His life is besides calculated to furnish one of the best illustrations
of our subject. When a boy, he was of a bright, active, cheerful disposition. To a certain
extent he inherited his mechanical powers from his father, who, besides being an excellent
painter, was a thorough mechanic. It was in his workshop that the boy made his first acquaintance
with tools. He also had for his companion the son of an iron-founder, and he often went to
the founder's shop to watch the moulding, iron-melting, casting, forging, pattern-making, and
smith's work that was going on.

"I look back," Mr. Nasmyth says, "to the hours of Saturday afternoons spent in having the run
of the workshops of this small foundry as the true and only apprenticeship of my life. I did
not trust to reading about such things. I saw, handled, and helped when I could; and all the
ideas in connection with them became in all details, ever after, permanent in my mind,--to
say nothing of the no small acquaintance obtained at the same time of the nature of workmen."

In course of time, young Nasmyth, with the aid of his father's tools, could do little jobs
for himself. He made steels for tinder-boxes, which he sold to his schoolfellows. He made model
steam-engines, and sectional models, for use at popular lectures and in schools; and by selling
such models, he raised sufficient money to enable him to attend the lectures on Natural Philosophy
and Chemistry at the Edinburgh University. Among his works at that time, was a working model
of a steam carriage for use on common roads. It worked so well that he was induced to make
another on a larger scale. After having been successfully used, he sold the engine for the
purpose of driving a small factory.

Nasmyth was now twenty years old, and wished to turn his practical faculties to account. His
object was to find employment in one of the great engineering establishments of the day. The
first, in his opinion, was that of Henry Maudslay, of London. To attain his object, he made
a small steam-engine, every part of which was his own handiwork, including the casting and
forging. He proceeded to London; introduced himself to the great engineer; submitted his drawings;
showed his models; and was finally engaged as Mr. Maudslay's private workman.

Then came the question of wages. When Nasmyth finally left home to begin the world on his own
account, he determined not to cost his father another farthing. Being the youngest of eleven
children, he thought that he could maintain himself, without trenching farther upon the family
means. And he nobly fulfilled his determination. He felt that the wages sufficient to maintain
other workmen, would surely be sufficient to maintain him. He might have to exercise self-control
and self-denial; but of course he could do that. Though but a youth, he had wisdom enough and
self-respect enough to deny himself everything that was unnecessary, in order to preserve the
valuable situation which he had obtained.

Well, about the wages. When Mr. Maudslay referred his young workman to the chief cashier as
to his weekly wages, it was arranged that Nasmyth was to receive ten shillings a week. He knew
that, by strict economy, he could live within this amount. He contrived a small cooking apparatus,
of which we possess the drawings. It is not necessary to describe his method of cooking, nor
his method of living; it is sufficient to say that his little cooking apparatus (in which he
still takes great pride) enabled him fully to accomplish his purpose. He lived within his means,
and did not cost his father another farthing.

Next year his wages were increased to fifteen shillings. He then began to save money. He did
not put it in a bank, but used his savings for the purpose of making the tools with which he
afterwards commenced business. In the third year of his service, his wages were again increased,
on account, doubtless, of the value of his services. "I don't know," he has since said, "that
any future period of my life abounded in such high enjoyment of existence as the three years
I spent at Maudslay's. It was a glorious situation for one like myself,--so earnest as I was
in all that related to mechanism--in the study of men as well as of machinery. I wish many
a young man would do as I then did. I am sure they would find their reward in that feeling
of constant improvement, of daily advancement, and true independence, which will ever have
a charm for those who are earnest in their endeavours to make right progress in life and in
the regard of all good men."

After three years spent at Maudslay's, Mr. Nasmyth returned to Edinburgh to construct a small
stock of engineering tools suitable for starting him in business on his own account. He hired
a workshop and did various engineering jobs, in order to increase his little store of money
and to execute his little stock of tools. This occupied him for two years; and in 1834 he removed
the whole of his tools and machinery to Manchester. He began business there in a very humble
way, but it increased so rapidly that he was induced to remove to a choice piece of land on
the banks of the Bridgewater Canal at Patricroft, and there make a beginning--at first in wooden
sheds--of the now famous Bridgewater Foundry.

"There," says he, "I toiled right heartily until December 31st, 1856, when I retired to enjoy,
in active leisure, the result of many an anxious and interesting day. I had there, with the
blessing of God, devoted the best years of my life to the pursuit of a business of which I
was proud. And I trust that, without undue vanity, I may be allowed to say that I have left
my mark upon several useful inventions, which probably have had no small share in the mechanical
works of the age. There is scarcely a steamship or locomotive that is not indebted to my steam
hammer; and without it, Armstrong and Whitworth guns and iron-plated men-of-war could scarcely
have existed."

But though Nasmyth retired from business at the age of forty-eight, he did not seek repose
in idleness. He continues to be as busy as the busiest; but in an altogether different direction.
Instead of being tied to the earth, he enjoys himself amongst the stars. By means of telescopes
of his own making, he has investigated the sun, and discovered its "willow leaves;" he has
examined and photographed the moon, and in the monograph of it which he has published, he has
made us fully acquainted with its geography. He is also a thorough artist, and spends a considerable
portion of his time in painting,--though he is too modest to exhibit. The last time we visited
his beautiful home at Hammerfield, he was busy polishing glasses for one of his new telescopes,--the
motive power being a windmill erected on one of his outhouses.

Another word before we have done. "If," said Nasmyth, "I were to try to compress into one sentence
the whole of the experience I have had during an active and successful life, and offer it to
young men as a rule and certain receipt for success in any station, it would be composed in
these words--'Duty first! Pleasure second!' From what I have seen of young men and their after-progress,
I am satisfied that what is generally termed 'bad fortune,' 'ill luck,' and 'misfortune,' is
in nine cases out of ten, simply the result of inverting the above simple maxim. Such experience
as I have had, convinces me that absence of success arises in the great majority of cases from
want of self-denial and want of common sense. The worst of all maxims is 'Pleasure first! Work
and Duty second!"

CHAPTER VI.

METHODS OF ECONOMY.

"It was with profound wisdom that the Romans called by the same name courage and virtue. There
is in fact no virtue, properly so called, without victory over ourselves; and what cost us
nothing, is worth nothing."--De Maistre.

"Almost all the advantages which man possesses above the inferior animals, arise from his power
of acting in combination with his fellows; and of accomplishing by the united efforts of numbers
what could not be accomplished by the detached efforts of indivduals."--J.S. Mill.

"For the future, our main security will be in the wider diffusion of Property, and in all such
measures as will facilitate this result. With the possession of property will come Conservative
instincts, and disinclination for rash and reckless schemes.... We trust much, therefore, to
the rural population becoming Proprietors, and to the urban population becoming Capitalists."--W.R.
Greg.

The methods of practising economy are very simple. Spend less than you earn. That is the first
rule. A portion should always be set apart for the future. The person who spends more than
he earns, is a fool. The civil law regards the spendthrift as akin to the lunatic, and frequently
takes from him the management of his own affairs.

The next rule is to pay ready money, and never, on any account, to run into debt. The person
who runs into debt is apt to get cheated; and if he runs into debt to any extent, he will himself
be apt to get dishonest. "Who pays what he owes, enriches himself."

The next is, never to anticipate uncertain profits by expending them before they are secured.
The profits may never come, and in that case you will have taken upon yourself a load of debt
which you may never get rid of. It will sit upon your shoulders like the old man in Sinbad.

Another method of economy is, to keep a regular account of all that you earn, and of all that
you expend. An orderly man will know beforehand what he requires, and will be provided with
the necessary means for obtaining it. Thus his domestic budget will be balanced; and his expenditure
kept within his income.

John Wesley regularly adopted this course. Although he possessed a small income, he always
kept his eyes upon the state of his affairs. A year before his death, he wrote with a trembling
hand, in his Journal of Expenses; "For more than eighty-six years I have kept my accounts exactly.
I do not care to continue to do so any longer, having the conviction that I economize all that
I obtain, and give all that I can,--that is to say, all that I have."[1]

[Footnote 1: Southey's Life of Wesley, vol. ii., p. 560.]

Besides these methods of economy, the eye of the master or the mistress is always necessary
to see that nothing is lost, that everything is put to its proper use and kept in its proper
place, and that all things are done decently and in order. It does no dishonour to even the
highest individuals to take a personal interest in their own affairs. And with persons of moderate
means, the necessity for the eye of the master overlooking everything, is absolutely necessary
for the proper conduct of business.

It is difficult to fix the precise limits of economy. Bacon says that if a man would live well
within his income, he ought not to expend more than one-half, and save the rest. This is perhaps
too exacting; and Bacon himself did not follow his own advice. What proportion of one's income
should be expended on rent? That depends upon circumstances. In the country about one-tenth;
in London about one-sixth. It is at all events better to save too much, than spend too much.
One may remedy the first defect, but not so easily the latter. Wherever there is a large family,
the more money that is put to one side and saved, the better.

Economy is necessary to the moderately rich, as well as to the comparatively poor man. Without
economy, a man cannot be generous. He cannot take part in the charitable work of the world.
If he spends all that he earns, he can help nobody. He cannot properly educate his children,
nor put them in the way of starting fairly in the business of life. Even the example of Bacon
shows that the loftiest intelligence cannot neglect thrift without peril. But thousands of
witnesses daily testify, that men even of the most moderate intelligence, can practise the
virtue with success.

Although Englishmen are a diligent, hard-working, and generally self-reliant race, trusting
to themselves and their own efforts for their sustenance and advancement in the world, they
are yet liable to overlook and neglect some of the best practical methods of improving their
position, and securing their social well-being. They are not yet sufficiently educated to be
temperate, provident, and foreseeing. They live for the present, and are too regardless of
the coming time. Men who are husbands and parents, generally think they do their duty if they
provide for the hour that is, neglectful of the hour that is to come. Though industrious, they
are improvident; though money-making, they are spendthrift. They do not exercise forethought
enough, and are defective in the virtue of prudent economy.

Men of all classes are, as yet, too little influenced by these considerations. They are apt
to live beyond their incomes,--at all events, to live up to them, The upper classes live too
much for display; they must keep up their "position in society;" they must have fine houses,
horses, and carriages; give good dinners, and drink rich wines, their ladies must wear costly
and gay dresses. Thus the march of improvidence goes on over broken hearts, ruined hopes, and
wasted ambitions.

The vice descends in society,--the middle classes strive to ape the patrician orders; they
flourish crests, liveries, and hammercloths; their daughters must learn "accomplishments"--see
"society"--ride and drive--frequent operas and theatres. Display is the rage, ambition rivalling
ambition; and thus the vicious folly rolls on like a tide. The vice again descends. The working
classes, too, live up to their means--much smaller means, it is true; but even when they are
able, they are not sufficiently careful to provide against the evil day; and then only the
poorhouse offers its scanty aid to protect them against want.

To save money for avaricious purposes is altogether different from saving it for economical
purposes. The saving may be accomplished in the same manner--by wasting nothing, and saving
everything. But here the comparison ends. The miser's only pleasure is in saving. The prudent
economist spends what he can afford for comfort and enjoyment, and saves a surplus for some
future time. The avaricious person makes gold his idol: it is his molten calf, before which
he constantly bows down; whereas the thrifty person regards it as a useful instrument, and
as a means of promoting his own happiness and the happiness of those who are dependent upon
him. The miser is never satisfied. He amasses wealth that he can never consume, but leaves
it to be squandered by others, probably by spendthrifts; whereas the economist aims at securing
a fair share of the world's wealth and comfort, without any thought of amassing a fortune.

It is the duty of all persons to economize their means,--of the young as well as of the old.
The Duke of Sully mentions, in his Memoirs, that nothing contributed more to his fortune than
the prudent economy which he practised, even in his youth, of always preserving some ready
money in hand for the purpose of meeting circumstances of emergency. Is a man married? Then
the duty of economy is still more binding. His wife and children plead to him most eloquently.
Are they, in the event of his early death, to be left to buffet with the world unaided? The
hand of charity is cold, the gifts of charity are valueless, compared with the gains of industry,
and the honest savings of frugal labour, which carry with them blessings and comforts, without
inflicting any wound upon the feelings of the helpless and bereaved. Let every man, therefore,
who can, endeavour to economize and to save; not to hoard, but to nurse his little savings,
for the sake of promoting the welfare and happiness of himself while here, and of others when
he has departed.

There is a dignity in the very effort to save with a worthy purpose, even though the attempt
should not be crowned with eventual success. It produces a well-regulated mind; it gives prudence
a triumph over extravagance; it gives virtue the mastery over vice; it puts the passions under
control; it drives away care; it secures comfort. Saved money, however little, will serve to
dry up many a tear--will ward off many sorrows and heartburnings, which otherwise might prey
upon us. Possessed of a little store of capital, a man walks with a lighter step--his heart
beats more cheerily. When interruption of work or adversity happens, he can meet them; he can
recline on his capital, which will either break his fall, or prevent it altogether. By prudential
economy, we can realize the dignity of man; life will be a blessing, and old age an honour.
We can ultimately, under a kind Providence, surrender life, conscious that we have been no
burden upon society, but rather, perhaps, an acquisition and ornament to it; conscious, also,
that as we have been independent, our children after us, by following our example, and availing
themselves of the means we have left behind us, will walk in like manner through the world
in happiness and independence.

Every man's first duty is, to improve, to educate, and elevate himself--helping forward his
brethren at the same time by all reasonable methods. Each has within himself the capability
of free will and free action to a large extent; and the fact is proved by the multitude of
men who have successfully battled with and overcome the adverse circumstances of life in which
they have been placed; and who have risen from the lowest depths of poverty and social debasement,
as if to prove what energetic man, resolute of purpose, can do for his own elevation, progress,
and advancement in the world. Is it not a fact that the greatness of humanity, the glory of
communities, the power of nations, are the result of trials and difficulties encountered and
overcome?

Let a man resolve and determine that he will advance, and the first step of advancement is
already made. The first step is half the battle. In the very fact of advancing himself, he
is in the most effectual possible way advancing others. He is giving them the most eloquent
of all lessons--that of example; which teaches far more emphatically than words can teach.
He is doing, what others are by imitation incited to do. Beginning with himself, he is in the
most emphatic manner teaching the duty of self-reform and of self-improvement; and if the majority
of men acted as he did, how much wiser, how much happier, how much more prosperous as a whole,
would society become. For, society being made up of units, will be happy and prosperous, or
the reverse, exactly in the same degree as the respective individuals who compose it.

Complaints about the inequality of conditions are as old as the world. In the "Economy" of
Xenophon, Socrates asks, "How is it that some men live in abundance, and have something to
spare, whilst others can scarcely obtain the necessaries of life, and at the same time run
into debt?" "The reason is," replied Isomachus, "because the former occupy themselves with
their business, whilst the latter neglect it."

The difference between men consists for the most part in intelligence, conduct, and energy.
The best character never works by chance, but is under the influence of virtue, prudence, and
forethought.

There are, of course, many failures in the world. The man who looks to others for help, instead
of relying on himself, will fail. The man who is undergoing the process of perpetual waste,
will fail. The miser, the scrub, the extravagant, the thriftless, will necessarily fail. Indeed,
most people fail because they do not deserve to succeed. They set about their work in the wrong
way, and no amount of experience seems to improve them. There is not so much in luck as some
people profess to believe. Luck is only another word for good management in practical affairs.
Richelieu used to say that he would not continue to employ an unlucky man,--in other words,
a man wanting in practical qualities, and unable to profit by experience; for failures in the
past are very often the auguries of failures in the future.

Some of the best and ablest of men are wanting in tact. They will neither make allowance for
circumstances, nor adapt themselves to circumstances: they will insist on trying to drive their
wedge the broad end foremost. They raise walls only to run their own heads against. They make
such great preparations, and use such great precautions, that they defeat their own object,--like
the Dutchman mentioned by Washington Irving, who, having to leap a ditch, went so far back
to have a good run at it, that when he came up he was completely winded, and had to sit down
on the wrong side to recover his breath.

In actual life, we want things done, not preparations for doing them; and we naturally prefer
the man who has definite aims and purposes, and proceeds in the straightest and shortest way
to accomplish his object, to the one who describes the thing to be done, and spins fine phrases
about doing it. Without action, words are mere maundering.

The desire for success in the world, and even for the accumulation of money, is not without
its uses. It has doubtless been implanted in the human heart for good rather than for evil
purposes. Indeed the desire to accumulate, forms one of the most powerful instruments for the
regeneration of society. It provides the basis for individual energy and activity. It is the
beginning of maritime and commercial enterprise. It is the foundation of industry, as well
as of independence. It impels men to labour, to invent, and to excel.

No idle nor thriftless man ever became great. It is amongst those who never lost a moment,
that we find the men who have moved and advanced the world,--by their learning, their science,
or their inventions. Labour of some sort is one of the conditions of existence. The thought
has come down to us from pagan times, that "Labour is the price which the gods have set upon
all that is excellent." The thought is also worthy of Christian times.

Everything depends, as we shall afterwards find, upon the uses to which accumulations of wealth
are applied. On the tombstone of John Donough, of New Orleans, the following maxims are engraved
as the merchant's guide to young men on their way through life:--

"Remember always that labour is one of the conditions of our existence.

"Time is gold; throw not one minute away, but place each one to account.

"Do unto all men as you would be done by.

"Never put off till to-morrow what can be done to-day.

"Never bid another do what you can do yourself.

"Never covet what is not your own.

"Never think any matter so trifling as not to deserve notice.

"Never give out what does not come in.

"Do not spend, but produce.

"Let the greatest order regulate the actions of your life.

"Study in your course of life to do the greatest amount of good.

"Deprive yourself of nothing that is necessary to your comfort, but live in honourable simplicity
and frugality.

"Labour then to the last moment of your existence."

Most men have it in their power, by prudent arrangements, to defend themselves against adversity,
and to throw up a barrier against destitution. They can do this by their own individual efforts,
or by acting on the principle of co-operation, which is capable of an almost indefinite extension.
People of the most humble condition, by combining their means and associating together, are
enabled in many ways to defend themselves against the pressure of poverty, to promote their
physical well-being, and even to advance the progress of the nation.

A solitary individual may be able to do very little to advance and improve society; but when
he combines with his fellows for the purpose, he can do a very great deal. Civilization itself
is but the effect of combining.

The secret of social development is to be found in co-operation; and the great question of
improved economical and social life can only receive a satisfactory solution through its means.
To effect good on a large scale, men must combine their efforts; and the best social system
is that in which the organization for the common good is rendered the most complete in all
respects.

The middle classes have largely employed the principle of association. No class has risen so
rapidly, or done more by their energy and industry to advance the power and progress of England.
And why? Because the most active have always been the most ready to associate, to co-operate,
and to combine. They have combined when they were attacked, combined when they had an abuse
to destroy, or a great object to accomplish. They have associated together to manufacture articles
of commerce, to make canals, to construct railways, to form gas companies, to institute insurance
and banking companies, and to do an immense amount of industrial work. By combining their small
capitals together, they have been able to accumulate an enormous aggregate capital, and to
execute the most gigantic undertakings.

The middle classes have accomplished more by the principle of co-operation than the classes
who have so much greater need of it. All the joint stock companies are the result of association.
The railways, the telegraphs, the banks, the mines, the manufactories, have for the most part
been established and are carried on by means of the savings of the middle classes.

The working classes have only begun to employ the same principle. Yet how much might they accomplish
by its means! They might co-operate in saving as well as in producing. They might, by putting
their saved earnings together, become, by combination, their own masters. Within a few years
past, many millions sterling have been expended in strikes for wages. A hundred millions a
year are thrown away upon drink and other unnecessary articles. Here is an enormous capital.
Men who expend or waste such an amount can easily become capitalists. It requires only will,
energy, and self-denial. So much money spent on buildings, plant, and steam-engines, would
enable them to manufacture for themselves, instead of for the benefit of individual capitalists.
The steam-engine is impartial in its services. It is no respecter of persons; it will work
for the benefit of the labourer as well as for the benefit of the millionaire. It will work
for those who make the best use of it, and who have the greatest knowledge of its powers.

The greater number of workmen possess little capital save their labour; and, as we have already
seen, many of them uselessly and wastefully spend most of their earnings, instead of saving
them and becoming capitalists. By combining in large numbers for the purposes of economical
working, they might easily become capitalists, and operate upon a large scale. As society is
now constituted, every man is not only justified but bound in duty as a citizen, to accumulate
his earnings by all fair and honourable methods, with the view of securing a position of ultimate
competence and independence.

We do not say that men should save and hoard their gains for the mere sake of saving and hoarding;
this would be parsimony and avarice. But we do say that all men ought to aim at accumulating
a sufficiency--enough to maintain them in comfort during the helpless years that are to come--to
maintain them in times of sickness and of sorrow, and in old age, which, if it does come, ought
to find them with a little store of capital in hand, sufficient to secure them from dependence
upon the charity of others.

Workmen are for the most part disposed to associate; but the association is not always of a
healthy kind. It sometimes takes the form of Unions against masters; and displays itself in
the Strikes that are so common, and usually so unfortunate. Workmen also strike against men
of their own class, for the purpose of excluding them from their special calling. One of the
principal objects of trades-unions is to keep up wages at the expense of the lower paid and
unassociated working people. They endeavour to prevent poorer men learning their trade, and
thus keep the supply of labour below the demand.[1] This system may last for a time, but it
becomes ruinous in the end.

[Footnote 1: On the 31st January, 1875, a labourer in the employment of Messrs. Vickers, Sheffield,
who had not served an apprenticeship, was put on to turn one of the lathes. This being contrary
to the rules of the union, the men in the shop struck work. It is a usual course for men of
the union to "strike" in this manner against persons of their own condition, and to exercise
a force not resting in law or natural right, but merely on the will of a majority, and directly
subversive of the freedom of the individual.]

It is not the want of money that prevents skilled workmen from becoming capitalists, and opening
the door for the employment of labouring men who are poorer and less skilled than themselves.
The work-people threw away half a million sterling during the Preston strike, after which they
went back to work at the old terms. The London building trades threw away over three hundred
thousand pounds during their strike; and even had they obtained the terms for which they struck,
it would have taken six years to recoup them for their loss. The colliers in the Forest of
Dean went back to work at the old terms after eleven weeks' play, at the loss of fifty thousand
pounds. The iron-workers of Northumberland and Durham, after spending a third of the year in
idleness, and losing two hundred thousand pounds in wages, went back to work at a reduction
of ten per cent. The colliers and iron-workers of South Wales, during the recent strike or
lock-out, were idle for four months, and, according to Lord Aberdare, lost, in wages alone,
not less than three millions sterling!

Here, then, is abundance of money within the power of working-men,--money which they might
utilize, but do not. Think only of a solitary million, out of the three millions sterling which
they threw away during the coal strike, being devoted to the starting of collieries, or iron-mills,
or manufactories, to be worked by co-operative production for the benefit of the operatives
themselves. With frugal habits, says Mr. Greg, the well-conditioned workman might in ten years
easily have five hundred pounds in the bank; and, combining his savings with twenty other men
similarly disposed, they might have ten thousand pounds for the purpose of starting any manufacture
in which they are adepts.[1]

[Footnote 1: "The annual expenditure of the working classes alone, on drink and tobacco, is
not less than £60,000,000. Every year, therefore, the working classes have it in their power
to become capitalists (simply by saving wasteful and pernicious expenditure) to an extent which
would enable them to start at least 500 cotton mills, or coal mines, or iron works, on their
own account, or to purchase at least 500,000 acres, and so set up 50,000 families each with
a nice little estate of their own of ten acres, on fee simple. No one can dispute the facts.
No one can deny the inference."--Quarterly Review, No. 263.]

That this is not an impracticable scheme, is capable of being easily proved. The practice of
co-operation has long been adopted by workpeople throughout England. A large proportion of
the fishery industry has been conducted on that principle for hundreds of years. Fishermen
join in building, rigging, and manning a boat; the proceeds of the fish they catch at sea is
divided amongst them--so much to the boat, so much to the fishermen. The company of oyster-dredgers
of Whitstable "has existed time out of mind,"[2] though it was only in 1793 that they were
incorporated by Act of Parliament. The tin-miners of Cornwall have also acted on the same principle.
They have mined, washed, and sold the tin, dividing the proceeds among themselves in certain
proportions,--most probably from the time that the Phoenicians carried away the produce to
their ports in the Mediterranean.

[Footnote 2: Reports on the Paris Universal Exhibition, 1867, vol. vi., p. 252.]

In our own time, co-operation has been practised to a considerable extent. In 1795, the Hull
Anti-Mill Industrial Society was founded. The reasons for its association are explained in
the petition addressed to the Mayor and Aldermen of Hull by the first members of the society.
The petition begins thus: "We, the poor inhabitants of the said town, have lately experienced
much trouble and sorrow in ourselves and families, on the occasion of the exorbitant price
of flour; and though the price is much reduced at present, yet we judge it needful to take
every precaution to preserve ourselves from the invasions of covetous and merciless men in
future." They accordingly entered into a subscription to build a mill, in order to supply themselves
with flour. The corporation granted their petition, and supported them by liberal donations.
The mill was built, and exists to this day. It now consists of more than four thousand members,
each holding a share of twenty-five shillings. The members belong principally to the labouring
classes. The millers endeavoured by action at law to put down the society, but the attempt
was successfully resisted. The society manufactures flour, and sells it to the members at market
price, dividing the profits annually amongst the shareholders, according to the quantity consumed
in each member's family. The society has proved eminently remunerative.

Many years passed before the example of the "poor inhabitants" of Hull was followed. It was
only in 1847 that the co-operators of Leeds purchased a flour-mill, and in 1850 that those
of Rochdale did the same; since which time they have manufactured flour for the benefit of
their members. The corn-millers of Leeds attempted to undersell the Leeds Industrial Society.
They soon failed, and the price of flour was permanently reduced. The Leeds mill does business
amounting to more than a hundred thousand pounds yearly; its capital amounts to twenty-two
thousand pounds; and it paid more than eight thousand pounds of profits and bonuses to its
three thousand six hundred members in 1866, besides supplying them with flour of the best quality.
The Rochdale District Co-operative Corn-mill Society has also been eminently successful. It
supplies flour to consumers residing within a radius of about fifteen miles round Rochdale[1].
It also supplies flour to sixty-two co-operative societies, numbering over twelve thousand
members. Its business in 1866 amounted to two hundred and twenty-four thousand pounds, and
its profits to over eighteen thousand pounds.

[Footnote 1: Its history is given in the Reports above referred to, p. 269.]

The Rochdale Corn-mill grew out of the Rochdale Equitable Pioneers Society, which formed an
epoch in the history of industrial co-operative institutions. The Equitable Pioneers Society
was established in the year 1844, at a time when trade was in a very bad condition, and working
people generally were heartless and hopeless as to their future state. Some twenty-eight or
thirty men, mostly flannel weavers, met and formed themselves into a society for the purpose
of economizing their hard-won earnings. It is pretty well known that working-men generally
pay at least ten per cent. more for the articles they consume, than they need to do under a
sounder system. Professor Fawcett estimates their loss at nearer twenty per cent. than ten
per cent. At all events, these working-men wished to save this amount of profit, which before
went into the pockets of the distributers of the necessaries,--in other words, into the pockets
of the shopkeepers.

The weekly subscription was twopence each; and when about fifty-two calls of twopence each
had been made, they found that they were able to buy a sack of oatmeal, which they distributed
at cost-price amongst the members of the society. The number of members grew, and the subscriptions
so increased, that the society was enabled to buy tea, sugar, and other articles, and distribute
them amongst the members at cost-price. They superseded the shopkeepers, and became their own
tradesmen. They insisted from the first on payments in cash. No credit was given.

The society grew. It established a store for the sale of food, firing, clothes, and other necessaries.
In a few years the members set on foot the Co-operative Corn-mill. They increased the capital
by the issue of one-pound shares, and began to make and sell clothes and shoes. They also sold
drapery. But the principal trade consisted in the purchase and sale of provisions--butchers'
meat, groceries, flour, and such-like. Notwithstanding the great distress during the period
of the cotton famine, the society continued to prosper. From the first, it set apart a portion
of its funds for educational purposes, and established a news-room, and a library, which now
contains over six thousand volumes.

The society continued to increase until it possessed eleven branches for the sale of goods
and stores in or near Rochdale, besides the original office in Toad Lane. At the end of 1866,
it had 6,246 members, and a capital of £99,908. Its income for goods sold and cash received
during the year was £249,122; and the gross profit £31,931.

But this was not all. Two and a half per cent. was appropriated from the net profits to support
the news-rooms and library; and there are now eleven news and reading rooms at different places
in or near the town where the society carries on its business; the sum devoted to this object
amounting to over seven hundred pounds per annum. The members play at chess and draughts, and
use the stereoscopic views, microscopes, and telescopes placed in the libraries. No special
arrangements have been made to promote temperance; but the news-rooms and library exercise
a powerful and beneficial influence in promoting sobriety. It has been said that the society
has done more to remove drunkenness from Rochdale than all that the advocates of temperance
have been able to effect.

The example of the Rochdale Pioneers has exercised a powerful influence on working-men throughout
the northern counties of England. There is scarcely a town or village but has a co-operative
institution of one kind or another. These societies have promoted habits of saving, of thrift,
and of temperance. They have given the people an interest in money matters, and enabled them
to lay out their earnings to the best advantage. They have also given the working people some
knowledge of business; for the whole of their concerns are managed by committees selected at
the general meetings of the members.

One of the most flourishing co-operative societies is that established at Over Darwen. The
society has erected a row of handsome buildings in the centre of the town. The shops for the
sale of provisions, groceries, clothing, and other necessaries, occupy the lower story. Over
the shops are the library, reading rooms, and class rooms, which are open to the members and
their families. The third story consists of a large public hall, which is used for lectures,
concerts, and dances. There are six branches of the society established in different parts
of the town. A large amount of business is done, and the profits are very considerable. These
are divided amongst the members, in proportion to the purchases made by them. The profits are
for the most part re-invested in joint-stock paper-mills, cotton-mills, and collieries, in
the neighbourhood of Darwen. One of the most praiseworthy features of the society is the provision
made for the free education of the members and their families. Two and a half per cent. of
the profits are appropriated for the purpose. While inspecting the institution a few months
ago, we were informed that the Science classes were so efficiently conducted, that one of the
pupils had just obtained a Government Scholarship of fifty pounds a year, for three years,
including free instruction at the School of Mines, Jermyn Street, London, with a free use of
the laboratories during that period. There are also two other co-operative institutions in
the same place; and we were informed that the working people of Darwen are, for the most part,
hard-working, sober, and thrifty.

The example has also spread into Scotland and the south of England. At Northampton, a co-operative
society exists for the purpose of buying and selling leather, and also for the manufacture
of boots and shoes. At Padiham and other places in Lancashire, co-operative cotton-mills have
been established. The Manchester and Salford Equitable Co-operative Society "combine the securities
and facilities of a bank with the profits of a trade." But the business by which they mostly
thrive, is by the purchase and sale of food, provisions, groceries, draperies, and other articles,
with the exception of intoxicating liquors.

The sole secret of their success consists in "ready money." They give no credit. Everything
is done for cash; the profit of the trade being divided amongst the members. Every business
man knows that cash payment is the soundest method of conducting business. The Rochdale Pioneers
having discovered the secret, have spread it amongst their class. In their "advice to members
of this and other societies," they say: "Look well after money matters. Buy your goods as much
as possible in the first markets; or if you have the produce of your industry to sell, contrive,
if possible, to sell it in the last. Never depart from the principle of buying and selling
for ready money. Beware of long reckonings." In short, the co-operative societies became tradesmen
on a large scale; and, besides the pureness of the food sold, their profit consisted in the
discount for cash payments, which was divided amongst the members.

Land and Building Societies constitute another form of co-operation. These are chiefly supported
by the minor middle-class men, but also to a considerable extent by the skilled and thrifty
working-class men. By their means portions of land are bought, and dwelling-houses are built.
By means of a building society, a person who desires to possess a house enters the society
as a member, and instead of paying his rent to the landlord, pays his subscriptions and interest
to a committee of his friends; and in course of time, when his subscriptions are paid up, the
house is purchased, and conveyed to him by the society. The building-society is thus a savings
bank, where money accumulates for a certain purpose. But even those who do not purchase a house,
receive a dividend and bonus on their shares, which sometimes amounts to a considerable sum.

The accumulation of property has the effect which it always has upon thrifty men; it makes
them steady, sober, and diligent. It weans them from revolutionary notions, and makes them
conservative. When workmen, by their industry and frugality, have secured their own independence,
they will cease to regard the sight of others' well-being as a wrong inflicted on themselves;
and it will no longer be possible to make political capital out of their imaginary woes.

It has been said that Freehold Land Societies, which were established for political objects,
had the effect of weaning men from political reform. They were first started in Birmingham,
for the purpose of enabling men to buy land, and divide it into forty-shilling freeholds, so
that the owners might become electors and vote against the corn-laws. The corn-laws have been
done away with; but the holders of freehold land still exist, though many of them have ceased
to be politicians. "Mr. Arthur Ryland informs me," said Mr. Holyoake, in a recent paper on
Building Societies, "that in Birmingham, numbers of persons under the influence of these societies
have forsaken patriotism for profits. And I know both co-operators and Chartists who were loud-mouthed
for social and political reform, who now care no more for it than a Whig government; and decline
to attend a public meeting on a fine night, while they would crawl like the serpent in Eden,
through a gutter in a storm, after a good security. They have tasted land, and the gravel has
got into their souls."

"Yet to many others," he adds, "these societies have taught a healthy frugality they never
else would have known; and enabled many an industrious son to take to his home his poor old
father--who expected and dreaded to die in the workhouse--and set him down to smoke his pipe
in the sunshine in the garden, of which the land and the house belonged to his child."[1]

[Footnote 1: Paper read at York Meeting of the National Society for Promoting Social Science,
26th Sept. 1864.]

The Leeds Permanent Building Society, which has furnished healthy tenements for about two hundred
families, sets forth the following recommendations of the influence which it has exercised
amongst the working classes of that town: "It is truly cheering to hear the members themselves,
at occasional meetings tell how, from small savings hitherto deemed too little for active application,
they began to invest in the society: then to build or buy; then to advance in life, and come
to competence, from extending their savings in this manner.... The provident habits and knowledge
thus induced are most beneficial to the members. And the result is, that the careless become
thoughtful, and, on saving, become orderly, respectable, propertied, and in every way better
citizens, neighbours, and more worthy and comfortable. The employment of money in this useful
direction encourages trade, advances prices and wages, comforts the working classes, and at
the same time provides the means of home enjoyments, without which such advances would be comparatively
useless, and certainly uncertain."[1]

[Footnote 1: Letter of Mr. John Holmes, in Reports of Paris Universal Exhibition, 1867 vol.
vi., p. 240.]

There are also exceptional towns and villages in Lancashire where large sums of money have
been saved by the operatives for buying or building comfortable cottage dwellings. Last year
Padiham saved about fifteen thousand pounds for this purpose, although its population is only
about 8,000. Burnley has also been very successful. The Building Society there has 6,600 investors,
who saved last year £160,000 or an average of twenty-four pounds for each investor. The members
consist principally of mill operatives, miners, mechanics, engineers, carpenters, stonemasons,
and labourers. They also include women, both married and unmarried. Our informant states that
"great numbers of the working classes have purchased houses in which to live. They have likewise
bought houses as a means of investment. The building society has assisted in hundreds of these
cases, by advancing money on mortgage,--such mortgages being repaid by easy instalments."

Building Societies are, on the whole, among the most excellent methods of illustrating the
advantages of Thrift. They induce men to save money for the purpose of buying their own homes;
in which, so long as they live, they possess the best of all securities.

CHAPTER VII.

ECONOMY IN LIFE ASSURANCE.

"Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose That you resolved to effect."--Shakespeare.

"We are helpers, fellow-creatures, Of the right against the wrong."--E. Barrett.

"Life was not given us to be all used up in the pursuit of what we must leave behind us when
we die."--Joseph May.

"Le bonheur ou le malheur de la vielillesse n'est souvent que l'extrait de notre vie passée."
(The blessedness or misery of old age is often but the extract of our past life.) De Maistre.

Two other methods of co-operative saving remain to be mentioned. The first is by Life Assurance,
which enables widows and children to be provided for at the death of the assured; and the second
is by Friendly Societies, which enable working men to provide themselves with relief in sickness,
and their widows and orphans with a small sum at their death. The first method is practised
by the middle and upper classes; and the second by the working classes.

It might possibly take a long time to save enough money to provide for those who are dependent
upon us; and there is always the temptation to encroach upon the funds set apart for death,
which--as most people suppose--may be a far-distant event. So that saving bit by bit, from
week to week, cannot always be relied upon.

The person who joins an assurance society is in a different position. His annual or quarterly
saving becomes at once a portion of a general fund, sufficient to realize the intention of
the assured. At the moment that he makes his first payment, his object is attained. Though
he die on the day after his premium has been paid, his widow and children will receive the
entire amount of his assurance.

This system, while it secures a provision to his survivors, at the same time incites a man
to the moral obligation of exorcising foresight and prudence, since through its means these
virtues may be practised, and their ultimate reward secured. Not the least of the advantages
attending life assurance is the serenity of mind which attends the provident man when lying
on a bed of sickness, or when he is in prospect of death,--so unlike that painful anxiety for
the future welfare of a family, which adds poignancy to bodily suffering, and retards or defeats
the power of medicine. The poet Burns, in writing to a friend a few days before his death,
said that he was "still the victim of affliction. Alas!

Life assurance may be described as a joint-stock plan for securing widows, and children from
want. It is an arrangement by means of which a large number of persons agree to lay by certain
small sums called "premiums," yearly, to accumulate at interest, as in a savings bank, against
the contingency of the assurer's death,--when the amount of the sum subscribed for is forthwith
handed over to his survivors. By this means, persons possessed of but little capital, though
enjoying regular wages or salaries, however small, may at once form a fund for the benefit
of their family at death.

We often hear of men who have been diligent and useful members of society, dying and leaving
their wives and families in absolute poverty. They have lived in respectable style, paid high
rents for their houses, dressed well, kept up good visiting acquaintance, were seen at most
places of amusement, and brought up their children with certain ideas of social position and
respectability; but death has stricken them down, and what is the situation of their families?
Has the father provided for their future? From twenty to twenty-five pounds a year, paid into
an Assurance Society, would have secured their widows and orphans against absolute want. Have
they performed this duty? No--they have done nothing of the kind; it turns out that the family
have been living up to their means, if not beyond them, and the issue is, that they are thrown
suddenly bankrupt upon the world.

Conduct such as this is not only thoughtless and improvident, but heartless and cruel in the
last degree. To bring a family into the world, give them refined tastes, and accustom them
to comforts, the loss of which is misery, and then to leave the family to the workhouse, the
prison, or the street--to the alms of relatives, or to the charity of the public,--is nothing
short of a crime done against society, as well as against the unfortunate individuals who are
the immediate sufferers.

It will be admitted, that the number of men who can lay by a sufficient store of capital for
the benefit of their families, is, in these times of intense competition, comparatively small.
Perhaps the claims of an increasing family absorb nearly all their gains, and they find that
the sum which they can put away in the bank is so small, that it is not put away at all. They
become reckless of ever attaining so apparently hopeless an object as that of an accumulation
of savings, for the benefit of their families at death.

Take the case of a married man with a family. He has begun business, and thinks that if his
life were spared, he might in course of years be able to lay by sufficient savings to provide
for his wife and family at his death. But life is most uncertain, and he knows that at any
moment he may be taken away,--leaving those he holds most dear comparatively destitute. At
thirty he determines to join a sound life office. He insures for five hundred pounds, payable
to his survivors at his death, and pays from twelve to thirteen pounds yearly. From the moment
on which he pays that amount, the five hundred pounds are secured for his family, although
he died the very next day.

Now, if he had deposited this twelve or thirteen pounds yearly in a bank, or employed it at
interest, it would have taken about twenty years before his savings would have amounted to
five hundred pounds. But by the simple and beautiful expedient of life assurance, these twenty-six
years of the best part of his life are, on this account at least, secured against anxiety and
care. The anticipation of future evil no longer robs him of present enjoyment. By means of
his annual fixed payment--which decreases according to the profits of the society--he is secure
of leaving a fixed sum at his death for the benefit of his family.

In this way, life assurance may be regarded in the light of a contract, by which the inequalities
of life are to a certain extent averaged and compensated, so that those who die soon--or rather
their families--become sharers in the good fortune of those who live beyond the average term
of life. And even should the assurer himself live beyond the period at which his savings would
have accumulated to more than the sum insured, he will not be disposed to repine, if he takes
into account his exemption from corroding solicitude during so many years of his life.

The reasons which induce a man to insure his house and stock of goods against the accident
of fire, ought to be still more imperative in inducing him to insure his life against the accident
of disease and the contingency of sudden death. What is worldly prudence in the one case, is
something more in the other; it has superadded to it the duty of providing for the future maintenance
of a possibly widowed wife, and orphaned children; and no man can justly stand excused who
neglects so great and binding an obligation. Is it an obligation on the part of a husband and
father to provide daily bread for his wife and children during his life? Then it is equally
an obligation on his part to provide means for their adequate support in event of his death.
The duty is so obvious, the means of performing it are so simple, and are now so easily placed
within the reach of all men,--the arrangement is so eminently practical, rational, benevolent,
and just,--it is, moreover, so calculated to increase every wise and prudent man's sense of
self-respect, and to encourage him in the performance of all proper social duties,--that we
cannot conceive of any possible objection that can be urged against it; and it is only to be
regretted that the practice is not far more general and customary than it is, amongst all classes
of the community.[1]

[Footnote 1: It may be mentioned that the total amount assured in existing British offices,
mostly by the middle classes, is about three hundred and fifty millions sterling; and that
the annual premiums payable amount to not less than eleven millions sterling. And yet no more
than one person in twenty of the persons belonging to the classes to whom Life Assurance is
especially applicable, have yet availed themselves of its benefits.]

The Friendly or Benefit Societies of the working classes are also Co-operative Societies under
another form. They cultivate the habit of prudent self-reliance amongst the people, and are
consequently worthy of every encouragement. It is certainly a striking fact that some four
millions of working men should have organized themselves into voluntary associations for the
purpose of mutual support in time of sickness and distress. These societies are the outgrowth
in a great measure of the English love of self-government and social independence,--in illustration
of which it maybe stated, that whereas in France only one person in seventy-six is found belonging
to a benefit society, and in Belgium one in sixty-four, the proportion in England is found
to be one in nine. The English societies are said to have in hand funds amounting to more than
eleven millions sterling; and they distribute relief amongst their members, provided by voluntary
contributions out of their weekly earnings, amounting to above two millions yearly.

Although the working classes of France and Belgium do not belong to benefit societies to anything
like the same extent, it must be stated, in their justification, that they are amongst the
most thrifty and prudent people in the world. They invest their savings principally in land
and in the public funds. The French and Belgians have a positive hunger for land. They save
everything that they can for the purpose of acquiring more. And with respect to their investments
in the public funds, it may be mentioned, as a well-known fact, that it was the French peasantry
who, by investing their savings in the National Defence Loan, liberated French soil from the
tread of their German conquerors.[1]

[Footnote 1: At the present time one individual out of every eight in the population of France
has a share in the National Debt, the average amount held being 170 francs. The participants
in the debt approach closely to the number of freeholders, or rather distinct freeholdings,
which amount to 5,550,000, according to the last return. France certainly furnishes a singular
exception to those countries of Central and Western Europe, where "the rich are getting more
rich and the poor ever more poor." In France wealth becomes more and more distributed among
the bulk of the population.]

English benefit societies, notwithstanding their great uses and benefits, have numerous defects.
There are faults in the details of their organization and management, whilst many of them are
financially unsound. Like other institutions in their early stages, they have been tentative
and in a great measure empirical,--more especially as regards their rates of contribution and
allowances for sick relief. The rates have in many cases been fixed too low, in proportion
to the benefits allowed; and hence the "box" is often declared to be closed, after the money
subscribed has been expended. The society then comes to an end, and the older members have
to go without relief for the rest of their lives. But life assurance societies themselves have
had to undergo the same discipline of failure, and the operation of "winding up" has not unfrequently
thrown discredit upon these middle-class associations.

To quote the words of the Registrar of Friendly Societies, in a recent report: "Though the
information thus far obtained is not very encouraging as to the general system of management;
on the whole, perhaps, the results of the investments of the poor are not worse than those
which noblemen, members of Parliament, merchants, professed financiers, and speculators have
contrived to attain in their management of railways, joint-stock banks, and enterprises of
all kinds."

The workmen's societies originated for the most part in a common want, felt by persons of small
means, unable to accumulate any considerable store of savings to provide against destitution
in the event of disablement by disease or accident. At the beginning of life, persons earning
their bread by daily labour are able to save money with difficulty. Unavoidable expenses absorb
their limited means and press heavily on their income. When unable to work, any little store
they may have accumulated is soon spent, and if they have a family to maintain, there is then
no choice before them but destitution, begging, or recourse to the poor-rates. In their desire
to avoid either of these alternatives, they have contrived the expedient of the benefit society.
By combining and putting a large number of small contributions together, they have found it
practicable thus to provide a fund sufficiently large to meet their ordinary requirements during
sickness.

The means by which this is accomplished are very simple. Each member contributes to a common
fund at the rate of from fourpence to sixpence a week, and out of this fund the stipulated
allowance is paid. Most benefit societies have also a Widows' and Orphans' Fund, raised in
like manner, out of which a sum is paid to the survivors of members at their death. It will
be obvious that such organizations, however faulty they may be in detail, cannot fail to exercise
a beneficial influence upon society at large. The fact that one of such associations, the Manchester
Unity of Odd Fellows, numbers about half a million of members; possesses a funded capital amounting
to £3,706,366; and distributes in sick relief and payments of sums at death above £300,000
a year, illustrates in a striking light their beneficial action upon the classes for whom and
by whom they have been established. By their means, working men are enabled to secure the results
of economy at a comparatively small cost. For, mutual assurance is economy in its most economical
form; and merely presents another illustration of that power of co-operation which is working
out such extraordinary results in all departments of society, and is in fact but another name
for Civilization.

Many persons object to Friendly Societies because they are conducted at public-houses; because
many of them are got up by the keepers of public-houses in order to obtain custom from the
members; and because, in their fortnightly meetings to pay their subscriptions, they acquire
the pernicious habit of drinking, and thus waste quite as much as they save. The Friendly Societies
doubtless rely very much on the social element. The public-house is everybody's house. The
members can there meet together, talk together, and drink together. It is extremely probable
that had they trusted solely to the sense of duty--the duty of insuring against sickness--and
merely required the members to pay their weekly contributions to a collector, very few societies
of the kind would have remained in existence. In a large number of cases, there is practically
no choice between the society that meets at a public-house, and none at all.

It so happens that the world cannot be conducted on superfine principles. To most men, and
especially to the men we are speaking of, it is a rough, working world, conducted on common
principles, such as will wear. To some it may seem vulgar to associate beer, tobacco, or feasting
with the pure and simple duty of effecting an insurance against disablement by sickness; but
the world we live in is vulgar, and we must take it as we find it, and try to make the best
of it. It must be admitted that the tendencies to pure good in man are very weak, and need
much helping. But the expedient, vulgar though it be, of attracting him through his appetite
for meat and drink to perform a duty to himself and neighbours, is by no means confined to
societies of working men. There is scarcely a London charity or institution but has its annual
dinner for the purpose of attracting subscribers. Are we to condemn the eighteenpenny annual
dinner of the poor man, but excuse the guinea one of the rich?

A vigorous effort was made by Mr. Akroyd of Halifax, in 1856, to establish a Provident Sick
Society and Penny Savings Bank for the working men in the West Riding of Yorkshire. An organization
was set on foot with these objects; and though the Penny Bank proved a complete success, the
Provident Society proved a complete failure. Mr. Akroyd thus explains the causes of the failure:
"We found the ground preoccupied," he says, "by Friendly Societies, especially by the Odd Fellows,
Druids, Foresters, etc.; and against their principles of self-government, mutual check against
fraud, and brotherhood, no new and independent society can compete. Our rates were also of
necessity much higher than theirs, and this was perhaps one of the chief causes of our failure."

Low rates of contribution have been the principal cause of the failure of Friendly Societies.[1]
It was of course natural that the members, being persons of limited means, should endeavour
to secure the objects of their organization at the lowest cost. They therefore fixed their
rates as low as possible; and, as the results proved, they in most cases fixed them too low.
So long as the societies consisted, for the most part, of young, healthy men, and the average
amount of sickness remained low, the payments made seemed ample. The funds accumulated, and
many flattered themselves that their societies were in a prosperous state, when they contained
the sure elements of decay. For, as the members grew older, their average liability to sickness
was regularly increasing. The effects of increased age upon the solvency of benefit clubs soon
becoming known, young men avoided the older societies, and preferred setting up organizations
of their own. The consequence was, that the old men began to draw upon their reserves at the
same time that the regular contributions fell off; and when, as was frequently the case, a
few constantly ailing members kept pressing upon the society, the funds were at length exhausted,
"the box" was declared to be closed, and the society was broken up. The real injustice was
done to the younger men who remained in the society. After paying their contributions for many
years, they found, when sickness at length fell upon them, that the funds had been exhausted,
by expenditure for superannuation and other allowances, which were not provided for by the
rules of the society.

[Footnote 1: The Registrar of Friendly Societies, in his report for 1859, states that from
1793 to 1858, the number of societies enrolled and certified had been 28,550, of which 6,850
had ceased to exist. The causes of failure in most cases were reported to be, inadequacy of
the rates of contribution, the granting of pensions as well as sick pay, and no increase of
young members. The dissolution of a society, however, is frequently effected with a view of
remodelling it, and starting afresh under better regulations, and with rates of premium such
as increased knowledge has shown to be necessary for the risks which they have to incur.]

Even the best of the Benefit Societies have been slow to learn the essential importance of
adequate rates of contribution, to enable them to fulfil their obligations and ensure their
continued usefulness as well as solvency. The defect of most of them consists in their trying
to do too much with too little means. The benefits paid out are too high for the rates of contribution
paid in. Those who come first are served, but those who come late too often find an empty box.
Not only have the rates of payment been generally fixed too low, but there has been little
or no discrimination in the selection of members. Men advanced in years and of fragile health
are often admitted on the same terms as the young and the healthy, the only difference being
in the rate of entry money. Even young lodges, which start with inadequate rates, instead of
growing stronger, gradually grow weaker; and in the event of a few constantly ailing members
falling upon the funds, they soon become exhausted, and the lodge becomes bankrupt and is broken
up. Such has been the history of thousands of Friendly Societies, doing good and serving a
useful purpose in their time, but short-lived, ephemeral, and to many of their members disappointing,
and even deceptive.

Attempts have been recently made--more especially by the officers of the Manchester Unity of
Odd Fellows--to improve the financial condition of their society. Perhaps the best proof of
the desire that exists on the part of the leading minds in the Unity to bring the organization
into a state of financial soundness, is to be found in the fact that the Board of Management
have authorized the publication of the best of all data for future guidance,--namely, the actual
sickness experience of the Order. An elaborate series of tables has accordingly been prepared
and published for their information by Mr. Ratcliffe, the corresponding secretary, at an expense
of about £3,500. In the preface to the last edition it is stated that "this sum has not been
abstracted from the funds set apart for relief during sickness, for assurances at death, or
for providing for necessitous widows and orphans, but from the management funds of the lodges--funds
which, being generally raised by direct levy on the members, are not therefore readily expended
without careful consideration on the part of those most interested in the character and welfare
of their cherished institution."

We believe that time and experience will enable the leaders of Friendly Societies generally
to improve them, and introduce new ameliorations. The best institutions are things of slow
growth, and are shaped by experience, which includes failures as well as successes; and finally,
they require age to strengthen them and root them in habit. The rudest society established
by working men for mutual help in sickness, independent of help from private charity or the
poor-rates, is grounded on a right spirit, and is deserving of every encouragement. It furnishes
a foundation on which to build up something better. It teaches self-reliance, and thus cultivates
amongst the humblest classes habits of provident economy.

Friendly Societies began their operations before there was any science of vital statistics
to guide them; and if they have made mistakes in mutual assurance, they have not stood alone.
Looking at the difficulties they have had to encounter, they are entitled to be judged charitably.
Good advice given them in a kindly spirit will not fail to produce good results. The defects
which are mixed up with them are to be regarded as but the transient integument which will
most probably fall away as the flower ripens and the fruit matures.

CHAPTER VIII.

SAVINGS BANKS.

"I wish I could write all across the sky, in letters of gold, the one word SAVINGS BANK."--Rev.
Win. Marsh.

"The only true secret of assisting the poor is to make them agents in bettering their own condition."--Archbishop
Sumner.

"Qui à vingt ne sait, à trente ne peut, à quarante n'a,--jamais ne saura, ne pourra, n'aura."--French
Proverb.

It is said that there is a skeleton in every household. The skeleton is locked up--put away
in a cupboard--- and rarely seen. Only the people inside the house know of its existence. But
the skeleton, nevertheless, cannot long be concealed. It comes to light in some way or another.
The most common skeleton is Poverty. Poverty, says Douglas Jerrold, is the great secret, kept
at any pains by one-half the world from the other half. When there is nothing laid by--nothing
saved to relieve sickness when it comes--nothing to alleviate the wants of old age,--this is
the skeleton hid away in many a cupboard.

In a country such as this, where business is often brought to a standstill by over-trading
and over-speculation, many masters, clerks, and workpeople are thrown out of employment. They
must wait until better times come round. But in the meantime, how are they to live? If they
have accumulated no savings, and have nothing laid by, they are comparatively destitute.

Even the Co-operative Cotton-mills, or Co-operative Banks, which are nothing more than Joint-stock
Companies, Limited,[1] may become bankrupt. They may not be able, as was the case during the
cotton famine, to compete with large capitalists in the purchase of cotton, or in the production
of cotton twist. Co-operative companies established for the purpose of manufacturing, are probably
of too speculative a character to afford much lasting benefit to the working classes; and it
seems that by far the safer course for them to pursue, in times such as the present, is by
means of simple, direct saving. There may be less chance of gain, but there is less risk of
loss. What is laid by is not locked up and contingent for its productiveness upon times and
trade, but is steadily accumulating, and is always ready at hand for use when the pinch of
adversity occurs.

[Footnote 1: "The new cotton factories which have been called co-operative, and which, under
that name, have brought together large numbers of shareholders of the wage classes, are all
now in reality common joint-stock companies, with limited liability. The so-called co-operative
shareholders in the leading establishments decided, as I am informed, by large majorities,
that the workers should only be paid wages in the ordinary manner, and should not divide profits.
The wages being for piecework, it was held that the payment was in accordance with communistic
principle, 'each according to his capacity, each according to his work.' The common spinner
had had no share in the work of the general direction, nor had he evinced any of the capacity
of thrift or foresight of the capitalist, and why should he share profits as if he had? The
wage class, in their capacity of shareholders, decided that it was an unjust claim upon their
profits, and kept them undivided to themselves."--Edwin Chadwick, C.B.]

Mr. Bright stated in the House of Commons, in 1860,[2] that the income of the working classes
was "understated at three hundred and twelve millions a year." Looking at the increase of wages
which has taken place during the last fifteen years, their income must now amount to at least
four hundred millions.

[Footnote 2: Speech on the Representation of the People Bill.]

Surely, out of this large fund of earnings, the working classes might easily save from thirty
to forty millions yearly. At all events, they might save such an amount as, if properly used
and duly economized, could not fail to establish large numbers of them in circumstances of
comfort and even of comparative wealth.

The instances which we have already cited of persons in the humbler ranks of life having by
prudential forethought accumulated a considerable store of savings for the benefit of their
families, and as a stay for their old age, need not by any means be the comparatively exceptional
cases that they are now. What one well-regulated person is able to do, others, influenced by
similar self-reliant motives, and practising like sobriety and frugality, might with equal
ease and in one way or another accomplish. A man who has more money about him than he requires
for current purposes, is tempted to spend it. To use the common phrase, it is apt to "burn
a hole in his pocket." He may be easily entrapped into company; and where his home provides
but small comfort, the public-house, with its bright fire, is always ready to welcome him.

It often happens that workmen lose their employment in "bad times." Mercantile concerns become
bankrupt, clerks are paid off, and servants are dismissed when their masters can no longer
employ them. If the disemployed people have been in the habit of regularly consuming all their
salaries and wages, without laying anything by, their case is about the most pitiable that
can be imagined. But if they have saved something, at home or in the savings bank, they will
be enabled to break their fall. They will obtain some breathing-time, before they again fall
into employment. Suppose they have as much as ten pounds saved. It may seem a very little sum,
yet in distress it amounts to much. It may even prove a man's passport to future independence.

With ten pounds a workman might remove from one district to another where employment is more
abundant. With ten pounds, he might emigrate to Canada or the United States, where his labour
might be in request. Without this little store of savings, he might be rooted to his native
spot, like a limpet to the rock. If a married man with a family, his ten pounds would save
his home from wreckage, and his household from destitution. His ten pounds would keep the wolf
from the door until better times came round. Ten pounds would keep many a servant-girl from
ruin, give her time to recruit her health, perhaps wasted by hard work, and enable her to look
about for a suitable place, instead of rushing into the first that offered.

We do not value money for its own sake, and we should be the last to encourage a miserly desire
to hoard amongst any class; but we cannot help recognizing in money the means of life, the
means of comfort, the means of maintaining an honest independence. We would therefore recommend
every young man and every young woman to begin life by learning to save; to lay up for the
future a certain portion of every week's earnings, be it little or much; to avoid consuming
every week or every year the earnings of that week or year; and we counsel them to do this,
as they would avoid the horrors of dependence, destitution, or beggary. We would have men and
women of every class able to help themselves--relying upon their own resources--upon their
own savings; for it is a true saying that "a penny in the purse is better than a friend at
court." The first penny saved is a step in the world. The fact of its being saved and laid
by, indicates self-denial, forethought, prudence, wisdom. It may be the germ of future happiness.
It may be the beginning of independence.

Cobbett was accustomed to scoff at the "bubble" of Savings Banks, alleging that it was an insult
to people to tell them that they had anything to save. Yet the extent to which savings banks
have been used, even by the humblest classes, proves that he was as much mistaken in this as
he was in many of the views which he maintained. There are thousands of persons who would probably
never have thought of laying by a penny, but for the facility of the savings bank: it would
have seemed so useless to try. The small hoard in the cupboard was too ready at hand, and would
have become dissipated before it accumulated to any amount; but no sooner was a place of deposit
provided, where sums as small as a shilling could be put away, than people hastened to take
advantage of it.

The first savings bank was started by Miss Priscilla Wakefield, in the parish of Tottenham,
Middlesex, towards the close of last century,--her object being mainly to stimulate the frugality
of poor children. The experiment proved so successful that in 1799 the Rev. Joseph Smith, of
Wendon, commenced a plan of receiving small sums from his parishioners during summer, and returning
them at Christmas, with the addition of one-third as a stimulus to prudence and forethought.
Miss Wakefield, in her turn, followed Mr. Smith's example, and in 1804 extended the plan of
her charitable bank, so as to include adult labourers, female servants, and others. A similar
institution was formed at Bath, in 1808, by several ladies of that city; and about the same
time Mr. Whitbread proposed to Parliament the formation of a national institution, "in the
nature of a bank, for the use and advantage of the labouring classes alone;" but nothing came
of his proposal.

It was not until the Rev. Henry Duncan, the minister of Ruthwell, a poor parish in Dumfriesshire,
took up the subject, that the savings-bank system may be said to have become fairly inaugurated.
The inhabitants of that parish were mostly poor cottagers, whose average wages did not amount
to more than eight shillings a week. There were no manufactures in the district, nor any means
of subsistence for the population, except what was derived from the land under cultivation;
and the landowners were for the most part non-resident. It seemed a very unlikely place in
which to establish a bank for savings, where the poor people were already obliged to strain
every nerve to earn a bare living, to provide the means of educating their children (for, however
small his income, the Scottish peasant almost invariably contrives to save something wherewith
to send his children to school), and to pay their little contributions to the friendly society
of the parish. Nevertheless, the minister resolved, as a help to his spiritual instructions,
to try the experiment.

Not many labouring men may apprehend the deep arguments of the religious teacher, but the least
intelligent can appreciate a bit of practical advice that tells on the well-being of his household
as well as on the labourer's own daily comfort and self-respect. Dr. Duncan knew that, even
in the poorest family, there were odds and ends of income apt to be frittered away in unnecessary
expenditure. He saw some thrifty cottagers using the expedient of a cow, or a pig, or a bit
of garden-ground, as a savings bank,--finding their return of interest in the shape of butter
and milk, winter's bacon, or garden produce; and it occurred to him that there were other villagers,
single men and young women, for whom some analogous mode of storing away their summer's savings
might be provided, and a fair rate of interest returned upon their little investments.

Hence originated the parish savings bank of Ruthwell, the first self-supporting institution
of the kind established in this country. That the minister was not wrong in his anticipations,
was proved by the fact that, in the course of four years, the funds of his savings bank amounted
to nearly a thousand pounds. And if poor villagers out of eight shillings a week, and female
labourers and servants out of much less, could lay aside this sum,--what might not mechanics,
artizans, miners, and iron-workers accomplish, who earn from thirty to fifty shillings a week
all the year round?

The example set by Dr. Duncan was followed in many towns and districts in England and Scotland.
In every instance the model of the Ruthwell parish bank was followed; and the self-sustaining
principle was adopted. The savings banks thus instituted, were not eleemosynary institutions,
nor dependent upon anybody's charity or patronage; but their success rested entirely with the
depositors themselves. They encouraged the industrious classes to rely upon their own resources,
to exercise forethought and economy in the conduct of life, to cherish self-respect and self-dependence,
and to provide for their comfort and maintenance in old age, by the careful use of the products
of their industry, instead of having to rely for aid upon the thankless dole of a begrudged
poor-rate.

The establishment of savings banks with these objects, at length began to be recognized as
a matter of national concern; and in 1817 an Act was passed which served to increase their
number and extend their usefulness. Various measures have since been adopted with the object
of increasing their efficiency and security. But notwithstanding the great good which these
institutions have accomplished, it is still obvious that the better-paid classes of workpeople
avail themselves of them to only a very limited extent. A very small portion of the four hundred
millions estimated to be annually earned by the working classes finds its way to the savings
bank, while at least twenty times the amount is spent annually at the beershop and the public-house.

It is not the highly-paid class of working men and women who invest money in the savings banks;
but those who earn comparatively moderate incomes. Thus the most numerous class of depositors
in the Manchester and Salford Savings Bank is that of domestic servants. After them rank clerks,
shopmen, porters, and miners. Only about a third part of the deposits belong to the operatives,
artizans, and mechanics. It is the same in manufacturing districts generally. A few years since,
it was found that of the numerous female depositors at Dundee, only one was a factory worker:
the rest were for the most part servants.

There is another fact that is remarkable. The habit of saving does not so much prevail in those
counties where wages are the highest, as in those counties where wages are the lowest. Previous
to the era of Post Office Savings Banks, the inhabitants of Wilts and Dorset--where wages are
about the lowest in England--deposited more money in the savings banks, per head of the population,
than they did in Lancashire and Yorkshire, where wages are about the highest in England. Taking
Yorkshire itself, and dividing it into manufacturing and agricultural,--the manufacturing inhabitants
of the West Riding of York invested about twenty-five shillings per head of the population
in the savings banks; whilst the agricultural population of the East Riding invested about
three times that amount.

Private soldiers are paid much less wages per week than the lowest-paid workmen, and yet they
put more money in the savings banks than workmen who are paid from thirty to forty shillings
a week. Soldiers are generally supposed to be a particularly thoughtless class. Indeed, they
are sometimes held up to odium as reckless and dissolute; but the Military Savings Bank Returns
refute the vilification, and prove that the British soldier is as sober, well-disciplined,
and frugal, as we already know him to be brave. Most people forget that the soldier must be
obedient, sober, and honest. If he is a drunkard, he is punished; if he is dishonest, he is
drummed out of the regiment.

Wonderful is the magic of Drill! Drill means discipline, training, education. The first drill
of every people is military. It has been the first education of nations. The duty of obedience
is thus taught on a large scale,--submission to authority; united action under a common head.
These soldiers,--who are ready to march steadily against vollied fire, against belching cannon,
up fortress heights, or to beat their heads against bristling bayonets, as they did at Badajos,--were
once tailors, shoemakers, mechanics, delvers, weavers, and ploughmen; with mouths gaping, shoulders
stooping, feet straggling, arms and hands like great fins hanging by their sides; but now their
gait is firm and martial, their figures are erect, and they march along, to the sound of music,
with a tread that makes the earth shake. Such is the wonderful power of drill.

Nations, as they become civilized, adopt other methods of discipline. The drill becomes industrial.
Conquest and destruction give place to production in many forms. And what trophies Industry
has won, what skill has it exercised, what labours has it performed! Every industrial process
is performed by drilled bands of artizans. Go into Yorkshire and Lancashire, and you will find
armies of drilled labourers at work, where the discipline is perfect, and the results, as regards
the amount of manufactured productions turned out of hand, are prodigious.

