VOL. I.--NO. 28. PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. PRICE FOUR CENTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

WHY?

  "Why must I learn to sing?
    Why learn to fly?"
  Said a young bird to its mother--
    "Why, oh, why?"

  "All birdies learn to sing;
    All learn to fly,"
  To the young bird said its mother;
    "And that's 'why.'"

HUNTING IN ARCTIC REGIONS.

Although in the remote and dreary ice regions of the extreme North a variety of game, including
bear, whale, walrus, seal, reindeer, foxes, wolves, ptarmigan, ducks, and geese, is found and
pursued by the hardy Esquimau, or Innuit, it is upon the capture of the seal that he expends
the most time and labor. The seal is everything to him, and without it life could hardly be
sustained. In the words of Captain Hall: "To the Innuit the seal is all that flocks and herds,
grain fields, forests, coal mines, and petroleum wells are to dwellers in more favored lands.
It furnishes him with food, fuel, and clothing."

"Nutchook" (the seal) is one of the most wary and suspicious of animals, and to capture him
when he is on his guard requires an almost incredible amount of skill and perseverance. The
Innuits say that "Ninoo" (the bear) taught them to capture the seal, and that if they could
talk to Nutchook as cleverly as Ninoo does, they would capture him much oftener than they do.
When Ninoo sees, at a distance upon the ice, a black spot that he knows to be Nutchook taking
a nap beside his air-hole, he makes up his mind that he will dine that day off seal.

Nutchook's nap is a series of "cat-naps," each lasting about ten seconds, and after each he
lifts his head and looks around. Ninoo crouches low upon the ice, and creeps along when the
seal is napping. The moment his head is raised, the bear stops short and begins to talk to
Nutchook. The sound that he utters while thus talking is quite different from his ordinary
voice, and seems to charm the seal, who lays his head down for another nap, during which Ninoo
again advances. At last the bear is within springing distance, and in a moment all is over
with poor Nutchook.

Although seals are caught at all seasons of the year, the great hunts take place in the spring
and early summer months. At this time the fur is in the best possible condition, and as they
play in the open water lanes near the coast, or bask in great numbers on the ice, their capture
is comparatively easy. During the summer the glare of the sun so affects the eyes of the seal
that he becomes almost blind, and is easily approached.

Hundreds of vessels, many of them steamers, are engaged in the seal fishery, and on the first
page of this number is a picture of the boats belonging to one of these "sealers" drifting
cautiously down upon a number of seals that have been basking and frolicking on the ice, heedless
of the approach of danger. Hundreds of thousands of seals are thus killed every year for the
sake of their skins, which are shipped to every part of the world, and from which are made
the beautiful sacques, muffs, tippets, and gloves with which most of our readers are so familiar.
Only last month a disaster occurred that vividly illustrates the danger of sealing. A huge
ice-field a hundred miles long, and bringing with it thousands of seals, drifted down from
the North, and stranded on the coast of Newfoundland near St. Johns. For several days the people
living along the coast ventured far out on the ice, and captured great numbers of the seals.

Suddenly, on the 4th of April, the northeast wind that had been blowing steadily for two weeks,
and keeping the ice packed, changed to a warm southerly breeze. The ice-pack broke, became
intersected in every direction by lanes of water, and began to drift out to sea, carrying with
it more than two hundred of the hardy hunters. Many of these were rescued by steamers, but
others were borne away into the fog, beyond the hope of rescue, far out to sea, where they
have perished from starvation, freezing, or drowning. For weeks past dead bodies have been
cast upon the rugged coast by the sea, but the fate of many of the lost will never be known.

Mr. Ninoo, who hunts the seal so successfully, is hunted in turn for the sake of his thick
soft fur, and often falls a victim both to white men and Esquimaux. The latter sometimes kill
him by rolling a thick piece of whalebone, about two feet long and four inches wide, into a
small coil, and wrapping it in a piece of seal blubber so that it forms a ball. Placed outside
the hut, it soon freezes hard. Provided with this frozen bait, the natives search for Ninoo.
When they find him, they run away, and he chases them; but they drop the ball of blubber, and
he, meeting with it, greedily swallows it whole. In a few minutes the heat of his body thaws
the blubber and releases the whalebone. It uncoils with terrible force, and so tears his stomach
that the great bear falls down in helpless agony, to which an end is quickly put by the hunter,
who now hurries to the spot. There was no more fighting. The British government was nearly
ready to give up to the United States, and own that they "were, and of right ought to be, free
and independent," as the great Declaration had said more than five years before. But such things
take a long time to settle, and General Washington thought that the Americans could make a
great deal better terms of peace if they kept ready for war. How tired he was of the war! How
he longed to get back to Mount Vernon, and to his peaceful farmer's life! His letters written
about this time are full of these desires. He was a great General; and the whole country honored
and loved him as a man whose courage and skill had made his countrymen free, but he often said
that he would give all the glory he had won if he could go back to his crops and his trees,
his horses and his hounds, and his beloved family, and rest. Yet he stood by his post to the
very last. He begged his countrymen to keep up the army, and not to lay down their arms till
everything was sure. He begged his officers and soldiers to be patient and stay with him, though
they had much reason to complain. They had been poorly paid, or not paid at all. Many of them
were actually ruined for their country, and, when they left the army, did not know where or
how they should get a living. At this moment some of them thought they would be happier and
better off under a King, if that King were Washington. They said to themselves: "It is all
very well to be free, but here is a free nation which turns its old soldiers out to starve,
which does not pay its debts, which hardly deserves freedom. We should have greater justice,
and more peace and safety, with this wise, strong man as King." One of Washington's officers
hinted as much to him. The General was filled with sorrow and anger and shame at the very thought.
What had he done, that men should think he would consent to such treason? He wrote to the man
who had suggested the plan, "If you have any regard for your country, or respect for me, banish
these thoughts from your mind."

At last, in the spring of 1783, word came that a treaty of peace had been signed, and that
the independence of the United States was no longer disputed. This joyful news was read to
the American army on the 19th of April, just eight years after the first gallant fight at Concord
in 1775. Washington wrote a farewell address to the army which he had led so long. It was like
the wise and loving speech of a good father. He thanked them warmly for the noble spirit with
which they had upheld him during the tedious and cruel years of war; he reminded them of the
end for which they had fought, that the United States might be a free nation, with the right
to govern itself as it thought best; and he prayed them to do all that they could to make their
country just and wise in peace, as it had been brave and fortunate in war. It was winter before
Washington had the affairs of his command settled so that he could leave the army and return
to his home. On the 4th of December he met the principal officers of the army at New York to
bid them farewell. They were gathered for that purpose at Fraunce's Tavern when he entered.
Then one by one, as the officers came to him, he clasped hands with each, and embraced him
in silence. These brave men, who had faced death together, and had cheerfully borne untold
privation, were not ashamed to weep at parting with their beloved friend and chief. When he
had saluted them all, he passed through a corps of soldiers outside the door, and walked to
the river-side, followed by the officers in solemn silence. He entered the barge, and raising
his hat, he waved them farewell; and they, with the same loving gesture, watched the barge
push off, and turned away. Washington took his journey to Annapolis, in Maryland, gave up his
commission to Congress, and returned to Mount Vernon.

He reached his home on Christmas-eve, 1783. It was more than eight years and a half since he
had left it to join the Continental Congress at Philadelphia, and he had seen it but twice
in that long interval. When he went away he was forty-three years old--in the very prime of
manhood; when he returned he was fifty-one, and felt that he was growing old. Constant labor,
constant care, exposure in the camp and on the march, and the sad and fearful experience of
battle, had told upon his naturally strong frame, and he welcomed the prospect of rest as simply
and as gladly as a tired child.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE MAGIC SPINET.

BY MRS. J. E. McCONAUGHY.

The gay people of Paris were one day invited to attend a musical entertainment, in which "a
magic spinet" was to be the chief attraction. Its wonders were set forth in glowing terms,
and a large audience gathered at the appointed time to witness its performance. The poor musician,
whose all was at stake, looked on the assembly with rejoicing eyes, but perhaps with a little
trembling lest his "magic" should not work as perfectly as at rehearsals.

After some playing by himself and his two little children, all stepped back, and, at the word
of command, the instrument repeated the whole symphony. This marvel was well received, when
the musician pretended to wind up his machine by a very hard-working winch, which made a terrible
racket.

Now the wise ones thought it all explained. "Only a foolish contrivance of weights and springs,
like a barrel-organ," they said. That was just what the musician wished them to think, as it
would make his triumph more decided. He now proceeded to show them that the instrument had
a mind capable of hearing and obeying. Calling his children away, he waved his wand, and in
an authoritative voice commanded, "Spinet, play"--such a tune.

The instrument obediently played the tune. Then the order was given, "Spinet, be silent," and
all was quiet.

"Spinet, give us a light flourish," and it instantly warbled forth the gayest melody, which
was received with rapturous applause. Then the whole sentiment of the audience was changed,
and all admitted that Jean Baptiste Raisin, the musician, was also a great magician.

Evening after evening he repeated his performance, and the gold poured in beyond his fondest
dreams. His reputation spread far and wide, and at last reached the King. He would have this
novelty brought to court, and let the Queen and the royal ladies enjoy such a wonderful entertainment.

Jean was not used to courts, but his passion for money was growing fast, and he determined
fairly to outdo himself in such a golden harvest field. His instrument was "instructed" to
a most unusual degree, and at the appointed time was in good working order at the palace of
Versailles. Everything proceeded famously until the organist carried on his old trick of "winding
up." Royal ears were not used to such horrid discords as followed the working of that winch.
The delicate nerves of all the ladies were dreadfully shocked, the Queen's in particular.

But I suppose a Queen's curiosity is much like other people's. She must have a view of the
evil spirit inside the instrument, which seemed to play so unwillingly, judging from the shrieks
it gave out on being wound up. The poor organist protested he had "lost the key." But that
was of no avail.

"Can not some one break it open?" asked the King. Royalty has a very persuasive way, so Jean
was forced at last to open the box; and what do you think they found within? A poor trembling
little lad, not six years old, who operated a set of keys inside, which his father had constructed
for him. The whole instrument was planned with this performance in view, the lad's small size
and wonderful musical talent making the deception possible.

It was plain that the little one was half fainting with the stifled air he had breathed so
long; and ready hands reached out to help him, and kind voices soothed and comforted him. When
he was refreshed, all wished to hear him play in fair sight, and the praising and petting and
confections and gold coins showered upon him would have turned a wiser head. Defeat was turned
into a grand victory.

His father now invented a comedy, in which little Louis acted an important part.

A company appeared seated about a table, with a big black-pudding before them. When the pudding
was cut, a great outcry was heard within. Soon it began to roll about the plates, and at last
out hopped a little pig. They chased it about awhile with skewers, and finally, just as it
was caught, it changed into an imp, with horns and hoofs, and a sabre by its side. Of course
the company were greatly frightened, and tumbled down on the stage, pell-mell, all in a heap.
But one sad day a performer thrust too hard with his sharp skewer, and poor little Louis performed
and played no more. They laid him away in the pleasant cemetery, and very soon a heartbroken
little sister, who could not be comforted, was laid beside him.

"Anything wrong below, Smith?"

"Well, sir, she's got a precious list to port, and the water's runnin' into the fire-room like
anythin'. Seems to come from under the coals."

"Have them shifted at once, then, and see what's wrong."

"Ay, ay, sir."

Frank had overheard the fireman's report to the first officer, and a thought struck him. Walking
aft till he was right over the engine-room, he climbed out under the "guard," and looked keenly
along the port quarter. Aha! There, just as he had expected, was a port-hole standing wide
open, and letting in water at every plunge of the vessel.

"Well done, my boy! that's twice you've got us all out of a scrape," said Mr. Hawkins, to whom
Frank hastily reported what he had seen. "How did you come to think of that port-hole?"

"I'd noticed it when I was shovelling down there, sir, and I thought that must be it."

"Good! I like to see a youngster keep his wits about him. Send up the carpenter to fix it,
will you? I won't forget to tell Captain Gray what you've done, depend upon it."

This, of itself, would have been a sufficient "event" for the first day out from Malta; but
another was still to come. The next morning Frank noticed two new faces among the firemen,
and asked Herrick who they were.

"Stowaways, lad," said the old tar. "We found 'em hid away among the cargo last night, and
now we're making 'em work their passage. There was three on 'em altogether, but them two Britishers
are all that's any good. The third was a Maltee lubber, who'd never done nothin' but wait at
table, and sich; so we jist sent him aft to sarve the officers."

That evening there was a sudden cry of "Fire!" and Frank, to whom the mere thought of a fire
at sea had always been a perfect nightmare, was amazed to see how coolly the men got out their
hose-pipes and took their appointed stations, without the slightest flurry or confusion. In
three minutes all was ready; but happily it proved to be a false alarm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ha! what is this long gray band along the southern sky, with one tall white line standing up
from it like a mast, and two black bars stretching from its edge far into the bright blue waters?
Can it be the coast of Egypt already? It is nothing else. The white streak is Port Said Light-house;
the black bars are the walls of its breakwater, running their huge piled-up blocks of "concrete"
nearly two miles out to sea.

Frank was greatly amused with the quaint little toy town of 5000 inhabitants, perched between
the desert and the sea, where everybody shut up their stores and went to sleep in the middle
of the day; where, thanks to the deep soft sand, carriages and horsemen went by as noiselessly
as shadows; and where every gust of wind raised a dust-storm that hid people, houses, and everything
else. Here, for the first time, he saw a punka, or monster fan, worked by a rope, and hung
from the ceiling of a room. He was shown over the light-house by a trim little Arab boy and
girl, who, to his great surprise, turned out to be man and wife; and altogether he had plenty
of new impressions to think over when he at last found himself fairly afloat upon the Suez
Canal.[1]

A narrow ribbon of light green water between two interminable sand-banks, growing gradually
higher as they advanced southward; a huge "dredger" every here and there, lying like a castle
upon the water, with a clamorous garrison of blue-shirted men and red-capped boys; an occasional
tug-boat, disdainfully greeted by Herrick as "Puffing Billy"; a distant caravan, with its endless
file of camels and horses and men, melting away in curve after curve, like some mighty serpent,
far back into the quivering haze that hovered over the hot brassy desert--such were the main
features of the famous passage, begun by Pharaoh-Necho, and finished by Lesseps. The sun was
sinking as they cast anchor for the night before Ismailia, and saw the mouth of the Sweetwater
Canal, and the docks and houses of the brand-new town which the late sovereign of Egypt built
and named after himself, fading into the fast-falling darkness.

Starting again next morning, they passed Suez about noon (fortunately without having to halt
at one of the ugliest and dirtiest towns in the world), and headed down the Red Sea. Frank
took a good look, in passing, at the bold headland of Ras Attakah, which is said by the best
authorities to mark the scene of the Israelite passage, and where, according to a grim Arab
legend, the shrieks of Pharaoh's drowning host may still be heard at times mingling with the
roar of the storm. Farther on, a break in the sea-board hills gave him one glimpse of the huge
square dark gray mass of Sinai,[2] far away to the east; and then they were in the open sea
once more.

Keeping well out to sea, they escaped the net-work of coral reefs which beset the Arabian coast
for forty-five miles together; but they could not escape the heat, which overpowered not a
few even of the old hands. Again and again strong men were carried fainting from the engine-room,
to be tended by a surgeon almost as sick as themselves. The stiff breeze that was blowing,
instead of refreshing them, seemed to bring with it the heat of all the African deserts at
once, and a passing steamer signaled that she had lost sixteen men by it in two days.

"See that lubber of a mountain spoutin' fire, as if 'twarn't hot enough already!" growled Herrick,
pointing to the volcanic islet of Jebel Teer. "That other island yonder's where the Arabs think
their spirits go when they die; but I guess if I was a spirit, I'd like to have a cooler berth."

But once through the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb (Gate of Tears) into the Indian Ocean, Frank's
ideas of a tropical voyage were fully realized. Bright skies, smooth seas, a steady breeze
abeam keeping all cool, porpoises frolicking around the ship by hundreds, gay-plumaged birds
alighting in the rigging, and a dance on deck every night to the music of fiddle and concertina,
with a roaring accompaniment of sea-chorus that might have pleased Captain Marryat himself.
Frank's throat was sore for a whole day after his patriotic efforts to "give full mouth" to
one of these, which began thus:

  "May our good ship Arizona have fair winds to fill her sails!
  She can race the King of Sharks, not to say the Prince of Whales;
  And she'll laugh at Arab roaches and at crawling British snails,
                          As she goes sailing on."

The guns were got ready as they ran through the pirate-haunted Straits of Malacca; and though
no pirate ventured to attack them, they had to face an enemy quite as dangerous that very afternoon.
Frank, who had been looking at the blue Sumatra hills, with here and there a curl of smoke
above the trees to show where the sandalwood gatherers were at work, was suddenly startled
by the cry of, "A water-spout!"

There it was, sure enough, the long dark pillar, topped by a mass of black cloud, moving swiftly
over the sea. Two native fishing-boats were flying before it, one of which was speedily drawn
into the swirling foam at the base of the column. The other, more fortunate, got under the
lee of the steamer.

"Give him a shot, Herrick," shouted the Captain, and the old quartermaster obeyed. The first
shell missed, though so narrowly that the spout was seen to quiver; but the second burst right
upon the thinnest part of the column, which broke and fell, with a noise that might have been
heard for miles. For a moment the whole air was dark as night with spray and smoke; then a
torrent of rain burst upon them, and when it cleared away, not a trace of their terrible enemy
was to be seen.

The morning after her water-spout adventure the Arizona sighted the light-ship marking the
approach to Singapore; and after an exciting race with an English screw-steamer, ran safely
over the bar into the harbor. This was certainly rather hard upon the native pilot-boat, which
had put out to her in the hope of a job; and the six black, half-clothed scarecrows who pulled
it vented their feelings in a prolonged howl and a clatter of their diamond-shaped oar blades,
to which Jack Dewey replied by asking, with an air of deep interest, how much they would take
to "come on board and new pitch the boats with the tar off their elegant black hides."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Of the eighty-six miles of the canal, nearly thirty lie through the shallow lakes of Menzaleh,
Timsah, and "Bitter Water," the channel being marked by posts or mounds. Its depth is twenty-six
and a quarter feet, its mean breadth about seventy, and in the "sidings" nearly one hundred.

[2] Called by the Arabs "Jebel Mousa" (Mountain of Moses).

STORIES FROM THE MINES.

