Country society has but little relief; and in proportion to intellectual refinement, this monotony
appears to increase. We have always been favourable to Book Clubs in country towns, and about
ten years since, established one in the anti-social town of ----. The plan worked well; its
economy was admired, and extensively adopted all over England, but we heard little of its contributing
to the social enjoyments of the people. Twenty families reading the same books, and these passed
from house to house, among the respectability of the town, might have brought about a kind
of consanguinity of opinion, and led to frequent interchange of civilities, meetings of the
members at each others' houses, or at least a sort of how-d'ye-do acquaintance. The case was
otherwise. The attorney and the doctor joined our society that their families of ten or twelve
sons and daughters might keep under the sixpences and shillings of the circulating library;
but they soon became jealous of new books, although they often returned them uncut and unread;
and so far from knitting the bonds of acquaintance, we at last thought our plan served to estrange
the members, by affording the little aristocracy frequent opportunities for venting their splenetic
pride; the books were like disjunctive conjunctions, and when we left the place, the "society"
did not promise to live another year.

We could entertain ourselves, at least, with sketches of a few of the members of this disjointed
body; but we must be content with one, and that shall be the bookseller of the town.

Imagine a man of middle height, rather inclined to obesity, and just turned of fifty-eight.
He had a broad, low forehead, sunken eyes, an aquiline nose, a heavy, hanging lip, and a chin
which buried its projections in ample and unclassical folds of neckerchief. He was bald, except
a tuft on the occiput, or hinder part of his head, and on dress occasions he wore powder. He
was a widower, his wife having been dead about ten years, leaving him two daughters, the amiability
of whose dispositions was a painful contrast to the uneven temper of their father. He kept
a good table, and had the best cellar of grape wine in the town, but entertained little company.
His guests were usually the valets or butlers of the gentry in the neighbourhood; but the housekeepers
were never invited by his daughters, a point of propriety in male and female acquaintanceship
which amused us not a little. His business was of a most multifarious description, and besides
the trades of bookseller, stationer, and druggist, he had a printing-office, and was, moreover,
a self-taught printer, He was post-master and stamp sub-distributor, receiver of bail, and
agent for insurances--little official appointments which would have made him mayor in a corporate
town. Of late years, he seldom meddled with these matters of business; but tired of their common
track, he struck out a course of life, which was neither public nor private, but made him a
sort of oracle in the town, whose opinions were freely printed and gratuitously circulated,
whilst the author was seldom seen except at vestry-meetings. In this way he acted as secretary
to a benevolent society established by the gentry, and such was his enthusiasm that he gave
his services and £200. worth of printing during the first year; and the Committee in return
presented him with a handsome piece of plate with a complimentary inscription, which he had
the modesty to keep locked up, and never to display even to his visiters. This proved him to
be a benevolent man, and he would have been ten times more useful had not his charitable disposition
been over tinged with oddity and caprice. His contact with the poor of the parish soon made
him overseer, although his religious observances would not qualify him for churchwarden; for
he only went to church at funerals, to which he was frequently invited, his staid appearance,
and a certain air of gentility of which he was master, being in such cases no mean recommendation.
Overseer and select vestryman, he printed the parish accounts, for the most part gratuitously,
although the poor and even the better portion of the towns-people never gave him full credit
for this generosity, conceiving that he was repaid by some secret services or funds. The oddity
of his pursuits was only exceeded by their variety. In politics he was a disciple of Cobbett,
and year after year, foretold a revolution, an alarm which he communicated to every one of
his household. He took extreme interest in all new mechanical projects, but seldom indulged
in the practical part of them. In wine-making he was once a very experimentalist, and studied
every line of Macculloch and unripe fruit; next, he turned over every inch of his garden, analyzed
the soil à la Davy, and salted all his growing crops. His cogitative habits led him to take
long walks in the country, and he soon flew from horticultural chemistry to real farming; and
about the same time took to road making and macadamization, and became a surveyor of the highways.
But the trustees wanting to macadamize the miserably pitched street of the town, he bethought
him of dust in summer and mud in winter, and drew up a long memorial to the lords of the soil,
remonstrating with them on their impolitic conduct; but all in vain. It is curious, however,
to reflect that what the people of a country town about ten years ago thought a curse to their
roads should now be adopted in many of the principal London Streets. The last we heard of our
bookseller's hobbies, was that he had bought the lease of a house for the sake of the large
garden attached to it, and here, like Evelyn in his Elysium Britannicum, he passes his days
in the primitive occupation of gardening.

Our bookseller is a self-educated man, and in some pamphlets on the charitable institution
to which we have alluded, are many of the errors of style peculiar to self-educated writers.
Among his acquaintance we remember an attorney who practised in London, but had a small house
in the town. He had been editor and proprietor of four or five morning and evening newspapers,
and furnished our bookseller with all the news off 'Change and about town. This friend and
the journals were his oracles, and their influence he digested in morsels of political economy,
so introduced into his pamphlets as not to offend the landed gentry of the neighbourhood. To
them, it should be mentioned, he was a most useful personage, and his aid and auspices, were
almost necessary to the success of any project for the interest of the town. The trades-people
looked up to him; they would agree if Mr. ---- did, or they would wait his opinion.

We have heard that he has been a gallant in his time; and more than once he has told little
stories of dances and harvest homes, and merry meetings at the wealthy farmers' in the neighbourhood,
of the moonlight walk home, and of his companions counting their won guineas on their return
from an evening party--all of which throw into shade the social amusements of our artificial
times. We have said that he kept a good table; for presents of game poured in from the gentlemen's
bailiffs in the neighbourhood, fish from town to be repaid by summer visits, and if the fishmonger
of the place was overstocked, the first person he sent to was our bookseller. Again, he would
take a post-chaise, or the White Hart barouche, for a party of pleasure, when his neighbours
would have been happy with a gig. He did not join, or allow his daughters to mix with them
at the tradesman's ball, but they staid moping at home, because there was none between the
gentry and trade. Yet the professional and little-fortune people cried ---- trade, and thus
our bookseller belonged to neither class. The people of the place know not whether he is rich;
he has been "making money" all his life-time say they, but he has "lived away." It is, however,
to be regretted that they cannot settle the point, since they determine to a pound the income
of every gentleman and lady in the neighbourhood, and, doff their hats according to the total.

To sum up his character, he is just and sometimes generous; hospitable but not unostentatious;
dictatorial and circumlocutory to excess in his conversation, and of an inquisitive turn of
mind, and considering his resources, he is well informed and even clever in matters of the
world; in short, he is a perfect pattern of the gentleman tradesmen of the present day.

PHILO.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

EMIGRATION.

A pamphlet of Twenty-four Letters from Labourers in America to their Friends in England, has
lately reached our hands. These letters have been addressed by emigrants to their relatives
in the eastern part of Sussex, and have been printed literatim. We are aware of the strong
prejudice which exists against the practice of parishes sending off annually, a part of their
surplus population to America; but some of the statements in these letters will stagger the
Noes. We quote a few from letters written during the past year:

Brooklyn, Jan. 14, 1828.

John is at work as carpenter, for the winter; his Boss gives him 5s. a day, our money, which
is little more than 2s. 6d, English money. They tell us that winter is a dead time in America;
but we have found it as well and better than we expected. We can get good flour for 11d. English
money; good beef for 2d. or 3d do, and mutton the same price; pork about 4d.; sugar, very good,
5d.; butter and cheese is not much cheaper than in England; clothing is rather dear, especially
woollen; worsted stockings are dear.

New Hereford, June 30, 1828.

Dear Father and Mother,

I now take the opportunity of writing to you since our long journey. But I am very sorry to
tell you, that we had the misfortune to lose both our little boys; Edward died 29th April,
and William 5th May; the younger died with bowel complaint; the other with the rash-fever and
sore throat. We were very much hurt to have them buried in a watery grave; we mourned their
loss; night and day they were not out of our minds. We had a minister on board, who prayed
with us twice a day; he was a great comfort to us, on the account of losing our poor little
children. He said, The Lord gave, and taketh away; and blessed be the name of the Lord. We
should make ourselves contented if we had our poor little children here with us: we kept our
children 24 hours. There were six children and one woman died in the vessel. Master Bran lost
his wife. Mrs. Coshman, from Bodiam, lost her two only children. My sister Mary and her two
children are living at Olbourn, about 80 miles from us. Little Caroline and father is living
with us; and our three brothers are living within a mile of us. Brother James was very ill
coming over, with the same complaint that William had. We were very sick for three weeks, coming
over: John was very hearty, and so was father. We were afraid we should loose little Caroline;
but the children and we are hearty at this time. Sarah and Caroline are often speaking of going
to see their grandmother. Mary's children were all well, except little John; he was bad with
a great cold. I have got a house and employ. I have 4s. a day and my board; and in harvest
and haying I am to have 6s. or 7s. a day and my board. We get wheat for 7s. per bushel, of
our money; that is about 3s. 7d. of your money; meat is about 3d. per pound; butter from 5d.
to 6d.; sugar about the same as in England; shoes and clothes about the same as it is with
you; tea is from 2s. 6d. 3s. 6d. of your money; tobacco is about 9d. per pound, of your money;
good whisky about 1s. 1d. per gallon; that is 2s. of your money.

Hudson State, New York, July 6, 1828.

I must tell you a little what friends we met with when we landed in to Hudson; such friends
as we never found in England; but it was chiefly from that people that love and fear God. We
had so much meat brought us, that we could not eat while it was good; a whole quarter of a
calf at once; so we had two or three quarters in a little time, and seven stone of beef. One
old gentleman came and brought us a wagon load of wood, and two chucks of bacon; some sent
flour, some bread, some cheese, some soap, some candles, some chairs, some bedsteads. One class-leader
sent us 3s. worth of tin ware and many other things. The flowers are much here as yours; provision
is not very cheap; flour is 1s. 7d. a gallon of this money, about 10d. of yours; butter is
1s., your money 6d.; meat from 2d. to 6d., yours 1d. to 3d.; sugar 10d. to 1s. yours 5d. and
6d. Tell father I wish I could send him nine or ten pound of tobacco; for it is 1s. a pound;
I chaws rarely.

Constantia, Dec. 2, 1828.

Dear Children,

I now write for the third time since I left old England. I wrote a letter, dated October 8th;
and finding that it would have four weeks to lay, I was afraid you would not have it; and as
I told you I would write the truth, if I was forced to beg my bread from door to door, so I
now proceed. Dear children, I write to let you know that we are all in good health, excepting
your mother; and she is now just put to bed of another son, and she is as well as can be expected.
And now as it respects what I have got in America: I have got 12-1/2 acres of land, about half
improved, and the rest in the state of nature, and two cows of my own. We can buy good land
for 18s. per acre; but buying of land is not one quarter part, for the land is as full of trees
as your woods are of stubs; and they are from four to ten rods long, and from one to five feet
through them. You may buy land here from 18s. to 9l. in English money; and it will bring from
20 to 40 bushels of wheat per acre, and corn from 20 to 50 bushels per acre, and rye from 20
to 40 ditto. You may buy beef for 1-3/4d. per pound; and mutton the same; Irish butter 7d.
per pound; cheese 3d.; tea 4s. 6d.; sugar 7d. per pound; candles 7d.; soap 7d.; and wheat 4s.
6d. per bushel; corn and rye 2s. per bushel. And I get 2s. 4d. a day and my board; and have
as much meat to eat, three times a day, as I like to eat. But clothing is dear; shoes 8s.;
half boots 16s.; calico from 8d. to 1s. 4d.; stockings 2s. 9d. to 3s. 6d.; flannel 4s. per
yard; superfine cloth from 4s. 6d. to 1l.; now all this is counted in English money. We get
4s. per day in summer, and our board; and if you count the difference of the money, you will
soon find it out; 8s. in our money is 4s. 6d. in your money.

The reader will perhaps think we give only the "milk and honey" of these letters, but they
bear the stamp of authenticity.

       *       *       *       *       *

KENILWORTH.

Every body knows the delightful romance of Kenilworth,--a tragedy, of which the dramatis personae
are the parties themselves, called up from their graves by the novelist magician. Students
who attend St. Mary's Church, Oxford, still look out for the flat stone which covers the dust
and bones of poor Amy, and could any sculptured effigies supply the place of the whole historical
picture, then imagined in the mind's eye? More than once attracted by the old ballad,[1] we
have, when undergraduates, walked to the "lonely towers of Cumnor Hall," fancied that we saw
her struggle, and heard her screams, when she was thrown over the staircase (the traditional
mode of her assassination,) and wondered how any man could have the heart to murder a simple
lovesick pretty girl. Even now, in sorrow and in sadness, we read this account:--

The unfortunate Amye Duddley (for so she subscribes herself in the Harleian Manuscript, 4712,)
the first wife of Lord Robert Dudley, Queen Elizabeth's favourite, and after Amy's death Earl
of Leicester, was daughter of Sir John Robsart. Her marriage took place June 4, 1550, the day
following that on which her lord's eldest brother had been united to a daughter of the Duke
of Somerset, and the event is thus recorded by King Edward in his Diary: "4. S. Robert dudeley,
third sonne to th' erle of warwic, married S. John Robsartes daughter; after wich mariage ther
were certain gentlemen that did strive who shuld first take away a gose's heade wich was hanged
alive on tow crose postes." Soon after the accession of Elizabeth, when Dudley's ambitious
views of a royal alliance had opened upon him, his countess mysteriously died at the retired
mansion of Cumnor near Abingdon,[2] Sept. 8, 1560; and, although the mode of her death is imperfectly
ascertained (her body was thrown down stairs, as a blind,) there appears far greater foundation
for supposing the earl guilty of her murder, than usually belongs to such rumours, all her
other attendants being absent at Abingdon fair, except Sir Richard Verney and his man. The
circumstances, distorted by gross anachronisms, have been weaved into the delightful romance
of "Kenilworth."

Of the goose and posts, we can suggest no better explanation than that the goose was intended
for poor Amy, and the cross posts for the Protector Somerset, and his rival Dudley Duke of
Northumberland, both of whom were bred to the devil's trade, ambition. Others may be possessed
of more successful elucidation. At all events, it is plain that the people had a very suspicious
opinion of Leicester, amounting to this, that he was a great rascal, who played a deep game,
and stuck at nothing which he could do without danger to himself.[3]--Gentleman's Magazine.

    [ 1] We believe, in Evans's collection.

    [ 2] It is only three miles from Oxford, and six or seven from
        Abingdon.

    [ 3] His general mode of murder was by poison; and it is said, that
        he so perished himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEXICAN MINES.

It appears that, on an average of the fifteen years previous to the revolution, about twenty-two
millions of dollars were exported, and that there was an accumulation of about two millions.
Since the revolution, the exports have averaged 13,587,052 dollars, while the produce has decreased
to eleven millions. This change was the natural consequence of the revolution. The favourable
accounts of Humboldt excited a spirit of speculation that was wholly regardless of passing
events; and the Act of Congress, facilitating the co-operation of foreigners with the natives,
produced a mania which has been destructive to numberless individuals, who trusted too much
to names. Seven English companies, with a capital of at least three millions, were established,
and these were followed by two American, and one German, companies. Such was the rage for mining
on the Royal Exchange, that for a time it was only necessary for any one to appear with contracts
made with Mexican mine owners to establish a company. Many who were so ignorant as not even
to know the difference between a shaft and a level, commenced speculators, not for the purpose
of fairly earning a reward for doing some service to those to whom they offered their mines,
but to fill their own purses without reference to consequences. Such a system of unprincipled
conduct could not last; almost all the minor performers have been driven from the stage, and
the respectable associations alone maintain their footing, though the want of returns for the
immense sums invested has tended to produce a general want of confidence.

