"Sire," he said, "you may avoid both mockery and danger, and yet attend the masquerade. Be
sure, if there is indeed a plot, the assassins will be informed of the disguise you are to
wear. Give me your flame-studded domino, and take a plain black one for yourself."

Armfelt gasped at the audacity of the proposal, but Gustavus gave no sign that he had heard.
He continued standing in that tense attitude, his eyes vague and dreamy. And as if to show
along what roads of thought his mind was travelling, he uttered a single word a name--in a
questioning voice scarce louder than a whisper.

Ankarstrom?

Later again he was to think of Ankarstrom, to make inquiries concerning him, which justifies
us here in attempting to follow those thoughts of his. They took the road down which his conscience
pointed. Above all Swedes he had cause to fear John Jacobi Ankarstrom, for, foully as he had
wronged many men in his time, he had wronged none more deeply than that proud, high-minded
nobleman. He hated Ankarstrom as we must always hate those whom we have wronged, and he hated
him the more because he knew himself despised by Ankarstrom with a cold and deadly contempt
that at every turn proclaimed itself.

That hatred was more than twenty years old. It dated back to the time when Gustavus had been
a vicious youth, and Ankarstrom himself a boy. They were much of an age. Gustavus had put upon
his young companion an infamous insult, which had been answered by a blow. His youth and the
admitted provocation alone had saved Ankarstrom from the dread consequence of striking a Prince
of the Royal Blood. But they had not saved him from the vindictiveness of Gustavus. He had
kept his lust of vengeance warm, and very patiently had he watched and waited for his opportunity
to destroy the man, who had struck him.

That chance had come four years ago--in 1788--during the war with Russia. Ankarstrom commanded
the forces defending the island of Gothland. These forces were inadequate for the task, nor
was the island in a proper state of defence, being destitute of forts. To have persevered in
resistance might have been heroic, but it would have been worse than futile, for not only would
it have entailed the massacre of the garrison, but it must have further subjected the inhabitants
to all the horrors of sack and pillage.

In the circumstances, Ankarstrom had conceived it his duty to surrender to the superior force
of Russia, thereby securing immunity for the persons and property of the inhabitants. In this
the King perceived his chance to indulge his hatred. He caused Ankarstrom to be arrested and
accused of high treason, it being alleged against him that he had advised the people of Gothland
not to take up arms against the Russians. The royal agents found witnesses to bear false evidence
against Ankarstrom, with the result that he was sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment in
a fortress. But the sentence was never carried out. Gustavus had gone too far, as he was soon
made aware. The feelings against him which hitherto had smouldered flamed out at this crowning
act of injustice, and to repair his error Gustavus made haste, not, indeed, to exonerate Ankarstrom
from the charges brought against him, but to pardon him for his alleged offences.

When the Swedish nobleman was brought to Court to receive this pardon, he used it as a weapon
against the King whom he despised.

"My unjust judges," he announced in a ringing voice, the echoes of which were carried to the
ends of Sweden, "have never doubted in their hearts my innocence of the charges brought against
me, and established by means of false witnesses. The judgment pronounced against me was unrighteous.
This exemption from it is my proper due. Yet I would rather perish through the enmity of the
King than live dishonoured by his clemency."

Gustavus had set his teeth in rage when those fierce words were reported to him, and his rage
had been increased when he was informed of the cordial reception which everywhere awaited Ankarstrom
on his release. He perceived how far he had overshot his mark, and how, in seeking treacherously
to hurt Ankarstrom, he had succeeded only in hurting himself. Nor had he appeased the general
indignation by his pardon. True, the flame of revolt had been quelled. But he had no lack of
evidence that the fire continued to burn steadily in secret, and to eat its way further and
further into the ranks of noble and simple alike.

It is little wonder, then, that in this moment, with that warning lying there before him, the
name of Ankarstrom should be on his lips, the thought of Ankarstrom, the fear of Ankarstrom,
looming big in his mind. It was big enough to make him heed the warning. He dropped into a chair.

"I will not go," he said, and Bjelke saw that his face was white, his hands shaking.

But when the secretary had repeated the proposal which had earlier gone unheard, Gustavus caught
at it with sudden avidity, and with but little concern for the danger that Bjelke might be
running. He sprang up, applauding it. If a conspiracy there was, the conspirators would thus
be trapped; if there were no conspiracy, then this attempt to frighten him should come to nothing;
thus he would be as safe from the mockery of his enemies as from their knives. Nor did Armfelt
protest or make further attempts to dissuade him from going. In the circumstances proposed
by Bjelke, the risk would be Bjelke's, a matter which troubled Armfelt not at all; indeed,
he had no cause to love Bjelke, in whom he beheld a formidable rival, and it would be to him
no cause for tears if the knife intended for the royal vitals should find its way into Bjelke's
instead.

So Baron Bjelke, arrayed in the domino copied from the penitential sack, departed for the Opera
House, leaving Gustavus to follow. Yet, despite the measure of precaution, no sooner had the
masked King himself entered the crowded theatre, leaning upon the arm of the Count of Essen,
than he conceived that he beheld confirmation of the warning, and regretted that he had not
heeded it to the extent of remaining absent. For one of the first faces he beheld, one of the
few unmasked faces in that brilliantly lit salon, was the face of Ankarstrom, and Ankarstrom
appeared to be watching the entrance.

Gustavus checked in his stride, a tremor ran through him, and he stiffened in his sudden apprehension,
for the sight of the tall figure and haughty, resolute face of the nobleman he had wronged
was of more significance than at first might seem. Ever since his infamous trial Ankarstrom
had been at pains to seize every occasion of marking his contempt for his Prince. Never did
he fail upon the King's appearance in any gathering of which he was a member to withdraw immediately;
and never once had he been known deliberately to attend any function which was to be graced
by the presence of Gustavus. How, then, came he here to this ball given by the King's own command
unless he came for the fell purpose of which the letter had given warning?

The King's impulse was to withdraw immediately. He was taken by a curious, an almost unreasoning,
fear that was quite foreign to him, who, for all his faults, had never yet lacked courage.
But, even as he hesitated, a figure swept past him in a domino flecked with flames, surrounded
by revellers of both sexes, and he remembered that if Ankarstrom were bent on evil his attention
would be held by that figure before which the crowd fell back, and opened out respectfully,
believing it to be the King's. Yet none the less it was Gustavus himself that Ankarstrom continued
to regard in such a ay that the King had a feeling that his mask was made of glass.

