Jean Baptiste Véron, a native, it was understood, of the south of France, established himself
as a merchant at Havre-de-Grâce in 1788, being then a widower with one child, a young boy.
The new-comer's place of business was on the south quay, about a hundred yards west of the
custom-house. He had brought letters of high recommendation from several eminent Paris firms;
his capital was ascertained to be large; and soon, moreover, approving him self to be a man
of keen mercantile discernment, and measured, peremptory, unswerving business habits, it is
not surprising that his commercial transactions speedily took a wide range, or that, at the
end of about fifteen years, M. Véron was pronounced by general consent to be the wealthiest
merchant of the commercial capital of northern France. He was never, albeit, much of a favourite
with any class of society: his manner was too brusque, decided, unbending--his speech too curt,
frequently too bitter, for that; but he managed to steer his course in very difficult times
quite as safely as those who put themselves to great pains and charges to obtain popularity.
He never expressed--publicly at least--any preference for Royalism, Republicanism, or Imperialism;
for fleur-de-lis, bonnet-rouge, or tricolore: in short, Jean Baptiste Véron was a stern, taciturn,
self-absorbed man of business; and as nothing else was universally concluded, till the installation
of a quasi legitimacy by Napoleon Bonaparte, when a circumstance, slight in itself, gave a
clearer significance to the cold, haughty, repellent expression which played habitually about
the merchant's gray, deep-set eyes, and thin, firmly-compressed lips. His newly-engraved private
card read thus:--'J. B. de Véron, Mon Séjour, Ingouville.' Mon Séjour was a charming suburban
domicile, situate upon the Côte, as it is usually termed-a sloping eminence on the north of
Le Havre, which it commands, and now dotted with similar residences, but at the period we are
writing of, very sparsely built upon. Not long after this assumption of the aristocratic prefix
to his name, it was discovered that he had insinuated himself into the very narrow and exclusive
circle of the De Mérodes, who were an unquestionable fragment of the old noblesse, damaged,
it is true, almost irretrievably in purse, as their modest establishment on the Côte too plainly
testified; but in pedigree as untainted and resplendent as in the palmiest days of the Capets.
As the Chevalier de Mérode and his daughter Mademoiselle Henriette-Delphine-Hortense-Marie-Chasse-Loup
de Mérode--described as a tall, fair, and extremely meagre damsel, of about thirty years of
age--were known to be rigidly uncompromising in all matters having reference to ancestry, it
was concluded that Jean Baptiste do Véron had been able to satisfy his noble friends, that
although de facto a merchant from the sad necessities of the evil time, he was de jure entitled
to take rank and precedence with the illustrious though decayed nobility of France. It might
be, too, as envious gossips whispered, that any slight flaw or break in the chain of De Véron's
patrician descent, had been concealed or overlooked in the glitter of his wealth, more especially
if it was true, as rumour presently began to circulate, that the immense sum--in French eyes
and ears--of 300,000 francs (L.12,000) was to be settled upon Mademoiselle de Mérode and her
heirs on the day which should see her united in holy wedlock with Eugène de Véron, by this
time a fine-looking young man, of one or two-and-twenty, and, like ninety-nine in every hundred
of the youth of France, strongly prejudiced against the pretensions of mere birth and hereditary
distinction.

Rumour in this instance was correctly informed. 'Eugène,' said M. de Véron, addressing his
son in his usual cold positive manner, and at the same time locking his private écritoire,
the hand of the clock being just on the stroke of five, the hour for closing--'I have a matter
of importance to inform you of. All differences between me and the Chevalier de Mérode relative
to your marriage with his daughter, Mademoiselle de Mérode, are'----

'Hein!' ejaculated Eugène, suddenly whirling round upon his stool, and confronting his father.
'Hein!'

'All differences, I say,' resumed M. de Véron with unruffled calm and decision, 'between myself
and the chevalier are arranged à l'aimable; and the contract of marriage will be ready, for
your and Mademoiselle de Mérode's signature, on Monday next at two precisely.'

'Mine and Mademoiselle de Mérode's!' repeated the astounded son, who seemed half doubtful whether
he saw or heard aright.

'Yes. No wonder you are surprised. So distinguished a connection could hardly, under the circumstances,
have been hoped for; and it would have been cruel to have given you any intimation on the subject
whilst there was a chance of the negotiation issuing unfavourably. Your wife and you will,
for the present, at all events, take up your abode at Mon Séjour; and I must consequently look
out at once for a smaller, a more bachelor-suiting residence.'

'My wife and me!' echoed Véron junior with the same air of stupid amazement as before--'My
wife and me!' Recovering a little, he added: 'Confound it, there must be some mistake here.
Do you know, mon père, that this Mademoiselle de Mérode is not at all to my taste? I would
as soon marry'----

'No folly, Eugène, if you please,' interrupted M. de Véron. 'The affair, as I have told you,
is decided. You will marry Mademoiselle de Mérode; or if not, he added with iron inflexibility
of tone and manner--'Eugène de Véron is likely to benefit very little by his father's wealth,
which the said Eugène will do well to remember is of a kind not very difficult of transference
beyond the range of the law of inheritance which prevails in France. The leprosy of the Revolution,'
continued M. de Véron as he rose and put on his hat, 'may indeed be said to have polluted our
very hearths, when we find children setting up their opinions, and likings and dislikings,
forsooth! against their fathers' decision, in a matter so entirely within the parental jurisdiction
as that of a son or daughter's marriage.'

Eugène did not reply; and after assisting his father--who limped a little in consequence of
having severely sprained his ankle some eight or ten days previously--to a light one-horse
carriage in waiting outside, he returned to the office, and resumed his seat, still in a maze
of confusion, doubt, and dismay. 'How could,' he incoherently muttered--'how could my father--how
could anybody suppose that----How could he especially be so blind as not to have long ago perceived----What
a contrast!' added Eugène de Véron jumping up, breaking into passionate speech, and his eyes
sparkling as if he was actually in presence of the dark-eyed divinity whose image filled his
brain and loosed his tongue--'what a contrast! Adéline, young, roseate, beautiful as Spring,
lustrous as Juno, graceful as Hebe! Oh, par exemple, Mademoiselle de Mérode, you, with your
high blood and skinny bones, must excuse me. And poor, too, poor as Adéline! Decidedly, the
old gentleman must be crazed, and--and let me see----Ay, to be sure, I must confer with Edouard
at once.'

Eugène de Véron had only one flight of stairs to ascend in order to obtain this conference,
Edouard le Blanc, the brother of Adéline, being a principal clerk in the establishment. Edouard
le Blanc readily and sincerely condoled with his friend upon the sudden obscuration of his
and Adéline's hopes, adding that he had always felt a strong misgiving upon the subject; and
after a lugubrious dialogue, during which the clerk hinted nervously at a circumstance which,
looking at the unpleasant turn matters were taking, might prove of terrible import--a nervousness
but very partially relieved by Eugène's assurance, that, come what may, he would take the responsibility
in that particular entirely upon himself, as, indeed, he was bound to do--the friends left
the office, and wended their way to Madame le Blanc's, Ingouville. There the lover forgot,
in Adéline's gay exhilarating presence and conversation, the recent ominous and exasperating
communication from his father; while Edouard proceeded to take immediate counsel with his mother
upon the altered aspect of affairs, not only as regarded Adéline and Eugène de Véron, but more
particularly himself, Edouard le Blanc.

Ten minutes had hardly passed by ordinary reckoning--barely one by Eugène de Véron's--when
his interview with the charming Adéline was rudely broken in upon by Madame le Blanc, a shrewd,
prudent woman of the world, albeit that in this affair she had somewhat lost her balance, tempted
by the glittering prize offered for her daughter's acceptance, and for a time apparently within
her reach. The mother's tone and manner were stern and peremptory. 'Have the kindness, Monsieur
Eugène de Véron, to bid Adéline adieu at once. I have a serious matter to talk over with you
alone. Come!'

Adéline was extremely startled at hearing her rich lover thus addressed, and the carnation
of her glowing cheeks faded at once to lily paleness, whilst Eugène's features flushed as quickly
to deepest crimson. He stammered out his willingness to attend madame immediately, and hastily
kissing Adéline's hand, followed the unwelcome intruder to another room.

'So, Monsieur Eugène,' began Madame le Blanc, 'this ridiculous wooing--of which, as you know,
I never heartily approved--is at an end. You are, I hear, to marry Mademoiselle de Mérode in
the early part of next week.'

'Madame le Blanc,' exclaimed the young man, 'what is it you are saying? I marry Mademoiselle
de Mérode next or any other week! I swear to you, by all that is true and sacred, that I will
be torn in pieces by wild horses before I break faith with'----

'Chut! chut!' interrupted Madame Le Blanc; 'you may spare your oaths. The sentimental bavardage
of boys in love will be lost upon me. You will, as you ought, espouse Mademoiselle de Mérode,
who is, I am told, a very superior and amiable person; and as to Adéline, she will console
herself. A girl with her advantages will always be able to marry sufficiently well, though
not into the family of a millionaire. But my present business with you, Monsieur Eugène de
Véron, relates to a different and much more important matter. Edouard has just confided to
me a very painful circumstance. You have induced him to commit not only a weak but a highly
criminal act: he has let you have, without Monsieur de Véron's consent or knowledge, two thousand
francs, upon the assurance that you would either reimburse that sum before his accounts were
balanced, or arrange the matter satisfactorily with your father.' 'But, Madame le Blanc'----

'Neither of which alternatives,' persisted that lady, 'I very plainly perceive, you will be
able to fulfil, unless you comply with Monsieur de Véron's wishes; and if you have any real
regard for Adéline, you will signify that acquiescence without delay, for her brother's ruin
would in a moral sense be hers also. Part of the money has, I understand, been squandered on
the presents you have made her: they shall be returned'----

'Madame le Blanc,' exclaimed the excited young man, 'you will drive me mad! I cannot, will
not give up Adéline; and as for the paltry sum of money you speak of--my money as it may fairly
be considered-that shall be returned to-morrow morning.'

Madame le Blanc did not speak for a few seconds, and then said: 'Very well, mind you keep your
promise. To-morrow is, you are aware, the Fête Dieu: we have promised Madame Carson of the
Grande Rue to pass the afternoon and evening at her house, where we shall have a good view
of the procession. Do you and Edouard call on us there, as soon as the affair is arranged.
I will not detain you longer at present. Adieu! Stay, stay--by this door, if you please. I
cannot permit you to see Adéline again, at all events till this money transaction is definitively
settled.'

'As you have now slept upon the proposal I communicated to you yesterday afternoon,' said M.
de Véron, addressing his son on the following morning at the conclusion of a silent breakfast--'you
may perhaps be prepared with a more fitting answer than you were then?'

Eugène warmly protested his anxiety to obey all his father's reasonable commands; but in this
case compliance was simply impossible, forasmuch as he, Eugène, had already irrevocably pledged
his word, his heart, his honour, in another quarter, and could not, therefore, nay, would not,
consent to poison his future existence by uniting himself with Mademoiselle de Mérode, for
whom, indeed, he felt the profoundest esteem, but not the slightest emotion of affection or regard.

'Your word, your honour, your heart--you should have added your fortune,' replied M. de Véron
with frigid, slowly-distilled, sarcastic bitterness--'are irrevocably engaged, are they, to
Adéline le Blanc, sister of my collecting clerk--daughter of a deceased sous-lieutenant of
the line'----

'Of the Imperial Guard,' interposed Eugène.

'Who aids her mother to eke out a scanty pension by embroidery'----

'Very superior, artistic embroidery,' again interjected the son.

'Be it so. I have not been quite so unobservant, Eugène, of certain incidents, as you and your
friends appear to have supposed. But time proves all things, and the De Mérodes and I can wait.'

Nothing further passed till M. de Véron rose to leave the room, when his son, with heightened
colour and trembling speech, although especially aiming at a careless indifference of tone
and manner, said: Sir--sir--one word, if you please. I have a slight favour to ask. 'Well,
let the bills be sent to me. If correct and fair, they shall be paid.'

'But--but, father, one, the chief item, is a debt of honour!'

'Indeed! Then your honour is pledged to others besides Mademoiselle la brodeuse? I have only
to say, that in that case I will not assist you.' Having said this, M. de Véron, quite regardless
of his son's angry expostulations, limped out of the apartment, and shortly after, the sound
of carriage-wheels announced his departure to Le Havre. Eugène, about an hour afterwards followed,
vainly striving to calm his apprehensions by the hope, that before the day for balancing Edouard's
accounts arrived, he should find his father in a more Christian-like and generous mood, or,
at any rate, hit upon some means of raising the money.

The day, like the gorgeous procession that swept through the crowded streets, passed slowly
and uninterruptedly away in M. de Véron's place of business, till about half-past four, when
that gentleman directed a porter, who was leaving the private office, to inform M. le Blanc,
that he, M. de Véron, wished to speak with him immediately. On hearing this order, Eugène looked
quickly up from the desk at which he was engaged, to his father's face; but he discerned nothing
on that impassive tablet either to dissipate or confirm his fear.

'Edouard le Blanc,' said M. de Véron with mild suavity of voice the instant the summoned clerk
presented himself, 'it so chances that I have no further occasion for your services'----

Sir!--sir!' gasped the terrified young man.

'You are,' continued M. de Véron, 'entitled to a month's salary, in lieu of that period of
notice--one hundred francs, with which you may credit yourself in the cash account you will
please to balance and bring me as quickly as possible.'

'Sir!--sir!' again bewilderedly iterated the panic-stricken clerk, as he turned distractedly
from father to son--'Sir!'

'My words are plain enough, I think,' observed M. de Véron, coolly tapping and opening his
snuff-box from which he helped himself to a hearty pinch. 'You are discharged with one hundred
francs, a month's salary in lieu of warning, in your pocket. You have now only to bring your
accounts; they are correct, of course; I, finding them so, sign your livret, and there is an
end of the matter.'

Edouard le Blanc made a step or two towards the door, and then, as if overwhelmed with a sense
of the hopelessness of further concealment, turned round, threw himself with a cry of terror
and despair at M. de Véron's feet, and poured forth a wild, sobbing, scarcely intelligible
confession of the fault or crime of which he had been guilty, through the solicitations of
M. Eugène, who had, he averred, received every farthing of the amount in which he, Edouard
le Blanc, acknowledged himself to be a defaulter.

'Yes!--yes!' exclaimed the son; 'Edouard gave the money into my hands, and if there is any
blame, it is mine alone.'

M. de Véron listened with a stolid, stony apathy to all this, save for a slight glimmer of
triumph that, spite of himself, shone out at the corners of his half-closed eyes. When the
young man had ceased sobbing and exclaiming, he said: 'You admit, Edouard le Blanc, that you
have robbed me of nearly two thousand francs, at, you say, the solicitation of my son--an excuse,
you must be aware, of not the slightest legal weight; no more than if your pretty sister, Mademoiselle
Adéline, who, I must be permitted to observe, is not altogether, I suspect, a stranger to this
affair----Hear me out, Messieurs, if you please: I say your excuse has no more legal validity,
than if your sister had counselled you to commit this felony. Now, mark me, young man: it is
just upon five o'clock. At half-past seven precisely, I shall go before a magistrate, and cause
a warrant to be issued for your apprehension. To-morrow morning, consequently, the brother
of Mademoiselle le Blanc will either be an incarcerated felon, or, which will suit me just
as well, a proclaimed fugitive from justice.'

'One moment--one word, for the love of Heaven, before you go!' exclaimed Eugène. 'Is there
any mode, any means whereby Edouard may be rescued from this frightful, this unmerited calamity--this
irretrievable ruin?'

'Yes,' rejoined M. de Véron, pausing for an instant on the outer threshold, 'there is one mode,
Eugène, and only one. What it is, you do not require to be told. I shall dine in town to-day;
at seven, I shall look in at the church of Notre Dame, and remain there precisely twenty minutes.
After that, repentance will be too late.'

Eugène was in despair, for it was quite clear that Adéline must be given up--Adéline, whose
myriad charms and graces rose upon his imagination in tenfold greater lustre than before, now
that he was about to lose her for ever! But there was plainly no help for it; and after a brief,
agitated consultation, the young men left the office to join Madame and Mademoiselle le Blanc
at the Widow Carson's, in the Grande Rue, or Rue de Paris, as the only decent street in Havre-de-Grâce
was at that time indifferently named, both for the purpose of communicating the untoward state
of affairs, and that Eugène might take a lingering, last farewell of Adéline.

Before accompanying them thither, it is necessary to say a few words of this Madame Carson,
who is about to play a very singular part in this little drama. She was a gay, well-looking,
symmetrically-shaped young widow, who kept a confectioner's shop in the said Grande Rue, and
officiated as her own dame du comptoir. Her good-looks, coquettishly-gracious smiles, and unvarying
good temper, rendered her establishment much more attractive--it was by no means a brilliant
affair in itself--than it would otherwise have been. Madame Carson was, in a tacit, quiet kind
of way, engaged to Edouard le Blanc--that is to say, she intended marrying him as soon as their
mutual savings should justify such a step; and provided, also, that no more eligible offer
wooed her acceptance in the meantime. M. de Véron himself was frequently in the habit of calling,
on his way to or from Mon Séjour, for a pâté and a little lively badinage with the comely widow;
and so frequently, at one time, that Edouard le Blanc was half-inclined--to Madame Carson's
infinite amusement--to be jealous of the rich, though elderly merchant's formal and elaborate
courtesies. It was on leaving her shop that he had slipped and sprained his ankle. M. de Véron
fainted with the extreme pain, was carried in that state into the little parlour behind the
shop, and had not yet recovered consciousness when the apothecary, whom Madame Carson had despatched
her little waiting-maid-of-all-work in quest of, entered to tender his assistance. This is
all, I think, that needs be said, in a preliminary way, of Madame Carson.

Of course, the tidings brought by Eugène and Edouard very painfully affected Mademoiselle le
Blanc; but being a very sensible, as well as remarkably handsome young person, she soon rallied,
and insisted, quite as warmly as her mother did, that the sacrifice necessary to relieve Edouard
from the peril which environed him--painful, heartbreaking as that sacrifice might be--must
be submitted to without reserve or delay. In other words, that M. de Véron, junior, must consent
to espouse Mademoiselle de Mérode, and forthwith inform his father that he was ready to sign
the nuptial-contract that moment if necessary. Poor Eugène, who was really over head and ears
in love, and more so just then than ever, piteously lamented his own cruel fate, and passionately
denounced the tiger-heartedness of his barbarian father; but as tears and reproaches could
avail nothing in such a strait, he finally submitted to the general award, and agreed to announce
his submission to M. de Véron at the church of Notre Dame, not a moment later, both ladies
insisted, than five minutes past seven.

Madame Carson was not at home all this while. She had gone to church, and after devotions,
called on her way back on one or two friends for a little gossip, so that it wanted only about
a quarter to seven when she reappeared. Of course the lamentable story had to be told over
again, with all its dismal accompaniments of tears, sighs, and plaintive ejaculations; and
it was curious to observe, as the narrative proceeded, how the widow's charming eyes flashed
and sparkled, and her cheeks glowed with indignation, till she looked, to use Edouard le Blanc's
expression, 'ferociously' handsome. 'Le monstre!' she exclaimed, as Eugène terminated the sad
history, gathering up as she spoke the shawl and gloves she had just before put off; 'but I
shall see him at once: I have influence with this Monsieur de Véron.'

'Nonsense, Emilie,' said Madame le Blanc. 'You possess influence over Monsieur de Véron!'

'Certainly I do. And is that such a miracle?' replied Madame Carson with a demure glance at
Edouard le Blanc. Edouard looked somewhat scared, but managed to say: 'Not at all, certainly
not; but this man's heart is iron--steel.'

'We shall see,' said the fair widow, as she finished drawing on her gloves. 'La grande passion
is sometimes stronger than iron or steel: is it not Monsieur Eugène? At all events, I shall
try. He is in the church, you say. Very well, if I fail--but I am sure I shall not fail--I
return in ten minutes, and that will leave Mademoiselle Adéline's despairing lover plenty of
time to make his submission, if better may not be; and so au revoir, Mesdames et Messieurs.'

'What can she mean?' said Madame le Blanc as the door closed. 'I have noticed, once or twice
during the last fortnight, that she has made use of strange half-hints relative to Monsieur
de Véron.'

'I don't know what she can mean,' said Edouard le Blanc, seizing his hat and hurrying off;
'but I shall follow, and strive to ascertain.'

He was just in time to catch a glimpse of Madame Carson's skirts as they whisked round the
corner of the Rue St Jacques, and by quickening his speed, he saw her enter the church from
that street. Notre Dame was crowded; but Edouard le Blanc had no difficulty in singling out
M. de Véron, who was sitting in his accustomed chair, somewhat removed from the mass of worshippers,
on the left of the high altar; and presently he discerned Madame Carson gently and adroitly
making her way through the crowd towards him. The instant she was near enough, she tapped him
slightly on the shoulder. He turned quickly, and stared with a haughty, questioning glance
at the smiling confectioner. There was no grande passion in that look, Edouard felt quite satisfied,
and Madame Carson's conduct seemed more than ever unintelligible. She appeared to say something,
which was replied to by an impatient gesture of refusal, and M. de Véron turned again towards
the altar. Madame Carson next approached close to his chair, and bending down, whispered in
his ear, for perhaps a minute. As she did so, M. de Véron's body rose slowly up, involuntarily
as it were, and stiffened into rigidity, as if under the influence of some frightful spell.
Forcing himself at last, it seemed, to confront the whisperer, he no sooner caught her eye
than he reeled, like one struck by a heavy blow, against the pedestal of a saint, whose stony
features looked less white and bloodless than his own. Madame Carson contemplated the effect
she had produced with a kind of pride for a few moments, and then, with a slight but peremptory
wave of her hand, motioned him to follow her out of the sacred edifice. M. de Véron hastily,
though with staggering steps, obeyed; Edouard le Blanc crossing the church and reaching the
street just soon enough to see them both driven off in M. de Véron's carriage.

Edouard hurried back to the Grande Rue to report what he had witnessed; and what could be the
interpretation of the inexplicable scene, engrossed the inventive faculties of all there, till
they were thoroughly tired of their wild and aimless guesses. Eight o'clock chimed--nine--ten--and
they were all, Edouard especially, working themselves into a complete panic of undefinable
apprehension, when, to their great relief, M. de Véron's carriage drew up before the door.
The first person to alight was M. Bourdon, a notary of eminence; next M. de Véron, who handed
out Madame Carson; and all three walked through the shop into the back-apartment. The notary
wore his usual business aspect, and had in his hands two rolls of thickly-written parchment,
which he placed upon the table, and at once began to spread out. M. de Véron had the air of
a man walking in a dream, and subdued, mastered by some overpowering, nameless terror; while
Madame Carson, though pale with excitement, was evidently highly elated, and, to use a French
phrase, completely 'mistress of the situation.' She was the first to break silence.

'Monsieur de Véron has been kind enough, Edouard, to explain, in the presence of Monsieur Bourdon,
the mistake in the accounts he was disposed to charge you with to-day. He quite remembers,
now, having received two thousand francs from you, for which, in his hurry at the time, he
gave you no voucher. Is not that so, Monsieur de Véron?' she added, again fixing on the merchant
the same menacing look that Le Blanc had noticed in the church.

'Yes, yes,' was the quick reply of M. de Véron, who vainly attempted to look the astounded
clerk in the face. 'The mistake was mine. Your accounts are quite correct, Monsieur le Blanc;
and--and I shall be glad, of course, to see you at the office as usual.'

'That is well,' said Madame Carson; 'and now, Monsieur Bourdon, to business, if you please.
Those documents will not take so long to read as they did to write.'

The notary smiled, and immediately began reading a marriage-contract between Eugène de Véron
and Adéline le Blanc, by which it appeared that the union of those young persons was joyfully
acceded to by Jean Baptiste de Véron and Marie le Blanc, their parents--the said Jean Baptiste
de Véron binding himself formally to endow the bride and bridegroom jointly, on the day of
marriage, with the sum of 300,000 francs, and, moreover, to admit his son as a partner in the
business, thenceforth to be carried on under the name of De Véron & Son.

This contract was written in duplicate, and as soon as the notary had finished reading, Madame
Carson handed a pen to M. de Véron, saying in the same light, coquettish, but peremptory tone
as before: 'Now, Monsieur, quick, if you please: yours is the most important signature.' The
merchant signed and sealed both parchments, and the other interested parties did the same,
in silent, dumb bewilderment, broken only by the scratching of the pens and the legal words
repeated after the notary. 'We need not detain you longer, Messieurs, I believe,' said Madame
Carson. 'Bon soir, Monsieur de Véron,' she added, extending an ungloved hand to that gentleman,
who faintly touched it with his lips; 'you will hear from me to-morrow.'

'What is the meaning of all this?' exclaimed Eugène de Véron, the instant his father and the
notary disappeared. 'I positively feel as if standing upon my head!' A chorus of like interrogatories
from the Le Blancs assailed Madame Carson, whose ringing bursts of mirth mocked for a time
their impatience.

'Meaning, parbleu!' she at last replied, after pausing to catch breath. 'That is plain enough,
surely. Did you not all see with what empressement the poor man kissed my hand? There, don't
look so wretched, Edouard,' she added with a renewed outburst; 'perhaps I may have the caprice
to prefer you after all to an elderly millionaire--who knows? But come, let us try to be a
little calm and sensible. What I have done, good folks, I can as easily undo; and that being
the case, Monsieur Eugène must sign me a bond to-morrow morning for fifty thousand francs,
payable three days after his marriage. Is it agreed? Very well: then I keep these two parchments
till the said bond is executed; and now, my friends; good-night, for I, as you may believe,
am completely tired after all this benevolent fairy-work.'

The wedding took place on the next day but one, to the great astonishment of every one acquainted
with the two families. It was also positively rumoured that M. de Véron had proposed marriage
to Madame Carson, and been refused! Be this true or not, it was soon apparent that, from some
cause or other, M. de Véron's health and spirits were irretrievably broken down, and after
lingering out a mopish, secluded life of scarcely a twelvemonth's duration, that gentleman
died suddenly at Mon Séjour. A clause in his will bequeathed 20,000 francs to Madame Carson,
with an intimated hope, that it would be accepted as a pledge by that lady to respect, as she
hitherto had done, the honour of an ancient family.

This pledge to secrecy would no doubt have been kept, but that rumours of poisoning and suicide,
in connection with De Véron's death, having got abroad, the Procureur--Général ordered an investigation
to take place. The suspicion proved groundless; but the procès-verbal set forth, that on examining
the body of the deceased, there were discovered the letters 'I. de B.,' 'T. F.,' branded on
the front of the left shoulder; the two last, initials of 'Travaux Forces' (forced labour),
being large and very distinct. There could be no doubt, therefore, that the proud M. de Véron
was an escaped forçat; and subsequent investigation, which was not, however, very strongly
pressed, sufficiently proved that Jean Baptiste de Véron, the younger son of a high family,
had in very early youth been addicted to wild courses; that he had gone to the colonies under
a feigned name, to escape difficulties at home; and whilst at the Isle de Bourbon, had been
convicted of premeditated homicide at a gaming-house, and sentenced to perpetual imprisonment
with hard labour. Contriving to escape, he had returned to France, and by the aid of a considerable
legacy, commenced a prosperous mercantile career; how terminated, we have just seen. It was
by pure accident, or what passes for such in the world, that Madame Carson had arrived at a
knowledge of the terrible secret. When M. de Véron, after spraining his ankle, was carried
in a state of insensibility into the room behind her shop, she had immediately busied herself
in removing his neckcloth, unfastening his shirt, then a flannel one which fitted tightly round
the neck, and thus obtained a glimpse of the branded letters 'T. F.' With her customary quickness
of wit, she instantly replaced the shirts, neckcloth, &c., and carefully concealed the fatal
knowledge she had acquired, till an opportunity of using it advantageously should present itself.

The foregoing are, I believe, all the reliable particulars known of a story of which there
used to be half-a-hundred different versions flying about Le Havre. Edouard le Blanc married
Madame Carson, and subsequently became a partner of Eugène de Véron. It was not long, however,
before the business was removed to another and distant French seaport, where, for aught I know
to the contrary, the firm of 'De Véron and Le Blanc' flourishes to this day.

BETTING-OFFICES.

'Betting-shop' is vulgar, and we dislike vulgarity. 'Commission Office,' 'Racing Bank,' 'Mr
Hopposite Green's Office,' 'Betting-Office,'are the styles of announcement adopted by speculators
who open what low people call Betting-shops. The chosen designation is usually painted in gold
letter on a chocolate-coloured wire-gauze blind, impervious to the view. A betting-office may
display on its small show-board two bronzed plaster horses, rampant, held by two Ethiopian
figures, nude; or it may prefer making a show of cigars. Many offices have risen out of simple
cigar-shops. When this is the case, the tobacco business gives way, the slow trade and fast
profession not running well together. An official appearance is always considered necessary.
A partition, therefore, sufficiently high not to be peered over, runs midway across the shop,
surmounted with a rail. By such means, visions are suggested to the intelligent mind of desks,
clerks, and, if the beholder has sufficient imagination, of bankers' clerks. In the partition
is an enlarged pigeon-hole--not far off, may be supposed to lurk the hawk--through which are
received shillings, half-crowns; in fact, any kind of coin or notes, no sum appearing inadmissible.
The office is papered with a warm crimson paper, to make it snug and comfortable, pleasant
as a lounge, and casting a genial glow upon the proceedings.

