     Firmly persuaded that considerable benefit has already resulted
     from inculcating friendly advice to this oppressed people, and
     believing that the sentiments contained in the addresses of the
     former Conventions to the free blacks and other people of color
     in the United States cannot be too frequently repeated and
     enforced, we recommend to the consideration of the Societies, the
     propriety of a republication of those addresses by each society,
     and such communication and distribution thereof as may be best
     calculated to promote a beneficial effect.

     The Convention having been informed, that vessels are fitted out
     with cargoes for certain of the West Indian Islands, parts of
     which cargoes are their disposed of, and, with the proceeds,
     slaves are purchased and carried to other of the said Islands,
     and sold; also that other vessels are loaded with rum, for
     certain ports in Africa, with the proceeds of which, we have
     reason to believe, the natives are purchased and afterwards
     conveyed and sold as slaves in the West Indies. We recommend a
     strict enquiry to be made into the conduct of persons thus
     offending against the dictates of humanity and the honor and
     interest of our country, that proper measures, to punish and
     prevent such nefarious and disgraceful practices, may be adopted.

     We have thought it expedient to confine our attention at present,
     principally to carrying into effect the measures heretofore
     advised. Let us, however, whilst prudent and cautious, continue
     to be firm and sincere. Let us embrace every opportunity which
     may offer for ameliorating the condition of slaves so far as the
     laws, under which we severally act, will permit us to proceed.
     Let us do nothing which may justly draw forth the censure of our
     country, but act, in all things, with that moderation and
     propriety which have heretofore distinguished the Abolition
     Societies.

     We confidently trust, that when the storms, by which the world is
     at present agitated, shall have subsided, the light of truth will
     break through the dark gloom of oppression--cruelty and injustice
     will not only hear, but obey, the voice of reason and religion;
     and in these United States the practice of the people will be
     conformable to their declaration--"That all men are born equally
     free, and have an unalienable right to Liberty."[6]

     To                                 Society, &c.

     The Convention of delegates, from the different Abolition
     Societies established in the United States, feel a pleasure in
     informing you, that their deliberations have been conducted with
     much harmony and satisfaction to themselves.

     They, however, deeply regret, that so few of the Societies have
     been induced to send Representatives to the Convention.

