"The Tehama House, on the waterfront at California and Sansome, was the swell hotel for army
and navy people and all the Spanish rancheros when they came to town. You couldn't keep even
your thoughts to yourself in that house, for it had thin board sidings and cloth and paper
partitions, but it had lots of style, and Rafael set a great table. They moved it over to Montgomery
and Broadway to make room for the Bank of California, and the fire caught it there. The What
Cheer House," the old man's eyes brightened, "was on Sacramento and Leidesdorff, and that's
where we miners went, if we could get in. Woodward was a queer chap. Took you in whether you
could pay or not. But it was only a man's hotel. There wasn't a woman allowed about the place.
He had the only library in town and everybody was welcome to use it. I've often seen Mark Twain
and Bret Harte reading at the table."

"And the sacks?" queried the Bostonian.

But the old man had leaned back on the bench and his eyes wandered over the green grass and
trees of the square. "It's much prettier than it used to be," he admitted, "but nothing happens
here now. The Chinese children fly kites and the unemployed loaf on the benches and the grass,
and I'm one of them. I wish you could have seen it in the early days." His eyes kindled with
excitement. "It was only a barren hillside, but there was always something doing then. All
the town meetings were held here in the open air and all the parades ended here for the speeches.
The biggest celebration was in 1850, when the October steamer, flying all her flags, brought
the news that California was admitted to the Union. We went wild, for we had waited for that
word for more than a year. Every ship in the harbor displayed all her bunting and at night
every house was as brilliant as candles and coal oil could make it. Bonfires blazed on all
the hills and the islands and we had music and dancing all over the town 'til morning."

He paused in reminiscence. "But it wasn't so gay that moonlight night, the next February, when
we hung Jenkins. He was a Sidney Cove and had just stole a safe, but that was the least of
his crimes and of the whole gang. When we Vigilantes heard the taps on the firebell here in
the Plaza, we gathered in front of the committee rooms. Nobody was excited; we just had to
drive out the Sidney Coves and put an end to crime. We marched Jenkins here and hung him over
there to the beam on the south end of the Custom House. Forty of us pulled on the rope, while
a thousand more stood 'round as solemn as a prayer meeting to give us moral support and shoulder
the responsibility. It wasn't no joke hanging a man, but it had to be done, if decent men was
to live here."

He shook off his depression. "Everybody was in the Plaza sometime in the day, and once a month
when Telegraph Hill signaled a steamer, everybody was here."

"Telegraph Hill? I never heard of it," he cast an accusing glance in my direction.

"It belongs to forty-nine," I retorted.

"All the shops closed immediately," continued the miner, "and Postmaster Geary was the most
important man in town. The post-office was a block up the hill at Clay and Pike Streets, but
the lines from the windows stretched down into the Plaza, and over among the tents and chaparral
on California Street Hill. Men stood for hours, sometimes all night, in the pouring rain, and
many a time I sold my place for ten dollars, and even twenty, to some fellow who had less patience
or less time than I.

"But you should have been here on election day in fifty-one." The miner threw back his head
and laughed aloud. "Colonel Jack Hays was running for sheriff," he resumed, "and his opponent
hired a band to play in front of his store here on the Plaza as an advertisement. It worked
fine! He was polling all the votes and the Colonel was about out of the running, 'til he got
on his horse that he'd used on the Texas ranges and came cavorting into the square. He showed
'em some fancy turns they weren't used to and kept it up 'til the polls closed."

"Did he win?" I asked excitedly.

"Well, I guess he did! Hands down. But a sheriff ain't no use when the laws won't stick. That's
why we had to have the Vigilance Committees."

I arose. That was a long story and the afternoon was fast going. My companion took the hint.
He extended his hand and grasped the old miner's heartily.

"I thank you," he said, "you have opened up a new epoch to me and I shall not soon forget you.
I shall come again and the place will have lost much of its interest if you are not here."

"Oh, I'll be here," laughed the old fellow. "It's home to me."

Telegraph Hill of Unique Fame

"Would you like to go up 'crazy owld, daisy owld Telegraft Hill'," I asked in a softened mood
as we moved away. "There is just about time."

"Indeed I should," he answered. "Can we take in some of the other things you archaeologists
were mentioning on the way? I don't want to miss anything."

"We must leave the Parrott and Niantic buildings until some other day, but you can see the
Montgomery Block if you wish," and we turned down Washington Street. "It was built on piles,
by General Halleck's law firm. William Tecumseh Sherman's bank was nearby, but I suppose most
of Boston's business men were generals-in-chief of the United States Army."

My irony was ignored and as we reached the corner of Montgomery, I continued: "It was on this
spot that James King of William, editor of the 'Bulletin,' was shot down by James P. Casey,
the ballot-box stuffer. The newspaper office was at the other end of the block on Merchant
Alley, and that evening's editorial accused Casey of electing himself supervisor and stated
that he was an ex-convict from Sing Sing. Within an hour after the paper appeared, Mr. King
was carried dying to his room in the same building. It was this murder that brought the second
Vigilance Committee into existence. While the immense funeral cortège, the largest San Francisco
has ever known, escorted the body of Mr. King up this street toward Lone Mountain Cemetery,
Casey and Cora, another criminal, were hung in front of the Vigilance, Headquarters on Sacramento
near Front."

"You called it Fort Gunnybags ?" he queried.

"Yes, it was so named from the precautionary bulwark of sand-filled sacks piled up in a hollow
square in front to protect the entrance. A bronze plate marked the old building before the fire."

We turned into Columbus Avenue. "Your beloved Stevenson used to live at No. 8, there on the
gore where the Italian Bank is," I said. "We are coming to the Latin Quarter, a section that
has always been given over to foreigners, for in early days 'Sidneyville,' peopled by ticket-of-leave
men from the penal colony of Australia, and 'Little Chile' of the Peruvians and Chileans, clustered
close around the base of Telegraph Hill."

"The very place Stevenson would choose, where life was flavored with history and the mystery
of the foreign. But where are you going?" he exclaimed, stopping short as I began to ascend
the steps by which Kearny Street climbs the hill.

"I thought you wished to see the site of the Marine Signal Station." I looked down at him from
the fourth stair with feigned surprise.

"I do, indeed, but--can't we go up by a funicular and come down this way?" he compromised.
"My Boston calves protest."

"Oh well, we can go by the level a little farther, but I thought you liked the 'flavor of the
foreign.' Anyway, we ought to see Earl Cummings' old man," I remembered.

"What is his fatherland and his business?" he asked as his eye traveled over the shop signs
"Sanguinetti, Farmacia Italiana," "Molinari & Cariani, Grocers;" "Oliva & Brizzolara, Real Estate."

"His birthplace is the World Universal, and his profession-leading us back to nature," I answered.
Then, as we passed the spick and span concrete façade of the Patronal Church of St. Francis,
with its rear of burned brick: "This is the direct descendent of the old Mission," I told him,
"the first Parish Church of San Francisco. It was gutted by the fire and is being very gradually
restored. A notice within administers an implied rebuke: 'The First Erected--the Last Restored.'"

We paused at the iron fence of the small green triangle cut off from Washington Square by the
slant of Columbus Avenue, and peered at the fine bronze figure of a sinewy old man stooping
to drink from his hand on the edge of the little pool.

"Mr. Cummings' message to his universal brothers," he commented. "None could fail to be refreshed
by it. My strength is renewed. Let us ascend," and he turned up Filbert Street.

Dark-eyed women lounged in the doorways of the houses that cling to the perpendicular sides
of the hill. "The Italian pervades," I volunteered, "but there are Greek, Sicilians, Spaniards
and French." The whole was reminiscent of the South of Europe, but the Neapolitan scene of
cleated walks and steep steps lacked the enlivening color notes of the homeland.

"Not even a red shirt on a clothes line," I regretted, but a flood of soft voweled Italian
from a woman in a third story window, musically answered by a man in the street below, brought
consolation.

"The opera's own tongue," the Bostonian commented.

"Well, you leave it to me," finished the man in the street.

"Sure, Mike, I will," responded the woman.

My companion halted in consternation.

"We make American citizens of them all," I asserted.

"Les petits enfants aussi," I added as a child ran past, shouting a response in irreproachable
English to the Parisian command of her mother.

We turned through the rude stone wall into Pioneer Park and along the unkept paths shaded by
eucalyptus, cypress and acacia trees and came upon the open height where the mountain-hemmed
bay lay in broad expanse before us, dotted with islands and with ferries streaking their way
across its blue-gray surface.

"Wonderful," he exclaimed under his breath.

   '"O, Telegraft Hill, she sits proud as a Queen,
   And th' docks lie below in th' glare,'"

I quoted from Wallace Irwin.

He lowered his gaze to the numerous wharves running out into the water, with teams appearing
and disappearing at the entrances of the covered docks, like lines of busy ants.

   "'And th' bay runs beyant her, all purple and green
   Wid th' gingerbread island out there,'"

I continued the quotation.

"What are those terraced buildings?" he queried.

"It has been the military prison for years. It is Alcatraz Island."

He looked his inquiry.

"Spanish for Pelican," I answered, seating myself on a rock. "Ayala, the captain of the 'San
Carlos,' the first ship to enter the bay, named it from the large number of the birds he found
on it, and the big island to the right that looks like a portion of the main land is Angel
Island, abbreviated from Ayala's Isla de Nuestra Señora de los Angeles."

"And Goat Island?" he questioned as he threw himself down on the grass.

"Yerba Buena," I corrected. "The other name was colloquially applied when Nathan Spear, being
given some goats and kids by a Yankee skipper, put them over there. There were several thousand
on the island in forty-nine, but the Americans killed them all off by night in spite of Spear's
protests."

"Not all of them," he denied as he shied a stick at a white head reaching from below for a
grassy clump.

   "'And th' goats and chicks and brickbats and sticks
   Is joombled all over the face of it,
   Av Telegraft Hill, Telegraft Hill,
   Crazy owld, daisy owld Telegraft Hill,'"

I laughed.

