THE

OAHU COLLEGE

AT THE

SANDWICH ISLANDS.

BOSTON: PRESS OF T. R. MARVIN, 42 CONGRESS STREET. 1856.

THE OAHU COLLEGE.

In the year 1841, a school was commenced, for the children of missionaries, at Punahou, near
Honolulu, Sandwich Islands. Five year ago, it was opened to others besides the children of
missionaries. The number of pupils has varied from thirty to sixty, and the whole number of
pupils, up to September, 1854, was one hundred and twenty-two. In May, 1853, the Hawaiian Government
incorporated twelve persons, all of them except one either then or formerly connected with
the mission, as a corporate body by the name of "The Trustees of the Punahou School and Oahu
College." It is probable that the legal name of the institution will be shortened, and that
it will be called simply the "Oahu College."

The charter recognizes the design of the institution to be "the training of youth in the various
branches of a Christian education, teaching them sound and useful knowledge." It further states,
that, "as it is reasonable that the Christian education should be in conformity to the general
views of the founders and patrons of the institution, no course of instruction shall be deemed
lawful in said institution, which is not accordant with the principles of Protestant Evangelical
Christianity, as held by that body of Protestant Christians in the United States of America,
which originated the Christian mission to the Islands, and to whose labors and benevolent contributions
the people of these Islands are so greatly indebted." There is also an additional security
for the institution in the following article, namely,--"Whenever a vacancy shall occur in said
corporation, it shall be the duty of the Trustees to fill the same with all reasonable and
convenient dispatch. And every new election shall be immediately made known to the Prudential
Committee of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and be subject to their
approval or rejection, and this power of revision shall be continued to the American Board
for twenty years from the date of this charter."

The Sandwich Islands Christianized.

The effort to christianize the Sandwich Islands was begun in the year 1820, and has succeeded
beyond any similar efforts recorded in history. In the year 1853, a little more than thirty
years from the commencement of the mission, the Board was able to make proclamation in the
Annual Report, that the people of the Sandwich Islands had become a Christian nation. The proofs
then adduced of this fact were beyond all controversy; such as entitled the Hawaiian nation
to the Christian name, if any people on earth might claim it; though without that intellectual
development and social culture, which enter so deeply into the modern idea of civilization.
But even in respect to these things a vast work had been accomplished.

It was evident to the Prudential Committee, as early as the year 1848, that the time had come
for a change of some sort in the relations of the missionaries to the people of the Islands
and to the Board. They saw that new and additional motives must be presented to induce the
married missionaries to remain at the Islands, or the greater part of them might feel constrained
to return to this country within a few years, to make provision for their children. This was
not owing simply, nor chiefly, to the number and age of their children, (for such a result
was nowhere seen in the older missions elsewhere,) but to the novel and remarkable relations,
at that time, of the mission to the people of the Sandwich Islands.

The problem, as then presented, was, how to give scope to the parental feelings in missionaries,
without increasing burdens and expenses that could not be borne; though it soon appeared that
there was really a higher problem to be solved, and one that was novel in missions, namely,
how to bring the mission itself, as such, to a termination, dissolving its relations to the
Board, and merging its members in the newly created Christian community. The first problem
stated came first in the order of time, and it involved the solution of the other. It was,
how to convert the Islands into the home of the missionaries, (which the peculiar relation
of the Islands to the commercial world then rendered possible,) and the missionaries into citizens
and pastors. This was effected, so far as the action of the Prudential Committee was concerned,
by a series of resolutions made public in the Report of the Board for the year 1849. The response
of the missionaries was in general favorable, though it required five years was complete the
arrangement. The case was unprecedented; there was no experience; every step had to be considered
in its principles, its equity, and its expediency. The transition was at length effected, and
the mission was merged in the general Christian community of the Islands. The meeting of the
mission in May, 1853, was its last meeting in its associated, corporate character as a mission,--responsible,
as such, to the Board, controlling, as such, the operations of its members. The relations of
the ministry and churches of the Sandwich Islands towards the Board and its patrons, and towards
other foreign missions and the Christian church at large, then became those of an independent
Christian community. The salaries of the native pastors, the cost of church buildings, and
the greater part of the cost of schools, were to be met (as in fact they have been) by the
natives. So was the support of Hawaiian missionaries, whether sent to Micronesia, or to the
Marquesas Islands. It was only in part, however, that the natives could support their foreign
pastors. The Board, in this new relation of things, would have to sustain to the new Christian
community a relation like that, which the Home Missionary Society sustains to the Christian
community in Oregon or California; and it might be necessary to continue this relation for
some time.

Native College at Lahainaluna.

The first important step taken at the Islands after the mission had responded, in the year
1849, to the proposals of the Prudential Committee, was the transfer, by the Board, of the
native Seminary or College at Lahainaluna to the Hawaiian Government. This is wholly for natives.
The transfer was made on the condition, that the institution should continue to cultivate sound
literature and science, and not allow to be taught religious doctrines contrary to those heretofore
inculcated by the mission. In case of the non-fulfillment of the conditions, the whole property,
with any additions and improvements made upon the premises, was to revert to the Board. The
government have since sustained two clerical professors obtained from the company of missionaries,
and the institution answers the purpose of a College for the native community. It is not adapted,
however, nor can it be, to the wants of the foreign community.

Necessity for the College at Punahou.

The Oahu College is open to natives speaking the English language; but it is especially designed
for pupils from that increasing and important portion of the Hawaiian community, which is of
foreign origin. This of course includes those who have heretofore constituted the mission.
These, with their families, must be regarded as in the highest degree essential to the religious
welfare of the Islands. Their children, now at the Islands in a course of education, not including
those too young for school, nor those in the colleges and schools of the United States, number
one hundred and forty-five. To remove even a considerable portion of these for education to
the United States, would be at great expense and inconvenience, and there is a growing conviction
among the parents, that their children must be chiefly educated there. "They can there," says
one of the most experienced of the parents, "be under parental guardianship and home influences;
and this will help to retain both parents and children in the field. The education will be
less perfect than in the United States, but it will fit them better, in some respects, to labor
in the land of their birth, than an education in a foreign country. The parents will seek an
education for their children elsewhere, if it be not provided for them at the Islands; but
it is believed that most of them will retain their children there, if a college be there provided."

The number of foreign residents and their descendants is increasing at the Sandwich Islands.
An intelligent glance at the future will show, that this enterprising community is destined
to exert a very commanding influence in that increasingly important part of the world, and
that the necessity of its being well educated cannot be over-estimated. The foreign community
now springing up at the Sandwich Islands will inevitably shape the character and destiny of
the whole northern Pacific. The missionary part of this community has now the vantage ground
as regards all good influences, and with the divine blessing is able to mould the literary
and religious institutions of the Hawaiian nation. Religion, just now, has a strong hold on
those Islands. The present is, therefore, a favorable time to institute a College, and put
it into a working condition.

The necessity for an institution, such as it is proposed to make of the Oahu College, is one
of the most obvious and interesting facts now presented to our view in that part of the world.

1. The College is essential to the development and continued existence of the Hawaiian nation.
It is so because the missionary portion is really the palladium of the nation, and because
a College is essential to that part of the community. The religious foreign community cannot
otherwise long continue to perform its functions. It must have the means of liberally educating
its children on the ground. Without a College, its moral, social and civil influence will tend
constantly to decay. This most precious Christian influence, now rooted on the Islands, now
no longer exotic, needs only the proper culture to perpetuate itself. The cheapest thing we
can do for the Islands and for that part of the world, is to furnish this culture. It is better
to educate our ministry there, than to send it thither from these remote shores. Indeed we
are shut up to this, as our main policy. The providential indications are perfectly clear.
Through the grace of God and the gospel of his Son, all the means, excepting such as are pecuniary,
for perpetuating Christianity at the Islands, are already there. Mr. Armstrong, the Minister
of Instruction at the Islands, writing to one of the Secretaries of the American Board under
date of January 2, 1856, bears this remarkable testimony:--

"During the year 1855, just closed," he says, "I visited all the Islands, and every missionary
station, in the course of my official duty, and had good opportunities for seeing how the brethren
conduct the affairs of their respective stations, and the success that has crowned their labors.
I found them all at their posts, hard at work, watching for souls, and promoting the welfare
of their people in various ways. As a class, they are very laborious and self-denying, and
the advancement of their people in knowledge, industry, civilization and religion, is the best
evidence of their success. I have lived for weeks on weeks among the natives, lodging with
them in their huts, partaking of their homely fare and sleeping on their mats; and the more
I see of them, the more I bless God for what he has done for them. I do not believe there is
a community on earth, of the same number, more entirely pervaded by the blessed gospel. In
the remotest corners of the land, I find a Bible and Hymn-book in nearly every house, if there
was nothing else."

We may say of the faithful men, who, ceasing to be missionaries in the technical sense, are
now laboring as pastors of churches, superintendents of education, or professors in the native
College, or as physicians, teachers, editors, or Christian merchants:--"Except these abide
in the ship, ye cannot be saved." Had the great body of these men left the Islands in the year
1848, the native government could not long have survived the catastrophe; and now, and for
years to come, they will be, under God, the most effectual safeguard the Hawaiian Government
and people can possibly have. Remaining there, with their numerous and healthy families of
children, and furnished with facilities for educating those children, the government, the nation,
the Islands will continue, with the ordinary blessing of Heaven, to be Christian, evangelical,
a glorious monument of the triumphs of the gospel, a light enlightening the benighted groups
lying far to the westward, and a cause for admiring gratitude to the whole Christian world!

Surely results like these are worth a great outlay for their preservation; but this cannot
be effectually done without the speedy institution of a College at the Islands, where a portion
of the children of foreign parents, and some of the more promising of the native youth, may
receive that liberal education which is deemed so important in this country.

2. There is another and highly interesting view of the subject. This Christian community at
the Sandwich Islands,--mixed in blood, but one in Christ,--should be regarded as a centre of
light and influence for the large number of inhabited but benighted Islands scattered over
the far and vast WEST of the Pacific Ocean. This missionary enterprise in the insular world
beyond, besides its intrinsic importance, is among the necessary means, by its reacting influence,
of raising the Hawaiian churches to the point of self-support and self-control; and its value,
in this view, is already delightfully evident. The pecuniary means for supporting missionaries
in Micronesia who are sent from the United States, must of course come in great measure from
this country; but the support of missionaries and native assistants drawn from the Hawaiian
churches, (as well as much of the labor connected with the details of the business,) may be
thrown upon the 'Hawaiian Missionary Society,' which is independent of the American Board;
and no small portion of the missionaries may at length be obtained from among the alumni of
the Oahu College. Dr. Gulick, one of the first missionaries to Micronesia, is the son of a
missionary at the Sandwich Islands, though educated in the United States; and the missionary
children at the Islands are associated together to provide among themselves the means for his
support. When the missionary ship, to be called the 'Morning Star,' which has been requested
for the mission in Micronesia, is actually in those seas, the proposed institution for educating
missionaries inured to the people and climate, will become a still more valuable auxiliary.

Thus we see, that the reasonable endowment of the Oahu College will be a good use of money
for the upbuilding of Christ's kingdom at the Sandwich Islands, and for extending that kingdom
through the islands of the great ocean beyond.

Funds and Buildings of the College.

The value of the property now belonging to the Oahu College, derived chiefly through the American
Board, is estimated as follows:

     Three hundred acres of land,       $9,000
     College building, two stories,      7,000
     Two dwelling houses,                6,000
     Twelve lodging rooms,               2,000
     Dining room, kitchen, etc.,         1,000
     Out-houses,                           500
     Farming implements, herds, etc.,    1,500
                                       -------
     Total,                            $27,000

The land on which the buildings stand has an excellent and valuable spring of water, sufficient
to irrigate it. There are one hundred acres in this lot, all enclosed by a good stone wall,
and in part under cultivation. Another hundred acres adjoining, is also enclosed with a stone
wall, and is devoted to pasturage. Another hundred acres of woodland lies about two miles distant.
The buildings will suffice for the present.

An observer, familiar with the college edifices of the United States, may hardly be able to
recognize a College in what he sees at Punahou. But what there is surpasses what were the visible
beginnings of either Harvard, or Yale. Until the present time, moreover, there has been only
a preparatory school. The first college class, and that a small one, commences the present
year. A number of young men, once at Punahou, who would perhaps have been in the College had
there been one, are at Williams, Yale, or some other of our American Colleges. Some have completed
their preparations for life's business, and are preachers, missionaries, merchants, or connected
with the government of the Islands.

The Endowment.

The cost of living at the Sandwich Islands has been materially increased by the settlement
and mines of California. Just at present, it may not be easy to bring the expenses of a family
at Punahou within the bounds recommended for the salaries of the officers of College. The arrangement
for salaries should be based, however, on what we know to be the general course of things in
the world. Fifteen hundred dollars, with the use of a house, is thought not to be too large
a salary for the President of the Oahu College; and twelve hundred dollars, with the use of
a house, for a Professor. The American Board will pay these two salaries for the years 1856
and 1857.

The Trustees propose to raise the sum of fifty thousand dollars. This is not too large a beginning.
Of this sum the Hawaiian government engages to give ten thousand dollars, or one fifth part;
on condition that the remaining forty thousand dollars be raised before July 6, 1858, and that
the King have the right of nominating two of the twelve trustees of the College. The Prudential
Committee have voted to subscribe five thousand dollars towards the endowment, on behalf of
the American Board, payable in the year 1858.

It should be understood that, excepting the duty of approval or disapproval in respect to the
election of members on the Board of Trustees, laid upon the American Board by the Charter for
the space of twenty years, that Board has no connection whatever with the College, or control
of its proceedings. The College is an independent institution, sustaining no other relation
to the Board, than it does to every other benefactor.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Colleges of New England had generally some benevolent patron provided for them by Divine
Providence;--a Harvard, a Yale, a Dartmouth, a Brown, a Bowdoin, a Williams; and the Colleges
very properly took and embalmed their names in memory of an enlightened and refined Christian
community. These provided the general endowment. Many liberal men also funded particular professorships;
or gave funds for the education of young men of talents and character, without the means of
obtaining a liberal education. May the Lord raise up such benefactors for the Oahu College.
That has grown, as the New England Colleges did, out of a great religious movement and the
wonderful blessing of God on that movement. It has a religious object, and is controlled by
a religious influence. The funds have every practicable guard from perversion. The permanent
necessity for such an institution is apparent in the certainty of a permanent, rising, influential
community on those admirably situated Islands. The independence of the Hawaiian Nation,--which,
under present circumstances, is most favorable to its development,--is guaranteed by the United
States, Great Britain and France; and the presumption of its falling under the dominion of
a power foreign to us, is too small to deserve notice; and the influence of the College itself,
as already described, will be one of the most effectual guards against such a result. There
is not a finer climate in all the world. Were it true, that the native population is still
wasting away, the effect of corrupt commerce in old heathen times, still greater would be the
need of such an institution. A flourishing community of some kind at the Sandwich Islands,
then certainly will be; and the religious influences now at the Islands will be as available
for that community, as hereafter developed, with whatever elements, as it will be for the one
now existing.

A number of gentlemen have kindly consented, at the request of the Prudential Committee of
the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, acting for the Trustees of the College,
to take charge of the funds contributed in this country for the Oahu College, (where the donors
do not direct them to be remitted directly to the Trustees at the Islands;) and they will invest
such funds in the United States, and cause the interest to be remitted annually to the officer
of the corporation legally authorized to receive it. The Trustees for the Fund, appointed in
the first instance by the Prudential Committee, will fill the vacancies occurring in their
own number; and they will be authorized to transfer the investment of the funds to the Sandwich
Islands whenever they and the Trustees of the College concur in the opinion, that this can
be safely and advantageously effected.

The following gentlemen compose the Trustees for the Funds to be invested in the United States;
namely,--

     HENRY HILL, Esq., of Boston, Mass.
     PELATIAH PERIT, Esq., of New York city.
     Gen. WILLIAM WILLIAMS, of Norwich, Conn.
     Hon. THOMAS W. WILLIAMS, of New London, Conn.
     HENRY P. HAVEN, Esq., of New London, Conn.
     JAMES HUNNEWELL, Esq., of Charlestown, Mass.
     WILLIAM E. DODGE, Esq., of New York city.
     ABNER KINGMAN, Esq., of Boston, Mass.

Boston, August 1856.

At a meeting of the Trustees of Oahu College, held at Honolulu, Oct. 27, 1856, the following
resolutions were adopted with reference to the appointment of the Trustees for the Funds:

Resolved, 1.

       *       *       *       *       *

The President of the College is now in this country to act for the Board of Trustees, under
the following commission:

                         Honolulu, Sandwich Islands, Feb. 26, 1857.

Know all persons to whom these presents may come, that the Rev. Edward Griffin Beckwith, President
of Oahu College, is duly appointed and authorized by the Board of Trustees of this Institution
to act as their agent in procuring funds, instructors, and books for the same; and to promote
its general interests in all such ways as may be in his power, during his contemplated visit
to the United States.

To this end, the Trustees of the College hereby bespeak for him the kind regards and co-operation
of all the friends of education and religion with whom he may meet during his mission.

                                  R. ARMSTRONG,

                                          Sec'y of Board of Trustees.

At a meeting of the Trustees for the Fund, held in Boston, May 28, 1857, it was

Resolved, That the Rev. E. G. Beckwith, President of Oahu College, now in this country for
the purpose of obtaining an endowment for that now and important Institution at the Sandwich
Islands, be earnestly commended, by the Trustees for the Fund it is proposed to raise for the
College in this country, to the liberal patronage of those who would promote the cause of education
at the Islands, and thus give stability and perpetuity to the civil and Christian institutions
which have been so successfully introduced into that part of the world; with the understanding,
that the investment of the Fund be made under the direction of the aforesaid Trustees residing
in the United States.

                                ABNER KINGMAN, Clerk.

The following is the form of subscription, which it is proposed to circulate among the friends
of this enterprise:

We, the undersigned, subscribe the several sums set to our respective names, towards a Fund
for the endowment of the Oahu College, in the Sandwich Islands, which Fund is to be invested
under the direction of a Board of Trustees in the United States appointed for this purpose
by the Trustees of the College; and the income arising therefrom to be annually appropriated
to the support of said institution. Provided always, that no portion of said subscriptions,
or any of the income arising therefrom, shall be used for the promotion of any system or course
of education not in accordance with the Sixth Article of the present Charter of the said College.

       *       *       *       *       *

HENRY HILL, Esq., of Boston, Mass., Chairman of the Trustees for the Fund, is Treasurer of
said Board of Trustees, and all remittances for the College can be made to him, at his office,
118 Milk St.

Boston, June 1, 1857.

