I feel as if I must stop here with the story half told. Dickenson's narrative, when I finished
it, left behind it a fresh, sweet cheerfulness, as if one had been actually touching the living
baby with its fair little body and milky breath; but if I were to try to reproduce the history
of the famished men and women of the crew during the months that followed, I should but convey
to you a dull and dreary horror.

You yourselves can imagine what the journey on foot along the bleak coast in winter, through
tribe after tribe of hostile savages, must have been to delicately nurtured men and women,
naked but for a piece of raw deerskin and utterly without food save for the few nauseous berries
or offal rejected by the Indians. In their ignorance of the coast they wandered farther and
farther out of their way into those morasses which an old writer calls "the refuge of all unclean
birds and the breeding-fields of all reptiles." Once a tidal wave swept down into a vast marsh
where they had built their fire, and air and ground slowly darkened with the swarming living
creatures, whirring, creeping about them through the night, and uttering gloomy, dissonant
cries. Many of these strange companions and some savages found their way to the hill of oyster-shells
where the crew fled, and remained there for the two days and nights in which the flood lasted.

Our baby accepted all fellow-travellers cheerfully; made them welcome, indeed. Savage, slave,
and beast were his friends alike, his laugh and outstretched hands were ready for them all.
The aged man, too, Dickenson tells us, remained hopeful and calm, even when the slow-coming
touch of death had begun to chill and stiffen him, and in the presence of the cannibals assuring
his companions cheerfully of his faith that they would yet reach home in safety. Even in that
strange, forced halt, when Mary Dickenson could do nothing but stand still and watch the sea
closing about them, creeping up and up like a visible death, the old man's prayers and the
baby's laugh must have kept the thought of her far home very near and warm to her.

They escaped the sea to fall into worse dangers. Disease was added to starvation. One by one
strong men dropped exhausted by the way, and were left unburied, while the others crept feebly
on; stout Jonathan Dickenson taking as his charge the old man, now almost a helpless burden.
Mary, who, underneath her gentle, timid ways, seems to have had a gallant heart in her little
body, carried her baby to the last, until the milk in her breast was quite dried and her eyes
grew blind, and she too fell one day beside a poor negress who, with her unborn child, lay
frozen and dead, saying that she was tired, and that the time had come for her too to go. Dickenson
lifted her and struggled on.

The child was taken by the negroes and sailors. It makes a mother's heart ache even now to
read how these coarse, famished men, often fighting like wild animals with each other, staggering
under weakness and bodily pain, carried the heavy baby, never complaining of its weight, thinking,
it may be, of some child of their own whom they would never see or touch again.

I can understand better the mystery of that Divine Childhood that was once in the world, when
I hear how these poor slaves, unasked, gave of their dying strength to this child; how, in
tribes through which no white man had ever travelled alive, it was passed from one savage mother
to the other, tenderly handled, nursed at their breasts; how a gentler, kindlier spirit seemed
to come from the presence of the baby and its mother to the crew; so that, while at first they
had cursed and fought their way along, they grew at the last helpful and tender with each other,
often going back, when to go back was death, for the comrade who dropped by the way, and bringing
him on until they too lay down, and were at rest together.

It was through the baby that deliverance came to them at last. The story that a white woman
and a beautiful child had been wandering all winter through the deadly swamps was carried from
one tribe to another until it reached the Spanish fort at St. Augustine. One day therefore,
when near their last extremity, they "saw a Perre-augoe approaching by sea filled with soldiers,
bearing a letter signifying the governor of St. Augustine's great Care for our Preservation,
of what Nation soever we were." The journey, however, had to be made on foot; and it was more
than two weeks before Dickenson, the old man, Mary and the child, and the last of the crew,
reached St. Augustine.

"We came thereto," he says, "about two hours before Night, and were directed to the governor's
house, where we were led up a pair of stairs, at the Head whereof stood the governor, who ordered
my Wife to be conducted to his Wife's Apartment."

There is something in the picture of poor Mary, after her months of starvation and nakedness,
coming into a lady's chamber again, "where was a Fire and Bath and Cloathes," which has a curious
pathos in it to a woman.

Robert Barrow and Dickenson were given clothes, and a plentiful supper set before them.

St. Augustine was then a collection of a few old houses grouped about the fort; only a garrison,
in fact, half supported by the king of Spain and half by the Church of Rome. Its three hundred
male inhabitants were either soldiers or priests, dependent for supplies of money, clothing,
or bread upon Havana; and as the famine had lasted for two years, and it was then three since
a vessel had reached them from any place whatever, their poverty was extreme. They were all,
too, the "false Catholicks and hireling Priests" whom, beyond all others, Dickenson distrusted
and hated. Yet the grim Quaker's hand seems to tremble as he writes down the record of their
exceeding kindness; of how they welcomed them, looking, as they did, like naked furious beasts,
and cared for them as if they were their brothers. The governor of the fort clothed the crew
warmly, and out of his own great penury fed them abundantly. He was a reserved and silent man,
with a grave courtesy and an odd gentle care for the woman and child that make him quite real
to us. Dickenson does not even give his name. Yet it is worth much to us to know that a brother
of us all lived on that solitary Florida coast two centuries ago, whether he was pagan, Protestant,
or priest.

When they had rested for some time, the governor furnished canoes and an escort to take them
to Carolina,--a costly outfit in those days,--whereupon Dickenson, stating that he was a man
of substance, insisted upon returning some of the charges to which the governor and people
had been put as soon as he reached Carolina. But the Spaniard smiled and refused the offer,
saying whatever he did was done for God's sake. When the day came that they must go, "he walked
down to see us embark, and taking our Farewel, he embraced some of us, and wished us well saying
that We should forget him when we got amongst our own nation; and I also added that If we forgot
him, God would not forget him, and thus we parted."

The mischievous boy, John Hilliard, was found to have hidden in the woods until the crew were
gone, and remained ever after in the garrison with the grave Spaniards, with whom he was a
favorite.

