A study of the foregoing dimensions will show that the working limits were narrow. Such narrow
limits would not pay for the ordinary conduit line in a street, where there is more room. In
the tunnel greater liberality meant either reducing the number of conduits or encroaching on
the strength of the concrete tunnel lining. The small difference of only 1/8 in. in the size
of the mandrel, or a clearance of only 1/16 in. on each side, no doubt did increase the cost
of laying somewhat, though not as much as might at first be supposed. All bottom courses were
laid to a string, in practically perfect line and grade, and all joints were tested with mandrels
which were in all openings, and pulled forward as each piece of conduit was laid. As the workmen
became skillful, the progress was excellent.

All costs of labor in the tunnel chargeable to duct laying amounted to $0.039 per ft. of duct;
top charges brought this up to $0.083.

The serious problem was to guard against grout and mortar running into the duct opening through
the joints from the concrete, which was a rather wet mixture. Each joint was wrapped, when
laid, with canvas, weighing 10 oz. per sq. yd., dipped in cement grout immediately before using.
These wraps were 6 in. wide, and were cut long enough to go around the lap about the middle
of the duct. As soon as all the ducts were laid, the entire bank was plastered over with fairly
stiff mortar, which, when properly done, closed all openings. The plastering was not required
by the specifications, but was found by the contractor to result in a saving in ultimate cost.

The concrete on the two sides of the bank of ducts was bonded together by 2 by 1/8-in. steel
bonds between the ducts, laid across in horizontal joints. Both ends were split into two pieces,
1 in. long, one of which was turned up and the other down. These bonds projected 1-1/2 in.
into the concrete on either side. Where the bond came opposite the risers of the duct step,
against which the ducts were laid, recesses were provided for the projecting bond. This was
done by nailing to the rough shutters for the steps a form which when removed left a dove-tailed
vertical groove. This form was made in two pieces, one tapering inward and the other with more
taper outward. As the bonds were placed, these grooves were filled with mortar.

The ducts usually received their final rodding with the specification mandrel a month or more
after they were laid, after which all openings into splicing chambers were stopped by wooden
plugs, 8 in. long tapering from 3-3/4 in. at one end to 2-3/4 in. at the other end, and shaped
to fit the opening tightly. At first the plugs were paraffined, to keep them from swelling
and breaking the ducts, but were not successful, as the paraffin lubricated them so that they
would not stay in place. They were expensive, and there was some swelling in the best that
were obtained. A better plug was made by using no paraffin, but by making six saw cuts, three
horizontal and three vertical, in the larger end, cutting to within about 2 in. of the smaller
end. The swelling of the wood was then taken up by the saw cuts and the spring of the wood.

The splicing chambers are at 400-ft. intervals. They are 6 ft. long, 4 ft. 9 in. high, with
a width varying from 3 ft. 2 in. at the top to 1 ft. 2 in. at the bottom.