"Then," we said, "the clock-house could only have been at the entrance to the offices." The
man looked for a moment a little hurt at this observation, as derogatory to the dignity of
his dwelling, but he smiled, and said. "Perhaps so;" and very good-naturedly showed us the
cemetery of this interesting people. Indeed, their original settlement in Chelsea is quite
a romance. The chapel stands to the left of the burying-ground, which is entered by a primitive
wicket-gate; it forms a square of thick grass, crossed by broad gravel walks, kept with the
greatest neatness The tombstones are all that, and the graves not raised above the level of
the sward. They are of two sizes only: the larger for grown persons, the smaller for children.
The inscriptions on the grave-stones, in general, seldom record more than the names and ages
of the persons interred. The men are buried in one division, the women in another. We read
one or two of the names, and they were quaint and strange: "Anne Rypheria Hurloch;" "Anna Benigna
La Trobe;" and one was especially interesting, James Gillray, forty years sexton to this simple
cemetery, and father of Gillray, the H. B. of the past century. One thing pleased us mightily,
the extreme old age to which the dwellers in this house seemed to have attained.

A line of ancient trees runs along the back of the narrow gardens of Milman's-row, which is
parallel with, but further from town than Beaufort-row, and affords a grateful shade in the
summer time. We resolved to walk quietly round, and then enter the chapel. How strange the
changes of the world! The graves of a simple, peace-loving, unambitious people were lying around
us, and yet it was the place which Erasmus describes as "Sir Thomas More's estate, purchased
at Chelsey," and where "he built him a house, neither mean nor subject to envy, yet magnificent
and commodious enough." How dearly he loved this place, and how much care he bestowed upon
it, can be gathered from the various documents still extant.[1] The bravery with which, soon
after he was elected a burgess to parliament, he opposed a subsidy demanded by Henry the Seventh,
with so much power that he won the parliament to his opinion, and incensed the king so greatly,
that, out of revenge, he committed the young barrister's father to the Tower, and fined him
in the fine of a hundred pounds! That bravery remained with him to the last, and with it was
mingled the simplicity which so frequently and so beautifully blends with the intellectuality
that seems to belong to a higher world than this. When he "took to marrying," he fancied the
second daughter of a Mr. Colt, a gentleman of Essex; yet when he considered the pain it must
give the eldest to see her sister preferred before her, he gave up his first love, and framed
his fancy to the elder. This lady died, after having brought him four children; but his second
choice, Dame Alice, has always seemed to us a punishment and a sore trial. And yet how beautifully
does Erasmus describe his mode of living in this very place: "He converseth with his wife,
his son, his daughter-in-law, his three daughters and their husbands, with eleven grandchildren.
There is not a man living so affectionate to his children as he. He loveth his old wife as
if she were a young maid; he persuadeth her to play on the lute, and so with the like gentleness
he ordereth his family. Such is the excellence of his temper, that whatsoever happeneth that
could not be helped, he loveth, as if nothing could have happened more happily. You would say
there was in that place Plato's academy; but I do his house an injury in comparing it to Plato's
academy, where there were only disputations of numbers and geometrical figures, and sometimes
of moral virtues. I should rather call his house a school or university of Christian religion;
for, though there is none therein but readeth and studyeth the liberal sciences, their special
care is piety and virtue."[2]

The king was used to visit his "beloved chancellor" here for days together to admire his terrace
overhanging the Thames, to row in his state barge, to ask opinions upon divers matters, and
it is said that the royal answer to Luther was composed under the chancellor's revising eye.
Still, the penetrating vision of Sir Thomas was in no decree obscured by this glitter. One
day the king came unexpectedly to Chelsea, and having dined, walked with Sir Thomas for the
space of an hour, in the garden, having his arm about his neck. We pleased ourselves with the
notion that they walked where then we stood! Well might such condescension cause his son Roper--for
whom he entertained so warm an affection--to congratulate his father upon such condescension,
and to remind him that he had never seen his majesty approach such familiarity with any one,
save once, when he was seen to walk arm in arm with Cardinal Wolsey. "I thank our Lord," answered
Sir Thomas, "I find his grace my very good lord, indeed; and I do believe, he doth as singularly
love me as any subject within the realm; however, son Roper, I may tell thee I have no cause
to be proud thereof, for if my head should win him a castle in France, it should not fail to
go off."

With the exception of his own family (and his wife formed an exception here), there are few
indeed of his contemporaries, notwithstanding the eulogiums they are prone to heap upon him,
who understood the elevated and unworldly character of this extraordinary man.

The Duke of Norfolk, coming one day to dine with him, found him in Chelsea Church, singing
in the choir, with his surplice on. "What! what!" exclaimed the duke, "what, what, my Lord
Chancellor a parish clerk! a parish clerk! you dishonor the king and his office." And how exquisite
his reply, "Nay, you may not think your master and mine will be offended with me for serving
God his master, or thereby count his office dishonored." Another reply to the same abject noble,
is well graven on our memory. He expostulated with him, like many of his other friends, for
braving the king's displeasure. "By the mass, Master More," he said, "it is perilous striving
with princes; therefore, I wish you somewhat to incline to the king's pleasure, for 'indignatio
Principis mors est.'" "And is that all, my lord?" replied this man, so much above all paltry
considerations; "then in good faith the difference between your grace and me is but this--that
I may die to-day, and you to-morrow."

He took great delight in beautifying Chelsea Church, although he had a private chapel of his
own; and when last there they told us the painted window had been his gift. It must have been
a rare sight to see the chancellor of England sitting with the choir; and yet there was a fair
share of pomp in the manner of his servitor bowing at his lady's pew, when the service of the
mass was ended, and saying, "My lord is gone before." But the day after he resigned the great
seal of England (of which his wife knew nothing), Sir Thomas presented himself at the pew-door,
and, after the fashion of his servitor, quaintly said, "Madam, my lord is gone." The vain woman
could not comprehend his meaning, which, when, during their short walk home, he fully explained,
she was greatly pained thereby, lamenting it with exceeding bitterness of spirit.

We fancied we could trace a gothic door or window in the wall; but our great desire would have
been to discover the water-gate from which he took his departure the morning he was summoned
to Lambeth to take the oath of supremacy. True to what he believed right, he offered up his
prayers and confessions in Chelsea Church, and then, returning to his own house, took an affectionate
farewell of his wife and children, forbidding them to accompany hum to the water-gate, as was
their custom, fearing, doubtless, that his mighty heart could not sustain a prolonged interview.
Who could paint the silent parting between him and all he loved so well--the boat waiting at
the foot of the stairs--the rowers in their rich liveries, while their hearts, heavy with apprehension
for the fate of him they served, still trusted that nothing could be found to harm so good
a master--the pale and earnest countenance of "son Roper," wondering at the calmness, at such
a time, which more than all other things, bespeaks the master mind. For a moment his hand lingered
on the gate, and in fastening the simple latch his fingers trembled, and then he took his seat
by his son's side; and in another moment the boat was flying through the waters. For some time
he spoke no word, but communed with and strengthened his great heart by holy thoughts; then
looking straight into his son Roper's eyes, while his own brightened with a glorious triumph,
he exclaimed in the fullness of his rich-toned voice, "I thank our Lord the field is won."
It was no wonder that, overwhelmed with apprehension, his son-in-law could not apprehend his
meaning then, but afterward bethought him that he signified how he had conquered the world.

The abbot of Westminster took him that same day into custody, on his refusal to "take the king
as head of his Church;" and upon his repeating this refusal four days afterward, he was committed
to the Tower. Then, indeed, these heretofore bowers of bliss echoed to the weak and wavering
complaints of his proud wife, who disturbed him also in his prison by her desires, so vain
and so worldly, when compared with the elevated feelings of his dear daughter Margaret.

How did the fond, foolish woman seek to shake his purpose!

And then not even angered by her folly, seeing how little was given her to understand, he asked
her if the house in Chelsea was any nearer Heaven than the gloomy one he then occupied? ending
his pleasant yet wise parleying with a simple question:

"Tell me," he said, "good Mistress Alice, how long do you think might we live and enjoy that
same house?"

She answered, "Some twenty years."

"Truly," he replied, "if you had said some thousand years, it might have been somewhat; and
yet he were a very bad merchant who would put himself in danger to lose eternity for a thousand
years. How much the rather if we are not sure to enjoy it one day to an end?"

It is for the glory of women that his daughter Margaret, while she loved and honored him past
all telling, strengthened his noble nature; for, writing him during his fifteen months' imprisonment
in the Tower, she asks, in words not to be forgotten, "What do you think, most dear father,
doth comfort us at Chelsey, in this your absence? Surely, the remembrance of your manner of
life passed among us--your holy conversation--your wholesome counsels--your examples of virtue,
of which there is hope that they do not only persevere with you, but that they are, by God's
grace, much more increased."

After the endurance of fifteen months' imprisonment, he was arraigned, tried, and found guilty
of denying the king's supremacy.

Alack! is there no painter of English history bold enough to immortalize himself by painting
this trial? Sir Thomas More was beheaded on Tower Hill, in the bright sunshine of the month
of July, on its fifth day, 1535, the king remitting the disgusting quartering of the quivering
flesh, because of his "high office." When told of the king's "mercy," "Now, God forbid," he
said, "the king should use anymore such to any of my friends; and God bless all my posterity
from such pardons."

One man of all the crowd who wept at his death, reproached him with a decision he had given
in Chancery. More, nothing discomposed, replied, that if it were still to do, he would give
the same decision. This happened twelve months before. And, while the last scene was enacting
on Tower-Hill, the king, who had walked in this very garden with his arm round the neck, which,
by his command, the ax had severed, was playing at Tables in Whitehall, Queen Anne Bullen looking
on; and when told that Sir Thomas More was dead, casting his eyes upon the pretty fool that
had glittered in his pageants, he said, "Thou art the cause of this man's death." The COWARD!
to seek to turn upon a thing so weak as that, the heavy sin which clung to his own soul!

Some say the body lies in Chelsea Church, beneath the tomb we have sketched--the epitaph having
been written by himself before he anticipated the manner of his death.[3] It is too long to
insert; but the lines at the conclusion are very like the man. The epitaph and poetry are in
Latin: we give the translation:

    "For Alice and for Thomas More's remains
    Prepared, this tomb Johanna's form contains
    One, married young; with mutual ardor blest,
    A boy and three fair girls our joy confest.
    The other (no small praise) of these appear'd
    As fond as if by her own pangs endeared.
    One lived with me, one lives in such sweet strife,
    Slight preference could I give to either wife.
    Oh! had it met Heaven's sanction and decree,
    One hallowed bond might have united three;
    Yet still be ours one grave, one lot on high!
    Thus death, what life denied us, shall supply."

Others tell that his remains were interred in the Tower,[4] and some record that the head was
sought and preserved by that same daughter Margaret, who caused it to be buried in the family
vault of the Ropers in St. Dunstan's Church, Canterbury;[5] and they add a pretty legend how
that, when his head was upon London Bridge, Margaret would be rowed beneath it, and, nothing
horrified at the sight, say aloud, "That head has layde many a time in my lappe; would to God,
would to God, it would fall into my lappe as I pass under now," and the head did so fall, and
she carried it in her "lappe" until she placed it in her husband's, "son Roper's" vault, at
Canterbury.

The king took possession of these fair grounds at Chelsea, and all the chancellor's other property,
namely, Dunkington, Trenkford, and Benley Park, in Oxfordshire, allowing the widow he had made,
twenty pounds per year for her life, and indulging his petty tyranny still more, by imprisoning
Sir Thomas's daughter, Margaret, "both because she kept her father's head for a relic, and
that she meant to set her father's works in print."

We were calling to mind more minute particulars of the charities and good deeds of this great
man, when, standing at the moment opposite a grave where some loving hand had planted two standard
rose-trees, we suddenly heard a chant of children's voices, the infant scholars singing their
little hymn; the tune, too, was a well-known and popular melody, and very sweet, yet sad of
sound; it was just such music, as for its simplicity, would have been welcome to the mighty
dead; and, as we entered among the little songsters, the past faded away, and we found ourselves
speculating on the hopeful present.

       *       *       *       *       *

