No. 58.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7.

FURTHER NOTES ON THE HIPPOPOTAMUS.

The following remarks are supplementary to a note on the hippopotamus in
Vol. ii, p. 35. In that note the exhibition of the hippopotamus at the
Roman games is not traced lower than the time of the Emperor Commodus.
Helagabalus, however, 218-22 A.D., had hippopotami among the various rare
animals which he displayed in public as a part of his state. (Lamprid. c.
28) A hippopotamus was likewise in the vast collection of animals which
were prepared for the Persian triumph of Gordian III., but were exhibited
at the secular games celebrated by the Emperor Philip in the 1000th year of
Rome, 248 A.D. (Capitol. in Gordian.
                          VII. 64--8.

Calpurnius is generally referred to the time of Carus and Numerian, about 283 A.D.; but his
date is not determined by any satisfactory proof. (See Dr. Smith's Dict. of Ancient Biog. and
Myth. in v.)

There is no trace of a live hippopotamus having been brought to Europe between the time specified
in the last of these testimonies and the middle of the sixteenth century. When Belon visited
Constantinople, he saw there a living hippopotamus, which had been brought from the Nile:

    "L'animal que j'ai veu vivant à Constantinople (he says), apporté du
    Nil, convenoit en toutes marques avec ceulx qu'on voit gravez en
    diverses medales des Empereurs."--Observations, liv. ii. c. 32. fol.
    103. b. ed. 1564.

Belon returned to Paris from the Levant in the year 1550. In his work on fishes, p. 17., he
speaks of another Frenchman, lately returned from Constantinople, who had seen the same animal.
(See Schneider on Artedi Synonym. Piscium, p. 267.) P. Gillius likewise, who visited Constantinople
in 1550, saw there the same hippopotamus, as he states in his description of the elephant,
Hamburg, 114. (Schneider, Ib. p. 316.)

Your correspondent, MR. G. S. JACKSON (Vol. ii., p. 277.) controverts the opinion expressed
in my former note, that none of the Greek writers had seen a live hippopotamus. He thinks that
"Herodotus's way of speaking would seem to show that he was describing from his own observation;"
and he infers that the animal was found at that time as far north as the Delta, from the fact,
mentioned by Herodotus, of its being held sacred in the nome of Papremis. But, in the first
place, it does not follow that, because the hippopotamus was held sacred in the Papremitic
nome, it was found in the {458} Nile as low as that district. In the next place, there is nothing
in the words of Herodotus to indicate that he had seen the object of his description. (ii.
71.) On the other hand, the substance of his description tends strongly to the inference that
he had not seen the animal. It is difficult to conceive that any eye-witness could have described
a hippopotamus as having the hoofs of an ox, with the mane and tail of a horse. His information
as to javelins being made of its skin was doubtless correct, and he may perhaps have seen some
of these weapons. Cuvier conjectures that the original author of the description in Herodotus
had seen only the teeth and some part of the skin of the real hippopotamus; but that the other
particulars were taken from a figure or description of the gnu (Trad. de Pline, tom. vi. p.
444.) This supposition is improbable, for the gnu is an animal of Southern Africa, and was
doubtless unknown to the Egyptians in the time of Herodotus. Moreover, Cuvier is in error as
to the statement of Herodotus respecting the animal's size: he says that the animal is equal
in size, not to an ass, but to the largest ox. The statement as to the ass is to be found in
Arist. Hist. An., ii. 7. Cuvier's note is hastily written; for he says that Diodorus describes
the hippopotamus as equalling the strongest bulls,--a statement not to be found in Diodorus.
(i. 35.) His judgment, however, is clear, as to the point that none of the ancient naturalists
described the hippopotamus from autopsy. The writer of the accurate history of the hippopotamus
in the Penny Cyclopædia, vol. xii. p. 247., likewise takes the same view. If Achilles Tatius
is correct in stating that "the horse of the Nile" was the native Egyptian name of the animal,
it is probable that the resemblance to the horse indicated in the description of Herodotus,
was supplied by the imagination of some informant.

In the mosaic of Palestrina (see Barthelemy in Mém. de l'Acad. des Inscript., tom. xxx. p.
503.), the hippopotamus appears three times in the lower part of the composition, at the left-hand
corner. Two entire figures are represented, and one head of an animal sinking into the river.
Men in a boat are throwing darts at them, some of which are sticking in their backs. (See Ib.
p. 521.) Diodorus (i. 35.) describes the hippopotamus as being harpooned, and caught in a manner
similar to the whale. Barthelemy properly rejects the supposition that the mosaic of Palestrina
is the one alluded to by Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxxvi. 64.) as having been constructed by Sylla.
He places it in the time of Hadrian, and supposes it to represent a district of Upper Egypt,
with which the introduction of the hippopotamus well accords. The true form of the hippopotamus
was unknown in Italy in the time of Sylla.

The word [Greek: hippopotamos] as used by the Latin writers, instead of [Greek: hippos potamios]
occurs in Lucian (Rhet. Præcept., c. 6.). The author of the Cynegetica, who addresses his poem
to the Emperor Caracalla, describes the hippopotamus under the name of [Greek: hippagros],
"the wild horse," compounded like [Greek: onagros] (iii. 251-61.). In this passage the old
error as to the cloven hoofs and the mane is repeated. It is added that the animal will not
endure captivity; but if any one is snared by means of ropes, he refuses to eat or drink. That
this latter statement is fabulous, is proved by the hippopotamus taken alive to Constantinople,
and by the very tame animal now in the Zoological Garden.

The fable about the hippopotamus destroying its father and violating its mother, cited before
from Damascius, is to be found in Plutarch, De Solert. Anim., c. 4. Pausan. (viii. 46. § 4.)
mentions a Greek statue, in which the face was made of the teeth of the hippopotamus instead
of ivory.

An interesting account of the younger hippopotamus in the Zoological Garden, by Professor Owen,
may be seen in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History for June last.

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARALLEL PASSAGES: COLERIDGE, HOOKER, BUTLER.

I do not remember to have seen the following parallels pointed out.

Coleridge. The Nightingale.

Plato Phædo, § 77. (p. 85., Steph.):

    "Men, because they fear death themselves, slander the swans, and say
    that they sing from pain lamenting their death, and do not consider
    that no bird sings when hungry, or cold, or suffering any other pain;
    no, not even the nightingale, and the swallow, and the hoopoe, which
    you know are said to sing for grief," &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hooker, E. P. I. c.5. § 2.:

    "All things therefore coveting as much as may be to be like unto God in
    being ever, that which cannot hereunto attain personally doth seek to
    continue itself another way, that is, by offspring and propagation."

    Clem. Alex. Strom. II. 23. § 138. (p. 181. Sylb.)

Sir J. Davies. Immortality of the Soul, sect 7.:

 "And though the soul could cast spiritual seed,
  Yet would she not, because she never dies;
  For mortal things desire their like to breed,
  That so they may their kind immortalise."

{459}

Plato Sympos. §32. (p. 207. D. Steph.):

    "Mortal natures seek to attain, suffer as they can, to immortality; but
    they can attain to it by this generation only; for thus they ever leave
    a new behind them to supply the place of the old." Compare § 31.
    "Generation immortalises the mortal, so for as it can be
    immortalised."--Plato Leg. iv. (p. 721. G.), vi. § 17. (p. 773. E.);
    Ocell. Lucan. iv. § 2.

       *       *       *       *       *

Butler, Serm. I. on Human Nature (p. 12.

Dr. Whewell has not, I think, in his edition, pointed out the passage alluded to, Cic. de Fin.
III., c. 11. § 36.:

    "Quis est enim, aut quis unquam fuit aut avaritiâ tam ardenti, aut tam
    effrenatis cupiditatibus, ut eamdem illam rem, quam adipisci scelere
    quovis velit, non multis partibus malit ad sese, etiam omni impunitate
    proposita, sine facinore, quam illo modo pervenire?"

J. E. B. MAYOR.

Marlborough College.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE AND THE OLD ENGLISH ACTORS IN GERMANY.

My studies on the first appearance of Shakspeare on the German stage, by means of the so-called
"English Comedians" who from the end of the sixteenth to the middle of the seventeenth century
visited Germany and the Netherlands, led me to the following passage of a Dutch author:

    "In the Voyages of Vincent le Blanc through England, I met with a
    description of the representation of a most absurd tragedy, which I
    recognised to be the Titus Andronicus of Shakspeare."

I have examined the Voyages of Vincent le Blanc without having been able to discover the passage
alluded to; and as the Dutch author says that some time had elapsed between his first reading
those Voyages and the composition of his treatise, and as he seems to quote only from memory,
I am led to believe his having confounded Vincent le Blanc with some other traveller of the
same period.

Undoubtedly one of your numerous readers can furnish me with the title of the work in which
such a description occurs, or with the name of some other foreign traveller who may have visited
England at the period alluded to, and in whose works I may find the description mentioned above.

ALBERT COHN.

Berlin, Nov. 19. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

TEN CHILDREN AT A BIRTH.

The following circumstance, although perhaps hardly coming within the ordinary scope of the
"NOTES AND QUERIES," appears to me too curious to allow a slight doubt to prevent the attempt
to place it on permanent and accessible record. Chancing, the other day, to overhear an ancient
gossip say that there was living in her neighbourhood a woman who was one of ten children born
at the same time, I laughed at her for her credulity,--as well I might! As, however, she mentioned
a name and place where I might satisfy myself, I called the next day at a small greengrocer's
shop in this town, the mistress of which, a good-looking, respectable woman, aged seventy,
at once assured me that her mother, whose name was Birch, and came from Derby, had been delivered
of ten children; my informant having been the only one that lived, "the other nine," she added,
"being in bottle in the Museum in London!" On mentioning the matter to a respectable professional
gentleman of this place, he said "he had a recollection of the existence of a glass jar, which
was alleged to contain some such preparation, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons,
as mentioned when he was a pupil in London." Of the question, or the fact, of so marvellous
a gestation and survivorship in the history of human nature should strike the editor of "NOTES
AND QUERIES" as forcibly as his correspondent, the former, should he publish this article,
may perhaps be kind enough to accompany it with the result of at least an inquiry, as to whether
or not the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons does contain anything like corroborative
evidence of so strange, and, if true, surely so unprecedented a phenomenon.

N. D.

    [We are enabled by the courtesy of Professor Owen to state that there
    exists no corroboration of this remarkable statement in the Museum of
    the College of Surgeons. The largest number at a birth, of which any
    authentic record appears, is five, and the Museum contains, in case No.
    3681, five children, of about five months, all females, which were born
    at the same time. Three were still-born, two were born alive, and
    survived their birth but a short time. The mother, Margaret Waddington,
    aged twenty-one, was a poor woman of the township of Lower Darling,
    near Blackburn in Lancashire. This remarkable birth took place on the
    24th April, 1786, and was the subject of a communication to the Royal
    Society, which contained also the result of an investigation into
    similar cases which could be well authenticated, and which may be seen
    in a note in the admirable Catalogue of the College Museum, vol. v. pp.
    177-185. As the remarkable birth described by our correspondent N. D.
    took place five years previously to these inquiries, and is not
    mentioned, it is scarcely possible to doubt that his informant must be
    labouring under some great mistake. If such a birth took place, it is
    probable that the parish register will contain some record of the fact.
    Our correspondent will, perhaps, take the trouble to make some further
    investigations, so as to trace the source of the error, for error there
    must be, in the statement of his informant.]

{460}

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE HERBERT AND BEMERTON CHURCH.

It is gratifying to see that some of your correspondents are taking, an interest in the "worthy,
lowly, and lovely" (as Isaac Walton called him) Mr. George Herbert (Vol. ii., pp. 103. 414.).
It may tend to increase that interest, if I send you a note I made a few years ago, when I
visited Bemerton, and had the pleasure of officiating within the walls of that celebrated little
church.

It may truly be said to stand near the chapel (as his biographer calls it), being distant only
the width of the road, thirty-four feet, which in Herbert's time was forty feet, as the building
shows. On the south is a grass-plat sloping down to the river, whence is a beautiful view of
Sarum Cathedral in the distance. A very aged fig-tree grows against the end of the house, and
a medlar in the garden, both, traditionally, planted by Herbert.

The whole length and breadth of the church is forty-five feet by eighteen. The south and west
windows are of the date called Decorated, say 1300. They are two-light windows, and worthy
of imitation. The east window is modern. The walls have much new brickwork and brick buttresses,
after the manner recommended in certain Hints to Churchwardens, Lond. 1825. A little square
western turret contains an ancient bell of the fourteenth century (diameter, twenty-four inches),
the daily sound of which used to charm the ploughmen from their work, that they "might offer
their devotions to God with him."

The doorway is Jacobean, as is the chest or parish coffer, and also the pulpit canopy; the
old sittings had long been removed. The font is circular, of early English date, lined with
lead, seventeen inches diameter, by ten inches deep. The walls were (1841) very dilapidated.

It cannot but be a surprise to every admirer of George Herbert and to all visitors to this
highly favoured spot, to find no monument whatever to the memory of that bright example of
an English parish priest. This fact need surely only to be made known to insure ample funds
for rebuilding the little church, and "beautifying" it in all things as Herbert would desire
(he once did it "at his own cost"), retaining, if I may be allowed to suggest, the decorated
windows, with the font and bell, which, from my Notes and Recollections, seem to be all that
remains of what he must have so often looked upon and cherished.

From the register I was permitted to extract this entry:

    "Mr. George Herbert, Esq., Parson, of Ffoughlston and Bemerton, was
    buried 3 day of March, 1632."

The locus in quo is by this still left doubtful. 'I
    wish (if God shall be so pleased) that I may be so happy as to die like
    him.'"

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Clyst St. George, Nov. 25. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Lord Mayor's Show in 1701.--Among the varieties which at different times have graced the procession
of the City on Lord Mayor's day, be pleased to take the following from the Post-boy, Oct. 30.
to Nov. 1. 1701:

    "The Maiden Queen who rid on the Lord Mayor's day in the pageant, in
    imitation of the Patroness of the Mercer's Company, had a fine suit of
    cloaths given her, valued at ninety guineas, a present of fifty
    guineas, four guineas for a smock, and a guinea for a pair of gloves."

Y. S.

Sir Thomas Phillipps's Manuscripts.--Many inquiries are made in your useful publication after
books and authors, which may easily be answered by the querist referring to the Catalogue of
Sir Thomas Phillipps's Manuscripts in the British Museum, the Society of Antiquaries, the Athenæum,
or the Bodleian Library.

T.

Translation from Owen, &c.--I do not remember seeing in a subsequent number of "NOTES AND QUERIES"
any version of Owen's epigram, quoted by DR. MAITLAND in No. 17. I had hoped RUFUS would have
tried his hand upon it; but as he has not, I send you a translation by an old friend of the
Doctor's, which has at least the merit of being a close one, and catching, perhaps, not a little
of the spirit of the original.

         "Owen de Libro suo.

{461}

         "Owen on his Book.

 "When fresh at Oxon I a salting got;
  At Winton I'd been pepper'd piping hot;
  If aught herein you find that's sharp and nice,
 'Tis Oxon's seasoning, and Winton's spice."

I subjoin also an epitaph[1] from the chapel of Our Ladye in Gloucester Cathedral, translated
by the same hand.

         "Elizabetha loquitur.

 "Conjugis effigiem sculpsisti in marmore conjux
    Sic me immortalem te statuisse putas;
  Sed Christus fuerat viventi spesque fidesque
    Sic me mortalem non sinit esse Deus."

 "Say, didst thou think within this sculptured stone
    Thy faithful partner should immortal be?
  Fix'd was her faith and hope on Christ alone,
    And thus God gave her immortality."

F. T. J. B.

Deanery of Gloucester.

Epigram on the late Bull.--Pray preserve the following admirable epigram, written, it is said,
by one of the most accomplished scholars of the university of Oxford:--

 "Cum Sapiente Pius nostras juravit in aras:
  Impius heu Sapiens, desipiensque Pius."

Thus translated:

 "The wise man and the Pius have laid us under bann;
  Oh Pious man unwise! oh impious Wise-man!"

S. M. H.

Bailie Nicol Jarvie (Vol. ii., p. 421.).--When we spoke recently of Charles Mackay, the inimitable
Bailie Nicol Jarvie of one of the Terryfications (though not by Terry) of Scott's Rob Roy having
made a formal affidavit that he was a real "Edinburgh Gutter Bluid," we suspect some of our
readers themselves suspected a joke. The affidavit itself has, however, been printed in the
Athenæum, accompanied by an amusing commentary, in which the document is justly pronounced
"a very curious one." Here it is:

    "At Edinburgh, the Fourteenth day of November, One thousand eight
    hundred and fifty years.

    "In presence of John Stoddart, Esq., one of Her Majesty's Justices of
    the Peace for the City of Edinburgh, appeared Charles Mackay, lately
    Theatre Royal, residing at number eleven Drummond Street, Edinburgh;
    who being solemnly sworn and examined depones, that he is a native of
    Edinburgh, having been born in one of the houses on the north side of
    the High Street of said city, in the month of October one thousand
    seven hundred and eighty-seven. That the deponent left Edinburgh for
    Glasgow when only about nine years of age, where he sojourned for five
    years; thence he became a wanderer in many lands, and finally settled
    once more in Edinburgh a few months before February eighteen hundred
    and nineteen years, when the drama of Rob Roy was first produced in
    the Theatre Royal here. That the deponent by his own industry having
    realised a small competency, he is now residing in Edinburgh; and
    although upwards of threescore years old he finds himself 'hale and
    hearty,' and is one of the same class whom King Jamie denominates 'a
    real Edinburgh Gutter Bluid.' All which is truth, as the deponent
    shall answer to God.

                     "CHAS. MACKAY, B. N. Jarvie.
                     "JOHN STODDART, J. P.
     "JOHN MIDDLETON, M.D.E., Witness.
     "WALTER HENDERSON, Witness."

Hogs not Pigs (Vol. ii., p. 102.).--J. MN.'s remark on "hogs, lambs a year old," reminds me
that the origin of this rustical word still lingers in the remote west, among the Irish and
the Highland Gaels, whose gnath-bearla, vernacular tongue, furnishes the neglected key of many
a dark chamber. The word to which I allude is "og," adj. young; whence "ogan," a young man;
"oige," a virgin.

In these islands we still apply the old French term "aver," averium, in Guernsey, to the hog
or pig; in Jersey, to a child. In France "aver" denoted the animal produce or stock on a farm;
and there were "averia lanata" likewise. Similar apparently whimsical adaptations of words
will not shock those who are aware that "pig" in England properly means a little fellow of
the swine species, and that "pige" in Norse signifies a little maid, a damsel.

G. M.

Guernsey.

The Baptized Turk.--Your correspondent CH. (Vol. ii., p. 120.), who inquired about Lord Richard
Christophilus (al. Isuf Bassa), a converted Turk, may be interested in a curious account of
another convert to Christianity, which has lately fallen in my way, if he be not already in
possession of the (almost legendary) narrative. I allude to a small 8vo. volume, entitled:

    "The Baptized Turk; or, A Narrative of the happy conversion of Signior
    Rigep Dandulo, the onely son of a silk merchant in the isle of Tsio,
    from the delusions of that great Impostor Mahomet, unto the Christian
    Religion; and of his admission unto Baptism, by Mr. Gunning at
    Excester-house Chappel, the 8th of November, 1657. Drawn up by Tho.
    Warmstry, D.D., Lond. 1658."

Dr. Warmstry was Dean of Worcester. His conversion of the Turk Dandulo is mentioned in the
Lansdowne MSS. (986., p. 67.), and also in the Athenæ Oxonienses. The narrative is dedicated to

    "The Right Honourable the Countess of Dorset, the Honourable the Lord
    George, and the Worshipful Philip Warwick, Esq., witnesses at the
    baptism of Signior Dandulo the convert."

There appears to have been "a picture of the said Dandulo in a Turkish habit put before it;"
{462} but this has been abstracted from the only copy I have seen.

This conversion appears to have been effected by the instrumentality of a dream; and the Narrative
contains an interesting essay of some length on the subject of visions, and gives an interpretation
of the dream in question.

J. SANSOM.

[Footnote 1: On Elizabeth Williams, youngest daughter of Miles (Smith), and wife of John Williams,
Esq., died in child-bed at the age of seventeen. The above Miles Smith, was Bishop of Gloster
during the latter part of Henry VIII. and part of Elizabeth's reign.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

GRAY.--DRYDEN.--PLAYING CARDS.

Although my question regarding Gray and Dodsley's Collection of Poems has only been half answered,
and my two Queries respecting Dryden's Absolom and Achitophel and Essay on Satire not answered
at all, I am not discouraged from putting interrogatories on other matters, in the hope that
I may be more fortunate hereafter. On each of my former inquiries I have still a word or two
to say, and I do not know why I should not say them now.

First, as to Gray and Dodsley:--Is the epithet droning, or drony, in the first edition of the
Elegy? and, as my copy of Dodsley's Collection is dated 1748, and is said (on the half title,
preceding the whole title) to be "the second edition," was there a first edition in the same
year, or in an earlier year, or was there, in fact, no first edition at all? This question
is important, because several poetical productions, of undisputed excellence, originally made
their appearance in Dodsley's Collection.

Next, as to Dryden's Absolom and Achitophel: Is it known, or anywhere stated, that it was printed
early in the eighteenth century as a penny or two-penny chap-book, and why was it so printed?
Observe, too, that it was unaccompanied by Tate's Continuation, which, as far as a lesson to
the lower orders is concerned, was of more consequence than Dryden's portion. It is a circumstance
I did not mention, but it is, nevertheless, worth a Note, that in The Key which follows the
Address "to the Reader," in my edition of 1708, the character of Zimri (which was given by
Dryden himself to the Duke of Buckingham) is assigned to Lord Gray, who was in truth the Caleb
of the performance. Is it to be taken that the publication of this chap-book edition is merely
a proof of the extreme popularity of Dryden's half of the poem?

My third unanswered Query referred to the Essay on Satire, commonly attributed to Lord Mulgrave
and Dryden, but with which, as it seems to me, for reasons there assigned, Lord Mulgrave could
have nothing to do. As a farther proof of Dryden's sole authorship, I may here add, what I
have since found, that the Addendum to the first volume of State Poems consists of one thus
entitled: "In opposition to Mr. Dryden's Essay on Satyr," treating it as only his: it begins,

 "Now the reformer of the court and stage,
  The common beadle of this wilful age,
  Has with impartial hand whipp'd sovereign sin,
  In me it is but manners to begin."

It sounds drolly, in our day, to hear Dryden called "the reformer of the court and stage,"
especially recollecting the attack upon him made just afterwards by Jeremy Collier. Then, what
are we to say to the subsequent lines, attributed to Prior, which advert to the cudgelling
Dryden received in Rose Street for his attack upon Rochester. Prior calls his own production
A Satire on the Modern Translators, where he thus speaks of Dryden under his name of Bayes:--

 "But what excuse, what preface can atone
  For crimes which guilty Bayes has singly done--
  Bayes, whose Rose Alley ambuscade enjoin'd
  To be to vices, which he practised, kind?"

All the contemporary evidence, with which I am acquainted, tends to establish that Lord Mulgrave,
instead of being the author of a satire which Dryden improved and polished, had nothing in
the world to do with it. Is there any evidence, not contemporary, which shows the contrary?
Surely this, and the two other matters to which I have above adverted, are interesting literary
Queries.

Now to a subject that I care less about, and upon which I am entitled, from his published works,
to appeal to your correspondent, MR. S. W. SINGER. It is a mere trifle, but upon a curious
point--the history of playing cards, which may, however, attract more attention than topics
that relate only to such insignificant men as Thomas Gray and John Dryden.

I have before me only four, out of what I presume originally consisted of fifty-two playing
cards, unlike any I have hitherto heard of. Each of them illustrates a proverb, which is engraved
at the bottom of a pictorial representation of figures and objects, and the cards consist of
the ten of diamonds, the ace of hearts, the seven of hearts, and the eight of spades: the number
is in Roman figures at the left-hand corner, and the subject, a diamond, heart, and spade,
at the right-hand corner. I will briefly describe them separately.

The proverb illustrated by the ten of diamonds is "Hee's in an ill case y^t can finde no hole
to creepe out at;" and the engraving (upon copper) represents two men, with grey heads and
in black gowns, in the pillory, surrounded by soldiers armed with halberds, partisans, spears,
&c., of various shapes, and by a crowd of men in dresses of the seventeenth century. The ace
of hearts illustrates the proverb "Look before you leap;" a man in a hat turned up at the sides
is about to leap from a high bank into the waters, wherein two others are already swimming:
in the background is a fifth man looking over the fence of a cottage. The seven of hearts has
engraved at the bottom of it, {463} "Patience on force is a medicine for a mad horse;" and
it represents the female keeper of a brothel receiving whip-castigation at a cart's tail, a
punishment frequently inflicted of old upon women of that description, as many authors testify:
soldiers with halberds, &c., as before, march on either side of the cart, which at the moment
is passing a house with the sign of the Half-moon hanging out from the wall by ornamented iron-work.
The eight of spades is upon the proverb, "Two of a trade can never agree;" and in the engraving,
a couple of fish-wives, who have thrown down their baskets of plaise, flounders, &c., are fighting
furiously, while a man, behind, is obviously running away with something he has stolen from
them: the background consists of gable-ended houses, part of a street.

These cards came to me from an old relative, who very likely once had the whole pack, or deck,
as it was formerly called; but I never could find more than these four, and I have been unable
to meet with, or hear of, any others like them. From the costume and other circumstances, I
am inclined to think that they belong to the period of the Civil War, or rather later; and
I remember, some years ago, to have been shown twenty or thirty cards of the latter end of
the seventeenth century, founded upon public events, one of them relating to the celebrated
"Virgins of Taunton Dean," another to the Death of Monmouth, &c. I shall be personally obliged
by any information respecting the cards I have described; and, since a distinct Query may be
desirable, I beg leave to ask any of your readers, whether they know of the existence of any
other cards belonging to the same set?

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Pretended Reprint of Ancient Poetry.--In a bookseller's catalogue (J. Taylor, Blackfriars-road,
1824), I find mention of a work entitled Sundrie Pleasaunte Flowres of Poesie, newlie plucked
from the Hill Parnasse the hand of P. M., and verie goodlie to smelle. It is said to have been
"Imprynted in London, in the yeare of our Lorde 1576," and "Reprinted by Davidson, 1823." The
bookseller's note records the fact, that "only TWO COPIES were reprinted from the original
supposed to be unique." I do not believe that any work with the above title came from the press
in the sixteenth century. Query, Who was the enlightened individual who produced the two copies?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

The Jews' Spring Gardens.--In the newspaper called the Postman, Oct. 3. to 6. 1702, I read,

    "At Milend the garden and house called the Jews' Spring Garden, is to
    be let. Enquire at Capt. Bendal's at Milend."

