LEE'S
  LAST CAMPAIGN.

  BY
  CAPTAIN J. C. G.

  RALEIGH, N. C.:
  WM. B. SMITH & COMPANY,
  MDCCCLXVI.

  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by
  WM. B. SMITH & COMPANY.
  in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States
  for the District of Pamlico, North Carolina.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.                                                       PAGE.

The Condition of the Army of Northern Virginia in its Last
    Days--The Lines in Front of Petersburg--The Battles
    Around the City--The Final Struggle--Terrible Fighting--
    The Assaults on Forts Mahone and Gregg--Thrilling
    Scenes--The Main Bodies of Both Armies Stand and Look
    Anxiously On--The Confederate Army Severed--The
    Evacuation of Richmond and Petersburg--The Greetings of
    Petersburg Ladies to the Retreating Columns--The Retreat
    and Pursuit to Appomattox Court House                            5

CHAPTER II.

Official Correspondence Concerning the Surrender--The
    Interview Between Generals Lee and Grant--Appearance of
    General Lee--Scenes Between the Two Armies Under Flag of
    Truce--The Surrender--General Lee's Farewell Address to
    His Army                                                        42

LEE'S LAST CAMPAIGN.

When I returned to my command in the early part of March, after a long absence as a prisoner,
I was greatly depressed at the sad state of feeling in which I found almost the whole army.--The
buoyant, hopeful tone that animated them during the bloody and heroic struggles in the Wilderness,
and at Spotsylvania, was gone. The men who followed the immortal Jackson in his historic and
eventful campaigns, and endured every fatigue and hardship without a murmur, in the full hope
of eventual victory, were dejected, crestfallen and despondent. The wear and tear of a continuous
campaign from the Rappahannoc to the James, and the disasters of the Valley struggle of the
previous fall, together with the continuous marching and counter-marching on their present
lines, without rest and with short rations, were telling upon their hardy natures. Longstreet's
veterans, who had followed their old leader from the ensanguined fields of Virginia to Chicamauga
and East Tennessee, and who had again been forwarded to their old fields of conflict, were
thinned in numbers, and had lost much of the fierce fire of pluck that characterised them of old.

The lines were long, stretching from below Richmond, on the north side of the James, to Hatcher's
run, away beyond Petersburg, on the south side. A countless host were just in front of them,
watching an opportunity to strike where the lines were the weakest.--The Confederate army numbered
perhaps 60,000 all told--artillery, cavalry and infantry, and with 40 miles of defence, the
battle-line was thin as a skirmish, and the duty incessant and fatiguing in the greatest degree.
On some parts of the line the crack of the rifle, the booming of artillery, and the bursting
of the mortar shells were incessant.

Desertions were very numerous, both to the enemy and to the rear, and I early found that the
army had at last succumbed, not to the enemy in front, but to the discontent, the murmurings,
despondency and demoralization among the people at home, who infused their hopeless dejection,
by furloughed men returning to their commands, and by letters.

Longstreet commanded the Confederate left, across the James, and his right division extended
to within a few miles of Petersburg. Gordon came next, with his three divisions, thinned by
arduous and fatiguing marches and bloody battles in the Shenandoah Valley, to the dimensions
of only respectable brigades. He commanded just in front of Petersburg, from the Appomattox
to a small stream just to the right of the city, which, not knowing its correct name, I will
call Silver run; and it was along this line, almost its entire length, that a continuous struggle
for months had been kept up, and in some places the opposing forces were scarce a dozen yards
apart. A. P. Hill, with his three divisions, held the right, extending to Hatcher's run, while
the cavalry guarded either flank.

The Confederates had no reserves, and when a brigade was taken to assist at some threatened
point, the position they left was endangered, and safety was only insured by the unconsciousness
of the Federals. There were dozens of times during the winter, had Grant only known it, when
an assault could have been made with the same result of the last one, which caused the evacuation.

In the last days of March, the 27th, I think, Gen. Lee made his last offensive demonstration,
which ended in failure, and demonstrated the condition of his troops. The assault I allude
to was on Gordon's line, two miles south of the Appomattox, and just to the left of the Crater.
Robbing other portions of his line, he massed two divisions, and early in the morning dashed
on the abattis of the Federals. They were surprised, and the sharpshooters of Grimes' division,
composing the advance, succeeded in driving them from their works, and Lee's troops occupied
their breastworks for a distance of a quarter of a mile, with comparatively no loss, and with
a loss to the Federals of one principal fort (Haskell) and some 500 prisoners.--Had this opportunity
been taken advantage of, there is no telling the result, which would have ensued, but Lee's
troops could not be induced to leave the breastworks, taken from their enemy and advance beyond.
They hugged the works in disorder, until the Federals recovered from their surprise, and soon
the artillery in the forts to the right and left began their murderous fire on them, and when
fresh troops were brought up by the Federals, their advance was almost unresisted, and an easy
recapture was obtained, the Confederates retiring under a severe fire into their old works.
Many of the men took shelter under the breastworks they had captured, and surrendered when
the Federals advanced, and the result was a Confederate loss treble that of their foe. This
affair demonstrated to all that the day of offensive movements on the part of the Confederates
was gone. One more such disaster would have been irreparable.

Comparative quiet reigned after, along the whole line, for two or three days, when again the
vindictive fire of picket and mortar was re-inaugurated, and the spiteful whiz of the minnie
kept all cramped within the narrow limits of the trenches.

Just before the final struggle, it appeared as if the scene of hostilities had been transferred
from Gordon's immediate front. On his front there was a painful lull in the firing; painful
because it denoted that the Federals intended to operate elsewhere, and we were in suspense.
The heavy booming of guns was heard away on our right, sounding like distant thunder. Again
it would open on our extreme left, and the rattle of musketry and the lumber of the great guns
would persuade us that the ball had opened for a surety in that direction, but, after a few
impulsive volleys, strife would cease, and a calm would prevail.

The indications assured us all that the day and hour of the beginning of the spring campaign
was near at hand. The increasing signs of activity inside the enemy's lines filled the air
and caused it to vibrate with the buz and hum of reinforcements, and the great addition to
their drum corps and trumpeters, whose morning reveille shut out even the sound of fire-arms,
gave ample evidence of it. Clouds of dust away in their rear clearly showed that troops were
moving. Each night the Confederates unfolded their blankets and unloosed their shoe-strings
in uncertainty.

A day or two previous to the decisive 2nd, the cannonading on the extreme right grew fiercer
and more continuous, and we all thought that the strategy of Grant was being uncovered. Every
available man from the Confederate left and centre was hurried to the right. Pickett's entire
division was sent thither to the assistance of Bushrod Johnson, who occupied A. P. Hill's right,
and Longstreet put in command. On the 30th of March, the left brigade of Hill's corps, (McGowan's,)
whose left rested on Silver run, was moved to the right, leaving only artillerists in the trenches,
and the picket in front. Cox's brigade, of Grimes' division, held the right of Gordon's corps
and extended to the left bank of the run. On the 1st of March and 1st of April, the battle
seemed hotter on the right, and the heavy water-batteries on the left boomed incessantly. It
appeared as if our corps, (Gordon's,) which had become powder-blackened and sulphur-fumed with
the baptism of battle for the several weeks previous, were to escape the assaulting might and
vengeance of the Federals, and many an old soldier, while listening to the distant roar, congratulated
himself and his command that they were to escape this time. But they reckoned without their host.

The battle opened on Gordon's front at 3-1/2 o'clock on the morning of the 2d, and the conflict
then seemed general along the whole line. The earth shook under the jar and sound. The air
was thick with death-dealing missiles, and the whole atmosphere lit up luridly from the firing
of cannon, the bursting of shell and the flash of the rifle. In the darkness it seemed as if
the hand of Deity had let loose its hold upon the world, its attraction was gone, and, amid
thunder and lightning and tempest, the chaotic masses of earth and sky were commingling together
in grand confusion.

But this was only the interlude foreshadowing the tragedy of the dawn. Grant did not intend
to surprise the Confederates by rushing madly and headlong at a given point, without warning
or notice. He put them on the alert all along the entire line, but they were unaware where
he intended to strike in deadly earnest. At dawn earnest charges, in double column, were made
at different points on the line, but without success. Still the continuous roar was kept up
from fort and battery, by cannon and mortar, and one no longer knew how the battle was going,
away from one's own immediate front, except by the assurance given by the answering thunder
of the guns. About noon, it seemed as if the battle raged fiercer if possible. The god of war
was reveling incarnately. Huge masses of sulphurous smoke hung over the scene of conflict.
Every piece of artillery in the thickly studded forts, batteries and mortar-beds on both sides
were at their best, and their reports savagely, terrifically crashing through the narrow streets
and lanes of Petersburg, echoed upwards, and made it appear as if invisible fiends of the air
were engaged, like us, in bloody conflict.

It was at this moment that the Federals made their most determined effort on Gordon's lines,
and by heroic bravery and daring, and amid great slaughter, succeeded in taking a portion of
the breastworks near the Appomattox. But they could not use the advantage they had struggled
so hard to obtain. The works were so constructed that the men could retreat only a few yards
to another line, while their old line was exposed to the raking fire from the artillery on
the right and left; at this part of the line, the artillery fire in a manner ceased, and, from
the construction of the works, an almost individual battle was kept up until dark, with no
more advantage gained on the Federal side than the taking of the first line, which they were
unable to hold in a body.

While this fierce battle was raging on the left of the "Crater," other parts of the line to
the right were hotly engaged, but the Confederates succeeded in repulsing every effort. About
2 p. m., heavy masses of troops were concentrated by the Federals directly opposite the position
which McGowan's brigade had left the day previous. It took place while a seeming lull had occurred
in the battle. I saw them when they first came in sight, marching in line of battle, three
columns deep, apparently by divisions, their guns glistening and sparkling in the sun, and
their blue uniforms seemingly black in the distance.--They drove the Confederate skirmishers
before them with impunity, and when they reached point blank range received the fire of the
batteries in the breastworks without staggering. Had infantry been there, perhaps another tale
might have been told, but without their assistance the Confederate batteries were carried in
a moment, and the long line of breastworks was theirs, and of the few men that occupied them,
some fled to the rear and others to the right and left. A loud huzza, that drowned the sound
of battle on other parts of the line, greeted our ears and gave assurance to our right that
a success had been gained by the Federals, and disaster had befallen the Confederates.

Just in rear, some two or three hundred yards, on many parts of our line, heavy forts had been
erected to guard against just such results as had ensued. In rear of the line of works captured
by the Federals were batteries Mahone and Gregg, but neither had guns mounted nor men assigned
them. Mahone was unfinished, and was simply an embrasured battery of three guns. Gregg was
a large fort, with a deep ditch in front, and its sally-ports protected in rear, and was embrasured
for six guns. These two forts were all that now prevented the enemy from completely cutting
the Confederate lines in two to the Appomattox, and dividing A. P. Hill and Longstreet's forces,
on the right, from the main body of the army.

As soon as the line of works were captured the men from all the brigades which had been forced
to retire were hurried into these works. Three guns, saved from capture on the entrenchments,
were put in battery Mahone, with a few men, and three also in fort Gregg, with about 300 infantry,
mostly Mississippians. After reforming and getting in order, the Federals moved on these works--on
Mahone first, and they took it with a rush, although the gunners stood to their guns to the
last and fired their last shot while the Federal troops were on the ramparts.

I was standing where I could view the whole encounter. The Confederate line to the left of
the run was not attacked. The creek divided us, and the struggle was going on on one hill while
we were on the opposite, about half a mile apart, anxious and breathless witnesses.

As soon as Mahone fell the Federals, in three lines, moved on fort Gregg, with cheers. In the
immediate vicinity all else was silent. How confidently, and in what beautiful lines they advance!
As they near the fort their line curves into a circle. They are within fifty yards, and not
the flash of a single rifle yet defies them. My God! have the boys surrendered without a struggle?
We look to see if the sign of a white flag can be seen. At this instant it seems to gleam in
the sun-light, and sends a pang to our hearts. But no; it is the white smoke of their guns,
while cannoneers and infantry simultaneously fire on the confident assaulters, who stagger,
reel under their death-dealing volley, and in a moment the Federal lines are broken and they
retreat in masses under cover. A loud and wild cheer succeeds the breathless stillness that
prevailed amongst us, and is answered exultingly by the heroic little garrison in fort Gregg.
But reinforcements have come to the help of the assaulters. I can see their long serpentine
lines as they wind their way through the cleared fields in the distance, and over the captured
works. I turned and looked to our rear, but no reinforcements were seen coming to the succor
of the garrison. Every man is needed at his post, and no reserves are at hand. The repulsed
assailants, animated by the sight of reinforcements, reform, and, as their comrades come up
in battle array, march forth again in unbroken ranks. As they gain the hill-top, two hundred
yards from the fort, the artillery within the fort belches forth from the embrasures, and the
effect of its canister can be plainly seen in the heaps of dead and dying that strew the ground.
But the check is only momentary. As the next line advances they move forward in serried ranks,
and soon the fort is canopied in smoke. We can see the artillery as it fires in rapid succession,
and the small arms pop and crack in a ceaseless rattle. The conflict elsewhere ceases, and
both sides are silent and anxious witnesses of the struggle at the fort. Thus the fight continues
for half hour. The Federals have reached the ditch. They climb up the sides of the works, and,
as the foremost reach the top, we can see them reel and fall headlong on their comrades below.
Once, twice and thrice have they reached the top, only to be repulsed, and yet they persevere,
and the artillery in the embrasures continue to fire in rapid succession. But, at last, all
is hushed! The artillery once more, and for the last time, fire a parting shot, and we can
see the Federals as with impunity they mount the works and begin a rapid fire on the defenders
within. Their ammunition is exhausted, and, unwilling to surrender, they are using their bayonets
and clubbing their guns in an unequal struggle. At last one loud huzza proclaims the fort lost,
and with it the Confederate army cut into two parts. Generals Heth and Wilcox were in the fort,
cheered the men to the last, and, at the minute of its surrender, mounted their steeds, dashed
through the sally-port and retreated to the rear. I have since learned that 280 of the garrison,
of a little over 300, were killed and wounded.

As soon as the fort was captured the Federal signal corps were at work, and the cannonading
and sharpshooting was renewed on the other parts of the line. In a moment heavy bodies of cavalry
were seen emerging from the Federals' former lines, poured rapidly over the captured works
and galloped in squadrons towards the Appomattox, which was some four or five miles off. Their
track could be traced by the heavy columns of black smoke that rose from the various farmhouses
on their route, which had been set on fire. The infantry which had succeeded in capturing the
fort formed line fronting the Confederates' right flank, and looked as if they intended marching
by the rear into Petersburg. New dispositions were also made along the Confederate line. Regiments
were detached from their positions along the line (whose place had to be filled by deployment
by those who remained) and sent to the right flank and rear, confronting the new line of the
Federals. Artillery galloped into position, and soon Fields' division, with the Texans in the
lead, joined the right flank and formed a defensive line to the rear towards the river. A narrow
creek only divided the opposing forces, but the Federals seemed satisfied with their success
now and did not advance. A heavy artillery fire was, however, kept up from the new lines until
dark.

This fire enfiladed the position of our brigade on the right, (as we occupied the angle of
the line,) and annoyed us a great deal, and we all awaited with eagerness the coming of night,
and the setting of the seemingly dilatory sun.

All now felt that Petersburg was gone, and that to-morrow would find the Confederates, if permitted,
on the north side of the Appomattox.

From the fall of Gregg, huge columns of smoke burst from numberless depots and warehouses of
Petersburg, where Confederate supplies were stored, and when night closed in the air was luminous
with the steady glare of burning buildings in the city, and to the right; all night long, at
intervals, all along the line, cannonading was kept up, and at 12 o'clock the Confederates
began their retreat. By 3 a. m. Gordon's whole corps, except a few pickets and stragglers,
were safely across the river, and the bridge on fire.

The Confederates passed through Petersburg in silence and dejection. Huge bolts from the enemy's
batteries were crashing through the buildings, but they marched heedlessly on without hurry
or trepidation. No one but soldiers were in the streets, and but few houses gave evidence of
being inhabited. Sometimes females would approach at the windows of different houses and ask,
in a plaintive and supplicative tone, "Boys, are you going to leave us?" And you could see
signs of sorrow and distress in their countenances. Some two or three were disposed to be merry,
and changed our sympathies and fears in their behalf into carelessness, as they would tell
us, "Good-bye, boys, we'll drink pure coffee with sugar in it to-morrow!--'hard times come
again no more!'" My command was one of the last that crossed the Pocahontas bridge, and by
the time we had ascended the bluff, and stood upon high ground, the bridge across the Appomattox
was in flames--rockets were ascending high in the air along the Federal lines, and loud huzzas
from the trenches made the welkin ring.

At that time none knew or could guess at the intentions of Gen. Lee, and the darkness prevented
us from knowing that the balance of our forces were already on the march, up the Appomattox.
We rested a short while by the roadside in the vicinity of the bridge, and at the signal gun
from a piece of artillery near by, which startled us by its suddenness and proximity, we were
called to attention and followed our comrades who had preceded us up the river. That signal
gun was a notice to others besides ourselves. By the time we had got under weigh, the heavily
charged magazine of Cummins' battery of siege guns, blew up, first lighting up the deep darkness
of the night with its fierce and vivid glare, and then shaking the earth under our feet like
the shock of an earthquake.--Fort Clifton's magazine in a moment followed, and then it was
taken up all along the line to Richmond. The scene was the fiercest and most imposing I ever
witnessed. We left the light and pierced the midnight darkness of the rear. At each step we
took some new explosion would occur, seemingly severer than the one that preceded it; the whole
heavens in our rear were lit up in lurid glare, that added intensity to the blackness before
us. It was as if the gases, chained in the earth, had at last found vent, and the general conflagration
of the world was at hand, while we were retreating into the blackness of uncertain gloom and
chaos. We then knew that Richmond had been left to the fate of Petersburg, and we were on a
retreat to a new base.

On leaving Petersburg, Gordon's corps took the river road; Mahone, with his division, and all
other troops on this side of the James, the middle road, and Ewell and Elzey, with the Richmond
garrison, and other troops, the road nearest the James river. During the day following the
evacuation of Petersburg the Confederates made good progress, their route unimpeded by wagons
and artillery. But after the junction of Gordon's corps with Mahone and Early, with thirty
miles of wagons, containing the special plunder of the Post Doctors, Quartermasters and Post
Commissaries of Richmond, they went at a snail's pace, and it would have been no trouble for
an enterprising enemy to have overtaken them. Until they arrived at Amelia Courthouse, on the
4th of April, although a body of the enemy had followed them up, no attack had been made, and
it was only after leaving the Courthouse that the first dash by Sheridan's cavalry was made
on their wagon trains.

At Amelia Courthouse they were joined by the remnants of A. P. Hill's, Pickett's and Longstreet's
commands which, on the right, by disastrous fighting, demoralization and desertion, had dwindled
from thousands to hundreds. I have never yet seen an account of the operations of this part
of the Confederate army.

On the 5th, the Confederates entered the land of hills, and as they left the main road, and
took the road that led through them, it was thought that they were safe, as the hills present
so many splendid positions of defence. But how wearily they went along, averaging hardly a
half mile an hour. On the night of the 5th the Confederate army marched all night long, and
it was with intense satisfaction that the army saw the heavily laden Quartermaster, Doctors'
and Commissary wagons begin to cast up their plunder. The jaded horses and mules refused to
pull, and for miles the roads were strewn with every convenience, comfort and luxury that "Sunday-soldiering"
could devise. There is no doubt, but that for these wagons, Lee's escape would have been insured,
but they had to be protected, and the army dallied day and night by the roadside. On the morning
of the 6th it became evident that the Federals were near, and as the head of the Confederate
column emerged from a dense piece of woodland, and struck across an elevated opening, the first
gun of the day was opened on their marching column by a battery of artillery placed on a hill
about a mile off. The fact was, the Federals had caught up in the Confederate rear, and were
pushing them on their flank, and were striving to head them off.

Here began a scene that no pen can accurately describe. The wagons were hurried forward, regardless
of their contents, which, whether it remained in or was spilled out, was a matter of perfect
indifference to the demoralised and badly-scared drivers, who, with straining eyes and perspiring
bodies, plied their whips vigorously and put their jaded beasts to their best. The infantry
and some of the batteries of artillery were halted, and a line of battle formed to the rear
and on the left flank, and hardly was the formation made before the Federals were upon them.
Our lines checked them long enough to enable the wagons to move ahead, and then began a retreating
fight--a mode of battle I morally detest, as it is "fight and run." It will demoralise the
best troops in the world. At every hill divisions would alternately halt, and form lines of
battle and check the pursuers. As soon as proper disposition had been made on the next line
of hills the rear division would move off and pass the others, only to form again at the next
suitable defensive position. Thus the Confederates progressed until mid-day, by which time
the Federals had come up in full force and began to attack impetuously in the Confederate rear
and on their left flank. Before nightfall the battle seemed raging on their flank for miles
in the direction they were going, and in the rear the Federals were steadily pushing them,
and, by the time the Confederates reached a high range of hills in the vicinity of the "High
Bridge," over the Appomattox, it became necessary to abandon over a hundred wagons and several
batteries of artillery. After reaching the summit of the hill, the pursuit ceased. During the
day the fight at times was bloody, and many were killed and wounded on both sides. The Confederate
wounded were left on the field. Late in the evening Gen. Ewell, with the larger portion of
his command, were cut off and forced to surrender. The Confederates also took several hundred
prisoners.

The Confederate army, except Longstreet's command, crossed the river during the night, Gordon's
troops at the High Bridge going into bivouac on the opposite side, while Longstreet occupied
the hills at the river near the town of Farmville.

In the vicinity of Farmville, on the morning of the 7th, the haversacks of many of the men
were replenished for the first time since leaving Petersburg.

At early dawn the Federals made an attack on Gordon at the bridge, and on Longstreet on the
hills near Farmville. Setting the bridge on fire, and leaving one brigade to check the enemy,
the balance of Gordon's corps took the railroad track to Farmville, leaving the brigade skirmishing
sharply. Gordon's route was down the river, and nearly all the time in sight of the opposite
bank, which was crowded with masses of the foe, but they pursued the even tenor of their way
without hurry, and in fact, devilish slow to my anxious mind. On the high hills on the upper
side of the Appomattox, just beyond Farmville, it looked as if the Confederates intended to
give battle. The artillery was placed in position, and active skirmishing had begun with the
Federal advance, who had crossed on the heels of the Confederate retreating rear guard. The
lines of infantry were formed in order of battle, but it was only done to cover the movement
of the wagons, on another road than the one that leads along the railroad to Lynchburg, which
latter was in the possession of Grant. That portion of the Federal army which had crossed dashed
on recklessly, and seemed to think they had only a demoralised mob to contend with. By dash
and recklessness they drove the Confederate wagon guard in and cut the train in two, on the
road the wagons were traversing, but Grimes' division, happening to be near at hand, advanced
at a double-quick, attacked and charged the assailants, and without serious opposition routed
them and captured two hundred prisoners. This seemed to teach the assailants a lesson, and
that charge assured them that they were mistaken in supposing the whole army demoralised, for
after that whenever their infantry would approach the Confederate column they did so cautiously.
The fact was, every man in the army was disgusted and sick of the "fire and fall back" fighting
of the day previous, and had rather stopped and risked an old fashioned battle than continued
the retreat. After repulsing the Federals, Grimes' division followed the balance of the army,
as rear guard, for the day. Just as they entered the road they met Gen. Lee and his staff.
He stopped, took off his hat and saluted them for the lesson they had just given the pursuers,
and he received, in return, a rousing yell that demonstrated plainly that it mattered not how
the balance of the army felt, there was the same old mettle in that division still.

The Confederate army marched slowly on during all day of the 7th, and during the entire night,
but they were no longer molested in the rear. Occasionally the Federal cavalry would dash in
on a portion of their wagon train, kill a few horses, frighten drivers and Quartermasters,
and then scamper away, but no serious impediment was offered their march. The whole army had
left the main road and were traversing an out-of-the-way path through dense thickets of oak
and pine, and the natives on our way seemed wonder-stricken and frightened at our approach.

The Confederates continued to march steadily on during the 8th, and in the middle of the day
struck a better road, and made rapid progress till dark, when the rear were within four miles
of Appomattox Courthouse. The head of the column had reached Appomattox Courthouse. We had
begun to congratulate ourselves that the pursuit was over, and felt sure that we would make
the trip to Lynchburg, as it was only 24 miles off. Not a gun had been fired during the day,
and we went into camp early in the evening. But this was necessary, for the continuous marching
of the two days and nights previous had produced much straggling, and some of the brigades
were reduced to skeletons from this cause. One fact--a strange one, too, it appeared to me--was,
that our higher officers did not try to prevent this straggling. They seemed to shut their
eyes on the hourly reduction of their commands, and rode in advance of their brigades in dogged
indifference.

We went into camp without restraint.--No enemy seemed near. The bands of the divisions enlivened
the departing hours of day with martial music, and were applauded with the usual cheers of
the troops. The old spirit seemed to be returning. Before dark all had partaken of their food,
and were resting after a forty-eight hours march. As for myself, I had emptied my haversack
that night, and wrapped my blanket around me, and was in sound slumber before darkness set
in, intending to have one more good nap sure, as I did not exactly like the appearance of things.
The general officers were consulting together, and their looks plainly indicated a depressed
state of feeling; besides, before we had completed our meal the rumbling of distant cannonading
sounded warningly in front, and I closed my eyes and went to sleep to its music. The fact was,
the enemy's cavalry, in heavy force, at Appomattox, had disputed our advance--had cut off a
train of wagons and artillery who were unsuspectingly feeding, and orders had been given for
all the extra artillery to be cut down, and the commands disbanded.--However, I slept in blissful
ignorance of this state of things.

On the morning of the 9th Gordon's corps were aroused at 2 o'clock and hurried forward, passing
the entire wagon and artillery train of the army. When they arrived at Appomattox they found
the whole cavalry force drawn up in mass, and the troopers apparently asleep mounted. The fields,
gardens and streets of the village were strewn with troops, bivouacing in line of battle.--The
corps marched through and to the west of the village, and there formed a line, and the sharpshooters
were ordered to advance and relieve the pickets of Bushrod Johnson's division, who were in
front. The careless positions of things as they approached the front did not seem alarming,
and I was not prepared to believe an enemy was so close, when the picket informed us that "the
Yankees were in that woods," some two hundred yards in front.

But they were there. When day broke, I began to see the real state of affairs. The Federals
held possession of our only road to Lynchburg, and disputed our passage. After reconnoitering,
they were discovered to be dismounted cavalry, in heavy forces. Dispositions were made to attack
them, and about 10 o'clock the line was ordered forward. With ease they were routed and the
whole force driven fully two miles, and had they been all the Confederate line had to contend
with, the exit would have been insured. The Federal cavalry was driven upon its own infantry,
who were hastening forward and had just formed to advance. There the Confederate advance was
stopped, and in return, were forced back again to the Courthouse. Just as the divisions had
formed anew, to resist the advance of the enemy, while the skirmishers were engaged, and the
Richmond Howitser battery, (which fired the first gun at Bethel,) having already discharged
one volley, was loading for another, the order was given to cease firing, and the flag of truce
which terminated in our surrender was sent in. Twenty-three thousand men were surrendered by
Gen. Lee, of which number only a fraction over 8,000 were armed infantry.

While the pursuit of Lee's army by Grant's overwhelming forces was still in progress, the following
correspondence ensued between the two commanders:

APRIL 7th, 1865.

  R. E. LEE, General.

  LT. GEN. U. S. GRANT,
    Commanding Army of the United States.

       *       *       *       *       *

APRIL 8th, 1865.

To Lieut. Gen. U. S. Grant, Commanding United States Armies.

       *       *       *       *       *

APRIL 9th, 1865.

       *       *       *       *       *

APRIL 9th, 1865.

  Very respectfully.
  U. S. GRANT,
  Lieutenant General.

       *       *       *       *       *

H'DQ'RS ARMY NORTHERN VA.,

APRIL 9, 1865.

Gen. Lee and Gen. Grant met at the house of Mr. Wilmer McLean. General Lee was attended only
by Col. Marshal, one of his aids; with Grant there were several of his staff officers. The
two commanders greeted each other with courtesy.

General Lee immediately alluded to the conditions of the surrender, and said he would leave
the details to General Grant's own discretion. General Grant stated the terms of the parole;
that the arms should be stacked, the artillery parked, and the supplies and munitions turned
over to him, the officers to retain their side arms, horses, and personal effects. General
Lee promptly assented to the conditions, and the agreement of the surrender was engrossed and
signed by General Lee at half-past three o'clock in the afternoon.

A northern correspondent thus described the appearance of General Lee in this memorable interview:
"General Lee looked very jaded and worn, but, nevertheless, presented the same magnificent
phisique for which he has always been noted. He was neatly dressed in grey cloth, without any
embroidery or ensigna of rank, except three stars worn on the turned portion of his coat collar.
His cheeks were very much bronzed by exposure, but still shone ruddy underneath it all. He
is growing quite bald, and wears one of the side locks of his hair thrown across the upper
portion of his forehead, which is as white and fair as a woman's. He stands fully six feet
one inch in height, and weighs something over two hundred pounds, without being burdened with
a pound of superfluous flesh. During the whole interview he was retired and dignified to a
degree bordering on taciturnity, but was free from all exhibition of temper or mortification.
His demeanor was that of a thoroughly possessed gentleman, who had a very disagreeable duty
to perform, but was determined to get through it as well and as soon as he could.

It is to be fairly and cheerfully admitted that General Grant's conduct, with respect to all
the circumstances of the surrender exhibited some extraordinary traits of magnanimity. He had
conducted it with as much simplicity as possible, avoided sensation, and spared everything
that might wound the feelings or imply the humiliation of a vanquished foe. Such conduct was
noble. Before the surrender, General Grant had expressed to his own officers his intention
not to require the same formalities as are required in a surrender between the forces of two
foreign nations or beligerant powers, and to exact no conditions for the mere purpose of humiliation.

While the interview with reference to the surrender was taking place between the commanders,
a strange scene was transpiring between the lines of the two armies, and occupied the period
of the armistice. An informal conference and mingling of the officers of both armies gave to
the streets of the village of Appomattox Court House a strange appearance. On the Federal side
were Gens. Ord, Sheridan, Crook, Gibbon, Griffin, Merritt, Ayers, Bartlett, Chamberlain, Forsythe,
and Mitchie. On the Confederate side were Generals Longstreet, Gordon, Heth, Wilcox, and others.
The conference lasted some hour and a half. None but general officers were allowed to pass
through the skirmish line; there were mutual introductions and shaking of hands, and soon was
passed some whiskey, and mutual healths drank. Gradually the area of the conference widened.
The parties filled the streets and before this singular conference closed, some were seated
on the steps, and others, for better accommodations, chatted cosily, seated on a contiguous fence.

Between the skirmish lines of the two armies there was a great suspense, for it was felt that
great interest were at stake between them. Skirmish line confronted skirmish line, lines of
battle confronted lines of battle, cannon confronted cannon. Eager hopes hung on the interview
between the opposing great commanders of the two armies. Peace might follow this interview.
It might end in resumption of hostilities, in fiercest battle, in terrible carnage. The two
armies were plainly visible to one another. The Confederates skirted a strip of woods in rear
of the town. Through the vistas of the streets might be seen their wagon trains. The minutes
passed but slowly. The approach of every horseman attracted an eager look. Two o'clock had
been appointed by Grant for the resumption of hostilities. It arrived, and the Federal skirmish
line commenced to advance. The Confederate pickets were in plain sight, and stationary. A moment
more and the crack of the rifle would indicate the resumption of carnage. But a clatter of
hoofs is heard, and a flag of truce appears upon this scene, with an order from General Grant
that hostilities should cease until further orders.

After the interview at McLean's house General Lee returned to his own camp, about half a mile
distant, where his leading officers were assembled awaiting his return. He announced the result
and the terms. They then approached him in order of rank, shook hands, expressed satisfaction
at his course and their regret at parting, all shedding tears on the occasion. The fact of
surrender and the forms were then announced to the troops, and when General Lee appeared among
them he was loudly cheered.

At about four o'clock it was announced in Grant's army that the surrender had been consummated
and signed. And now the enthusiasm which had been restrained by uncertainty broke loose. The
various brigade commanders announced the joyful news to their commands, and cheers of the wildest
description followed. The men leaped, ran, jumped, threw themselves into each other's arms
and seemed mad with joy.

[ADVERTISEMENTS.]

NEW BOOKS.

JUST PUBLISHED,

BY MESSRS. WM. B. SMITH & COMPANY.

FIELD AND FIRESIDE PUBLISHING HOUSE.

NAMELESS.

BY FANNY MURDAUGH DOWNING.

[SECOND EDITION.]

One Volume, 16mo. paper,      $1.00

[THIRD EDITION.]

One Volume, 16mo. cloth,      $1.50

THE MOST REMARKABLE BOOK OF THE TIMES!

THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WORK OF THE AGE!

THE MOST CHARMING BOOK OF THE DAY!

The Author is compared to HANNAH MORE, MRS. EDGEWORTH, MRS. BRADDON and CHARLES DICKENS!

[From the Church Intelligencer.]

"The characters are all well sustained throughout.--Its elegant composition--its admirable
plot and its thorough consistency--are enough not only to give the book a ready sale, but to
establish the reputation of the authoress as a woman of genius and culture."

(From the Biblibal Recorder.)

"The story is told with skill and power, and those who commence reading it will not wish to
stop till it is finished."

(From the Petersburg, Va., Daily Index.)

"The volume is a handsome one, well bound and printed, and reflects credit on the publishing
house."

(From the Salem, N. C., Press.)

"The perusal of this book will prove a rich treat."

(From the Religious Herald, Richmond, Va.)

"It is a well written, interesting volume, of sound moral influence, and well worthy of perusal."

[From the Norfolk Daily Virginian.]

"The story runs on like a limpid brook--now in the sun, now in the shadow, but always clear."

(From the Statesville, N. C., American.)

"It is a thrilling story of heart-life and the fashionable world, and, aside from an absorbing
plot artistically interwoven, it abounds in suggestive thoughts and descriptive passages grand
and exquisite in character and finish."

[From the Philadelphia Daily Age.]

"The authoress of this book is a Virginian by birth, and a lady of many accomplishments. It
possesses much excellence. The publishers deserve great praise for the manner in which they
have sent the book from the press."

[From Daily Times, Charlotte, N. C.]

"Have read it with a thrill of pleasure rarely produced by an American novel.--The interest
of the story is sustained, throughout--in some instances INTENSELY EXCITING!--A vein of refinement
and culture runs through it which reminds us of HANNAH MORE, and MRS. EDGEWORTH."

[From Daily Progress, Raleigh, N. C.]

"A sweet story, full of pathos as instruction, and replete with both qualities.--The present
effort of Mrs. DOWNING will give her a claim to favoritism with the public exceeding that reached
by Mrs. M. E. BRADDON!"

[From the Daily Sentinel, Raleigh, N. C.]

"It is certainly a gem--of wonderful beauty and purity. The reader is kept in almost painful
doubt whether the lady's secret is a criminal one or not. In painting the character of Lady
Haughton, Mrs. DOWNING has succeeded in giving us a more womanly and natural creation than
DICKENS has in her counterpart, Lady Dedlock. We heartily commend the book--to all who desire
an INTELLECTUAL TREAT!"

[From Daily Sentinel, Richmond, Va.]

"A Tale of English Life which will add fresh honors to those already won.--The characters are
drawn up to life. All who read in this community will buy this charming book."

For sale at all the Bookstores. Will be sent to any part of the United States by mail upon
the receipt of the price.

LEE'S LAST CAMPAIGN.

BY CAPT. J. C. G.

32mo., Paper,      Price 20 cts.

A historical narrative of the final and thrilling events of the war in Virginia, commencing
with the battles around Petersburg, and following the movements of both armies until Lee's
surrender at Appomatox Court House--in short an important page of history heretofore unwritten.
Containing the official correspondence concerning the surrender, the interview between Gen.
Lee and Gen. Grant, appearance of Gen. Lee, his farewell address to the Army of Northern Virginia,
etc. etc.

THE DESERTER'S DAUGHTER.

BY W. D. HERRINGTON.

16mo. Paper,      Price 10 cts.

A story of the war in North Carolina. [One half off to trade.]

CASTINE.

BY EDWARD EDGEVILLE.

64pp. 16mo., Paper,      Price, 10 cts.

A novelette of charming interest. Scenes commence in Tennessee before the rebellion, and close
in Virginia during the war. [One half off to the trade.]

STANDARD SCHOOL BOOKS:

Messrs. SMITH & CO., having secured the use of copy-right for the Southern States on the NATIONAL
SERIES OF SPELLERS AND READERS, [By R. G. Parker and J. M. Watson] have just issued

THE NATIONAL PRIMER,

OR PRIMARY WORD BUILDER. Beautifully illustrated--64pp., 16mo., half bound,      price 30 cts.

Comprises about fifteen hundred monosyllables, none of which contain more than five letters.
It is believed that the pupil can easily acquire a thorough knowledge of the meaning and use
of these words, in the reading exercises, as well as their orthography and pronunciation in
the lists, as they are all arranged with regard to their formation, number of letters, and
vocal sounds.

NATIONAL ELEMENTARY SPELLER,

Richly illustrated; 160pp., 18mo., half bound,      price 35 cts.

It is so arranged as to teach orthography and orthoepy simultaneously. The vocabulary contains
several hundred euphonious and peculiarly significant words, heretofore not comprised in spellers
of this grade. All lists of words are strictly classified with regard to their formation, their
vowel sounds, alphabetic order, accent and number of syllables.

NATIONAL FIRST READER.

OR, WORD BUILDER. Finely Illustrated. 128pp., 16mo., half bound,   45 cts.

Its plan is entirely new and original. The first lesson consists of the words of one letter,
namely, A, I, and O. From these three words there are about sixteen other words which are formed
by affixing, and eight more by prefixing, a single letter. As the learner is able to read these
lessons of one and two letters, a reading lesson adapted to his capacity, and composed solely
of these words, is presented. Then follow a list of words of three letters, composed of words
of two letters with some other letter prefixed; a list formed from similar words of two letters,
by affixing an additional letter, etc.

IN PRESS:

[WILL BE READY ABOUT JANUARY 30TH.]

MOSSES FROM A ROLLING STONE.

BY TENELLA--MARY BAYARD CLARKE.

Author of "Reminiscences of Cuba," "Wood Notes," "Translations of 'Marguerite,'" "Lady Tartuffe,"
etc.

One Volume, 16mo. cloth,      Price $1.25.

Contains complete poetical writings of the popular author, and is a beautiful setting of all
the sparkling diamonds that have been found clinging to the "rolling stone" of a great life
as it washed with the ebb and flow of the seething tide of thought and imagination.

TO THE TRADE;--This Publishing House supply all their works as cheap as any house in the United
States.

All their publications sent to any part of the country, by mail or express, upon receipt of
price. Address

  WM. B. SMITH & CO., PUBLISHERS,
  RALEIGH, N. C.

MASONIC JEWELS,

Regalia, Lodge Furniture,

AND ALL THE

MASONIC BOOKS

PUBLISHED IN THIS COUNTRY KEPT CONSTANTLY ON HAND AT OUR SALES ROOMS.

  WM. B. SMITH & CO.,
  58 Fayetteville Street, Raleigh, N. C.

AMONG THE MASONIC BOOKS CONSTANTLY ON hand and for sale by us may be found the following popular
works, any of which will be sent by express or mail upon receipt of price:

A LEXICON OF FREE MASONRY, by Albert G. Mackey, M. D. 1 vol., 16mo., cloth, 524pp. Price $3.50

TEXT BOOK OF MASONIC JURISPRUDENCE, by Albert G. Mackey, M. D. 1 vol., large 24mo., 570pp.
Price $2.50

MANUAL OF THE LODGE, by Albert G. Mackey, M. D. 1 vol. 12mo., 225pp. Price $2.00

BOOK OF THE CHAPTER, by Albert G. Mackey, M. D. 1 vol. 24mo., 259pp. Price $2.00

PRINCIPLES OF MASONIC JURISPRUDENCE, by Jno. W. Simons, Past Grand Master, of New York, 1 vol.,
24mo., cloth, 219pp. Price $2.00

DIGEST OF MASONIC LAW, by Geo. Wingate Chase, 16mo., 456pp., cloth. Price $2.50

WEBB'S FREE MASON'S MONITOR, by Thos. Smith Webb--together with a Monitor of the Ancient and
Accepted Rite, thirty-three degrees, including the Ineffable Degrees--by E. T. Carson. 1 vol.,
16mo., cloth, 418pp. Price $2.00

THE RATIONALE AND ETHICS OF FREEMASONRY. By Aug. C. L. Arnold. LL. D. 16mo., 298pp., cloth.
Price $1.75

MANUAL OF THE ANCIENT ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE, with revised Constitutions, etc., by Will. M.
Cunningham. 16mo., 272pp., cloth. Price $2.25

THE STAR IN THE EAST. By Rev. Geo. W. Oliver, D. D., new edition, 12mo., 102pp., cloth. Price $1.50

THE BEAUTIES OF FREE MASONRY EXEMPLIFIED. By Rev. Geo. W. Oliver, D. D., paper. 25c.

THE GREAT OUTLINES OF SPECULATIVE FREE MASONRY. By Salem Town, LL. D., paper. 25c.

CROSS' MASONIC TEXT BOOK. Beautiful blue and gold edition, 32mo., 280pp. Price 85c.

POCKET EDITION CROSS' MASONIC TEXT BOOK, elegant gilt, in fine morocco tucks, 32mo., 284pp.
Price $1.25

POCKET EDITION ANDERSON'S CONSTITUTIONS, with masonic memoranda, in fine morocco tucks, gilt,
32mo., 212pp. Price $1.25

POCKET EDITION MASONIC DICTIONARY, and Manual Masonic Law, by G. W. Chase, in fine morocco
tucks, gilt, 32mo., 75pp. Price $1.00

ALSO:

LODGE AND CHAPTER ODES ON CARDS, elegantly gotten up. Price, per dozen, $1.50

WHITE LINEN APRONS. Price per dozen $10.00

JEWELS FOR LODGE. Price per set $35 to $50

JEWELS FOR R. A. CHAPTER. Price per set $40 to $60

Passages in italics are indicated by underscore.

The quote on page 52 is opened with marks but is not closed in the original text.

On page 13, the phrase "1st of March and 1st of April" is presented as in the original text.
It is most likely this text should read "31st of March and 1st of April".

The following misprints have been corrected:
  "Canfederates" corrected to "Confederates" (page 29)
  "overwhelmning" corrected to "overwhelming" (page 42)
  "opon" corrected to "upon" (page 45)
  "possesed" corrected to "possessed" (page 53)
  "contigious" corrected to "contiguous" (page 55)
  "thier" corrected to "their" (page 55)
  "ths" corrected to "this" (page 56)
  "consumated" corrected to "consummated" (page 57)

