Less regularly present, perhaps because of its different life history, is a small tick, Trombicula
sp. At times this parasite is very common, being present on nearly every individual rat, and
at other times specimens are difficult to find; it appears to be more commonly present in summer
and fall than at other seasons, and is found attached chiefly to the ears.

No internal parasites have been detected. The nocturnal and fossorial habits of the animal
seem to give complete protection against a form of parasite which is very common among some
other rodents of the Range Reserve, notably Lepus and Sylvilagus. Nearly all rabbits are infested
with "warbles," the larvæ of a species of bot-fly, Cuterebra (family Oestridae). Other small
mammals also are occasionally parasitized by the Cuterebra, but in the handling and examination
of perhaps 200 or more individuals of spectabilis and merriami, we have yet to find a single
case of infestation by an oestrid fly.

ABUNDANCE.

One's first impression of a well-occupied spectabilis area is that a large family must inhabit
each den, but, as previously mentioned, we have gradually been compelled to shift from this
conception to the idea of but a single animal to a mound, except when the young are present.
Therefore a census of the adult kangaroo rat population can readily be made, simply by counting
the mounds. Such a census affords at least a conservative estimate of the number of adult individuals
occupying a given area.

The first estimates of abundance on the Range Reserve were from actual counts of dens on areas
measured off for experimental fencing, and gave the figure of about two mounds to the acre.
From time to time rough estimates were made on different portions of the pastures, and these
checked well with the above. Later still, a careful count showed 300 mounds on approximately
160 acres (see p. 8), or 1.87 mounds per acre. Nine areas of 2 acres each, representing different
environmental conditions, were later selected in different portions of the Range Reserve, and
the dens accurately counted. The number of dens per 2 acres varied from none to a maximum infestation
of 12, neither extreme occurring over large areas. The total number of dens was found to be
43 on the 18 acres, or an average of 2.38 dens per acre.

From all these estimates it may fairly be concluded that two mounds, or two animals, per acre
is a conservative estimate for the infestation of the entire Range Reserve, with the possible
exception of small areas at its upper edges, where the altitude limit of spectabilis is passed.
It is, however, impossible to estimate the area of the State infested with kangaroo rats, for
some large stretches of fine grassland show no kangaroo rats whatever, while others have more
than are present on the reserve; and we have no estimates of the extent of either type.

ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS.

In May, 1894, Fisher found a ranchman at Willcox, Ariz., who complained more bitterly of the
depredations of spectabilis than of those of any other mammal.

On the United States Range Reserve the food material appropriated by the kangaroo rat during
good years is inappreciable. There is such an excess of forage grass produced that all the
rodents together make very little difference. But with the periodic recurrence of lean years,
when drought conditions are such that little or no grass grows, the effects of rodent damage
not only become apparent, but may be a critical factor determining whether a given number of
domestic animals can be grazed on the area (Pl. VIII, Fig. 2).

With two kangaroo rats to the acre (1,280 per square mile), there would be 64,000 animals on
the 50 square miles of the Range Reserve. If each rat stores 4 pounds of grass seeds and crowns
and other edible forage during the season (and in severe seasons we find that more crowns are
stored than under ordinary conditions), a total of 256,000 pounds, or 128 tons, of edible forage
are rendered unavailable to stock. In dry years it is probable that this amount of forage would
be of critical importance. Allowing 50 pounds of food a day for each steer, the forage destroyed
would be sufficient to provide for the needs of one steer for 5,120 days, or for the needs
of 14 steers for one year. On a stock ranch the size of the Range Reserve this might mean the
difference between success and failure.

It seems not unlikely, therefore, that during seasons of drought the banner-tailed kangaroo
rat, where it is abundant on the grazing ranges of the Southwest, may be a factor of critical
importance in relation to forage production and carrying capacity. It must be remembered, moreover,
that the stored material consists largely of seeds, so that this loss is of greater importance
than would be the case were it ordinary forage. Some of the range grasses of this region found
in greatest quantity in the stored material depend in large part, under certain conditions,
upon seed reproduction. Rehabilitation of a depleted range after severe drought and consequent
close grazing and trampling is retarded by the heavy toll of seed taken by the kangaroo rats.

CONTROL.

Kangaroo rats may be easily eradicated by the use of the poisoned grain used for prairie-dog
control by the Biological Survey and the University of Arizona Extension Service. This can
be obtained by application to the State representative of the Biological Survey or to the local
county agricultural agent, or may be mixed as follows:

     Formula for poisoned bait.--Dissolve 1 ounce of strychnine
     sulphate in 1-1/2 pints of boiling water. Add 1 heaping
     tablespoonful of gloss starch, previously mixed with a little cold
     water, and boil until a clear paste is formed. Add 1 ounce of
     baking soda and stir to a creamy mass. Add 1/2 ounce of glycerine
     and 1/4 pint of corn sirup and stir thoroughly. Pour over 16 quarts
     of rolled barley and mix well until every grain is evenly coated.
     Allow to dry before using.

     In bushel quantities use as above directed, 2 ounces of strychnine,
     2 ounces of soda, 1 ounce of glycerin, 1-1/4 ounces of starch,
     1-1/2 quarts of boiling water, and 5/8 pint of corn sirup.

     Scatter poison, when the natural food of the kangaroo rat is
     scarce, on clean hard places near the holes, 1 quart to 50 holes.

     If powdered strychnine alkaloid is used, prepare the hot starch
     paste first. Then sift strychnine and baking soda, previously
     thoroughly mixed, into the hot starch paste and stir to a creamy
     mass. Proceed as in the above directions with sirup, glycerin,
     etc.

     Use this poison within five days after mixing or retain in
     air-tight containers.

     Caution.--All poison containers and all utensils used in the
     preparation of poison should be kept plainly labeled and out of
     reach of children, irresponsible persons, and live stock.

     A spoonful of the poisoned grain scattered about the used entrances
     of a mound is sufficient, and prebaiting is not necessary, as with
     prairie dogs.

A word of caution should perhaps be offered in connection with control measures. As man has
come to occupy a greater portion of the earth's surface, and as he has become more and more
the master of his environment, he has inevitably disturbed the relationships of the birds and
mammals about him, has upset the balance of nature. If he kills the carnivorous species because
of their depredations on game and live stock he must be prepared to cope with the increased
hordes of rodents which feed on vegetation and on which the carnivorous animals act as a check.
If he destroys the rodents, he may remove the checks on certain noxious plants or insects.
One control measure often necessitates the adoption of another.

This is not to argue against control measures, for if our harmful species were not controlled,
agriculture in many sections would be impossible. Control measures, however, should be scientifically
founded and applied. The indiscriminate slaughter of supposedly harmful species of birds and
mammals in the guise of benefiting agriculture may do far more harm than good. Many of the
species which do some harm do far more good. The exact status of each suspected species should
be carefully determined through an adequate scientific investigation. If the species is condemned,
sound control measures should be thoroughly applied.

In grazing districts or in areas devoted to intensive agriculture the death sentence should
probably be passed on the banner-tailed kangaroo rat. It should be recalled, however, that
this is the largest and one of the handsomest of all its family, and that it is one of the
most characteristic and interesting of all the desert fauna; where extensive grazing or agricultural
operations are not undertaken, therefore, we feel that the kangaroo rat should be let alone,
unless its presence threatens infestation of valuable agricultural or grazing lands.

SUMMARY.

(1) Kangaroo rats may be separated with ease from all other mammals; the long tail and short
and weak fore feet separate them from the pocket gophers; the white hip-stripe distinguishes
them from the pocket mice. The decidedly larger size and the white-tipped tail separate Dipodomys
spectabilis spectabilis and D. deserti from D. merriami and D. ordii. The darker color and
vividly contrasted black-and-white tail of spectabilis distinguish it from deserti.

(2) Dipodomys s. spectabilis occurs in the open arid country of portions of the Lower and Upper
Sonoran Zones of Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Sonora, and Chihuahua. It lives in harder soil
than does deserti, and builds more conspicuous mounds.

(3) There is no evidence of intergradation or hybridization between spectabilis and deserti.

(4) Dipodomys s. spectabilis is nocturnal; it is gentle, and does not offer to bite when taken
in the hand; is silent for the most part; active; somewhat sociable with its fellows, but fights
in defense of its food stores; progresses chiefly by leaping; signals by a drumming or tapping
on the ground with its hind feet.

(5) The breeding season of spectabilis begins in January and continues into August. Whether
more than one litter is raised in a single season is unknown. The number of young in each litter
varies from 1 to 3, averaging 2.

(6) Dipodomys s. spectabilis does not hibernate, but provides food stores, mostly seeds, for
use during seasons when food would be otherwise unavailable. Storage in each den varies in
quantity from 5 grams (about 1/6 ounce) to 5,750 grams (12.67 pounds). Materials stored include
several important forage plants; for example, various species of Bouteloua and Aristida, with
B. rothrockii (crowfoot grama) the most important. Accessibility and abundance of different
plants have much to do with the kinds of storage found.

(7) The dens of spectabilis are the most notable of all kangaroo rat dwelling places. They
range from 6 inches to 4 feet in vertical height, and from 5 to 15 feet in diameter. Here the
kangaroo rat has its home, shelter, and food-storage chambers. Within the den is found a tortuous
network of burrows, with many storage and some nest chambers, the whole arranged so as to be
two to four stories high.

(8) Dipodomys s. spectabilis is not of great economic significance, except locally, in ordinary
seasons. During periods of extreme drought it may be of critical importance on grazing areas
from the standpoint of the carrying capacity of the range.

(9) Kangaroo rats are easy to poison by following the same formula as that used by the Biological
Survey for destroying prairie dogs.

(10) In many places unsuited to extensive grazing or agriculture spectabilis does no appreciable
damage. It is one of the most interesting of all the rodents peculiar to our Southwestern deserts,
and should not be molested except where it is destructive.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

ALLEN, J. A.

1895. On a collection of mammals from Arizona and Mexico, made by Mr. W. W. Price, with field
notes by the collector. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 7, art. 6, pp. 193-258. 17 figs. in text.

BABCOCK, S. M.

1912. Metabolic water: Its production and rôle in vital phenomena. Research Bull. No. 22, Univ.
Wisconsin Agr. Exp. Station, pp. 159 and 170, March.

BAILEY, V.

1905. Biological survey of Texas. North Amer. Fauna No. 25, Biol. Surv., U. S. Dept. Agr.,
pp. 222, 16 pls., 24 figs. in text.

CLEMENTS, F. E.

1905. Research methods in ecology. Lincoln, Univ. Pub. Co., pp. xvii, 334, 85 figs. in text.

GRIFFITHS, D.

1910. A protected stock range in Arizona. Bull. No. 177, Bur. Plant Ind., U. S. Dept. Agr.,
pp. 28, 6 pls., 1 fig. in text.

GRINNELL, JOSEPH.

1921. Revised list of the species in the genus Dipodomys. Journal of Mammalogy, vol. 2, No.
2, pp. 94-97, May 2.

MCATEE, W. L.

1921. Farm help from the birds. In Yearbook of the U. S. Dept. Agr. for 1920, pp. 253-270;
unnumbered figs. in text.

MERRIAM, C. H.

1890. Description of three new kangaroo rats, with remarks on the identity of Dipodomys ordii
of Woodhouse. In North Amer. Fauna No. 4, Div. Ornith. and Mamm. (Biol. Surv.), U. S. Dept.
Agr., 41-49.

NELSON, E. W.

1918. Smaller mammals of North America. Nat. Geog. Mag., vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 371-493; numerous
unnumbered figs. and colored pls. in text.