Then Providence worked upon the ingenuity of worldly-wise men,  and set them planning and studying
the question in all its  bearings, to devise new schemes of transportation on a scale not 
dreamed of hitherto. Watt, the Stephensons, Brunel, A. Maury,  and others, rose up to perfect
the various steam-machines  already known and in use; to investigate the currents of the  ocean,
the different qualities of its waters, its depth and  soundings, in order to make the paths
of the deep easier and  surer to navigators. The ingenuity of ship-builders effected a  revolution
in naval architecture, and rendered possible the  construction of vessels of from ten thousand
to twenty-five  thousand tons burden. Merchant companies and capitalists arose  to embrace
the whole world in their mighty speculations,  studying the capabilities of all countries for
trade, the most  desolate as well as the most inviting, the meanest as keenly as  the mightiest,
linking the whole world in one vast commercial  circle, that the European race might be borne
on to the  mercantile conquest of the universe; and all this came about,  doubtless, to effect
its deeper and more permanent moral  conquest by the despised, doom-trodden, starving, dying
Irishman, who laid claim to one arm, one possession only--his faith and  the blessing of the
Church.

Was not the Irish exodus intimately connected with all those  events? Was it not one of the
mightiest causes of all those  gigantic enterprises?

But where were the funds to be found for such immense  undertakings? The treasury of nations
is continually drained of  vast sums at home, and dare not draw away a part of its metallic
basis sufficient for such a purpose. Moreover, it is limited,  and needs the precious metals
as a solid foundation whereon to  rest, or the fabric built upon it will be the fabric of a
dream,  as was that of Law in France at the beginning of the eighteenth  century. The gold
and silver mines of Mexico and Peru seem  exhausted; the new ones of the Ural Mountains in
Northern Asia,  of the Atlantic coast of North America, were not adequate to  meet the demands
of such mighty operations.

Suddenly, in the year 1846, a Swiss captain, transformed into a  California settler, while
endeavoring to turn a water-fall in  his new home to some account, discovers gold-dust in the
sand.  As if by magic, the coast of California, hitherto neglected,  difficult of access at
the time, and consequently ignored by  mankind, notwithstanding its wealth in mineral and vegetable
productions, becomes at once the cynosure of all eyes, the hope  of all hearts, the most renowned
of all countries. Thither they  flock in crowds prom all parts of Europe and America, and a
steady flow of seventy million dollars annually is secured as a  basis for the new designs
of capitalists and merchants.

Other gold-fields are soon discovered all along the American  coast, on the Pacific, from Lower
California to Alaska, inviting  men to go thither and settle, just opposite to the Asiatic
Continent, separated from it only by the broad but easily- navigated Pacific Ocean.

Soon also, far away south in the antipodes, opposite to another  portion of Asia, rich gold-fields
are opened up in the newly- discovered Continent of Australia, attracting immigration toward
another spot, whence the Asiatic nations may also be reached  with greater facility and dispatch.

Whoever believes that Providence has something to do with the  affairs of men; whoever is wise
enough to see that this universe  is not the result of chance, and that its destinies are ruled
by  a superior power, must admit that when events as unexpected as  they are unprepared by
man come to pass--events which are so  connected together as to reveal the workings of a single
mind  and a great object at once, foreshadowed if not positively  foretold, God is the designer,
and a stronger hand is at work  than the combined power of men and devils could successfully
oppose. This is a truth which was not unknown to Homer,  centuries ago, when he described Jove
holding our globe  suspended in space at the end of a chain, and defying all the  inferior
gods to move the world in a direction contrary to that  given by his mighty arm.

The image, striking and poetical as it is, for a Christian is  too material. We speak more
correctly when we say that Mind -- the Divine Mind--is the great invincible and invisible Force
of  which all material forces are but the created agents, and by  which all inferior minds
must stand or fall, conquer or fail. A  man must be blind with that incurable blindness--of
will--who  cannot see it acting in and on the universe, and even  controlling the lower designs
of puny intellects. The reverent  eye which sees the vastness of the plan, the multitude of
its  agents, aiding and seconding it consciously and unconsciously,  recognizes it, and the
supreme object of its workings, Love,  infinite Love.

And we distinguish with grateful surprise all those  circumstances visibly appearing in the
great fact which has just  been so imperfectly sketched, and which will come home to us  still
more forcibly when the workings of its lesser details come  to be examined. Here, for instance,
at the moment of writing  these lines (March, 1872) we learn from the morning newspapers  of
the recent arrival of the Japanese embassy at San Francisco;  that its members had been dispatched
to this country to study  European, or, as we call them, Japhetic institutions, for the  purpose
of copying and adapting them to their own wants. The  embassy, detained at Salt Lake City by
the snow-blockade on the  Pacific Railroad, refused to go back, temporarily, to California,
and made up their mind to wait in Utah, until it is possible  for them to proceed.

Pacific Railroad, Salt Lake City, San Francisco, Japanese  embassy, adoption of European manners
by the Mikado and daimios-- who can fail to gather from these words and details the  conception
of means to an end, and that end the one we now begin  to study?

The first circumstance coming under our review and indicative of  a loving design on the part
of Providence, a circumstance not  marked sufficiently at the time, is the preservation by
the  English themselves of the poor remnants of the Irish race, which  the first working of
the plan had so frightfully decimated and  left in danger of being utterly wiped out. Had they
disappeared,  would Japhetism have become a blessing to the Asiatic nations?  The Catholic,
looking abroad and casting his mind's eye over the  vast European field, to all seeming so
rich in every production,  yet in reality so sterile morally, peering with awe and horror 
into the Japhetic caldron--for such it is--seething and bubbling  to the brim, full of the
most deadly poisons and noxious  substances, ready at any moment to overflow in infected waves
and sweep over the unfortunate countries which look to it so  anxiously for blessings, a torrent
of black destruction,  spreading around naught but desolation and barrenness--the  Catholic
eye, seeing all this, can find but one answer to our  query. The Asiatic races cannot hope
to be benefited by the  introduction of European manners among them, unless the same  great
movement carries in its train the holy Catholic Church:  and as that introduction must be brought
about by English- speaking leaders, the only English-speaking Catholics of  numerical significance
must be the instruments of the adorable  designs of Providence.

That this assertion may not appear too sweeping, it is only  enough to instance the example
of India, which England has held  long enough to convert, at least in part, had she so desired
and  been moved by the Spirit of God, yet to-day India stands in a  worse relation toward Protestantism
than when Protestantism in  the name of Christianity, but in the person of a British trader,
settled down in its midst. What good has Hindostan derived?

But, at this very moment, the whole Irish race is at the mercy  of the English Government and
people. Only let the same kind of  vessels continue to be dispatched filled with Irish emigrants,
and the whole race must disappear within a short period, or  become so reduced in numbers that
its operations as a race, on a  large scale, will be unproductive of sufficient results.

And it is well to mark that at the time of this outpouring of  the race, as long before, and
almost constantly since, there  were Englishmen rejoicing at the glorious result which death
by  plague and famine was about to produce. It were easy to quote  many a barbarous passage
from the London Times, expressive of  the most satanic joy, not only at the departure of the
Irish  from the "United Kingdom," but at the prospect of their ultimate, or rather proximate
disappearance out of the world altogether.

Yet it was the same English Government and people which, feeling, let us hope, some compassion
at the sight of this new woe of  the "Niobe of nations," determined to try and save her children,
as, if they must cast them out, at least it should he alive and  full of health on a foreign shore.

Laws, therefore, were passed, regulating the quantity and  quality of provisions, particularly
of drinkable water, the  number of the crew and working-men, the ventilation of the  vessel,
the number of passengers to be received, etc.

Still, these first attempts at humanity seem to have been rather  faint-hearted, as the following
passage from Mr. Maguire's  "Irish in America," showing how they were carried out, and how
inadequate was the remedy applied in 1848, will explain:

"The ships, of which such glowing accounts were read on Sunday  by the Irish peasant near the
chapel-gate, were but too often  old and unseaworthy, insufficient in accommodation, not having
even an adequate supply of water for a long voyage, and, to  render matters worse, they, as
a rule, were shamefully  underhanded. True, the provisions and the crew must have passed  muster
in Liverpool; . . . but there were tenders and lighters  to follow the vessel out to sea; and
over the sides of that  vessel several of the mustered men would pass, and casks, and  boxes,
and sacks would be expeditiously hoisted, to the  amazement of the simple people who looked
on at the strange and  unaccountable operation. And, thus, the great ship, with its  living
freight, would turn her prow toward the West, depending  on her male passengers, as on so many
impressed seamen, to  handle her ropes or to work her pumps in case of accident. What  with
bad or scanty provisions, scarcity of water, severe  hardship, and long confinement in a foul
den, ship-fever reaped  yet a glorious harvest between-decks, as frequent splashes of  shot-weighted
corpses into the deep but too terribly testified.  Whatever the cause, the deaths on board
the British ships  enormously exceeded the mortality on the ships of any other  country. According
to the records of the Commissioners of  Emigration for the State of New York, the quota of
sick per  thousand stood thus in 1848 British vessels, 30; American, 9 3/5;  German, 8 3/5.
It was yet no unusual occurrence for the survivor of  a family of ten or twelve to land alone,
bewildered and broken- hearted, on the wharf at New York; the rest, the family, parents, and
children, had been swallowed in the sea, their bodies  marking the course of the ship to the
New World."

It would seem, then, that those first English regulations, by  which British ships were to
pass muster at Liverpool before  sailing, were not very efficient; the figures of mortality
quoted by Mr. Maguire are too eloquent; and it would be a  pleasure to us to be able to say
with certainty that the more  stringent and better executed laws afterward enforced did not
proceed from the Commission of Emigration, which originated in  New York with some generous-hearted
Irish-Americans.

Our readers will have noticed that, even in 1848, with all the  apparent desire on the part
of England to save the remnants of  the Irish nation, the mortality on board British ships
was more  than three times that on board American vessels, and nearly four  times greater than
that on board German ships. Why this  difference? And why should it be so enormous?

It is possible that to the Legislature of New York State chiefly, and soon after to the Congress
of the United States at  Washington, which enacted stringent laws for the protection of  immigrants
at sea, belong the chief honor of saving hundreds of  thousands of Irish lives, and that England,
whether urged by the  effects of good example, or for very shame, soon followed in  their wake.

But, whatever the cause may have been, it is a heart-felt  pleasure to record the fact that
from 1849, when an act of  Parliament, entitled the "Passengers Act," imposed on ship- owners
and captains of vessels strict conditions for the welfare  of emigrants, government control
on this subject became every  year more immediate and severe.

Not only were the vessels, provisions, water, medicine chests,  etc., more carefully examined,
but the passengers themselves  were compelled to undergo a careful inspection as to their 
health and wardrobe.

And, a thing which had never been done before, the space  allotted to each emigrant on deck
and between-decks was  determined and subjected to serious control, so that no  overcrowding
of passengers should take place. The penalties,  also, on delinquents became even severe; heavy
fines were  imposed, and in some cases transportation to a penal settlement  was decreed against
the more offensive outrages on humanity.

If all abuses failed to be corrected by such laws, it is because  the most stringent enactments
can, to a greater or less extent,  always be evaded by those desirous of evading them; but
there is  every reason to believe that the legislators were honest in  their intent of remedying
the glaring evils which previously  obtained, and, to a great extent, their efforts met with
success, as is evidenced by the fact that the mortality on board of  British vessels has shown
yearly a remarkable diminution since  that time. According to the "Twenty-fourth General Report,"
the  mortality was: In 1854, 0.74 per cent., already a very  remarkable diminution on previous
averages; in 1860, it was  reduced to 0.15 per cent. This was the percentage for vessels  going
to North America only.

The first operation of the missionary people was to plant the  living tree of Catholicism in
the United States, and so  powerfully forward its growth, that other spiritual plants of a
noxious kind, and weeds that go by the name of creeds, should  gradually be choked up; finally,
let us hope, to disappear.  While speaking on this subject, and laying before the reader the
necessary details, we desire not to be held forgetful of the  efforts made in a like direction
by Catholic immigrants of other  nationalities. A word has already been said of the early 
influence of the French in the North and of the Spaniards in the  South, in establishing the
Church in North America. The German  children of the true Church, though at first not so conspicuous,
have for a long time taken, and are now particularly taking, an  active part in the dissemination
of the faith, and there can be  no doubt that, with the daily increase of German immigration,
their large numbers must in course of time make a lasting  impression on the territory where
they settle. But the French,  the Spaniards, and the Germans, must forget their language  before
they become widely useful in the great work before them;  and thus the Irish form the only
English-speaking people on whom  the brunt of the battle must fall. Moreover, we treat only
of  the Irish race.

The wonderful history of the spread of Catholicity in North  America by the Irish, in the northern
part of the United States  particularly, would call for an array of details which it would
be impossible to furnish here in extenso. An imperfect sketch  must suffice.

First comes the consideration that, when the wave of immigration  touched the continent, it
might have been feared that, by its  absorption into a dry and parched soil, the aggregate
loss would  have reduced to a mere nothing the ultimate gain. There were no  churches for the
new worshippers, no priests to administer to  them the sacraments of Christ, no Catholic school-teachers
to  train their children. That is to say, these means of  preservation and of propagation were
so few and so far between,  that many of the newly-arrived immigrants were forced to  establish
themselves in places where they could find none of  those, to them, priceless advantages.

The spiritual dearth was not indeed so great as that previously  described. The zeal of bishops
and priests, and teachers from  regular orders, had been so active in its labors, that, aided
by  the liberty which the institutions of the country afforded,  results, astonishing indeed,
had already rewarded their efforts.  But, after all, what were these compared with the demands
so  suddenly laid upon them by such a rapid increase of numbers? It  might be said with truth
of multitudes of immigrants, that the  position in which they then found themselves was very
little  different from that of their predecessors at the beginning of  the century.

As late as 1834, Archbishop Purcell, of Cincinnati, wrote:  "There are places in which there
are Catholics of twenty years  of age, who have not yet had an opportunity of performing one
single public act of their religion. How many fall sick and die  without the sacraments! How
many children are brought up in  ignorance and vice! How many persons marry out of the Church,
and thus weaken the bonds that held them to it!"-- (Annals of  the Propagation of Faith, Vol.
viii.)

To the same annals, three years later, Dr. England, of  Charleston, sent the long letter in
which he detailed the  innumerable losses sustained by the Church in America in  consequence
of the want of spiritual assistance. The letter was,  in fact, a cry of anguish wrung from
him by the sight he  witnessed.

Such was the universal feeling among those who could rightly  appreciate the fatal consequences
of the rush of Catholics to  the New World without any provision prepared for their reception.
And yet all these laments and apprehensions preceded the vast  inpouring of immigrants subsequent
to the year 1846. What must  have been the consequent losses then? Yet, looking now, in 1872,
at the present state of the Church in the Union, who can say  that this inpouring and rush,
unprepared as the country was for  its reception, was not one of the greatest means devised
by  Providence, not only for establishing the Catholic Church in  this country for all time,
but likewise as a preparation for  further developments, not only on this continent, but on
the  part of many a nation now sitting in "the shadow of death!"  Deplorable, indeed, were
the losses, but permanent and wonderful  the gain.

The first effect of the great calamity which occurred along the  St. Lawrence and its tributaries,
in 1847, was to reduce the  immigration to Canada to insignificant numbers, and,  proportionately
increase that to the United States in a  quadruple ratio. Massachusetts and Connecticut, in
New England,  and the great States of New York and Pennsylvania, were now the  chief places
of resort for the new-comers; and from New York,  principally, they began to pour, in a long,
steady stream, away  by the Erie Canal, westward to the great lakes.

All along these lines, congregations were, providentially,  already formed; and, in the passage
of the stream, they were  immediately, as by magic, increased in some instances, to a  tenfold
proportion. The labors of the clergy were  correspondingly multiplied, and efforts were immediately
made to  obtain new recruits for its ranks. Then appeared a very strange  fact, which, at the
time, was remarked upon by everybody, but  has never been satisfactorily explained. Wherever
the number of  worshippers in a church induced the chief pastors to have  another constructed
in the neighborhood, upon the completion of  the new edifice, the old one seemed to suffer
no diminution in  attendance, and the congregation attending the new one gave no  evidence
of having hitherto been uncared for. This very  remarkable fact was of such frequent occurrence
that it could  not be a delusion, or an exceptional case having its origin in  some extraordinary
cause; it was evidently a providential  dispensation, akin, in a spiritual sense, to the miraculous
multiplication of loaves, twice mentioned in the Gospel.

There have certainly been numerous examples of this, in the city  of New York particularly,
for more than twenty years; and  probably the same thing is occurring at the time of the present
writing.

Then, another fact occurred, deplored by many, chiefly by Mr.  Maguire, in the interesting
work already quoted from, yet,  evidently of a providential character also, and consequently
eminently fruitful, and, it may be said, adorable in its depth.  The Catholic immigrants, although
in their own country  agriculturists for the most part, forgot the tilling of the soil  as
soon as they reached their new home, and settled down in  great numbers in all the large cities,
on the line they pursued  toward the West. Many special evils resulted from this, detailed
at length by those whose wonder it excited, and who strove, for  excellent motives, to thwart
this providential movement. But the  immense good which immediately followed from it, and which,
within a short time, was to be greatly increased, was never  mentioned in reply to the reasons
advanced by these well-meaning  complainants. The first result of it was the sudden and  necessary
creation of many new episcopal sees in all large  cities, where churches were being rapidly
built, or had already  been erected in astonishing numbers.

Suppose the Catholics had, following the old bent, turned  themselves chiefly to the tillage
of the soil, and buried  themselves away in scattered country villages and farms, how  long
would the creation of those new sees have been delayed? Who  is ignorant of the effect of a
new see on the propagation of  Catholicity? Cities which otherwise would have numbered among
their population only a few hundred Catholics, scarcely  sufficient for the filling of one
small edifice, saw at once one- third, one-half, or even the larger portion of their population
clamoring for a Catholic bishop, and all the institutions a  bishopric brings in its train.
It is unnecessary to furnish  examples of this; they are around us.

Yet one difficulty seems to cast some doubt on this view of the  subject, and strengthen the
opposition of those who ardently  advocated the country as the true home for Irish Catholics;
and,  as the point involves a universal interest, it is better to  discuss it at once in its
chief bearings.

