That, of course, at once explained everything. It explained his own father and his home, it
explained poor Mrs. Prothero and her two sons who were drowned, it explained Stephen's cousin
who was never free from the most painful rheumatics, and it explained Stephen himself who was
never afraid of any one or anything. Peter stared at Frosted Moses, whose white beard was shining
in the fire-place and his boots were like large black boats; but the old man was drawing at
his pipe, and had made his remark apparently in connection with nothing at all. Peter was also
disappointed to see that the room at large had paid no attention to the declaration.

Courage. That was what they were all there for, and soon, later in the evening, he would take
his beating like a man, and would not cry out as he had done the last time. And then, at the
thought of the beating, he shivered a little on his tall chair and his two short legs in their
black stockings beat against the wooden bars, and wished that he might have stayed in some
dark corner of The Bending Mule during the rest of the night and not go home until the morning--or,
indeed, a very much better and happier thing, never go home again at all. He would get a worse
beating for staying out so late, but it was something of a comfort to reflect that he would
have been beaten in any case; old Simon Parlow, who taught him mathematics and Latin, with
a little geography and history during six days of the week, had given him that morning a letter
to his father directed in the old man's most beautiful handwriting to the effect that Master
Westcott had made no progress at all in his sums during the last fortnight, had indeed made
no attempt at progress, and had given William Daffoll, the rector's son, a bleeding nose last
Wednesday when he ought to have been adding, dividing, and subtracting. Old Parlow had shown
him the letter so that Peter knew that there was no escape, unless indeed Peter destroyed the
paper, and that only meant that punishment was deferred.

Yes, it meant a beating, and Peter had hung about the town and the shore all the afternoon
and evening because he was afraid. This fact of his fear puzzled him and he had often considered
the matter. He was not, in any other way, a coward, and he had done, on many occasions, things
that other friends of his own age had hung back from, but the thought of his father made him
quite sick with fear somewhere in the middle of his stomach. He considered the matter very
carefully and he decided at last (and he was very young for so terrible a discovery) that it
was because his father liked beating him that he was afraid. He knew that his father liked
it because he had watched his mouth and had heard the noise that came through his lips. And
this, again, was rather strange because his father did not look as though he would like it;
he had a cold face like a stone and was always in black clothes, but he did not, as a rule,
show that he was pleased or angry or sorry--he never showed things.

Now these words of Frosted Moses explained everything. It was because his father knew that
it was Courage that mattered that he liked to beat Peter ... it was good for Peter to learn
Courage.

"'Tisn't life that matters" ... it isn't a beating that matters....

Frosted Moses was a great deal wiser than old Simon Parlow, who, in spite of his knowing so
much about sums, knew nothing whatever about life. He knew nothing whatever about Courage either
and shook like a leaf when his sister, Miss Jessel Parlow, was angry with him, as she very
often had reason to be. Peter despised the old man with his long yellow tooth that hung over
his lower lip, and his dirty grey hair that strayed from under his greasy black velvet cap
(like wisps of hay). Peter never cared anything for the words or the deeds of old Parlow....
But Frosted Moses! ... he had lived for ever, and people said that he could never die. Peter
had heard that he had been in the Ark with Noah, and he had often wished to ask him questions
about that interesting period, about Ham, Shem and Japheth, and about the animals. Of course,
therefore, he knew everything about Life, and this remark of his about Courage was worth considering.
Peter watched him very solemnly and noticed how his white beard shone in the fire-light, how
there was a red handkerchief falling out of one enormous pocket, and how there was a big silver
ring on one brown and bony finger ... and then the crowd of sailors at the door parted, and
Stephen Brant came in.

II

Stephen Brant, the most wonderful person in the world! Always, through life, Peter must have
his most wonderful person, and sometimes those Heroes knew of it and lived up to his worshipping
and sometimes they knew of it and could not live up to it, but most frequently they never knew
because Peter did not let them see. This Hero worship is at the back of a great deal that happened
to Peter, of a great deal of his sorrow, and of all of his joy, and he would not have been
Peter without it; very often these Heroes, poor things, came tumbling from their pedestals,
often they came, in very shame, down of their own accord, and perhaps of them all Stephen only
was worthy of his elevation, and he never knew that he was elevated.

He knew now, of course, that Peter loved him; but Peter was a little boy, and was taken by
persons who were strong and liked a laugh and were kind in little ways. Stephen knew that when
Peter grew older he must love other and wiser people. He was a very large man, six foot three
and broad, with a brown beard, and grey eyes like Peter's. He had been a fisherman, but now
he was a farmer, because it paid better--he had an old mother, one enemy, and very many friends;
he had loved a girl, and she had been engaged to him for two years, but another man had taken
her away and married her--and that is why he had an enemy. He greeted his friends and kissed
poor Jane Clewer under the mistletoe, and then kissed old Mother Figgis, who pushed him away
with a laugh and "Coom up there--where are yer at?"--and Peter watched him until his turn also
should come. His legs were beating the wooden bars again with excitement, but he would not
say anything. He saw Stephen as something very much larger and more stupendous than any one
else in the room. There were men there bigger of body perhaps, and men who were richer--Stephen
had only four cows on his farm and he never did much with his hay--but there was no one who
could change a room simply by entering it as Stephen could.

At last the moment came--Stephen turned round--"Why, boy!"

Peter was glad that the rest of the room was busied once more with its talking, laughing, and
drinking, and some old man (sitting on a table and his nose coming through the tobacco-smoke
like a rat through a hole in the wall) had struck up a tune on a fiddle. Peter was glad, because
no one watched them together. He liked to meet Stephen in private. He buried his small hand
in the brown depths of Stephen's large one, and then as Stephen looked uncertainly round the
room, he whispered: "Steve--my chair, and me sitting on you--please."

It was a piece of impertinence to call him "Steve," of course, and when other people were there
it was "Mr. Brant," but in their own privacy it was their own affair. Peter slipped down from
his chair, and Stephen sat down on it, and then Peter was lifted up and leant his head back
somewhere against the middle button of Stephen's waistcoat, just where his heart was noisiest,
and he could feel the hard outline of Stephen's enormous silver watch that his family had had,
so Stephen said, for a hundred years. Now was the blissful time, the perfect moment. The rest
of the world was busied with life--the window showed the dull and then suddenly shining flakes
of snow, the lights and the limitless sea--the room showed the sanded floor, the crowd of fishermen
drinking, their feet moving already to the tune of the fiddle, the fisher girls with their
coloured shawls, the great, swinging smoky lamp, the huge fire, Dicky the fool, Mother Figgis,
fat Sam the host, old Frosted Moses ... the gay romantic world--and these two in their corner,
and Peter so happy that no beatings in the world could terrify.

"But, boy," says Stephen, bending down so that the end of his beard tickles Peter's neck, "what
are yer doing here so late? Your father ...?"

"I'm going back to be beaten, of course."

"If yer go now perhaps yer won't be beaten so bad?"

"Oh, Steve! ... I'm staying ... like this ... always."

But Peter knew, in spite of the way that the big brown hand pressed his white one in sympathy,
that Stephen was worried and that he was thinking of something. He knew, although he could
not see, that Stephen's eyes were staring right across the room and that they were looking,
in the way that they had, past walls and windows and streets--somewhere for something....

Peter knew a little about Stephen's trouble. He did not understand it altogether, but he had
seen the change in Stephen, and he knew that he was often very sad, and that moods came upon
him when he could do nothing but think and watch and wait--and then his face grew very grey
and his eyes very hard, and his hands were clenched. Peter knew that Stephen had an enemy,
and that one day he would meet him.

Some of the men and girls were dancing now in the middle of the room. The floor and the walls
shook a little with the noise that the heavy boots of the fishermen made and the smoky lamp
swung from side to side. The heat was great and some one opened the window and the snow came
swirling, in little waves and eddies, in and out, blown by the breeze--dark and heavy outside
against the clouded sky, white and delicate and swiftly vanishing in the room. Dicky the Fool
came across the floor and talked to Stephen in his smiling, rambling way. People pitied Dicky
and shook their heads when his name was mentioned, but Peter never could understand this because
the Fool seemed always to be happy and cheerful, and he saw so many things that other people
never saw at all. It was only when he was drunk that he was unhappy, and he was pleased with
such very little things, and he told such wonderful stories.

Stephen was always kind to the Fool, and the Fool worshipped him, but to-night Peter saw that
he was paying no heed to the Fool's talk. The Fool had a story about three stars that he had
seen rolling down the Grey Hill, and behold, when they got to the bottom--"little bright nickety
things, like new saxpennies--it was suddenly so dark that Dicky had to light his lantern and
grope his way home with that, and all the frogs began croaking down in the marsh 'something
terrible'--now what was the meaning of that?"

But Stephen was paying no attention. His eyes were set on the open window and the drifting
snow. Men came in stamping their great boots on the floor and rubbing their hands together--the
fiddle was playing more madly than ever--and at every moment some couple would stop under the
mistletoe and the girl would scream and laugh, and the man's kiss could be heard all over the
room; through the open window came the sound of church bells.

Stephen bent down and whispered in the boy's ear: "Yer'd best be going now, Peter, lad. 'Tis
half-past nine and, chance, if yer go back now yer lickin' 'ull not be so bad."

But Peter whispered back: "Not yet, Stephen--a little while longer."

Peter was tremendously excited. He could never remember being quite so excited before. It was
all very thrilling, of course, with the dancing and the music and the lights, but there was
more than that in it. Stephen was so unlike himself, but then possibly Christmas made him sad,
because he would be thinking of last Christmas and the happy time that he had had because his
girl had been with him--but there was more than that in it. Then, suddenly, a curious thing
happened to Peter. He was not asleep, he was not even drowsy--he was sitting with his eyes
wide open, staring at the window. He saw the window with its dark frame, and he saw the snow
.. and then, in an instant, the room, the people, the music, the tramping of feet, the roar
of voices, these things were all swept away, and instead there was absolute stillness, only
the noise that a little wind makes when it rustles through the blades of grass, and above him
rose the Grey Hill with its funny sugar-loaf top and against it heavy black clouds were driving--outlined
sharply against the sky was the straight stone pillar that stood in the summit of the Grey
Hill and was called by the people the Giant's Finger. He could hear some sheep crying in the
distance and the tinkling of their bells. Then suddenly the picture was swept away, and the
room and the people and the dancing were before him and around him once more. He was not surprised
by this--it had happened to him before at the most curious times, he had seen, in the same
way, the Grey Hill and the Giant's Finger and he had felt the cold wind about his neck, and
always something had happened.

"Stephen," he whispered, "Stephen--"

But Stephen's hand was crushing his hand like an iron glove, and Stephen's eyes were staring,
like the eyes of a wild animal, at the door. A man, a short, square man with a muffler round
his throat, and a little mouth and little ears, had come in and was standing by the door, looking
round the room.

Stephen whispered gently in Peter's ear: "Run home, Peter boy," and he kissed him very softly
on the cheek--then he put him down on the floor.

Stephen rose from his chair and stood for an instant staring at the door. Then he walked across
the room, brushing the people aside, and tapped the little man with the muffler on the shoulder:

"Samuel Burstead," he said, "good evenin' to yer."

III

All the room seemed to cease moving and talking at the moment when Stephen Brant said that.
They stood where they were like the people in the Sleeping Beauty, and Peter climbed up on
to his chair again to see what was going to happen. He pulled up his stockings, and then sat
forward in his chair with his eyes gazing at Stephen and his hands very tightly clenched. When,
afterwards, he grew up and thought at all about his childhood, this scene always remained,
over and beyond all the others. He wondered sometimes why it was that he remembered it all
so clearly, that he had it so dramatically and forcibly before him, when many more recent happenings
were clouded and dull, but when he was older he knew that it was because it stood for so much
of his life, it was because that Christmas Eve in those dim days was really the beginning of
everything, and in the later interpretation of it so much might be understood.

But, to a boy of that age, the things that stood out were not, of necessity, the right things
and any unreality that it might have had was due perhaps to his fastening on the incidental,
fantastic things that a small child notices, always more vividly than a grown person. In the
very first instant of Stephen's speaking to the man with the muffler it was Dicky the Fool's
open mouth and staring eyes that showed Peter how important it was. The Fool had risen from
his chair and was standing leaning forward, his back black against the blazing fire, his silly
mouth agape and great terror in his eyes. Being odd in his mind, he felt perhaps something
in the air that the others did not feel, and Peter seemed to catch fright from his staring eyes.

