"Let who will give me a plot, I will write their dialogue." (Extract from Uncommon-place Book
of Mr. O. WILDE.) Now when the author of A Woman of No Importance and of Lady Windermere's
Fan has to find his own materials for a plot ("'Play-wrights' materials for plots made up.'
Idea for Literary and Dramatic Advertisement" Note-book, O. W.)--well, he does find them, and
makes them his own. ("Adoption not adaptation. A clear distinction.--N.B. I confer the 'distinction'"
O. W.) Certainly "Our OSCAR" possesses the happy knack of turning out some well-polished epigrams
up to Drawing-room date. And so it happens that, during the first two Acts, when Mr. WILDE'S
dramatis personæ are all gathered together, with nothing to do and plenty to say, their conversation
is light and airy, with an occasional sparkler coming out ("A summer night, with, at intervals,
a brilliant meteor flashing through the sky." Uncom. P. B., O. W.), that crackles, goes pop
like the weasel of the old song, and "then is heard no more," as was the case with Macbeth's
poor player, and, as he was a poor player, his fate was not undeserved.--(Mem. "A Lady Nickleby
or Duchesse de Malapropos, to misquote.--For example, she might say, as quoting Shakspeare,
'Life's but a walking candle.'" O. W.)

We all remember how poor Mr. Dick couldn't keep King Charles's Head out of his manuscript.
The Author of No Importance is similarly affected. Left to himself for a plot, he cannot keep
melodrama out of his play, and what ought to have been a comedy pure and simple (or the reverse)
drops suddenly into old-fashioned theatrical melodrama. During the first two Acts Lady Hunstanton,
Lady Caroline Pontefract, Mrs. Allonby, Lord Illingworth, The Venerable James Daubeny, D.D.,
talk on pleasantly enough until interrupted by the sudden apparition of the aforesaid King
Charles the First's Head, represented by the wearisome tirades, tawdry, cheap, and conventional,
belonging to the Lytton-Bulwerian-Money period of the Drama, of which a considerable proportion
falls to the share of the blameless Miss JULIA NEILSON, who, as la belle Américaine, HESTER
WORSLEY, in her attitude towards her audience, resembles the blessed Glendoveer, inasmuch as
it is "hers to talk, and ours to hear." Deeply, too, does everyone sympathise with lively Mrs.
BERNARD BEERE, who, as Mrs. Arbuthnot, a sort of up-to-date Mrs. Haller, is condemned to do
penance in a kind of magpie costume of black velvet, relieved by a dash of white, rather calling
to mind the lady whom CHARLES DICKENS described as "Hamlet's Aunt," her funereal attire being
relieved by a whitened face with tear-reddened eyes. It is these two characters, with Gerald
Arbuthnot, Mr. FRED TERRY, who, like the three gruesome personages in Don Giovanni, will intrude
themselves into what might have been a pleasant, interesting comedy of modern manners, if only
it had had a good comedy plot.

Taken as a whole, the acting is admirable. Mr. TREE, as the titled cad, Lord Illingworth, is
perfect in make-up and manner. Certainly one of the many best things he has done. It is a companion
portrait to the other wicked nobleman in The Dancing Girl. ("There is another and a worse wicked
nobleman" N. B., O. W.) But this is no fault, and, indeed, it would be difficult, if not impossible,
to find fault with Mr. TREE'S Lord Illingworth. Mrs. TREE as Mrs. Allonby, is a very charming
battledore in the game of repartee-shuttlecock, who with eight other principal characters in
the piece, has nothing whatever to do with the plot. To the character of Lady Hunstanton, as
written in the Mrs. Nickleby vein, and as played by Miss ROSE LECLERCQ, the success is mainly
due; and "for this relief much thanks." It is here and in the comedy characters of the Archdeacon
(Mr. KEMBLE excellent in this) and of Lady Caroline Pontefract (who couldn't have a better
representation than Miss LE THIÈRE) that Mr. O. WILDE shows what he can do as a writer of comedy,
both in the quality of the material and its introduction at the right moment. ("The right speech
at the wrong moment, or the wrong speech at the right moment, both are fatal. Thus is it that
comedies become tragedies, and tragedies comedies." U.P.N.B., O. W.) At the Haymarket the "play's"
not "the thing," it is the playing. ("Likewise the writing," O. W.)

However, it is not for the plot, or for the Bulwery-Lyttony orations, or for the familiar melodramatic
situations that audiences will seek the Haymarket. No, it will be to hear the Christy-Minstrel
epigrammatic dialogue in the first two Acts, to laugh heartily at Miss LECLERCQ as Lady Nickleby
Hunstanton, to smile on the Archdeacon and Lady Caroline, and to enjoy the first-rate acting
all round.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMS, FROM THE O. W. UNCOMMONPLACE BOOK.

"Essentials for success of modern play are 'Latitude and Platitude.' First being risky is saved
by second."

Receipt for Play-making.--First catch your epigrams: preserve them for use: serve with sauce
piquante un pen risquée distributed impartially among a variety of non-essential dramatis personæ,
invented for the purpose. Provide fine old crusted copybook moral sentiments, to suit bourgeois
palate: throw in the safe situation of some one concealed, behind door or window, listening
to private conversation. Add one well-tried effective dramatic situation to bring down curtain
on penultimate Act, and there's a stage-dish to set before the appreciative B. P., if only
it can be presented to them effectively garnished by a clever and popular Manager at a first-class
theatre.

       *       *       *       *       *

FLOWERS OF FASHION.

The Botanical Afternoon Fête of last Wednesday was a brilliant gathering in brilliant weather.
Privileged is "the Inner Circle" to have in its midst these lovely gardens. "The Flowers that
bloom in the Spring, tra la!" were all out uncommonly early--long before the earliest worm,
which hasn't a chance against these very early risers. "All a-growing!" on the part of the
flowers, and "all a-blowing" on the part of the Band of the Second Life Guards. Among the distinguished
company present we noticed the Crimson Queen, looking immensely well, the blushing Duchess
of ALBANY, the Duchesse de VALLOMBROSA, Admiral COURBET, in a striking costume of "deep yellow
splashed with red" (where had he been?), the Ladies DAPHNE PINK and CALLAS WHITE, and Maréchal
NIEL. For "Uriah Heep," who "loves to be 'umble," a Silver Medal was awarded to Mr. PIKE. "The
prize, that's my point," observed the sharp PIKE. Funny Fish PIKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PENNY WISE.--The new import of the latest Budget may be aptly called "A Penny for your Thoughts,"
as no one pays a tax upon his income as it really exists, but as (for Income-tax assessment
purposes) he believes it to be.

THE PICK OF THE R.A. PICTURES.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 18. John Hare, Esq., as seen and painted by Sir JOHN E. MILLAIS, Bart., R.A., "The Hare
Apparent"--to every spectator. But what an unpleasant position! The eminent Actor is either
studying a part, or has the Box-office account-book in his hand, and wants a quiet moment for
serious thought or close calculation; and yet, in the next room to him (No. 19), one of Mr.
ORCHARDSON'S young ladies is singing and playing a yellow chrome-atic scale, and in the room
overhead (No. 17), Mr. NETTLESHIP'S tiger has broken loose, and is taking a bath. When rescued
from these surroundings, this will remain at home a Hare-loominous picture for the family.

No. 28. "Toe-Toe chez Ta-Ta." Miss TOETOE, in blue, at work and looking down, says to the other
girl, TATA, who is maliciously smiling at her, "Oh dear! I do hope that no one will look at
my right thumb or my toes! O Mr. WOODS, A., why was my right thumb left like this?"

No. 34. In this Mr. MORLEY FLETCHER shows us a Female Martyr in Tomartyr-coloured dress, preparatory
to being taken off to the Auto da fé.

No. 45. "An Undress Rehearsal" STUART G. DAVIS.

No. 49. "On the Temple Steps." By JOHN GRIFFITHS. For years we've known that GRIFFITHS is "the
safe man" to follow. But, unless this is a work of pure imagination, anyone well acquainted
with the Temple Pier and the Temple Steps will naturally ask, "Where are the Steam-boats?"

Nos. 51, 52, and 53. The first is a Harmony in Sea by Mr. HENRY MOORE, A., and the second is
Mr. MILLER'S--(WILLIAM not JOSEPH MILLER)--Colonel Hornsby-Drake. This Drake seems out of his
element, as he ought to have been floating about with the wild fowl that belong naturally to
the picture below.

Nos. 63-66.

  "Four little whitey boys out for a run,
  Ate early greeny food. Then there were none!"

Painted by AMY SAWYER. "Not a work of imagination, my dear little boys, because you were seen
by AMY--that is, AMY saw yer!"

No. 70. Study in Pâtisserie. Design for a chocolate ornament covered with sugar. Recommended
by Messrs. CLARK AND HAMILTON.

No. 71. Lion in Desert. Very tame. Mr. HERBERT DICKSEE.

No. 76. The New Skirt Dance. . . We strongly recommend the study of this picture to admirers
of the "Skirt Dance." It shows how one of the male sex may attempt it--that is, according to
the idea of the designer, HERBERT DICKSEE.

No. 88. Colonel W. Barnardiston. "First Chairman of West Suffolk County Council." Painted by
HUBERT HERKOMER, R.A. If he is "First Chairman," it doesn't matter what he is afterwards, since
he has been immortalised by the admirable painting of HUBERT HERKOMER. He'll remain "First
Chairman" in the Dramatis Personæ of this year's Catalogue, at all events, and be H. H.'s "Perpetual
First Chairman," too, be the other where he may.

No. 103. "Elder Bush." By H. W. B. DAVIS, R.A. From the title you might expect it to be the
portrait of a Presbyterian "Elder" named "BUSH." But it isn't. Look at it. It is the sweetest,
most natural, perfectest of charming "bits" of rural Nature in the whole show. There's no beating
about this bush; in fact this Elder Bush is one that is very hard to beat.

No. 130. His Grace the Duke of Devonshire. Encore! Bravo, Mr. HUBERT HERKOMER. You're are a-going
it this year, you are, Sir! You've given the Duke all his Grace, and there's a kind of orange
tint about him, which, just now, is not without its political signification.

No. 132. We must go to Kennington (T. B. KENNINGTON) to see "The Queen of Love." She is sitting
on a tiger's skin, and has her hand on the head of the savage beast, which shows its fangs.
"A fang-see subject," says 'ARRY JOKER.

No. 158. HONEYMOONERS. "Here we are again!" Same kind of Stone Fruit from MARCUS STONE, R.A.
"Sparkles this Stone as it was wont!"--Cymbeline. ii., 4. [To be continued in our next.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMONG THE IMMORTALS AT THE ROYAL ACADEMY BANQUET LAST SATURDAY.--H.R.H. made one of his usually
happy speeches; the Duke of CAMBRIDGE, the Earl of ROSEBERY, and Lord HERSCHELL represented
the comedy element; while Lord KELVIN and Mr. LESLIE STEPHEN were perfect in what, theatrically
speaking, is termed "the heavy lead;" and certainly their speeches were--ahem!--weighty. Pretty
to note how His Scarlet-robed Eminence entered the room, not only with a grace all his own,
but with His Grace of CANTERBURY as well. Never was the President, Sir FREDERICK LEIGHTON,
more effective in all his speeches, and especially when replying to the toast of "The Academy,"
where the perfection of his speech lay in the subtle concealment of its art, and in the genuine
earnestness of his advice to students urbi et orbi.

       *       *       *       *       *

