After one or more such discourses the people were called upon by name, commanded to rise from
their seats, and standing in the midst of the congregation publicly confess their sins. If
the confession was not full and complete, it was made the duty of the members of the Church,
or any one of them who knew that the party confessing had committed a crime which he or he
had not divulged, to then make public the same.

Unless the party then confessed, a charge was preferred against him or her for a violation
of covenants, and either full confession and repentance immediately followed, or the sinful
member was slain for the remission of sins - it being taught by the leaders, and believed by
the people, that the right thing to do when a sinner did not repent and obey the Council, was
to take the life of the offending party and thus save his or her everlasting soul. This was
called Blood Atonement. The members who fully confessed their sins were again admitted into
the Church and rebaptized, taking new covenants to obey any and all orders of the Priesthood
and refuse all manner of assistance, friendship, or communication with those who failed of
strict obedience to the authorities of the Church. The most deadly sin among the people was
adultery, and many men were killed by the Danites for that crime.

Brother Rosmos Anderson was a Danish man who had come to Utah with his family to receive the
benefits arising from an association with the Latter-day Saints. He had married a widow lady
somewhat older than himself; and she had a daughter who was fully grown. The girl was anxious
to be sealed to her stepfather. Anderson was equally anxious to take her for a second wife,
but Bishop Klingensmith had set his eye on her, and desired her for himself.

At one of the meetings Anderson and his stepdaughter confessed they had committed adultery,
believing that if they did so that Brigham would allow them to marry when he learned the facts.
Their confession being full, they were rebaptized and received into full membership. They were
then placed under covenant that if they again committed adultery Anderson should suffer death.

Soon after this a charge was laid against Anderson before the Council, accusing him of adultery
with his stepdaughter. This Council was composed of Bishop Klingensmith and his two counselors;
it was the Bishop's Council. The Council voted that Anderson must die for violating his covenants.
Bishop Klingensmith went to Anderson and told him the judgment was that he must die by having
his throat cut, so that the running of his blood would atone for his sins.

Anderson, being a firm believer in the doctrine of Blood Atonement and the teachings of the
Mormon Church, made no protest, but asked half a day to prepare for death. His request was
granted. His wife was ordered to prepare a suit of clean clothing, in which to have her husband
buried, and informed that he was to be killed for his sins, she being directed to tell those
who inquired after her husband that he had gone to California.

Bishop Klingensmith and Danite James Haslem dug a grave in a field near Cedar City, and that
night, about twelve o'clock, went to Anderson's house and told him to make ready to obey the
Council. Anderson got up, dressed himself, bid his family good- by, and without remonstrance
accompanied those he believed were carrying out the will of Almighty God. They went to the
place where the grave was prepared, Anderson kneeling by the side of the grave and praying.
Bishop Klingensmith then cut Anderson's throat and held him so that his blood ran into the grave.

As soon as he was dead they dressed him in his clean clothes, threw him into the grave and
buried him. They then carried his bloody clothing back to his family, and gave them to his
wife to wash, when she was again instructed to say that her husband was in California. She
obeyed their orders.

No move of that kind was made in Cedar City unless by order of the Council or of the High Council.
Anderson was killed just before the Mountain Meadows massacre. The killing of Anderson was
a religious duty and a just act. It was justified by the people, for they were bound by the
same covenants, and the least word of objection to thus treating the man who had broken his
covenant would have brought the same fate upon the person wicked enough to raise his voice
against the Church authorities.

Brigham knew that I was not a man who liked to take life. I was well known as one that stood
high in the confidence of Brigham, and was close-mouthed and reliable. I knew of many men being
killed in Nauvoo by the Danites. It was then the rule that all the enemies of the Prophet Joseph
should be killed, and I know of many a man who was quietly put out of the way by the orders
of Joseph and his apostles while the Church was there. It has always been a well understood
doctrine of the Church that it is right and praiseworthy to kill every person who speaks evil
of the Prophet. This doctrine was strictly lived up to in Utah, until the Gentiles arrived
in such numbers that it became unsafe to follow the practice; but the doctrine is believed,
and no year passes without one or more of those who have spoken evil of Brigham being killed,
in a secret manner. Springfield, Utah, was one of the Church hotbeds, and more men were killed
there, in proportion to population, than in any other part of Utah. In that settlement it was
certain death to say a word against the authorities, high or low.

Brother Warren Snow was bishop of the Church at Manti, San Pete County, Utah. He had several
wives, but there was a fair young woman in the town that Snow wanted for a wife. He made love
to her with all his powers, went to parties where she was, visited her at her home, and proposed
to make her his wife. She thanked him for the honor offered, but told him she was engaged to
a young man, a member of the Church, and consequently could not marry the old priest.

This was no sufficient reason to Brother Snow. He told her it was the will of God that she
should marry him, and she must do so; that the young man could be got rid of - sent on a mission
or dealt with in some way so as to release her from her engagement; that, in fact, a promise
made to the young man was not binding when she was informed that it was contrary to the wishes
of the authorities.

The girl continued obstinate.

The "teachers" of the town visited her and advised her to marry Bishop Snow. Her parents, under
the orders of the Counselors of the Bishop, also insisted that their daughter marry the old man.

She still refused.

Then the authorities called on the young man and directed him to give up the girl. This he
steadfastly declined to do. He was promised Church preferment, celestial rewards, and everything
that could be thought of - all to no purpose. He said he would die before he would surrender
his intended wife.

This resistance of authority by the young people made Bishop Snow more anxious than ever to
marry the girl. The young man was ordered on a mission to some distant locality. But the mission
was refused.

It was then determined that the rebellious young man should be forced by harsh treatment to
respect the advice and orders of the Priesthood. His fate was left to Bishop Snow.

It was decided to call a meeting of the people who lived true to counsel, to be held in the
schoolhouse in Manti, at which the young man should be present, and dealt with according to
Snow's will. The meeting was called. The young man was there, and was again requested to surrender
the young woman to Snow, but he refused.

The lights were then put out. An attack was made on the young man. He was tied down with his
back to a bench, when Bishop Snow took a bowie knife and slashed and mutilated him. They left
the young man weltering in his blood. During the night he succeeded in releasing himself from
his confinement, and dragged himself to some haystacks, where he lay until the next day, when
he was discovered by friends. The young man has been an idiot or quiet lunatic ever since.

Bishop Snow took soon occasion to get up another meeting at the schoolhouse, so as to have
the people of Manti and the young woman that he wanted to marry attend the meeting. When all
had assembled the old man talked to the people about their duty to the Church, their obligation
to obey counsel and the dangers of refusal; and called attention to the case of the young man.
The young woman was sealed to Bishop Snow.

CHAPTER XIX - THE MOUNTAIN MEADOWS

My time I find is getting short. To continue as I have the story of the little details and
what befell as we crossed the plains for the promised land of Utah would need more days than
I have left me. I will go then direct to the story of the Mountain Meadows troubles for which
I am to die, as I desire that the facts as they occurred should be known. As a duty to myself,
I purpose to give a statement of all I know in that affair. I did not act alone; I had many
to assist me at Mountain Meadows.

Those who were connected with the massacre, and took part in the transaction, were moved by
a religious duty. All were acting under the orders and by command of their Church leaders.
The immediate orders for the killing of the emigrants came from those in authority at Cedar
City. I and those with me moved by virtue of positive orders from Brother Haight and his associates.

Before I started on my mission to the Mountain Meadows I was told by Brother Haight that his
orders to me were the result of full consultation with Bishop Dame and all in authority. The
massacre was decided on by the head men of the Church.

To approach this subject properly I must step backward several years. After the destruction
of Nauvoo, when the Mormons were driven from the State of Illinois, I shared the fate of my
brethren, and partook of the hardships and trials that befell them from that day until the
time of the settlement of Salt Lake City, in the then wilderness. After reaching Salt Lake
I stayed but a short time, when I went to live at Cottonwood, where the mines were afterwards
discovered by General Connor and his men during the late war. I was just getting fixed to live
there, when I was ordered to go into the interior and aid in forming new settlements and in
opening up the country. I had no wish or desire, save to know and do the will of Brigham, since
I had become his adopted son. I believed that Brigham spoke by direction of the God of Heaven,
and I would have suffered death rather than disobey any request of his.

At the command of Brigham, I took one hundred and twenty-one men, went in a southern direction
from Salt Lake City, and laid out and built up Parowan. George A. Smith was the leader and
chief man in authority in that settlement. I acted under him as historian and clerk of the
Iron County Mission, until January, 1851. I went with Brigham, acted as a committeeman, and
located Provo, St. George, Fillmore, Parowan, and other towns, and managed the location of
many of the settlements in southern Utah.

In 1852 I moved to Harmony, and built up that settlement. I remained there until the Indians
declared war against the whites and drove the settlers into Cedar City and Parowan, for protection,
in the year 1853. I removed my then numerous family to Cedar City, where I was appointed Captain
of the Danites, and commander of Cedar City.

After I had commanded at Cedar City about one year I was ordered to return to Harmony and build
the Harmony Fort. This order, like all other orders, came from Brigham. When I returned to
Harmony and commenced building the fort, the orders were given by Brigham for the reorganization
of the Danites at Cedar City. The old men were requested to resign and younger men were appointed
in their places.

About the 7th of September, 1857, I went to Cedar City from my home in Harmony, by order of
Brother Haight. I did not know what he wanted of me, but he had ordered me to visit him, and
I obeyed. If I remember correctly, it was on Sunday evening that I went there.

When I got to Cedar City I met Haight on the public square of the town. Haight was then President
of that Stake of Zion, and the highest man in the Mormon Priesthood, and next to Bishop Dame
in southern Utah, and in the command of the Iron District. The word and command of Haight were
the law in Cedar City at that time, and to disobey his orders was death; be they right or wrong,
no Saint was to question them; it was obedience or death.

When I met Haight I asked him what he wanted with me. He said he must have a long talk with
me on private and particular business. We took blankets and went over to the old Iron Works,
and lay there that night, so that we could talk in safety.

After we got to the Iron Works Haight told me about the train of emigrants. He said that the
emigrants were a rough and abusive set of men. That they had, while traveling through Utah,
been abusive to the Mormons. That they had insulted many of the Mormon women. That the abuses
heaped upon the people by the emigrants during their trip from Provo to Cedar City had been
constant and shameful; that they had burned fences and destroyed growing crops; that they had
poisoned the water, so that all people and stock that drank of the water became sick, and many
had died from the effects of the poison. That these vile Gentiles publicly proclaimed that
they had the very pistol with which the Prophet Joseph was murdered, and had threatened to
kill Brigham and all of the apostles. That, when in Cedar City, they said they would hang Brigham
by the neck until he was dead, before snow fell in the Territory. They also said that Johnston
was coming with his army from the East, and they were going to return from California with
soldiers, as soon as possible, and desolate the land and kill every Mormon man, woman, and
child they could find in Utah. That they violated the ordinances of the town of Cedar, and
had, by armed force, resisted the officers who tried to arrest them for violating the law.
That after leaving Cedar City the emigrants camped in the company, or cooperative field just
below Cedar City, and burned the fencing, leaving the crops open to the herds of stock. Also
that they had given poisoned meat to the Corn Creek tribe of Indians, which had killed several
of them, and that they and their Chief, Konosh, were on the trail of the emigrants, and would
soon attack them. These things, and much more of like kind, Haight told me as we lay in the
dark at the old Iron Works.

Brother Haight said that unless something was done to prevent it the emigrants would rob every
one of the outlying settlements in the south, and that the whole Mormon people were liable
to be butchered by the troops the emigrants would bring back with them from California. I was
then told that the Council had held a meeting that day, to consider the matter, and it had
been decided by the authorities to arm the Indians, give them provisions and ammunition, and
send them after the emigrants. The Indians were to give them a brush, and if they killed part
or all of them, so much the better.

"Brother Haight, who is your authority?" I said.

"It is the will of all in authority," he replied. "The emigrants have no pass to go through
the country, and they are to be killed as common enemies, for the country is at war now. No
man has a right to go through this country without a written pass."

We lay and talked much of the night, and during that time Haight gave me instructions as to
what to do, and how to proceed in the affair. He said he had consulted with Bishop Dame, and
everyone had agreed to let the Indians use up the whole train if they could. Haight then continued:

"I expect you to carry out your orders."

Then I knew I must obey, or die. I had no wish to disobey, for my superiors in the Church are
the mouthpieces of Heaven, and it is an act of godliness to obey any and all orders given by
them, without asking questions.

My orders were to go home to Harmony and see Carl Shirts, my son- in-law, an Indian interpreter,
and send him to the Indians in the south, to notify them that the Mormons and Indians were
at war with the "Mericats" (as the Indians called all whites that were not Mormons), and bring
the southern Indians up and have them join with those from the north, so their force would
be sufficient to make a successful attack on the emigrants.

It was agreed that Haight would send Nephi Johnson, another Indian interpreter, to stir up
what other Indians he could find, so that we might have a large enough force to give the emigrants
a good hush. In conclusion Haight said to me:

"These are the orders that have been agreed upon by the Council, and it is in accordance with
the feelings of the entire people. Some of the Indians are now on the warpath, and all of them
must be sent out; all must go, so as to make the thing a success."

It was then intended that the Indians should kill the emigrants, and make it an Indian massacre,
and not have any whites interfere with them. No whites were to be known in the matter; it was
to be done by the Indians, so that it could be laid to them, if questions were asked. We agreed
upon the whole thing, how each should act, and left the Iron Works, and went to Haight's house
and got breakfast. After breakfast I made ready to start, and Haight said to me:

"Go, Brother Lee, and see that the instructions of those in authority are obeyed; and as you
are dutiful in this, so shall your reward be in the Kingdom of God, for God will bless those
who willingly obey counsel, and make all things fit for the people in these last days."

At this time the Mormons were at war with the United States, and the orders to the Mormons
were to kill and waste away our enemies, but lose none of our own people These emigrants were
from the section of country most hostile to our people, and it was the will of every true Mormon
that the enemies of the Church should be killed as fast as possible, and inasmuch as this lot
had men among them that had helped kill the Prophets in the Carthage jail, the killing of them
would be keeping our oaths and avenging the blood of the Prophets. I will give my talk with
Brother George A. Smith.

In the latter part of the month of August, 1857, about ten days before the people of Capt.
Fancher, who met their doom at Mountain Meadows, arrived at that place, Gen. George A. Smith
called on me at one of my homes in Washington City, Washington County, Utah Territory, and
wished me to take him round by Fort Clara, via Pinto Settlements, to Hamilton Fort and Cedar
City. He said:

