No more talk now of five Russians running in twenty Roumanians; and we shall hear quite a different
story presently. And not alone had the soldiers risen in Muscovite esteem, but the Russians
were beginning to understand that there might be some virtue in the commanders also; for about
September 1, or a day or two previously, they so far admitted their superiority as to invite
Prince Charles to take the command-in-chief of the whole Russo-Roumanian army before Plevna,
which he did, with the Russian general Zotoff as chief of his staff and second in command.

On this occasion he issued an address to the Roumanian soldiers, reminding them that success
for the Turks would mean pillage and desolation in their fatherland, assuring them that, although
their numbers were few, he had confidence in their courage, and in their ability to retain
for Roumania the good opinion which she deserved and enjoyed amongst the nations of Europe.
He concluded by announcing, in modest terms, his own appointment as Commander-in-chief of the
allied armies.

[Footnote 179: According to Col. Fife Cookson the Bulgarians, during this war, were guilty
of atrocities as deep-dyed as any that had previously caused such indignation in Europe; but
he also says (p. 23), 'In this war armed Bulgarians resisting the Turks were looked upon as
rebels, and received no quarter.']

[Footnote 180: War Correspondence, vol. i. pp. 131-132.]

[Footnote 181: War Correspondence, p. 82.]

[Footnote 182: Ibid. p. 390.]

V.

On August 31, Osman Pasha had made a sortie against the besiegers, in which he was eventually
repulsed with heavy loss, and then it was that under the new command a fresh attack on Plevna
was decided upon. In order, however, to understand the events which followed, and the part
taken therein by the Roumanians, it is necessary that we should briefly describe the position
and constitution of the forces engaged, and refer to the operations which preceded the assault.

The scene of the long-continued struggle is an undulating country, and Plevna, the centre of
attack and defence, is in the hollow of a valley running in a northerly and southerly direction.
The ground adjacent to this valley was described by one of the war correspondents as consisting
of great solid waves with their faces set edgeways to the valley of Plevna. To describe it
in detail here would be impossible, but the positions of the attacking and defending armies
were very simple. The Turkish positions were, roughly speaking, 'a horseshoe, with its convexity
pointing east, and the town of Plevna standing about the centre of the base.' Another writer
compares it to 'a reaping-hook, with the point opposite Bukova, the middle of the curve opposite
Grivica, the junction of the handle close on to Plevna, and the end of the handle at Krishine.'

The Russians had been surrounding this horseshoe, leaving the base open, and the form of their
attack on this occasion was in the line of their environment straight to their front. The main
point of interest in the struggle, so far as we are concerned, is the Turkish redoubt of Grivica
or Grivitza, the strongest of all the positions of defence: this was situated on the toe, if
we may so call it, of the horseshoe, and directly opposite was the Russo-Roumanian centre.

The Russo-Roumanian army numbered about 80,000 infantry, of whom 28,000 were Roumanians, in
two corps, under Colonels George and Alexander Angelescu, and 10,000 cavalry, whereof 4,000
were Roumanians. The whole Roumanian division was commanded by General Cernat; the Russians
by Baron Krüdener, General Kriloff, Prince Meretinsky, and the brave but erratic General Skobeleff;
and this army of 90,000 men was provided with 250 field and 20 siege guns. The number of the
defenders under Osman Pasha is estimated at about 70,000 men.

Here is a concise account of the attack. After the unsuccessful sortie of Osman Pasha on August
31, in which the Russians recovered all the positions temporarily occupied by the enemy, there
was a partial cessation of hostilities before Plevna until September 6. Meanwhile, on the 3rd,
a force of 22,000 Russians under Meretinsky, including a brigade of Cossacks commanded by Skobeleff,
succeeded, after a sanguinary conflict, in driving 7,000 Turks from the village of Loftcha
and a defensive position west of it, which they permanently occupied.[183] This operation had
the effect of cutting off the supplies of Osman Pasha from the south. An artillery duel then
followed between the whole of the attacking and defending armies, which lasted until the 11th,
and, judging from the long and careful accounts of the correspondents, the firing seems to
have had little effect on either side. In the interim the Roumanians were posted opposite the
Grivitza Redoubt, which, as we have already said, was the most formidable of all the Turkish
defences. Meretinsky and Skobeleff were in the vicinity of the Loftcha road; and Kriloff and
Krüdener were moving about in co-operation, the former having posted himself on the Radisovo
height with the forces under his command.[184] Of the Grivitza and the Roumanian operations
we shall speak more fully hereafter. At the other points of attack nothing serious happened
until the 11th, when, a general assault being ordered, the attack of Kriloff and Krüdener was
directed against a position known as the 'Mamelon,' south of Plevna, whilst Skobeleff made
a vigorous assault upon a double redoubt on the south-east, the object being to carry these
positions which were believed to be the most vulnerable, whilst the Roumanians were 'holding'
the Turks at their strongest redoubt--the Grivitza. Supported by Roumanian artillery, Kriloff
attacked the 'Mamelon' three times during the day, each time with fresh forces; but he was
as often repulsed with terrible loss, the third attack and defeat lasting only twenty minutes.
In fact, Kriloff and Krüdener were repulsed all along the line. Skobeleff was somewhat more
fortunate, having begun his attack after Kriloff's second reverse. With a loss of 2,000 men
he succeeded in carrying the Turkish position; and at a further sacrifice of 3,000 he held
it for a time only, for it was commanded by the Krishine redoubt (which was the ultimate object
of his operations) on his left, and by Plevna on the north. The Turks attempted in vain five
times to dislodge him. Skobeleff supplicated time after time for support, but it only arrived
when, after the sixth Turkish attack--this time successful--he had been forced to withdraw,
and was retreating to his old ground. The closing scene of his day's operations has been frequently
described, but as his recent escapade gives fresh interest to anything concerning him, it will
lose nothing by repetition: 'It was just after this that I met General Skobeleff the first
time that day. He was in a fearful state of excitement and fury. His uniform was covered with
mud and filth, his sword broken, his cross of St. George twisted round on his shoulder, his
face black with powder and smoke, his eyes haggard and bloodshot, and his voice quite gone.
He spoke in a, hoarse whisper. I never before saw such a picture of battle as he presented.
I saw him again in his tent at night. He was quite calm and collected. He said, "I have done
my best. I could do no more. My detachment is half destroyed; my regiments do not exist. I
have no officers left. They sent me no reinforcements, and I have lost three guns." They were
three of the four guns which he placed in the redoubt upon taking it, only one of which his
retreating troops had been able to carry off. "Why did they refuse you reinforcements?" I asked.
"Who was to blame?" "I blame nobody," he replied; "it is the will of God!"'[185]

[Footnote 183: War Correspondence, vol. i. pp. 441-442. Cassell (Ollier), pp. 404-405, where
a plan of the Loftcha struggle is given.]

[Footnote 184: It is not clear what these were; probably the tenth and thirtieth divisions,
composing the fourth corps. Compare Daily News War Correspondence, vol. i. pp. 443 and 444.]

[Footnote 185: War Correspondence, vol. i. pp. 482-483.]

VI.

We have thus loosely described how the Turks had effectually disposed of the whole Russian
attack excepting that of the Roumanians, and now we must turn for a moment to enquire what
was occurring at Grivitza. This redoubt is constantly referred to by the correspondents as
the most formidable of all the Turkish positions. It is called 'the indomitable Grivica redoubt;'
'the dreaded redoubt;' 'they' (the Russians) 'may bombard it for a week, sacrifice a brigade
of infantry, and not succeed in taking it.' 'The Turkish positions,' says one writer, 'opposite
to the Roumanian section, are the stronger both by nature and art. But there are but 28,000
Roumanians to 50,000 Russians. It seems logically to follow that the function of the Roumanians
is intended to be chiefly of a demonstrative character.'[186] How 'demonstrative' it was we
shall see presently.

Already on the 7th and 8th, the Russian siege guns had been pushed forward in closer proximity
to the Grivitza, and on the 9th the Roumanians worked their batteries nearer to it; whilst
on the 10th their infantry occupied a natural shelter-trench, from which they were picking
off the Turkish gunners in the redoubt. On the same day a couple of companies of Russians,
thinking the redoubt was evacuated, made an attempt to take it, but when a small party of advancing
skirmishers arrived within a hundred yards of the foot of the glacis, they were confronted
by a row of rifle muzzles and Turkish heads, and thought it more prudent to retire.

On the 11th, however, the Roumanians, with whom were three battalions of Russians, made their
'demonstration' against the Grivitza simultaneously with the Russian attacks on the other redoubts.
Little attention appears to have been paid to them in the slaughter of that terrible day, but
on the following the correspondents narrated the result of their operations, and as those not
only substantiated the title of the young army to élan and bravery, but really constituted
the turning point in the war, we will endeavour to follow their brief descriptions of the events.

     'It appears,' writes one of the chroniclers, 'that at half-past two
     p.m. the redoubt was attacked by two Roumanian brigades each
     consisting of four battalions, and three battalions of Russians.
     The Roumanians attacked from the east and south-east, the Russians
     from the south and south-west. The attack was made in the following
     manner:--First a lino of skirmishers with men carrying scaling
     ladders, gabions, and fascines among them. The latter had their
     rifles slung on their backs, and were ordered in no case to fire
     but merely to run forward, fill up the ditch, and place their
     ladders behind. Then followed the second line in company column
     formation for the attack, followed by the third line to support the
     assault. At half-past two p.m. the attack was made by the
     Roumanians, and it is said that by some mistake the Russians
     arrived half an hour too late. Be that as it may, the assault was
     repulsed, and all retired except two companies of infantry, which
     rallied, and, keeping under cover, maintained a brisk fire against
     the work.

     'At half-past five the attack was renewed by a battalion of the
     Roumanian militia, followed by two Russian battalions of the 17th
     and 18th regiments. The redoubt was then carried, and the Turks
     withdrew to the other redoubt a little to the north of the captured
     work. But it was soon apparent that the redoubt could not be held
     without reinforcements, and three Roumanian battalions with a
     battery of artillery were ordered forward. They lost their way,
     however, in the fog, and were thus precluded from rendering the
     required assistance; consequently, when the Turks returned to the
     attack, the allies were driven out.

     'The third assault soon followed, and the work was finally captured
     at seven p.m. Four guns and a standard were the trophies of the
     feat of arms. More than once during the night did the Turks advance
     with shouts of "Allah," but no serious attack was made. Thus, to my
     surprise, when I reached the Plevna valley this morning, I beheld a
     flagstaff up defiantly exposing the Roumanian flag in that hitherto
     dreaded Grivica Redoubt.'[187]

How sanguinary had been the struggle which is here described in a few commonplace sentences
is manifest from the subsequent appearance of the captured redoubt.

     'The interior of this large work was piled up not only with dead
     but with wounded, forming one ghastly undistinguishable mass of
     dead and living bodies, the wounded being as little heeded as the
     dead. The fire had hindered the doctors from coming up to attend to
     the wounded, and the same cause had kept back the wounded-bearers.
     There were not even comrades to moisten the lips of their wretched
     fellow-soldiers, or give them a word of consolation. There they
     lie, writhing and groaning. I think some attempt might have been
     made, at whatever risk, to aid these poor fellows, for they were
     gallant men, who, twenty-four hours before, had so valiantly and
     successfully struggled for the conquest of that long-uncaptured
     redoubt; and it was sad now to see them dying without any attempt
     being made to attend to them. I could fill pages with a description
     of this harrowing scene and others near it, which I witnessed, but
     the task would be equally a strain on my own nerves and on those of
     your readers.'[188]

But the Roumanians were not contented with holding their position. Within 250 yards of the
Grivitza was another Turkish redoubt whose fire commanded the former, and that they attempted
in vain to take on the 11th. Nothing daunted, however, they held their ground day after day,
and on the 18th they made another gallant but futile attempt to expel the enemy from his position.
'It is said they will renew it,' writes one of the spectators, 'and there is plenty of fight
in Prince Charles's gallant young army, but, in my opinion, there is little chance of success
unless they work up to the hostile redoubt by sap.'[189] On September 24 they were progressing
by trenches, and were only 80 yards from the second Grivitza redoubt. 'Their fighting spirit
and cheerful endurance of hardships are admirable,' we hear. And again, on the 26th: 'The Roumanians
are pushing forward their works against the second redoubt with a perseverance and pluck worthy
all praise, and which is the more remarkable as the Russians are doing absolutely nothing on
their side.'[190] This contrast comes from the pen of the chronicler who told the story of
the twenty Roumanians being taken prisoners by five Russians, and whose views of the relative
merits of the combatants had evidently undergone considerable modification; for he now says
of the Russians: 'They are waiting for reinforcements, which are arriving slowly, and which,
when they are here, will hardly more than cover the losses by battle and by sickness during
the last two months. I think history offers no such example of a splendid army in such an utterly
helpless condition. The Roumanian generals are showing far more pluck and energy.'[191]

The Roumanians were unable to capture the second redoubt, but they managed not only to hold
their advanced position before Plevna, but to give material assistance elsewhere in turning
the siege into an investment. On November 21 they captured Rahova, on the Danube, which greatly
facilitated operations against the doomed fortress and aided to make the works of the allies
impregnable. In the closing incidents of the investment of Plevna the Roumanians took little
or no part in consequence of the position which they occupied. On the morning of December 10,
Osman Pasha made his brave but unsuccessful attempt to break through the Russian lines, a struggle
in which both sides performed prodigies of valour. One whole Russian regiment was annihilated
in the effort to check the enemy, whose general was himself wounded; and after having kept
the Russo-Roumanian army at bay with an inferior force for more than four months, he was at
length obliged to surrender with his whole army. Here is a glimpse of the final scene, as the
wounded hero met his conquerors:--

     'The Grand Duke rode up to the carriage, and for some seconds the
     two chiefs gazed into each other's faces without the utterance of a
     word. Then the Grand Duke stretched out his hand and shook the hand
     of Osman Pasha heartily and said: "I compliment you on your defence
     of Plevna; it is one of the most splendid military feats in
     history." Osman Pasha smiled sadly, rose painfully to his feet in
     spite of his wound, said something which I could not hear, and then
     reseated himself. The Russian officers all cried "Bravo! bravo!"
     repeatedly, and all saluted respectfully. There was not one among
     them who did not gaze on the hero of Plevna with the greatest
     admiration and sympathy. Prince Charles, who had arrived, rode up,
     and repeated unwittingly almost every word of the Grand Duke, and
     likewise shook hands. Osman Pasha again rose and bowed, this time
     in grim silence.'[192]

[Footnote 186: Ibid. p. 444.]

[Footnote 187: Daily War Correspondence, vol. i. p. 485.]

[Footnote 188: Ibid. p. 487.]

[Footnote 189: Daily News War Correspondence, vol. i. p. 491.]

[Footnote 190: Ibid. p. 495.]

[Footnote 191: Ibid. p. 496.]

[Footnote 192: Daily News Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 153.]

VI.

How easy it is to be magnanimous to a fallen foe; how difficult, with some people, to be honourable
in their dealings with an ally, especially if he has been successful where they failed! The
first is a claim of superiority, and the higher the meed of praise awarded by us to the vanquished
the greater appears our victory; but the less we admit to be due to our comrade in arms, the
greater credit is left for ourselves. And yet what will be the judgment of posterity upon the
conduct of Russia towards her brave ally who had saved her honour, if not the integrity of
her empire? Whatever she may think, the joy-bells would have rung throughout a great portion
of Europe, and certainly the party then dominant in England would have rejoiced exceedingly,
if she had been driven back over the Pruth, and had been compelled to busy herself with much-needed
reforms in her own country instead of meddling with the affairs of her neighbours and seeking
to extend her already overgrown possessions.

The war was never popular with the masses in Roumania, and although, at the opening of the
Chambers in November 1877, the royal speech predicted that the fall of Plevna would mean a
complete emancipation for Roumania, much uneasiness prevailed concerning the designs of Russia--uneasiness
which was justified by subsequent events. On December 17, a load having been lifted from the
mind of the nation by the surrender of Osman Pasha, there was great rejoicing at Bucarest on
the occasion of the Czar's visit. He was on his way to St. Petersburg to receive the congratulations
of his subjects, having left Plevna behind him, 'full of horrors.' He is dead now, but his
son and all princes who live by the sword would do well to peruse and reperuse the accounts
of the tragical scenes that the victors left upon the battle-field when they departed to receive
the ovations of the fickle populace. The Roumanians fêted their victorious allies, to whom
it must be admitted that we have here done ample justice in all their proceedings. But they
were the same Russians who, under Peter the Great, were reported to have stolen the boots from
the feet of their sleeping hosts; the same whose hands the Roumanians had kissed when in 1829
they had released them from the Turkish yoke; who it 1853 overran the Principalities with a
view to their permanent occupation, and who a few months after the events above recorded betrayed
their allies, and, for the risk they had run of once more sacrificing their national existence,
deprived them of Southern Bessarabia, a province inhabited almost entirely by Roumanians.

Still the war brought its compensating advantages. The Dobrudscha which the Roumanians received
in exchange for Bessarabia, is proving a more valuable acquisition both for trade and for strategical
purposes than was at first anticipated.

The Treaty of San Stephano, which was executed between Russia and Turkey on February 19 [March
3], 1878, and was practically confirmed by the Berlin Conference, contained amongst its other
provisions this one (part of Article V.): 'The Sublime Porte recognises the independence of
Roumania, which will establish its right to an indemnity to be discussed between the two countries;'
and (part of Article XII.): 'All the Danubian strongholds shall be razed. There shall be no
strongholds in future on the banks of this river, nor any men-of-war in the waters of the Principalities
of Roumania, Servia, and Bulgaria, except the usual stationnaires and the small vessels intended
for river police and custom-house purposes.' And Article XIX. gave to Russia that part of Turkey
bordering on the Danube, known as the Dobrudscha, which Russia 'reserves the right of exchanging
for the part of Bessarabia detached from her by the treaty of 1856,' and which, to the great
indignation of the Roumanians, she subsequently forced them to relinquish in 'exchange' for
her newly acquired territory.

But n'importe. Roumania was free; and this time she had fought for and won her complete independence.

VII.

There is something unsettled in the nature of an independent principality. The title fails
to convey the idea of a free and sovereign people, and we are always disposed to regard it
as the possible province of some annexing neighbour. So thought a writer on Roumania four years
ago, at the close of the war of liberation. 'Situated as it is, as an independent State, it
must sooner or later fall to Russia or Austria, more probably to the former.'[193] So, in all
probability, thought the Russian diplomatists when they created a number of weak principalities
south of the Danube to serve them as stepping-stones to Constantinople. And so, too, thought
the Roumanians themselves. They knew that a name is 'neither hand, nor foot, nor arm, nor face,
nor any other part belonging to a man,' and so they 'doffed the name,' and on May 23, 1881,
with the concurrence of the great Powers of Europe, they invested their prince and princess
with the royal dignity, placing upon their sovereign's head a crown made from the very guns
which he had captured whilst he was fighting for their liberties.

The poetic sentiment which attaches to this last act of the people of Roumania brings vividly
before our mind's eye the dramatic character of her whole national career. Twice have we found
the course of her history lost in darkness--first in the clouds of antiquity by which the early
life of every nation is obscured; then in the still impenetrable gloom of the so-called dark
ages, which continued to hang over the Danubian plains long after it was lifted from every
other part of Europe. Conquered first, and civilised by one who ranks amongst the greatest
heroes of the Roman Empire, she has inherited a high antiquity of which she may be justly proud,
remembering, however, that honourable ancestry alone is not the measure of a nation's greatness.
But then, for ages we might almost say, the blast which swept across her plains with all the
fury of a tempest, but, as it travelled westward, broke and moderated under the influence of
the older civilisation, caused a second blank in her existence; and when she once more rose
from her prostration, she found herself whole centuries behind the western peoples. But hardly
had she time to breathe again, and ere the wounds inflicted on her by the Goths, and Huns,
and Avars were yet fully healed, another ruthless conqueror had laid hands upon her; and spite
of all her efforts to regain her liberty he held her fast, and sent her taskmasters as cruel
and exacting as the leaders of barbarian hordes had been before. And yet her spirit was indomitable;
bowed but not broken she continued to live on, and ever strove for freedom. Mircea, Stephen,
Michael, those are the names which vindicate her claim to courage, and which shield her from
the charge of cowardly submission. And next she is the object of contention between two neighbouring
despots, the one endeavouring to hold, the other to annex her. It is a marvelt hat between
them she was not dismembered limb from limb.

At length for her, as for all suffering peoples, the day of liberation was at hand; the iron
bonds which Oriental despotism had forged were loosened by the agency of Western progress,
and, lightened of her load, she this time struck a more effectual blow for liberty, and was
amongst the first to unfurl the flag of freedom in the East. But a long succession of barbarian
governors, the license of repeated military occupations, the proximity of Tartar savagery on
the one side and of Oriental effeminacy on the other, these incidents of her long-continued
vassalage have necessarily, and, it is to be hoped, but for a time, left their evil influence
upon the nation, which it is now the earnest endeavour of her patriotic leaders to exterminate.

[Footnote 193: Ozanne, p. 226.]

CHAPTER XV.

PRESENT ROUMANIAN LEADERS AND THEIR POLICY.

     The King--Customs of the Court--The Queen--Her attainments--Extract
     from her poetry--Madame Rosetti--Her patriotism and adventures--M.
     Constantin A. Rosetti--His career and public services--M.
     Bratiano--Other leaders of public opinion--The party of
     progress--Their past foreign and domestic policy--Geographical
     boundaries--Panslavism and Panroumanism--The future policy of
     Roumania--Growth by pacific means--(Note: Comparative values of
     Russian, Turkish, and Roumanian securities)--Roumania and Great
     Britain--Conclusion.

I.

We have passed in hasty and imperfect review those features in the national life of Roumania
which we believed would be of interest to our readers, and will now endeavour to present to
them sketches of a few of the persons of distinction who are forming public opinion, and are
the leaders of progress in the country, premising, however, that there are many omissions,
due partly to our own ignorance, and partly to the fact that the discussion of the merits and
demerits of some of the public men would not have been fitting in this treatise.

By his rank and patriotism, and not least by his extensive knowledge, his Majesty King Charles
is entitled to our first consideration. Of his political career we have spoken in our historical
summary, and little more need be added. He was born on April 20, 1839, and is therefore about
forty-three years of age. On November 15, 1869, he married Pauline Elisabeth, Princess of Wied,
who was then about twenty-six years old; but, unfortunately, the sole offspring of their union,
a little girl, lies interred in the grounds of the Asyle Hélène. The King is a handsome man,
rather above the average height, and, so far as his regularly formed features are concerned,
he might belong to any nationality of Western Europe. He usually wears a somewhat severe expression,
but the moment he begins to converse this at once disappears. His manner is quiet and earnest,
although he often warms into enthusiasm, and he has the happy faculty of placing all with whom
he comes into contact at perfect ease. He possesses a wide range of information, and speaks
with evident knowledge on all matters of interest to his subjects or to civilisation. Of course
he is well acquainted with his adopted country and its resources, takes a lively interest in
its trade and capabilities; and so far as the geographical configuration of Roumania is concerned,
he not only knows all about the level country, but has either ridden or walked through every
part of the Carpathians. His scientific knowledge is such as one might expect in an educated
German, and is chiefly of a practical kind. He is deeply interested in arboriculture, about
which he knows more than many who are entrusted with the care and fate of the vast woods that
clothe the mountain districts, and he has often pointed out to such persons errors in their
mode of felling timber. In private life the King is hospitable, genial, and very regular in
his habits; he is a devout Catholic, but a constant attendant upon the services of the Greek
Church.

But of course our interest in him is necessarily rather of a public than of a private character.
Is he constitutional? or is Europe likely some day to be favoured with a Roumanian coup d'état?
The answer to these questions is clear and emphatic. Although a Hohenzollern, he is a Constitutional
Liberal, we should say of an advanced type. We spoke before of his misunderstandings with his
ministers; but even those who were originally opposed to him, and who watched his every act
with suspicion, state that he has managed with great tact to steer clear of unconstitutional
courses; indeed, from their own admissions and the facts of history, it is clear that he must
have served a very trying apprenticeship in the art of constitutional rule. His demeanour towards
his subjects and that of his queen, of whom we shall speak presently, is everything that can
be desired, and both are winning their affections more completely year by year.

When the court is at Bucarest a great portion of the king's time is devoted to giving audiences,
not only to officials, but to all who desire to know their sovereign, and even to seek his
counsel or that of his amiable consort. Two books are kept at the palace, one for callers only,
and the other for persons who desire to see and speak with the king or queen, for they give
audiences apart. Those who enter their names in the second book must give notice to the 'Hofmarschall,'
and they are then sent for in turn, and punctuality above all things is insisted upon. The
king gives audiences from 1 to 3 or 4 p.m.; the queen for a longer time, and young as she is,
for she has not yet attained her fortieth year, she is regarded as the mother of her people,
and many there are who come to her for advice or consolation. But we are digressing. If the
king interests himself in the civil affairs of Roumania, he is a soldier before everything
else. The virtual as well as the nominal head of the army, he always wears uniform, and nothing
is too unimportant for his consideration in the organisation of his army. Those who have been
in the field with him and much about his person extol his coolness, bravery, and endurance.
He has often risked his life in battle, was always to the fore visiting outposts and bivouacs
in the most inclement weather, and there can be no doubt that it is to his bravery as a general,
and to his tact and patience as a statesman, that Roumania is largely indebted for her independence
and her promise in the future.

II.

The Queen of Roumania is almost too well known in Europe, through her literary attainments,
to need any description here; still a few particulars concerning her may be of interest to
our readers. She is of the middle height, has an amiable face and still more affable manner.
She, too, might pass for a lady of any western country, having very little to indicate her
German nationality. Her voice is soft and melodious, and although she can speak well on literary
and scientific subjects, there is not the slightest pedantry or affectation of learning in
her discourse. She is said to speak six languages, and she certainly speaks Roumanian, French,
German, and English. We do not know what the other two may be, but if she speaks the four languages
here named as fluently and with as little foreign accent as she does our own, she may fairly
claim to be an accomplished linguist. All educated Roumanians speak French, and most of them
German, besides their own tongue; indeed French is almost the universal language of the middle
classes, whilst those who have been educated here, especially the younger men, naturally speak
English well, and therefore the Queen is in this respect only somewhat ahead of her more accomplished
subjects. But, as we have already stated, she is a poetess, and her verses are often marked
by great depth of feeling. She possesses, too, considerable scientific knowledge and great
taste in art, and one of her chief desires is to promote national industry. She sets the example
by wearing the national costume (in which her portrait is usually taken) whilst in the country,
and requires it to be worn on State occasions, her main object being, we were told, to encourage
the peasant women who make these costumes in their own homes. But whilst in these matters,
as in her devotion to public duty, the Queen identifies herself with the Roumanian people and
their interests, she would not be a German if she had forgotten the 'Fatherland.'

    'Land of greenwood and of vine,
    Sparkling wavelets of the Rhine,
    Hushed thy song, afar thy gleam.
    All to me, now, but a dream.

    'Oft when I these eyelids close,
    Purling sounds haunt my repose,
    Vessels in the sunlight's ray,
    'Fore the wind, speed on their way.

    'Lovely home on German plain
    Once my own, but ne'er again,
    Thou wilt be to mem'ry dear
    Till they place me on my bier.'[194]

[Footnote 194: The first three verses of the dedication in Rumänische Dichtungen, by Carmen
Sylva (the Queen's nom de plume), Leipzig, W. Friedrich, 1881. Lest our halting verse should
prejudice the illustrious authoress, we append the original for those who know German:--

    'Du Rebenland, du grüner Wald,
    Du Rhein mit deinem Schimmer:
    Dein Glanz ist fern, dein Sang verhallt,
    Ich bin entflohn für immer!

    'Oft, oft schliess' ich die Angen zu,
    Dann hör' ich's singen, rauschen,
    Seh' Schiffe zieh'n in sonn'ger Ruh',
    Den Wind die Segel bauschen.

    'Dass ich die schönste Heimath hab'
    In deutschen Gau'n besessen,
    Das macht, dass ich sie bis zum Grab
    Nun nimmer kann vergessen.'
]

III.

