Ambrose was the only person who ever received any communication from Giles Headley.  They were
few and far between, but when Stephen Gardiner returned from his embassy to Pope Clement the
Seventh, who was then at Orvieto, one of the suite reported to Ambrose how astonished he had
been by being accosted in good English by one of the imperial men-at-arms, who were guarding
his Holiness in actual though unconfessed captivity. This person had sent his commendations
to Ambrose, and likewise a laborious bit of writing, which looked as if he were fast forgetting
the art.  It bade Ambrose inform his mother and all his friends and kin that he was well and
coming to preferment, and inclosed for Aldonza a small mother-of-pearl cross blessed by the
Pope.  Giles added that he should bring her finer gifts by and by.

Seven years' constancy!  It gave quite a respectability to Giles's love, and Aldonza was still
ready and patient while waiting in attendance on her beloved mistress.

Ambrose lived on in the colony at Chelsea, sometimes attending his master, especially on diplomatic
missions, and generally acting as librarian and foreign secretary, and obtaining some notice
from Erasmus on the great scholar's visit to Chelsea.  Under such guidance, Ambrose's opinions
had settled down a good deal; and he was a disappointment to Tibble, whose views advanced proportionably
as he worked less, and read and thought more.  He so bitterly resented and deplored the burning
of Tindal's Bible that there was constant fear that he might bring on himself the same fate,
especially as he treasured his own copy and studied it constantly.  The reform that Wolsey
had intended to effect when he obtained the legatine authority seemed to fall into the background
among political interests, and his efforts had as yet no result save the suppression of some
useless and ill-managed small religious houses to endow his magnificent project of York College
at Oxford, with a feeder at Ipswich, his native town.

He was waiting to obtain the papacy, when he would deal better with the abuses.  Randall once
asked him if he were not waiting to be King of Heaven, when he could make root and branch work
at once.  Hal had never so nearly incurred a flogging!

And in the meantime another influence was at work, an influence only heard of at first in whispered
jests, which made loyal-hearted Dennet blush and look indignant, but which soon grew to sad
earnest, as she could not but avow, when she beheld the stately pomp of the two Cardinals,
Wolsey and Campeggio, sweep up to the Blackfriars Convent to sit in judgment on the marriage
of poor Queen Katharine.

"Out on them!" she said.  "So many learned men to set their wits against one poor woman!" 
And she heartily rejoiced when they came to no decision, and the Pope was appealed to.  As
to understanding all the explanations that Ambrose brought from time to time, she called them
quirks and quiddities, and left them to her father and Tibble to discuss in their chimney corners.

They had seen nothing of the jester for a good while, for he was with Wolsey, who was attending
the King on a progress through the midland shires.  When the Cardinal returned to open the
law courts as Chancellor at the beginning of the autumn term, still Randall kept away from
home, perhaps because he had forebodings that he could not bear to mention.

On the evening of that very day, London rang with the tidings that the Great Seal had been
taken from the Cardinal, and that he was under orders to yield up his noble mansion of York
House and to retire to Esher; nay, it was reported that he was to be imprisoned in the Tower,
and the next day the Thames was crowded with more than a thousand boats filled with people,
expecting to see him landed at the Traitors' Gate, and much disappointed when his barge turned
towards Putney.

In the afternoon, Ambrose came to the Dragon court.

Even as Stephen figured now as a handsome prosperous young freeman of the City, Ambrose looked
well in the sober black apparel and neat ruff of a lawyer's clerk--clerk indeed to the first
lawyer in the kingdom, for the news had spread before him that Sir Thomas More had become Lord
Chancellor.

"Thou art come to bear us word of thy promotion--for thy master's is thine own," said the alderman
heartily as he entered, shaking hands with him.  "Never was the Great Seal in better hands."

"'Tis true indeed, your worship," said Ambrose, "though it will lay a heavy charge on him,
and divert him from much that he loveth better still.  I came to ask of my sister Dennet a
supper and a bed for the night, as I have been on business for him, and can scarce get back
to Chelsea."

"And welcome," said Dennet.  "Little Giles and Bess have been wearying for their uncle."

"I must not toy with them yet," said Ambrose, "I have a message for my aunt.  Brother, wilt
thou walk down to the Temple with me before supper?"

"Yea, and how is it with Master Randall?" asked Dennet.  "Be he gone with my Lord Cardinal?"

"He is made over to the King," said Ambrose briefly.  "'Tis that which I must tell his wife."

"Have with thee, then," said Stephen, linking his arm into that of his brother, for to be together
was still as great an enjoyment to them as in Forest days.  And on the way, Ambrose told what
he had not been willing to utter in full assembly in the hall.  He had been sent by his master
with a letter of condolence to the fallen Cardinal, and likewise of inquiry into some necessary
business connected with the chancellorship.  Wolsey had not time to answer before embarking,
but as Sir Thomas had vouched for the messenger's ability and trustiness, he had bidden Ambrose
come into his barge, and receive his instructions. Thus Ambrose had landed with him, just as
a messenger came riding in haste from the King, with a kind greeting, assuring his old friend
that his seeming disgrace was only for a time, and for political reasons, and sending him a
ring in token thereof.  The Cardinal had fallen on his knees to receive the message, had snatched
a gold chain and precious relic from his own neck to reward the messenger, and then, casting
about for some gift for the King, "by ill-luck," said Ambrose, "his eye lit upon our uncle,
and he instantly declared that he would bestow Patch, as the Court chooses to call him, on
the King.  Well, as thou canst guess, Hal is hotly wroth at the treatment of his lord, whom
he truly loveth; and he flung himself before the Cardinal, and besought that he might not be
sent from his good lord.  But the Cardinal was only chafed at aught that gainsaid him; and
all he did was to say he would have no more ado, he had made his gift.  `Get thee gone,' he
said, as if he had been ordering off a horse or dog.  Well-a-day! it was hard to brook the
sight, and Hal's blood was up.  He flatly refused to go, saying he was the Cardinal's servant,
but no villain nor serf to be thus made over without his own will."

"He was in the right there," returned Stephen, hotly.

"Yea, save that by playing the fool, poor fellow, he hath yielded up the rights of a wise man.
Any way, all he gat by it was that the Cardinal bade two of the yeomen lay hands on him and
bear him off.  Then there came on him that reckless mood, which, I trow, banished him long
ago from the Forest, and brought him to the motley.  He fought with them with all his force,
and broke away once--as if that were of any use for a man in motley!--but he was bound at last
and borne off by six of them to Windsor!"

"And thou stoodst by, and beheld it!" cried Stephen.

"Nay, what could I have done, save to make his plight worse, and forfeit all chance of yet
speaking to him?"

"Thou wert ever cool!  I wot that I could not have borne it," said Stephen.

They told the story to Perronel, who was on the whole elated by her husband's promotion, declaring
that the King loved him well, and that he would soon come to his senses, though for a wise
man, he certainly had too much of the fool, even as he had too much of the wise man for the fool.

She became anxious, however, as the weeks passed by without hearing of or from him, and at
length Ambrose confessed his uneasiness to his kind master, and obtained leave to attend him
on the next summons to Windsor.

Ambrose could not find his uncle at first.  Randall, who used to pervade York House, and turn
up everywhere when least expected, did not appear among the superior serving-men and secretaries
with whom his nephew ranked, and of course there was no access to the state apartments.  Sir
Thomas, however, told Ambrose that he had seen Quipsome Hal among the other jesters, but that
he seemed dull and dejected.  Then Ambrose beheld from a window a cruel sight, for the other
fools, three in number, were surrounding Hal, baiting and teasing him, triumphing over him
in fact, for having formerly outshone them, while he stood among them like a big dog worried
by little curs, against whom he disdained to use his strength.  Ambrose, unable to bear this,
ran down stairs to endeavour to interfere; but before he could find his way to the spot, an
arrival at the gate had attracted the tormentors, and Ambrose found his uncle leaning against
the wall alone.  He looked thin and wan, the light was gone out of his black eyes, and his
countenance was in sad contrast to his gay and absurd attire.  He scarcely cheered up when
his nephew spoke to him, though he was glad to hear of Perronel.  He said he knew not when
he should see her again, for he had been unable to secure his suit of ordinary garments, so
that even if the King came to London, or if he could elude the other fools, he could not get
out to visit her. He was no better than a prisoner here, he only marvelled that the King retained
so wretched a jester, with so heavy a heart.

"Once thou wast in favour," said Ambrose.  "Methought thou couldst have availed thyself of
it to speak for the Lord Cardinal."

"What?  A senseless cur whom he kicked from him," said Randall.  "'Twas that took all spirit
from me, boy.  I, who thought he loved me, as I love him to this day.  To send me to be sport
for his foes!  I think of it day and night, and I've not a gibe left under my belt!"

"Nay," said Ambrose, "it may have been that the Cardinal hoped to secure a true friend at the
King's ear, as well as to provide for thee."

"Had he but said so--"

"Nay, perchance he trusted to thy sharp wit."

A gleam came into Hal's eyes.  "It might be so.  Thou always wast a toward lad, Ambrose, and
if so, I was cur and fool indeed to baulk him."

Therewith one of the other fools danced back exhibiting a silver crown that had just been flung
to him, mopping and mowing, and demanding when Patch would have wit to gain the like.  Whereto
Hal replied by pointing to Ambrose and declaring that that gentleman had given him better than
fifty crowns.  And that night, Sir Thomas told Ambrose that the Quipsome one had recovered
himself, had been more brilliant than ever and had quite eclipsed the other fools.

On the next opportunity, Ambrose contrived to pack in his cloak-bag, the cap and loose garment
in which his uncle was wont to cover his motley. The Court was still at Windsor; but nearly
the whole of Sir Thomas's stay elapsed without Ambrose being able to find his uncle.  Wolsey
had been very ill, and the King had relented enough to send his own physician to attend him.
Ambrose began to wonder if Hal could have found any plea for rejoining his old master; but
in the last hour of his stay, he found Hal curled up listlessly on a window seat of a gallery,
his head resting on his hand.

"Uncle, good uncle!  At last!  Thou art sick?"

"Sick at heart, lad," said Hal, looking up.  "Yea, I took thy counsel. I plucked up a spirit,
I made Harry laugh as of old, though my heart smote me, as I thought how he was wont to be
answered by my master.  I even brooked to jest with the night-crow, as my own poor lord called
this Nan Boleyn.  And lo you now, when his Grace was touched at my lord's sickness, I durst
say there was one sure elixir for such as he, to wit a gold Harry; and that a King's touch
was a sovereign cure for other disorders than the King's evil.  Harry smiled, and in ten minutes
more would have taken horse for Esher, had not Madam Nan claimed his word to ride out hawking
with her.  And next, she sendeth me a warning by one of her pert maids, that I should be whipped,
if I spoke to his Grace of unfitting matters.  My flesh could brook no more, and like a born
natural, I made answer that Nan Boleyn was no mistress of mine to bid me hold a tongue that
had spoken sooth to her betters.  Thereupon, what think you, boy?  The grooms came and soundly
flogged me for uncomely speech of my Lady Anne!  I that was eighteen years with my Lord Cardinal,
and none laid hand on me!  Yea, I was beaten; and then shut up in a dog-hole for three days
on bread and water, with none to speak to, but the other fools jeering at me like a rogue in
a pillory."

Ambrose could hardly speak for hot grief and indignation, but he wrung his uncle's hand, and
whispered that he had hid the loose gown behind the arras of his chamber, but he could do no
more, for he was summoned to attend his master, and a servant further thrust in to say, "Concern
yourself not for that rogue, sir, he hath been saucy, and must mend his manners, or he will
have worse."

"Away, kind sir," said Hal, "you can do the poor fool no further good! but only bring the pack
about the ears of the mangy hound."  And he sang a stave appropriated by a greater man than he--

  "Then let the stricken deer go weep,
  The hart ungalled play."

The only hope that Ambrose or his good master could devise for poor Randall was that Sir Thomas
should watch his opportunity and beg the fool from the King, who might part with him as a child
gives away the once coveted toy that has failed in its hands; but the request would need circumspection,
for all had already felt the change that had taken place in the temper of the King since Henry
had resolutely undertaken that the wrong should be the right; and Ambrose could not but dread
the effect of desperation on a man whose nature had in it a vein of impatient recklessness.

It was after dinner, and Dennet, with her little boy and girl, was on the steps dispensing
the salt fish, broken bread, and pottage of the Lenten meal to the daily troop who came for
her alms, when, among them, she saw, somewhat to her alarm, a gipsy man, who was talking to
little Giles.  The boy, a stout fellow of six, was astride on the balustrade, looking up eagerly
into the face of the man, who began imitating the note of a blackbird.  Dennet, remembering
the evil propensities of the gipsy race, called hastily to her little son to come down and
return to her side; but little Giles was unwilling to move, and called to her, "O mother, come!
He hath a bird-call!"  In some perturbation lest the man might be calling her bird away, Dennet
descended the steps.  She was about to utter a sharp rebuke, but Giles held out his hand imploringly,
and she paused a moment to hear the sweet full note of the "ouzel cock, with orange tawny bill,"
closely imitated on a tiny bone whistle.  "He will sell it to me for two farthings," cried
the boy, "and teach me to sing on it like all the birds--"

"Yea, good mistress," said the gipsy, "I can whistle a tune that the little master, ay, and
others, might be fain to hear."

Therewith, spite of the wild dress, Dennet knew the eyes and the voice. And perhaps the blackbird's
note had awakened echoes in another mind, for she saw Stephen, in his working dress, come out
to the door of the shop where he continued to do all the finer work which had formerly fallen
to Tibble's share.

She lifted her boy from his perch, and bade him take the stranger to his father, who would
no doubt give him the whistle.  And thus, having without exciting attention, separated the
fugitive from the rest of her pensioners, she made haste to dismiss them.

She was not surprised that little Giles came running back to her, producing unearthly notes
on the instrument, and telling her that father had taken the gipsy into his workshop, and said
they would teach him bird's songs by and by.

"Steve, Steve," had been the first words uttered when the boy was out of hearing, "hast thou
a smith's apron and plenty of smut to bestow on me? None can tell what Harry's mood may be,
when he finds I've given him the slip.  That is the reason I durst not go to my poor dame."

"We will send to let her know.  I thought I guessed what black ouzel 'twas!  I mind how thou
didst make the like notes for us when we were no bigger than my Giles!"

"Thou hast a kind heart Stephen.  Here!  Is thy furnace hot enough to make a speedy end of
this same greasy gipsy doublet?  I trust not the varlet with whom I bartered it for my motley.
And a fine bargain he had of what I trust never to wear again to the end of my days.  Make
me a smith complete, Stephen, and then will I tell thee my story."

"We must call Kit into counsel, ere we can do that fully," said Stephen.

In a few minutes Hal Randall was, to all appearance, a very shabby and grimy smith, and then
he took breath to explain his anxiety and alarm. Once again, hearing that the Cardinal was
to be exiled to York, he had ventured on a sorry jest about old friends and old wine being
better than new; but the King, who had once been open to plain speaking, was now incensed,
threatened and swore at him!  Moreover, one of the other fools had told him, in the way of
boasting that he had heard Master Cromwell, formerly the Cardinal's secretary, informing the
King that this rogue was no true "natural" at all, but was blessed, (or cursed), with as good
an understanding as other folks, as was well known in the Cardinal's household, and that he
had no doubt been sent to serve as a spy, so that he was to be esteemed a dangerous person,
and had best be put under ward.

Hal had not been able to discover whether Cromwell had communicated his name, but he suspected
that it might be known to that acute person, and he could not tell whether his compeer spoke
out of a sort of good- natured desire to warn him, or simply to triumph in his disgrace, and
leer at him for being an impostor.  At any rate, being now desperate, he covered his parti-coloured
raiment with the gown Ambrose had brought, made a perilous descent from a window in the twilight,
scaled a wall with the agility that seemed to have returned to him, and reached Windsor Forest.

There, falling on a camp of gipsies, he had availed himself of old experiences in his wild
Shirley days, and had obtained an exchange of garb, his handsome motley being really a prize
to the wanderers.  Thus he had been able to reach London; but he did not feel any confidence
that if he were pursued to the gipsy tent he would not be betrayed.

In this, his sagacity was not at fault, for he had scarcely made his explanation, when there
was a knocking at the outer gate, and a demand to enter in the name of the King, and to see
Alderman Sir Giles Headley. Several of the stout figures of the yeomen of the King's guard
were seen crossing the court, and Stephen, committing the charge of his uncle to Kit, threw
off his apron, washed his face and went up to the hall, not very rapidly, for he suspected
that since his father-in-law knew nothing of the arrival, he would best baffle the inquiries
by sincere denials.

And Dennet, with her sharp woman's wit, scenting danger, had whisked herself and her children
out of the hall at the first moment, and taken them down to the kitchen, where modelling with
a batch of dough occupied both of them.

Meantime the alderman flatly denied the presence of the jester, or the harbouring of the gipsy.
He allowed that the jester was of kin to his son-in-law, but the good man averred in all honesty
that he knew nought of any escape, and was absolutely certain that no such person was in the
court.  Then, as Stephen entered, doffing his cap to the King's officer, the alderman continued,
"There, fair son, this is what these gentlemen have come about.  Thy kinsman, it seemeth, hath
fled from Windsor, and his Grace is mightily incensed.  They say he changed clothes with a
gipsy, and was traced hither this morn, but I have told them the thing is impossible."

"Will the gentlemen search?" asked Stephen.

The gentlemen did search, but they only saw the smiths in full work; and in Smallbones' forge,
there was a roaring glowing furnace, with a bare- armed fellow feeding it with coals, so that
it fairly scorched them, and gave them double relish for the good wine and beer that was put
out on the table to do honour to them.

Stephen had just with all civility seen them off the premises when Perronel came sobbing into
the court.  They had visited her first, for Cromwell had evidently known of Randall's haunts;
they had turned her little house upside down, and had threatened her hotly in case she harboured
a disloyal spy, who deserved hanging.  She came to consult Stephen, for the notion of her husband
wandering about, as a sort of outlaw, was almost as terrible as the threat of his being hanged.

Stephen beckoned her to a store-room full of gaunt figures of armour upon blocks, and there
brought up to her his extremely grimy new hand!

There was much gladness between them, but the future had to be considered.  Perronel had a
little hoard, the amount of which she was too shrewd to name to any one, even her husband,
but she considered it sufficient to enable him to fulfil the cherished scheme of his life,
of retiring to some small farm near his old home, and she was for setting off at once.  But
Harry Randall declared that he could not go without having offered his services to his old
master.  He had heard of his "good lord" as sick, sad, and deserted by those whom he had cherished,
and the faithful heart was so true in its loyalty that no persuasion could prevail in making
it turn south.

"Nay," said the wife, "did he not cast thee off himself, and serve thee like one of his dogs!
How canst thou be bound to him?"

"There's the rub!" sighed Hal.  "He sent me to the King deeming that he should have one full
of faithful love to speak a word on his behalf, and I, brutish oaf as I was, must needs take
it amiss, and sulk and mope till the occasion was past, and that viper Cromwell was there to
back up the woman Boleyn and poison his Grace's ear."

"As if a man must not have a spirit to be angered by such treatment."

"Thou forgettest, good wife.  No man, but a fool, and to be entreated as such!  Be that as
it may, to York I must.  I have eaten of my lord's bread too many years, and had too much kindness
from him in the days of his glory, to seek mine own ease now in his adversity.  Thou wouldst
have a poor bargain of me when my heart is away."

Perronel saw that thus it would be, and that this was one of the points on which, to her mind,
her husband was more than half a veritable fool after all.

There had long been a promise that Stephen should, in some time of slack employment make a
visit to his old comrade, Edmund Burgess, at York; and as some new tools and patterns had to
be conveyed thither, a sudden resolution was come to, in family conclave, that Stephen himself
should convey them, taking his uncle with him as a serving-man, to attend to the horses.  The
alderman gave full consent, he had always wished Stephen to see York, while he himself with
Tibble Steelman, was able to attend to the business; and while he pronounced Randall to have
a heart of gold, well worth guarding, he still was glad when the risk was over of the King's
hearing that the runaway jester was harboured at the Dragon.  Dennet did not like the journey
for her husband, for to her mind it was perilous, but she had had a warm affection for his
uncle ever since their expedition to Richmond together, and she did her best to reconcile the
murmuring and wounded Perronel by praises of Randall, a true and noble heart; and that as to
setting her aside for the Cardinal, who had heeded him so little, such faithfulness only made
her more secure of his true-heartedness towards her.  Perronel was moreover to break up her
business, dispose of her house, and await her husband's return at the Dragon.

Stephen came back after a happy month with his friend, stored with wondrous tales and descriptions
which would last the children for a month.  He had seen his uncle present himself to the Cardinal
at Cawood Castle.  It had been a touching meeting.  Hal could hardly restrain his tears when
he saw how Wolsey's sturdy form had wasted, and his round ruddy cheeks had fallen away, while
the attitude in which he sat in his chair was listless and weary, though he fitfully exerted
himself with his old vigour.

Hal on his side, in the dark plain dress of a citizen, was hardly recognisable, for not only
had he likewise grown thinner, and his brown cheeks more hollow, but his hair had become almost
white during his miserable weeks at Windsor, though he was not much over forty years old.

He came up the last of a number who presented themselves for the Archiepiscopal blessing, as
Wolsey sat under a large tree in Cawood Park.  Wolsey gave it with his raised fingers, without
special heed, but therewith Hal threw himself on the ground, kissed his feet, and cried, "My
lord, my dear lord, your pardon."

"What hast done, fellow?  Speak!" said the Cardinal.  "Grovel not thus. We will be merciful."

"Ah! my lord," said Randall, lifting himself up, but with clasped hands and tearful eyes, "I
did not serve you as I ought with the King, but if you will forgive me and take me back--"

"How now?  How couldst thou serve me?  What!"--as Hal made a familiar gesture--"thou art not
the poor fool, Quipsome Patch?  How comest thou here?  Methought I had provided well for thee
in making thee over to the King."

"Ah! my lord, I was fool, fool indeed, but all my jests failed me.  How could I make sport
for your enemies?"

"And thou hast come, thou hast left the King to follow my fallen fortunes?" said Wolsey.  "My
poor boy, he who is sitting in sackcloth and ashes needs no jester."

"Nay, my lord, nor can I find one jest to break!  Would you but let me be your meanest horse-boy,
your scullion!"  Hal's voice was cut short by tears as the Cardinal abandoned to him one hand.
The other was drying eyes that seldom wept.

"My faithful Hal!" he said, "this is love indeed!"

And Stephen ere he came away had seen his uncle fully established, as a rational creature,
and by his true name, as one of the personal attendants on the Cardinal's bed-chamber, and
treated with the affection he well deserved.  Wolsey had really seemed cheered by his affection,
and was devoting himself to the care of his hitherto neglected and even unvisited diocese,
in a way that delighted the hearts of the Yorkshiremen.

The first idea was that Perronel should join her husband at York, but safe modes of travelling
were not easy to be found, and before any satisfactory escort offered, there were rumours that
made it prudent to delay.  As autumn advanced, it was known that the Earl of Northumberland
had been sent to attach the Cardinal of High Treason.  Then ensued other reports that the great
Cardinal had sunk and died on his way to London for trial; and at last, one dark winter evening,
a sorrowful man stumbled up the steps of the Dragon, and as he came into the bright light of
the fire, and Perronel sprang to meet him, he sank into a chair and wept aloud.

He had been one of those who had lifted the brokenhearted Wolsey from his mule in the cloister
of Leicester Abbey, he had carried him to his bed, watched over him, and supported him, as
the Abbot of Leicester gave him the last Sacraments.  He had heard and treasured up those mournful
words which are Wolsey's chief legacy to the world, "Had I but served my God, as I have served
my king, He would not have forsaken me in my old age."  For himself, he had the dying man's
blessing, and assurance that nothing had so much availed to cheer in these sad hours as his
faithful love.

Now, Perronel might do what she would with him--he cared not.

And what she did was to set forth with him for Hampshire, on a pair of stout mules with a strong
serving-man behind them.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

THE SOLDIER.

  "Of a worthy London prentice
  My purpose is to speak,
  And tell his brave adventures
  Done for his country's sake.
  Seek all the world about
  And you shall hardly find
  A man in valour to exceed
  A prentice' gallant mind."
  The Homes of a London Prentice.

Six more years had passed over the Dragon court, when, one fine summer evening, as the old
walls rang with the merriment of the young boys at play, there entered through the gateway
a tall, well-equipped, soldierly figure, which caught the eyes of the little armourer world
in a moment. "Oh, that's a real Milan helmet!" exclaimed the one lad.

"And oh, what a belt and buff coat!" cried another.

The subject of their admiration advanced muttering, "As if I'd not been away a week," adding,
"I pray you, pretty lads, doth Master Alderman Headley still dwell here?"

"Yea, sir, he is our grandfather," said the elder boy, holding a lesser one by the shoulder
as he spoke.

"Verily!  And what may be your names?"

"I am Giles Birkenholt, and this is my little brother, Dick."

"Even as I thought.  Wilt thou run in to your grandsire, and tell him?"

The bigger boy interrupted, "Grandfather is going to bed.  He is old and weary, and cannot
see strangers so late.  'Tis our father who heareth all the orders."

"And," added the little one, with wide-open grave eyes, "Mother bade us run out and play and
not trouble father, because uncle Ambrose is so downcast because they have cut off the head
of good Sir Thomas More."

"Yet," said the visitor, "methinks your father would hear of an old comrade.  Or stay, where
be Tibble Steelman and Kit Smallbones?"

"Tibble is in the hall, well-nigh as sad as uncle Ambrose," began Dick; but Giles, better able
to draw conclusions, exclaimed, "Tibble!  Kit! You know them, sir!  Oh! are you the Giles Headley
that ran away to be a soldier ere I was born?  Kit!  Kit! see here--" as the giant, broader
and perhaps a little more bent, but with little loss of strength, came forward out of his hut,
and taking up the matter just where it had been left fourteen years before, demanded as they
shook hands, "Ah, Master Giles, how couldst thou play me such a scurvy trick?"

"Nay, Kit, was it not best for all that I turned my back to make way for honest Stephen?"

By this time young Giles had rushed up the stair to the hall, where, as he said truly, Stephen
was giving his brother such poor comfort as could be had from sympathy, when listening to the
story of the cheerful, brave resignation of the noblest of all the victims of Henry the Eighth.
Ambrose had been with Sir Thomas well-nigh to the last, had carried messages between him and
his friends during his imprisonment, had handed his papers to him at his trial, had been with
Mrs Roper when she broke through the crowd and fell on his neck as he walked from Westminster
Hall with the axe-edge turned towards him; had received his last kind farewell, counsel, and
blessing, and had only not been with him on the scaffold because Sir Thomas had forbidden it,
saying, in the old strain of mirth, which never forsook him, "Nay, come not, my good friend.
Thou art of a queasy nature, and I would fain not haunt thee against thy will."

All was over now, the wise and faithful head had fallen, because it would not own the wrong
for the right; and Ambrose had been brought home by his brother, a being confounded, dazed,
seeming hardly able to think or understand aught save that the man whom he had above all loved
and looked up to was taken from him, judicially murdered, and by the King. The whole world
seemed utterly changed to him, and as to thinking or planning for himself, he was incapable
of it; indeed, he looked fearfully ill.  His little nephew came up to his father's knee, pausing,
though open-mouthed, and at the first token of permission, bursting out, "Oh! father!  Here's
a soldier in the court!  Kit is talking to him. And he is Giles Headley that ran away.  He
has a beauteous Spanish leathern coat, and a belt with silver bosses--and a morion that Phil
Smallbones saith to be of Milan, but I say it is French."

Stephen had no sooner gathered the import of this intelligence than he sprang down almost as
rapidly as his little boy, with his welcome.  Nor did Giles Headley return at all in the dilapidated
condition that had been predicted.  He was stout, comely, and well fleshed, and very handsomely
clad and equipped in a foreign style, with nothing of the lean wolfish appearance of Sir John
Fulford.  The two old comrades heartily shook one another by the hand in real gladness at the
meeting. Stephen's welcome was crossed by the greeting and inquiry whether all was well.

"Yea.  The alderman is hale and hearty, but aged.  Your mother is tabled at a religious house
at Salisbury."

"I know.  I landed at Southampton and have seen her."

"And Dennet," Stephen added with a short laugh, "she could not wait for you."

"No, verily.  Did I not wot well that she cared not a fico for me?  I hoped when I made off
that thou wouldst be the winner, Steve, and I am right glad thou art, man."

"I can but thank thee, Giles," said Stephen, changing to the familiar singular pronoun.  "I
have oft since thought what a foolish figure I should have cut had I met thee among the Badgers,
after having given leg bail because I might not brook seeing thee wedded to her.  For I was
sore tempted--only thou wast free, and mine indenture held me fast."

"Then it was so!  And I did thee a good turn!  For I tell thee, Steve, I never knew how well
I liked thee till I was wounded and sick among those who heeded neither God nor man!  But one
word more, Stephen, ere we go in.  The Moor's little maiden, is she still unwedded?"

"Yea," was Stephen's answer.  "She is still waiting-maid to Mistress Roper, daughter to good
Sir Thomas More; but alack, Giles, they are in sore trouble, as it may be thou hast heard--and
my poor brother is like one distraught."

Ambrose did indeed meet Giles like one in a dream.  He probably would have made the same mechanical
greeting, if the Emperor or the Pope had been at that moment presented to him; but Dennet,
who had been attending to her father, made up all that was wanting in cordiality.  She had
always had a certain sense of shame for having flouted her cousin, and, as his mother told
her, driven him to death and destruction, and it was highly satisfactory to see him safe and
sound, and apparently respectable and prosperous.

Moreover, grieved as all the family were for the fate of the admirable and excellent More,
it was a relief to those less closely connected with him to attend to something beyond poor
Ambrose's sorrow and his talk, the which moreover might be perilous if any outsider listened
and reported it to the authorities as disaffection to the King.  So Giles told his story, sitting
on the gallery in the cool of the summer evening, and marvelling over and over again how entirely
unchanged all was since his first view of the Dragon court as a proud, sullen, raw lad twenty
summers ago.  Since that time he had seen so much that the time appeared far longer to him
than to those who had stayed at home.

It seemed that Fulford had from the first fascinated him more than any of the party guessed,
and that each day of the free life of the expedition, and of contact with the soldiery, made
a return to the monotony of the forge, the decorous life of a London citizen, and the bridal
with a child, to whom he was indifferent, seem more intolerable to him.  Fulford imagining
rightly that the knowledge of his intentions might deter young Birkenholt from escaping, enjoined
strict secrecy on either lad, not intending them to meet till it should be too late to return,
and therefore had arranged that Giles should quit the party on the way to Calais, bringing
with him Will Wherry, and the horse he rode.

Giles had then, been enrolled among the Badgers.  He had little to tell about his life among
them till the battle of Pavia, where he had had the good fortune to take three French prisoners;
but a stray shot from a fugitive had broken his leg during the pursuit, and he had been laid
up in a merchant's house at Pavia for several months.  He evidently looked back to the time
with gratitude, as having wakened his better associations, which had been well-nigh stifled
during the previous years of the wild life of a soldier of fortune.  His host's young daughter
had eyes like Aldonza, and the almost forgotten possibility of returning to his love a brave
and distinguished man awoke once more.  His burgher thrift began to assert itself again, and
he deposited a nest-egg from the ransoms of his prisoners in the hands of his host, who gave
him bonds by which he could recover the sum from Lombard correspondents in London.

He was bound by his engagements to join the Badgers again, or he would have gone home on his
recovery; and he had shared in the terrible taking of Rome, of which he declared that he could
not speak--with a significant look at Dennet and her children, who were devouring his words.
He had, however, stood guard over a lady and her young children whom some savage Spaniards
were about to murder, and the whole family had overpowered him with gratitude, lodged him sumptuously
in their house, and shown themselves as grateful to him as if he had given them all the treasure
which he had abstained from seizing.

The sickness brought on by their savage excesses together with the Roman summer had laid low
many of the Badgers.  When the Prince of Orange drew off the army from the miserable city,
scarce seven score of that once gallant troop were in marching order, and Sir John Fulford
himself was dying.  He sent for Giles, as less of a demon than most of the troop, and sent
a gold medal, the only fragment of spoil remaining to him, to his daughter Perronel.  To Giles
himself Fulford bequeathed Abenali's well-tested sword, and he died in the comfortable belief--so
far as he troubled himself about the matter at all--that there were special exemptions for
soldiers.

