FIANS, FAIRIES AND PICTS

BY

DAVID MACRITCHIE

AUTHOR OF "THE TESTIMONY OF TRADITION"

     "Sometimes ... it seems that the stones are really
     speaking--speaking of the old things, of the time when the strange
     fishes and animals lived that are turned into stone now, and the
     lakes were here; and then of the time when the little Bushmen lived
     here, so small and so ugly, and used to sleep in the wild dog
     holes, and in the 'sloots,' and eat snakes, and shoot the bucks
     with their poisoned arrows ... Now the Boers have shot them all, so
     that we never see a little yellow face peeping out among the stones
     ... And the wild bucks have gone, and those days, and we are
     here."--WALDO, in The Story of an African Farm.

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

LONDON KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRÜBNER & CO., LTD. PATERNOSTER HOUSE, CHARING CROSS ROAD 1893

INTRODUCTION.

The following treatise is to some extent a re-statement and partly an amplification of a theory
I have elsewhere advanced.[1] But as that theory, although it has been advocated by several
writers, especially during the past half-century, is not familiar to everybody, some remarks
of an explanatory nature are necessary. And if this explanation assumes a narrative form, not
without a tinge of autobiography, it is because this seems the most convenient way of stating
the case.

It is now a dozen years or thereabouts since I first read the "Popular Tales of the West Highlands,"
by Mr. J.F. Campbell, otherwise known by his courtesy-title of "Campbell of Islay." Mr. Campbell
was, as many people know, a Highland gentleman of good family, who devoted much of his time
to collecting and studying the oral traditions of his own district and of many lands. His equipment
as a student of West Highland folklore was unique. He had the necessary knowledge of Gaelic,
the hereditary connection with the district which made him at home with the poorest peasant,
and the sympathetic nature which proved a master-key in opening the storehouse of inherited
belief. It is not likely that another Campbell of Islay will arise, and, indeed, in these days
of decaying tradition, he would be born too late.

In reading his book, then, for the first time, what impressed me more than anything else in
his pages were statements such as the following:--

     "The ancient Gauls wore helmets which represented beasts. The
     enchanted king's sons, when they come home to their dwellings, put
     off cochal [a Gaelic word signifying], the husk, and become men;
     and when they go out they resume the cochal, and become animals
     of various kinds. May this not mean that they put on their armour?
     They marry a plurality of wives in many stories. In short, the
     enchanted warriors are, as I verily believe, nothing but real men,
     and their manners real manners, seen through a haze of
     centuries.... I do not mean that the tales date from any particular
     period, but that traces of all periods may be found in them--that
     various actors have played the same parts time out of mind, and
     that their manners and customs are all mixed together, and truly,
     though confusedly, represented--that giants and fairies and
     enchanted princes were men ... that tales are but garbled popular
     history, of a long journey through forests and wilds, inhabited by
     savages and wild beasts; of events that occurred on the way from
     east to west, in the year of grace, once upon a time" (I.
     cxv.-cxvi.). "The Highland giants were not so big but that their
     conquerors wore their clothes; they were not so strong that men
     could not beat them, even by wrestling. They were not quite
     savages; for though some lived in caves, others had houses and
     cattle and hoards of spoil" (I. xcix.). "And though I do not myself
     believe that fairies are ... I believe there once was a small
     race of people in these islands, who are remembered as fairies, for
     the fairy belief is not confined to the Highlanders of Scotland"
     (I. c.) "This class of stories is so widely spread, so
     matter-of-fact, hangs so well together, and is so implicitly
     believed all over the United Kingdom, that I am persuaded of the
     former existence of a race of men in these islands who were smaller
     in stature than the Celts; who used stone arrows, lived in conical
     mounds like the Lapps, knew some mechanical arts, pilfered goods
     and stole children; and were perhaps contemporary with some species
     of wild cattle and horses and great auks, which frequented marshy
     ground, and are now remembered as water-bulls and water-horses, and
     boobries, and such like impossible creatures" (IV. 344).

And much more to the same effect,[2] with which it is unnecessary to trouble the reader. Now,
all this was quite new to me. If I had ever given a second thought to the so-called "supernatural"
beings of tradition, it was only to dismiss them, in the conventional manner as creatures of
the imagination. But these ideas of Mr. Campbell's were decidedly interesting, and deserving
of consideration. It was obvious that tradition, especially where there had been an intermixture
of races, could not preserve one clear, unblemished record of the past; and this he fully recognised.
But it seemed equally obvious that the "matter-of-fact" element to which he refers could not
have owed its origin to myth or fancy. The question being fascinating, there was therefore
no alternative but to make further inquiry. And the more it was considered, the more did his
theory proclaim its reasonableness. He suggests, for example, that certain "fairy herds" in
Sutherlandshire were probably reindeer, that the "fairies" who milked those reindeer were probably
of the same race as Lapps, and that not unlikely they were the people historically known as
Picts. The fact that Picts once occupied northern Scotland formed no obstacle to his theory.
And when I learned that the reindeer was hunted in that part of Scotland as recently as the
twelfth century, that remains of reindeer horns are still to be found in the counties of Sutherland,
Ross, and Caithness, sometimes in the very structures ascribed to the Picts, then I perceived
this to be a theory which, to quote his words, "hung well together." Further, the actual Lapps
are a small-statured race, the fairies also were so described, and this, too, I found to be
the traditional idea regarding the Picts. Here the identification was closer still. Then came
the consideration: The fairies lived in hollow hillocks and under the ground: what kind of
dwellings are the Picts supposed to have occupied? The answer to this question still further
strengthened Mr. Campbell's conjecture. There yet exist numerous underground structures and
artificial mounds whose interior shows them to have been dwelling-places; and these are in
some places known as "fairy halls" and in others as "Picts' houses." (Illustrations of these
are shown in the present volume, and are specially referred to in the annexed paper.)

The examination, therefore, of this interesting theory not only helped greatly to bear out
its probable correctness, but it further began to appear that by following this method of inquiry
new lights might be thrown upon history--perhaps upon very remote history. It was clear that
the question was not a simple one. All tradition is obscured by the darkness of time, and genuine
fact is mixed up with ideas which belong to the world of religion and of myth. Even in Mr.
Campbell's own statements there were seeming contradictions. These, however, it is not my present
purpose to discuss; since they do not vitally affect his main contention.

The Lapp-Dwarf parallel was gone into very fully by Professor Nilsson in his Primitive Inhabitants
of Scandinavia, written twenty years before the "West Highland Tales." Scott, again, refers
us back to Einar Gudmund, an Icelandic writer of the second half of the sixteenth century,
whom I would cite as the earliest "Euhemerus" of northern lands, were it not for the fact that
he is obviously much more than a theorist, and is beyond all doubt speaking of an actual race,
as may be seen from an incident which he relates.

But, although the popular memory may retain for many centuries the impress of historical facts,
these become inevitably blurred and modified by the lapse of time and the ignorance of the
very people who preserve the tradition. As an illustration of this, I may cite the instance
of the dwarfs of Yesso, referred to in the following pages. These people still survived as
a separate community until the first half of the seventeenth century, if not later. They occupied
semi-subterranean or "pit" dwellings, and are said to have been under four feet in height.
But, although the modern inhabitants of that island still describe them, on the whole, in these
terms, a new belief regarding them has recently sprouted up in one corner. The Aïno word signifying
"pit-dweller" is also not unlike the word for a burdock leaf. It was known that those dwarfs
were little people. Obviously, then, their name must have meant "people living under burdock
leaves" (instead of "in pits"). And so, to some of the modern natives of Yesso, those historical
dwarfs of the seventeenth century "were so small that if caught in a shower of rain or attacked
by an enemy, they would stand beneath a burdock leaf for shelter, or flee thither to hide."[4]

In that instance, we see before our eyes the whole process by which a real race has been transformed
into an unreal impossibility, within a period of two centuries or so. Had the extinction (or
modification by inter-marriage or by the processes of evolution) of those Yesso dwarfs taken
place a thousand years earlier, the difficulty of identifying them would have been greatly
increased. After a race has once disappeared from sight, the popular terms describing it must
become more vague and confused with every century. Thus, in a certain traditional Scotch story
there is mention of a number of "little black creatures with spades." The description is delightfully
comprehensive. It would be quite applicable to a gang of Andaman coolies. On the other hand,
if we exclude the "spades," it might be applied to any "little black creatures"--say a colony
of tadpoles or of black-beetles. So that, when a poet or an artist gets hold of a tradition
which has reached this stage of uncertainty, he may give the reins to his fancy, so long as
he portrays some kind--any kind--of "little black creatures."[5]

Before parting altogether from the Yesso dwarfs, notice may be taken of a folk-tale containing
an incident which obviously derives its existence from them, or from a branch of their race.
In Mr. Andrew Lang's "Green Fairy Book" there is introduced a certain Chinese "Story of Hok
Lee and the Dwarfs." It appears to be also current in Japan, to judge from a reviewer's remark,
that "the clever artist who has illustrated the book must have known the Japanese story, for
he gets some of his ideas from the Japanese picture-maker." In the story of Hok Lee the dwarfs
are represented as living in subterranean dwellings, and in the picture they are portrayed
as half-naked, with (for the most part) shaggy beards and eyebrows, and bald heads. It is wonderfully
near the truth. The baldness is one of the most striking characteristics of those actual dwarfs,
and is caused by a certain skin-disease, induced by their dirty habits, from which a great
number of them suffer, or did suffer. The shaggy beards and eyebrows are equally characteristic
of the race; and their custom of occupying half-underground dwellings has given them the name
by which they are remembered in Japan at the present day. The exact scene of the story is a
matter of minor importance. Those people appear to have been known to the Chinese for at least
twelve centuries, and to the Japanese for a much longer period. Thus, it was quite unnecessary
for any novelist in China or Japan to invent such people, since they already existed. As for
the details of that particular story, or of any other of the kind, it is not to be supposed
that a belief in its historical basis necessarily implies an acceptance of every statement
contained in it. On this principle, one would be bound to accept the truth of every "snake-story,"
for the simple reason that one believed in the existence of snakes. Still, it is possible,
and perhaps not improbable, that tales which preserve the memory of those people, may also
be fairly accurate in many of the statements made regarding them. The reason, however, of introducing
this particular story is to show that the Chinese or Japanese romancer did not require to create
a race of bald-headed, shaggy, half-wild dwarfs, seeing that that had already been done for
him by the Creator.

Those to whom this question is a new one will now see what is the point of view of the realist
or euhemerist with regard to such traditions. He sees here and there in the past, through much
intervening mist, something that looks like a real object, and he tries to define its outlines.
He has no intention of denying, as some have vainly imagined, that there is an intervening
mist. Nor, it seems necessary to explain, does he assume that wherever there is a mist there
must be some tangible object behind it. For example, he does not believe that Boreas, or Zephyrus,
or Jack Frost were ever anything but personifications of certain natural forces.

Various other considerations have also to be borne in mind; not the least important of which
is the fact that the very people who have preserved these traditional beliefs have done much
to obscure them, owing to their want of education. Scott tells a story of a Scotch peasant
who, discovering a company of gaily-dressed puppets standing in a thicket, where they had been
concealed by a travelling showman, at once concluded that they were "fairies." He had inherited
the belief that fairies were "little people" who frequented just such places as this; consequently,
he decided these were fairies. This fact was elicited in court, where the countryman had to
appear as a witness. From that time onward his mind ought to have been disabused of his hasty
belief. But a man so stupid as to assume that a showman's marionettes were anything else than
lifeless dolls, might continue for the rest of his life to recount his marvellous meeting with
"the fairies." Similarly, to a tipsy man returning homeward from market, many common and every-day
objects take on a weird and superhuman aspect, due to no other spirits than those he has consumed.
From this cause, a large number of odd stories (such as one told by Mr. William Black of a
tipsy Hebridean) has doubtless arisen. Further, the belief in the existence of "supernatural"
beings has been much utilised by rustic humourists, and no doubt also by smugglers and other
night-birds, in comparatively recent times. The prolonged absence of a husband, or it may be
of a wife, could be explained by some wild legend of having been "stolen by the fairies," when
a more frank avowal dared not be offered. And although "strange tales were told" regarding
the paternity of "Brian," in The Lady of the Lake, and although Scott adheres to those legends
in his poem, he does not fail to point out in his appended Note that the story could be explained
in a much more rational manner. There have been many "Brians."

To give this subject the special attention which it deserves would, however, swell these introductory
notes to an intolerable size; and, indeed, their purpose is rather to show what the euhemeristic
theory is than what it is not; that is to say, the euhemeristic theory as applied to the traditions
relating to dwarf races.

In the work to which I have referred, the opinions enunciated by Professor Nilsson and Mr.
J.F. Campbell, together with other developments which suggested themselves to me, were duly
set forth, and were received, as was to be expected, with every form of comment, from complete
approval to entire dissent. Among the adverse criticisms, some arose from a misapprehension
of the case, while others were due to the critic's imperfect acquaintance with the subject
he professed to discuss. But besides these, there were of course the legitimate objections
which can always be urged in matters of a debateable character, where there is no positive
evidence on either side. With regard to such I can at least echo the words of one of the most
eminent and most courteous of my opponents, M. Charles Ploix, and say for euhemerism what he
says for naturalism:--"Tant que la théorie sur laquelle il s'appuie n'aura pas été démontrée
fausse par des arguments décisifs, et surtout tant qu'elle n'aura pas été remplacée par une
hypothèse plus certaine, il pourra continuer à s'affirmer."[6]

It ought to be mentioned that the following paper was written for the Folk-Lore Society, at
one of whose meetings (in February 1892) it was subsequently read. As, however, the Council
of that Society ultimately decided that the paper was unsuited for publication in a journal
devoted to the study of folk-lore, it now appears in a separate form. One advantage to be derived
from this is that the illustrations which accompanied the lecture, and which are of much importance
in enabling one to understand the argument, can also be reproduced at the same time. It may
be added that, while the theme is capable of much amplification,[7] have preferred to print
the paper as it was written for the occasion referred to. It states, concisely enough, the
leading points of the argument.

To those who are interested in the "realistic" interpretation of such traditions, I beg to
recommend for reference the following works:--First and foremost, there is "The Anatomy of
a Pygmie," by Dr. Edward Tyson (London, 1699), a book full of suggestive notices. This author
has undoubtedly reached the "bed-rock" of the question; but, owing to his era and mental environment,
he has not realised that his argument is useless without a consideration of the various stratifications
above the "bed-rock." Belonging to the same century is the chapter "Of Pigmies" in Sir Thomas
Browne's "Vulgar Errors," wherein he makes several very interesting statements, although he
argues from the opposite side. Scattered throughout the writings of Sir Walter Scott, both
poetry and prose, there are also many references bearing upon this question, from the realistic
point of view. In addition to these, there is his well-known treatise "On the Fairies of Popular
Superstition," prefaced to "The Tale of Tamlane," wherein he states that "the most distinct
account of the duergar [i.e. dwergs, or dwarfs], or elves, and their attributes, is to be found
in a preface of Torfæus to the history of Hrolf Kraka [Copenhagen, 1715], who cites a dissertation
by Einar Gudmund, a learned native of Iceland. 'I am firmly of opinion,' says the Icelander,
'that these beings are creatures of God, consisting, like human beings, of a body and rational
soul; that they are of different sexes, and capable of producing children, and subject to all
human affections, as sleeping and waking, laughing and crying, poverty and wealth; and that
they possess cattle and other effects, and are obnoxious to death, like other mortals.' He
proceeds to state that the females of this race are capable of procreating with mankind;[8]
and gives an account of one who bore a child to an inhabitant of Iceland, for whom she claimed
the privilege of baptism; depositing the infant for that purpose at the gate of the churchyard,
together with a goblet of gold as an offering."[9] Scott further cites from Jessen's De Lapponibus
similar matter-of-fact details obtained on this subject from the Lapps; who, on their own showing,
are inferentially the half-bred descendants of dwarfs.

"That some of the myths of giants and dwarfs are connected with traditions of real indigenous
or hostile tribes is settled beyond question by the evidence brought forward by Grimm, Nilsson,
and Hanusch," observes Dr. E.B. Tylor.[10] And although that eminent anthropologist sees a
different meaning in many kindred traditions, yet his observations, and the great mass of references
which he gives in connection with this single detail, are of much interest to euhemerists pure
and simple. The late Sir Daniel Wilson's "Caliban"[11] teems with the realistic doctrine, and
so also does a work of (in my opinion) less equal merit, "The Pedigree of the Devil,"[12] by
Mr. Frederic T. Hall. In Mr. R.G. Haliburton's "Dwarfs of Mount Atlas: with notes as to Dwarfs
and Dwarf Worship,"[13] and also in his "Further Notes"[14] on that subject, the same idea
is prominent. All of these writers, with the exception of Sir Thomas Browne (and excluding
Dr. Tylor in so far as regards some of his deductions), refer practically, though in varying
degrees, to the question discussed by Tyson; and in this respect I must also cite my recent
work on "The Aïnos" (pp. 51-66). Of other writers who have not probed quite so deeply, and
who possibly may not recognise the necessity for so doing, but who are realists nevertheless,
the following may be mentioned: M. Paul Monceaux, who, in the Revue Historique of October 1891,
deals with the African dwarfs of ancient and modern writers;[15] Professor Henri van Elven,
the main theme of whose forthcoming work, Les Nains préhistoriques de l'Europe Occidentale,
formed the subject of a paper recently read by him before the Société d'Archéologie de Bruxelles;
and MM. Grandgagnage and De Reul, cited by Mr. C. Carter Blake, F.G.S., in connection with
the Nutons of the Belgian bone-caves;[16] as also another writer of the Low Countries, Van
den Bergh ("xxx. and 313"), whom Mr. J. Dirks quotes at p. 15 of his Heidens of Egyptiërs,
Utrecht, 1850. In Mr. W.G. Black's charming book on Heligoland,[17] one passage (p. 72) recognises
that a certain Sylt tradition "is evidently one of those valuable legends which illuminate
dark pages of history. It clearly bears testimony to the same small race having inhabited Friesland
in times which we trace in the caves of the Neolithic age, and of which the Esquimaux are the
only survivors." For many of the kindred traditions in that locality, one cannot do better
than refer to Mr. Christian Jensen's Zwergsagen aus Nordfriesland, contributed to the Zeitschrift
des Vereins für Volkskunde (Berlin, Heft 4, 1892).

       *       *       *       *       *

[The foregoing pages were all in type before the appearance of Vol. VIII. of the Bibliothèque
de Carabas, which contains several criticisms by Mr. Andrew Lang on my "Testimony of Tradition"
and "Underground Life." The already excessive length of this Introduction prevents me from
now referring more particularly to these observations, as I should otherwise have done. In
the meantime, however, I beg to refer Mr. Lang to the present work, and to ask him whether
he thinks the statements there quoted substantiate his conception of the Fir Sidhe as a deathless
people, occupying some region "unknown of earth."

An addition to the Bibliography of this subject is made in the above-named volume (p. 88).
"In his Scottish Scenery (1803), Dr. Cririe suggests that the germ of the Fairy myth is the
existence of dispossessed aboriginals dwelling in subterranean houses, in some places called
Picts' houses, covered with artificial mounds. The lights seen near the mounds are lights actually
carried by the mound-dwellers." Mr. Lang adds: "Dr. Cririe works out in some detail 'this marvellously
absurd supposition,' as the Quarterly Review calls it (vol. lix. p. 280)."]

[Footnote 1: The Testimony of Tradition. Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner & Co., London, 1890.]

[Footnote 2: Such as at pp. ci.-cix. of Vol. I., and pp. 46, 101, and 275 of Vol. II.]

[Footnote 3: Scott, however, had only imperfectly grasped this idea. In numerous passages he
inconsistently refers to "the little people" as purely the creatures of imagination.]

[Footnote 4: A description of those dwarfs, obtained from Japanese records and pictures, may
be seen in my monograph on "The Aïnos" (Supplement to Vol. IV. of the Internationales Archiv
für Ethnographie, Leiden, 1892). Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner & Co., London.]

[Footnote 5: Similarly, the "little Bushmen" referred to by Miss Olive Schreiner's Waldo (as
quoted by me on the title-page) would be remembered with as much uncertainty a century hence
if the modern population of South Africa had nothing but tradition to depend upon. (It may
be explained, in case of misapprehension on the part of any too-literal reader, that that quotation
is not supposed to prove that the earth-dwellers of the Hebrides were small and ugly, with
"little yellow faces," any more than it proves the reindeer of Scotland to have been identical
with the wild buck of South Africa. But the cases are analogous, and the quotation seems à
propos.)]

[Footnote 6: Le Surnaturel dans les Contes Populaires, Paris, 1891, p. iv.]

[Footnote 7: Some portions of it I have already amplified: in a pamphlet entitled "The Underground
Life," Edinburgh, 1892 (privately printed); in a paper on "Subterranean Dwellings," contributed
to The Antiquary (London: Elliot Stock) of August 1892; and at pp. 52-58 of "The Aïnos," previously
quoted.]

[Footnote 8: By "mankind" need only be understood the race to which Einar Gudmund belonged.
It is well known that many races apply the term "men" to themselves alone. At the same time,
Gudmund's words may denote a very marked difference in the two types.]

[Footnote 9: Scott again quotes this story, in fuller detail, in the Appendix to The Lady of
the Lake, Note 3 C.]

[Footnote 10: "Primitive Culture," vol. i. p. 385 (3rd edition).]

[Footnote 11: London, Macmillan and Co., 1873.]

[Footnote 12: London, Trübner and Co., 1883.]

[Footnote 13: London, David Nutt, 1891.]

[Footnote 14: Asiatic Quarterly Review, July 1892.]

[Footnote 15: For an exhaustive account of "The Pygmy Tribes of Africa," treated from the purely
scientific and ethnological point of view see Dr. Henry Schlichter's articles in The Scottish
Geographical Magazine of June and July 1892.]

[Footnote 16: Memoirs of the Anthropological Society of London, vol. iii. 1870, pp. 320, 321.]

[Footnote 17: Blackwood and Sons, 1888.]

FIANS, FAIRIES AND PICTS.

The general belief at the present day is that, of the three designations here classed together,
only that of the Picts is really historical. The Fians are regarded as merely legendary--perhaps
altogether mythical beings; and the Fairies as absolutely unreal. On the other hand, there
are those who believe that the three terms all relate to historical people, closely akin to
each other, if not actually one people under three names.

To those unacquainted with the views of the realists, or euhemerists, it is necessary to explain
that the popular definition of Fairies as "little people" is one which that school is quite
ready to accept. But the conception of such "little people" as tiny beings of aërial and ethereal
nature, able to fly on a bat's back, or to sip honey from the flowers "where the bee sucks,"
is regarded by the realists as simply the outcome of the imagination, working upon a basis
of fact. An illustration of this position may be seen in the Far East. There is a tradition
among the Aïnos of Northern Japan that they were preceded by a race of "little people," only
a few inches in height, whose pit-dwellings they still point out. But the pottery and the skeletons
associated with these habitations show that not only were their occupants of a stature to be
measured by feet rather than by inches, but also that, by reason of a certain anatomical peculiarity
common to both, the traditional dwarfs were very clearly the ancestors of the Aïnos--a race
which, though now blended, was once most distinctly a race of dwarfs, if one is to believe
the earliest Japanese pictures of them. Similarly, the dwarfs of European tradition are believed
to have had as real an origin as the little people of Aïno legend, at any rate by those who
hold the realistic theory.

Any attempt to reconcile the pygmies of the classic writers with actual dwarfs of flesh and
blood is outside my province. Moreover, this has been admirably, and, as it seems to me, successfully
done quite recently by M. Paul Monceaux, in an article in the Revue Historique,[18] wherein
he compares the traditional and historical descriptions with the statements of modern travellers,
and draws the inference that the pygmies of the Greek and Roman writers, sculptors and painters,
are all derived from actual dwarfs seen by their forefathers in Africa and India. (Still less
doubt is there with regard to the dwarfs in Ancient Egyptian paintings.) And whereas Strabo
is, says M. Monceaux, the only writer of antiquity who questions the existence of the dwarfs,
all the others are on the side of Aristotle, who says--"This is no fable; there really exists
in that region (the sources of the Nile), as people relate, a race of little men, who have
small horses and who live in holes." And these little men were of course the ancestors of Schweinfurth's
and Stanley's dwarfs.

But although M. Monceaux confines his identification to equatorial Africa and to India, he
does not omit to state that Pliny and other writers speak of dwarf tribes in other localities,
and among these are "the vague regions of the north, designated by the name of Thule." This
area, vague enough certainly, is the territory with which Fians and Picts are both associated;
as, also, of course, the Fairies of North European tradition.

The attributes with which the "little people" of North Europe are accredited cannot be given
in detail here. It is enough to note that they were believed to live in houses wholly or partly
underground, the latter kind being described as "hollow" mounds, or hills; that when people
of taller race entered such subterranean dwellings (as occasionally they did) they found the
domestic utensils of the dwarfs were of the kind labelled "pre-historic" in our antiquarian
museums; that the copper vessels which dwarf women sometimes left behind them when discovered
surreptitiously milking the cows of their neighbours, were likewise of an antique form; further,
that they helped themselves to the beef and mutton of their neighbours, after having shot the
animals with flint-headed arrows; that melodies peculiar to them are still sung by the peasants
of certain localities; that words used by them are still employed by children in their games;
and that many families in many districts are believed to have inherited some of their blood.[19]
Of this intercourse between the taller races and the dwarfs, there are many records in old
traditions. In the days of King Arthur, when, as Chaucer tells us, the land was "ful-filled
of faërie," the knights errant had usually a dwarf as attendant. One of King Arthur's own knights
was a Fairy.[20] According to Highland tradition, every high-caste family of pure Gaelic descent
had an attendant dwarf. These examples show the "little people" in a not unfriendly light.
But many other stories speak of them as "malignant" foes, and as dreaded oppressors. Of which
the rational explanation is that these various tales relate to various localities and epochs.

The connection visible between Fians and Fairies, between Fians and Picts, and between Picts
and Fairies, may now briefly be stated.

The earliest known association of the first two classes occurs in an Irish manuscript of the
eleventh or twelfth century,[21] wherein it is stated that when the ninth-century Danes overran
and plundered Ireland, there was nothing "in concealment under ground in Erinn, or in the various
secret places belonging to Fians or to Fairies" that they did not discover and appropriate.
This statement receives strong confirmation from a Scandinavian record, the Landnáma-bok, which
says[22] that, in or about the year 870, a well-known Norse chief named Leif

     "went on warfare in the west. He made war in Ireland, and there
     found a large underground house; he went down into it, and it was
     dark until light shone from a sword in the hand of a man. Leif
     killed the man, and took the sword and much property.... He made
     war widely in Ireland, and got much property. He took ten thralls."

Although the Scandinavian record does not speak of the owner of the earth-house as either a
"Fian" or a "Fairy," it is quite evident that this is an example of the plundering referred
to in the Irish chronicle, and that the Gaels of Ireland seven or eight centuries ago, if not
a thousand years ago, regarded the underground people as indifferently Fians and Fairies.[23]

Many other associations of Fians with Fairies are to be seen. In one of the old traditional
ballads regarding the Fians, they are described as feasting with Fairies in one of their "hollow"
mounds.[24] A Sutherlandshire story relates the adventures of the son of a Fairy woman, who
took service with Ossian, the king of the Fians.[25] One of the Fians (Caoilte) had a Fairy
sweet-heart.[26] Another of them (Oscar) has an interview with a washerwoman who is a Fairy.[27]
A Fenian story recounts how one day the Fians were working in the harvest-field, in the Argyleshire
island of Tiree, and on that occasion they had "left their weapons of war in the armoury of
the Fairy Hill of Caolas";[28] from which one is to infer that the Fians made use of Fairy
dwellings. In the same collection of tales we are told[29] that one time when the Fians were
hunting in the Isle of Skye, they left their wives in a dwelling which bore a title "applied
to dwellings of the Elfin race." It is further stated that one popular belief in the Scottish
Highlands is that the Fians are still lying in the hill of Tomnahurich, near Inverness, and
that "others say they are lying in Glenorchy, Argyleshire."[30] Now, both the Inverness-shire
mound and the mounds in Glenorchy are also popularly regarded as the abodes of Fairies.[31]
The vitrified fort on Knock-Farril, in Ross-shire, is said to have been one of Fin McCoul's
castles;[32] and Knock-Farril, or rather "a knoll opposite Knock-Farril" is remembered as the
abode of the Fairies of that district.[33] Glenshee, in Perthshire, is celebrated equally as
a Fairy haunt and as a favourite hunting-ground of the Fians. The Fians, indeed, were said
to have lived by deer-hunting, so much so that Campbell of Islay suggests that their name signifies
"the deer men"; and the deer, it is believed, "were a fairy race."[34] The famous hound of
the famous leader of the Fians was "a Fairy or Elfin dog." In short, the connection between
Fians and Fairies, recognised in the Gaelic manuscript of eight or ten centuries ago, is apparent
throughout the traditions of the Gaelic-speaking people.

But if the Fians were either identical with, or closely akin to the Fairies, they must have
been "little people." The belief that they were so is supported by one traditional Fenian story.
This is the well-known tale of the visit of Fin, the famous chief of the Fians, to a country
known to him and his people as "The Land of the Big Men." The story tells how Fin sailed from
Dublin Bay in his skin-boat, crossed the sea to that country, and shortly after landing was
captured and taken to the palace of the king, where he was appointed court dwarf,[35] and remained
for a considerable time the attached and faithful adherent of the king. The collector of this
story has assumed that it is purely imaginary. But let it be contrasted with the following
extract from the Heimskringla. The period is the early part of the eleventh century, and the
scene Norway: "There was a man from the Uplands called Fin the Little, and some said of him
that he was of Finnish race. Now, the Heimskringla Fin is unquestionably a historical personage,
and the account of him was written by a twelfth century historian. The Gaelic story was only
obtained in the Hebrides, and reduced to writing twenty-three years ago. Although Fin of the
Fians is stated in Irish records to be the grandson of a Finland woman,[37] and although the
Scandinavian and the Hebridean tales look very much like two versions of one story, this cannot
precisely be the case, as the Fenian Fin is placed in an earlier era than his namesake of Norway.
A dwarf king named Fin is also remembered in Frisian tradition;[38] and that he and his race
were small men is pretty clearly proved by the fact that when one of the earth-houses attributed
to him was opened some years ago, it was found to contain the bones of a little man.[39] Both
of these dwarf Fins, Little Fin of Norway and Little Fin of Denmark, are undoubtedly real;
and there seems no good reason to suppose that the dwarf Fin of Hebridean tradition was not
equally real. Whether they were three separate people is a problem. "Fin" appears to have been
at one time a not uncommon name, whatever its etymology and that of "Fian" may be. At any rate,
there is nothing in history (which speaks of a close intercourse between Scandinavia and the
British Isles, in former times), and nothing in the ethnology of North-Western Europe, to make
us regard as mythical the capture and enthralment of any one of these three "little Fins."
If Fin of the Fians, therefore, was a typical Fian, they were little people.[40]

In regarding the Fians as a race of dwarfs, I do not overlook the fact that they are also spoken
of as "giants." But to assume them to have been of gigantic stature is both totally at variance
with the bulk of the evidence regarding them, and at variance with the fact that the word "giant"
has very frequently been used to denote a savage, or a cave-dweller.[41] No more appropriate
illustration of this can be found than the local tradition that a certain artificially hollowed
rock in the island of Hoy, Orkney, was the abode of "a giant and his wife." Now, this same
"giant" is also remembered as a "dwarf," and the largest cell in his dwelling is only 5 feet
8 inches long. Similarly, there is in Iceland a certain Tröllakyrkia (literally "the dwarfs'
church") which is translated "the giants' church."[42] For these reasons, then, I do not regard
any reference to the Fians as "giants" as indicating that they were of tall stature; although
I see no objection to the assumption that they were savages and cave-dwellers.

Fians, then, are closely connected with the "little people" called "Fairies." The connection
between Fians and Picts is equally well marked.

Regarding them historically, Dr. Skene identifies the Fians with one or other of two historical
races believed to have occupied Ireland before the coming of the Gaels. These two races are
known in Irish story as the Tuatha De and the Cruithné.[43] Now, the Tuatha De are the Fairies
of Ireland.[44] Therefore, according to Dr. Skene, the Fians were either Fairies or Cruithné.
Now, Cruithné is simply a Gaelic name for the Picts. Consequently, the Fians were either Fairies
or Picts--according to Dr. Skene. In one traditional story, already referred to, the Fians
seem to be unhesitatingly regarded as Picts. This story, obtained in Sutherlandshire, tells
how a certain king lived for a year with a banshee, or fairy woman,[45] by whom he had a son.
When this son grew up he went to the country of the Fians,[46] and there he entered into the
service of their king, who was no other than the celebrated Oisin. The Gaelic narrator calls
him "Oisin, Righ na Feinne," that is, "Ossian, King of the Fians"; but the collector of the
story,[47] who had no doubt obtained the translation on the spot, renders Righ na Feinne as
"King of the Picts." No explanation or comment is given, and one is therefore led to infer
that in Sutherlandshire Feinne is without question regarded as a Gaelic name for the Picts.
This identity is, indeed, borne out otherwise. There is a Gaelic saying in Glenlyon, Perthshire,
to the effect that "Fin had twelve castles" in that glen, and the remains of these "castles,"
all said to have been built by him and his Fians, and of which one in particular is styled
"Castle Fin,"[48] are known to the English-speaking people of Scotland as "Picts'" houses.
For they belong to a peculiar class of structures, all radically alike, and all known, in certain
districts, as "Picts' houses." The term "Picts' house" is unknown in the Hebrides, says one
writer. "In the Hebrides tradition is entirely silent concerning the Picts ... there the Fenian
heroes are the builders of the duns."[49] Yet the self-same class of building is elsewhere
assigned to the Picts. To these structures I shall presently refer more particularly; but it
is enough to note in passing that, just as Oisin, King of the Fians, is translated into Ossian,
King of the Picts, so the dwellings ascribed to the Fians in one locality, are in another said
to have been made and inhabited by the Picts.

Fians, then, are associated or identified with Fairies, and also with Picts. To complete my
equilateral triangle, the Picts ought also to be regarded as Fairies, or as akin to them.

This undoubtedly is a popular belief. The earliest alleged reference of this kind is placed
by one writer in the middle of the fifteenth century, before the Orkney Islands had passed
from the crown of Denmark to the crown of Scotland. A manuscript of the then Bishop of Orkney,
dated Kirkwall 1443, states that when Harald Haarfagr conquered the Orkneys in the ninth century,
the inhabitants were the two "nations" of the Papæ and the Peti, both of whom were exterminated.
By the former name is understood the Irish missionaries: the Peti were certainly the Picts,
or Pehts.[50] Now, of these Picts of Orkney it is said, that they "were only a little exceeding
pigmies in stature, and worked wonderfully in the construction of their cities, evening and
morning, but in mid-day, being quite destitute of strength, they hid themselves through fear
in little houses under ground."[51]

The exact date of this statement is at present doubtful, but it is quite in accordance with
the widespread ideas held throughout Scotland and Northumberland with regard to the Picts:
that they were great as builders, but were of very low stature, and closely akin to Fairies.[52]
Moreover, they are famous for doing their work during the night. Whatever be the explanation
of the above curious statement that at mid-day they lost their strength and withdrew to their
underground houses, it is at any rate interesting to compare with it the remark made by the
traveller Pennant as he was passing along Glenorchy in 1772. This is the entry in his journal:--"See
frequently on the road-sides small verdant hillocks, styled by the common people shi an (sithean),
or the Fairy-haunt, because here, say they, the fairies, who love not the glare of day, make
their retreat after the celebration of their nocturnal revels."[53] Now, as the "Picts' houses"
are, to outward appearance, "small verdant hillocks," the parallel is very exact. With these
two references compare also the mention, in a quaint old gazetteer printed at Cambridge in
1693,[54] of the tribe of the "Germara," defined as "a people of the Celtæ, who in the day-time
cannot see." Although the author usually gives the sources of his information, in this instance
he gives none. But the statement agrees perfectly with the belief found everywhere throughout
Northern Europe that "the dwarfs could not bear daylight, and during the day hid in their holes."[55]
It really seems impossible to avoid the inference that all this was perfectly true. When Leif
went down into the underground house in Ireland, he could not see at first, though at length
he saw in the obscurity the glimmer of his opponent's sword. Consequently, the denizens and
builders of these subterranean retreats must either have had something very like "cat's eyes,"
or else they must in general have had numerous lamps burning. This will be understood by an
examination of one or two of the accompanying diagrams. It seems to me beyond question that
a people living this underground life must have differed very distinctly from ourselves in
the matter of vision; and to them the brightness of noonday must have been blinding. This physical
fact--if it be a fact--would explain much that is otherwise strange and incredible in the traditions
relating to the Picts--or Pechts, as they were formerly called in Scotland. However, it is
sufficient for my present purpose to note that this peculiarity associates, and indeed identifies,
the Picts with the dwarfs or fairies of tradition.

Having thus shown that Fians, Fairies, and Picts are so closely associated as to be, in some
aspects, almost indistinguishable from one another, I shall now refer to the structures which
are popularly believed to have been their dwellings. Some of these are wholly underground,
others partly so, and others quite above ground. In many other ways, also, they vary. But all
of them are unquestionably links in one special style of structure; of which the most marked
feature, or at any rate that which is common to all, is the use of what is called the "cyclopean"
arch. This is formed by the overlapping of the stones in the wall until they almost meet at
the dome or apex of the building, when a heavy "keystone" completes this rude arch. The principle
of the arch proper was obviously quite unknown to the originators of such structures.

Of the various Hebridean specimens of these buildings, very interesting and complete descriptions
have been given by the late Captain Thomas, R.N.,[56] and Sir Arthur Mitchell,[57] who visited
some of them together in 1866. Referring to the most modern examples of this kind of structure,
the latter writer says:--"They are commonly spoken of as beehive houses, but their Gaelic name
is bo'h or bothan. They are now only used as temporary residences or shealings by those who
herd the cattle at their summer pasturage; but at a time not very remote they are believed
to have been the permanent dwellings of the people." And he thus describes his first sight
of the beehive houses:--

     "I do not think I ever came upon a scene which more surprised me,
     and I scarcely know where or how to begin my description of it.

     "By the side of a burn which flowed through a little grassy glen
     ... we saw two small round hive-like hillocks, not much higher than
     a man, joined together, and covered with grass and weeds. Out of
     the top of one of them a column of smoke slowly rose, and at its
     base there was a hole about three feet high and two feet wide,
     which seemed to lead into the interior of the hillock--its
     hollowness, and the possibility of its having a human creature
     within it being thus suggested. There was no one, however, actually
     within the bo'h, the three girls, when we came in sight, being
     seated on a knoll by the burn-side, but it was really in the inside
     of these two green hillocks that they slept, and cooked their food,
     and carried on their work, and--dwelt, in short."[58]

These two "green hillocks," and other structures of the same nature, are shown in the accompanying
diagrams[59] (Plates I.-XVI.), which explain their formation better than any written description.
It is enough here to state that they are built of rough stone, without any mortar. "Though
the stone walls are very thick," says my authority (p. 62), "they are covered on the outside
with turf, which soon becomes grassy like the land round about, and thus secures perfect wind
and water tightness." Sometimes they occur in groups, as those shown in Plate III.; of which
scene Captain Thomas justly remarks that "at first sight it may be taken for a picture of a
Hottentot village rather than a hamlet in the British Isles."[60] Here there is little or no
grassy covering outside, however; and consequently none of the hillock-like effect. But this
is very well shown in Plates VI. and VIII. Of the "agglomeration of beehives" pictured in the
latter, Sir Arthur Mitchell observes:--"It has several entrances, and would accommodate many
families, who might be spoken of as living in one mound, rather than under one roof" (op. cit.
pp. 64-5). Of another such dwelling, now ruined, he says that it could have accommodated "from
forty to fifty people."

This last, however (Plates XI. and XII.), represents another variety of earth-house, the chambered
mound or beehive, with an underground gallery leading to it. Of this kind two examples are
here shown. And in Plates I. and XIII. will be seen specimens of wholly subterranean structures.
It is difficult, and indeed hardly necessary, to distinguish between one variety and another
of what is practically the same kind of building; but to this last class the term "earth-house"
is most frequently accorded in Scotland. In the broader dialect it is "yird-house" or "eirde-house,"
which at once recalls the form "jord-hus" in the saga which tells of Leif's adventure underground
in Ireland. The term weem is also applied to these places in Scotland. This is merely a quickened
pronunciation of the Gaelic uam (or uamh), a cave; and it reminds one that, both in Gaelic
and in English, the word "cave" is by no means restricted to a natural cavity. Indeed, one
of the two artificial structures under consideration is known as Uamh Sgalabhad, "the cave
of Sgalabhad." Another old Gaelic name for those underground galleries is "tung or tunga";[61]
while another name, by which they are known in Lewis is tigh fo thalaimh,[62] or "house beneath
the ground."

"Martin, in his description of the Western Islands, printed in 1703, when their use would appear
to have been still remembered, speaks of them [these underground structures] as 'little stone-houses,
built under ground, called earth-houses, which served to hide a few people and their goods
in time of war.'"[63] Dean Monro writes, "There is sundry coves and holes in the earth, coverit
with hedder above, quhilk fosters many rebellis in the country of the North head of Ywst" [North
Uist].[64] "From O'Flaherty's description of West Connaught, written in 1684, it appears,"
observes Captain Thomas,[65] but referring more strictly to the beehive-house, "that this style
of dwelling had already become archaic." For, although that writer mentions certain "cloghans"
as being still inhabited, holding forty men in some cases, yet he says they were "so ancient
that nobody knows how long ago any of them were made." Of the underground galleries another
writer says: "It has been doubted if these houses were ever really used as places of abode....
But as to this there can be no real doubt. The substances found in many of them have been the
accumulated débris of food used by man.... Ornaments of bronze have been found in a few of
them, and beads of streaked glass. In some cases the articles found would indicate that the
occupation of these houses had come down to comparatively recent times."[66]

In conclusion, these remarks of Captain Thomas, who made so thorough a study of the subject,
may be quoted:--

     "The Pict's house on the Holm of Papay [Orkney] would have held,
     besides the chiefs at each end, all the families in [the island of]
     Papay Westray when it was built. Maes howe[67] was for three
     families--grandees, no doubt; but the numbers it was intended to
     hold in the beds may be learned by comparing them with the
     Amazon's House, St. Kilda."[68]

     "I consider the relation between the boths [beehive houses] and
     the Picts' houses of the Orkneys (and elsewhere) to be evident--the
     same method of forming the arch, the low and narrow doors and
     passages, the enormous thickness of the walls, when compared with
     the interior accommodation--exist in both. When a both is covered
     with green turf it becomes a chambered tumulus, and when buried by
     drifting sand it is a subterranean Pict's house.... I regard the
     comparatively large Picts' houses of the Orkneys as the pastoral
     residence of the Pictish lord, fitted to contain his numerous
     family and dependents. Such an one exists on the Holm of Papa
     Westray, which, according to the Highland method of stowage, would
     certainly contain a whole clan. When writing the description of it,
     I had not made acquaintance with a people who would close the door
     to keep in the smoke, or that nested in holes in a wall like
     sand-martins....

     "But the both of the Long Island is only the lodging of the
     common man or 'Tuathanach,' and is consequently of small
     dimensions, and not remarkable for comfort. If the modern Highland
     proprietor or large farmer should ever be induced to lead a
     pastoral life, and adopt a Pictish architecture in his residence,
     we might again see a tumulus of twenty feet in height, with its
     long low passage leading into a large hall with beehive cells on
     both sides."[69]

But the point of all this is that these dwellings, whether above ground or below, are known
as Picts' Houses, Fairy Halls, Elf Hillocks, "the hidden places of Fians and Fairies." Thus,
the three titles which I have shown to be associated in other ways are all given to the alleged
builders and occupiers of those very archaic and peculiar structures.

It is true that, in their most modern form, some of those dwellings are still inhabited for
months at a time. And their inhabitants are neither Fians, Fairies nor Picts. But it is among
those people that stories of Fians and Fairies are most rife, and many claim an actual descent
from them. And although they are certainly not pigmies, yet they live in a district in which
the small type of this heterogeneous nation of ours is still quite discernible; and that part
of the island of Lewis (Uig), which has longest retained those places as dwellings, is inhabited
by a caste whom other Hebrideans describe as small, and regard as different from themselves.[70]
Dr. Beddoe states that the tallest people in the United Kingdom are to be found in a certain
village in Galloway, where a six-foot man is perfectly common, and many are above that height.
It is quite certain that such men could not "nest like sand-martins" in the holes in the wall
described by Captain Thomas. And, in proportion as such Galloway men are to the modern Hebridean
mound-dwellers, so are these to the much more archaic race with whom the oldest structures
are associated. For a study of the dimensions of these will show that they could not have been
conceived, and would not have been built or inhabited by any but a race of actual dwarfs; as
tradition says they were.

[Footnote 18: "La légende des Pygmées et les nains de l'Afrique equatoriale": Rev. Hist. t.
47, I. (Sept.-Oct. 1891), pp. 1-64.]

[Footnote 19: For some of these references see Dr. Hibbert's "Description of the Shetland Islands,"
Edinburgh, 1822, pp. 444-451. See also Mrs. J.E. Saxby's "Folk-Lore from Unst, Shetland" (in
Leisure Hour of 1880); Mr. W.G. Black's "Heligoland", 1888, chap. iv.; and "The Fians," London,
1891, pp. 2-3.]

[Footnote 20: Gwynn the son of Nudd: for whom see Lady C. Guest's "Mabinogion," pp. 223, 263-5,
and 501-2.]

[Footnote 21: "The War of the Gaedhil with the Gaill," edited by J.H. Todd, D.D., London, 1867,
pp. 114-115.]

[Footnote 22: I. cc. 4-6 (this reference and the passage is quoted from Du Chaillu's "Viking
Age," vol. ii. p. 516).]

[Footnote 23: "Fianaibh ag Sithcuiraibh"]

[Footnote 24: "Dan an Fhir Shicair"; Leabhar na Feinne, pp. 94-95.]

[Footnote 25: Folk-Lore Journal, vol. vi. 1888, pp. 173-178.]

[Footnote 26: The Fians, 1891, p. 64.]

[Footnote 27: Ibid. p. 33.]

[Footnote 28: The Fians, p. 172. The Fairy Hill referred to is "a hillock, in which there is
to be seen a small hollow called the armoury" (p. 174).]

[Footnote 29: Ibid. pp. 12-13, 166, &c.]

[Footnote 30: Ibid. pp. 3-4. Glenorchy is said to have teemed with Fenian traditions about
the early part of this century (Proceedings of Soc. of Antiq. of Scotland, vol. vii. pp. 237-240).]

[Footnote 31: See my Testimony of Tradition, London, 1890, pp. 146-8; and Pennant's "Second
Tour in Scotland" (Pinkerton's Voyages, London, 1809, vol. iii. p. 368).]

[Footnote 32: Proceedings of Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, vol. vii. p. 294, note.]

[Footnote 33: See, for example, an article on "Scottish Customs and Folk lore," in The Glasgow
Herald of August 1, 1891.]

[Footnote 34: The Fians, pp. 78-80.]

[Footnote 35: Scottish Celtic Review, 1885, pp. 184-90: The Fians, pp. 175-184.]

[Footnote 36: The Heimskringla: Dr. Rasmus B. Anderson's 2nd ed. (1889) of Mr. Samuel Laing's
translation from Snorre Sturlason: chap. lxxxiii., Of Little Fin.]

[Footnote 37: Leabhar na Feinne, p. 34.

[SUBSEQUENT NOTE.--To be very accurate, one ought to say that, in the pedigree referred to,
Fin's grandfather (Trenmor) is stated to have married a Finland woman.]]

[Footnote 38: Mr. W.G. Black's Heligoland, 1888, chap. iv.]

[Footnote 39: With this Fin of Frisian tradition may be compared Fin, a North-Frisian chief
of the fifth century, mentioned in Beowulf and The Gleeman's Tale, and whose death is recorded
in The Fight at Finnsburk.

[SUBSEQUENT NOTE.--A suitable companion to the dwarf Fin of Frisian tradition is mentioned
in Harald Hardradi's Saga:--"Tuta, a Frisian, was with King Harald; he was sent to him for
show, for he was short and stout, in every respect shaped like a dwarf."--Quoted by Mr. Du
Chaillu at p. 357 of vol. ii. of "The Viking Age."]]

[Footnote 40: In this connection it is worth noting that Sir Walter Scott, in referring to
the aboriginal or servile clans in 1745, whom he describes as "half naked, stinted in growth,
and miserable in aspect," includes among them the McCouls, Fin's alleged descendants, who "were
a sort of Gibeonites, or hereditary servants to the Stewarts of Appin." (Waverley, ch. xliv.)]

[Footnote 41: For example, the late Rev. J.G. Campbell, Tiree, says of "the Great Tuairisgeul"
that he was "a giant of the kind called Samhanaich--that is, one who lived in a cave by the
sea-shore, the strongest and coarsest of any" (Scottish Celtic Review, p. 62). That this term
was one of contempt, given by Gaelic-speaking people to those "giants" (and apparently based
upon their malodorous characteristics), will be seen from Mr. Campbell's further observation
(op. cit. pp. 140-141):--"It is a common expression to say of any strong offensive smell, mharbhadh
e na Samhanaich, it would kill the giants who dwell in caves by the sea. Samk is a strong oppressive
smell." McAlpine defines Samk as a "bad smell arising from a sick person, or a dirty hot place";
and he further gives the definition "a savage" (quoting Mackenzie). The word Samhanach itself
is defined by McAlpine as "a savage," and he cites the Islay saying:--"chuireadh tu cagal air
na samhanaich," "you would frighten the very savages." From these definitions it will be seen
that a word translated "giant" by one is rendered "savage" by another (though neither of these
terms expresses the literal meaning). Mr. J.G. Campbell also practically regards it as signifying
"cave-dweller," or perhaps a certain special caste of cave-dwellers. With this may be compared
McAlpine's "uamh, n.f., a cave, den; n.m., a chief of savages, terrible fellow ... 'cha'n'eil
ann ach uamh dhuine,' 'he is only a savage of a fellow.'" Islay has also another word to denote
a Hebridean savage. This is ciuthach, "pr. kewach, described in the Long Island as naked wild
men living in caves" (J.F. Campbell, Tales, iii. 55, n.). One of these "kewachs" figures in
the story of Diarmaid and Grainne, and one version says that he "came in from the western ocean
in a coracle with two oars (curachan)" (The Fians, p. 54). (His name assumes various shapes--e.g.,
Ciofach Mac a Ghoill, Ciuthach Mac an Doill, Ceudach Mac Righ nan Collach.) These three terms--samhanach,
uamh dhuine, and ciuthach--all seem to indicate one and the same race of people. And these
are probably the people referred to by Pennant when he says, speaking of the civilised races
of the Hebrides in the beginning of the seventeenth century:--"Each chieftain had his armour-bearer,
who preceded his master in time of war, and, by my author's (Timothy Pont's MS., Advocates'
Library, Edinburgh) account in time of peace; for they went armed even to church, in the manner
the North Americans do at present [1772] in the frontier settlement, and for the same reason,
the dread of savages." With regard to the "Dwarfie Stone" of Hoy, the following references
may be given:--"Jo. Ben," 1529, at p. 449 of Barry's "History of the Orkney Islands," 2nd ed.,
London, 1808; and other writers subsequent to 1529. These speak of this stone as the abode
of a "giant." Sir Walter Scott (The Pirate, Note P.) and many others invariably say "a dwarf."

Note also J.F. Campbell (W.H. Tales, p. xcix): "The Highland giants were not so big, but that
their conquerors wore their clothes." Also the dwarf in Ramsay's "Evergreen" who says that
he was engendered "of giants' kind."]

[Footnote 43: Dean of Lismore's Book, p. lxxvi.; Celt. Scot., vol. i. p. 131; vol. iii. chap.
iii.; &c.]

[Footnote 44: Celt. Scot. iii. 106-7.]

[Footnote 45: In this tale, the phonetic spelling ben-ce shows the unusual aspirated form bean-shithe.
She is elsewhere spoken of as the Lady of Innse Uaine, and her son is the hero of the tale
Gille nan Cochla-Craicinn.]

[Footnote 46: According to a clergyman of the seventeenth century, the Hebrides and a part
of the Western Highlands constituted "the country of the Fians," (Testimony of Tradition, p. 45.)]

[Footnote 47: Miss Dempster: "The Folk-Lore of Sutherlandshire," Folk-Lore Journal, vol. vi.
1888, p. 174.]

[Footnote 48: Proc. of the Soc. of Antiq. of Scot., vol. vii. p. 294.]

[Footnote 49: Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot., vol. vii. pp. 165 and 192.]

[Footnote 50: "They are plainly no other than the Peihts, Picts, or Piks ... the Scandinavian
writers generally call the Piks Peti, or Pets: one of them uses the term Petia, instead of
Pictland (Saxo-Gram.); and, besides, the frith that divides Orkney from Caithness is usually
denominated Petland Fiord in the Icelandic Sagas or histories." (Barry's Orkney, p. 115.)]

[Footnote 51: Proc. of the Soc. of Antiq. of Scot., vol. iii. p. 141: also vol. vii. p. 191.
This quotation is made by the late Captain Thomas, R.N., a sound archæologist; but I have to
add that in the document of 1443, as given in Barry's Orkney (2nd ed., London, 1808, pp. 401-419),
while I find the statement as to the two native races, I find nothing about the stature or
habits of the Picts. Captain Thomas twice quotes his statement, and as at one place he refers,
not to the Bishop of 1443, but (vol. iii. p. 141) to "the Earl of Orkney's chaplain, writing
about 1460," it is possible he had two manuscripts of the fifteenth century in view.

[SUPPLEMENTARY NOTE.--The Bishop's words are as follows:--

"Istas insulas primitus Peti et Pape inhabitabant. Horum alteri scilicet Peti parvo superantes
pigmeos statura in structuris urbium vespere et mane mira operantes, meredie vero cunctis viribus
prorsus destituti in subterraneis domunculis pre timore latuerunt."--From his treatise De Orcadibus
Insulis, reprinted in the "Bannatyne Miscellany," 1855, p. 33.]]

[Footnote 52: Testimony of Tradition, pp. 58-60, 65, 67-74, 79-80.]

[Footnote 53: Pennant's Second Tour in Scotland; Pinkerton's Voyages, London, 1809, p. 368.]

[Footnote 54: Linguæ Romanæ, Dictionarium, Luculentum Novum.]

[Footnote 55: Du Chaillu: Land of the Midnight Sun, vol. ii. pp. 421-2. This also is one of
the articles of belief in Shetland, with regard to the trows, as the trolls are there called.]

[Footnote 56: Proc. of Soc. of Antiq. of Scot. (First Series), vol. iii. pp. 127-144; vol.
vii. pp. 153-195.]

[Footnote 57: The Past in the Present, Edinburgh, 1880, pp. 58-72.]

[Footnote 58: The Past in the Present, p. 59.]

[Footnote 59: Reproduced by permission of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.]

[Footnote 60: Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot., vol. iii. p. 137.]

[Footnote 61: Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot., vol. vii. p. 168 n. This appears to me to be a phonetic
spelling of the diongna mentioned in the passage relating to the plunderings of the Danes in
the ninth century.]

[Footnote 62: Ibid. p. 171. On the same page, the form Ugh talamkant is given.]

[Footnote 63: Chambers's Encyclopædia, new ed., s.v. Earth-house.]

[Footnote 64: Quoted in Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot., vii. 172. The reference is "Ag. Rep. Heb.
p. 782."]

[Footnote 65: Op. cit. vol. iii. p. 140.]

[Footnote 66: John Stuart, LL.D., Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot., viii. pp. 23 et seq.]

[Footnote 67: Plates XIV.-XVI. Compare also Plates XVII.-XIX.]

[Footnote 68: Op. cit., vii. 191.]

[Footnote 69: Op. cit., iii. 133.]

[Footnote 70: Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, vol. iii. (First Series),
p. 129. The district of Barvas is specially referred to by Captain Thomas.]

APPENDIX.

Most of the illustrations here given are reproductions of some of the plates accompanying Captain
Thomas's papers in the Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. In explanation
of their details the following extracts may be made.

PLATE I. (Frontispiece).--Uamh Sgalabhad, South Uist.

(From Plate XXXV. of Vol. VII. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, First
Series.)

Captain Thomas thus describes his descent into and exploration of this earth-house:--"An irregular
hole was pointed out by the little lassie before alluded to, and some of my party quickly disappeared
below ground. As they did not immediately return, I thought it was time to follow, and squeezing
through the ruinated entrance (a), I entered the usual kind of gallery, which descended into
the ground at a sharp angle. At the bottom, on the right-hand side, was the usual guard-cell
(b); the sides of dry-stone masonry, but the end was the face of a rock in situ. Proceeding
on, the roof rose and the gallery widened to what was the main chamber (c), which was 7 feet
high under the apex of the dome, and 4 feet broad. Upon the west side of this chamber, and
about 2 feet from the ground, is a recess, about 2 feet square and 4 feet long. At the further
end, and in the same right line, the gallery (d) became low (2½ feet) and narrow (2 feet).
Again the roof rose, and the gallery widened till stopt, in face, by a large transported rock
(f); to the right of the rock a rectangular chamber (e), 2 feet broad, extended 4 feet, and
ended against rock in situ. Round, and beyond the rock (f), the wall of the left side of the
gallery was built, but the passage was so narrow (g) that I contented myself by looking through
it. This incomprehensible narrowness is a feature in the buildings of this period. Some of
Captain Otter's officers pushed through into the small chamber (h); beyond this the gallery
was ruinated and impassable; the total length explored was 45 feet."[71]

[Footnote 71: Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot., vol. vii. (First Series), pp. 167-8.]

PLATE II.--Bee-Hive Houses at Uig, Lewis.

(From Plate XXXI. of Vol. VII. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, First
Series.)

Fig. 8. Captain Thomas selects this as "the most modern, and at the same time the last, in
all probability, that will be constructed in this manner"--viz., "roofed by the horizontal
or cyclopean arch, i.e., by a system of overlapping stones." "The woman who was living in it
[about 1869] told us it was built for his shieling by Dr. Macaulay's grandfather, who was tacksman
[leaseholder] of Linshader ... and I conclude that it was made about ninety years back."[72]

Fig. 9. Sir Arthur Mitchell says of this compound "bee-hive" house:--"The greatest height of
the living room--in its centre, that is--was scarcely 6 feet. In no part of the dairy was it
possible to stand erect. The door of communication between the two rooms was so small that
we could get through it only by creeping. The great thickness of the walls, 6 to 8 feet, gave
this door, or passage of communication, the look of a tunnel, and made the creeping through
it very real. The creeping was only a little less real in getting through the equally tunnel-like,
though somewhat wider and loftier passage, which led from the open air into the first or dwelling
room."[73]

[Footnote 72: Op. cit., p. 161.]

[Footnote 73: The Past in the Present, p. 60.]

PLATE III.--Bee-Hive Houses at Uig, inhabited in 1859.

(From Plate XII. of Vol. III. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, First
Series.)

See p. 47, ante.

PLATE IV.--Bee-Hive Houses at Meabhag, Forest of Harris.

(From Plate X. of Vol. III. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, First
Series.)

At the date of Captain Thomas's visit (1861) a man was still living who had been born in one
or other of these dwellings.

PLATE V.--Ground Plan of Bee-Hive House, Island of Benbecula.

(From Plate XXXII. of Vol. VII. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, First
Series.)

PLATE VI.--Chambered Mound (Both Stacseal), near Stornoway, Lewis. (op. cit., vol. iii., p.
130 n.). This suggests the following story, told by Mr. J.F. Campbell (West Highland Tales,
vol. ii., pp. 39-40):

     "There was a woman in Baile Thangusdail, and she was out seeking a
     couple of calves; and the night and lateness caught her, and there
     came rain and tempest, and she was seeking shelter. She went to a
     knoll with the couple of calves, and she was striking the
     tether-peg into it. The knoll opened. She heard a gleegashing
     (gliogadaich) as if a pot-hook were clashing beside a pot. She
     took wonder, and she stopped striking the tether-peg. A woman put
     out her head and all above her middle, and she said, 'What business
     hast thou to be troubling this tulman [mound] in which I make my
     dwelling?' 'I am taking care of this couple of calves, and I am but
     weak. Where shall I go with them?' 'Thou shalt go with them to that
     breast down yonder. Thou wilt see a tuft of grass. If thy couple of
     calves eat that tuft of grass, thou wilt not be a day without a
     milk cow as long as thou art alive, because thou hast taken my
     counsel.'

     "As she said, she never was without a milk cow after that, and she
     was alive fourscore and fifteen years after the night that was
     there."

PLATES VII. AND VIII.--"Agglomeration of Bee-Hives" at Uig, Lewis.

(From Plates XV. and XVI. of Vol. III. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland,
First Series.)

     "By far the most singular of all these structures, and probably
     unique in the Long Island, is at Gearraidh na h-Airde Moire,
     on the shore of Loch Resort. I cannot describe it better than by
     bidding you suppose twelve individual bee-hive huts all built
     touching each other, with doors and passages from one to the other.
     The diameter of this gigantic booth is 46 feet, and [it] is nearly
     circular in plan. The height of the doors and passages about 2½
     feet; and under the smokehole (farlos), in two of the chambers,
     the height was 6½ feet.... I am informed that, so late as 1823,
     this both was inhabited by four families." (Captain Thomas,
     Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot., vol. iii., p. 139.)

PLATE IX.--Compound "Both" situated near the above.

(From Plate XIV. of Vol. III. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, First
Series.)

PLATE X.--"Both" and Underground Gallery at Meall na h-Uamh, Huishnish, South Uist.

(From Plate XXXIII. of Vol. VII. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland,
First Series.)

     "I have next to notice," says Captain Thomas (op. cit., p. 164),
     "that form of bo'h, Pict's house, or clochan, whichever name may be
     adopted by archæologists, to which a hypogeum or subterranean
     gallery is attached.... [The present example] is in South Uist,
     about half a mile inland from Moll a Deas (South Beach); and the
     Moll is about one mile and a half to the south of Husinish
     (Husness, i.e., Houseness). The site of the bo'h is called Meall
     na [h-] Uamh, or Cave Lump [more correctly, the Mound of the Cave,
     or 'Weem.'] It consists of a partly excavated oval dwelling chamber
     (a), 7 feet by 14 feet on the floor; the dome roof has fallen in;
     there are two cuiltean, or niches in the wall. A low curved
     subterranean passage (b), about 2½ feet square and 20 feet in
     length, leads into an elongated bee-hive chamber (c), 13 feet by
     5 feet, and 6¾ feet high; from thence an entrance (d), 2 feet by
     2 feet, admits to a small circular chamber or cell (e), 5 feet in
     diameter and 5 feet high. The main passage inclines downwards, so
     that the floor of the second chamber (c) is nearly 3 feet lower
     than that of the first (a); and that of the inner one (e) a
     foot below the second (c)."

.... It is but 18 inches high and 2 feet broad, so that a very stout or large man could not
get in." (Op. cit., pp. 166, 167.)]

PLATES XI. AND XII.--"Both" and Underground Gallery at
Huishnish, South Uist. The child was only acquainted with
     the two here drawn [of which the other--viz., Uamh Sgalabhad, is
     here reproduced as Plate I., frontispiece]; but there may be many
     more waiting the researches of the zealous antiquary." (Captain
     Thomas, op. cit., p. 165.)

PLATE XIII.--Underground Gallery at Paible, Taransay, Harris.

(From Plate XXIX. of Vol. VII. of Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, First
Series.)

Describing this earth-house, Captain Thomas says:--"The drawing is from a photograph of the
entrance, which is 2 feet 10 inches high and 1½ foot broad. The sea flows up to it at high
tides. On crawling in, there is seen the usual guard-cell (b), close beside the entrance, but
so small that we may be sure the sentinel, if there was one, must have been a light weight;
in fact, we are almost driven to the conclusion that there were no Bantings in those days.
This guard-cell is but 2 feet 5 inches high, and 3 feet in width. The gallery then turns at
a right angle to the left hand. We excavated it for 22 feet.... When digging, we came upon
two broken stone dishes (corn-crushers?) now in the Museum [Society of Antiquaries of Scotland];
and above the gallery were most of the bones of a small ox, placed orderly together.... Bones
of the seal were common, and a few of the eagle." (Op. cit., p. 169.)

PLATES XIV., XV., AND XVI.--Maes-How, Orkney.

The structure last named is described by Captain Thomas and Mr. T.S. Muir in vol. iii. of the
Proceedings (pp. 225-228), where it is stated:--"The Amazon's House is of the same class with
our earliest stone buildings--belonging to the era of cromlechs, stone-circles, Picts' castles,
&c.; but while in other parts of Britain the style and type have vanished for a thousand years,
in the Outer Hebrides we find them (in the Bothan [i.e., 'boths' or 'bee-hive houses'] of Uig)
continued to the present day." The following additional remarks by Captain Thomas are also
of interest in this connection:--"It appears that besides the Tigh na Bhanna ghaisgach (Ty-na-Van-a-ghas-gec),
or Amazon's House--and of whom all tradition, except her name, has gone--there are the remains
of other submerged dwellings and hypogea. Miss Euphemia MacCrimmon, the oldest inhabitant of
that far-off island, tells that a certain Donald Macdonald and John Macqueen, on passing a
hillock, heard churning going on within. And about thirty years ago, when digging into the
hillock to make the foundations of a new house, they discovered what seemed to be the fairies'
residence, built of stones inside, and holes in the wall, or croops, as they call them, as
in Airidh na Bhannaghaisgach."[74]

It will be noticed that the "beds" in Maes-How are on a higher level than the floor of the
main chamber. "In the winter houses," observes Captain Thomas,[75] "the floor of the bed-place
was raised 3 or 4 feet above the ground."

The original use of Maes-How is a matter of opinion, and some have assumed it to belong to
the class of sepulchral mounds, although there is no evidence in support of this belief. For
many reasons, the opinions of Captain Thomas are endorsed by the present writer. It may be
added that, prior to 1861, when the mound was opened, local tradition had declared that it
was the residence of a "hog-boy," or mound-dweller.

[Footnote 74: Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot. (First Series), vol. vii. p. 172.]

[Footnote 75: Op. cit., p. 164.]

PLATES XVII., XVIII., AND XIX.--Brugh of the Boyne, New Grange, County Meath.

The diagrams here shown are from drawings by Mr. W.F. Wakeman, the veteran Irish archæologist.[76]
With reference to the spiral carvings at the doorway of the Brugh, it may be mentioned that
"the same kind of ornament appears on a stone found amidst a heap which had once been a 'Pict's-house'
in the island of Eday, Orkney;"[77] and that in Orkney, also, there has been found, in an underground
house, a large stone "saucer," or "tray," resembling the two shown in the ground plan of the
Brugh. (There appears to be no settled opinion as to the uses of those "saucers.")

In connection with the identification of this mound with the "Brugh of the Boyne" of ancient
Irish history, the following remarks may be quoted. The Rev. Father O'Laverty, in the Journal
of the Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland (December, 1892, p. 430) thus observes:--

     "In his very valuable work, The Boyne and Blackwater, Sir William
     Wilde appears to me to have used convincing arguments to prove that
     Brugh-na-Boinne ... was ... on the left bank of the Boyne,
     convenient to the ford of Ros-na-righ (Rossnaree) at Knowth,
     Dowth, and Newgrange. To Sir William's arguments one point only was
     wanting: the old name had disappeared.... It is now more than
     thirty years since I went to Newgrange for the special purpose of
     investigating that matter. I explained to Mr. Maguire, then of
     Newgrange, and to his son, that Brugh-na-Boinne signified 'the
     town, or dwelling-place, on the Boyne,' that the word Brugh would
     assume the modern form Bro, as in Brughshane (pronounced
     Broshane), and many other townland names, and that na-Boinne, 'of
     the Boyne,' would probably cease to be used as unnecessary at the
     site. I need not say that I was greatly pleased when they informed
     me that the field in which is the mound of Newgrange is called the
     Bro-Park, while in the immediate vicinity are the Bro-Farm, the
     Bro-Mill, and the Bro-Cottage." [And also, they might have
     added, the mansion of Broe House.]

Any one, therefore, who duly considers the matter, in relation to the statements of both of
these writers, will see that the mound at New Grange is the Brugh-na-Boinne of Irish history
and tradition. And this name, says Father O'Laverty, "signified 'the town, or dwelling-place,
on the Boyne.'" What, then, are the earliest associations with this "town or dwelling-place?"

It is said[78] to have been built by a celebrated "king and oracle" of the people known as
the Tuatha Dé, Dea, or De Danann, and to have been the residence of himself and others of his
race. This chief (Eochaid Ollathair) is usually referred to as "the Dagda," or "the Daghda
Mòr"; and of his nation it is asserted that, after having invaded Ireland and conquered its
native "Fir-Bolgs," they were themselves conquered in turn by a later race of immigrants, the
Gaels. This "Brugh," therefore, is said to have been the residence of the Dagda, and, after
him, of Angus, one of his sons. Consequently, it is very frequently styled "the Brugh of Angus,
son of the Dagda," an appellation which assumes various forms.[79] Latterly, it seems to have
been most generally known as "the Brugh" (par excellence), or, more simply still, as "Brugh."
In the Book of Leinster it is specified as one of "Ireland's three undeniable eminences [dindgna]"[80];
while "an ancient poem by Mac Nia, son of Oenna (in the Book of Ballymote, fol. 190 b.)," styles
it "a king's mansion" and a "sídh." The same MS. (32 a b) gives the variant Sídh an Bhrogha,
rendered by Dr. Standish O'Grady "the fairy fort of the Brugh upon the Boyne."[81] This word
"sídh," which was applied--probably in the first place--to hollow mounds such as this, but
which was also applied to the dwellers in them, gave the Tuatha De Danann their most popular
name. Because it was on account of their residence in "the green mounds, known by the name
of Sídh," that they were called "the Fir Sídhe [i.e., men of the sídhs], or Fairies, of Ireland."[82]
The one word, indeed (sídh), became indifferently applied to the dwellings and the dwellers.
Whichever was the earliest meaning of that word, there is little dubiety as to the etymology
of Siabhra. In one copy of the Leabhar na h-Uidhre,[83] it is stated that the Tuatha De Danann
"were called Siabhras." O'Reilly defines siabhra as "a fairy," and siabhrach as "fairy-like";
while "a fairy mansion" is siabhrugh. With Connellan, again, siabhrog is "a fairy." It seems
quite evident that these are all corruptions of sídh-bhrugh (otherwise Sídh an Bhrogha, as
above), and that Siabhra, as applied to the dwellers, was simply a transference from the name
denoting their dwellings.

Numerous as are the references to this mound as a "dwelling-place," its name figures prominently
in the list of the ancient cemeteries of Ireland. Relec in Broga, "the Cemetery of the Brugh,"
is referred to as one of "the three cemeteries of Idolaters," in an Irish manuscript of the
twelfth century (or earlier), the Leabhar na h-Uidhre cited above. Of the two others, one is
"the Cemetery of Cruachan"; and, by glancing at it, in the first place, we shall obtain a good
idea of the Cemetery of the Brugh. "We find that the monuments within the cemetery at Rathcroghan,"[84]
says Mr. Petrie, "are small circular mounds, which, when examined, are found to cover rude,
sepulchral chambers formed of stone, without cement of any kind, and containing unburned bones."[85]
And the twelfth-century scribe whom Mr. Petrie largely quotes, says that there were fifty such
mounds (cnoc) in the cemetery at Cruachan. This mediæval scholar has copied a poem on the subject,
"ascribed to Dorban, a poet of West Connaught," wherein it is said that it is not in the power
of poets or of sages to reckon the number of heroes under the Cruachan mounds, and that there
is not a hillock (cnoc) in that cemetery "which is not the grave of a king or royal prince,
or of a woman, or warlike poet." In another verse, he says that each of the fifty mounds had
a warrior under it; and, altogether, it appears that, although their number could doubtless
be "reckoned," yet the burial mounds of Cruachan, in or about the twelfth century, much exceeded
fifty in number. "Fifty" is simply used by the poet and his commentator to show that, like
the two other cemeteries of the triad (each of which is also said to have had fifty) the Cemetery
of Cruachan contained about a third of the pagan notables of Ireland.

From this we see that, about the twelfth century, the Cemetery of the Brugh contained at least
fifty sepulchral mounds such as those described by Mr. Petrie at Cruachan. Mr. Petrie further
quotes two passages from the Dinnsenchus, which specify in the following terms some of the
most famous of those "monuments" at the Brugh:--

     "The Grave [or Stone Cairn, Leacht] of the Dagda; the Grave of
     Aedh Luirgnech, son of the Dagda; the Graves of Cirr and Cuirrell,
     wives of the Dagda--'these are two hillocks [da cnoc]'; the Grave
     of Esclam, the Dagda's Brehon, 'which is called Fert-Patric at
     this day'; the Cashel [or Stone Enclosure] of Angus, son of
     Crunmael; the Cave [Derc] of Buailcc Bec; the Stone Cairn
     [Leacht] of Cellach, son of Maelcobha; the Stone Cairn [Leacht]
     of the steed of Cinaedh, son of Irgalach; the Prison [Carcar] of
     Liath-Macha; the 'Glen' of the Mata; the Pillar Stone of Buidi, the
     son of Muiredh, where his head is interred; the Stone of Benn; the
     Grave of Boinn, the wife of Nechtan; the 'Bed' of the daughter of
     Forann; the Barc of Crimthann Nianar, in which he was interred;
     the Grave of Fedelmidh, the Lawgiver; the Cumot of Cairbre
     Lifeachair; the Fulacht of Fiachna Sraiphtine."

These, of course, are only some of the most famous of the sepulchral monuments which existed
in the Cemetery of the Brugh eight or nine centuries ago. Since that time, most of them have
disappeared, their stones having been presumably built into castles, mansions, cottages and
walls, while the bones of the queens and heroes have fertilised the soil of the neighbouring
farms. But there still remain a few "standing-stones" and "moats" in the vicinity of the Brugh,
all of which may be included in the above list.

I have cited that list for the reason that modern antiquaries, or many of them, have assumed
that Síd in Broga and Relec in Broga are synonymous terms, and that when a king or hero is
recorded to have been buried "at Brugh," that means that he was buried in the Brugh itself.
In other words, that a place which was known as Fert-Patrick in or about the twelfth century,
as also the "cashel" and the many hillocks, graves, and cairns mentioned in the list--not to
speak of innumerable others--were all situated in the chamber which is shown in Plate XIX.
It does not require a moment's reflection to convince one that this is an erroneous assumption.
Nor is it warranted by the "History of the Cemeteries" itself, which always speaks of the burials
having been "at Brugh."[86]

One other statement, however, must be referred to. In another verse of Dorban's poem, mentioned
above, it is said that "the host of Meath" are buried "ar lár in Broga tuathaig." This is rendered
by Petrie, "in the middle of the lordly Brugh." The translation is no doubt good; and it is
open to any one to deduce therefrom that the chamber shown in the plan contained at one time
the skeletons of the host of Meath. In that case, the "host" must have been very limited in
number; and anyone who has crawled along the sixty-foot passage into the Brugh, and who adopts
this view, must wonder a little as to how the corpses were conveyed along that passage, and
as to the reasons which must have induced some people (prior to 1699, when the chamber was
almost, if not altogether, void of such relics)[87] to drag all those bones out again, at much
personal inconvenience. But "ar lár in Broga" may also mean "in the [burying-] ground of the
Brugh"; and the descriptions quoted above from the Dinnsenchus show quite clearly that the
ground in which "the host of Meath" were buried embraced a considerable tract of land, dotted
over with mounds and monuments, differing only in degree from those of a modern cemetery.[88]

The twelfth-century commentator of Dorban's poem states:

     "The nobles of the Tuatha De Danann (with the exception of seven of
     them who were interred at Talten [which was the third 'Cemetery of
     the Idolaters']) were buried at Brugh, i.e., Lugh, and Oe, son of
     Ollamh, and Ogma, and Carpre, son of Etan, and Etan (the poetess)
     herself, and the Dagda and his three sons (i.e., Aedh, and
     Oengus, and Cermait), and a great many others besides of the
     Tuatha De Dananns, and Firbolgs and others."[89]

But, afterwards, "the race of Heremon, i.e., the kings of Tara," who used to bury at Cruachan
(because that was the chief seat in their special principality of Connaught) came to bury at Brugh.

This Nar is a very interesting personage in the present connection. Because, being one of the
Tuatha Dea, she was a siabhra, or woman of the sídhs; otherwise, a bean-síde (modernised into
"banshee"). This is plainly stated in two other Irish manuscripts, with an additional explanation
which is very apposite. It is said that Crimthann was called Nar's Champion "because his wife
Nar thuathchaech out of the sídhes, or of the Pict-folk [a sídaib no do Chruithentuaith], she
it was that took him off on an adventure." A companion statement is that made in another manuscript
to the effect that "Nar thuathchaech, the daughter of Lotan of the Pict-folk [Nár thuathchaech
ingen Lotain do Chruithentuaith], was the mother of Feradach finnfhechtnach," or "the brightly
prosperous"--a king of Ireland.[92]

Incidentally, therefore, in considering the Brugh of the Boyne and the people most associated
with it, we find very distinct confirmation of the main part of the contention in the foregoing
treatise. From these extracts it is evident that those early writers regarded siabhra, fear-sídh,
bean-sídh, and daoine-sídh (words which may also be interpreted "mound-dweller") as ordinary
folk-names for the Picts; just in the same way as any historian of the frontier wars in North
America would understand by "Red-skin" and "Greaser" the more classic "Indian" and "Mexican."

[Footnote 76: Earlier illustrations, from drawings made in 1724 by Mr. Samuel Molyneux, a Dublin
student, may be seen in Part II. of "A Natural History of Ireland," Dublin, 1726. Other eighteenth-century
representations of the same place occur in a volume of old plates, belonging to the Society
of Antiquaries (London). This volume is endorsed "Celtic Remains; I," and its contents form
part of (says the fly-leaf) "a collection of plates from the Archæologia collected by Mr. Akerman
when the Society's Stock was sold off and arranged more or less in Classes." The views of the
Brugh will be found at pp. 239, 253, and 254 (Plates XIX.-XXII.). Colonel Forbes Leslie has
two excellent plates, from drawings of his own, in his Early Races of Scotland (Edin. 1866),
vol. ii.; where he also refers to Wilde's Boyne and Blackwater and Wakeman's Irish Antiquities.
A recent work, illustrating the same subject, but which I have not yet had an opportunity of
seeing, is Mr. George Coffey's "Tumuli and Inscribed Stones at New Grange, Dowth, and Knowth,"
Dublin, 1893.]

[Footnote 77: Forbes Leslie's Early Races of Scotland, vol. ii. p. 335, note.]

[Footnote 78: O'Curry's Lectures, Dublin, 1861, p. 505.]

[Footnote 79: For most of which see Dr. Standish O'Grady's Silva Gadelica, pp. 102-3, 146,
233, 474, and 484.]

[Footnote 80: Silva Gadelica (English translation), pp. 474 and 520.]

[Footnote 81: Op. cit. (English translation), p. 522.]

[Footnote 82: Skene's Celtic Scotland, vol. iii. pp. 106-7.]

[Footnote 83: Class H. 3, 17, Trinity College, Dublin. [I quote from Mr. Petrie's "Round Towers,"
Trans, of Roy. Irish Acad., vol. xx. (Dublin, 1845), p. 98.]]

[Footnote 84: Rath Chruachain, Co. Roscommon: the cemetery was styled Relig na Riogh, or the
Cemetery of Kings.]

[Footnote 85: Op. cit., p. 106.]

[Footnote 86: "Is in Brug, or Bruig." Mr. Petrie invariably translates this as "at" Brugh.
But I observe that Dr. Standish O'Grady (Silva Gadelica, p. 256; and p. 289 of English translation)
renders the Gaelic particle by English "in." To decide between two Gaelic scholars is not within
my province. But if Dr. O'Grady understands "the Brugh" to be synonymous with Sídh an Bhrogha
(as perhaps he does not), the adoption of his reading would lead to an inference which is opposed
to common sense.]

[Footnote 87: Molyneux, writing in 1725, says that "when first the cave was opened, the bones
of two dead bodies entire, not burnt, were found upon the floor." Colonel Forbes Leslie remarks:
"Llhuyd, the antiquary, writing in 1699, makes no mention of any human remains being found in it."]

[Footnote 88: Since the above was written, the quarterly number, June 1893, of the Journal
of the Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland has been issued, and a note therein confirms
the suspicion, indicated in Mr. Wakeman's drawing, that the whole mound is not yet explored.
But the above remarks are applicable in any case.]

[Footnote 89: Petrie: op. cit., p. 106.]

[Footnote 90: That is, Lughaidh of the Red Stripes; "meaning that on his person he had two
such: one as girdle round his middle, another as necklace round his neck." (Silva Gadelica,
English translation, p. 544.)]

[Footnote 91: Petrie (op. cit., p. 101), quoting from the "History of the Cemeteries" in the
Leabhar na h-Uidhre.]

[Footnote 92: These two extracts are from Silva Gadelica, Eng. transl., pp. 495 and 544; where
the references are, respectively, "Book of Ballymote, 250 a b," and "Kilbride No. 3, Advocates'
Library, Edinburgh, 5."]

PLATES XX. AND XXI.--The Denghoog, Island of Sylt, North Friesland.

In addition to my original collection, I am now able to show three views of the Denghoog, in
Sylt, which is the mound referred to on p. 34 (ante). Mr. W.G. Black speaks of it thus:--

     "There is some confusion as to King Finn's dwelling. As doctors
     differ, we may be allowed to claim that it was the Denghoog, close
     to Wenningstedt, if only because we descended into that remarkable
     dwelling. Externally merely a swelling green mound, like so many
     others in Sylt, entrance is gained by a trap-door in the roof, and
     decending a steep ladder, one finds himself in a subterranean
     chamber, some seventeen by ten feet in size, the walls of which are
     twelve huge blocks of Swedish granite; the height of the roof
     varies from five feet to six feet. The original entrance appears to
     have been a long narrow passage, seventeen feet long and about two
     feet wide and high. This mound was examined by a Hamburg professor
     in 1868, who found remains of a fireplace, bones of a small man,
     some clay urns, and stone weapons. Later, a Kiel professor is said
     to have carried off all he found therein to Kiel Museum, and so far
     we have not been able to trace the published accounts of his
     investigations."[93]

Mr. Christian Jensen, Oevenum, Föhr, to whom I am indebted for these three views, has favoured
me with the following information:--

     "The sketches of the Denhoog which I enclose [viz., the Ground Plan
     and Sectional View] are from the drawings of Professor Wibel, who
     conducted the excavation of it in 1868. From his and C.P. Hansen's
     observations I contribute the following statements: Originally, the
     mound was higher, but in 1868 it had the form of a truncated cone,
     4½ mètres [say 14 feet 9 inches] in height. As may be seen from
     the picture, it slopes away to the south above the original passage
     into the mound, which the dweller made use of as his entrance; so
     that the extent is very considerable. The present entrance, as may
     be seen from the view of the interior, was made from above, at the
     north side, directly opposite the original entrance.... Dr. Wibel
     says: 'At the south side of the chamber is the doorway for ingress
     and egress, with the passage itself leading from it. This passage,
     which was 6 mètres [19 feet 8 inches] in length, was lined with
     upright blocks of granite and gneiss, with a roofing and floor made
     of flagstones of the same kinds of stone. It was opened up all the
     way to the mouth of the passage. This [the outer orifice] lay close
     to the extremity of the earth and near the floor of the mound, was
     closed with earth only, not with a stone, and measured about 1
     mètre [3 feet 3.4 inches] in height, and 1⅓ mètre in breadth.
     On account of these dimensions ... one can only creep through
     with difficulty, and for that reason the plan does not show with
     accuracy the position of the wall-slabs, and their number is merely
     conjectured to be nine.'

     "Immediately after this excavation of 17-19 September, 1868, C.P.
     Hansen writes as follows:--

     "'There are in the island of Sylt hillocks of ancient origin, for
     the most part pagan burying-places, but some of which may have
     served as the dwelling-places of a primitive people. One such
     hillock has just been opened at Wenningstedt. The interior was
     found to be a chamber, 17 feet long, 10 feet in breadth, and from 5
     to 6 feet in height, with a covered passage about 22 feet long,
     trending southward. The walls of this underground room were
     composed of twelve large granite blocks, regularly arranged; the
     roof consisted of three still larger slabs of the same kind of
     rock; the stones which formed the passage were smaller. At one
     corner of the floor of the cellar there was a well-defined
     fireplace, and near it were urns and flint implements; in the
     opposite corner there were many bones lying, apparently unburned,
     probably those of the last dweller in the cavern.'"

Mr. Christian Jensen gives an account of "Der Denghoog bei Wenningstedt" in the "Beilage zu
Nr. 146 der Flensburger Nachrichten" of 25th June 1893, in which he says:

     "... On the floor of the chamber, three separate divisions were
     distinctly visible, of which one, situated on the east side, showed
     traces of having been a fireplace. Professor Wibel found several
     fragments of human bones, which evidently belonged only to one
     individual, as no portion was duplicated; also a few animals'
     bones. There was an extraordinary number of fragments of pottery,
     belonging to about 24 different urns, of which 11 could be put
     together. Their form and ornamentation were both fine and varied,
     an interesting witness to the ceramics of the grey past.... Among
     the stone implements found were a great many flint-knives; two
     stone hatchets, two chisels, and a gouge, all of flint, and a disc
     of porphyry were also obtained. Several mineral substances,
     quartzite, rubble-stones, gravel, ochre, a sinter-heap--these are
     less interesting than the seven amber beads which, with some
     charcoal, completes the list of objects found. Referring to former
     investigations of galleried mounds [gangbauten], which seem to
     have been used in some cases as burying-places, in others as
     dwellings, Dr. Wibel observes, in answer to the question resulting
     from his discovery, as to whether the Denghoog ought to be regarded
     as a sepulchre or as a dwelling, that, as Nilsson has already said,
     all gallery-mounds were originally dwellings, and occasionally
     became utilised as tombs. In the case of the Denghoog, this fact is
     demonstrated by the fireplace, the scattered potsherds, the amber
     beads, &c."

[Footnote 93: Heligoland, Edin. and Lond., 1888, pp. 84-85.]

Of the little woodcut which forms the Tailpiece of this volume, it is hardly necessary to say
that it represents some popular ideas regarding "the little people." The woodcut of which this
is a facsimile is one of those contained in the eighteenth-century chap-book, "Round about
our Coal Fire; or, Christmas Entertainments," and it heads the chapter "Of Fairies, their Use
and Dignity." "They generally came out of a Mole-hill," it is said; "they had fine Musick always
among themselves, and Danced in a Moonshiny Night around, or in a Ring as one may see at this
Day upon every Common in England, where Mushroones [sic] grow," The size of the mushroom, so
elegantly depicted in the foreground, is quite on a scale suitable to the stature ultimately
accorded to the little people in many districts; so also is the mole-hill. But the tree, and
the Satanic head in the foliage, are curiously out of proportion.

       *       *       *       *       *

An examination of these various diagrams will show that the more primitive of those structures
were obviously built by a small-sized race; some of the passages being quite impassable to
large men of the present day. This peculiarity was noticed by Scott when visiting the "brochs"
of Shetland, a kindred class of structures (none of which are here shown). "These Duns or Picts'
Castles are so small," he says, writing in his Diary in August 1814, "it is impossible to conceive
what effectual purpose they could serve excepting a temporary refuge for the chief." This reflection
was suggested to him by the Broch of Cleik-him-in (now usually written Clickemin), near Lerwick;
and in describing it he says: "The interior gallery, with its apertures, is so extremely low
and narrow, being only about three feet square, that it is difficult to conceive how it could
serve the purpose of communication. At any rate, the size fully justifies the tradition prevalent
here, as well as in the south of Scotland, that the Picts were a diminutive race." Of the Broch
of Mousa he says: "The uppermost gallery is so narrow and low that it was with great difficulty
I crept through it,"--a feat which baffled the present writer.[94] In all those cases, of course,
it is understood one has to crawl. As with the Lapps and the Eskimos, creeping was much more
a matter of course with the builders of those places than it is with us. After getting through
such passages it happens that, in several instances, the roof is higher than is required for
the tallest living man. An admirable example of such a place is the underground "Picts' House"
at Pitcur, in Forfarshire, which would be quite a palace to people of a small race, and very
likely figures as such in some popular tale; its dimensions and appearance considerably magnified
with every century.[95] But even this "fairy palace" was entered by narrow, downward-sloping
passages, similar to that seen in the Frontispiece, down and up which the dwellers had to crawl.
An underground gallery such as that of Ardtole (near Ardglass, County Down), is somewhat puzzling,
because, while one chamber off it rises to a height of 5 feet 3 inches, another is only 3½
feet high; and the main gallery, for 70 feet of its length, is 4½ feet high, with a width of
3 feet 4 inches. The inference from this seems to be that the occupants were under 4½ feet
in height. If they had intended to crawl along the 70 feet, they did not require so high a
roof; whereas, if they walked, and if they were more than 4½ feet in height, they would need
to walk the 70 feet in a stooping posture, a constraint which they could easily have avoided
by raising the roof a foot or two. The highest roof in all this souterrain being 5 feet 3,
it does not seem likely that the builders were taller than that; and there seems more reason
to believe that they were much smaller. Another such gallery in Sutherlandshire is "nowhere
more than 4½ feet in height, and for the greater part of its length only 2 feet wide, expanding
to 3½, for about 3 feet only from the inner end." Still more restricted is the "rath-cave"
of Ballyknock, in the parish of Ballynoe, barony of Kinnatalloon, County Cork. "The cave is
a mere cutting in the clayey subsoil, and is roofed with flags resting on the clayey banks
of the cutting, of which the length is about 100 feet, and the height and width from 3 to 3½
feet, except that the width to a height of 2 feet is hardly a foot at the N.W. turn, 23 feet
from the N.E. end, and at a point 27 feet from the S.E. end.... Right below the aperture ...
was a short pillar-stone, deeply scored with Oghams ... [and] many of the roofing slabs were
seen ... to be inscribed with Oghams, some large and others minute."[96]

"This class of structures deserves a careful study," observes Captain Thomas, referring to
the souterrains of the north-west of Scotland;[97] "for the room or accommodation afforded
by this mode of building is exceedingly small when compared with the labour expended in procuring
it; besides, the doorway or entry is often so contracted that no bulky object, not even a very
stout man, could get in ... But what are we to think when the single passage is so small that
only a child could crawl through it?"

[Footnote 94: On the very topmost course of all, the gallery dwindles into such insignificant
dimensions that not even a dwarf (as one would naturally understand that term) could creep
along it. Scott cannot have meant this very extremity. With regard to it, I should be inclined
to say that it was merely the necessary finish of the gallery, not intended to be used any
more than the spaces beside the eaves of a house.]

[Footnote 95: The tendency to "idealisation on the part of the narrator" is referred to, in
this connection, by Mr. Joseph Jacobs, at p. 242 of his "English Fairy Tales" (London, D. Nutt,
1890).]

[Footnote 96: Jour. Roy. Soc. Antiq. Ireland, 1891 (Third Quarter), p. 517. It is not inappropriate
to add that one of these inscriptions reads: "Branan, son of Ochal," and that the decipherer
(the Rev. Edmond Barry, M.R.I.A.) identifies this latter name with "the name of a King of the
Fairies of Connaught (Ri Síde Connacht)": op. cit., pp. 524-525. The Ardtole souterrain is
described in the Journal of the same Society (July-October, 1889, p. 245), by Mr. Seaton F.
Milligan, M.R.I.A.; and the one in Sutherlandshire is referred to by Dr. Joseph Anderson (at
p. 289 of "Scotland in Pagan Times: The Iron Age," Edinburgh, 1883).]

[Footnote 97: Proc. Soc. Antiq. Scot. (First Series), vol. vii. pp. 185-6.]

Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO. London & Edinburgh.

