When a Roman soldier was told by his guide that if he insisted on taking a certain journey
it would probably be fatal he answered, “It is necessary for me to go, it is not necessary
for me to live.” That was depth. When we are convicted like that we shall come to something.

The shallow nature lives in its impulses, its impressions, its intuitions, its instincts, and
very largely in its surroundings. The profound character looks beyond all these and moves steadily
on, sailing past all the storms and clouds into the clear sunshine which is always on the other
side, and waiting for the afterwards which always brings the reversion of sorrow and seeming
defeat and failure.

When God has deepened us, then He can give us His deeper truths, His profoundest secrets, and
His mightier trusts.

Lord, lead me into the depths of Thy life and save me from a shallow experience.

On to broader fields of holy vision;
  On to loftier heights of faith and love;
Onward, upward, apprehending wholly,
  All for which He calls thee from above.

DECEMBER 4.

“From me is thy fruit found” (Hos. xiv. 8).

Nothing keeps us from advancement more than ruts and drifts, and wheel-tracks into which our
chariots roll and then move on in the narrow line with unchanging monotony, currents in life’s
stream on which we are borne in the old direction until the law of habit almost makes advance
impossible. The true remedy for this is to commence at nothing; taking Christ afresh to be
the Alpha and Omega for a deeper, higher, Divine experience, waiting even for His conception
of thought, desire, prayer, and afraid lest our highest thought should be below His great plan
of wisdom and love.

O Comforter gentle and tender,
  O holy and heavenly Dove,
We’re yielding our heart in surrender,
  We’re waiting Thy fulness to prove.

Anoint us with gladness and healing;
  Baptize us with power from on high;
O come with filling and sealing
  While low at the Thy footstool we lie.

DECEMBER 5.

“With a perfect heart to make David King” (I. Chron. xii. 38).

“What is the supreme purpose of our life? They were all of one heart to make David king.” Is
this our purpose, to prepare the Bride, to prepare the world, to prepare His way? Does it dwarf
and dim all other ambitions, all other cares? Does it fill and satisfy every capacity, every
power, every desire? Does it absorb every moment, every energy, every resource? Does it give
direction and tone to every plan and work of life? Does it decide for us the education of our
children, the investment of our means, the friendships and associations of life, the whole
activity, interest and outlook of our being? Are we in it, spirit, soul and body, all we are,
all we do, all we hope for—OF ONE HEART TO MAKE JESUS KING?

We’re going forth united
  With loyal heart and hand,
To bear His royal banner
  Aboard o’er every land.

From every tribe and nation
  We’ll haste His Bride to bring.
And Oh, with what glad welcome
  We’ll make our Jesus King.

DECEMBER 6.

“Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you” (I. Peter v. 6).

Opposition is essential to a true equilibrium of forces. The centripetal and centrifugal forces
acting in opposition to each other keep our planet in her orbit. The one propelling, and the
other repelling, so act and react, that instead of sweeping off into space in a pathway of
desolation and destruction, she pursues her even orbit around her solar center.

So God guides our lives. It is not enough to have an impelling force—we need just as much a
repelling force, and so He holds us back by the testing ordeals of life, by the pressure of
temptation and trial, by the things that seem to be against us, but really are furthering our
way and stablishing our goings. Let us thank Him for both, let us take the weights as well
as the wings, and thus divinely impelled, let us press on with faith and patience in our high
and heavenly calling.

Lord, help me to learn from all that comes to me this day Thy highest will.

Lord, help me to-day to sink under Thy blessed hand, that Thou mayest have Thy way and will
with me.

DECEMBER 7.

“Abide with us; for it is toward evening” (Luke xxiv. 29).

In His last messages to the disciples in the 14th and 15th chapters of John, the Lord Jesus
clearly teaches us that the very essence of the highest holiness is, “Abide in Me, and I in
you, for without Me ye can do nothing.”

The very purpose of the Holy Ghost whom He promised was to reveal Him, that at “that day, ye
shall know that I am in the Father, and ye in Me, and I in you,” and the closing echo of His
intercessory prayer was embraced in these three small but infinite words, “I in them.”

Is it for me to be cleansed by His power
  From the pollution of sin?
Is it for me to be kept every hour
  By His abiding within?

Is it for me to be perfectly whole
  Thro’ His anointing divine;
Claiming in body, and spirit, and soul,
  All of His fulness as mine?

Wonderful promise so full and so free,
  Wonderful Saviour, Oh, how can it be,
Cleansing and pardon and mercy for me?
  Yes, it’s for me, for me.

DECEMBER 8.

“Is there no balm in Gilead; is there no physician there?” (Jer. viii. 22).

Divine healing is just divine life. It is the headship of Christ over the body. It is the life
of Christ in the frame. It is the union of our members with the very body of Christ and the
inflowing life of Christ in our living members. It is as real as His risen and glorified body.
It is as reasonable as the fact that He was raised from the dead and is a living man with a
true body and a rational soul to-day, at God’s right hand. That living Christ belongs to us
in all His attributes and powers. We are members of His body, His flesh and His bones, and
if we can only believe and receive it, we may live upon the very life of the Son of God.

Lord, help me to know the “Lord for the body and the body for the Lord.”

There is healing in the promise,
  There is healing in the blood,
There is strength for all our weakness
  In the risen Son of God.

And the feeblest of His children,
  All His glorious life may share;
He has healing balm in Gilead,
  He’s the Great Physician there.

DECEMBER 9.

“Launch out into the deep” (Luke v. 4).

One of the special marks of the Holy Ghost in the Apostolic Church was the spirit Of boldness.
One of the most essential qualities of the faith that is to attempt great things for God and
expect great things from God, is holy audacity. Where we are dealing with a supernatural Being,
and taking from Him things that are humanly impossible, it is easier to take much than little;
it is easier to stand in a place of audacious trust than in a place of cautious, timid clinging
to the shore. Like wise seamen in the life of faith, let us launch out into the deep, and find
that all things are possible with God, and all things are possible unto him that believeth.

Let us to-day attempt great things for God, take His faith and believe for them and His strength
to accomplish them.

Oh, let us launch out in this ocean so broad,
  Where the floods of salvation o’erflow,
Oh, let us be lost in the mercy of God,
  Till the depth of His fulness we know.

DECEMBER 10.

“According to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed” (II. Cor. x. 13).

According to thy faith be it unto thee was Christ’s great law of healing and blessing in His
earthly ministry. This was what He meant when He said, “With what measure ye mete it shall
be measured to you again.” These mighty measures are limited by the the measures that we bring.
God deals out His heavenly treasures to us in these glorious vessels, but each of us must bring
our drinking cup, and according to its measure we shall be filled.

But even the measure of our faith may be a Divine one. Thank God, the little cup has become
enlarged through the grace of Jesus, until from its bottom there flows a pipe into the great
ocean, and if that connection is kept open we shall find that our cup is as large as the ocean
and never can be drained to the bottom. For He has said to us, “Have the faith of God,” and
surely this is an illimitable measure.

Let us claim the mighty promise,
  Let us light the torches dim;
Let us join the glorious chorus,
  Nothing is too hard for Him.

DECEMBER 11.

“I pray not for the world, but for them” (John xvii. 9).

How often we say we would like to get some strong spirit to pray for us, and feel so helped
when we think they are carrying us in their faith. But there is One whose prayers never fail
to be fulfilled and who is more willing to give them to us than any human friend. His one business
at God’s right hand is to make intercession for His people, and we are simply coming in the
line of His own appointment and His own definite promise and provision, when we lay our burdens
upon Him and claim His advocacy without doubt or fear.

O’er the heavenly altar bending,
  Jesus interceding stands,
All our prayers to heaven ascending,
  Reach the Father through His hands.

DECEMBER 12.

“To abide in the flesh is more needful for you, and having this confidence, I know that I shall
abide” (Phil. i. 24, 25).

One of the most blessed things about divine healing is that the strength it brings is holy
strength, and finds its natural and congenial outflow in holy acts and exercises.

Mere natural strength seeks its gratification in natural pleasures and activities, but the
strength of Christ leads us to do as Christ would do, and to seek our congenial employment
in His holy service.

The life of Christ in a human body saves it from a thousand temptations to self-indulgence
and sin, and not only gives us strength for higher service, but also a desire for it, and puts
into it a zest and spring which gives it double power.

Lord, help us to-day to claim Thy life and then give it for the help of others.

Have you found the branch of healing?
    Pass it on.
Have you felt the Spirit’s sealing,
    Pass it on.

DECEMBER 13.

“He that abideth in Me and I in him the same bringeth forth much fruit for apart from Me ye
can do nothing” (John xv. 5).

So familiar are the vine and the branches, it is not necessary to explain; only the branches
and the vine are one. The vine does not say, I am the central trunk running up and you are
the little branches; but I am the whole thing, and you are the whole thing. He counts us partakers
of His nature. “Apart from Me ye can do nothing.” The husband and the wife, and many more figures
contribute to this marvelous Christ teaching, which has no parallel, no precedent in any other
teaching under the sun; that Christ is the life of His people, and that we are absolutely linked
with and dependent upon Him. All other systems teach how much man is and may become. Christianity
shows how a man must lose all he is if he would come into full unity with Christ in His life.

Lord, help me this day to abide in Thee.

Oh! what a wonderful place
  Jesus has given to me!
Saved by His glorious grace,
  I may be even as He.

DECEMBER 14.

“Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree” (Isa. lv. 13).

Difficulties and obstacles are God’s challenges to faith.
Nothing is too hard for Jesus,
  No man can work like Him.

When my way is closed in darkness
  And my foes are fierce and grim,
Still it sings above the conflict
  Like some glad, victorious hymn:
Nothing is too hard for Jesus,
  No man can work like Him.

DECEMBER 15.

“When my heart is overwhelmed lead me to the Rock that is higher than I” (Ps. lxi. 2).

The end of self is the beginning of God. “When the tale of bricks is doubled then comes Moses.”
That is the old Hebrew way of putting it. “Man’s extremity is God’s opportunity.” That is the
proverbial expression of it. “When my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher
than I.” That is David’s way of expressing it. “We have no might against this company, neither
know we what to do.” No might, no light—“but our eyes are upon Thee,” that was Jehoshaphat’s
experience of it. “Mine eyes fail with looking upward. I am oppressed, Lord, undertake for me.”

“When I had great trouble I always went to God and was wondrously carried through; but in my
little trials I used to try to manage them myself, and often most signally failed.” So Miss
Havergal has expressed the experience of many a Christian. God wants us “at our wit’s end,”
and then He will show His wisdom, love and power. How often we ask God to help, and then begin
to count up the human probabilities! God’s very blessings become a hindrance to us if we look
from Him to them.

DECEMBER 16. 25).

A friend said to me once: “I have got to reap what I sowed, for God has said: ‘Whatsoever a
man soweth, that shall he also reap.’ Then why don’t you apply this in the spiritual world,
and compel the sinner to pay the penalty of his sins?”

Christ has borne this penalty, and the same Christ has borne the natural penalties, too, and
delivered us out of condemnation in every sense. Physical sufferings come to us, but not under
the law of retribution, but only as a Divine discipline. Every penalty has been fulfilled by
Christ and every law satisfied, and so far as we can have risen with Him into the plane of
spiritual and eternal life, we are lifted above the mere realm of law, and we enter into the
full effects of His complete satisfaction of every claim against us. So it is true that even
the wreck that sin has brought upon our physical and temporal life is removed by His great
atonement, and the promise is made real to us, “I will restore to you the years that the locust
hath eaten.”

DECEMBER 17.

“Be careful for nothing” (Phil. iv. 6).

What is the way to lay your burden down? You will find that His burden is always light. Yours
is a very heavy one. Happy day if you have exchanged burdens and laid down your loads at His
blessed feet to take up His own instead. God wants to rest His workers, and He is too kind
to put His burden on hearts that are already bowed down with their own weight of cares.

Are you fearing, fretting or repining?
  You can never know God’s perfect peace.
On His bosom all your weight reclining.
  All your anxious doubts and cares must cease.
Would you know the peace that God has given?
Would you find the very joy of heaven?
Be careful for nothing,
Be prayerful for everything,
Be thankful for anything,
And the peace of God that passeth understanding
  Shall keep your mind and heart.

DECEMBER 18.

“The faith of the Son of God” (Gal. ii. 20).

Faith is hindered most of all by what we call “our faith,” and fruitless struggles to work
out a faith which is but a make-believe and a desperate trying to trust God, which must ever
come short of His vast and glorious promises. The truth is that the only faith that is equal
to the stupendous promises of God and the measureless needs of our life, is “the faith of God”
Himself, the very trust which He will breathe into the heart which intelligently expects Him
as its power to believe, as well as its power to love, obey, or perform any other exercise
of the new life.

Blessed be His name! He has not given us a chain which reaches within a single link of our
poor helpless heart, but that one last link is fatal to all the chain. Nay, the last link,
the one that fastens on the human side is as Divine as the link that binds the chain of promise
in the heavens. “Have the faith of God,” is His great command. “I live by the faith of the
Son of God” is the victorious testimony of one who had proved it true.

Lord, teach me to have the faith of the Son of God.

DECEMBER 19.

“God giveth grace unto the humble” (James iv. 6).

One of the marks of highest worth is deep lowliness. The shallow nature, conscious of its weakness
and insufficiency, is always trying to advertise itself and make sure of its being appreciated.
The strong nature, conscious of its strength, is willing to wait and let its work be made manifest
in due time. Indeed, the truest natures are so free from all self-consciousness and self-consideration
that their object is not to be appreciated, understood or recompensed, but to accomplish their
true mission and fulfil the real work of life.

One of the most suggestive expressions used respecting the Lord Jesus is given by the evangelist
John in the thirteenth chapter of His Gospel, where we read, “Jesus, knowing that He came from
God, and went to God, riseth from supper and began to wash the disciples’ feet.” It was because
He knew His high dignity and His high destiny that He could stoop to the lowest place and that
place could not degrade Him.

God give to us the Divine insignia of heavenly rank, a bowed head, a meek and lowly spirit.

DECEMBER 20.

“That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the Gospel of God”
(Rom. xv. 16).

This is a very beautiful and practical conception of missionary work. There is a great difference
in being consecrated to our God. We may be consecrated to our work and consecrated to our God.
We may be consecrated and fitted to do missionary work, and utterly fail, if He should call
us to do something different. But when we are consecrated to Him, we shall be ready for anything
He may require of us, and be as well qualified to serve Him by the sick bed of a brother, or
even in the secular duties of home, as in standing in the pulpit or leading a soul to Christ.

Paul’s conception is holy work, or a special sacrifice, and directly unto Christ, and Christ
alone; and he stood as one should stand at the altar of incense, lifting up with holy hands
the Gentile nations unto God, and laying all his work like fragrant incense before the throne,
pleased only with what would please his Master, and stand the test of His inspection, and the
seal of His approval in that glorious day.

This is the spirit of true service.

DECEMBER 21.

“Give us day by day our daily bread” (Luke xi. 3).

It is very hard to live a lifetime at once, or even a year, but it is delightfully easy to
live a day at a time. Day by day the manna fell, so day by day we may live upon the heavenly
bread, and live out our life for Him. Let us, breath by breath, moment by moment, step by step,
abide in Him, and, just as we take care of the days, He will take care of the years.

God has given two precious promises for the days. “As thy days so shall thy strength be,” is
His ancient covenant, and the literal translation of our Master’s parting words to His disciples
is, “Lo, I am with you all the days, even unto the end of the age.”

Like the little water spider that goes down beneath the waters of the pool enclosed in a bubble
of air, and there builds its nest and rears its young, and lives its little life in that bright
sphere down beneath the slimy pool, so let us in this dark world shut ourselves in with Christ
in the little circle of each returning day, and so abide in Him, breathing the air of heaven
and living in His love.

DECEMBER 22.

“My tongue also shall talk of Thy righteousness all the day long” (Ps. lxxi. 24).

It is a simple law of nature, that air always comes in to fill a vacuum. You can produce a
draught at any time, by heating the air until it ascends, and then the cold air rushes in to
supply its place. And so we can always be filled with the Holy Spirit by providing a vacuum.
This breath is dependent upon exhausting the previous breath before you can inhale a fresh
one. And so we must empty our hearts of the last breath of the Holy Spirit that we have received,
for it becomes exhausted the moment we have received it, and we need a new supply, to prevent
spiritual asphyxia.

We must learn the secret of breathing out, as well as breathing in. Now, the breathing in will
continue if the other part is rightly done. One of the best ways to make room for the Holy
Spirit is to recognize the needs that come into the life as vacuums for Him to fill, and we
shall find plenty of needs all around us to be filled, and as we pour out our lives in holy
service, He will pour His in—in full measure.

Jesus, empty me and fill me With Thy fulness to the brim.

DECEMBER 23.

“Out of the spoils won in battles, did they dedicate to maintain the house of the Lord” (I.
Chron. xxvi. 27).

Physical force is stored in the bowels of the earth, in the coal mines, which came from the
fiery heat that burned up great forests in ancient ages. And so spiritual force is stored in
the depths of our being, through the very sufferings which we cannot understand. Some day we
shall find that the deliverance we have won from these trials were preparing us to become true
“Great Hearts” in life’s Pilgrim’s Progress, and to lead our fellow pilgrims triumphantly through
trial to the city of the King.

But let us never forget that the source of helping other people must be victorious suffering.
The whining, murmuring pang never does anybody any good. Paul did not carry a cemetery with
him, but a chorus choir of victorious praise, and the harder the trial, the more he trusted
and rejoiced, shouting from the very altar of sacrifice, “Yea, and if I be offered upon the
service and sacrifice of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all.”

Lord, help me this day to draw strength from all that comes to me.

DECEMBER 24.

A promise given for hard places, and a promise of safety and life in the midst of tremendous
pressure, a life for a prey.

It may well adjust itself to our own times, which are growing harder as we near the end of
the age, and the tribulation times.

What is the meaning of “a life for a prey”? It means a life snatched out of the jaws of the
destroyer, as David snatched the lamb from the lion. It means not a place of security, or of
removal from the noise of the battle, and the presence of our foes, but it means a table in
the midst of our enemies, a shelter from the storm, a fortress amid the foe, a life preserved
in the face of continual pressure, Paul’s healing when pressed out of measure so that he despaired
even of life, Paul’s Divine help when the thorn remained, but the power of Christ rested upon
him and the grace of Christ was sufficient.

Lord, give me my life for a prey, and in the hardest places help me to-day to be victorious.

DECEMBER 25.

“I bring you glad tidings” (Luke ii. 10).

A Christmas spirit should be a spirit of humanity. Beside that beautiful object lesson on the
Manger, the Cradle, and the lowly little child, what Christian heart can ever wish to be proud?
It is a spirit of joy. It is right that these should be glad tidings, for, “Behold, I bring
you glad tidings of great joy which shall be to all people.”

It is a spirit of love. It should be the joy that comes from giving joy to others. The central
fact of Christmas is the Christ who loved us, and came to live among us and die for us, and
he or she has no right to share its joys who is living for himself or herself alone.

