While this Hall was being painted, Giulio and Giovan Francesco, although they could not meet
the demands of their friends even in part, executed an altar-piece with the Assumption of Our
Lady, a very beautiful work, which was sent to Perugia and placed in the Convent of the Nuns
of Monteluci. Then, having withdrawn to work by himself, Giulio painted a picture of Our Lady,
with a cat that was so natural that it appeared to be truly alive; whence that picture was
called the Picture of the Cat. In another picture, of great size, he painted a Christ being
scourged at the Column, which was placed on the altar of the Church of S. Prassedia at Rome.
And not long after this, M. Giovan Matteo Giberti, who was then Datary to Pope Clement, and
afterwards became Bishop of Verona, commissioned Giulio, who was his very familiar friend,
to make the design for some rooms that were built of brick near the gate of the Papal Palace,
looking out upon the Piazza of S. Pietro, and serving for the accommodation of the trumpeters
who blow their trumpets when the Cardinals go to the Consistory, with a most commodious flight
of steps, which can be ascended on horseback as well as on foot. For the same M. Giovan Matteo
he painted an altar-piece of the Stoning of S. Stephen, which M. Giovan Matteo sent to a benefice
of his own, called S. Stefano, in Genoa. In this altar-piece, which is most beautiful in invention,
grace, and composition, the young Saul may be seen seated on the garments of S. Stephen while
the Jews are stoning him; and, in a word, Giulio never painted a more beautiful work than this,
so fierce are the attitudes of the persecutors and so well expressed the patience of Stephen,
who appears to be truly seeing Jesus Christ on the right hand of the Father in the Heaven,
which is painted divinely well. This work, together with the benefice, M. Giovan Matteo gave
to the Monks of Monte Oliveto, who have turned the place into a monastery.

The same Giulio executed at the commission of the German Jacob Fugger, for a chapel that is
in S. Maria de Anima at Rome, a most lovely altar-piece in oils, in which are the Madonna,
S. Anne, S. Joseph, S. James, S. John as a little boy kneeling, and S. Mark the Evangelist
with a lion at his feet, which is lying down with a book, its hair curving in accordance with
its position, which was a beautiful consideration, and difficult to execute; not to mention
that the same lion has short wings on its shoulders, with feathers so soft and plumy, that
it seems almost incredible that the hand of a craftsman could have been able to imitate nature
so closely. Besides this, he painted there a building that curves in a circular form after
the manner of a theatre, with some statues so beautiful and so well placed that there is nothing
better to be seen. Among other figures there is a woman who is spinning and gazing at a hen
with some chickens, than which nothing could be more natural; and above Our Lady are some little
boys, very graceful and well painted, who are upholding a canopy. And if this picture, also,
had not been so heavily loaded with black, by reason of which it has become very dark, it would
certainly have been much better; but this blackness has brought it about that the greater part
of the work that is in it is lost or destroyed, and that because black, even when fortified
with varnish, is the ruin of all that is good, always having in it a certain desiccative quality,
whether it be made from charcoal, burnt ivory, smoke-black, or burnt paper.

Among the many disciples that Giulio had while he was executing these works, such as Bartolommeo
da Castiglione, Tommaso Papacello of Cortona, and Benedetto Pagni of Pescia, those of whom
he made the most particular use were Giovanni da Lione and Raffaello dal Colle of Borgo a San
Sepolcro, both of whom assisted him in the execution of many things in the Hall of Constantine
and in the other works of which we have spoken. Wherefore I do not think it right to refrain
from mentioning that these two, who were very dexterous in painting, and followed the manner
of Giulio closely in carrying into execution the works that he designed for them, painted in
colours after his design, near the old Mint in the Banchi, the escutcheon of Pope Clement VII,
each of them doing one-half, with two terminal figures, one on either side of that escutcheon.
And the same Raffaello, not long after, painted in fresco from a cartoon drawn by Giulio, in
a lunette within the door of the Palace of Cardinal della Valle, a Madonna who is covering
the Child, who is sleeping, with a piece of drapery, with S. Andrew the Apostle on one side
and S. Nicholas on the other, which was held, with justice, to be an excellent picture.

Giulio, meanwhile, being very intimate with Messer Baldassarre Turini da Pescia, built for
him on Mount Janiculum, where there are some villas that have a most beautiful view, after
making the design and model, a palace so graceful and so well appointed, from its having all
the conveniences that could be desired in such a place, that it defies description. Moreover,
the apartments were adorned not only with stucco, but also with paintings, for he himself painted
there some stories of Numa Pompilius, who was buried on that spot; and in the bathroom of this
palace, with the help of his young men, Giulio painted some stories of Venus, Love, Apollo,
and Hyacinthus, which are all to be seen in engraving.

After having separated himself completely from Giovan Francesco, he executed various architectural
works in Rome, such as the design of the house of the Alberini in the Banchi (although some
believe that the plan of this work came from Raffaello), and likewise a palace that may be
seen at the present day on the Piazza della Dogana in Rome, which, being beautiful in design,
has been reproduced in engraving. And for himself, on a corner of the Macello de' Corbi, where
stood his own house, in which he was born, he made a beginning with a beautiful range of windows,
which is a small thing, but very graceful.

By reason of all these excellent qualities, Giulio, after the death of Raffaello, was celebrated
as the best craftsman in Italy. And Count Baldassarre Castiglioni, who was then in Rome as
ambassador from Federigo Gonzaga, Marquis of Mantua, and was much the friend, as has been related,
of Giulio, having been commanded by his master the Marquis to send him an architect of whom
he might avail himself for the necessities of his palace and of the city, the Marquis adding
that he would particularly like to have Giulio--the Count, I say, so wrought upon him with
entreaties and promises, that Giulio said that he would go, provided that he could do this
with the leave of Pope Clement; which leave having been obtained, the Count, setting out for
Mantua, from which he was then to go on behalf of the Pope to the Emperor, took Giulio with
him; and having arrived there, he presented him to the Marquis, who, after welcoming him warmly,
caused an honourably appointed house to be given to him, together with a salary and also a
good table for himself, for his disciple Benedetto Pagni, and for another young man who was
in his service; and, what is more, the Marquis sent him several canne of velvet, satin, and
other kinds of silk and cloth wherewith to clothe himself. Then, hearing that he had no horse
to ride, he sent for a favourite horse of his own, called Luggieri, and presented it to him;
and when Giulio had mounted upon it, they rode to a spot a bow-shot beyond the Porta di S.
Bastiano, where His Excellency had a place with some stables, called the Tè, standing in the
middle of a meadow, in which he kept his stud of horses and mares. Arriving there, the Marquis
said that he would like, without destroying the old walls, to have some sort of place arranged
to which he might resort at times for dinner or supper, as a recreation.

Giulio, having heard the will of the Marquis, and having examined the whole place, took a ground-plan
of that site and set his hand to the work. Availing himself of the old walls, he made in the
principal part the first hall that is to be seen at the present day as one enters, with the
suite of rooms that are about it. And since the place has no living rock, and no quarries from
which to excavate material for hewn and carved stone, such as are used in building by those
who can obtain them, he made use of brick and baked stone, which he afterwards worked over
with stucco; and with this material he made columns, bases, capitals, cornices, doors, windows,
and other things, all with most beautiful proportions. And he executed the decorations of the
vaults in a new and fantastic manner, with very handsome compartments, and with richly adorned
recesses, which was the reason that the Marquis, after a beginning so humble, then resolved
to have the whole of that building reconstructed in the form of a great palace.

Thereupon Giulio made a very beautiful model, all of rustic work both without and within the
courtyard, which pleased that lord so much, that he assigned a good sum of money for the building;
and after Giulio had engaged many masters, the work was quickly carried to completion. The
form of the palace is as follows: The building is quadrangular, and has in the centre an open
courtyard after the manner of a meadow, or rather, of a piazza, into which open four entrances
in the form of a cross. The first of these traverses straightway, or rather, passes, into a
very large loggia, which opens by another into the garden, and two others lead into various
apartments; and these are all adorned with stucco-work and paintings. In the hall to which
the first entrance gives access the vaulting is wrought in various compartments and painted
in fresco, and on the walls are portraits from life of all the favourite and most beautiful
horses from the stud of the Marquis, together with the dogs of the same coat or marking as
the horses, with their names; which were all designed by Giulio, and painted in fresco on the
plaster by the painters Benedetto Pagni and Rinaldo Mantovano, his disciples, and so well,
in truth, that they seem to be alive.

From this hall one passes into a room which is at one corner of the palace, and has the vaulting
most beautifully wrought with compartments in stucco-work and varied mouldings, touched in
certain places with gold. These mouldings divide the surface into four octagons, which enclose
a picture in the highest part of the vaulting, in which is Cupid marrying Psyche in the sight
of Jove, who is on high, illumined by a dazzling celestial light, and in the presence of all
the Gods. It would not be possible to find anything executed with more grace or better draughtsmanship
than this scene, for Giulio foreshortened the figures so well, with a view to their being seen
from below, that some of them, although they are scarcely one braccio in length, appear when
seen from the ground to be three braccia high; and, in truth, they are wrought with marvellous
art and ingenuity, Giulio having succeeded in so contriving them, that, besides seeming to
be alive (so strong is the relief), they deceive the human eye with a most pleasing illusion.
In the octagons are all the earlier stories of Psyche, showing the adversities that came upon
her through the wrath of Venus, and all executed with the same beauty and perfection; in other
angles are many Loves, as likewise in the windows, producing various effects in accordance
with the spaces where they are; and the whole of the vaulting is painted in oils by the hands
of the above-mentioned Benedetto and Rinaldo. The rest of the stories of Psyche are on the
walls below, and these are the largest. In one in fresco is Psyche in the bath; and the Loves
are bathing her, and then wiping her dry with most beautiful gestures. In another part is Mercury
preparing the banquet, while Psyche is bathing, with the Bacchantes sounding instruments; and
there are the Graces adorning the table with flowers in a beautiful manner. There is also Silenus
supported by Satyrs, with his ass, and a goat lying down, which has two children sucking at
its udder; and in that company is Bacchus, who has two tigers at his feet, and stands leaning
with one arm on the credence, on one side of which is a camel, and on the other an elephant.
This credence, which is barrel-shaped, is adorned with festoons of verdure and flowers, and
all covered with vines laden with bunches of grapes and leaves, under which are three rows
of bizarre vases, basins, drinking-cups, tazze, goblets, and other things of that kind in various
forms and fantastic shapes, and so lustrous, that they seem to be of real silver and gold,
being counterfeited with a simple yellow and other colours, and that so well, that they bear
witness to the extraordinary genius and art of Giulio, who proved in this part of the work
that he was rich, versatile, and abundant in invention and craftsmanship. Not far away may
be seen Psyche, who, surrounded by many women who are serving and attiring her, sees Phoebus
appearing in the distance among the hills in the chariot of the sun, which is drawn by four
horses; while Zephyr is lying nude upon some clouds, and is blowing gentle breezes through
a horn that he has in his mouth, which make the air round Psyche balmy and soft. These stories
were engraved not many years since after the designs of Battista Franco of Venice, who copied
them exactly as they were painted from the great cartoons of Giulio by Benedetto of Pescia
and Rinaldo Mantovano, who carried into execution all the stories except the Bacchus, the Silenus,
and the two children suckled by the goat; although it is true that the work was afterwards
retouched almost all over by Giulio, so that it is very much as if it had been all painted
by him. This method, which he learned from Raffaello, his instructor, is very useful to young
men, who in this way obtain practice and thereby generally become excellent masters. And although
some persuade themselves that they are greater than those who keep them at work, such fellows,
if their guide fails them before they are at the end, or if they are deprived of the design
and directions for the work, learn that through having lost or abandoned that guidance too
early they are wandering like blind men in an infinite sea of errors.

But to return to the apartments of the Tè; from that room of Psyche one passes into another
full of double friezes with figures in low-relief, executed in stucco after the designs of
Giulio by Francesco Primaticcio of Bologna, then a young man, and by Giovan Battista Mantovano,
in which friezes are all the soldiers that are on Trajan's Column at Rome, wrought in a beautiful
manner. And on the ceiling, or rather soffit, of an antechamber is painted in oils the scene
when Icarus, having been taught by his father Dædalus, seeks to rise too high in his flight,
and, after seeing the Sign of Cancer and the chariot of the sun, which is drawn by four horses
in foreshortening, near the Sign of Leo, is left without his wings, the wax being consumed
by the heat of the sun; and near this the same Icarus may be seen hurtling through the air,
and almost falling upon those who gaze at him, his face dark with the shadow of death. This
invention was so well conceived and imagined by Giulio, that it seems to be real and true,
for in it one sees the fierce heat of the sun burning the wretched youth's wings, the flaming
fire gives out smoke, and one almost hears the crackling of the burning plumes, while death
may be seen carved in the face of Icarus, and in that of Dædalus the most bitter sorrow and
agony. In our book of drawings by various painters is the original design of this very beautiful
scene, by the hand of Giulio himself, who executed in the same place the stories of the twelve
months of the year, showing all that is done in each of them in the arts most practised by
mankind--paintings which are notable no less for their fantastic and delightful character and
their beauty of invention than for the judgment and diligence with which they were executed.

After passing the great loggia, which is adorned with stucco-work and with many arms and various
other bizarre ornaments, one comes to some rooms filled with such a variety of fantasies, that
the brain reels at the thought of them. For Giulio, who was very fanciful and ingenious, wishing
to demonstrate his worth, resolved to make, at an angle of the palace which formed a corner
similar to that of the room of Psyche described above, an apartment the masonry of which should
be in keeping with the painting, in order to deceive as much as possible all who might see
it. He therefore had double foundations of great depth sunk at that corner, which was in a
marshy place, and over that angle he constructed a large round room, with very thick walls,
to the end that the four external angles of the masonry might be strong enough to be able to
support a double vault, round after the manner of an oven. This done, he caused to be built
at the corners right round the room, in the proper places, the doors, windows, and fireplace,
all of rustic stones rough-hewn as if by chance, and, as it were, disjointed and awry, insomuch
that they appeared to be really hanging over to one side and falling down. Having built this
room in such strange fashion, he set himself to paint in it the most fantastic composition
that he was able to invent--namely, Jove hurling his thunderbolts against the Giants. And so,
depicting Heaven on the highest part of the vaulting, he placed there the throne of Jove, representing
it as seen in foreshortening from below and from the front, within a round temple, supported
by open columns of the Ionic Order, with his canopy over the centre of the throne, and with
his eagle; and all was poised upon the clouds. Lower down he painted Jove in anger, slaying
the proud Giants with his thunderbolts, and below him is Juno, assisting him; and around them
are the Winds, with strange countenances, blowing towards the earth, while the Goddess Ops
turns with her lions at the terrible noise of the thunder, as also do the other Gods and Goddesses,
and Venus in particular, who is at the side of Mars; and Momus, with his arms outstretched,
appears to fear that Heaven may be falling headlong down, and yet he stands motionless. The
Graces, likewise, are standing filled with dread, and beside them, in like manner, the Hours.
All the Deities, in short, are taking to flight with their chariots. The Moon, Saturn, and
Janus are going towards the lightest of the clouds, in order to withdraw from that terrible
uproar and turmoil, and the same does Neptune, who, with his dolphins, appears to be seeking
to support himself on his trident. Pallas, with the nine Muses, stands wondering what horrible
thing this may be, and Pan, embracing a Nymph who is trembling with fear, seems to wish to
save her from the glowing fires and the lightning-flashes with which the heavens are filled.
Apollo stands in the chariot of the sun, and some of the Hours seem to be seeking to restrain
the course of his horses. Bacchus and Silenus, with Satyrs and Nymphs, betray the greatest
terror, and Vulcan, with his ponderous hammer on one shoulder, gazes towards Hercules, who
is speaking of this event with Mercury, beside whom is Pomona all in dismay, as are also Vertumnus
and all the other Gods dispersed throughout that Heaven, in which all the effects of fear are
so well expressed, both in those who are standing and in those who are flying, that it is not
possible, I do not say to see, but even to imagine a more beautiful fantasy in painting than
this one.

In the parts below, that is, on the walls that stand upright, underneath the end of the curve
of the vaulting, are the Giants, some of whom, those below Jove, have upon their backs mountains
and immense rocks which they support with their stout shoulders, in order to pile them up and
thus ascend to Heaven, while their ruin is preparing, for Jove is thundering and the whole
Heaven burning with anger against them; and it appears not only that the Gods are dismayed
by the presumptuous boldness of the Giants, upon whom they are hurling mountains, but that
the whole world is upside down and, as it were, come to its last day. In this part Giulio painted
Briareus in a dark cavern, almost covered with vast fragments of mountains, and the other Giants
all crushed and some dead beneath the ruins of the mountains. Besides this, through an opening
in the darkness of a grotto, which reveals a distant landscape painted with beautiful judgment,
may be seen many Giants flying, all smitten by the thunderbolts of Jove, and, as it were, on
the point of being overwhelmed at that moment by the fragments of the mountains, like the others.
In another part Giulio depicted other Giants, upon whom are falling temples, columns, and other
pieces of buildings, making a vast slaughter and havoc of those proud beings. And in this part,
among those falling fragments of buildings, stands the fireplace of the room, which, when there
is a fire in it, makes it appear as if the Giants are burning, for Pluto is painted there,
flying towards the centre with his chariot drawn by lean horses, and accompanied by the Furies
of Hell; and thus Giulio, not departing from the subject of the story with this invention of
the fire, made a most beautiful adornment for the fireplace.

In this work, moreover, in order to render it the more fearsome and terrible, Giulio represented
the Giants, huge and fantastic in aspect, falling to the earth, smitten in various ways by
the lightnings and thunderbolts; some in the foreground and others in the background, some
dead, others wounded, and others again covered by mountains and the ruins of buildings. Wherefore
let no one ever think to see any work of the brush more horrible and terrifying, or more natural
than this one; and whoever enters that room and sees the windows, doors, and other suchlike
things all awry and, as it were, on the point of falling, and the mountains and buildings hurtling
down, cannot but fear that everything will fall upon him, and, above all, as he sees the Gods
in the Heaven rushing, some here, some there, and all in flight. And what is most marvellous
in the work is to see that the whole of the painting has neither beginning nor end, but is
so well joined and connected together, without any divisions or ornamental partitions, that
the things which are near the buildings appear very large, and those in the distance, where
the landscapes are, go on receding into infinity; whence that room, which is not more than
fifteen braccia in length, has the appearance of open country. Moreover, the pavement being
of small round stones set on edge, and the lower part of the upright walls being painted with
similar stones, there is no sharp angle to be seen, and that level surface has the effect of
a vast expanse, which was executed with much judgment and beautiful art by Giulio, to whom
our craftsmen are much indebted for such inventions.

In this work the above-mentioned Rinaldo Mantovano became a perfect colourist, for he carried
the whole of it into execution after the cartoons of Giulio, as well as the other rooms. And
if this painter had not been snatched from the world so young, even as he did honour to Giulio
during his lifetime, so he would have done honour (to himself) after Giulio's death.

In addition to this palace, in which Giulio executed many other works worthy to be praised,
of which, in order to avoid prolixity, I shall say nothing, he reconstructed with masonry many
rooms in the castle where the Duke lives at Mantua, and made two very large spiral staircases,
with very rich apartments adorned all over with stucco. In one hall he caused the whole of
the story of Troy and the Trojan War to be painted, and likewise twelve scenes in oils in an
antechamber, below the heads of the twelve Emperors previously painted there by Tiziano Vecelli,
which are all held to be excellent. In like manner, at Marmirolo, a place five miles distant
from Mantua, a most commodious building was erected after the design of Giulio and under his
direction, with large paintings no less beautiful than those of the castle and of the palace
of the Tè. The same master painted an altar-piece in oils for the Chapel of Signora Isabella
Buschetta in S. Andrea at Mantua, of Our Lady in the act of adoring the Infant Jesus, who is
lying on the ground, with S. Joseph, the ass and the ox near a manger, and on one side S. John
the Evangelist, and S. Longinus on the other, figures of the size of life. Next, on the walls
of the same chapel, he caused Rinaldo to paint two very beautiful scenes after his own designs;
on one, the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ, with the Thieves, some Angels in the air, and on the
ground the ministers of the Crucifixion and the Maries, with many horses, in which he always
delighted, making them beautiful to a marvel, and many soldiers in various attitudes; and,
on the other, the scene when the Blood of Christ was discovered in the time of the Countess
Matilda, which was a most beautiful work.

Giulio then painted with his own hand for Duke Federigo a picture of Our Lady washing the little
Jesus Christ, who is standing in a basin, while a little S. John is pouring out the water from
a vase. Both of these figures, which are of the size of life, are very beautiful; and in the
distance are small figures, from the waist upwards, of some ladies who are coming to visit
the Madonna. This picture was afterwards presented by the Duke to Signora Isabella Buschetta,
of which lady Giulio subsequently made a most beautiful portrait in a little picture of the
Nativity of Christ, one braccio in height, which is now in the possession of Signor Vespasiano
Gonzaga, together with another picture presented to him by Duke Federigo, and likewise by the
hand of Giulio, in which are a young man and a young woman embracing each other on a bed, in
the act of caressing one another, while an old woman peeps at them secretly from behind a door--figures
which are little less than life-size, and very graceful. In the house of the same person is
another very excellent picture of a most beautiful S. Jerome, also by the hand of Giulio. And
in the possession of Count Niccola Maffei is a picture of Alexander the Great, of the size
of life, with a Victory in his hand, copied from an ancient medal, which is a work of great beauty.

After these works, Giulio painted in fresco over a chimney-piece, for M. Girolamo, the organist
of the Duomo at Mantua, who was very much his friend, a Vulcan who is working his bellows with
one hand and holding with the other, with a pair of tongs, the iron head of an arrow that he
is forging, while Venus is tempering in a vase some already made and placing them in Cupid's
quiver. This is one of the most beautiful works that Giulio ever executed; and there is little
else in fresco by his hand to be seen. For S. Domenico, at the commission of M. Lodovico da
Fermo, he painted an altar-piece of the Dead Christ, whom Joseph and Nicodemus are preparing
to lay in the sepulchre, and near them are His Mother, the other Maries, and S. John the Evangelist.
And a little picture, in which he also painted a Dead Christ, is in the house of the Florentine
Tommaso da Empoli at Venice.

At the same time when he was executing these and other pictures, it happened that Signor Giovanni
de' Medici, having been wounded by a musket-ball, was carried to Mantua, where he died. Whereupon
M. Pietro Aretino, who was the devoted servant of that lord, and very much the friend of Giulio,
desired that Giulio should mould a likeness of him with his own hand as he lay dead; and he,
therefore, having taken a cast from the face of the dead man, executed a portrait from it,
which remained for many years afterwards in the possession of the same Aretino.

For the entry of the Emperor Charles V into Mantua, Giulio, by order of the Duke, made many
most beautiful festive preparations in the form of arches, scenery for dramas, and a number
of other things; in which inventions Giulio had no equal, nor was there ever any man more fanciful
in preparing masquerades and in designing extravagant costumes for jousts, festivals, and tournaments,
as was seen at that time with amazement and marvel by the Emperor Charles and by all who were
present. Besides this, at different times he gave so many designs for chapels, houses, gardens,
and façades throughout the whole of Mantua, and he so delighted to embellish and adorn the
city, that, whereas it was formerly buried in mud and at times full of stinking water and almost
uninhabitable, he brought it to such a condition that at the present day, thanks to his industry,
it is dry, healthy, and altogether pleasing and delightful.

While Giulio was in the service of that Duke, one year the Po, bursting its banks, inundated
Mantua in such a manner, that in certain low-lying parts of the city the water rose to the
height of nearly four braccia, insomuch that for a long time frogs lived in them almost all
the year round. Giulio, therefore, after pondering in what way he might put this right, so
went to work that for the time being the city was restored to its former condition; and to
the end that the same might not happen another time, he contrived to have the streets on that
side raised so much, by command of the Duke, that they came above the level of the water, and
the buildings stood in safety. In that part of the city the houses were small, slightly built,
and of no great importance, and he gave orders that they should be pulled down, in order to
raise the streets and bring that quarter to a better state, and that new houses, larger and
more beautiful, should be built there, to the advantage and improvement of the city. To this
measure many opposed themselves, saying to the Duke that Giulio was doing too much havoc; but
he would not hear any of them--nay, he made Giulio superintendent of the streets at that very
time, and decreed that no one should build in that city save under Giulio's direction. On which
account many complaining and some even threatening Giulio, this came to the ears of the Duke,
who used such words in his favour as made it known that if they did anything to the despite
or injury of Giulio, he would count it as done to himself, and would make an example of them.

The Duke was so enamoured of the excellence of Giulio, that he could not live without him;
and Giulio, on his part, bore to that lord the greatest reverence that it is possible to imagine.
Wherefore he never asked a favour for himself or for others without obtaining it, and when
he died it was found that with all that he had received from the Duke he had an income of more
than a thousand ducats.

Giulio built a house for himself in Mantua, opposite to S. Barnaba, on the outer side of which
he made a fantastic façade, all wrought with coloured stucco, and the interior he caused to
be all painted and wrought likewise with stucco; and he found place in it for many antiquities
brought from Rome and others received from the Duke, to whom he gave many of his own. He made
so many designs both for Mantua and for places in its neighbourhood, that it was a thing incredible;
for, as has been told, no palaces or other buildings of importance could be erected, particularly
in the city, save after his design. He rebuilt upon the old walls the Church of S. Benedetto,
a rich and vast seat of Black Friars at Mantua, near the Po; and the whole church was embellished
with most beautiful paintings and altar-pieces from designs by his hand. And since his works
were very highly prized throughout Lombardy, it pleased Gian Matteo Giberti, Bishop of Verona,
to have the tribune of the Duomo of that city all painted, as has been related in another place,
by Il Moro the Veronese, after designs by Giulio. For the Duke of Ferrara, also, he executed
many designs for tapestries, which were afterwards woven in silk and gold by Maestro Niccolò
and Giovan Battista Rosso, both Flemings; and of these there are engravings to be seen, executed
by Giovan Battista Mantovano, who engraved a vast number of things drawn by Giulio, and in
particular, besides three drawings of battles engraved by others, a physician who is applying
cupping-glasses to the shoulders of a woman, and the Flight of Our Lady into Egypt, with Joseph
holding the ass by the halter, and some Angels bending down a date-palm in order that Christ
may pluck the fruit. The same master engraved, also after the designs of Giulio, the Wolf on
the Tiber suckling Romulus and Remus, and four stories of Pluto, Jove and Neptune, who are
dividing the heavens, the earth, and the sea among them by lot; and likewise the goat Amaltheia,
which, held by Melissa, is giving suck to Jove, and a large plate of many men in a prison,
tortured in various ways. There were also printed, after the inventions of Giulio, Scipio and
Hannibal holding a parley with their armies on the banks of the river; the Nativity of S. John
the Baptist, which was engraved by Sebastiano da Reggio, and many other works engraved and
printed in Italy. In Flanders and in France, likewise, have been printed innumerable sheets
from designs by Giulio, of which, although they are very beautiful, there is no need to make
mention, nor of all his drawings, seeing that he made them, so to speak, in loads. Let it be
enough to say that he was so facile in every field of art, and particularly in drawing, that
we have no record of any one who has produced more than he did.

Giulio, who was very versatile, was able to discourse on every subject, but above all on medals,
upon which he spent large sums of money and much time, in order to gain knowledge of them.
And although he was employed almost always in great works, this did not mean that he would
not set his hand at times to the most trifling matters in order to oblige his patron and his
friends; and no sooner had one opened his mouth to explain to him his conception than he had
understood it and drawn it. Among the many rare things that he had in his house was the portrait
from life of Albrecht Dürer on a piece of fine Rheims cloth, by the hand of Albrecht himself,
who sent it, as has been related in another place, as a present to Raffaello da Urbino. This
portrait was an exquisite thing, for it had been coloured in gouache with much diligence with
water-colours, and Albrecht had executed it without using lead-white, availing himself in its
stead of the white of the cloth, with the delicate threads of which he had so well rendered
the hairs of the beard, that it was a thing scarcely possible to imagine, much less to do;
and when held up to the light it showed through on either side. This portrait, which was very
dear to Giulio, he showed to me himself as a miracle, when I went during his lifetime to Mantua
on some affairs of my own.

At the death of Duke Federigo, by whom Giulio had been beloved beyond belief, he was so overcome
with sorrow, that he would have left Mantua, if the Cardinal, the brother of the Duke, on whom
the government of the State had descended because the sons of Federigo were very young, had
not detained him in that city, where he had a wife and children, houses, villas, and all the
other possessions that are proper to a gentleman of means. And this the Cardinal did (aided
by those reasons) from a wish to avail himself of the advice and assistance of Giulio in renovating,
or rather building almost entirely anew, the Duomo of that city; to which work Giulio set his
hand, and carried it well on in a very beautiful form.

At this time Giorgio Vasari, who was much the friend of Giulio, although they did not know
one another save only by reputation and by letters, in going to Venice, took the road by Mantua,
in order to see Giulio and his works. And so, having arrived in that city, and going to find
his friend, when they met, although they had never seen each other, they knew one another no
less surely than if they had been together in person a thousand times. At which Giulio was
so filled with joy and contentment, that for four days he never left him, showing him all his
works, and in particular all the ground-plans of the ancient edifices in Rome, Naples, Pozzuolo,
and Campania, and of all the other fine antiquities of which anything is known, drawn partly
by him and partly by others. Then, opening a very large press, he showed to Giorgio the ground-plans
of all the buildings that had been erected after his designs and under his direction, not only
in Mantua and in Rome, but throughout all Lombardy, which were so beautiful, that I, for my
part, do not believe that there are to be seen any architectural inventions more original,
more lovely, or better composed. After this, the Cardinal asking Giorgio what he thought of
the works of Giulio, Giorgio answered in the presence of Giulio that they were such that he
deserved to have a statue of himself placed at every corner of the city, and that, since he
had given that city a new life, the half of the State would not be a sufficient reward for
the labours and abilities of Giulio; to which the Cardinal answered that Giulio was more the
master of that State than he was himself. And since Giulio was very loving, especially towards
his friends, there was no mark of love and affection that Giorgio did not receive from him.
The same Vasari, having left Mantua and gone to Venice, returned to Rome at the very time when
Michelagnolo had just uncovered his Last Judgment in the Chapel; and he sent to Giulio by M.
Nino Nini of Cortona, the secretary of the aforesaid Cardinal of Mantua, three sheets containing
the Seven Mortal Sins, copied from that Last Judgment of Michelagnolo, which were welcome in
no ordinary manner to Giulio, both as being what they were, and because he had at that time
to paint a chapel in the palace for the Cardinal, and they served to inspire him to greater
things than those that he had in mind. Putting forward all possible effort, therefore, to make
a most beautiful cartoon, he drew in it with fine fancy the scene of Peter and Andrew leaving
their nets at the call of Christ, in order to follow Him, and to be thenceforward, not fishers
of fishes, but fishers of men. And this cartoon, which proved to be the most beautiful that
Giulio had ever made, was afterwards carried into execution by the painter Fermo Ghisoni, a
pupil of Giulio, and now an excellent master.

Not long afterwards the superintendents of the building of S. Petronio at Bologna, being desirous
to make a beginning with the façade of that church, succeeded after great difficulty in inducing
Giulio to go there, in company with a Milanese architect called Tofano Lombardino, a man in
great repute at that time in Lombardy for the many buildings by his hand that were to be seen
in that country. These masters, then, made many designs, those of Baldassarre Peruzzi of Siena
having been lost; and one that Giulio made, among others, was so beautiful and so well ordered,
that he rightly received very great praise for it from that people, and was rewarded with most
liberal gifts on his return to Mantua.

Meanwhile, Antonio da San Gallo having died at Rome about that time, the superintendents of
the building of S. Pietro had been thereby left in no little embarrassment, not knowing to
whom to turn or on whom to lay the charge of carrying that great fabric to completion after
the plan already begun; but they thought that no one could be more fitted for this than Giulio
Romano, for they all knew how great were his worth and excellence. And so, surmising that he
would accept such a charge more than willingly in order to repatriate himself in an honourable
manner and with a good salary, they caused some of his friends to approach him, but in vain,
for the reason that, although he would have gone with the greatest willingness, two things
prevented him--the Cardinal would in no way consent to his departure, and his wife, with her
relatives and friends, used every possible means to dissuade him. Neither of these two reasons,
perchance, would have prevailed with him, if he had not happened to be in somewhat feeble health
at that time; for, having considered how much honour and profit he might secure for himself
and his children by accepting so handsome a proposal, he was already fully disposed to make
every effort not to be hindered in the matter by the Cardinal, when his malady began to grow
worse. However, since it had been ordained on high that he should go no more to Rome, and that
this should be the end and conclusion of his life, in a few days, what with his vexation and
his malady, he died at Mantua, which city might well have allowed him, even as he had embellished
her, so also to honour and adorn his native city of Rome.

Giulio died at the age of fifty-four, leaving only one male child, to whom he had given the
name of Raffaello out of regard for the memory of his master. This young Raffaello had scarcely
learned the first rudiments of art, showing signs of being destined to become an able master,
when he also died, not many years after, together with his mother, Giulio's wife; wherefore
there remained no descendant of Giulio save a daughter called Virginia, who still lives in
Mantua, married to Ercole Malatesta. Giulio, whose death was an infinite grief to all who knew
him, was given burial in S. Barnaba, where it was proposed that some honourable memorial should
be erected to him; but his wife and children, postponing the matter from one day to another,
themselves died for the most part without doing anything. It is indeed a sad thing that there
has been no one who has treasured in any way the memory of a man who did so much to adorn that
city, save only those who availed themselves of his services, who have often remembered him
in their necessities. But his own talent, which did him so much honour in his lifetime, has
secured for him after death, in the form of his own works, an everlasting monument which time,
with all its years, can never destroy.

Giulio was neither tall nor short of stature, and rather stout than slight in build. He had
black hair, beautiful features, and eyes dark and merry, and he was very loving, regular in
all his actions, and frugal in eating, but fond of dressing and living in honourable fashion.
He had disciples in plenty, but the best were Giovanni da Lione, Raffaello dal Colle of Borgo,
Benedetto Pagni of Pescia, Figurino da Faenza, Rinaldo Mantovano, Giovan Battista Mantovano,
and Fermo Ghisoni, who still lives in Mantua and does him honour, being an excellent painter.
And the same may be said for Benedetto, who has executed many works in his native city of Pescia,
and an altar-piece for the Duomo of Pisa, which is in the Office of Works, and also a picture
of Our Lady in which, with a poetical invention full of grace and beauty, he painted a figure
of Florence presenting to her the dignities of the House of Medici; which picture is now in
the possession of Signor Mondragone, a Spaniard much in favour with that most illustrious lord
the Prince of Florence.

Giulio died on the day of All Saints in the year 1546, and over his tomb was placed the following
epitaph:

  ROMANUS MORIENS SECUM TRES JULIUS ARTES
    ABSTULIT, HAUD MIRUM, QUATUOR UNUS ERAT.

FOOTNOTE:

[26] Giuliano Leno.

FRA SEBASTIANO VINIZIANO DEL PIOMBO

LIFE OF FRA SEBASTIANO VINIZIANO DEL PIOMBO

PAINTER

The first profession of Sebastiano, so many declare, was not painting, but music, since, besides
being a singer, he much delighted to play various kinds of instruments, and particularly the
lute, because on that instrument all the parts can be played, without any accompaniment. This
art made him for a time very dear to the gentlemen of Venice, with whom, as a man of talent,
he always associated on intimate terms. Then, having been seized while still young with a desire
to give his attention to painting, he learned the first rudiments from Giovanni Bellini, at
that time an old man. And afterwards, when Giorgione da Castelfranco had established in that
city the methods of the modern manner, with its superior harmony and its brilliancy of colouring,
Sebastiano left Giovanni and placed himself under Giorgione, with whom he stayed so long that
in great measure he acquired his manner. He thus executed in Venice some portraits from life
that were very like; among others, that of the Frenchman Verdelotto, a most excellent musician,
who was then chapel-master in S. Marco, and in the same picture that of his companion Uberto,
a singer, which picture Verdelotto took with him to Florence when he became chapel-master in
S. Giovanni; and at the present day the sculptor Francesco da San Gallo has it in his house.
About that time he also painted for S. Giovanni Grisostomo at Venice an altar-piece with some
figures which incline so much to the manner of Giorgione, that they have been sometimes held
by people without much knowledge of the matters of art to be by the hand of Giorgione himself.
This altar-piece is very beautiful, and executed with such a manner of colouring that it has
great relief.

The fame of the abilities of Sebastiano thus spreading abroad, Agostino Chigi of Siena, a very
rich merchant, who had many affairs in Venice, hearing him much praised in Rome, sought to
draw him to that city, being attracted towards him because, besides his painting, he knew so
well how to play on the lute, and was sweet and pleasant in his conversation. Nor was it very
difficult to draw Sebastiano to Rome, since he knew how much that place had always been the
benefactress and common mother-city of all beautiful intellects, and he went thither with no
ordinary willingness. Having therefore gone to Rome, Agostino set him to work, and the first
thing that he caused him to do was to paint the little arches that are over the loggia which
looks into the garden of Agostino's palace in the Trastevere, where Baldassarre of Siena had
painted all the vaulting, on which little arches Sebastiano painted some poetical compositions
in the manner that he had brought from Venice, which was very different from that which was
followed in Rome by the able painters of that day. After this work, Raffaello having executed
a story of Galatea in the same place, Sebastiano, at the desire of Agostino, painted beside
it a Polyphemus in fresco, in which, spurred by rivalry with Baldassarre of Siena and then
with Raffaello, he strove his utmost to surpass himself, whatever may have been the result.
He likewise painted some works in oils, for which, from his having learned from Giorgione a
method of colouring of no little softness, he was held in vast account at Rome.

While Sebastiano was executing these works in Rome, Raffaello da Urbino had risen into such
credit as a painter, that his friends and adherents said that his pictures were more in accord
with the rules of painting than those of Michelagnolo, being pleasing in colour, beautiful
in invention, and charming in the expressions, with design in keeping with the rest; and that
those of Buonarroti had none of those qualities, with the exception of the design. And for
such reasons these admirers judged that in the whole field of painting Raffaello was, if not
more excellent than Michelagnolo, at least his equal; but in colouring they would have it that
he surpassed Buonarroti without a doubt. These humours, having spread among a number of craftsmen
who preferred the grace of Raffaello to the profundity of Michelagnolo, had so increased that
many, for various reasons of interest, were more favourable in their judgments to Raffaello
than to Michelagnolo. But Sebastiano was in no way a follower of that faction, since, being
a man of exquisite judgment, he knew the value of each of the two to perfection. The mind of
Michelagnolo, therefore, drew towards Sebastiano, whose colouring and grace pleased him much,
and he took him under his protection, thinking that, if he were to assist Sebastiano in design,
he would be able by this means, without working himself, to confound those who held such an
opinion, remaining under cover of a third person as judge to decide which of them was the best.

While the matter stood thus, and some works that Sebastiano had executed were being much extolled,
and even exalted to infinite heights on account of the praise that Michelagnolo bestowed on
them, besides the fact that they were in themselves beautiful and worthy of praise, a certain
person from Viterbo, I know not who, much in favour with the Pope, commissioned Sebastiano
to paint a Dead Christ, with a Madonna who is weeping over Him, for a chapel that he had caused
to be built in S. Francesco at Viterbo. That work was held by all who saw it to be truly most
beautiful, for the invention and the cartoon were by Michelagnolo, although it was finished
with great diligence by Sebastiano, who painted in it a dark landscape that was much extolled,
and thereby Sebastiano acquired very great credit, and confirmed the opinions of those who
favoured him. Wherefore Pier Francesco Borgherini, a Florentine merchant, who had taken over
a chapel in S. Pietro in Montorio, which is on the right as one enters the church, allotted
it at the suggestion of Michelagnolo to Sebastiano, because Borgherini thought that Michelagnolo
would execute the design of the whole work, as indeed he did. Sebastiano, therefore, having
set to work, executed it with such zeal and diligence, that it was held to be, as it is, a
very beautiful piece of painting. From the small design by Michelagnolo he made some larger
ones for his own convenience, and one of these, a very beautiful thing, which he drew with
his own hand, is in our book. Thinking that he had discovered the true method of painting in
oils on walls, Sebastiano covered the rough-cast of that chapel with an incrustation which
seemed to him likely to be suitable for this purpose; and the whole of that part in which is
Christ being scourged at the Column he executed in oils on the wall. Nor must I omit to tell
that many believe not only that Michelagnolo made the small design for this work, but also
that the above-mentioned Christ who is being scourged at the Column was outlined by him, for
there is a vast difference between the excellence of this figure and that of the others. Even
if Sebastiano had executed no other work but this, for it alone he would deserve to be praised
to all eternity, seeing that, in addition to the heads, which are very well painted, there
are in the work some hands and feet of great beauty; and although his manner was a little hard,
on account of the labour that he endured in the things that he counterfeited, nevertheless
he can be numbered among the good and praiseworthy craftsmen. Above this scene he painted two
Prophets in fresco, and on the vaulting the Transfiguration; and the two Saints, S. Peter and
S. Francis, who are on either side of the scene below, are very bold and animated figures.
It is true that he laboured for six years over this little work, but when works are executed
to perfection, one should not consider whether they have been finished quickly or slowly, although
more praise is due to him who carries his labours to completion both quickly and well; and
he who pleads haste as an excuse when his works do not give satisfaction, unless he has been
forced to it, is accusing rather than excusing himself. When this work was uncovered, it was
seen that Sebastiano had done well, although he had toiled much over painting it, so that the
evil tongues were silenced and there were few who found fault with him.

After this, when Raffaello painted for Cardinal de' Medici, for sending to France, that altar-piece
containing the Transfiguration of Christ which was placed after his death on the principal
altar of S. Pietro a Montorio, Sebastiano also executed at the same time another altar-piece
of the same size, as it were in competition with Raffaello, of Lazarus being raised from the
dead four days after death, which was counterfeited and painted with supreme diligence under
the direction of Michelagnolo, and in some parts from his design. These altar-pieces, when
finished, were publicly exhibited together in the Consistory, and were vastly extolled, both
the one and the other; and although the works of Raffaello had no equals in their perfect grace
and beauty, nevertheless the labours of Sebastiano were also praised by all without exception.
One of these pictures was sent by Cardinal Giulio de' Medici to his episcopal palace at Narbonne
in France, and the other was placed in the Cancelleria, where it remained until it was taken
to S. Pietro a Montorio, together with the ornamental frame that Giovan Barile executed for
it. By means of this work Sebastiano became closely connected with the Cardinal, and was therefore
honourably rewarded during his pontificate.

Not long afterwards, Raffaello having passed away, the first place in the art of painting was
unanimously granted by all, thanks to the favour of Michelagnolo, to Sebastiano, and Giulio
Romano, Giovan Francesco of Florence, Perino del Vaga, Polidoro, Maturino, Baldassarre of Siena,
and all the others had to give way. Wherefore Agostino Chigi, who had been having a chapel
and tomb built for himself under the direction of Raffaello in S. Maria del Popolo, came to
an agreement with Sebastiano that he should paint it all; whereupon the screen was made, but
the chapel remained covered, without ever being seen by anyone, until the year 1554, at which
time Luigi, the son of Agostino, resolved that, although his father had not been able to see
it finished, he at least would do so. And so, the chapel and the altar-piece being entrusted
to Francesco Salviati, he carried the work in a short time to that perfection which it had
not received from the dilatory and irresolute Sebastiano, who, so far as one can see, did little
work there, although we find that he obtained from the liberality of Agostino and his heirs
much more than would have been due to him even if he had finished it completely, which he did
not do, either because he was weary of the labours of art, or because he was too much wrapped
up in comforts and pleasures. And he did the same to M. Filippo da Siena, Clerk of the Chamber,
for whom he began a scene in oils on the wall above the high-altar of the Pace at Rome, and
never finished it; wherefore the friars, in despair about it, were obliged to take away the
staging, which obstructed their church, to cover the work with a cloth, and to have patience
for as long as the life of Sebastiano lasted. After his death, the friars uncovered the work,
and it was found that what he had done was most beautiful painting, for the reason that in
the part where he represented Our Lady visiting S. Elizabeth, there are many women portrayed
from life that are very beautiful, and painted with consummate grace. But it may be seen here
that this man endured extraordinary labour in all the works that he produced, and that he was
not able to execute them with that facility which nature and study are wont at times to give
to him who delights in working and exercises his hand continually. And of the truth of this
there is also a proof in the same Pace, in the Chapel of Agostino Chigi, where Raffaello had
executed the Sibyls and Prophets; for Sebastiano, wishing to paint some things on the stone
in the niche that remained to be painted below, in order to surpass Raffaello, caused it to
be incrusted with peperino-stone, the joinings being filled in with fired stucco; but he spent
so much time on cogitations that he left the wall bare, for, after it had remained thus for
ten years, he died.

It is true that a few portraits from life could be obtained with ease from Sebastiano, because
he could finish these with more facility and promptitude; but it was quite otherwise with stories
and other figures. To tell the truth, the painting of portraits from life was his proper vocation,
as may be seen from the portrait of Marc' Antonio Colonna, which is so well executed that it
seems to be alive, and also from those of Ferdinando, Marquis of Pescara, and of Signora Vittoria
Colonna, which are very beautiful. He likewise made a portrait of Adrian VI when he first arrived
in Rome, and one of Cardinal Hincfort. That Cardinal desired that Sebastiano should paint for
him a chapel in S. Maria de Anima at Rome; but he kept putting him off from one day to another,
and the Cardinal finally had it painted by the Fleming Michael, his compatriot, who painted
there in fresco stories from the life of S. Barbara, imitating our Italian manner very well;
and in the altar-piece he made a portrait of the same Cardinal.

But returning to Sebastiano: he also took a portrait of Signor Federigo da Bozzolo, and one
of a captain in armour, I know not who, which is in the possession of Giulio de' Nobili at
Florence. He painted a woman in Roman dress, which is in the house of Luca Torrigiani; and
Giovan Battista Cavalcanti has a head by the same master's hand, which is not completely finished.
He executed a picture of Our Lady covering the Child with a piece of drapery, which was a rare
work; and Cardinal Farnese now has it in his guardaroba. And he sketched, but did not carry
to completion, a very beautiful altar-piece of S. Michael standing over a large figure of the
Devil, which was to be sent to the King of France, who had previously received a picture by
the hand of the same master. And in the meantime, while living in these high hopes, Sebastiano,
who had no equal in portrait-painting, executed many from life, and among others one of Pope
Clement, who was not then wearing a beard, or rather, two of him, one of which came into the
possession of the Bishop of Vasona, and the other, which is much larger, showing a seated figure
from the knees upwards, is in the house of Sebastiano at Rome. He also painted a portrait of
the Florentine Anton Francesco degli Albizzi, who happened to be then in Rome on some business,
and he made it such that it appeared to be not painted but really alive; wherefore Anton Francesco
sent it to Florence as a pearl of great price. The head and hands of this portrait were things
truly marvellous, to say nothing of the beautiful execution of the velvets, the linings, the
satins, and all the other parts of the picture; and since Sebastiano was indeed superior to
all other men in the perfect delicacy and excellence of his portrait-painting, all Florence
was amazed at this portrait of Anton Francesco.

At this same time he also executed a portrait of Messer Pietro Aretino, and made it such that,
besides being a good likeness, it is an astounding piece of painting, for there may be seen
in it five or six different kinds of black in the clothes that he is wearing--velvet, satin,
ormuzine, damask, and cloth--and, over and above those blacks, a beard of the deepest black,
painted in such beautiful detail, that the real beard could not be more natural. This figure
holds in the hand a branch of laurel and a scroll, on which is written the name of Clement
VII; and in front are two masks, one of Virtue, which is beautiful, and another of Vice, which
is hideous. This picture M. Pietro presented to his native city, and the people of Arezzo have
placed it in their public Council Chamber, thus doing honour to the memory of their talented
fellow-citizen, and also receiving no less from him. After this, Sebastiano made a portrait
of Andrea Doria, which was in like manner an admirable work, and a head of the Florentine Baccio
Valori, which was also beautiful beyond belief.

In the meantime Fra Mariano Fetti, Friar of the Piombo, died, and Sebastiano, remembering the
promises made to him by the above-mentioned Bishop of Vasona, master of the household to His
Holiness, asked for the office of the Piombo; whereupon, although Giovanni da Udine, who had
also done much in the service of His Holiness "in minoribus," and still continued to serve
him, asked for the same office, the Pope, moved by the prayers of the Bishop, and also thinking
that the talents of Sebastiano deserved it, ordained that Sebastiano should have the office,
but should pay out of it to Giovanni da Udine an allowance of three hundred crowns. Thus Sebastiano
assumed the friar's habit, and straightway felt his soul changed thereby, for, perceiving that
he now had the means to satisfy his desires, he spent his time in repose without touching a
brush, and recompensed himself with his comforts and his revenues for many misspent nights
and laborious days; and whenever he happened to have something to do, he would drag himself
to the work with such reluctance, that he might have been going to his death. From which one
may learn how much our reason and the little wisdom of men are deceived, in that very often,
nay, almost always, we covet the very opposite to that which we really need, and, as the Tuscan
proverb has it, in thinking to cross ourselves with a finger, poke it into our own eyes. It
is the common opinion of men that rewards and honours spur the minds of mortals to the studies
of those arts which they see to be the best remunerated, and that, on the contrary, to see
that those who labour at these arts are not recompensed by such men as have the means, causes
the same students to grow negligent and to abandon them. And for this reason both ancients
and moderns censure as strongly as they are able those Princes who do not support every kind
of man of talent, and who do not give due honour and reward to all who labour valiantly in
the arts. But, although this rule is for the most part a good one, it may be seen, nevertheless,
that at times the liberality of just and magnanimous Princes produces the contrary effect,
for the reason that many are more useful and helpful to the world in a low or mediocre condition
than they are when raised to greatness and to an abundance of all good things. And here we
have an example, for the magnificent liberality of Clement VII, bestowing too rich a reward
on Sebastiano Viniziano, who had done excellent work as a painter in his service, was the reason
that he changed from a zealous and industrious craftsman into one most idle and negligent,
and that, whereas he laboured continually while he was living in poor circumstances and the
rivalry between him and Raffaello da Urbino lasted, he did quite the opposite when he had enough
for his contentment.

Be this as it may, let us leave it to the judgment of wise Princes to consider how, when, towards
whom, in what manner, and by what rule, they should exercise their liberality in the case of
craftsmen and men of talent, and let us return to Sebastiano. After he had been made Friar
of the Piombo, he executed for the Patriarch of Aquileia, with great labour, Christ bearing
the Cross, a half-length figure painted on stone--a work which was much extolled, particularly
for the head and the hands, parts in which Sebastiano was truly most excellent. Not long afterwards
the niece of the Pope, who in time became Queen of France, as she still is, having arrived
in Rome, Fra Sebastiano began a portrait of her; but this remained unfinished in the guardaroba
of the Pope. And a short time after this, Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici having become enamoured
of Signora Giulia Gonzaga, who was then living at Fondi, that Cardinal sent Sebastiano to that
place, accompanied by four light horsemen, to take her portrait; and within a month he finished
that portrait, which, being taken from the celestial beauty of that lady by a hand so masterly,
proved to be a divine picture. Wherefore, after it had been carried to Rome, the labours of
that craftsman were richly rewarded by the Cardinal, who declared that this portrait surpassed
by a great measure all those that Sebastiano had ever executed up to that day, as indeed it
did; and the work was afterwards sent to King Francis of France, who had it placed in his Palace
of Fontainebleau.

This painter then introduced a new method of painting on stone, which pleased people greatly,
for it appeared that by this means pictures could be made eternal, and such that neither fire
nor worms could harm them. Wherefore he began to paint many pictures on stone in this manner,
surrounding them with ornaments of variegated kinds of stone, which, being polished, formed
a very beautiful setting; although it is true that these pictures, with their ornaments, when
finished, could not be transported or even moved, on account of their great weight, save with
the greatest difficulty. Many persons, then, attracted by the novelty of the work and by the
beauty of his art, gave him earnest-money, in order that he might execute some for them; but
he, delighting more to talk about such pictures than to work at them, always kept delaying
everything. Nevertheless he executed on stone a Dead Christ with the Madonna, with an ornament
also of stone, for Don Ferrante Gonzaga, who sent it to Spain. The whole work together was
held to be very beautiful, and Sebastiano was paid five hundred crowns for the painting by
Messer Niccolò da Cortona, agent in Rome for the Cardinal of Mantua. In this kind of painting
Sebastiano was truly worthy of praise, for the reason that whereas Domenico, his compatriot,
who was the first to paint in oils on walls, and after him Andrea dal Castagno, Antonio Pollaiuolo,
and Piero Pollaiuolo, failed to find the means of preventing the figures executed by them in
this manner from becoming black and fading away very quickly, Sebastiano did find it; wherefore
the Christ at the Column, which he painted in S. Pietro in Montorio, has never changed down
to our own time, and has the same freshness of colouring as on the first day. For he went about
the work with such diligence that he used to make the coarse rough-cast of lime with a mixture
of mastic and colophony, which, after melting it all together over the fire and applying it
to the wall, he would then cause to be smoothed over with a mason's trowel made red-hot, or
rather white-hot, in the fire; and his works have therefore been able to resist the damp and
to preserve their colour very well without suffering any change. With the same mixture he worked
on peperino-stone, white and variegated marble, porphyry, and slabs of other very hard kinds
of stone, materials on which paintings can last a very long time; not to mention that this
has shown how one may paint on silver, copper, tin, and other metals.

This man found so much pleasure in cogitating and discoursing, that he would spend whole days
without working; and when he did force himself to work, it was evident that he was suffering
greatly in his mind, which was the chief reason that he was of the opinion that no price was
large enough to pay for his works. For Cardinal Rangoni he painted a picture of a nude and
very beautiful S. Agatha being tortured in the breasts, which was an exquisite work, and this
picture is now in the guardaroba of Signor Guidobaldo, Duke of Urbino, and is in no way inferior
to the many other most beautiful pictures that are there, by the hands of Raffaello da Urbino,
Tiziano, and others. He also made a portrait from life of Signor Piero Gonzaga, painted in
oils on stone, which was a very fine work; but he toiled for three years over finishing it.

Now, when Michelagnolo was in Florence in the time of Pope Clement, engaged in the work of
the new Sacristy of S. Lorenzo, Giuliano Bugiardini wished to paint for Baccio Valori a picture
with the head of Pope Clement and that of Baccio himself, and another for Messer Ottaviano
de' Medici of the same Pontiff and the Archbishop of Capua. Michelagnolo therefore sent to
Sebastiano to ask him to despatch from Rome a head of the Pope painted in oils with his own
hand; and Sebastiano painted one, which proved to be very beautiful, and sent it to him. After
Giuliano had made use of the head and had finished his pictures, Michelagnolo, who was a close
companion of the said Messer Ottaviano, made him a present of it; and of a truth, among the
many heads that Fra Sebastiano executed, this is the most beautiful of all and the best likeness,
as may be seen in the house of the heirs of Messer Ottaviano. The same master also took the
portrait of Pope Paul Farnese, as soon as he was elected Supreme Pontiff; and he began one
of the Duke of Castro, his son, but left it unfinished, as he did with many other works with
which he had made a beginning.

Fra Sebastiano had a passing good house which he had built for himself near the Popolo, and
there he lived in the greatest contentment, without troubling to paint or work any more. He
used often to say that it was a great fatigue to have to restrain in old age those ardours
which in youth craftsmen are wont to welcome out of emulation and a desire for profit and honour,
and that it was no less wise for a man to live in peace than to spend his days in restless
labour in order to leave a name behind him after death, for all his works and labours had also
in the end, sooner or later, to die. And even as he said these things, so he carried them into
practice as well as he was able, for he always sought to have for his table all the best wines
and the rarest luxuries that could be found, holding life in more account than art. Being much
the friend of all men of talent, he often had Molza and Messer Gandolfo to supper, making right
good cheer. He was also the intimate friend of Messer Francesco Berni, the Florentine, who
wrote a poem to him; to which Fra Sebastiano answered with another, passing well, for, being
very versatile, he was even able to set his hand to writing humorous Tuscan verse.

Having been reproached by certain persons, who said that it was shameful that he would no longer
work now that he had the means to live, Fra Sebastiano replied in this manner: "Why will I
not work now that I have the means to live? Because there are now in the world men of genius
who do in two months what I used to do in two years; and I believe that if I live long enough,
and not so long, either, I shall find that everything has been painted. And since these stalwarts
can do so much, it is well that there should also be one who does nothing, to the end that
they may have the more to do." With these and similar pleasantries Fra Sebastiano was always
diverting himself, being a man who was never anything but humorous and amusing; and, in truth,
a better companion never lived.

Sebastiano, as has been related, was much beloved by Michelagnolo. But it is also true that
when the front wall of the Papal Chapel, where there is now the Last Judgment by the same Buonarroti,
was to be painted, there did arise some disdain between them, for Fra Sebastiano had persuaded
the Pope that he should make Michelagnolo paint it in oils, whereas the latter would only do
it in fresco. Now, Michelagnolo saying neither yea nor nay, the wall was prepared after the
fashion of Fra Sebastiano, and Michelagnolo stood thus for some months without setting his
hand to the work. But at last, after being pressed, he said that he would only do it in fresco,
and that painting in oils was an art for women and for leisurely and idle people like Fra Sebastiano.
And so, after the incrustation laid on by order of the friar had been stripped off, and the
whole surface had been covered with rough-cast in a manner suitable for working in fresco,
Michelagnolo set his hand to the work; but he never forgot the affront that he considered himself
to have received from Fra Sebastiano, against whom he felt hatred almost to the day of the
friar's death.

Finally, after Fra Sebastiano had come to such a state that he would not work or do any other
thing but attend to the duties of his office as Friar of the Piombo, and enjoy the pleasures
of life, at the age of sixty-two he fell sick of a most acute fever, which, being a ruddy person
and of a full habit of body, threw him into such a heat that he rendered up his soul to God
in a few days, after making a will and directing that his body should be carried to the tomb
without any ceremony of priests or friars, or expenditure on lights, and that all that would
have been spent thus should be distributed to poor persons, for the love of God; and so it
was done. He was buried in the Church of the Popolo, in the month of June of the year 1547.
Art suffered no great loss in his death, seeing that, as soon as he assumed the habit of Friar
of the Piombo, he might have been numbered among those lost to her; although it is true that
he was regretted for his pleasant conversation by many friends as well as craftsmen.

Many young men worked under Sebastiano at various times in order to learn art, but they made
little proficience, for from his example they learned little but the art of good living, excepting
only Tommaso Laureti, a Sicilian, who, besides many other works, has executed a picture full
of grace at Bologna, of a very beautiful Venus, with Love embracing and kissing her, which
picture is in the house of M. Francesco Bolognetti. He has also painted a portrait of Signor
Bernardino Savelli, which is much extolled, and some other works of which there is no need
to make mention.

PERINO DEL VAGA

LIFE OF PERINO DEL VAGA

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

A truly great gift is art, who, paying no regard to abundance of riches, to high estate, or
to nobility of blood, embraces, protects, and uplifts from the ground a child of poverty much
more often than one wrapped in the ease of wealth. And this Heaven does in order to show how
much power the influences of its stars and constellations have over us, distributing more of
its favours to one, and to another less; which influences are for the most part the reason
that we mortals come to be born with dispositions more or less fiery or sluggish, weak or strong,
fierce or gentle, fortunate or unfortunate, and richer or poorer in talent. And whoever has
any doubt of this, will be enlightened in this present Life of Perino del Vaga, a painter of
great excellence and genius.

This Perino, the son of a poor father, having been left an orphan as a little child and abandoned
by his relatives, was guided and governed by art, whom he always acknowledged as his true mother
and honoured without ceasing. And the studies of the art of painting were pursued by him with
such zeal and diligence, that he was enabled in due time to execute those noble and famous
decorations which have brought so much glory to Genoa and to Prince Doria. Wherefore we may
believe without a doubt that it is Heaven that raises men from those infinite depths in which
they were born, to that summit of greatness to which they ascend, when they prove by labouring
valiantly at their works that they are true followers of the sciences that they have chosen
to learn; even as Perino chose and pursued as his vocation the art of design, in which he proved
himself full of grace and most excellent, or rather, absolutely perfect. And he not only equalled
the ancients in stucco-work, but also equalled the best modern craftsmen in the whole field
of painting, displaying all the excellence that could possibly be desired in a human intellect
that seeks, in solving the difficulties of that art, to achieve beauty, grace, charm, and delicacy
with colouring and with every other kind of ornament.

But let us speak more particularly of his origin. There lived in the city of Florence one Giovanni
Buonaccorsi, who entered the service of Charles VIII, King of France, and fought in his wars,
and, being a spirited and open-handed young man, spent all that he possessed in that service
and in gaming, and finally lost his life therein. To him was born a son, who received the name
of Piero; and this son, after being left as an infant of two months old without his mother,
who died of plague, was reared in the greatest misery at a farm, being suckled by a goat, until
his father, having gone to Bologna, took as his second wife a woman whose husband and children
had died of plague; and she, with her plague-infected milk, finished nursing Piero, who was
now called Pierino[27] (a pet name such as it is a general custom to give to little children),
and retained that name ever afterwards. He was then taken to Florence by his father, who, on
returning to France, left him with some relatives; and they, either because they had not the
means, or because they would not accept the burdensome charge of maintaining him and having
him taught some ingenious vocation, placed him with the apothecary of the Pinadoro, to the
end that he might learn that calling. But, not liking that profession, he was taken as shop-boy
by the painter Andrea de' Ceri, who was pleased with the air and the ways of Perino, and thought
that he saw in him a certain lively spirit of intelligence from which it might be hoped that
in time some good fruits would issue from him. Andrea was no great painter; quite commonplace,
indeed, and one of those who stand openly and publicly in their workshops, executing any kind
of work, however mean; and he was wont to paint every year for the festival of S. John certain
wax tapers which were carried as offerings, as they still are, together with the other tributes
of the city; for which reason he was called Andrea de' Ceri, and from that name Perino was
afterwards called for some time Perino de' Ceri.

Andrea, then, took care of Perino for some years, teaching him the rudiments of art as well
as he could; but when the boy had reached the age of eleven, he was forced to seek for him
some master better than himself. And so, having a straight friendship with Ridolfo, the son
of Domenico Ghirlandajo, who, as will be related, was held to be able and well practised in
painting, Andrea de' Ceri placed Perino with him, to the end that he might give his attention
to design, and strive with all the zeal and love at his command to make in that art the proficience
of which his great genius gave promise. Whereupon, pursuing his studies, among the many young
men whom Ridolfo had in his workshop, all engaged in learning art, in a short time Perino came
to surpass all the rest, so great were his ardour and his eagerness. Among them was one named
Toto del Nunziata, who was to him as a spur to urge him on continually; which Toto, likewise
attaining in time to equality with the finest intellects, departed from Florence and made his
way with some Florentine merchants to England, where he executed all his works, and was very
richly rewarded by the King of that country, whom he also served in architecture, erecting,
in particular, his principal palace. He and Perino, then, working in emulation of one another,
and pursuing the studies of art with supreme diligence, after no long time became very excellent.
And Perino, drawing from the cartoon of Michelagnolo Buonarroti in company with other young
men, both Florentines and strangers, won and held the first place among them all, insomuch
that he was regarded with that expectation which was afterwards fulfilled in the beautiful
works that he executed with so much excellence and art.

There came to Florence at that time the Florentine painter Vaga, a master of no great excellence,
who was executing commonplace works at Toscanella in the province of Rome. Having a superabundance
of work, he was in need of assistance, and he desired to take back with him a companion and
also a young man who might help him in design, in which he was wanting, and in the other matters
of art. Now this painter, having seen Perino drawing in the workshop of Ridolfo together with
the other young men, found him so superior to them all, that he was astonished; and, what is
more, he was pleased with his appearance and his ways, for Perino was a very beautiful youth,
most courteous, modest, and gentle, and every part of his body was in keeping with the nobility
of his mind; wherefore Vaga was so charmed with him, that he asked him whether he would go
with him to Rome, saying that he would not fail to assist him in his studies, and promising
him such benefits and conditions as he might demand. So great was the desire that Perino had
to attain to excellence in his profession, that, when he heard Rome mentioned, through his
eagerness to see that city, he was deeply moved; but he told him that he must speak to Andrea
de' Ceri, who had supported him up to that time, so that he was loth to abandon him. And so
Vaga, having persuaded Ridolfo, Perino's master, and Andrea, who maintained him, so contrived
that in the end he took Perino, with the companion, to Toscanella. There Perino began to work
and to assist them, and they finished not only the work that Vaga had undertaken, but also
many that they undertook afterwards. But Perino complained that the promise of seeing Rome,
by which he had been brought from Florence, was not being fulfilled, in consequence of the
profit and advantage that Vaga was drawing from his services, and he resolved to go thither
by himself; which was the reason that Vaga, leaving all his works, took him to Rome. And there,
through the love that he bore to art, Perino returned to his former work of drawing and continued
at it many weeks, growing more ardent every day. But Vaga wished to return to Toscanella, and
therefore made him known, as one belonging to himself, to many commonplace painters, and also
recommended him to all the friends that he had there, to the end that they might assist and
favour him in his absence; from which circumstance he was always called from that day onward
Perino del Vaga.

Thus left in Rome, and seeing the ancient works of sculpture and the marvellous masses of buildings,
reduced for the most part to ruins, Perino stood lost in admiration at the greatness of the
many renowned and illustrious men who had executed those works. And so, becoming ever more
and more aflame with love of art, he burned unceasingly to attain to a height not too far distant
from those masters, in order to win fame and profit for himself with his works, even as had
been done by those at whom he marvelled as he beheld their beautiful creations. And while he
contemplated their greatness and the depths of his own lowliness and poverty, reflecting that
he possessed nothing save the desire to rise to their height, and that, having no one who might
maintain him and provide him with the means to live, he was forced, if he wished to remain
alive, to labour at work for those ordinary shops, now with one painter and now with another,
after the manner of the day-labourers in the fields, a mode of life which so hindered his studies,
he felt infinite grief and pain in his heart at not being able to make as soon as he would
have liked that proficience to which his mind, his will, and his necessities were urging him.
He made the resolve, therefore, to divide his time equally, working half the week at day work,
and during the other half devoting his attention to design; and to this second half he added
all the feast-days, together with a great part of the nights, thus stealing time from time
itself, in order to become famous and to escape from the hands of others so far as it might
be possible.

Having carried this intention into execution, he began to draw in the Chapel of Pope Julius,
where the vaulting had been painted by Michelagnolo Buonarroti, following both his methods
and the manner of Raffaello da Urbino. And then, going on to the ancient works in marble and
also to the grotesques in the grottoes under the ground, which pleased him through their novelty,
he learned the methods of working in stucco, gaining his bread meanwhile by grievous labour,
and enduring every hardship in order to become excellent in his profession. Nor had any long
time passed before he became the best and most finished draughtsman that there was among all
who were drawing in Rome, for the reason that he had, perhaps, a better knowledge of muscles
and of the difficult art of depicting the nude than many others who were held to be among the
best masters at that time; which was the reason that he became known not only to the men of
his profession, but also to many lords and prelates. And, in particular, Giulio Romano and
Giovan Francesco, called Il Fattore, disciples of Raffaello da Urbino, having praised him not
a little to their master, roused in him a desire to know Perino and to see his works in drawing;
which having pleased him, and together with his work his manner, his spirit, and his ways of
life, he declared that among all the young men that he had known, Perino would attain to the
highest perfection in that art.

Meanwhile Raffaello da Urbino had built the Papal Loggie, by the command of Leo X; and the
same Pope ordered that Raffaello should also have them adorned with stucco, painted, and gilded,
according as it should seem best to him. Thereupon Raffaello placed at the head of that enterprise,
for the stucco-work and the grotesques, Giovanni da Udine, who was very excellent and without
an equal in such works, but mostly in executing animals, fruits, and other little things. And
since he had chosen in Rome and summoned from other parts a great number of masters, he had
assembled together a company of men each very able at his own work, one in stucco, another
in grotesques, a third in foliage, a fourth in festoons, another in scenes, and others in other
things; and according as they improved they were brought forward and paid higher salaries,
so that by competing in that work many young men attained to great perfection, who were afterwards
held to be excellent in their various fields of art. Among that company Perino was assigned
to Giovanni da Udine by Raffaello, to the end that he might execute grotesques and scenes together
with the others; and he was told that according as he should acquit himself, so he would be
employed by Giovanni. And thus, labouring out of emulation and in order to prove his powers
and make proficience, before many months had passed Perino was held to be the first among all
those who were working there, both in drawing and in colouring; the best, I say, the most perfect
in grace and finish, and he who could execute both figures and grotesques in the most delicate
and beautiful manner; to which clear testimony and witness are borne by the grotesques, festoons,
and scenes by his hand that are in that work, which, besides surpassing the others, are executed
in much more faithful accord with the designs and sketches that Raffaello made for them. This
may be seen from a part of those scenes in the centre of the loggia, on the vaulting, where
the Hebrews are depicted crossing over the Jordan with the sacred Ark, and also marching round
the walls of Jericho, which fall into ruin; and the other scenes that follow, such as that
of Joshua causing the sun to stand still during the combat with the Amorites. Among those painted
in imitation of bronze on the base the best are likewise those by the hand of Perino--namely,
Abraham sacrificing his son, Jacob wrestling with the Angel, Joseph receiving his twelve brethren,
the fire descending from Heaven and consuming the sons of Levi, and many others which there
is no need to name, for their number is very great, and they can be distinguished from the
rest. At the beginning of the loggia, also, where one enters, he painted scenes from the New
Testament, the Nativity and the Baptism of Christ, and His Last Supper with the Apostles, which
are very beautiful; besides which, below the windows, as has been said, are the best scenes
painted in the colour of bronze that there are in the whole work. These labours cause every
man to marvel, both the paintings and the many works in stucco that he executed there with
his own hand; and his colouring, moreover, is much more pleasing and more highly finished than
that of any of the others.

This work was the reason that he became famous beyond all belief, yet this great praise did
not send him to sleep, but rather, since genius grows with praise, inspired him with even more
zeal, and made him almost certain that by persisting he would come to win those fruits and
honours that he saw every day in the possession of Raffaello da Urbino and Michelagnolo Buonarroti.
And he laboured all the more willingly, because he saw that he was held in estimation by Giovanni
da Udine and by Raffaello, and was employed in works of importance. He always showed extraordinary
deference and obedience towards Raffaello, honouring him in such a manner that he was beloved
by Raffaello as a son.

There was executed at this time, by order of Pope Leo, the vaulting of the Hall of the Pontiffs,
which is that through which one passes by way of the Loggie into the apartments of Pope Alexander
VI, formerly painted by Pinturicchio; and that vaulting was painted by Giovanni da Udine and
Perino. They executed in company the stucco-work and all those ornaments, grotesques, and animals
that are to be seen there, in addition to the varied and beautiful inventions that were depicted
by them in the compartments of the ceiling, which they had divided into certain circles and
ovals to contain the seven Planets of Heaven drawn by their appropriate animals, such as Jupiter
drawn by Eagles, Venus by Doves, the Moon by Women, Mars by Wolves, Mercury by Cocks, the Sun
by Horses, and Saturn by Serpents; besides the twelve Signs of the Zodiac, and some figures
from the forty-eight Constellations of Heaven, such as the Great Bear, the Dog Star, and many
others, which, by reason of their number, we must pass over in silence, without recounting
them all in their order, since anyone may see the work; which figures are almost all by the
hand of Perino. In the centre of the vaulting is a circle with four figures representing Victories,
seen foreshortened from below upwards, who are holding the Pope's Crown and the Keys; and these
are very well conceived and wrought with masterly art, to say nothing of the delicacy with
which he painted their vestments, veiling the nude with certain light draperies that partly
reveal the naked legs and arms, a truly graceful and beautiful effect. This work was justly
held, as it still is at the present day, to be very magnificent and rich in craftsmanship,
and also cheerful and pleasing; worthy, in short, of that Pontiff, who did not fail to reward
their labours, which truly deserved some signal remuneration.

Perino decorated a façade in chiaroscuro--a method brought into use at that time by the example
of Polidoro and Maturino--which is opposite to the house of the Marchioness of Massa, near
Maestro Pasquino, executing it with great boldness of design and with supreme diligence.

In the third year of his pontificate Pope Leo paid a visit to Florence, for which many triumphal
preparations were made in that city, and Perino went thither before the Court, partly in order
to see the pomps of the city, and partly from a wish to revisit his native country; and on
a triumphal arch at S. Trinità he made a large and very beautiful figure, seven braccia high,
while another was executed in competition with him by Toto del Nunziata, who had already been
his rival in boyhood. But to Perino every hour seemed a thousand years until he could return
to Rome, for he perceived that the rules and methods of the Florentine craftsmen were very
different from those that were customary in Rome; wherefore he departed from Florence and returned
to Rome, where he resumed his usual course of work. And in S. Eustachio dalla Dogana he painted
a S. Peter in fresco, which is a figure that has very strong relief, executed with a simple
flow of folds, and yet wrought with much design and judgment.

There was in Rome at this time the Archbishop of Cyprus, a man who was a great lover of the
arts, and particularly of painting; and he, having a house near the Chiavica, where he had
laid out a little garden with some statues and other antiquities of truly noble beauty, and
desiring to enhance their effect with some fine decorations, sent for Perino, who was very
much his friend, and they came to the decision that he should paint round the walls of that
garden many stories of Bacchantes, Satyrs, Fauns, and other wild things, in reference to an
ancient statue of Bacchus, seated beside a tiger, which the Archbishop had there. And so Perino
adorned that place with a variety of poetical fancies; and, among other things, he painted
there a little loggia with small figures, various grotesques, and many landscapes, coloured
with supreme grace and diligence. This work has been held by craftsmen, as it always will be,
to be worthy of the highest praise; and it was the reason that he became known to the Fugger
family, merchants of Germany, who, having built a house near the Banchi, on the way to the
Church of the Florentines, and having seen Perino's work and liked it, caused him to paint
there a courtyard and a loggia, with many figures, all worthy of the same praise as the other
works by his hand, for in them may be seen much delicacy and grace and great beauty of manner.

At this same time M. Marchionne Baldassini, having caused a house to be built for him near
S. Agostino, as has been related, by Antonio da San Gallo, who designed it very well, desired
that a hall which Antonio had constructed there should be painted all over; and after passing
in review many of the young painters, to the end that it might be well and beautifully done,
he finally resolved to give it to Perino. Having agreed about the price, Perino set his hand
to it, nor did he turn his attention from that work to any other until he had brought it to
a very happy conclusion in fresco. In that hall he made compartments by means of pilasters
which have between them niches great and small; in the larger niches are various figures of
philosophers, two in each niche, and in some one only, and in the smaller niches are little
boys, partly naked and partly draped in veiling, while above those small niches are some heads
of women, painted in imitation of marble. Above the cornice that crowns the pilasters there
follows a second series of pictures, separated from the first series below, with scenes in
figures of no great size from the history of the Romans, beginning with Romulus and ending
with Numa Pompilius. There are likewise various ornaments in imitation of different kinds of
marble, and over the beautiful chimney-piece of stone is a figure of Peace burning arms and
trophies, which is very lifelike. This work was held in much estimation during the lifetime
of M. Marchionne, as it has been ever since by all those who work in painting, and also by
many others not of the profession, who give it extraordinary praise.

In the Convent of the Nuns of S. Anna, Perino painted a chapel in fresco with many figures,
which was executed by him with his usual diligence. And on an altar in S. Stefano del Cacco
he painted in fresco, for a Roman lady, a Pietà with the Dead Christ in the lap of Our Lady,
with a portrait from life of that lady, which still has the appearance of a living figure;
and the whole work is very beautiful, and executed with great mastery and facility.

In those days Antonio da San Gallo had built at the corner of a house in Rome, which is known
as the Imagine di Ponte, a tabernacle finely adorned with travertine and very handsome, in
which something beautiful in the way of painting was to be executed; and he received a commission
from the owner of that house to give the work to one whom he should consider capable of painting
some noble picture there. Wherefore Antonio, who knew Perino to be the best of the young men
who were in Rome, allotted it to him. And he, setting his hand to the work, painted there a
Christ in the act of crowning the Madonna, and in the background he made a Glory, with a choir
of Seraphim and Angels clothed in light and delicate draperies, who are scattering flowers,
and other children of great beauty and variety; and on the sides of the tabernacle he painted
Saints, S. Sebastian on one side and S. Anthony on the other. This work was executed truly
well, and was equal to the others by his hand, which were always full of grace and charm.

A certain protonotary had erected a chapel of marble on four columns in the Minerva, and, desiring
to leave an altar-piece there in memory of himself, even if it were but a small one, he came
to an agreement with Perino, whose fame he had heard, and commissioned him to paint it in oils.
And he chose that the subject should be the Deposition of Christ from the Cross, which Perino
set himself to execute with the greatest possible zeal and diligence. In this picture he represented
Him as already laid upon the ground, surrounded by the Maries weeping over Him, in whose gestures
and attitudes he portrayed a melting pity and sorrow; besides which there are the Nicodemuses[28]
and other figures that are much admired, all woeful and afflicted at seeing the sinless Christ
lying dead. But the figures that he painted most divinely were those of the two Thieves, left
fixed upon the crosses, which, besides appearing to be real dead bodies, reveal a very good
mastery over muscles and nerves, which this occasion enabled him to display; wherefore, to
the eyes of him who beholds them, their limbs present themselves all drawn in that violent
death by the nerves, and the muscles by the nails and cords. There is, in addition, a landscape
wrapped in darkness, counterfeited with much judgment and art. And if the inundation which
came upon Rome after the sack had not done damage to this work, covering more than half of
it, its excellence would be clearly seen; but the water so softened the gesso, and caused the
wood to swell in such sort, that all the lower part that was soaked has peeled off too much
for the picture to give any pleasure; nay, it is a grief and a truly heartrending sorrow to
behold it, for it would certainly have been one of the most precious things in all Rome.

There was being rebuilt at this time, under the direction of Jacopo Sansovino, the Church of
S. Marcello in Rome, a convent of Servite Friars, which still remains unfinished; and when
they had carried the walls of some chapels to completion, and had roofed them, those friars
commissioned Perino to paint in one of these, as ornaments for a Madonna that is worshipped
in that church, two figures in separate niches, S. Joseph and S. Filippo, a Servite friar and
the founder of that Order, one on either side of the Madonna. These finished, he painted above
them some little boys that are perfect, and in the centre of the wall he placed another standing
upon a dado, who has upon his shoulders the ends of two festoons, which he directs towards
the corners of the chapel, where there are two other little boys who support them, being seated
upon them, with their legs in most beautiful attitudes. All this he executed with such art,
such grace, and so beautiful a manner, and gave to the flesh a tint of colour so fresh and
soft, that one might say that it was real flesh rather than painted. And certainly these figures
may be held to be the most beautiful that ever any craftsman painted in fresco, for the reason
that there is life in their eyes and movement in their attitudes, and with the mouth they make
as if to break into speech and say that art has conquered Nature, and that even art declares
that nothing more than this can be done in her. This work was so excellent in the sight of
all good judges of art, that he acquired a great name thereby, although he had executed many
works and what was known of his great genius in his profession was well known; and he was therefore
held in much more account and greater estimation than ever before.

For this reason Lorenzo Pucci, Cardinal Santiquattro, who had taken over a chapel on the left
hand beside the principal chapel in the Trinità, a convent of Calabrian and French Friars who
wear the habit of S. Francis of Paola, allotted it to Perino, to the end that he might paint
there in fresco the life of Our Lady. Which having begun, Perino finished all the vaulting
and a wall under an arch; and on the outer side, also, over an arch of the chapel, he painted
two Prophets four braccia and a half in height, representing Isaiah and Daniel, who in their
great proportions reveal all the art, excellence of design, and beauty of colouring that can
be seen in their perfection only in a picture executed by a great craftsman. This will be clearly
evident to one who shall consider the Isaiah, in whom, as he reads, may be perceived the thoughtfulness
that study infuses in him, and his eagerness in reading new things, for he has his gaze fixed
upon a book, with one hand to his head, exactly as a man often is when he is studying; and
Daniel, likewise, is motionless, with his head upraised in celestial contemplation, in order
to resolve the doubts of his people. Between these figures are two little boys who are upholding
the escutcheon of the Cardinal, a shield of beautiful shape: and these boys, besides being
so painted as to seem to be of flesh, also have the appearance of being in relief. The vaulting
is divided into four scenes, separated one from another by the cross--that is, by the ribs
of the vaulting. In the first is the Conception of Our Lady, in the second her Nativity, in
the third the scene when she ascends the steps of the Temple, and in the fourth S. Joseph marrying
her. On a wall-space equal in extent to the arch of the vaulting is her Visitation, in which
are many figures that are very beautiful, but above all some who have climbed on certain socles
and are standing in very spirited and natural attitudes, the better to see the ceremonious
meeting of those women; besides which, there is something of the good and of the beautiful
in the buildings and in every gesture of the other figures. He pursued this work no further,
illness coming upon him; and when he was well, there began the plague of the year 1523, which
raged so violently in Rome, that, if he wished to save his life, it became expedient for him
to make up his mind to depart.

There was in the city of Rome at that time the goldsmith Piloto, who was much the friend and
intimate companion of Perino, and he was desirous of departing; and so one morning, as they
were breakfasting together, he persuaded Perino to take himself off and go to Florence, on
the ground that it was many years since he had been there, and that it could not but bring
him great honour to make himself known there and to leave some example of his excellence in
that city; saying also that, although Andrea de' Ceri and his wife, who had brought him up,
were dead, nevertheless, as a native of that country, if he had no possessions there, he had
his love for it. Wherefore, after no long time, one morning Perino and Piloto departed and
set out on the way to Florence. And when they had arrived there, Perino took the greatest pleasure
in seeing once again the old works painted by the masters of the past, which had been as a
school to him in the days of his boyhood, and likewise those of the masters then living who
were the most celebrated and held to be the best in that city, in which, through the interest
of friends, a work was allotted to him, as will be related below. It happened one day that
many craftsmen having assembled in his presence to do him honour, painters, sculptors, architects,
goldsmiths, and carvers in wood and marble, who had gathered together according to the ancient
custom, some to see Perino, to keep him company, and to hear what he had to say, many to learn
what difference in practice there might be between the craftsmen of Rome and those of Florence,
but most of them to hear the praise and censure that craftsmen are wont often to give to one
another; it happened, I say, that thus discoursing together of one thing and another, and examining
the works, both ancient and modern, in the various churches, they came to that of the Carmine,
in order to see the chapel of Masaccio. There everyone gazed attentively at the paintings,
and many various opinions were uttered in praise of that master, all declaring that they marvelled
that he should have possessed so much judgment as to be able in those days, without seeing
anything but the work of Giotto, to work with so much of the modern manner in the design, in
the colouring, and in the imitation of Nature, and that he should have solved the difficulties
of his art in a manner so facile; not to mention that among all those who had worked at painting,
there had not as yet been one who had equalled him in strength of relief, in resoluteness,
and in mastery of execution.

This kind of discourse much pleased Perino, and to all those craftsmen who spoke thus he answered
in these words: "I do not deny that what you say, and even more, may be true; but that there
is no one among us who can equal this manner, that I will deny with my last breath. Nay, I
will declare, if I may say it with the permission of the company, not in contempt, but from
a desire for the truth, that I know many both more resolute and richer in grace, whose works
are no less lifelike in the painting than these, and even much more beautiful. And I, by your
leave, I who am not the first in this art, am grieved that there is no space near these works
wherein I might be able to paint a figure; for before departing from Florence I would make
a trial beside one of these figures, likewise in fresco, to the end that you might see by comparison
whether there be not among the moderns one who has equalled him." Among their number was a
master who was held to be the first painter in Florence; and he, being curious to see the work
of Perino, and perhaps wishing to lower his pride, put forward an idea of his own, which was
this: "Although," said he, "all the space here is full, yet, since you have such a fancy, which
is certainly a good one and worthy of praise, there, on the opposite side, where there is the
S. Paul by his hand, a figure no less good and beautiful than any other in the chapel, is a
space in which you may easily prove what you say by making another Apostle, either beside that
S. Peter by Masolino or beside the S. Paul of Masaccio, whichever you may prefer." The S. Peter
was nearer the window, and the space beside it was greater and the light better; besides which,
it was a figure no less beautiful than the S. Paul. Everyone, therefore, urged Perino to do
it, because they had a great desire to see that Roman manner; besides which, many said that
he would be the means of taking out of their heads the fancy that they had nursed in their
minds for so many decades, and that if his figure should prove to be the best all would run
after modern works. Wherefore, persuaded by that master, who told him at last that he ought
not to disappoint the entreaties and expectations of so many lofty intellects, particularly
since it would not take longer than two weeks to execute a figure in fresco, and they would
not fail to spend years in praising his labours, Perino resolved to do it, although he who
spoke thus had an intention quite contrary to his words, being persuaded that Perino would
by no means execute anything much better than the work of those craftsmen who were considered
to be the most excellent at that time. Perino, then, undertook to make this attempt; and having
summoned by common consent M. Giovanni da Pisa, the Prior of the convent, they asked him for
the space for the execution of the work, which he granted to them with truly gracious courtesy;
and thus they took measurements of the space, with the height and breadth, and went away.

An Apostle was then drawn by Perino in a cartoon, in the person of S. Andrew, and finished
with the greatest diligence; whereupon Perino, having first caused the staging to be erected,
was prepared to begin to paint it. But before this, on his arrival in Florence, his many friends,
who had seen most excellent works by his hand in Rome, had contrived to obtain for him the
commission for that work in fresco which I mentioned, to the end that he might leave some example
of his handiwork in Florence, which might demonstrate how spirited and how beautiful was his
genius for painting, and also to the end that he might become known and perchance be set to
work on some labour of importance by those who were then governing. There were at that time
certain craftsmen who used to assemble in a company called the Company of the Martyrs, in the
Camaldoli at Florence; and they had proposed many times to have a wall that was in that place
painted with the story of the Martyrs being condemned to death before two Roman Emperors, who,
after they had been taken in battle, caused them to be crucified in the wood and hanged on
trees. This story was suggested to Perino, and, although the place was out of the way, and
the price small, so much was he attracted by the possibilities of invention in the story and
by the size of the wall, that he was disposed to undertake it; besides which, he was urged
not a little by those who were his friends, on the ground that the work would establish him
in that reputation which his talent deserved among the citizens, who did not know him, and
among his fellow-craftsmen in Florence, where he was not known save by report. Having then
determined to do the work, he accepted the undertaking and made a small design, which was held
to be a thing divine; and having set his hand to making a cartoon as large as the whole work,
he never left off labouring at it, and carried it so far that all the principal figures were
completely finished. And so the Apostle was abandoned, without anything more being done.

Perino drew this cartoon on white paper, well shaded and hatched, leaving the paper itself
for the lights, and executing the whole with admirable diligence. In it were the two Emperors
on the seat of judgment, condemning to the cross all the prisoners, who were turned towards
the tribunal, some kneeling, some standing, and others bowed, but all naked and bound in different
ways, and writhing with piteous gestures in various attitudes, revealing the trembling of the
limbs at the prospect of the severing of the soul from the body in the agony and torment of
crucifixion; besides which, there were depicted in those heads the constancy of faith in the
old, the fear of death in the young, and in others the torture that they suffer from the strain
of the cords on their bodies and arms. And there could also be seen the swelling of the muscles
and even the cold sweat of death, all depicted in that design. Then in the soldiers who were
leading them there was revealed a terrible fury, most impious and cruel, as they presented
them at the tribunal for condemnation and led them to the cross. The Emperors and the soldiers
were wearing cuirasses after the ancient manner and garments very ornate and bizarre, with
buskins, shoes, helmets, shields, and other pieces of armour wrought with all that wealth of
the most beautiful ornamentation to which a craftsman can attain in imitating and reproducing
the antique, and drawn with the greatest lovingness, subtlety, and delicacy that the perfection
of art can display. When this cartoon was seen by the craftsmen and by other judges of discernment,
they declared that they had never seen such beauty and excellence in design since the cartoon
drawn by Michelagnolo Buonarroti in Florence for the Council Chamber; wherefore Perino acquired
the greatest fame that he could have gained in art. And while he was engaged in finishing that
cartoon, he amused himself by causing oil-colours to be prepared and ground in order to paint
for his dearest friend, the goldsmith Piloto, a little picture of no great size, containing
a Madonna, which he carried something more than half-way towards completion.

For many years past Perino had been intimately acquainted with a certain lame priest, Ser Raffaello
di Sandro, a chaplain of S. Lorenzo, who always bore love to the craftsmen of design. This
priest, then, persuaded Perino to take up his quarters with him, seeing that he had no one
to cook for him or to keep house for him, and that during the time that he had been in Florence
he had stayed now with one friend and now with another; wherefore Perino went to lodge with
him, and stayed there many weeks. Meanwhile the plague began to appear in certain parts of
Florence, and filled Perino with fear lest he should catch the infection; on which account
he determined to go away, but wished first to recompense Ser Raffaello for all the days that
he had eaten at his table. But Ser Raffaello would never consent to take anything, only saying:
"I would be fully paid by having a scrap of paper from your hand." Seeing him to be determined,
Perino took about four braccia of coarse canvas, and, after having it fixed to the wall between
two doors in the priest's little room, painted on it in a day and a night a scene coloured
in imitation of bronze. On this canvas, which was to serve as a screen for the wall, he painted
the story of Moses passing the Red Sea and Pharaoh being submerged with his horses and his
chariots; and Perino painted therein figures in most beautiful attitudes, some swimming in
armour and some naked, others swimming while clasping the horses round the neck, with their
beards and hair all soaked, crying out in the fear of death and struggling with all their power
to escape. On the other side of the sea are Moses, Aaron, and all the other Hebrews, male and
female, who are thanking God, and a number of vases that he counterfeited, carried off by them
from Egypt, varied and beautiful in form and shape, and women with head-dresses of great variety.
Which finished, he left it as a mark of lovingness to Ser Raffaello, to whom it was as dear
as the Priorate of S. Lorenzo would have been. This canvas was afterwards much extolled and
held in estimation, and after the death of Ser Raffaello it passed, together with his other
possessions, to his brother Domenico di Sandro, the cheesemonger.

Departing, then, from Florence, Perino abandoned the work of the Martyrs, which caused him
great regret; and certainly, if it had been in any other place but the Camaldoli, he would
have finished it; but, considering that the officials of health had taken that very Convent
of Camaldoli for those infected with the plague, he thought it better to save himself than
to leave fame behind him in Florence, being satisfied that he had proved how much he was worth
in the design. The cartoon, with his other things, remained in the possession of the goldsmith
Giovanni di Goro, his friend, who died in the plague; and after that it fell into the hands
of Piloto, who kept it spread out in his house for many years, showing it readily as a very
rare work to every person of intelligence; but I do not know what became of it after the death
of Piloto.

Perino stayed for many months in various places, seeking to avoid the plague, but for all this
he never spent his time in vain, for he was continually drawing and studying the secrets of
art; and when the plague had ceased, he returned to Rome and gave his attention to executing
little works of which I shall say nothing more. In the year 1523 came the election of Pope
Clement VII, which was the greatest of blessings for the arts of painting and sculpture, which
had been so kept down by Adrian VI during his lifetime, that not only had nothing been executed
for him, but, as has been related in other places, not delighting in them, or rather, holding
them in detestation, he had brought it about that no other person delighted in them, or spent
money upon them, or employed a single craftsman. Then, therefore, after the election of the
new Pontiff, Perino executed many works.

Afterwards it was proposed that Giulio Romano and Giovan Francesco, called Il Fattore, should
be made heads of the world of art in place of Raffaello, who was dead, to the end that they
might distribute the various works to the others, according to the previous custom. But Perino,
in executing an escutcheon of the Pope in fresco over the door of Cardinal Cesarino, after
the cartoon of Giulio Romano, acquitted himself so excellently well, that they doubted whether
he would not be preferred to themselves, because, although they were known as the disciples
of Raffaello and as the heirs to his possessions, they had not inherited the whole of the art
and grace that he used to give to his figures with colours. Giulio and Giovan Francesco therefore
made up their minds to attach Perino to themselves; and so in the holy year of Jubilee, 1525,
they gave him Caterina, the sister of Giovan Francesco, for wife, to the end that the perfect
friendship which had been maintained between them for so long might be converted into kinship.
Thereupon, continuing the works that he had in hand, no long time had passed when, on account
of the praises bestowed upon him for the first work executed by him in S. Marcello, it was
resolved by the Prior of that convent and by certain heads of the Company of the Crocifisso,
which has a chapel there built by its members as a place of assembly, that the chapel should
be painted; and so they allotted this work to Perino, in the hope of having some excellent
painting by his hand. Perino, having caused the staging to be erected, began the work; and
in the centre of the barrel-shaped vaulting he painted the scene when God, after creating Adam,
takes his wife Eve from his side. In this scene Adam, a most beautiful naked figure painted
with perfect art, is seen lying overcome by sleep, while Eve, with great vivacity, rises to
her feet with the hands clasped and receives the benediction of her Maker, the figure of whom
is depicted grave in aspect and sublime in majesty, standing with many draperies about Him,
which curve round His nude form with their borders. On one side, on the right hand, are two
Evangelists, S. Mark and S. John, the first of whom Perino finished entirely, and also the
second with the exception of the head and a naked arm. Between these two Evangelists, by way
of ornament, he made two little boys embracing a candelabrum, which are truly of living flesh;
and the Evangelists, likewise, in the heads, the draperies, the arms, and all that he painted
in them with his own hand, are very beautiful.

While he was executing this work, he suffered many interruptions from illness and from other
misfortunes, such as happen every day to all who live in this world; besides which, it is said
that the men of the Company also ran short of money. And so long did this business drag on,
that in the year 1527 there came upon them the ruin of Rome, when that city was given over
to sack, many craftsmen were killed, and many works destroyed or carried away. Whereupon Perino,
caught in that turmoil, and having a wife and a baby girl, ran from place to place in Rome
with the child in his arms, seeking to save her, and finally, poor wretch, was taken prisoner
and reduced to paying a ransom, which hit him so hard that he was like to go out of his mind.
When the fury of the sack had abated, he was so crushed down by the fear that still possessed
him, that all thought of art was worlds away from him, but nevertheless he painted canvases
in gouache and other fantasies for certain Spanish soldiers; and after regaining his composure,
he lived like the rest in some poor fashion. Alone among so many, Baviera, who had the engravings
of Raffaello, had not lost much; wherefore, moved by the friendship that he had with Perino,
and wishing to employ him, he commissioned him to draw some of the stories of the Gods transforming
themselves in order to achieve the consummation of their loves. These were engraved on copper
by Jacopo Caraglio, an excellent engraver of prints, who acquitted himself so well in the matter
of these designs, that, preserving the outlines and manner of Perino, and hatching the work
with beautiful facility, he sought also to impart to the engravings that grace and that delicacy
which Perino had given to the drawings.

While the havoc of the sack had destroyed Rome and driven away the inhabitants and the Pope
himself, who was living at Orvieto, not many remaining in the city, and no business of any
kind being done there, there arrived in Rome one Niccola Viniziano, a rare and even unrivalled
master of embroidery, the servant of Prince Doria. He, moved by his long-standing friendship
with Perino, and being a man who always favoured and wished well to the men of our arts, persuaded
him to leave that misery and set out for Genoa, promising that he would so go to work with
that Prince, who was a lover of art and delighted in painting, that he would commission Perino
to execute some big works, and saying, moreover, that His Excellency had often told him that
he would like to have a suite of rooms adorned with handsome decorations. It did not take much
to persuade Perino, for he was oppressed by want and burning with desire to leave Rome; and
he determined to depart with Niccola. Having therefore made arrangements for leaving his wife
and daughter well cared for by relatives in Rome, and having put all his affairs in order,
he set off for Genoa. Arriving there, and making himself known to that Prince by means of Niccola,
his coming was as welcome to His Excellency as any agreeable experience that he had ever had
in all his life. He was received, therefore, with the greatest possible warmth and gladness,
and after many conversations and discussions they finally arranged that he should begin the
work; and they decided that he should execute a palace adorned with stucco-work and with pictures
in fresco, in oils, and of every kind, which I will strive to describe as briefly as I am able,
with all the rooms, pictures, and general arrangement, saying nothing as to where Perino first
began to labour, to the end that I may not obscure this work, which is the best of all those
by his hand, with words.

I begin, then, by saying that at the entrance of the Prince's Palace there is a marble portal
composed in the Doric Order, and built after designs and models by the hand of Perino, with
all its appurtenances of pedestals, socles, shafts, capitals, architrave, frieze, cornice and
pediment, and with some most beautiful seated figures of women, who are supporting an escutcheon.
The masonry and carving of this work were executed by Maestro Giovanni da Fiesole, and the
figures were finished to perfection by Silvio, the sculptor of Fiesole, a bold and resolute
master. Entering within the portal, one finds over the vestibule a vault covered with stucco-work,
varied scenes, and grotesques, and little arches in each of which are scenes of war and various
kinds of battles, some fighting on foot and others on horseback, and all wrought with truly
extraordinary diligence and art. On the left one finds the staircase, which has decorations
of little grotesques after the antique that could not be richer or more beautiful, with various
scenes and little figures, masks, children, animals, and other things of fancy, executed with
that invention and judgment that always marked his work, insomuch that of their kind they may
well be called divine. Having ascended the staircase, one comes into a most beautiful loggia,
which has at each end a very handsome door of stone; and over each of these doors, in the pediment,
are painted two figures, one male and the other female, represented in directly opposite attitudes,
one showing the front view and the other the back. The vaulting has five arches, and is wrought
superbly in stucco, and it is also divided by pictures in certain ovals, containing scenes
executed with the most perfect beauty that could be achieved; and the walls are painted down
to the floor with many seated figures of captains in armour, some drawn from life and some
from imagination, and representing all the ancient and modern captains of the house of Doria,
and above them are large letters of gold, which run thus--"Magni viri, maximi duces, optima
fecere pro patria." In the first hall, which opens into the loggia and is entered by one of
the two doors, that on the left hand, there are most beautiful ornaments of stucco on the corners
of the vaulting, and in the centre there is a large scene of the Shipwreck of Æneas in the
sea, in which are nude figures, living and dead, in attitudes of infinite variety, besides
a good number of ships and galleys, some sound and some shattered by the fury of the tempest;
not without beautiful considerations in the figures of the living, who are striving to save
themselves, and expressions of terror that are produced in their features by the struggle with
the waves, the danger of death, and all the emotions aroused by the perils of the sea. This
was the first scene and the first work that Perino began for the Prince. It is said that when
he arrived in Genoa, Girolamo da Treviso had already appeared there in advance of him in order
to execute certain pictures, and was painting a wall that faced towards the garden. And after
Perino had begun to draw the cartoon for the scene of the Shipwreck that has been described
above, while he was taking his time about it, amusing himself and seeing Genoa, and labouring
only at intervals at the cartoon, although a great part was finished in various ways and those
nudes were drawn, some in chiaroscuro, some in charcoal, and others in black chalk, some being
drawn in imitation of gradine-work, others shaded, and others again only outlined; while, I
say, Perino was going on in this way, without beginning to paint, Girolamo da Treviso murmured
against him, saying, "Cartoons, and nothing but cartoons! I have my art at the tip of my brush."
Decrying him very often in this or some other similar manner, it came to the ears of Perino,
who, taking offence, straightway caused his cartoon to be fixed to the vaulting where the scene
was to be painted, and the boards of his staging to be removed in many places, to the end that
the work might be seen from below; and then he threw open the hall. Which hearing, all Genoa
ran to see it, and, amazed by Perino's grand design, they praised him to the skies. Thither,
among others, went Girolamo da Treviso, who saw what he had never thought to see from the hand
of Perino; whereupon, dumbfoundered by the beauty of the work, he departed from Genoa without
asking leave of Prince Doria, and returned to Bologna, where he lived. Perino was thus left
alone in the service of the Prince, and finished that hall, painting it in oils on the surface
of the walls; and it was held to be, as indeed it is, a thing unrivalled in its beauty, with
its lovely work in stucco in the centre of the vaulting and all around, even below the lunettes,
as I have described. In the other hall, into which one enters by the right-hand door in the
loggia, he executed on the vaulting works in stucco almost similar in design to those of the
other, and painted pictures in fresco of Jove slaying the Giants with his thunderbolts, in
which are many very beautiful nudes, larger than life. In the Heaven, likewise, are all the
Gods, who are making gestures of great vivacity and truly appropriate to their natures, amid
the terrible uproar of the thunder; besides which, the stucco-work is executed with supreme
diligence, and the fresco-colouring could not be more beautiful, seeing that Perino was very
able--indeed, a perfect master--in that field. Near this he adorned four chambers, the ceilings
of which are all wrought in stucco, and distributed among them, in fresco, are the most beautiful
fables from Ovid, which have all the appearance of reality, nor could any one imagine the beauty,
the abundance, the variety, and the great numbers of the little figures, animals, foliage,
and grotesques that are in them, all executed with lively invention. Beside the other hall,
likewise, he adorned four more chambers, but only directing the work, which was carried out
by his assistants, although he gave them the designs both of the stucco-decorations and of
the scenes, figures, and grotesques, upon which a vast number of them worked, some little and
some much; such as Luzio Romano, who did much work in stucco there and many grotesques, and
a number of Lombards. Let it suffice to say that there is no room there that has not something
by his hand and is not full of ornaments, even to the space below the vaulting, with various
compositions full of children, bizarre masks, and animals, which all defies description; not
to mention that the little studies, the antechambers, the closets, and all other parts of the
palace, are painted and made beautiful. From the palace one passes into the garden and into
a low building, which has the most ornate decorations in all the rooms, even below the ceilings,
and so also the halls, chambers, and anterooms, all adorned by the same hand. In this work
Pordenone also took a part, as I said in his Life, and likewise Domenico Beccafumi of Siena,
a very rare painter, who showed that he was not inferior to any of the others, although the
works by his hand that are in Siena are the most excellent among the vast number that he painted.

But to return to the works that Perino executed after those that he did in the Palace of the
Prince; he executed a frieze in a room in the house of Giannetin Doria, containing most beautiful
women, and he did many works for various gentlemen throughout the city, both in fresco and
in oil-colours. He painted a most beautiful altar-piece, very finely designed, for S. Francesco,
and another for a church called S. Maria "de Consolatione," at the commission of a gentleman
of the house of Baciadonne: in which picture he painted the Nativity of Christ, a work that
is much extolled, but it was placed in a position so dark, that, by reason of the light not
being good enough, one is not able to recognize its perfection, and all the more because Perino
strove to paint it in a dark manner, so that it has need of a strong light. He also made drawings
of the greater part of the Æneid, with the stories of Dido, from which tapestries were woven;
and he likewise drew beautiful ornaments for the poops of galleys, which were carved and finished
to perfection by Carota and Tasso, wood-carvers of Florence, who proved excellently well how
able they were in that art. And in addition to all these things he also executed a vast number
of works on cloth for the galleys of the Prince, and the largest standards that could be made
for their adornment and embellishment. Wherefore he was so beloved by that Prince for his fine
qualities, that, if he had continued to serve him, the Prince would have richly rewarded his
abilities.

But while he was working in Genoa, the fancy came to him to fetch his wife from Rome, and so
he bought a house in Pisa, being pleased with that city and half thinking of choosing it as
his place of habitation when old age should come upon him. Now at that time the Warden of the
Duomo at Pisa was M. Antonio di Urbano, who had a very great desire to embellish that temple,
and had already caused a beginning to be made with some very beautiful ornaments of marble
for the chapels of the church, which had been executed by the hand of Stagio da Pietrasanta,
a very able and well practised carver of marble: removing some old, clumsy, and badly proportioned
chapels that were there. Having thus made a beginning, the Warden proposed to fill up those
ornaments in the interior with altar-pieces in oils, and on the outer side with a series of
scenes in fresco and decorations in stucco, by the hands of the best and most excellent masters
that he could find, without grudging any expense that might be incurred. He had already set
to work on the sacristy, which he had placed in the great recess behind the high-altar, and
there the ornamentation of marble was already finished, and many pictures had been painted
by the Florentine painter Giovanni Antonio Sogliani, the rest of which, together with the altar-pieces
and the chapels that were wanting, were finished many years afterwards by order of M. Sebastiano
della Seta, the Warden of the Duomo in those days.

At that time Perino returned from Genoa to Pisa, and, having seen that beginning, at the instance
of Battista del Cervelliera, a person well conversant with art and a most ingenious master
of wood-carving, perspective, and inlaying, he was presented to the Warden. After they had
discoursed together on the subject of the works of the Duomo, Perino was asked to paint an
altar-piece for an ornament immediately within the ordinary door of entrance, the ornamental
frame being already finished, and above that a scene of S. George slaying the Dragon and delivering
the King's Daughter. Perino therefore made a most beautiful design, which included a row of
children and other ornaments in fresco between one chapel and the other, and niches with Prophets
and scenes of various kinds; and this design pleased the Warden. And so, having made the cartoon
for one of them, the first one, that opposite to the door mentioned above, he began to execute
it in colour, and finished six children, which are very well painted. He was to have continued
this right round, which would have made a very rich and very beautiful decoration; and the
whole work together would have proved to be something very handsome. But he was seized with
a desire to return to Genoa, where he had involved himself in love affairs and other pleasures,
to which he was inclined at certain times: and on his departure he gave to the Nuns of S. Maffeo
a little altar-piece that he had painted for them in oils, which is now in their possession
in the convent. Then, having arrived in Genoa, he stayed there many months, executing other
works for the Prince.

His departure from Pisa displeased the Warden greatly, and even more the circumstance that
the work remained unfinished; wherefore he did not cease to write to him every day that he
should return, or to make inquiries from Perino's wife, whom he had left in Pisa. But finally,
perceiving that the matter would never end, Perino neither answering nor returning, he allotted
the altar-piece of that chapel to Giovanni Antonio Sogliani, who finished it and set it into
its place. Not long after this Perino returned to Pisa, and, seeing the work of Sogliani, flew
into a rage, and would on no account continue what he had begun, saying that he did not choose
that his pictures should serve as ornaments for those of other masters; wherefore, so far as
concerned him, that work remained unfinished. Giovanni Antonio carried it on to such purpose
that he painted four altar-pieces: but these, at a later date, appeared to Sebastiano della
Seta, the new Warden, to be all in the same manner, and somewhat less beautiful than the first,
and he allotted to Domenico Beccafumi of Siena--after proving his worth from some pictures
that he painted round the sacristy, which are very beautiful--an altar-piece which he executed
in Pisa. This not giving as much satisfaction as the first pictures, he caused the two last
that were wanting to be painted by Giorgio Vasari of Arezzo; and they were placed at the two
doors beside the corner-walls of the main façade of the church. Of these, as well as of many
other works, both large and small, that are dispersed throughout Italy and various places abroad,
it does not become me to say more, and I will leave the right of free judgment about them to
all who have seen or may see them. The loss of this work caused real vexation to Perino, he
having already made the designs for it, which gave promise that it would prove to be something
worthy of him, and likely to give that temple great fame over and above that of its antiquities,
and also to make Perino immortal.

During the many years of his sojourn in Genoa, although he drew both profit and pleasure from
that city, Perino had grown weary of it, as he remembered Rome in the happy days of Leo. But
although, during the lifetime of Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici, he had received letters inviting
him into his service, and he had been disposed to enter it, the death of that lord brought
it about that he hesitated to repatriate himself. While matters stood thus, with his many friends
urging his return, himself desiring it infinitely more than any of them, and several letters
being exchanged, one morning, in the end, the fancy took him, and without saying a word he
set off from Pisa and made his way to Rome. There, after making himself known to the most reverend
Cardinal Farnese, and then to Pope Paul, he stayed many months without doing anything; first,
because he was put off from one day to another, and then because he was attacked by some infirmity
in one of his arms, on account of which he spent several hundreds of crowns, to say nothing
of the discomfort, before he could be cured of it. Wherefore, having no one to maintain him,
and being vexed by his cold welcome from the Court, he was tempted many times to go away; but
Molza and many other friends exhorted him to have patience, telling him that Rome was no longer
what she had been, and that now she expected that a man should be exhausted and weary of her
before she would choose and cherish him as her own, and particularly if he were pursuing the
path of some fine art.

At this time M. Pietro de' Massimi bought a chapel in the Trinità, with the vaulting and the
lunettes painted and adorned with stucco, and the altar-piece painted in oils, all by Giulio
Romano and Perino's brother-in-law, Giovan Francesco; and that gentleman was desirous to have
it finished. In the lunettes were four stories of S. Mary Magdalene in fresco, and in the altar-piece
in oils was Christ appearing to Mary Magdalene in the form of a gardener; and M. Pietro first
caused a gilt frame of wood to be made for the altar-piece, which had a miserable one of stucco,
and then allotted the walls to Perino, who, having caused the staging and the screen to be
erected, set his hand to the work, and after many months brought it to completion. He made
a design of bizarre and beautiful grotesques, partly in low-relief and partly painted; and
he executed two little scenes of no great size, one on each wall, surrounding them with an
ornament in stucco of great variety. In one scene was the Pool of Bethesda, with all the cripples
and sick persons, and the Angel who comes to move the waters, the porticoes seen most beautifully
foreshortened in perspective, and the movements and vestments of the priests, all painted with
great grace and vivacity, although the figures are not very large. In the other, he painted
the Raising of Lazarus after he had been dead four days, wherein he is seen newly restored
to life, and still marked by the pallor and fear of death: and round him are many who are unswathing
him, and not a few who are marvelling, and others struck with awe, besides which the scene
is adorned with some little temples that recede into the distance, executed with supreme lovingness,
as are also the works in stucco all around. There are likewise four very small scenes, two
to each wall, and one on either side of the larger scene; in one of which is the Centurion
beseeching Christ that He should heal with a word his son who is dying, in another Christ driving
the traders from the Temple, in a third the Transfiguration, and in the last a similar scene.
And on the projections of the pilasters within the chapel he painted four figures in the guise
of Prophets, which, in their proportions, their excellence, and their beauty, are as well executed
and finished as they could well be. In a word, the whole work was carried out with such diligence,
and is so delicate, that it resembles miniature rather than painting. In it may be seen much
charm and vivacity of colouring, and signs of great patience in its execution, revealing that
true love which should be felt for art; and he painted this whole work with his own hand, although
he had a great part of the stucco-work executed after his designs by Guglielmo Milanese, whom
he had formerly had with him at Genoa, loving him much, and once even offering to give him
his daughter in marriage. This Guglielmo, in reward for restoring the antiquities of the house
of Farnese, has now been made Friar of the Piombo, in the place of Fra Sebastiano Viniziano.

I must not omit to tell that against one wall of this chapel was a most beautiful tomb of marble,
with a dead woman of marble, beautifully carved by the sculptor Bologna, on the sarcophagus,
and two little naked boys at the sides. The countenance of that woman was a lifelike portrait
of a very famous courtezan of Rome, who left that memorial of herself, which was removed by
the friars because they felt scruples that such a woman should have been laid to rest there
with so much honour.

This work, with many designs that he made, was the reason that the very reverend Cardinal Farnese
began to give him an allowance and to make use of him in many works. By order of Pope Paul,
a chimney-piece that was in the Chamber of the Burning of the Borgo was placed in that of the
Segnatura, where there were the panellings with perspective views in wood executed by the hand
of the carver Fra Giovanni for Pope Julius. Raffaello had painted both of those chambers; but
it became necessary to repaint all the base to the scenes in the Chamber of the Segnatura,
which is that in which is the picture of Mount Parnassus. On which account a decorative design
in imitation of marble was painted by Perino, with various terminal figures, festoons, masks,
and other ornaments; and, in certain spaces, scenes painted to look like bronze, which are
very beautiful for works in fresco. In these scenes, even as above them were Philosophers discoursing
on Philosophy, Theologians on Theology, and Poets on Poetry, were all the actions of those
who have been eminent in those professions. And although he did not execute them all with his
own hand, he retouched them so much "a secco," besides making perfectly finished cartoons,
that they may almost be said to be entirely by his hand; which method he employed because,
being troubled by a catarrh, he was not fit for so much labour. Whereupon the Pope, recognizing
that he deserved something both on account of his age and for all his work, and hearing him
much recommended, gave him an allowance of twenty-five ducats a month, which lasted up to his
death, on the condition that he should have charge of the Palace and of the house of the Farnese
family.

By this time Michelagnolo Buonarroti had uncovered the wall with the Last Judgment in the Papal
Chapel, and there remained still unpainted the base below, where there was to be fixed a screen
of arras woven in silk and gold, like the tapestries that adorn the Chapel. Wherefore, the
Pope having ordained that the weaving should be done in Flanders, it was arranged with the
consent of Michelagnolo that Perino should begin to paint a canvas of the same size, which
he did, executing in it women, children and terminal figures, holding festoons, and all very
lifelike, with the most bizarre things of fancy; but this work, which was truly worthy of him
and of the divine picture that it was to adorn, remained unfinished after his death in some
apartments of the Belvedere.

After this, Antonio da San Gallo having finished the building of the Great Hall of Kings in
front of the Chapel of Sixtus IV in the Papal Palace, Perino divided the ceiling into a large
pattern of octagonal compartments, crosses, and ovals, both sunk and in relief; which done,
Perino was also commissioned to adorn it with stucco-work, with the richest and most beautiful
ornaments that could be produced by all the resources of that art. He thus began it, and in
the octagons, in place of rosettes, he made four little boys in full relief, who, with their
feet pointing to the centre and their arms forming a circle, make a most beautiful rosette,
and in the rest of the compartments are all the devices of the house of Farnese, with the arms
of the Pope in the centre of the vaulting. And this work in stucco may be said with truth to
have surpassed in mastery of execution, in beauty, and in delicacy, all those that have ever
been done by ancients or moderns, and to be truly worthy of the head of the Christian religion.
After the designs of the same man, likewise, the glass windows were executed by Pastorino da
Siena, an able master of that craft; and Perino caused the walls below to be prepared with
very beautiful ornaments in stucco, intending to paint scenes there with his own hand, which
were afterwards continued by the painter Daniello Ricciarelli of Volterra, who, if death had
not cut short the noble aspirations that he had, would have proved how the moderns have the
courage not only to equal the ancients with their works, but perhaps even to surpass them by
a great measure.

While the stucco-work of this vaulting was in progress, and Perino was considering the designs
for his scenes, the old walls of the Church of S. Pietro at Rome were being pulled down to
make way for those of the new building, and the masons came to a wall where there was a Madonna,
with other pictures, by the hand of Giotto; which being seen by Perino, who was in the company
of Messer Niccolò Acciaiuoli, a Florentine doctor and much his friend, both of them were moved
to pity for that picture and would not allow it to be destroyed; nay, having caused the wall
to be cut away around it, they had it well braced with beams and bars of iron and deposited
below the organ of S. Pietro, in a place where there was neither altar nor any other consecrated
object. And before the wall that had been round the Madonna was pulled down, Perino copied
the figure of Orso dell' Anguillara, the Roman Senator who had crowned M. Francesco Petrarca
on the Campidoglio, and who was at the feet of that Madonna. Round the picture of the Madonna
were to be made some ornaments in stucco and painting, and together with them a memorial to
a certain Niccolò Acciaiuoli, who had formerly been a Roman Senator; and Perino, having made
the designs, straightway set his hand to the work, and, assisted by his young men and by Marcello
Mantovano, his disciple, carried it out with great diligence.

In the same S. Pietro the Sacrament did not occupy, with regard to masonry, a very honourable
position; wherefore certain deputies were appointed from the Company of the Sacrament, who
ordained that a chapel should be built in the centre of the old church by Antonio da San Gallo,
partly with remains in the form of ancient marble columns, and partly with other ornaments
of marble, bronze, and stucco, placing in the centre a tabernacle by the hand of Donatello,
by way of further adornment; and Perino executed there a very beautiful ceiling with many minute
scenes full of figures from the Old Testament, symbolical of the Sacrament. In the middle of
it, also, he painted a somewhat larger scene, containing the Last Supper of Christ with the
Apostles, and below it two Prophets, one on either side of the body of Christ.

The same master, likewise, caused his young men to paint in the Church of S. Giuseppe, near
the Ripetta, the chapel of that church, which was afterwards retouched and finished by himself;
and he also had a chapel painted after his designs in the Church of S. Bartolommeo in Isola,
which he retouched in like manner, and caused some scenes to be painted at the high-altar of
S. Salvatore del Lauro, with some grotesques on the vaulting, and likewise an Annunciation
on the façade outside, which was executed by his pupil, Girolamo Sermoneta. Thus, then, partly
because he was not able, and partly because the labour wearied him, liking to design his works
rather than to execute them, he pursued the same course that Raffaello da Urbino had formerly
followed at the end of his life. How harmful and how blameworthy is this practice, is proved
by the Chigi works and by all those carried out by other hands, and is also shown by those
that Perino caused to be executed in the same way; besides which, those works of Giulio Romano's
that he did not paint with his own hand have not done him much honour. And although this method
pleases Princes, giving them their works quickly, and perhaps benefits the craftsmen who labour
upon them, yet, if they were the ablest men in the world, they could never feel that love for
the works of others which a man feels for his own. Nor, however well drawn the cartoons may
be, can they be imitated as exactly and as thoroughly as by the hand of their author, who,
seeing the work going to ruin, in despair leaves it to fall into complete destruction. He,
then, who thirsts for honour, should do his own painting. This I can say from experience, for
after I had laboured with the greatest possible pains on the cartoons for the Hall of the Cancelleria
in the Palace of S. Giorgio in Rome, the work having to be executed with great haste in a hundred
days, a vast number of painters were employed to paint it, who departed so far from their outlines
and their true form, that I made a resolution, to which I have adhered, that from that time
onward no one should lay a hand on any works of mine. Whoever, therefore, wishes to ensure
long life for his name and his works, should undertake fewer and do them all with his own hand,
if he desires to obtain that full meed of honour that a man of exalted genius seeks to acquire.

I say, then, that Perino, by reason of the number of the labours committed to his care, was
forced to employ many persons; and he thirsted rather for gain than for glory, considering
that he had thrown away his life and had saved nothing in his youth. And it vexed him so much
to see young men coming forward to undertake work, that he sought to enroll them all under
his own command, to the end that they might not encroach on his position. Now in the year 1546
there came to Rome the Venetian Tiziano da Cadore, a painter highly celebrated for his portraits,
who, having formerly taken a portrait of Pope Paul at the time when His Holiness went to Busseto,
without exacting any remuneration either for that or for some others that he had executed for
Cardinal Farnese and Santa Fiore, was received by those prelates with the greatest honour in
the Belvedere; at which a rumour arose in the Court, and then spread throughout Rome, to the
effect that he had come in order to paint scenes with his own hand in the Hall of Kings in
the Palace, where Perino was to paint them and the stucco-work was already in progress. This
arrival caused much vexation to Perino, and he complained of it to many of his friends, not
because he believed that Tiziano was likely to surpass him at painting historical scenes in
fresco, but because he desired to occupy himself with that work peacefully and honourably until
his death, and, if he was to do it, he wished to do it without competition, the wall and the
vaulting by Michelagnolo in the Chapel close by being more than enough for him by way of comparison.
That suspicion was the reason that while Tiziano stayed in Rome, Perino always avoided him,
and remained in an ill-humour until his departure.

The Castellan of the Castello di S. Angelo, Tiberio Crispo, who was afterwards made a Cardinal,
being a person who delighted in our arts, made up his mind to beautify the Castle, and rebuilt
loggie, chambers, halls, and apartments in a very handsome manner, in order to be able to receive
His Holiness more worthily when he went there. Many rooms and other ornaments were executed
from the designs and under the direction of Raffaello da Montelupo, and then in the end by
Antonio da San Gallo, and a loggia was wrought in stucco under the supervision of Raffaello,
who also made the Angel of marble, a figure six braccia high, which was placed on the summit
of the highest tower in the Castle. Tiberio then caused the said loggia, which is the one facing
the meadows, to be painted by Girolamo Sermoneta; which finished, the rest of the rooms were
entrusted in part to Luzio Romano, and finally the halls and other important apartments were
finished partly by Perino with his own hand, and partly by others after his cartoons. The principal
hall is very pleasing and beautiful, being wrought in stucco and all filled with scenes from
Roman history, executed for the most part by Perino's young men, and not a few by the hand
of Marco da Siena, the disciple of Domenico Beccafumi; and in certain rooms there are most
beautiful friezes.

Perino, when he could find young men of ability, was wont to make use of them willingly in
his works; but for all that he never ceased to execute any commonplace commission. He very
often painted pennons for trumpets, banners for the Castle, and those of the fleet of the Militant
Order; and he executed hangings, tabards, door-curtains, and the most insignificant works of
art. He began some canvases from which tapestries were to be woven for Prince Doria, and he
painted a chapel for the very reverend Cardinal Farnese, and a writing-study for the most illustrious
Madama Margherita of Austria. He caused an ornamental frame to be made round the Madonna in
S. Maria del Pianto, and also another ornamental frame round the Madonna in Piazza Giudea;
and he executed many other works, of which, by reason of their number, I will not now make
any further mention, particularly because he was accustomed to accept any sort of work that
came to his hand. This disposition of Perino's, which was well known to the officials of the
Palace, was the reason that he always had something to do for one or another of them, and he
did it willingly, in order to bind them to himself, so that they might be obliged to serve
him in the payment of his allowances and in his other requirements. In addition to this, Perino
had acquired such authority that all the work in Rome was allotted to him, for the reason that,
besides the circumstance that it appeared to be in a certain sense his due, he would sometimes
execute commissions for the most paltry prices; whereby he did little good, nay rather, much
harm, to himself and to art. That these words are true is proved by this, that if he had undertaken
to paint the Hall of Kings in the Palace on his own account, and had worked at it together
with his own assistants, he would have saved several hundreds of crowns, which all went to
the overseers who had charge of the work and paid the daily wages to those who worked there.

Thus, having undertaken a burden so heavy and so laborious, and being infirm and enfeebled
by catarrh, he was not able to endure such discomforts, having to draw day and night and to
meet the demands of the Palace, and, among other things, to make the designs of embroideries,
of engravings for banner-makers, and of innumerable ornaments required by the caprice of Farnese
and other Cardinals and noblemen. In short, having his mind incessantly occupied, and being
always surrounded by sculptors, masters in stucco, wood-carvers, seamsters, embroiderers, painters,
gilders, and other suchlike craftsmen, he had never an hour of repose; and the only happiness
and contentment that he knew in this life was to find himself at times with some of his friends
at a tavern, which was his favourite haunt in all the places where it fell to his lot to live,
considering that this was the true blessedness and peace of this world, and the only repose
from his labours. And thus, having ruined his constitution by the fatigues of his art and by
his excesses in eating and in love, he was attacked by asthma, which, sapping his strength
little by little, finally caused him to sink into consumption; and one evening, while talking
with a friend near his house, he fell dead of an apoplectic seizure in his forty-seventh year.
At this many craftsmen felt infinite sorrow, it being a truly great loss that art suffered;
and he received honourable burial from his son-in-law, M. Gioseffo Cincio, the physician of
Madama, and from his wife, in the Chapel of S. Giuseppe in the Ritonda at Rome, with the following
epitaph:

     PERINO BONACCURSIO VAGÆ FLORENTINO, QUI INGENIO ET ARTE
     SINGULARI EGREGIOS CUM PICTORES PERMULTOS, TUM PLASTAS OMNES
     FACILE SUPERAVIT, CATHERINA PERINI CONJUGI, LAVINIA BONACCURSIA
     PARENTI, JOSEPHUS CINCIUS SOCERO CARISSIMO ET OPTIMO FECERE.
     VIXIT ANN. 46, MEN. 3, DIES 21. MORTUUS EST 14 CALEND. NOVEMB.
     ANN. CHRIST. 1547.

The place of Perino was filled by Daniello of Volterra, who had worked much with him, and who
finished the two other Prophets that are in the Chapel of the Crocifisso in S. Marcello. Daniello
has also adorned a chapel in S. Trinità most beautifully with stucco-work and painting, for
Signora Elena Orsina; with many other works, of which mention will be made in the proper place.

Perino, then, as may be seen from the works described and from many others that might be mentioned,
was one of the most versatile painters of our times, in that he assisted the craftsmen to work
excellently in stucco, and executed grotesques, landscapes, animals, and all the other things
of which a painter can have knowledge, using colours in fresco, in oils, and in distemper.
Whence it may be said that he was the father of these most noble arts, seeing that his talents
live in those who are continually imitating him in every honourable field of art. After Perino's
death were published many prints taken from his drawings, such as the Slaying of the Giants
that he executed in Genoa, eight stories of S. Peter taken from the Acts of the Apostles, of
which he made designs for the embroidering of a cope for Pope Paul III, and many other things,
which are known by the manner.

Perino made use of many young men, and taught the secrets of art to many disciples; but the
best of them all, and the one of whom he availed himself more than of any other, was Girolamo
Siciolante of Sermoneta, of whom there will be an account in the proper place. His disciple,
likewise, was Marcello Mantovano, who executed on a wall at the entrance of the Castello di
S. Angelo, after the design and under the direction of Perino, a Madonna with many Saints in
fresco, which was a very beautiful thing; but of his works as well there will be an account
elsewhere.

Perino left many designs at his death, some by his hand and some by others; among the latter,
one of the whole Chapel of Michelagnolo Buonarroti, drawn by the hand of Leonardo Cungi of
Borgo a San Sepolcro, which was an excellent work. All these designs, with other things, were
sold by his heirs; and in our book are many drawings done by him with the pen, which are very
beautiful.

FOOTNOTE:

[27] Or Perino.

[28] Vasari sometimes groups under this name all the male figures that appear in a picture
of the Deposition from the Cross.

GIORGIO VASARI TO THE CRAFTSMEN IN DESIGN

TO THE CRAFTSMEN IN DESIGN

GIORGIO VASARI

EXCELLENT AND WELL-BELOVED BROTHER-CRAFTSMEN--

So great has always been the delight, to say nothing of the profit and honour, that I have
derived from practising my hand to the best of my ability in this most noble art of ours, that
I have not only had a burning desire to exalt and to celebrate her, and to honour her in every
manner open to me, but have also been full of affection for all those who have taken the same
pleasure in her and have succeeded in practising her more happily than I, perhaps, have been
able to do. And from this my good will, so full of the most sincere affection, it appears to
me that I have gathered hitherto fruits that are an ample reward, for I have been always loved
and honoured by you all, and we have been united in the most perfect intimacy or brotherhood,
I know not which to call it; mutually showing our works to one another, I to you and you to
me, and helping one another with counsel and assistance whenever the occasion has presented
itself. Wherefore I have always felt myself deeply bound by this loving fellowship, and much
more by your excellent abilities, and no less, also, by this my inclination, by nature, and
by a most powerful attraction, to assist and serve you in every way and every matter wherein
I have considered myself able to bring you pleasure or advantage. To this end I published in
the year 1550 the Lives of our best and most famous Craftsmen, moved by a cause that has been
mentioned in another place, and also, to tell the truth, by a generous indignation that so
much talent should have been for so long a time, and should still remain, buried in oblivion.
And this my labour appears not to have been in any way unwelcome; on the contrary, so acceptable,
that, not to mention what has been said and written to me from many quarters, out of the vast
number that were printed at that time, there is not one single volume to be found at the booksellers.

Thus, therefore, receiving every day requests from many friends, and understanding no less
clearly the unexpressed desires of many others, once more, although in the midst of most important
undertakings, I have applied myself to the same labour, with the intention not only of adding
those masters who have passed to a better world between that time and the present, thus giving
me the opportunity of writing their Lives in full, but also of supplying that which may have
been wanting to the perfection of my first work. For since then I have had leisure to come
to a better knowledge of many matters, and to re-examine others, not only by the favour of
these my most illustrious Lords, whom I serve, the true refuge and protection of all the arts,
but also through the facilities that they have given me to search the whole of Italy once again
and to see and understand many things which had not before come under my notice. I have been
able, therefore, not merely to make corrections, but also to add so many things, that many
of the Lives may be said to have been almost written anew; while some, indeed, even of the
old masters, which were not there before, have been added. Nor, the better to revive the memory
of those whom I so greatly honour, have I grudged the great labour, pains and expense of seeking
out their portraits, which I have placed at the head of their Lives. And for the greater satisfaction
of many friends not of our profession, who are yet devoted lovers of art, I have included in
a compendium the greater part of the works of those who are still living and are worthy to
be for ever renowned on account of their abilities; for that scruple which formerly restrained
me can have no place here in the opinion of any thoughtful reader, since I deal with no works
save those that are excellent and worthy of praise. And this may perchance serve as a spur
to make every craftsman continue to labour worthily and advance unceasingly from good to better;
insomuch that he who shall write the rest of this history, may be able to give it more grandeur
and majesty, having occasion to describe those rarer and more perfect works which, begun from
time to time through the desire of immortality, and finished by the loving care of intellects
so divine, the world in days to come shall see issuing from your hands. And the young men who
follow with their studies, incited by hope of glory (if hope of gain has not enough force),
may perchance be inspired by such an example to attain to excellence.

And to the end that this work may prove to be in every way complete, and that there may be
no need to seek anything outside its pages, I have added a great part of the works of the most
celebrated craftsmen of antiquity, both Greek and of other nations, whose memory has been preserved
down to our own day by Pliny and other writers, without whose pens they would have been buried,
like many others, in eternal oblivion. And this consideration, also, may perchance increase
the willingness of men in general to labour valiantly, and may impel and inspire us all, as
we behold the nobility and greatness of our art, and how she has always been prized and rewarded
by all nations, and particularly by the most lofty minds and the most powerful Princes, to
leave the world adorned by works infinite in number and unsurpassed in excellence; whence,
rendered beautiful by us, it may give to us that rank which it has given to those ever marvellous
and celebrated spirits.

Accept, then, with a friendly mind, these my labours, which, whatever they may be, have been
lovingly carried to conclusion by me for the glory of art and for the honour of her craftsmen,
and take them as a sure token and pledge of my heart, which is desirous of nothing more ardently
than of your greatness and glory, in which, seeing that I also have been received by you into
your company (for which I render my thanks to you, and congratulate myself not a little on
my own account), I shall always consider myself in a certain sense a participator.

DOMENICO BECCAFUMI

LIFE OF DOMENICO BECCAFUMI OF SIENA

PAINTER AND MASTER OF CASTING

That same quality, the pure gift of nature, which has been seen in Giotto and in some others
among those painters of whom we have spoken hitherto, has been revealed most recently in Domenico
Beccafumi, the painter of Siena, in that he, while guarding some sheep for his father Pacio,
the labourer of the Sienese citizen Lorenzo Beccafumi, was observed to practise his hand by
himself, child as he was, in drawing sometimes on stones and sometimes in other ways. It happened
that the said Lorenzo saw him one day drawing various things with a pointed stick on the sand
of a small stream, where he was watching his little charges, and he asked for the child from
his father, meaning to employ him as his servant, and at the same time to have him taught.
The boy, therefore, who was then called Mecherino, having been given up by his father Pacio
to Lorenzo, was taken to Siena, where Lorenzo caused him for a while to spend all the spare
time that he had after his household duties in the workshop of a painter who was his neighbour.
This painter, who was no great craftsman, caused Mecherino to learn all that he could not himself
teach him from designs by eminent painters that he had in his possession, of which he availed
himself for his own purposes, as those masters are wont to do who are not very able in design.
Exercising his hand, therefore, in this manner, Mecherino gave promise of being destined to
become an excellent painter.

During this time Pietro Perugino, then a famous painter, came to Siena, where, as has been
related, he painted two altar-pieces; and his manner pleased Domenico greatly, so that he set
himself to study it and to copy those altar-pieces, and no long time passed before he had caught
that manner. Then, after the Chapel of Michelagnolo and the works of Raffaello da Urbino had
been thrown open in Rome, Domenico, who desired nothing so much as to learn, and knew that
he was losing his time in Siena, took leave of Lorenzo Beccafumi, from whom he acquired the
family name of Beccafumi, and made his way to Rome. There he placed himself under a painter,
who gave him board and lodging, and executed many works in company with him, giving his attention
at the same time to studying the works of Michelagnolo, Raffaello, and other eminent masters,
and the marvellous statues and sarcophagi of antiquity. No long time passed, therefore, before
he became a bold draughtsman, fertile in invention, and a very pleasing colourist; but during
this period, which did not exceed two years, he did nothing worthy of record save a façade
in the Borgo with an escutcheon of Pope Julius II in colour.

Meanwhile, there had been brought to Siena by a merchant of the Spannocchi family, as will
be related in the proper place, the painter Giovanni Antonio of Vercelli, a young man of passing
good ability, who was much employed, particularly in making portraits from life, by the gentlemen
of that city, which has always been the friend and patron of all men of talent. Domenico, who
was very desirous of returning to his own country, having heard this news, made his way back
to Siena; and when he saw that Giovanni Antonio was very well grounded in drawing, which he
knew to be the essence of the excellence of a craftsman, not resting content with what he had
done in Rome, he set himself with the utmost zeal to follow him, devoting himself much to anatomy
and to drawing nudes; which helped him so much, that in a short time he began to be greatly
esteemed in that most noble city. Nor was he beloved less for his goodness and his character
than for his art, for the reason that, whereas Giovanni Antonio was coarse, licentious, and
eccentric, being called Il Sodoma because he always mixed and lived with beardless boys, and
answering willingly enough to that name, Domenico, on the other hand, was a pattern of good
conduct and uprightness, living like a Christian and keeping very much to himself. But such
persons as are called merry fellows and good companions are very often more esteemed by men
than the virtuous and orderly, and most of the young men of Siena followed Sodoma, extolling
him as a man of originality. And this Sodoma, being an eccentric, and wishing to please the
common herd, always kept at his house parrots, apes, dwarf donkeys, little Elba horses, a talking
raven, barbs for running races, and other suchlike creatures; from which he had won such a
name among the vulgar, that they spoke of nothing but his follies.

Sodoma, then, had painted with colours in fresco the façade of the house of M. Agostino Bardi,
and Domenico at the same time, in competition with him, painted the façade of a house of the
Borghese, close to the Postierla column, near the Duomo, with which he took very great pains.
Below the roof, in a frieze in chiaroscuro, he executed some little figures that were much
extolled; and in the spaces between the three ranges of windows of travertine that adorn that
palace, he painted many ancient gods and other figures in imitation of bronze, in chiaroscuro
and in colour, which were more than passing good, although the work of Sodoma was more extolled.
Both these façades were executed in the year 1512.

Domenico afterwards painted for S. Benedetto, a seat of Monks of Monte Oliveto, without the
Porta a Tufi, an altar-piece of S. Catharine of Siena in a building receiving the Stigmata,
with a S. Benedict standing on her right hand, and on her left a S. Jerome in the habit of
a Cardinal; which altar-piece, being very soft in colouring and strong in relief, was much
praised, as it still is. In the predella of this picture, likewise, he painted some little
scenes in distemper with incredible boldness and vivacity, and with such facility of design,
that they could not be more graceful, and yet they have the appearance of having been executed
without the slightest effort in the world. In one of these little scenes is the Angel placing
in the mouth of that same S. Catharine part of the Host consecrated by the priest; in another
is Jesus Christ marrying her, in a third she is receiving the habit from S. Dominic, and there
are other stories.

For the Church of S. Martino the same master painted a large altar-piece with Christ born and
being adored by the Virgin, by Joseph, and by the Shepherds; and above the hut is a most beautiful
choir of Angels dancing. In this work, which is much extolled by craftsmen, Domenico began
to show to those who had some understanding that his works were painted with a different foundation
from those of Sodoma. He then painted in fresco, in the Great Hospital, the Madonna visiting
S. Elizabeth, in a manner very pleasing and very natural. And for the Church of S. Spirito
he executed an altar-piece of the Madonna holding in her arms the Child, who is marrying the
above-mentioned S. Catharine of Siena, and at the sides S. Bernardino, S. Francis, S. Jerome,
and S. Catharine the Virgin-Martyr, with S. Peter and S. Paul upon some marble steps in front,
on the polished surface of which he counterfeited with great art some reflections of the colour
of their draperies. This work, which was executed with fine judgment and design, brought him
much honour, as did also some little figures painted on the predella of the picture, in which
is S. John baptizing Christ, a King causing the wife and children of S. Gismondo to be thrown
into a well, S. Dominic burning the books of the heretics, Christ presenting to S. Catharine
of Siena two crowns, one of roses and the other of thorns, and S. Bernardino of Siena preaching
on the Piazza of Siena to a vast multitude.

Next, by reason of the fame of these works, there was allotted to Domenico an altar-piece that
was to be placed in the Carmine, in which he had to paint a S. Michael doing vengeance on Lucifer;
and he, being full of fancy, set himself to think out a new invention, in order to display
his talent and the beautiful conceptions of his brain. And so, seeking to represent Lucifer
and his followers driven for their pride from Heaven to the lowest depths of Hell, he began
a shower of nude figures raining down, which is very beautiful, although, from his having taken
too great pains with it, it appears if anything rather confused. This altar-piece, which remained
unfinished, was taken after the death of Domenico to the Great Hospital and placed at the top
of some steps near the high-altar, where it is still regarded with marvel on account of some
very beautiful foreshortenings in the nudes. In the Carmine, where this picture was to have
been set up, was placed another, in the upper part of which is counterfeited a God the Father
above the clouds with many Angels round Him, painted with marvellous grace; and in the centre
of the picture is the Angel Michael in armour, flying, and pointing to Lucifer, whom he has
driven to the centre of the earth, where there are burning buildings, rugged caverns, and a
lake of fire, with Angels in various attitudes, and nude figures of lost souls, who are swimming
with different gestures of agony in that fire. All this is painted with such beauty and grace
of manner, that it appears that this marvellous work, in its thick darkness, is illuminated
by the fire; wherefore it is held to be a rare picture. Baldassarre Peruzzi of Siena, an excellent
painter, could never have his fill of praising it, and I myself, one day that I saw it uncovered
in his company, while passing through Siena, was struck with astonishment by it, as I also
was by the five little scenes that are in the predella, painted with distemper in a judicious
and beautiful manner. For the Nuns of Ognissanti in the same city Domenico painted another
altar-piece, in which is Christ on high in the heavens, crowning the Glorified Virgin, and
below them are S. Gregory, S. Anthony, S. Mary Magdalene, and S. Catharine the Virgin-Martyr;
and in the predella, likewise, are some very beautiful little figures executed in distemper.

In the house of Signor Marcello Agostini Domenico painted some very lovely works in fresco
on the ceiling of an apartment, which has three lunettes on each main side and two at each
end, with a series of friezes that go right round. The centre of the ceiling is divided into
two quadrangular compartments; in the first, where a silken arras is counterfeited as upheld
by the ornament, there may be seen, as if woven upon it, Scipio Africanus restoring the young
woman untouched to her husband, and in the other the celebrated painter Zeuxis, who is copying
several nude women in order to paint his picture, which was to be placed in the Temple of Juno.
In one of the lunettes, painted with little figures only about half a braccio high, but very
beautiful, are the two Roman Brothers who, having been enemies, became friends for the public
good and for the sake of their country. In that which follows is Torquatus,[29] who, in order
to observe the laws, when his son has been condemned to lose his eyes, causes one of his son's
and one of his own to be put out. In the next is the Petition of ...,[30] who, after hearing
the recital of his crimes against his country and the Roman people, is put to death. In the
lunette beside that one is the Roman people deliberating on the expedition of Scipio to Africa;
and next to this, in another lunette, is an ancient sacrifice crowded with a variety of most
beautiful figures, with a temple drawn in perspective, which has no little relief, for in that
field Domenico was a truly excellent master. In the last is Cato killing himself after being
overtaken by some horsemen that are most beautifully painted there. And in the recesses of
the lunettes, also, are some little scenes very well finished.

The excellence of this work was the reason that Domenico was recognized as a rare painter by
those who were then governing, and was commissioned to paint the vaulting of a hall in the
Palace of the Signori, to which he devoted all the diligence, study, and effort of which any
man is capable, in order to prove his worth and to adorn that celebrated building of his native
city, which was honouring him so much. This hall, which is two squares long and one square
wide, has the ceiling made not with lunettes, but after the manner of a groined vaulting; wherefore
Domenico executed the compartments in painting, thinking that this would give the best result,
with friezes and cornices overlaid with gold, and all so beautifully, that, without any stucco-work
or other ornaments, they are so well painted and so graceful that they appear to be really
in relief. On each of the two ends of this hall there is a large picture with an historical
scene, and on each main wall there are two, one on either side of an octagon; and thus the
pictures are six and the octagons two, and in each of the latter is a scene. At each corner
of the vaulting, where the rib is, there is drawn a round compartment, which extends half on
one wall and half on the other, so that these compartments, being divided by the ribs of the
vaulting, form eight spaces, in each of which are large seated figures, representing distinguished
men who have defended their Republic and have observed her laws. The highest part of the surface
of the vaulting is divided into three parts, in such a manner as to form a circular compartment
in the centre, immediately above the octagons, and two square compartments over those on the walls.

In one of the octagons, then, is a woman with some children round her, who holds a heart in
her hand, representing the love that men owe to their country. In the other octagon is another
woman, with an equal number of children, as a symbol of civic concord. And these are one on
either side of a Justice that is in the circle, with the sword and scales in her hands, and
seen from below in such bold foreshortening that it is a marvel, for at the feet she is dark
both in drawing and in colour, and about the knees she becomes lighter, and so continues little
by little towards the torso, the shoulders, and the arms, until she rises into a celestial
splendour at the head, which makes it appear as if that figure dissolves gradually in a mist:
wherefore it is not possible to imagine, much less to see, a more beautiful figure than this
one, or one executed with greater judgment and art, among all that were ever painted to be
seen in foreshortening from below.

As for the stories, in the first, at the end of the hall and on the left hand as one enters,
are M. Lepidus and Fulvius Flaccus the Censors, who, after being at enmity with one another,
as soon as they became colleagues in the office of the Censorship, laid aside their private
hatred for the good of their country, and acted in that office like the closest friends. And
Domenico painted them on their knees, embracing each other, with many figures round them, and
with a most beautiful prospect of buildings and temples drawn in perspective so ingeniously
and so well, that one may see in them what a master of perspective was Domenico. On the next
wall there follows a picture with the story of the Dictator Postumius Tiburtius, who, having
left his only son at the head of his army in place of himself, commanding him that he should
do nothing else but guard the camp, put him to death for having been disobedient and having
with a fair occasion attacked the enemy and gained a victory. In this scene Domenico painted
Postumius as an old man with shaven face, with the right hand on his axe, and with the left
showing to the army his son lying dead upon the ground, and depicted very well in foreshortening;
and below this picture, which is most beautiful, is an inscription very well composed. In the
octagon that follows, in the centre of the wall, is the story of Spurius Cassius, whom the
Roman Senate, suspecting that he was plotting to become King, caused to be beheaded, and his
house to be pulled down; and in this scene the head, which is beside the executioner, and the
body, which is on the ground in foreshortening, are very beautiful. In the next picture is
the Tribune Publius Mucius, who caused all his fellow-tribunes, who were conspiring with Spurius
to become tyrants of their country, to be burned; and here the fire that is consuming their
bodies is painted very well and with great art.

At the other end of the hall, in another picture, is the Athenian Codrus, who, having heard
from the oracle that the victory would fall to that side whose King should be killed by the
enemy, laid aside his robes, entered unknown among the enemy, and let himself be slain, thus
giving the victory to his people by his own death. Domenico painted him seated, with his nobles
round him as he puts off his robes, near a most beautiful round temple; and in the distant
background of the picture he is seen dead, with his name in an epitaph below. Then, as one
turns to the other long wall, opposite to the two pictures with the octagon in the centre between
them, in the first scene one finds Prince Zaleucus, who, in order not to break the law, caused
one of his own eyes to be put out, and one of his son's; and here many are standing round him,
praying him that he should not do that cruelty to himself and his son, and in the distance
is his son offering violence to a maiden, and below is his name in an inscription. In the octagon
that is beside that picture is the story of Marcus Manilius being hurled down from the Capitol;
and the figure of the young Marcus, who is being thrown down from a kind of balcony, is painted
so well in foreshortening, with the head downwards, that it seems to be alive, as also seem
some figures that are below. In the next picture is Spurius Melius, who belonged to the Equestrian
Order, and was killed by the Tribune Servilius because the people suspected that he was conspiring
to become tyrant of his country; which Servilius is seated with many round him, and one who
is in the centre points to Spurius lying dead upon the ground, a figure painted with great art.

Then, in the circles at the corners, where there are the eight figures mentioned above, are
many men who have been distinguished for their defence of their country. In the first part
is the famous Fabius Maximus, seated and in armour; and on the other side is Speusippus, Prince
of the Tegeatæ, who, being exhorted by a friend that he should rid himself of his rival and
adversary, answered that he did not wish, at the bidding of his own private interest, to deprive
his country of such a citizen. In the circle that is at the next corner, in one part, there
is the Prætor Celius, who, for having fought against the advice and wish of the soothsayers,
although he had won and had gained a victory, was punished by the Senate; and beside him sits
Thrasybulus, who with the aid of some friends valorously slew thirty tyrants, in order to free
his country. Thrasybulus is an old man, shaven, with white locks, and has his name written
beneath him, as have also all the others. In a circle at one corner of the lower end of the
hall is the Prætor Genutius Cippus, who having had a bird with wings in the form of horns miraculously
alight on his head, was told by the oracle that he would become King of his country, whereupon,
although already an old man, he chose to go into exile, in order not to take away her liberty;
and Domenico therefore painted a bird upon his head. Beside him sits Charondas, who, having
returned from the country, and having gone straightway into the Senate without disarming himself,
in violation of a law which ordained that one who entered the Senate with arms should be put
to death, killed himself on perceiving his error. In the second circle on the other side are
Damon and Phintias, whose unexampled friendship is so well known, and with them is Dionysius,
Tyrant of Sicily; and beside these figures sits Brutus, who from love of his country condemned
his two sons to death, because they were conspiring to bring the Tarquins back to their country.

This work, then, so truly extraordinary, made known to the people of Siena the ability and
worth of Domenico, who showed most beautiful art, judgment, and genius in all that he did.

The first time that the Emperor Charles V came to Italy, it was expected that he would go to
Siena, for he had declared such an intention to the Ambassadors of that Republic; and among
other vast and magnificent preparations that were made for the reception of so great an Emperor,
Domenico fashioned a horse eight braccia high and in full relief, all of paste-board and hollow
within. The weight of that horse was supported by an armature of iron, and upon it was the
statue of the Emperor, armed in the ancient fashion, with a sword in his hand. And below it
were three large figures--vanquished by him, as it were--which also supported part of the weight,
the horse being in the act of leaping with the front legs high in the air; which three figures
represented three provinces conquered and subdued by the Emperor. In that work Domenico showed
that he was a master no less of sculpture than of painting; to which it must be added that
he had placed the whole work upon a wooden structure four braccia high, with a number of wheels
below it, which, being set in motion by men concealed within, caused the whole to move forward;
and the design of Domenico was that at the entry of His Majesty this horse, having been set
in motion as has been described, should accompany him from the gate as far as the Palace of
the Signori, and should then come to rest in the middle of the Piazza. This horse, after being
carried by Domenico so near completion that there only remained to gild it, was left in that
condition, because His Majesty after all did not at that time go to Siena, but left Italy after
being crowned at Bologna; and the work remained unfinished. But none the less the art and ingenuity
of Domenico were recognized, and all men greatly praised the grandeur and excellence of that
great structure, which stood in the Office of Works of the Duomo from that time until His Majesty,
returning from his victorious enterprise in Africa, passed through Messina and then Naples,
Rome, and finally Siena; at which time Domenico's work was placed on the Piazza del Duomo,
to his great honour.

The fame of the ability of Domenico being thus spread abroad, Prince Doria, who was with the
Court, after seeing all the works by his hand that were in Siena, besought him that he should
go to Genoa to work in his palace, where Perino del Vaga, Giovanni Antonio of Pordenone, and
Girolamo da Treviso had worked. But Domenico could not promise that lord that he would go to
serve him at that time, although he engaged himself for another time, for in those days he
had set his hand to finishing a part of the marble pavement in the Duomo, which Duccio, the
painter of Siena, had formerly begun in a new manner of work. The figures and scenes were already
in great part designed on the marble, the outlines being hollowed out with the chisel and filled
with a black mixture, with ornaments of coloured marble all around, and likewise the grounds
for the figures. But Domenico, with fine judgment, saw that this work could be much improved,
and he therefore took grey marbles, to the end that these, profiled with the chisel and placed
beside the brilliancy of the white marble, might give the middle shades; and he found that
in this way, with white and grey marble, pictures of stone could be made with great perfection
after the manner of chiaroscuro. Having then made a trial, the work succeeded so well in invention,
in solidity of design, and in abundance of figures, that he made a beginning after this fashion
with the grandest, the most beautiful, and the most magnificent pavement that had ever been
made; and in the course of his life, little by little, he executed a great part of it. Round
the high-altar he made a border of pictures, in which, in order to follow the order of the
stories begun by Duccio, he executed scenes from Genesis; namely, Adam and Eve expelled from
Paradise and tilling the earth, the Sacrifice of Abel, and that of Melchizedek. In front of
the altar is a large scene with Abraham about to sacrifice Isaac, and this has round it a border
of half-length figures, carrying various animals which they seem to be going to sacrifice.
Descending the steps, one finds another large picture, which serves to accompany that above,
and in it Domenico represented Moses receiving the Laws from God on Mount Sinai; and below
this is the scene when, having found the people worshipping the Golden Calf, he is seized with
anger and breaks the Tables on which those Laws were written. Below this scene, opposite to
the pulpit, and right across the church, is a frieze with a great number of figures, which
is composed with so much grace and such design that it defies description; and in this is Moses,
who, striking the rock in the desert, causes water to gush out and gives drink to his thirsty
people. Here, along the whole length of the frieze, Domenico represented the stream of water,
from which the people are drinking in various ways with a vivacity so pleasing, that it is
almost impossible to imagine any effect more lovely, or figures in more graceful and beautiful
attitudes than are those in this scene--some stooping to the ground to drink, some kneeling
before the rock that is spouting with water, some drawing it in vases and others in cups, and
others, finally, drinking with their hands. There are, moreover, some who are leading animals
to drink, amid the great rejoicing of that people; and, among other things, most marvellous
is a little boy who has taken a little dog by the head and neck and plunges its muzzle into
the water, in order to make it drink, after which the dog, having drunk, and not wishing to
drink any more, shakes its head so naturally that it seems to be alive. In short, this frieze
is so beautiful, that for a work of that kind it could not be executed with greater art, seeing
that the various kinds of shadows that may be seen in these figures are not merely beautiful,
but miraculous; and although the whole work, on account of the fantastic nature of its craftsmanship,
is one of great beauty, this part is held to be the most beautiful and the best. Below the
cupola, moreover, there is a hexagonal compartment, which is divided into seven hexagons and
six rhombs, of which hexagons Domenico finished four before he died, representing in them the
stories and sacrifices of Elijah, and doing all this much at his leisure, because this work
was as a school and a pastime to Domenico, nor did he ever abandon it altogether for his other
works.

While he was thus labouring now at this work and now elsewhere, he painted a large altar-piece
in oils which is in S. Francesco on the right hand as one enters into the church, containing
Christ descending in Glory to the Limbo of Hell in order to deliver the Holy Fathers; wherein,
among many nudes, is a very beautiful Eve, and a Thief who is behind Christ with the cross
is a very well-executed figure, while the cavern of Limbo and the demons and fires of that
place are fantastic to a marvel. And since Domenico was of the opinion that pictures painted
in distemper preserved their freshness better than those painted in oils, saying that it seemed
to him that the works of Luca da Cortona, of the Pollaiuoli, and of the other masters who painted
in oils in those days, had suffered from age more than those of Fra Giovanni, Fra Filippo,
Benozzo, and the others before their time who painted in distemper--for this reason, I say,
having to paint an altar-piece for the Company of S. Bernardino on the Piazza di S. Francesco,
he resolved to do it in distemper; and in this way he executed it excellently well, painting
in it Our Lady with many Saints. In the predella, which is very beautiful, and painted by him
likewise in distemper, he depicted S. Francis receiving the Stigmata; S. Anthony of Padua,
who, in order to convert some heretics, performs the miracle of the Ass, which makes obeisance
before the sacred Host; and S. Bernardino of Siena, who is preaching to the people of his city
on the Piazza de' Signori. And on the walls of this Company, also, he painted two stories of
Our Lady in fresco, in competition with some others that Sodoma had executed in the same place.
In one he represented the Visitation of S. Elizabeth, and in the other the Passing of Our Lady,
with the Apostles all around; and both of these are much extolled.

Finally, after having been long expected in Genoa by Prince Doria, Domenico made his way there,
but with great reluctance, being a man who was accustomed to a life of peace and contented
with that which his wants required, and nothing more; besides which, he was not much used to
making journeys, for the reason that, having built himself a little house in Siena, and having
also a vineyard a mile beyond the Porta a Camollia, which he cultivated with his own hand as
a recreation, going there often, it was a long time since he had gone far from Siena. Having
then arrived in Genoa, he painted a scene there, beside that of Pordenone, in which he succeeded
very well, and yet not in such a manner that it could be counted among his best works. But,
since the ways of the Court did not please him, being used to a life of freedom, he did not
stay very willingly in that place, and, indeed, appeared as if he were stupefied. Wherefore,
having come to the end of that work, he sought leave of the Prince and set out to return home;
and passing by Pisa, in order to see that city, he met with Battista del Cervelliera and was
shown all the most noteworthy things in the city, and in particular the altar-pieces of Sogliani
and the pictures that are in the recess behind the high-altar of the Duomo.

Meanwhile Sebastiano della Seta, the Warden of Works of the Duomo, having heard from Cervelliera
of the qualities and abilities of Domenico, and being desirous to finish the work so long delayed
by Giovanni Antonio Sogliani, allotted two of the pictures for that recess to Domenico, to
the end that he might execute them at Siena and send them finished to Pisa; and so it was done.
In one is Moses, who, having found that the people had sacrificed to the Golden Calf, is breaking
the Tables; and in this Domenico painted some nudes that are figures of great beauty. In the
other is the same Moses, with the earth opening and swallowing up a part of the people; and
in this, also, are some nudes killed by flaming thunderbolts, which are marvellous. These pictures,
when taken to Pisa, led to Domenico painting four pictures for the front of that recess--namely,
two on each side--of the four Evangelists, which were four very beautiful figures. Whereupon
Sebastiano della Seta, who saw that he had been served quickly and well, commissioned Domenico,
after these pictures, to paint the altar-piece of one of the chapels in the Duomo, Sogliani
having by that time painted four. Settling in Pisa, therefore, Domenico painted in that altar-piece
Our Lady in the sky with the Child in her arms, upon some clouds supported by some little Angels,
with many Saints both male and female below, all executed passing well, but yet not with that
perfection which marked the pictures described above. But he, excusing himself for this to
many of his friends, and particularly on one occasion to Giorgio Vasari, said that since he
was away from the air of Siena and from certain comforts of his own, he did not seem to be
able to do anything.

Having therefore returned home, determined that he would never again go away to work elsewhere,
he painted for the Nuns of S. Paolo, near S. Marco, an altar-piece in oils of the Nativity
of Our Lady, with some nurses, and S. Anne in a bed that is foreshortened and represented as
standing within a door; and in a dark shadow is a woman who is drying clothes, without any
other light but that which comes from the blaze of the fire. In the predella, which is full
of charm, are three scenes in distemper--the Presentation of the Virgin at the Temple, her
Marriage, and the Adoration of the Magi. In the Mercanzia, a tribunal in that city, the officials
have a little altar-piece which they say was painted by Domenico when he was young; it is very
beautiful, and it contains in the centre a S. Paul seated, and on one side his Conversion,
in little figures, and on the other the scene of his Beheading.

Finally, Domenico was commissioned to paint the great recess of the Duomo, which is at the
end behind the high-altar. In this he first made a decoration of stucco with foliage and figures,
all with his own hand, and two Victories in the vacant spaces in the semicircle; which decoration
was in truth a very rich and beautiful work. Then in the centre he painted in fresco the Ascension
of Christ into Heaven; and from the cornice downwards he painted three pictures divided by
columns in relief, and executed in perspective. In the middle picture, which has above it an
arch in perspective, are Our Lady, S. Peter, and S. John; and in the spaces at the sides are
ten Apostles, five on each side, all in various attitudes and gazing at Christ, who is ascending
into Heaven; and above each of the two pictures of the Apostles is an Angel in foreshortening,
the two together representing those two Angels who, after the Ascension, declared that He had
risen into Heaven. This work is certainly admirable, but it would have been even more so if
Domenico had given beautiful expressions to the heads; as it is, they have something in the
expressions that is not very pleasing, and it appears that in his old age he adopted for his
countenances an expression of terror by no means agreeable. This work, I say, if there had
been any beauty in the heads, would have been so beautiful that there would have been nothing
better to be seen. But in this matter of the expressions of the heads, in the opinion of the
people of Siena, Sodoma was superior to Domenico, for the reason that Sodoma made them much
more beautiful, although those of Domenico had more design and greater force. And, in truth,
the manner of the heads in these our arts is of no little importance, and by painting them
with graceful and beautiful expressions many masters have escaped the censure that they might
have incurred for the rest of their work.

This was the last work in painting executed by Domenico, who, having taken it into his head
in the end to work in relief, began to give his attention to casting in bronze, and went so
far with this that he executed, although with extraordinary labour, six Angels of bronze in
the round, little less than life-size, for the six columns nearest the high-altar of the Duomo.
These Angels, which are very beautiful, are holding tazze, or rather little basins, which support
candelabra containing lights, and in the last of them he acquitted himself so well, that he
was very highly praised for them. Whereupon, growing in courage, he made a beginning with figures
of the twelve Apostles, which were to be placed on the columns lower down, where there are
now some of marble, old and in a bad manner; but he did not continue them, for he did not live
long after that. And since he was a man of infinite ingenuity, and succeeded well in everything,
he engraved wood-blocks by himself in order to make prints in chiaroscuro, and there are to
be seen prints of two Apostles engraved by him excellently well, of which we have one in our
book of drawings, together with some sheets drawn divinely by his hand. He also engraved copper-plates
with the burin, and he executed with aquafortis some very fanciful little stories of alchemy,
in which Jove and the other Gods, wishing to congeal Mercury, place him bound in a crucible,
and Vulcan and Pluto make fire around him; but when they think that he must be fixed, Mercury
flies away and goes off in smoke.

Domenico, in addition to the works described above, executed many others of no great importance,
pictures of the Madonna and other suchlike chamber-pictures, such as a Madonna that is in the
house of the Chevalier Donati, and a picture in distemper in which Jove changes himself into
a shower of gold and rains into the lap of Danaë. Piero Catanei, likewise, has a round picture
in oils of a very beautiful Virgin by the hand of the same master. He also painted a most beautiful
bier for the Confraternity of S. Lucia, and likewise another for that of S. Antonio; nor should
anyone be astonished that I make mention of such works, for the reason that they are beautiful
to a marvel, as all know who have seen them.

Finally, having come to the age of sixty-five, he hastened the end of his life by toiling all
by himself day and night at his castings in metal, polishing them himself without calling in
any assistance. He died, then, on the 18th of May, 1549, and was given burial by his dearest
friend, the goldsmith Giuliano, in the Duomo, where he had executed so many rare works. And
he was carried to the tomb by all the craftsmen of his city, which recognized even then the
great loss that she had suffered in the death of Domenico, and now, as she admires his works,
recognizes it more than ever.

Domenico was an orderly and upright person, fearing God and studious in his art, although solitary
beyond measure; wherefore he well deserved to be honourably celebrated by his fellow-citizens
of Siena, who have always won great praise by their attention to noble studies and to poetry,
with verses both in Latin and in the vulgar tongue.

FOOTNOTE:

[29] Zaleucus.

[30] Here there is a blank in the text.

GIOVANNI ANTONIO LAPPOLI

LIFE OF GIOVANNI ANTONIO LAPPOLI

PAINTER OF AREZZO

Rarely does it happen that from an old stock there fails to sprout some good shoot, which,
growing with time, revives and reclothes with its leaves that desolate stem, and reveals with
its fruits to those who taste them the same savour that was once known in the ancient tree.
And that this is true is proved in this present Life of Giovanni Antonio, who, at the death
of his father Matteo, who was a painter of passing good repute in his day, was left with a
good income under the guardianship of his mother, and lived thus up to the age of twelve. Having
come to that period of his life, and not caring to choose any other pursuit than that of painting,
to which he was drawn, besides other reasons, by a wish to follow the footsteps of his father
in that art, Giovanni Antonio began to learn the first rudiments of design under Domenico Pecori,
a painter of Arezzo, who had been, together with his father Matteo, a disciple of Clemente,[31]
and who was his first master. Then, after having been some time with him, desiring to make
greater proficience than he was making under the discipline of that master and in that place,
where he was not able to learn by himself, although he had a strong natural inclination, he
turned his thoughts towards the idea of settling in Florence. To this intention, not to mention
that he was left alone by the death of his mother, Fortune was favourable enough, for a young
sister that he had was married to Leonardo Ricoveri, one of the first and richest citizens
that there were at that time in Arezzo; and so he went off to Florence.

There, among the works of many that he saw, the manner of Andrea del Sarto and of Jacopo da
Pontormo pleased him more than that of all the others who had worked at painting in that city.
Wherefore he resolved to place himself under one of those two, and was hesitating as to which
of them he should choose as his master, when there were uncovered the Faith and Charity painted
by Pontormo over the portico of the Nunziata in Florence, and he became fully determined to
go to work under Pontormo, thinking that his manner was so beautiful that it might be expected
that Jacopo, who was still a young man, was destined to surpass all the young painters of his
own age, as, indeed, was the firm belief of everyone at that time. Lappoli, then, although
he might have gone to work under Andrea, for the said reasons attached himself to Pontormo,
under whose discipline he was for ever drawing, spurred to incredible exertions, out of emulation,
by two motives. One of these was the presence of Giovan Maria dal Borgo a San Sepolcro, who
was studying design and painting under the same master, and who, always advising him for his
own good, brought it about that he changed his manner and adopted the good manner of Pontormo.
The other--and this spurred him more strongly--was the sight of Agnolo, who was called Bronzino,
being much brought forward by Jacopo on account of his loving submissiveness and goodness and
the untiring diligence that he showed in imitating his master's works, not to mention that
he drew very well and acquitted himself in colouring in such a manner, that he aroused hopes
that he was destined to attain to that excellence and perfection which have been seen in him,
and still are seen, in our own day.

Giovanni Antonio, then, being desirous to learn, and impelled by the reasons mentioned above,
spent many months in making drawings and copies of the works of Jacopo da Pontormo, which were
so well executed, so good, and so beautiful, that it is certain that if he had persevered,
what with the assistance that he had from Nature, his wish to become eminent, the force of
competition, and the good manner of his master, he would have become most excellent; and to
this some drawings in red chalk by his hand, which may be seen in our book, can bear witness.
But pleasure, as may often be seen to happen, is in young men generally the enemy of excellence,
and brings it about that their intellects are led astray; wherefore he who is engaged in the
studies of any faculty, science, or art whatsoever should have no relations save with those
who are of the same profession, and good and orderly besides. Giovanni Antonio, then, in order
that he might be looked after, had gone to live in the house of one Ser Raffaello di Sandro,
a lame chaplain, in S. Lorenzo, to whom he paid so much a year, and he abandoned in great measure
the study of painting, for the reason that the priest was a man of the world, delighting in
pictures, music, and other diversions, and many persons of talent frequented the rooms that
he had at S. Lorenzo; among others, M. Antonio da Lucca, a most excellent musician and performer
on the lute, at that time a very young man, from whom Giovanni learned to play the lute. And
although the painter Rosso and some others of the profession also frequented the same place,
Lappoli attached himself rather to the others than to the men of his art, from whom he might
have learned much, while at the same time amusing himself. Through these distractions, therefore,
the love of painting of which Giovanni Antonio had given proof cooled off in great measure;
but none the less, being the friend of Pier Francesco di Jacopo di Sandro, who was a disciple
of Andrea del Sarto, he went sometimes with him to the Scalzo to draw the pictures and nudes
from life. And no long time passed before he applied himself to colouring and executed pictures
of Jacopo's, and then by himself some Madonnas and portraits from life, among which were that
of the above-mentioned M. Antonio da Lucca and that of Ser Raffaello, which are very good.

In the year 1523, the plague being in Rome, Perino del Vaga came to Florence, and he also settled
down to lodge with Ser Raffaello del Zoppo; wherefore Giovanni Antonio having formed a strait
friendship with him and having recognized the ability of Perino, there was reawakened in his
mind the desire to attend to painting, abandoning all other pleasures, and he resolved when
the plague had ceased to go with Perino to Rome. But this design was never fulfilled, for the
plague having come to Florence, at the very moment when Perino had finished the scene of the
Submersion of Pharaoh in the Red Sea, painted in the colour of bronze in chiaroscuro for Ser
Raffaello, during the execution of which Lappoli was always present, they were forced both
the one and the other to fly from Florence, in order not to lose their lives there.

Thereupon Giovanni Antonio returned to Arezzo, and set himself, in order to pass the time,
to paint on canvas the scene of the death of Orpheus, killed by the Bacchantes: he set himself,
I say, to paint this scene in chiaroscuro of the colour of bronze, after the manner in which
he had seen Perino paint the picture mentioned above, and when the work was finished it brought
him no little praise. He then set to work to finish an altar-piece that his former master Domenico
Pecori had begun for the Nuns of S. Margherita: in which altar-piece, now to be seen in their
convent, he painted an Annunciation. And he made two cartoons for two portraits from life from
the waist upwards, both very beautiful; one was Lorenzo d' Antonio di Giorgio, at that time
a pupil and a very handsome youth, and the other was Ser Piero Guazzesi, who was a convivial
person.

The plague having finally somewhat abated, Cipriano d' Anghiari, a rich man of Arezzo, who
in those days had caused a chapel with ornaments and columns of grey-stone to be built in the
Abbey of S. Fiore at Arezzo, allotted the altar-piece to Giovanni Antonio at the price of one
hundred crowns. Meanwhile, Rosso passed through Arezzo on his way to Rome, and lodged with
Giovanni Antonio, who was very much his friend; and, hearing of the work that he had undertaken
to do, he made at the request of Lappoli a very beautiful little sketch full of nudes. Whereupon
Giovanni Antonio, setting his hand to the work and imitating the design of Rosso, painted in
that altar-piece the Visitation of S. Elizabeth, and in the lunette above it a God the Father
and some children, copying the draperies and all the rest from life. And when he had brought
it to completion, he was much praised and commended for it, and above all for some heads copied
from life, painted in a good manner and with much profit to himself.

Then, recognizing that if he wished to make greater proficience in his art he must take his
leave of Arezzo, he determined, after the plague had ceased entirely in Rome, to go to that
city, where he knew that Perino, Rosso, and many others of his friends had already returned
and were employed in a number of important works. While of this mind, a convenient occasion
of going there presented itself to him, for there arrived in Arezzo M. Paolo Valdambrini, the
Secretary of Pope Clement VII, who, in returning from France in great haste, passed through
Arezzo in order to see his brothers and nephews; and when Giovanni Antonio had gone to visit
him, M. Paolo, who was desirous that there should be in his native city of Arezzo men distinguished
in all the arts, who might demonstrate the genius which that air and that sky give to those
who are born there, exhorted him, although there was not much need for exhortation, that he
should go in his company to Rome, where he would obtain for him every convenience to enable
him to attend to the studies of his art. Having therefore gone with M. Paolo to Rome, he found
there Perino, Rosso, and others of his friends; and besides this he was able by means of M.
Paolo to make the acquaintance of Giulio Romano, Sebastiano Viniziano, and Francesco Mazzuoli
of Parma, who arrived in Rome about that time. This Francesco, delighting to play the lute,
and therefore conceiving a very great affection for Giovanni Antonio and consorting continually
with him, brought it about that Lappoli set himself with great zeal to draw and paint and to
profit by the good fortune that he enjoyed in being the friend of the best painters that there
were in Rome at that time. And he had already carried almost to completion a picture containing
a Madonna of the size of life, which M. Paolo wished to present to Pope Clement in order to
make Lappoli known to him, when, as Fortune would have it, who often sets herself in opposition
to the designs of mankind, there took place on the 6th of May, in the year 1527, the accursed
sack of Rome. On that miserable day M. Paolo galloped on horseback, and Giovanni Antonio with
him, to the Porta di S. Spirito in the Trastevere, in order to prevent the soldiers of Bourbon
for a time from entering by that gate; and there M. Paolo was killed and Lappoli was taken
prisoner by the Spaniards. And in a short time, everything being given over to sack, the picture
was lost, together with the designs executed in the chapel and all that poor Giovanni Antonio
possessed. He, after having been much tormented by the Spaniards to induce him to pay a ransom,
escaped in his shirt one night with some other prisoners, and, after suffering desperate hardships
and running in great danger of his life, because the roads were not safe, finally made his
way to Arezzo, where he was received by M. Giovanni Pollastra, a man of great learning, who
was his uncle; but he had all that he could do to recover himself, so broken was he by terror
and suffering.

Then in the same year there came upon Arezzo the great plague in which four hundred persons
died every day, and Giovanni Antonio was forced once more to fly, all in despair and very loth
to go, and to stay for some months out of the city. But finally, when that pestilence had abated
to such an extent that people could begin to mix together, a certain Fra Guasparri, a Conventual
Friar of S. Francis, who was then Guardian of their convent in that city, commissioned Giovanni
Antonio to paint the altar-piece of the high-altar in that church for one hundred crowns, stipulating
that he should represent in it the Adoration of the Magi. Whereupon Lappoli, hearing that Rosso,
having also fled from Rome, was at Borgo a San Sepolcro, and was there executing an altar-piece
for the Company of S. Croce, went to visit him; and after showing him many courtesies and causing
some things to be brought for him from Arezzo, of which he knew him to stand in need, since
he had lost everything in the sack of Rome, he obtained for himself from Rosso a very beautiful
design of the above-mentioned altar-piece that he had to paint for Fra Guasparri. And when
he had returned to Arezzo he set his hand to the work, and finished it within a year from the
day of the commission, according to the agreement, and that so well, that he was very highly
praised for it. That design of Rosso's passed afterwards into the hands of Giorgio Vasari,
and from him to the very reverend Don Vincenzio Borghini, Director of the Hospital of the Innocenti
in Florence, who has it in his book of drawings by various painters.

Not long afterwards, having become surety for Rosso to the amount of three hundred crowns,
in the matter of some pictures that the said Rosso was to paint in the Madonna delle Lagrime,
Giovanni Antonio found himself in a very evil pass, for Rosso went away without finishing the
work, as has been related in his Life, and Lappoli was constrained to restore the money; and
if his friends had not helped him, and particularly Giorgio Vasari, who valued at three hundred
crowns the part that Rosso had left finished, Giovanni Antonio would have been little less
than ruined in his effort to do honour and benefit to his native city. These difficulties over,
Lappoli painted an altar-piece in oils containing the Madonna, S. Bartholomew, and S. Matthew
at the commission of Abbot Camaiani of Bibbiena, for a chapel in the lower church at S. Maria
del Sasso, a seat of the Preaching Friars in the Casentino; and he acquitted himself very well,
counterfeiting the manner of Rosso. And this was the reason that a Confraternity at Bibbiena
afterwards caused him to paint on a banner for carrying in processions a nude Christ with the
Cross on His shoulder, who is shedding blood into the Chalice, and on the other side an Annunciation,
which was one of the best things that he ever did.

In the year 1534, Duke Alessandro de' Medici being expected in Arezzo, the Aretines, with Luigi
Guicciardini, the commissary in that city, wishing to honour the Duke, ordained that two comedies
should be performed. The charge of arranging one of those festivals was in the hands of a Company
of the most noble young men in the city, who called themselves the Umidi; and the preparations
and scenery for this comedy, which had for its subject the Intronati of Siena, were made by
Niccolò Soggi, who was much extolled for them, and the comedy was performed very well and with
infinite satisfaction to all who saw it. The festive preparations for the other were executed
in competition by another Company of young men, likewise noble, who called themselves the Company
of the Infiammati. And they, in order to be praised no less than the Umidi, performed a comedy
by M. Giovanni Pollastra, a poet of Arezzo, under his management, and entrusted the making
of the scenery to Giovanni Antonio, who acquitted himself consummately well; and thus their
comedy was performed with great honour to that Company and to the whole city. Nor must I pass
over a lovely notion of that poet's, who was certainly a man of beautiful ingenuity. While
the preparations for these and other festivals were in progress, on many occasions the young
men of the two Companies, out of rivalry and for various other reasons, had come to blows,
and several disputes had arisen; wherefore Pollastra arranged a surprise (keeping the matter
absolutely secret), which was as follows. When all the people, with the gentlemen and their
ladies, had assembled in the place where the comedy was to be performed, four of those young
men who had come to blows with one another in the city on other occasions, dashing out with
naked swords and cloaks wound round their arms, began to shout on the stage and to pretend
to kill one another: and the first of them to be seen rushed out with one temple as it were
smeared with blood, crying out: "Come forth, traitors!" At which uproar all the people rose
to their feet, men began to lay hands on their weapons, and the kinsmen of the young men, who
appeared to be giving each other fearful thrusts, ran towards the stage; when he who had come
out first, turning towards the other young men, said: "Hold your hands, gentlemen, and sheathe
your swords, for I have taken no harm; and although we are at daggers drawn and you believe
that the play will not be performed, yet it will take place, and I, wounded as I am, will now
begin the Prologue." And so after this jest, by which all the spectators and the actors themselves,
only excepting the four mentioned above, were taken in, the comedy was begun and played so
well, that afterwards, in the year 1540, when the Lord Duke Cosimo and the Lady Duchess Leonora
were in Arezzo, Giovanni Antonio had to prepare the scenery anew on the Piazza del Vescovado
and have it performed before their Excellencies. And even as the performers had given satisfaction
on the first occasion, so at that time they gave so much satisfaction to the Lord Duke, that
they were afterwards invited to Florence to perform at the next Carnival. In these two scenic
preparations, then, Lappoli acquitted himself very well, and he was very highly praised.

He then made an ornament after the manner of a triumphal arch, with scenes in the colour of
bronze, which was placed about the altar of the Madonna delle Chiavi. After a time Giovanni
Antonio settled in Arezzo, fully determined, now that he had a wife and children, to go roaming
no more, and living on his income and on the offices that the citizens of that city enjoy;
and so he continued without working much. Not long, indeed, after these events, he sought to
obtain the commissions for two altar-pieces that were to be painted in Arezzo, one for the
Church and Company of S. Rocco, and the other for the high-altar of S. Domenico; but he did
not succeed, for the reason that both those pictures were allotted to Giorgio Vasari, whose
designs, among the many that were made, gave more satisfaction than any of the others. For
the Company of the Ascension in that city Giovanni Antonio painted on a banner for carrying
in processions Christ in the act of Resurrection, with many soldiers round the Sepulchre, and
His Ascension into Heaven, with the Madonna surrounded by the twelve Apostles, which was all
executed very well and with diligence. At Castello della Pieve he painted an altar-piece in
oils of the Visitation of Our Lady, with some Saints about her, and in an altar-piece that
was painted for the Pieve a San Stefano he depicted the Madonna and other Saints; which two
works Lappoli executed much better than the others that he had painted up to that time, because
he had been able to see at his leisure many works in relief and casts taken in gesso from the
statues of Michelagnolo and from other ancient works, and brought by Giorgio Vasari to his
house at Arezzo. The same master painted some pictures of Our Lady, which are dispersed throughout
Arezzo and other places, and a Judith who is placing the head of Holofernes in a basket held
by her serving-woman, which now belongs to Mons. M. Bernardetto Minerbetti, Bishop of Arezzo,
who loved Giovanni Antonio much, as he loves all other men of talent, and received from him,
besides other things, a young S. John the Baptist in the desert, almost wholly naked, which
is held dear by him, since it is an excellent figure.

Finally, recognizing that perfection in this art consists in nothing else but seeking in good
time to become rich in invention and to study the nude continually, and thus to render facile
the difficulties of execution, Giovanni Antonio repented that he had not spent in the study
of art the time that he had given to his pleasures, perceiving that what can be done easily
in youth cannot be done well in old age. But although he was always conscious of his error,
yet he did not recognize it fully until, having set himself to study when already an old man,
he saw a picture in oils, fourteen braccia long and six braccia and a half high, executed in
forty-two days by Giorgio Vasari, who painted it for the Refectory of the Monks of the Abbey
of S. Fiore at Arezzo; in which work are painted the Nuptials of Esther and King Ahasuerus,
and there are in it more than sixty figures larger than life. Going therefore at times to see
Giorgio at work, and staying to discourse with him, Giovanni Antonio said: "Now I see that
continual study and work is what lifts men out of laborious effort, and that our art does not
come down upon us like the Holy Ghost."

Giovanni Antonio did not work much in fresco, for the reason that the colours changed too much
to please him; nevertheless, there may be seen over the Church of Murello a Pietà with two
little naked Angels by his hand, executed passing well. Finally, after having lived like a
man of good judgment and one not unpractised in the ways of the world, he fell sick of a most
violent fever at the age of sixty, in the year 1552, and died.

A disciple of Giovanni Antonio was Bartolommeo Torri, the scion of a not ignoble family in
Arezzo, who, making his way to Rome, and placing himself under Don Giulio Clovio, a most excellent
miniaturist, devoted himself in so thorough a manner to design and to the study of the nude,
but most of all to anatomy, that he became an able master, and was held to be the best draughtsman
in Rome. And it is not long since Don Silvano Razzi related to me that Don Giulio Clovio had
told him in Rome, after having praised this young man highly, the very thing that he has often
declared to me--namely, that he had turned him out of his house for no other reason but his
filthy anatomy, for he kept so many limbs and pieces of men under his bed and all over his
rooms, that they poisoned the whole house. Besides this, by neglecting himself and thinking
that living like an unwashed philosopher, accepting no rule of life, and avoiding the society
of other men, was the way to become great and immortal, he ruined himself completely; for nature
will not tolerate the unreasonable outrages that some men at times do to her. Having therefore
fallen ill at the age of twenty-five, Bartolommeo returned to Arezzo, in order to regain his
health and to seek to build himself up again; but he did not succeed, for he continued his
usual studies and the same irregularities, and in four months, a little after the death of
Giovanni Antonio, he died and went to join him.

The loss of this young man was an infinite grief to the whole city, for if he had lived, to
judge from the great promise of his works, he was like to do extraordinary honour to his native
place and to all Tuscany; and whoever sees any of the drawings that he made when still a mere
lad, stands marvelling at them and full of compassion for his untimely death.

FOOTNOTE:

[31] Don Bartolommeo della Gatta, Abbot of S. Clemente.

NICCOLÒ SOGGI

LIFE OF NICCOLÒ SOGGI

PAINTER

Among the many who were disciples of Pietro Perugino, there was not one, after Raffaello da
Urbino, who was more studious or more diligent than Niccolò Soggi, whose Life we are now about
to write. This master was born in Florence, the son of Jacopo Soggi, a worthy person, but not
very rich; and in time he entered the service of M. Antonio dal Monte in Rome, because Jacopo
had a farm at Marciano in Valdichiana, and, passing most of his time there, associated not
a little with that same M. Antonio dal Monte, their properties being near together.

Jacopo, then, perceiving that this son of his was much inclined to painting, placed him with
Pietro Perugino; and in a short time, by means of continual study, he learned so much that
it was not long before Pietro began to make use of him in his works, to the great advantage
of Niccolò, who devoted himself in such a manner to drawing in perspective and copying from
nature, that he afterwards became very excellent in both the one field and the other. Niccolò
also gave much attention to making models of clay and wax, over which he laid draperies and
soaked parchment: which was the reason that he rendered his manner so dry, that he always held
to the same as long as he lived, nor could he ever get rid of it for all the pains that he took.

The first work that this Niccolò executed after the death of his master Pietro was an altar-piece
in oils in the Hospital for Women, founded by Bonifazio Lupi, in the Via San Gallo at Florence--that
is, the side behind the altar, wherein is the Angel saluting Our Lady, with a building drawn
in perspective, in which there are arches and a groined vaulting rising above pilasters after
the manner of Pietro. Then, in the year 1512, after having executed many pictures of Our Lady
for the houses of citizens, and other little works such as are painted every day, hearing that
great things were being done in Rome, he departed from Florence, thinking to make proficience
in art and also to save some money, and went off to Rome. There, having paid a visit to the
aforesaid M. Antonio dal Monte, who was then a Cardinal, he was not only welcomed warmly, but
also straightway set to work to paint, in those early days of the pontificate of Leo, on the
façade of the palace where there is the statue of Maestro Pasquino, a great escutcheon of Pope
Leo in fresco, between that of the Roman People and that of the Cardinal. In that work Niccolò
did not acquit himself very well, for in painting some nude figures and others clothed that
he placed there as ornaments for those escutcheons, he recognized that the study of models
is bad for him who wishes to acquire a good manner. Thereupon, after the uncovering of that
work, which did not prove to be of that excellence which many expected, Niccolò set himself
to execute a picture in oils, in which he painted the Martyr S. Prassedia squeezing a sponge
full of blood into a vessel; and he finished it with such diligence that he recovered in part
the honour that he considered himself to have lost in painting the escutcheons described above.
This picture, which was executed for the above-mentioned Cardinal dal Monte, who was titular
of S. Prassedia, was placed in the centre of that church, over an altar beneath which is a
well of the blood of Holy Martyrs--a beautiful idea, the picture alluding to the place where
there was the blood of those Martyrs. After this Niccolò painted for his patron the Cardinal
another picture in oils, three-quarters of a braccio in height, of Our Lady with the Child
in her arms, S. John as a little boy, and some landscapes, all executed so well and with such
diligence, that the whole work appears to be done in miniature, and not painted; which picture,
one of the best works that Niccolò ever produced, was for many years in the apartment of that
prelate. Afterwards, when the Cardinal arrived in Arezzo and lodged in the Abbey of S. Fiore,
a seat of the Black Friars of S. Benedict, in return for the many courtesies that were shown
to him, he presented that picture to the sacristy of that place, in which it has been treasured
ever since, both as a good painting and in memory of the Cardinal.

Niccolò himself went with the Cardinal to Arezzo, where he lived almost ever afterwards. At
the time he formed a friendship with the painter Domenico Pecori, who was then painting an
altar-piece with the Circumcision of Christ for the Company of the Trinità; and such was the
intimacy between them that Niccolò painted for Domenico in that altar-piece a building in perspective
with columns and arches supporting a ceiling full of rosettes, according to the custom of those
days, which was held at that time to be very beautiful. Niccolò also painted for the same Domenico
a round picture of the Madonna with a multitude below, in oils and on cloth, for the baldachin
of the Confraternity of Arezzo, which was burned, as has been related in the Life of Domenico
Pecori,[32] during a festival that was held in S. Francesco. Then, having received the commission
for a chapel in that same S. Francesco, the second on the right hand as one enters the church,
he painted there in distemper Our Lady, S. John the Baptist, S. Bernard, S. Anthony, S. Francis,
and three Angels in the air who are singing, with God the Father in a pediment; which were
executed by Niccolò almost entirely in distemper, with the point of the brush. But since the
work has almost all peeled off on account of the strength of the distemper, it was labour thrown
away. Niccolò did this in order to try new methods; and when he had recognized that the true
method was working in fresco, he seized the first opportunity, and undertook to paint in fresco
a chapel in S. Agostino in that city, beside the door on the left hand as one enters the church.
In this chapel, which was allotted to him by one Scamarra, a master of furnaces, he painted
a Madonna in the sky with a multitude beneath, and S. Donatus and S. Francis kneeling; but
the best thing that he did in this work was a S. Rocco at the head of the chapel.

This work giving great pleasure to Domenico Ricciardi of Arezzo, who had a chapel in the Church
of the Madonna delle Lagrime, he entrusted the painting of the altar-piece of that chapel to
Niccolò, who, setting his hand to the work, painted in it with much care and diligence the
Nativity of Jesus Christ. And although he toiled a long time over finishing it, he executed
it so well that he deserves to be excused for this, or rather, merits infinite praise, for
the reason that it is a most beautiful work; nor would anyone believe with what extraordinary
consideration he painted every least thing in it, and a ruined building, near the hut wherein
are the Infant Christ and the Virgin, is drawn very well in perspective. In the S. Joseph and
some Shepherds are many heads portrayed from life, such as Stagio Sassoli, a painter and the
friend of Niccolò, and Papino della Pieve, his disciple, who, if he had not died when still
young, would have done very great honour both to himself and to his country; and three Angels
in the air who are singing are so well executed that they would be enough by themselves to
demonstrate the talent of Niccolò and the patience with which he laboured at this work up to
the very last. And no sooner had he finished it than he was requested by the men of the Company
of S. Maria della Neve, at Monte Sansovino, to paint for that Company an altar-piece wherein
was to be the story of the Snow, which, falling on the site of S. Maria Maggiore at Rome on
the 5th of August, was the reason of the building of that temple. Niccolò, then, executed that
altar-piece for the above-mentioned Company with much diligence; and afterwards he executed
at Marciano a work in fresco that won no little praise.

Now in the year 1524, after M. Baldo Magini had caused Antonio, the brother of Giuliano da
San Gallo, to build in the Madonna delle Carceri, in the town of Prato, a tabernacle of marble
with two columns, architrave, cornice, and a quarter-round arch, Antonio resolved to bring
it about that M. Baldo should give the commission for the picture which was to adorn that tabernacle
to Niccolò, with whom he had formed a friendship when he was working in the Palace of the above-mentioned
Cardinal dal Monte at Monte Sansovino. He presented him, therefore, to M. Baldo, who, although
he had been minded to have it painted by Andrea del Sarto, as has been related in another place,
resolved, at the entreaties and advice of Antonio, to allot it to Niccolò. And he, having set
his hand to it, strove with all his power to make a beautiful work, but he did not succeed;
for, apart from diligence, there is no excellence of design to be seen in it, nor any other
quality worthy of much praise, because his hard manner, with his labours over his models of
clay and wax, almost always gave a laborious and displeasing effect to his work. And yet, with
regard to the labours of art, that man could not have done more than he did or shown more lovingness;
and since he knew that none ...[33] for many years he could never bring himself to believe
that others surpassed him in excellence. In this work, then, there is a God the Father who
is sending down the crown of virginity and humility upon the Madonna by the hands of some Angels
who are round her, some of whom are playing various instruments. Niccolò made in the picture
a portrait from life of M. Baldo, kneeling at the feet of S. Ubaldo the Bishop, and on the
other side he painted S. Joseph; and those two figures are one on either side of the image
of the Madonna, which worked miracles in that place. Niccolò afterwards painted a picture three
braccia in height of the same M. Baldo Magini from life, standing with the Church of S. Fabiano
di Prato in his hand, which he presented to the Chapter of the Canons of the Pieve; and this
Niccolò executed for that Chapter, which, in memory of the benefit received, caused the picture
to be placed in the sacristy, an honour well deserved by that remarkable man, who with excellent
judgment conferred benefits on that church, the principal church of his native city, and so
renowned for the Girdle of the Madonna, which is preserved there. This portrait was one of
the best works that Niccolò ever executed in painting. It is also the belief of some that a
little altar-piece that is in the Company of S. Pier Martire on the Piazza di S. Domenico,
at Prato, in which are many portraits from life, is by the hand of the same Niccolò; but in
my opinion, even if this be true, it was painted by him before any of the other pictures mentioned
above.

