It was May now, all the leaves were fresh and dustless, everything that flowered at that time
was weighted with bloom, bees hummed past, butterflies sailed through the carriage, while birds
at the tops of their voices, all of them, every kind there was, sang fit to split; friendly,
unafraid bluebirds darted around us, and talked a blue streak from every fence rider.  Made
you almost crazy to know what they said. The Little Creek flowed at our feet across the road,
through the blue-flag swamp, where the red and the yellow birds lived.  You could see the sun
flash on the water where it emptied into the stream that crossed Deams', and flowed through
our pasture; and away beyond the Big Hill arose, with the new church on top, the graveyard
around it, the Big Creek flashing at its base.  In the valley between lay our fields, meadows,
the big red barn, the white house with the yard filled with trees and flowering shrubs, beyond
it the garden, all made up, neat and growing; and back of it the orchard in full bloom.

Mother looked and looked.  Suddenly she raised her face to father. "Paul," she said, "that
first day, did you ever dream it could be made to look like this?"

"No!" said father.  "I never did!  I saw houses, barns, and cleared fields; I hoped for comfort
and prosperity, but I didn't know any place could grow to be so beautiful, and there is something
about it, even on a rainy November day, there is something that catches me in the breast, on
the top of either of these hills, until it almost stifles me.  What is it, Ruth?"

"The Home Feeling!" said mother.  "It is in my heart so big this morning I am filled with worship.
Just filled with the spirit of worship."

She was rocking on her toes like she does when she becomes too happy at the Meeting House to
be quiet any longer, and cries, "Glory!" right out loud.  She pointed to the orchard, an immense
orchard of big apple trees in full bloom, with two rows of peach trees around the sides.  It
looked like a great, soft, pinkish white blanket, with a deep pink border, spread lightly on
the green earth.

"We planted that way because we thought it was best; how could we know how it would look in
bloom time?  It seems as if you came to these hilltops and figured on the picture you would
make before you cleared, or fenced a field."

"That's exactly what I did," said father.  "Many's the hour, all told, that I have stopped
my horse on one of these hilltops and studied how to make the place beautiful, as well as productive.
That was a task you set me, my girl.  You always considered BEAUTY as well as USE about the
house and garden, and wherever you worked.  I had to hold my part in line."

"You have made it all a garden," said mother.  "You have made it a garden growing under the
smile of the Master; a very garden of the Lord, father."

Father drew up her hand and held it tight against his heart.

"Your praise is sweet, my girl, sweet!" he said.  "I have tried, God knows I have tried, to
make it first comfortable, then beautiful, for all of us.  To the depths of my soul I thank
Him for this hour.  I am glad, Oh I am so glad you like your home, Ruth!  I couldn't endure
it if you complained, found fault and wished you lived elsewhere."

"Why, father!" said my mother in the most surprised voice.  "Why, father, it would kill me
to leave here.  This is ours.  We have made it by and through the strength of the Lord and
our love for each other. All my days I want to live here, and when I die, I want to lie beside
my blessed babies and you, Paul, down by the church we gave the land for, and worked so hard
to build.  I love it, Oh I love it!  See how clean and white the dark evergreens make the house
look!  See how the big chestnuts fit in and point out the yellow road.  I wish we had a row
the length of it!"

"They wouldn't grow," said father.  "You mind the time I had finding the place those wanted
to set their feet?"

"I do indeed!" said mother, drawing her hand and his with it where she could rub her cheek
against it.  "Now we'll go home and have our dinner and a good rest.  I'm a happy woman this
day, father, a happy, happy woman.  If only one thing didn't worry me----"

"Must there always be a 'fly in the ointment,' mother?"

She looked at him with a smile that was like a hug and kiss, and she said:  "I have found it
so, father, and I have been happy in spite of it.  Where one has such wide interests, at some
point there is always a pull, but in His own day, in His own way, the Lord is going to make
everything right."

"'Thy faith hath made thee whole,'" quoted father.

Then she stepped into the carriage, and he waited a second, quite long enough to let her see
that he was perfectly willing to sit there all day if she wanted him to, and then he slowly
and carefully drove home, as he always did when she was in the carriage.  Times when he had
us children out alone, he went until you couldn't see the spokes in the wheels.  He just loved
to "speed up" once in a while on a piece of fine road to let us know how going fast felt.

Mother sat there trembling a little, smiling, misty-eyed.  I was thinking, for I knew what
the "fly in the ointment" was.  She had a letter from Shelley yesterday, and she said there
wasn't a reason on earth why father or Laddie should spend money to come to Chicago, she would
soon be home, she was counting the hours, and she never wanted to leave again.  In the start
she didn't want to go at all, unless she could stay three years, at the very least.  Of course
it was that dreadful man, who had made her so beautiful and happy, and then taken away all
the joy; how COULD a man do it?  It was the hardest thing to understand.

Next morning mother was feeling fine, the world was lovely, Miss Amelia was gone, May was home
to help, so she began housecleaning by washing all the curtains.  She had been in the kitchen
to show Candace how.  I had all my work done, and was making friends with a robin brooding
in my very own catalpa tree, when Mr. Pryor rode up, tied his horse, and started toward the
gate.  I knew he and father had quarrelled; that is, father had told him he couldn't say "God
was a myth" in this house, and he'd gone home mad as hops; so I knew it would be something
mighty important that was bringing him back.  I slid from the tree, ran and opened the gate,
and led the way up the walk.  I opened the front door and asked him in, and then I did the
wrong thing.  I should have taken his hat, told him to be seated, and said I would see if I
could find father; I knew what to do, and how to do it, but because of that about God, I was
so excited I made a mistake.  I never took his hat, or offered him a chair; I just bolted into
the dining-room, looking for father or mother, and left the door wide open, so he thought that
wasn't the place to sit, because I didn't give him a chair, and he followed me.  The instant
I saw mother's face, I knew what I had done. The dining-room was no place for particular company
like him, and bringing him in that way didn't give her time to smooth her hair, pull shut her
dress band at the neck, put on her collar, and shiny goldstone pin, her white apron, and rub
her little flannel rag, with rice flour on it, on her nose to take away the shine.  I had made
a mess of it.

There she came right in the door, just as she was from the tub.  Her hair was damp and crinkled
around her face, her neckband had been close in stooping, so she had unfastened it, and tucked
it back in a little V-shaped place to give her room and air.  Her cheeks were pink, her eyes
bright, her lips red as a girl's, and her neck was soft and white. The V-shaped place showed
a little spot like baby skin, right where her neck went into her chest.  Sure as father kissed
her lips, he always tipped back her head, bent lower and kissed that spot too.  I had seen
hundreds of them go there, and I had tried it myself, lots of times, and it WAS the sweetest
place.  Seeing what I had done, I stopped breathless.  You have to beat most everything you
teach a child right into it properly to keep it from making such a botch of things as that.
I hardly dared to peep at mother, but when I did, she took my breath worse than the mistake
I had made.

Caught, she stood her ground.  She never paused a second.  Straight to him she went, holding
out her hand, and I could see that it was red and warm from pressing the lace in the hot suds.
A something flashed over her, that made her more beautiful than she was in her silk dress going
to town to help Lucy give a party, and her voice was sweet as the bubbling warbler on the garden
fence when he was trying to coax a mate into the privet bush to nest.

Mother asked him to be seated, so he took one of the chairs nearest him, and sat holding his
hat in one hand, his whip in the other. Mother drew a chair beside the dining table, dropped
her hands on each other, and looking in his eyes, she smiled at him.  I tell the same thing
over about people's looks, but I haven't told of this smile of mother's; because I never saw
exactly how it was, or what it would do to people, until that morning.  Then as I watched her--for
how she felt decided what would happen to me, after Mr. Pryor was gone I saw something I never
had noticed until that minute.  She could laugh all over her face, before her lips parted until
her teeth showed.  She was doing it now.  With a wide smile running from cheek to cheek, pushing
up a big dimple at each end, her lips barely touching, her eyes dancing, she sat looking at him.

"This IS the most blessed season for warming up the heart," she said. "If you want the half
of my kingdom, ask quickly.  I'm in the mood to bestow it."

How she laughed!  He just had to loosen up a little, and smile back, even though it looked
pretty stiff.

"Well, I'll not tax you so far," he said.  "I only want Mr. Stanton."

"But he is the whole of the kingdom, and the King to boot!" she laughed, dimpled, and flamed
redder.

Mr. Pryor stared at her wonderingly.  You could even see the wonder, like it was something
you could take hold of.  I suppose he wondered what could make a woman so happy, like that.

"Lucky man!" he said.  "All of us are not so fortunate."

"Then it must be you don't covet the place or the title," said mother more soberly.  "Any woman
will crown the man she marries, if he will allow her.  Paul went farther.  He compelled it."

"I wonder how!" said Mr. Pryor, his eyes steadily watching mother's face.

"By never failing in a million little things, that taken as a whole, make up one mighty big
thing, on which he stands like the Rock of Ages."

"Yet they tell me that you are the mother of twelve children," he said, as if he marvelled
at something.

"Yes!" cried mother, and the word broke right through a bubbling laugh. "Am I not fortunate
above most women?  We had the grief to lose two little daughters at the ages of eight and nine,
all the others I have, and I rejoice in them."

She reached out, laid a hand on me, drew me to her, and lightly touched my arm, sending my
spirits sky-high.  She wasn't going to do a thing to me, not even scold!  Mr. Pryor stared
at her like Jacob Hood does at Laddie when he begins rolling Greek before him, so I guess what
mother said must have been Greek to Mr. Pryor.

"I came to see Mr. Stanton," he said suddenly, and crosslike as if he didn't believe a word
she said, and had decided she was too foolish to bother with any longer; but he kept on staring.
He couldn't quit that, no matter how cross he was.  The funniest thing came into my mind. 
I wondered what on earth he'd have done if she'd gone over, sat on his lap, put her arms around
his neck, took his face between her hands and kissed his forehead, eyes, lips, and tousled
his hair, like she does father and our boys.  I'll bet all I got, he'd have turned to stonier
stone than Sabethany.  You could see that no one ever served HIM like that in all his old,
cold, hard, cross, mysterious, shut-in life.  I was crazy to ask, "Say, did anybody ever kiss
you?" but I had such a close escape bringing him in wrong, I thought it would be wise not to
take any risks so soon after.  It was enough to stand beside mother, and hear every word they
said.  What was more, she wanted me, because she kept her hand on mine, or touched my apron
every little while.

"I'm so sorry!" she said.  "He was called to town on business.  The County Commissioners are
sitting to-day."

"They are deciding about the Groveville bridge, and pike?"

"Yes.  He is working so hard for them."

"The devil you say!  I beg pardon!  But it was about that I came.  I'm three miles from there,
and I'm taxed over sixty pounds for it."

"But you cross the bridge every time you go to town, and travel the road.  Groveville is quite
a resort on account of the water and lovely country.  Paul is very anxious to have the work
completed before the summer boarders come from surrounding cities.  We are even farther from
it than you; but it will cost us as much."

"Are you insane?" cried Mr. Pryor, not at all politely; but you could see that mother was bound
she wouldn't become provoked about anything, for she never stopped a steady beam on him.  "Spend
all that money for strangers to lazy around on a few weeks and then go!"

"But a good bridge and fine road will add to their pleasure, and when they leave, the improvements
remain.  They will benefit us and our children through all the years to come."

"Talk about 'the land of the free'!" cried Mr. Pryor.  "This is a tax-ridden nation.  It's
a beastly outrage!  Ever since I came, it's been nothing but notice of one assessment after
another.  I won't pay it!  I won't endure it.  I'll move!"

Mother let go of me, gripped her hands pretty tight together on the table, and she began to talk.

"As for freedom--no man ever was, or is, or will be free," she said, quite as forcibly as he
could speak.  "You probably knew when you came here that you would find a land tax-ridden from
a great civil war of years' duration, and from newness of vast territory to be opened up and
improved.  You certainly studied the situation."

"'Studied the situation'!"  His whip beat across his knee.  "'Studied the situation'!  My leaving
England was--er--the result of intolerable conditions there--in the nature of flight from things
not to be endured.  I had only a vague idea of the States."

"If England is intolerable, and the United States an outrage, I don't know where in this world
you'll go," said mother softly.

Mr. Pryor stared at her sharply.

"Madame is pleased to be facetious," he said sneeringly.

Mother's hands parted, and one of them stretched across the table toward him.

"Forgive me!" she cried.  "That was unkind.  I know you are in dreadful trouble.  I'd give--I'd
almost give this right hand to comfort you. I'd do nearly anything to make you feel that you
need bear no burden alone; that we'd love to help support you."

"I believe you would," he said slowly, his eyes watching her again.  "I believe you would.
I wonder why!"

"All men are brothers, in the broader sense," said mother, "and if you'll forgive me, your
face bears marks of suffering almost amounting to torture."

She stretched out the other hand.

"You couldn't possibly let us help you?"

Slowly he shook his head.

"Think again!" urged mother.  "A trouble shared is half over to start with.  You lay a part
of it on your neighbours, and your neighbours in this case would be glad, glad indeed, to see
you care-free and happy as all men should be."

"We'll not discuss it," he said.  "You can't possibly imagine the root of my trouble."

"I shan't try!" said mother.  "But let me tell you this:  I don't care if you have betrayed
your country, blasphemed your God, or killed your own child!  So long, as you're a living man,
daily a picture of suffering before me, you're a burden on my heart.  You're a load on my shoulders,
without your consent.  I have implored God, I shall never cease to implore Him, until your
brow clears, your head is lifted, and your heart is at rest.  You can't prevent me!  This hour
I shall go to my closet and beg Him to have mercy on your poor soul, and when His time comes,
He will.  You can't help yourself, or you would have done so, long ago.  You must accept aid!
This must end, or there will be tragedy in your house."

"Madame, there has been!" said Mr. Pryor, shaking as he sat.

"I recognize that," said mother.  "The question is whether what has passed is not enough."

"You simply cannot understand!" he said.

"Mr. Pryor," she said, "you're in the position of a man doubly bereft. You are without a country,
and without a God.  Your face tells every passer-by how you are enjoying that kind of life.
Forgive me, if I speak plainly.  I admire some things about you so much, I am venturing positive
unkindness to try to make you see that in shutting out your neighbours you will surely make
them think more, and worse things, than are true.  I haven't a doubt in my mind but that your
trouble is not one half so dreadful as you imagine while brooding over it.  We will pass that.
Let me tell you how we feel about this road matter.  You see we did our courting in Pennsylvania,
married and tried Ohio, and then came on here.  We took this land when it was mostly woods.
I could point you to the exact spot where we stopped; we visited it yesterday, looked down
the hill and selected the place where we would set this house, when we could afford to build
it.  We moved into the cabin that was on the land first, later built a larger one, and finally
this home as we had planned it.  Every fruit tree, bush, vine, and flower we planted.  Here
our children have been born, lived, loved, and left us; some for the graveyard down yonder,
some for homes of their own.  Always we have planned and striven to transform this into the
dearest, the most beautiful spot on earth.  In making our home the best we can, in improving
our township, county, and state, we are doing our share toward upbuilding this nation."

She began at the a b c's, and gave it to him straight: the whole thing, just as we saw it;
and he listened, as if he were a prisoner, and she a judge telling him what he must do to gain
his freedom.  She put in the birds to keep away the worms, the trees to break the wind, the
creeks to save the moisture.  She whanged him, and she banged him, up one side, and down the
other.  She didn't stop to be mincy.  She shot things at him like a man talking to another
man who had plenty of sense but not a particle of reason.  She gave him the reason.  She told
him exactly why, and how, and where, and also just WHAT he must do to feel RIGHT toward his
neighbours, his family, and his God.  No preacher ever talked half so well.  Yea verily, she
was as interesting as the Bishop himself, and far pleasanter to look at.  When she ran short
of breath, and out of words, she reached both hands toward him again.

"OH DO PLEASE THINK OF THESE THINGS!" she begged.  "Do try to believe that I am a sensible
person, and know what I am talking about."

