The lifework of Theobald Wolfe Tone, for the subversion of English Government in Ireland, and
the supreme sacrifice he made in the mighty effort to erect in its stead an independent Ireland
free from all foreign denomination and control, was fittingly commemorated on Sunday last,
when the annual pilgrimage took place to Bodenstown Churchyard, where all that is mortal of
the great patriot lie buried. The pilgrimage this year was worthy of the cause and the man,
and afforded some object lessons in what might be accomplished by a cultivation of those principles
of discipline and devotion to duty, in the pursuit of a glorious ideal, which Tone taught and
adhered to throughout his adventurous and brilliant career. The well-ordered procession, the
ready obedience to the commands of the marshals, the intense earnestness of the multitude,
and the display made by the youths--the national boy scouts--their military bearing, and the
bands and banners which interspersed the procession as it marched from Sallins to Bodenstown
was a spectacle which pleased the eye and stirred the emotions. Everything in connection with
the pilgrimage was carried out with a close attention to detail, and military-like precision
which must have been very acceptable to the great patriot in whose honour it was organised,
were he but permitted to gaze from the great Unknown upon this practical demonstration of the
perpetuation of the spirit which animated him and his time, in the struggle against English
misrule, and the love and veneration in which he is still held, after the lapse of the century
and more that has passed since he made the final sacrifice of his life in the cause of freedom.
Tone done to death did not die in vain. The truth of this was evident in the character of the
pilgrimage on Sunday last, when all that is best and purest in patriotism in the land assembled
at his graveside, to renew fealty to the aims and ideals for which he suffered and died, and
to hear the gospel of Irish nationality preached and expounded as he knew and inculcated it
in his day. A fusion of forces, and the cultivation of a spirit and bond of brotherhood and
friendship amongst Irishmen in the common cause, were his methods to attain the great ideal
of a separate and distinct nationality, for then, as to-day, the chief obstacle to freedom
and nationhood was not so much English domination in itself, as want of cohesion, faction,
and the disruption caused by alien traditions and teachings. This was the prevailing spirit
of Sunday's commemoration, and as the great mass of people filed past in orderly array and
knelt, prayed, and laid wreaths on the lonely grave, the solemnity and impressiveness of the
occasion was intensified. In the suppressed murmurs, and silent gaze on the tomb of the mighty
dead, one could recognise the eagerness and the hope for another Tone to arise to complete
the work which he promoted, and vindicate the purity of the motives which moved men like the
leaders of '98 to do and dare for all, and to "substitute the common name of Irishman for Catholic,
Protestant, and Dissenter." The promoters, too, were fortunate in their choice of orator for
the occasion. Mr. P.H. Pearse did full justice to the occasion, and in language, beautiful
and impressive, pictured the man and his movements and the lessons to be drawn by us to-day
from the lifework of leaders in thought and action like Tone. Close and consistent adhesion
to principles of patriotism and a readiness of self-sacrifice in the pursuit of those principles,
were his distinguishing characteristics all through life, and if we in our time would emulate
the example of Tone and his times, we must also be ready when the call came to meet any demand
made upon us for the promotion of our national welfare.