Both Pym and Hampden died in the second year of the war, and henceforth the leadership of the
parliamentary party fell to Oliver Cromwell. He was a country gentleman from the east of England,
and Hampden's cousin. Cromwell represented the university of Cambridge in the Long Parliament
and displayed there great audacity in opposing the government. An unfriendly critic at this
time describes "his countenance swollen and reddish, his voice sharp and untuneable, and his
eloquence full of fervor." Though a zealous Puritan, who believed himself in all sincerity
to be the chosen agent of the Lord, Cromwell was not an ascetic. He hunted, hawked, played
bowls, and other games, had an ear for music, and valued art and learning. In public life he
showed himself a statesman of much insight and a military genius.

THE "IRONSIDES" AND THE "NEW MODEL"

At the outset of the war fortune favored the royalists, until Cromwell took the field. To him
was due the formation of a cavalry regiment of "honest, sober Christians," whose watchwords
were texts from Scripture and who charged in battle while singing psalms. These "Ironsides,"
as Cromwell said, "had the fear of God before them and made some conscience of what they did."
They were so successful that Parliament permitted Cromwell to reorganize a large part of the
army into the "New Model," a body of professional, highly disciplined soldiers. The "New Model"
defeated Charles decisively at the battle of Naseby, near the center of England (1645 A.D.).
Charles then surrendered to the Scotch, who soon turned him over to Parliament.

PRESYBTERIANS AND INDEPENDENTS

The surrender of the king ended the Great Rebellion, but left the political situation in doubt.
By this time the Puritans had divided into two rival parties. The Presbyterians wished to make
the Church of England, like that of Scotland, Presbyterian in faith and worship. Through their
control of Parliament, they were able to pass acts doing away with bishops, forbidding the
use of the Book of Common Prayer, and requiring every one to accept Presbyterian doctrines.
The other Puritan party, known as the Independents, [23] felt that religious beliefs should
not be a matter of compulsion. They rejected both Anglicanism and Presbyterianism and desired
to set up churches of their own, where they might worship as seemed to them right. The Independents
had the powerful backing of Cromwell and the "New Model," so that the stage was set for a quarrel
between Parliament and the army.

"PRIDE'S PURGE," 1648 A.D.

King Charles, though a prisoner in the hands of his enemies, hoped to find profit in their
divisions. The Presbyterian majority in the House of Commons was willing to restore the king,
provided he would give his assent to the establishment of Presbyterianism in England. But the
army wanted no reconciliation with the captive monarch and at length took matters into its
own hand. A party of soldiers, under the command of a Colonel Pride, excluded the Presbyterian
members from the floor of the House, leaving the Independents alone to conduct the government.
This action is known as "Pride's Purge." Cromwell approved of it, and from this time he became
the real ruler of England.

EXECUTION OF CHARLES I, 1649 A.D.

The "Rump Parliament," as the remnant of the House of Commons was called, immediately brought
the king before a High Court of Justice composed of his bitterest enemies. He refused to acknowledge
the right of the court to try him and made no defense whatever. Charles was speedily convicted
and sentenced to be beheaded, "as a tyrant, traitor, murderer, and public enemy to the good
of the people." He met death with quiet dignity and courage on a scaffold erected in front
of Whitehall Palace in London. The king's execution went far beyond the wishes of most Englishmen;
"cruel necessity" formed its only justification; but it established once for all in England
the principle that rulers are responsible to their subjects.

247. THE COMMONWEALTH AND THE PROTECTORATE, 1649-1660 A.D.

ENGLAND A REPUBLIC

Shortly after the execution of Charles I the "Rump Parliament" abolished the House of Lords
and the office of king. It named a Council of State, most of whose members were chosen from
the House of Commons, to carry on the government. England now became a commonwealth, or national
republic, the first in the history of the world. It is clear that this republic was the creation
of a minority. The Anglicans, the Presbyterians, and the Roman Catholics were willing to restore
the monarchy, but as long as the power lay with the army, the small sect of Independents could
impose its will on the great majority of the English people.

SUBJECTION OF IRELAND

Besides confusion and discontent at home, many dangers confronted the Commonwealth abroad.
In both Ireland and Scotland Prince Charles, the oldest son of the dead sovereign, had been
proclaimed king. But Cromwell rose to the emergency. Invading Ireland with his trained soldiers,
he captured town after town, slaughtered many royalists, and shipped many more to the West
Indies as slaves. This time Ireland was completely subdued, at a cost, from fighting, famine,
and pestilence, of the lives of a third of its population. Cromwell confiscated the land of
those who had supported the royalist cause and planted colonies of English Protestants in Ulster,
Leinster, and Munster. The Roman Catholic gentry were compelled to remove beyond the Shannon
River to unfruitful Connaught. Even there the public exercise of their religion was forbidden
them. Cromwell's harsh measures brought peace to Ireland, but only intensified the hatred felt
by Irish Roman Catholics for Protestant England. [24]

SCOTLAND SUBDUED

While Cromwell was still in Ireland, Prince Charles, who had been living as an exile at the
French court, came to Scotland. On his promise to be a Presbyterian king the whole nation agreed
to support him. Cromwell, in two pitched battles, broke up the Scotch armies and compelled
Prince Charles to seek safety in flight. After thrilling adventures the prince managed to reach
his asylum in France. Cromwell treated the Scotch with leniency, but took away their Parliament
and united their country with England in a single state.

DISSOLUTION OF THE "RUMP PARLIAMENT," 1653 A.D.

Meanwhile, the "Rump Parliament" had become more and more unpopular. The army, which had saved
England from Stuart despotism, did not relish the spectacle of a small group of men, many of
them selfish and corrupt, presuming to govern the country Cromwell found them "horridly arbitrary"
and at last resolved to have done with them. He entered the House of Commons with a band of
musketeers and ordered the members home. "Come, come," he cried, "I will put an end to your
prating. You are no Parliament, I say you are no Parliament. I will put an end to your sitting."
Another Parliament, chosen by Cromwell and the army, proved equally incapable. After a few
months' rule it resigned its authority into the hands of Cromwell.

THE INSTRUMENT OF GOVERNMENT

By force of circumstances Cromwell had become a virtual dictator, but he had no love of absolute
power. He therefore accepted a so-called Instrument of Government, drawn up by some of his
officers. It provided that Cromwell should be Lord Protector for life, with the assistance
of a council and a Parliament. The Instrument is notable as the first written constitution
of a modern nation. It is the only one which England has ever had.

CROMWELL AS LORD PROTECTOR, 1653-1658 A.D.

As Lord Protector in name, though a king in fact, Cromwell ruled England for five years. He
got along with Parliament no better than the Stuarts had done, but his successful conduct of
foreign affairs gave England an importance in the councils of Europe which it had not enjoyed
since the time of Elizabeth. Cromwell died in 1658 A.D. Two years later the nation, weary of
military rule, restored Charles II to the throne of his ancestors.

THE PURITAN REVOLUTION

It seemed, indeed, as if the Puritan Revolution had been a complete failure. But this was hardly
true. The revolution arrested the growth of absolutism in England. It created among Englishmen
a lasting hostility to absolute power, whether exercised by King, Parliament, Protector, or
army. And, furthermore, it sent forth into the world ideas of political liberty, which, during
the eighteenth century, helped to produce the American and French revolutions.

248. THE RESTORATION AND THE "GLORIOUS REVOLUTION," 1660-1689 A.D.

REIGN OF CHARLES II, 1660-1685 A.D.

Charles II, on mounting the throne, pledged himself to maintain Magna Carta, the Petition of
Right, and other statutes limiting the royal power. The people of England wished to be governed
by the king, but they also wished that the king should govern by the advice of Parliament.
Charles, less obstinate and more astute than his father, recognized this fact, and, when a
conflict threatened with his ministers or Parliament, always avoided it by timely concessions.
Whatever happened, he used to say, he was resolved "never to set on his travels again." Charles's
charm of manner, wit, and genial humor made him a popular monarch, in spite of his grave faults
of character. One of his own courtiers well described him as a king who "never said a foolish
thing and never did a wise one."

REACTION AGAINST PURITANISM

The period of the Restoration was characterized by a reaction against the austere scheme of
life which the Puritans had imposed on society. Puritanism not only deprived the people of
evil pleasures, such as bear- baiting, Cock-fighting, and tippling, but it also prohibited
the Sunday dances and games, the village festivals, and the popular drama. When Puritanism
disappeared, the people went to the opposite extreme and cast off all restraint. In this the
king, who had lived long at the gay court of Louis XIV, set the example. England was nevermore
merry and never less moral than under its "Merry Monarch."

THE DISSENTERS

The Restoration brought back the Church of England, together with the Stuarts. Parliament,
more intolerant than the king, passed an Act of Uniformity, which made the use of the Book
of Common Prayer compulsory and required all ministers to express their consent to everything
contained in it. Nearly two thousand clergymen resigned their positions rather than obey the
act. Among them were found Presbyterians, Independents (or Congregationalists), Baptists, and
Quakers. These Puritans, since they did not accept the national Church, were henceforth classed
as Dissenters. [25] They might not hold meetings for worship, or teach in schools, or accept
any public office. For many years the Dissenters had to endure harsh persecution.

HABEAS CORPUS ACT, 1679 A.D.

