When we turn from the world of intellect to that of ordinary life the same charm haunts our
footsteps. Everything is so well done, so gracefully and so winningly presented! The exquisite
perfume of refinement hangs about every trivial detail. Your washerwoman is a lady, and your
coalman a Chesterfield. If a Frenchman is ever rude, he is rude with malice prepense and aforethought.
He knows better, we may be sure. Patrick may err on the score of politeness from ignorance,
but Alphonse is a beast only because he chooses to be bestial. All the traditions of his race
run counter to his conduct when he forgets the supreme suavity that should characterize a Gaul.

And yet it is possible for an American--or rather an Anglo-Saxon--to live for years in the
midst of this brilliant, polished, fascinating people, and never to feel specially interested
in them, either individually or nationally. What is the reason? Why is it that, loving Paris
like a second home, we do not take the Parisians to our hearts as brothers and sisters, or
at least as dear first cousins? The causes are many and various. In the first place, the Parisians
do not like us. The popularity which Americans were said to possess in Paris has vanished with
the Empire--that is, if it really existed. It probably was nothing more at any time than the
courtesy shown by an astute sovereign of a nation of shopkeepers to a nation of purchasers.
To-day Americans are not popular in Parisian society. It is almost impossible that they should
be. Our ideas, our social customs, our notions of right and wrong, are diametrically opposed
to all the social theories of France. Our girls, with their free frank ways and their liberty
of speech and action, are so many disreputable horrors in Parisian eyes. Madame la Comtesse
de St. Germain would as soon think of taking her daughters to see Schneider as of permitting
them to associate with young ladies who are allowed to receive morning calls from gentlemen
without the presence of their parents--who call the male friends of their childhood by their
first names--and who are suffered to witness Faust at the opera and La Haine at La Gaîté. Americans,
especially wealthy ones, usually draw around them a vast circle of French acquaintances, it
is true, but these are mostly sponges and adventurers, well born and well bred, it may be,
but decidedly, to use a vulgar but expressive American idiom, "on the make." Of the pure and
inner sanctuary of French society scarce a glimpse is afforded to these alien eyes. It would
not amuse them very much if it were, for, by all accounts, this hallowed inner circle is as
dull as it is exclusive. The charm of French society is to be found in those salons which are
frequented by the kings of Parisian Bohemia--journalists, poets, dramatists, artists--wherein
the Republic is queen and Victor Hugo a god.

Two great and ineradicable defects underlie the brightness and fascination of the external
part of French character--namely, selfishness and insincerity. Perfect in manner, in dress,
in grace, in suavity, in sweetness it may be, the French are utterly and wholly unreliable.
They resemble the phantom woman in the story told by Leigh Hunt, that was only a suit of clothes,
with no face beneath the hood and no body inside of the robes; or rather those malignant spirits
that look like fair women when seen in front, but when seen from behind show only as hollow shells.

And the tradespeople, the bourgeoisie--your dressmaker, your milliner, your tailor, your butcher
and baker and candlestick-maker--skilled and suave and generally charming--O heaven and earth!
how they do lie! Not occasionally, not when hard-pressed, not when truth will not do as well,
but persistently, calmly, eternally. "I swear to you, monsieur," will your Parisian say, "that
your work shall be done in two hours," Esteem yourself fortunate if it is finished in two days:
very probably two weeks will see it still uncompleted. Send for a workman to execute some little
job about your house. "He will come at once--yes, at once." Days roll round, and he never comes
at all. Your dressmaker agrees to make you a dress for a certain price: your bill comes home
for half as much again. An American in Paris ordered an extra door-key, giving the original
key as a pattern. The key was to cost four francs. Here is a copy of the bill as presented:

                                                   Francs.
For taking off lock (a process wholly unnecessary,
   by the by),                                       1-1/2
For putting it on again,                             1-1/2
Workman's time,                                      1
Journey from shop (about half a square),             1
Key,                                                 4

     Total                                           9

Another American sent for a bell-hanger to inspect an electric bell which was thought to be
out of order, but which proved on inspection to be all right. He got a bill of five francs,
whereof one item ran thus: "For looking at the bell, 2 francs." He had not touched the thing,
be it borne in mind.

I cannot refrain from here making answer to a remark too often heard from American lips, that
America is as immoral as France--that American society is every whit as depraved as the French.
It is not. The immorality of America is as a festering wound on an otherwise healthy body:
the immorality of France is like a scrofulous taint that poisons the whole life-current. One
gets weary and heartsick with the old eternal song, the everlasting theme, which is sung and
told and dramatized and written about and painted--that flies in your face at every corner
and stares up at you from every inch of printed paper, every square of colored canvas, in the
whole nationality. And to sum up at last this, "a woman's opinion," I will freely state that
the longer I live in France the more I admire the Parisians and the less I like them.

L.H.H.

THE COLLEGIO ROMANO.

The Collegio Romano was always worth a visit, because it contained the celebrated Kircherian
Museum and the admirable observatory presided over by Father Secchi, the world-celebrated astronomer.
But these are matters sufficiently treated of by the guide-books, and may be left to them.
Of the story of the enormous building they have less to tell, though there is much of curious
interest to be told. But neither is that my object on the present occasion. My purpose is to
speak of the strangely-changed fortunes and destinies of the old historic pile, and of what
it now is and is to be. But little in Rome, as we all know, has remained unchanged in these
strange latter days. But few things--at least few material things--have experienced such a
change as the Collegio Romano. The "Collegio Romano" was in fact nothing more than the principal
convent of the Jesuits. The establishment was founded immediately after the institution of
the order, and mainly by the care and energy of Saint Francisco Borgia, the third general of
the order. The present building, however, was raised in the pontificate of Gregory XIII. by
the Florentine architect Ammanati, the first stone having been laid in 1582. It is an enormous
mass of building--enormous even among the huge structures for which Rome above all other cities
is remarkable--situated near the church of the Gesù and not far from the Piazza di Venezia.
There is nothing remarkable in its outward appearance save the vast size, the object of the
builders having evidently been only to adapt it in a business-like way to the purposes to which
it was destined. These included not only the provision of a residence for the fathers of the
order resident in Rome, and for the all-but all-powerful general of the terrible order--the
"Black Pope," as the Romans were wont to call him--but also all the locale necessary for a
very large educational establishment, whence the building took its name.

The Jesuits, like all other members of the almost innumerable monastic establishments in Rome,
have, as we all know, been turned out of their homes, their property has been--or rather is
being--sold, and the convents have become national property. Many of these are vast buildings,
but no one of them is to be compared with the great Jesuit convent, which was the central home
and head-quarters of the "Company of Jesus." And a memorable day it was in Rome, and a very
singular sight, when, the dreaded fathers of the terrible "Company" having taken their departure,
the few remaining goods and chattels in the convent were sold by public auction. Few and not
of much value were the articles to be sold; for the fathers are not men to take no heed of
those shadows which coming events cast before them, and they had long foreseen that their day
in Rome was at an end, and had contrived to leave as little as might be to the spoiler. None
the less was it a strange sight, as I say, to see the profanum vulgus of the buyers of old
furniture, and the still more numerous herd of the curious, looking on with very diversified
feelings--some with bitterness enough in their hearts--pushing and tramping through those noble
corridors and vast halls and secret cells, on which no profane gaze had rested for more than
three hundred years.

There has been abundance of doubt, but no difficulty, in disposing of the great number of buildings
which have thus come into the possession of the nation. Many of the smaller convents have been
sold in the same manner as the other property of the ousted communities. But this has not been
done--and indeed could hardly have been done--in the case of the larger buildings; and there
has been a competition very much in the nature of a scramble for the appropriation of them
by the heads of the several governmental departments. That of Public Instruction, now worthily
represented by Signor Bonghi, has succeeded in laying hands on perhaps the grandest prize of
all, the great Jesuit establishment of the Collegio Romano; and, looking to the uses to which
it is being put by Signor Bonghi, it may, I think, be said that it could not have been better
bestowed. Under his auspices it is intended to assume, and is indeed rapidly assuming, the
functions of the still vaster pile of building in Great Russell street, London, known to all
the world as the British Museum, as will be seen from the following statement of the purposes
it is intended to serve and of the various matters to be housed in it.

On the ground-floor there is already established a "Museo Scolastico-Pedagogico"--a museum
of all the means and appurtenances that are used, or have been used, in different countries
for the ends and purposes of instruction. This is the idea and the creation of Signor Bonghi;
and it will, I think, be admitted that it is a very happy one and likely to be fruitful in
good results. A visit to it is more interesting than might perhaps at first sight be imagined.
I may mention that on asking the very competent and enlightened director of the establishment
what people he considered to have done most and as foremost in the work of educating the masses,
he said that the Germans had done most theoretically and in the way of thinking on the philosophy
of the matter, but that the Americans had done most practically in the way of improving the
material means for popular education.

On the first and second floors the great national library, the "Biblioteca Vittorio Emmanuele,"
is--or, it would perhaps be more accurate to say, will be--placed and made accessible to the
public. At Florence there exists the celebrated Magliabecchian Library, which when Florence
became the capital of Italy was called the National Library--somewhat ungratefully, it will
probably be thought, to the learned and indefatigable collector who gave his life and his means
to the formation of it, and then bequeathed it to his native city. And I am inclined to believe
that this library is still, for all the general working purposes of a nineteenth-century student,
the best in Italy. In Rome, when the Eternal City in its turn became the capital of a New Italy,
there existed nothing that deserved to be called a national library, and the present minister
of Public Instruction set about doing what was possible to supply the want. The Company of
Jesus possessed a fine and valuable library, containing about one hundred and seventy thousand
volumes. This, when the Jesuits were turned out, was declared national property, and it forms
the nucleus of the new Victor Emmanuel Library. While the Jesuits inhabited their old home
it was arranged in one very fine hall built in the form of a cross, which will continue to
be one of the principal receptacles, in the new establishment. It was in the middle of 1874
that the Italian government took possession of this collection. To this have been added forty-eight
other libraries, the former property of the suppressed convents of the city and provinces of
Rome. They were placed for the nonce in the cells which had been inhabited by the Jesuit fathers.
The mass of books thus collected amounts to about four hundred thousand volumes. It will be
seen at once that the labor of reducing to order, classifying and arranging such a confused
mass must be truly herculean. But the first librarian of the Victor Emmanuel Library, Signor
Carlo Castellani, well known in the literary world as a palaeographer of great eminence, is
laboring at the colossal task with an energy and a zeal that have already accomplished much,
and is daily making sensible advances in the work. It is, however, also evident that four hundred
thousand volumes thus collected must include an immense number of duplicates; and, worse still,
that (as may be readily supposed from the sources whence the books have come) one special branch
of general literature will be represented in very undue proportion. Of course, the greater
portion of the conventual libraries was theological. It may be presumed that classical and
(old) historical literature will be found to exist, the former in tolerable completeness (so
far as regards old and in many cases now obsolete editions), and the latter in considerable
abundance. But of modern literature little or nothing can be expected, even of Italian, and
still less of any other language. Among the number of volumes which has been mentioned there
are some seven or eight thousand manuscripts, and perhaps an equal number of the editions of
the fifteenth century, which go far to make the library an interesting one to the learned and
to the student and lover of bibliography, but are of very little avail toward rendering the
collection worth much as a national working library. The question then arises, What means has
Italy of procuring such a library for her capital? Something may be probably expected from
the liberality of her Parliament in furtherance of this great national object. But for the
present, in the depressed (though improving) state of the Italian finances, this cannot be
much. There exists in Italy a law similar to that on the same subject in England, by which
every publisher is obliged to deposit one copy of every book published in the national library.
But this copy at present is sent to the Magliabecchian Library at Florence. Signor Castellani
hopes that the privilege may be transferred, as seems but reasonable, to Rome. But I do not
see why it should be necessary thus to impoverish Florence to enrich the capital. In England
the law requires eleven copies which are distributed to the great libraries of the three kingdoms.
It is true that this exaction has sometimes been complained of, and it is said that in the
case of very costly illustrated works the tax is a very heavy one, and that in some instances
it has operated to make the production of certain books impossible. And perhaps it may be reasonable
to make some regulation by which such works should be exempted from the obligation. But in
ordinary cases the tax is an almost inappreciable one, and, such as it is, must of course fall
ultimately on the writers and readers of books--mainly on the latter--for the benefit of which
classes libraries exist. It seems to me, therefore, that a somewhat larger number of copies
than one or two might reasonably and advantageously be exacted from publishers. And if three
or four copies were delivered to the great Roman library, there would be the means of effecting
very advantageous exchanges with other countries. I asked Signor Castellani what increase in
the number of volumes the locale now at the disposal of the library would be capable of accommodating.
He said that there would be room for about seven hundred thousand volumes, evidently a quite
inadequate provision for the future. Many years will not elapse before the measure which is
now demanded at the British Museum--viz., the removal of all the various collections housed
there to other localities, and the dedication of the entire building to the library--will become
necessary at the old Collegio Romano. Vast as the building is, the entirety of it is not at
all too large for the Roman library of the future. Or--since we are allowing our thoughts to
consider events which cast their shadows before as if they were accomplished facts--may it
not perhaps be found better some of these days to move the whole of the present collection
to the Vatican, to be united with the colossal and almost unknown hoards there buried in one
collection? As it is, a new reading-room, after the model of that existing at the National
Library in Paris, is about to be built in the courtyard of the Collegio Romano. The classification,
arrangement and methods of working the library will be copied in great measure from those introduced
by Mr. Panizzi at the British Museum. Unlike the liberal practice of the great German libraries,
no volume will be on any account permitted to leave the library. I was sorry to find that in
one all-important respect the Roman practice as regards the national library will differ from
that of London. The collection is being catalogued in slips, to be kept, after the fashion
of booksellers, in boxes made for the purpose, and there is no present intention of making
any catalogue in volumes accessible to the public. Of course it is impossible to allow the
public to have access to the slips; and all who have ever really used a great library know
but too well that a library the catalogue of which is not accessible to the student is at least
half useless. Even putting aside the numerous cases in which an inquirer knows of the existence
of such or such a work, but is not aware of the author's name, and cannot therefore ask for
or obtain the book in question, it happens more often than not that a person inquiring on any
given subject finds his best guide to the available sources of information in the catalogue.

I have not left myself room, I fear, to say anything on the present occasion of the other highly
interesting collections which are at present lodged, or in the course of being placed, under
the all-sheltering roof of the Collegio Romano. I must content myself with simply enumerating
them, with the hope of giving some account of them at some future time. I may briefly state,
then, that the celebrated Kircherian Museum, formed toward the close of the sixteenth century
by the learned Jesuit father Kircher, still occupies the rooms on the ground-floor, with a
somewhat improved arrangement, which it occupied when the fathers of the Company inhabited
the building. The collection of ancient Roman marbles discovered in the excavations of the
buried city of Ostia have been brought thence, and arranged in rooms also on the third floor--a
fact which strikes one as not a little to the credit of the handiwork of Ammanati, the Florentine
architect. Also on the third floor there is an exceedingly interesting collection, of which
I hope to speak somewhat more at length another time. It is called a palaeo-ethnographical
museum, and consists of a large collection of the implements of all sorts of the people belonging
to the pre-historic period, together with a similar gathering of articles used by the uncivilized
races of the present day. The interest of such a comparative study as is here suggested is,
as may be readily understood, very great. On the fourth floor there is a very considerable
collection of objects illustrating Italian art of the ante-Roman period, and also a Museum
of Industrial Art, conceived on the plan of the English School of Art at South Kensington.

T.A.T.

TRADES UNIONISM IN ITS INFANCY.

In these days of trades unionism and strikes an account of the germ of such associations in
this country is not without interest. So far back as 1806 a remarkable trial arising out of
such a combination took place before the recorder of Philadelphia and a jury. It lasted three
days and excited extraordinary interest. Jared Ingersoll and Joseph Hopkinson were counsel
for the prosecution, and Caesar A. Rodney and Walter Franklin for the defence.

The defendants, eight in number, were indicted for not being content to work at the usual prices,
but contriving to increase and augment them, and for endeavoring to prevent by threats, menaces
and other unlawful means other artificers from working at the usual rate, and uniting into
a club or combination to make and ordain unlawful and arbitrary rules to govern those engaged
in their trade, and unjustly exact great sums of money by means thereof.

The evidence went to show in the clearest manner that a system of frightful thralldom had been
put in force. A witness named Harrison stated that when he reached the United States in 1794
he found this system of terrorism prevalent. He went to work for a Mr. Bedford, and presently
got a hint that if he did not join the association of journeymen shoemakers he was liable to
be "scabbed," which meant that men would not work in the same shop, nor board or lodge in the
same house, nor would they work at all for the same employer. The case of this man seemed exceptionally
hard. He made shoes exclusively, and when "a turn-out came to raise the wages on boots" he
remonstrated, pleading that shoes did not enter into the question, and urging that he had a
sick wife and a large family. But it was all to no purpose. He then resolved that he would
turn a "scab" unknown to the association, and continue his work; but having a neighbor whom
it was impossible for him to deceive, he went to him and said that he knew his circumstances,
and that his family must perish or go to "the bettering-house" unless he continued to work.
This neighbor, Swain, replied that he knew his condition was desperate, but that a man had
better make any sacrifice than turn a "scab" at that time. He presently informed against him,
and Mr. Bedford (his employer) was warned that he must discharge his "scabs." He refused, saying
that, "Let the consequence be what it might, we should sink or swim together." However, one
Saturday night, when all but Harrison and a man named Logan had left him, Bedford's resolution
gave way, and he exclaimed, "I don't know what the devil I am to do: they will ruin me in the
end. I wish you would go to the body and pay a fine, if not very large, in order to set the
shop free once more." The fine offered was refused, and Mr. Bedford's shop remained "under
scab" for a year. Still, Mr. Bedford, who must have been a very plucky fellow, would not give
Harrison up, but removed in 1802 to Trenton. Harrison stated that although he could not, had
Mr. Bedford given him up, have got work anywhere else, and that he might have ground him down
to any terms, yet he (Bedford) very nobly always gave him full price. At length, by paying
a fine, Harrison became reconciled to his persecutors, and Bedford's shop was once more free.

William Forgrave said that "the name of a 'scab' is very dangerous: men of this description
have been hurt when out at night." He had been threatened, and joined the association from
fear of personal injury. A vast deal more of evidence was given and eloquent speeches delivered
by counsel, but the foregoing gives the sum and substance of the case.

In the course of the summing up Recorder Levy said: "To make an artificial regulation is not
to regard the excellence of the work or quality of the material, but to fix a positive and
arbitrary price, governed by no standard, but dependent on the will of the few who are interested....
What, then, is the operation of this kind of conduct upon the commerce of the city? It exposes
it to inconveniences, if not to ruin: therefore it is against the public welfare. How does
it operate upon the defendants? We see that those who are in indigent circumstances, and who
have families to maintain, have declared here on oath that it was impossible for them to hold
out. They were interdicted from all employment in future if they did not continue to persevere
in the measures taken by the journeymen shoemakers. Does not such a regulation tend to involve
necessitous men in the commission of crimes? If they are prevented working for six weeks, it
might lead them to procure support for their wives and children by burglary, larceny or highway
robbery."

The jury found the defendants "guilty of a combination to raise their wages," and the court
sentenced them to pay a fine of eight dollars each, with costs of suit, and to stand committed
till paid.

MORAL TRAINING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

One of our popular clergymen, in a late Sunday discourse upon the Bible in the public schools,
labored to show that the question was a very unimportant one. because none were much interested
in it except infidels and politicians--a sufficiently absurd position for a professed teacher
of the people to assume. Doubtless it is a folly to fan into flame the slumbering embers of
a quarrel, but it is a greater folly to pretend, in the face of the common sense of the people,
that all signs of fire are extinguished or never existed where there is so much inflammable
material about and the "wind of doctrine" running high.

This question of secular education for our public schools is in fact one of the most difficult
of solution. Chicago has met it in a summary manner by excluding the Bible from all her free
schools, but this does not settle the question, because both believers and unbelievers in the
various creeds of the churches admit that there should be provision made for the training of
the moral faculties of the children in our public schools. Many of them, especially in cities
and large manufacturing centres, come out of the dark alleys where intemperance, poverty and
ignorance tend to arrest the development of their higher sentiments. For the unfortunate children
of such homes the sessions of the public school afford the only glimpse of a better life, the
only chance for moral and æsthetic culture. Protestants, as a rule, honestly believe that the
reading of the Bible at the opening of school tends to waken and develop the moral aspirations
of the child. Just as honestly and conscientiously do Catholics disbelieve in the efficacy
of Bible reading, while they boldly condemn secular education as a principle. He cannot give
them absolution and say, Innocens sum."

According to the American Annual Cyclopædia for 1875, the Roman Catholic Church has in the
United States 1 cardinal, 8 archbishops, 54 bishops, 4872 priests, 4731 churches, 1902 chapels,
68 colleges, 511 academies, and a lay membership numbering over 6,000,000. This shows a great
and increasing prosperity of that Church in this country; yet our institutions have nothing
to fear from that prosperity unless the principles of Catholicity support the "one-man power"
against the doctrine of the sovereignty of the people, the foundation-principle of republicanism.
Patriotic Catholic citizens claim that there is no conflict. They love their Church and their
country, and will labor to preserve peace and harmony. Yet how can harmony be maintained while
a large and increasing number of our tax-paying citizens, accepting their Church and its head
as infallible, are forced by their spiritual allegiance to send their children to Catholic
schools, though at the same time paying taxes to support those "godless" public schools condemned
by the infallible Church? To take the ground that these two powers, the Catholic Church and
our government, do not conflict, because one is a spiritual and the other a civil power, is
simply absurd. We see that they do conflict. The pope interferes with the civil rights of our
citizens when--as, for example, in his encyclical letter of December 8, 1874--he commands all
Catholics to treat the liberty of speech, of the press, of conscience and of worship, the separation
of Church and State and the secular education of youth, as "reprobatas, proscriptas, atque
damnatas."

THE EARLIEST PRINTED BOOKS.

A recent lecture of the Rev. Dr. Storrs in New York, before the Society for the Advancement
of Science and Art, must have been very interesting to an ordinary audience, but for one composed
of professed promoters of learning it could hardly have been sufficiently exact to give general
satisfaction if the newspaper reports of it were at all correct. They represent the lecturer
as saying that an immense number of books date back to 1450. Now, the first printed book bearing
a date is the Psalter of Füst and Schoeffer, 1457. A portion of the Bible was printed by Gutenberg
and Füst in 1450, but the work was so expensive and so imperfect that it was abandoned. In
1452, after Schoeffer joined the firm, another Bible is supposed to have been printed, but
no copy of it is known to exist. Of course it is well known that many of the earliest printed
books are without date, but none could have been printed before 1450; and there is no proof,
we believe, that the Bible said to be of 1455 bore that or any date. In that year the firm
of Gutenberg, Füst and Schoeffer dissolved. L. Grégoire in his Dictionnaire Encyclopédique,
published in Paris in 1817, says that there are only three or four copies of the Füst Bible
known to exist. Dr. Storrs, however, says, without giving his authority, that there are fifteen.

The sole idea of the early printers was to imitate exactly the manuscript characters of the
scribes. The initial letters of the Bibles and the numbers of the chapters were therefore added
with a pen in blue and red ink alternately; and there is not the slightest doubt that these
first books were palmed off upon an unsuspecting public as manuscripts. All the servants or
employés of Füst and Schoeffer were put under solemn oath to divulge nothing of the secret
concerning printing. It is to the policy which the first printers exerted to conceal their
art that we owe the tradition of the Devil and Dr. Faustus. Füst having printed off quite a
number of Bibles, and had the large initial letters added by hand, he took them to Paris and
sold them for about fifty dollars apiece. The scribes demanded about ten times that sum, and
they earned the money, for it must have been an herculean task to copy, as they did, every
letter of the Bible with such exquisite care, and then draw and illuminate the heads of the
chapters and the initial letters. It was a marvel how this new man could produce these ponderous
books at so low a rate. And then the uniformity of the letters and the pages increased the
wonder, until the cry of "sorcerer" was raised: complaints before the magistrates were made
against him, his lodgings were searched and a great number of copies were found and confiscated.
The populace in their ignorance and superstition declared that he was in league with the devil,
and that the red ink with which the books were embellished was his blood. It is a satisfaction
to know that the Parliament of Paris passed an act to discharge the sorcerer from all prosecution
in consideration of the usefulness of his art.

M.H.

FLOWERS VS. FLIES.

An Irish clergyman is said to have discovered last autumn a charming antidote to flies, which
it is only a pity he could not have lighted on rather earlier in the season. Having occasion
to change his abode, he sent on his window-plants, calceolarias and geraniums, to that which
he intended to occupy several days before he went himself, and immediately found that he was
pestered with flies, whereas previously he had enjoyed perfect immunity from the nuisance.
A more agreeable remedy cannot be conceived. Next autumn let our windows be a blaze of brilliancy,
so that all visitors to the Centennial may say, at all events, "There are no flies in Philadelphia."

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

Shakespeare Hermeneutics; or, The Still Lion. Being an Essay towards the Restoration of Shakespeare's
Text. By C.M. Ingleby, M.A., LL.D. London: Trübner & Co.

Setting aside those who care merely to see a play on the stage, it may be said that of Shakespeare
there are readers and readers; and both classes have rights and privileges which should be
treated with deference. The reader who studies every line should not fleer at him who studies
not at all. Have we not a right to read a play of Shakespeare's through in two short hours,
surrendering ourselves, unvexed by logic or grammar, to the enchantment which scenes and phrases
and words conjure up as they glide through our minds? When all the atmosphere is tremulous
with airs from heaven or blasts from hell, must we, forsooth! stop and philosophically investigate
what Hamlet means by a "dram of eale"? Must we lose a scruple of the sport by turning aside
to find out what Malvolio means by the "lady of the Strachey"? If Timon chooses to invite Ullorxa
to his feast, are we to bar the door because no one ever heard the name before? No: let us
have our Shakespeare (is he not as much ours as yours?) free from all notes, on a page purified
from the musty cobwebs of black-letter pedants. We want no jargon of bickering critics to drown
the music that sings at Heaven's gate. Give us those immortal plays just as Shakespeare wrote
them, that we may read them without let or hinderance.

But, fair and softly, is not this the very point at which we are striving? With all our twistings
and turnings, our patchings and piecings, have we aught else in view than to decipher just
what Shakespeare wrote? Where are Shakespeare's exact words to be found? Not in the so-called
Quartos; for they are said by Shakespeare's intimate and dear friends to have been "maimed
and deformed by the frauds and stealthes of injurious impostors," and taken down perhaps from
the lips of some of the actors, bribed by stoops of liquor at Yaughan's (and from the gibberish
here and there set down it is to be feared that the potations were at times pottle deep). Nor
can we take the Folio in which all his dramas were first collected: Shakespeare never saw a
line of it; for seven years he had been hid in death's dateless night when that volume was
printed. What, then, is to be done? The Quartos and Folios are all the authority we have, and
none of them present what can be held to have been undeniably Shakespeare's exact words. In
dealing with the text we must never for a moment forget that there stands, and will for ever
stand, as interpreters between us and Shakespeare, a crew of dishonest actors or of more or
less ignorant compositors. Is such a text, thus transmitted, to be held in reverence so deep
that not a syllable is to be changed for fear of the cry that we are tampering with the words
of Shakespeare? Is the curse in his epitaph on the mover of his bones to hang over his text?
Small reverence for Shakespeare does it betoken, in our opinion, to believe this. Rather, let
us regard these pages of the Folio as what they virtually are in so many cases--namely, as
but little better than our modern proof-sheets. And they should be dealt with accordingly by
a modern critic; but only on one condition precedent: he must be Shakespeare's peer. In default
of this we can only humbly erase here, and reverently suggest there, summoning to our aid all
possible knowledge, lest in plucking up the tares we pluck up the wheat also.

And this is really all that textual criticism for the last hundred and forty years has aimed
at--merely to get at what Shakespeare really wrote. We know that he could not write sheer nonsense,
and yet at times sheer nonsense mows at us from his printed page. Those who clamor for Shakespeare's
text, pure and simple, divested of all notes and annotations, have no idea how much thought
and time have been expended on every line,--nay, on every word, on every comma,--in the text
of any good modern edition of his dramas, and with the single aim, be it remembered, of revealing
exactly what the poet wrote.

It must not, however, be thought that since the original texts of Shakespeare's plays are so
corrupt, any criticaster has good leave to expunge or expand at will, under a roving commission
to hack and hew wheresoever and howsoever it may please him, under the plea of restoring the
text. On the contrary, since we cannot fulfill the condition precedent of being Shakespeare's
peers, we must exercise the greatest caution in changing a reading of the Quartos or Folios,
lest in condemning the text as corrupt we pass judgment on our own wit.

  He who the sword of Heaven would bear
  Must be as holy as severe.

And we must be very sure that the passage is corrupt before we set about amending it. First
and last, we must remember that primal elder law, that of two readings the more difficult is
to be preferred. Durior lectio preferenda 'st should be a frontlet between our brows. The weaker
reading or the plainer meaning is more likely to be a printer's interpretation of what he failed
to comprehend.

But to understand Shakespeare's meaning in a degree that will authorize us to amend the text,
we must understand Shakespeare's speech; that is, we must be thoroughly familiar with the words
and usages of Elizabethan English; and not only with Elizabethan words and phrases, but also,
as far as possible, with the very pronunciation.

This fundamental principle is well enforced and illustrated in Dr. Ingleby's book, which was
originally published in one of the Annuals of the German Shakespeare Society under the title
of The Still Lion, a title suggested by a passage in De Quincey, where the danger of meddling
with Milton's text is compared to that of meddling with a still lion, which may be neither
dead nor sleeping, but merely shamming. Dr. Ingleby substitutes Shakespeare for Milton, and
maintains that the mass of Shakespearian emendations that have been proposed during the last
twenty years are needless; and that corruptions have been assumed where none exist, owing to
the limited knowledge possessed by the critics. Thus, for instance, in the Comedy of Errors
(I. i. 152) the Duke bids Aegeon to "seek thy help by beneficial help." At once there is a
chorus from all of us, sciolists, of "Corruption!" "Sophistication!" "Cacophonous repetition!"
etc. etc. "But gently, friends," says Dr. Ingleby: "may not 'help' have borne a different or
a special meaning in Elizabethan English?" and turning to medical writers and books on medicine
of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries (among them Dr. John Hall, Shakespeare's own son-in-law),
he proves that heal and help having a common origin, help was used by Shakespeare's contemporaries
as a synonym for cure, deliverance. The text, then, is perfectly correct, Ægeon being bid to
seek his deliverance from the doom of death by the help of what friends he can find. The lion's
slumbers were here of the lightest, and happy men be our dole to have escaped with whole skins.
Thus Dr. Ingleby takes up passage after passage of Shakespeare that has been pronounced corrupt,
and shows that the fault imputed to it lies not in the text, but in the lack of requisite knowledge,
be it of language, of usage, of manners and customs, or even of Elizabethan spelling and grammar,
on the part of the critic. The mischief that ignorance has done in the past is irrevocable,
but such impressive warnings as Dr. Ingleby gives us may help, in both senses of the word,
in the future. We may be spared, hereafter, the infliction of numberless "felicitous" conjectures,
on which the following is scarcely a parody. It was proposed many years ago in sport by the
late deeply-lamented Chauncey Wright, and, as far as we know, has never yet appeared in print,
though it may live to be gravely noted down in some future Variorum, being a genuine echo of
many a note by Zachary Jackson or Andrew Beckett. In As You Like It occur the familiar lines,
"And thus our life ... finds ... books in the running brooks, sermons in stones," etc. "This
is stark nonsense, and must be remedied. Who ever found a book in a rivulet or a sermon in
a rock? It is clearly an error of a most ignorant or careless compositor, who has transposed
the nouns. Read, 'stones in the running brooks and sermons in books.' Sense is vindicated.
Stones are frequently found in brooks. David chose smooth pebbles from the brook, and sermons
are quite frequently printed and sold in a book-form. By this restoration Shakespeare's wonderful
observation is," etc., etc., etc.

Great as is the service done in particular cases, the most valuable part of The Still Lion
is the moral which it points, that "successful emendation is the fruit of severe study and
research on the one hand, and of rare sensibility and sense on the other." And in our opinion
Dr. Ingleby might have gone even farther, and demanded for it a spark of that creative power
which is genius. But it must not be inferred that all the difficult passages in Shakespeare
can be thus explained away. Despite all learning, or acuteness, or genius, there remains a
considerable number that have never yet been solved, and never will be, in general acceptation,
till the crack of doom. These, however, bear so small a proportion to the vast mass of perplexing
riddles that have been satisfactorily settled that, like an infinitely small quantity in mathematics,
they may be neglected. Therefore, let not him who wishes to read his Shakespeare unalloyed
by notes and textual comment, despise the painful critic or accuse him of playing at loggats
with the words of Shakespeare. It is through the labors of critics that the text is in such
a shape that the work-a-day reader can read it at all. In the Folios and Quartos we see Shakespeare
as through a glass darkly, but, thanks to those drudges, the commentators, in numberless places
we can now see him face to face.

