"From the 14th to the 18th century the salute (at first by lowering the topsail, and later
by dipping the flag) was more or less jealously claimed by English ships of war from all other
ships, whether foreign men-of-war or English or foreign merchantmen. While there was no nation
strong enough to resist the English claim (and this was especially the case while England held
possessions on both sides of the Channel) the salute was pretty generally accorded, and it
was not until the 17th century that any serious resistance was made. During almost the whole
of that century an acute controversy raged about the meaning and the scope of the Sovereignty
of the Seas. The English case was bolstered up by doubtful documents, such as an alleged Ordinance
of King John, said to have been issued at Hastings in 1200, but now acknowledged to be a forgery.

In 1635, Selden published his 'Mare Clausum' in support of the English claim. Apparently he
was moved to this by the publication by Grotius in 1633 of 'Mare Liberum,' though the latter
was more directly aimed at the monopoly claimed by the Portuguese in the East Indies. Probably
Selden wrote with his tongue in his cheek to please Charles I., for he is said to have made
ridicule of his own book in private conversation.

The English, however, were not content to enforce their claim by words, but often during the
16th and 17th centuries enforced it by cannon shot.

The arrogant claim that any vessel (a yacht for instance) bearing the Union flag must be saluted
by foreign ships, and even by a foreign fleet of men-of-war, was much resented by the Dutch
after they had crushed Spain, and was one of the causes that led to the outbreak of the First
Dutch War (1652-4) though commercial jealousy was the prime cause.

The first battle (Dover, May, 1652) was occasioned by Tromp flaunting his flag in the face
of Blake.

This war turned out, on the whole, sufficiently favourable to the English to enable them to
secure a clause in the Treaty of peace in 1654--

'That the ships and vessels of the United Provinces, as well those fitted for war as others,
meeting any Ship of War of the said Commonwealth in the British Seas, shall strike their Flag,
and lower their Topsail in such manner as had been any time before practised under any Government.'

Similar clauses occur in the Treaty of Westminster, 1662, and that of Breda (which ended the
Second Dutch War), 1667. The Treaty closing the Third Dutch War (Westminster, 1673) has a similar
article, but the seas are defined.

During the 18th century the claim does not seem to have been often enforced, and by the time
of the Peace of Amiens, 1803, when the ancient claim to the Sovereignty of France was formally
abandoned, the claim to the salute had become extinct."] The traditional, but none the less
galling, assumption of the titular sovereignty and arms of France, by the English King, was
another cause of emphatic complaint. The French Court knew enough of England's financial weakness,
to judge the moment propitious for pressing these subjects of dispute. Clarendon thought it
well, to begin, at least, by assuming an independent and combative tone. He strove, under the
compulsion to which many a diplomat has had to yield, to cover his weakness by proud words,
and he managed to provoke Louis XIV. to angry remonstrances, and even to threats of war. It
was to Clarendon personally that the French King ascribed the supercilious tone of the English
demands, and it was his compliance that Louis and his Ministers chiefly sought to gain. The
Powers abroad knew what Clarendon's work for the exiled Court had been. They could estimate
the value of his statesmanship, and dreaded him as England's most efficacious Minister. But
they attributed to him a power which, hampered as he was, was never truly his. Clarendon was
in truth attempting an impossible task, and he fought with fettered hands. He could expect
no support from the King, who was already allured by the prospects of financial assistance,
skilfully held out by Louis. It was hard to maintain a proud defiance amidst the perplexities
of divided counsels, of selfish intrigues, and of a bankrupt exchequer. He had to temporize
as to the King's title, and to accept the abrogation of the token of respect to England's supremacy
upon the seas. The imperious tone was one which no Minister of Charles II. could longer safely
assume.

Another far more substantial concession to French demands soon after came up for discussion.

It was a striking tribute to Cromwell's influence abroad that the sea-port of Dunkirk, when
conquered by the allied Powers, had, according to treaty, been handed over to the keeping of
the English Commonwealth. It was not the only important possession which the restored King
of England owed to the prowess of the rebels by whom he had been exiled, and to whose conquests
he was now the heir. As to its value there were doubts. Although it had been a troublesome
hive of privateers, the place was reckoned not to be really of much strategical importance,
and the naval experts had already expressed doubts whether its value was equivalent to the
expense which it involved. The revenue of England was sorely crippled, and the possession of
Dunkirk not only involved heavy expenditure, but was a very probable source of expensive warlike
complications. It was from Lord Southampton, who, as Treasurer, felt the financial burden most,
that the first suggestion of parting with it came. The exchequer was in ill state to stand
further drains, and Tangier and Bombay, however beneficial their possession might ultimately
become, were now nothing but sources of heavy expense. Southampton imparted his misgivings
to the King, and sought for some device by which he might shift some part of the constantly
growing expenditure. Could Dunkirk not be handed over as a damnosa hereditas? The naval experts
were consulted, and were ready not only to acquiesce, but to avow their opinion that Dunkirk
offered no advantages equivalent to its cost, which was reckoned at not less than a hundred
and twenty thousand a year. Southampton told the Chancellor of his difficulties, and propounded
to him the scheme for lightening them; but found Clarendon so averse to a proposal for parting
with any naval stronghold, that even the entire confidence bred of their old friendship did
not tempt the Treasurer to reopen a subject so distasteful until some definite proposal could
be framed. The General (Albemarle) and he laid it before the King so urgently, that Charles
was attracted by a scheme which offered the tempting bait of financial provision, and at length
it was formally brought before that secret and select Council which consulted upon all matters
of prime importance. It could no longer be kept from the Chancellor; and Clarendon's illness
made it necessary on this, as on many other occasions, to summon the Council to his sickroom,
where, besides the King and the Duke of York, the Chancellor and the Treasurer, with Albemarle,
Sandwich, Sir George Carteret, and the two secretaries of State, were present. Southampton
knew the opposition he had to expect from Clarendon, and playfully asked the King, when he
entered the room, "to take the Chancellor's staff from him, otherwise he would break his Treasurer's
head." Charles told Clarendon that the business to be debated was one which he knew that Clarendon
would oppose; but when he had heard the arguments, he thought they would change his view. Steps
had evidently been taken with care to prepare the ground and marshall the arguments. The naval
and military experts explained the small strategical value of the place, its ineffectiveness
as a naval base, and the deficiencies of its land defences. Against such arguments Clarendon
was, of course, powerless; and it was equally impossible for him to argue away the heavy burden
on a crippled treasury, of which the Treasurer begged to be relieved. To hold the place longer
was only too likely to involve a costly war with one or both of the Powers of France and Spain,
and it was a source of irritation to the United Provinces as well. Not only were the arguments
strong, but the Chancellor was soon convinced that he had not been consulted until those who
desired to effect a profitable bargain had already gained the determined adherence of the King.
It was no part of Clarendon's practice to argue in the face of impossibilities. Little remained
for him or any other Minister but to decide with which Power it was possible to strike the
best bargain, and which it was most expedient to conciliate.

There are some variations between the various accounts that have reached us as to the first
author of the suggestion. Sandwich, in a conversation with Pepys, [Footnote: In February, 1666.]
averred that he himself was the first adviser, and this account is partially confirmed by what
Sir Robert Southwell told, in 1670, of a conversation between Sandwich and himself in October,
1667. On the other hand, D'Estrades, the French envoy, asserts-- what would give the lie to
what Clarendon avers in his Life with convincing proof and elaborate circumstantiality--that
Clarendon had told him that he was himself the author of the proposal. As regards Pepys's report,
Sandwich, probably, after the common fashion of experts, assigned too much importance to his
own expert advice; while the French envoy might easily have misunderstood the attitude assumed
by Clarendon, who was bound, of course, to submit to the French diplomat even proposals which
he disliked as if he entirely concurred in them. We need have no difficulty in assuming Clarendon's
own deliberate and written account to be substantially correct. That he was brought unwillingly
to concur in a proposal which had virtually obtained the assent of the King, is confirmed by
the fact that in his speech to Parliament in May, 1662, he condemned the murmurs against the
cost of Dunkirk, on the ground that it was a diadem of which the English Crown could only be
deprived at the cost of great danger. It was no part of Clarendon's character to decline a
responsibility which was his own; nor was it his inclination to part lightly with anything
that added to the dignity of the English Crown. That the first suggestion did not come from
him may be accepted on his own solemn averment; but it is also strongly confirmed by inherent
probability.

It remained only to decide with which Power the bargain should be made. Policy, it might have
been held, should have some influence in determining the choice, at a moment when international
relations were so delicately poised. But Clarendon tells us that, strangely enough, the only
question was, Who would give the highest price? Both Spain and France were eager to have the
sea-port. Of the two Spain was by far the most popular in England; but she was not likely to
be so good a purchaser. She claimed the cession of Dunkirk as a right, and it is always improbable
that one who puts forward such a claim should be inclined either to pay heavy purchase- money,
or to owe a deep debt of gratitude, for what is claimed as a right. Above all, the coffers
of Spain were in no condition to meet a heavy payment. At best, there would have been tedious
delay, during which the heavy expenditure on the maintenance of Dunkirk would have continued
to fall on the English Treasury. To part with the sea-port to the United Provinces might have
secured a better price than from either of the Crowns; but it would have been a signal of war
to both of these, and the United Provinces themselves might have found it a costly and embarrassing
possession.

It was with France, therefore, that the haggling had to be done, and it was prosecuted with
all the eagerness of the auction mart. Such transactions can never be very dignified. The cession
of an important sea- port must necessarily be galling to national pride, and an injury to national
prestige; and in this case was the more damaging from the tenure of Dunkirk being the token
of Cromwell's proud supremacy abroad. The chaffering went on through all the usual stages of
alternate bluff and concession on both sides. The final settlement secured for Charles a payment
of some two hundred thousand pounds. In the reckoning of the day that was held to be a considerable
sum. It possessed the merit, no inconsiderable one in the mind of the King, of being at least
free from any of the embarrassments of a Parliamentary grant. Apart from the actual money paid,
the Treasury was relieved of an expenditure of about one hundred and twenty thousand pounds
annually. Of all such vantage posts abroad, Dunkirk was perhaps the least useful, and the most
risky to hold. Trifling as was the price obtained according to our reckoning, it was nevertheless
of importance in the actual state of the exchequer. But the nation invariably shows itself
sensitive to the loss of honour implied in such a cession, and is glad to have a victim on
which to wreak its irritation. It was on Clarendon that its unreasoning vengeance fell, and
at a later day the blame for an arrangement which he did not initiate, and which at first he
earnestly opposed, aggravated his growing unpopularity. Once more he had had to content himself,
not with the policy he most approved, but with that which suited best the exigencies of the
time; and he had to bear the blame for action to which he unwillingly consented. It is the
hardest lot for the statesman, because it is that which his enemies impute as a crime, and
for which his friends can only offer an apology.

Whatever the injury to national dignity, the transaction not only gave substantial pecuniary
relief, but it seemed to promise, for the time, a secure foreign alliance. The irritation on
the side of France was allayed, and Louis abandoned that tone of offence against Clarendon,
which he had repeatedly used to his ambassador, and which showed that he regarded the policy
of the Chancellor as the most serious menace to his power. The cordiality between England and
France was perhaps insecure, but it was cemented by their common interest in maintaining the
independence of Portugal, and that, again, offered good prospects to the trading interest of
England.

But, at home, Clarendon found his influence threatened by increasing virulence of intrigue,
and by new scandals and dissensions at Court. To the world at large he was still the all-powerful
Minister. Only a few months before, Dryden had poured out a poetical tribute, from that mint
of flattery of which his expenditure was so lavish, and had told Clarendon that he and the
King bounded the horizon of the universe to their country, and had compared his wise counsels
to the rich perfumes of the East. Even Louis XIV. did not think it below his dignity to solicit
the Chancellor's favour, and to be jealous of his power. But Clarendon was not blind to the
influences that were undermining that power. Hitherto he and Southampton had managed Parliamentary
affairs through a small knot of members of tried fidelity and experience. Such management called
for wary and cautious treatment, if jealousy was not to be aroused amongst the Parliamentary
ranks. The idea of government by an organized party in Parliament was as yet unknown to our
political practice, and would not have met with any favour from Clarendon. To him a Minister
was the servant of the King, and in no way the nominee of any Party. None the less the germs
of the new system, all undiscerned by himself or his contemporaries, were developing during
his Ministry. We have already seen the knot of courtiers who were held together chiefly by
a common--although not clearly avowed--jealousy of the Chancellor. Ashley, Buckingham, Bristol,
and Lauderdale, were the chief members of that confederacy; and they soon found means to introduce
new instruments to help in working the Parliamentary machine. The most notable of these were
Sir William Coventry, the son of Clarendon's old friend, Lord Chancellor Coventry, and Sir
Henry Bennet, who is better known to history by the name of the Earl of Arlington, which was
the title conferred upon him in 1672. [Footnote: He was created Baron Arlington in 1664.] The
influence of these two in Parliament, as the accredited agents of the Court, began with the
session of 1663, which opened on February 18th, and closed on July 27th. For William Coventry,
Clarendon had a deep- rooted dislike, which was increased rather than lessened by Clarendon's
respect for his father, and his good-will to his brother, Henry Coventry. [Footnote: Henry
Coventry was the elder brother of Sir William. He had more than once been useful in embassies
to Sweden, where he seems to have acquired some of the convivial habits of that country. Without
his brother's wit, dexterity, or eloquence, he seems to have joined more than his frankness
to a blustering manner.] William Coventry's was one of those "unconversable" natures which
moved Clarendon's aversion. A sullen temper, a censorious habit, and a pride that led him to
belittle all in which he was not chief agent, were precisely the traits of character which
Clarendon distrusted and disliked. He admits Coventry's abilities, and gives him credit for
being exempt from the degrading coarseness which was typical of the Court. His portrait is
painted for us in a few sentences with all the consummate skill of the historian of the Rebellion.

"He was a sullen, ill-natured, proud man, whose ambition had no limits, nor could be contained
within any. His parts were very good, if he had not thought them better than any other man's;
and he had diligence and industry, which men of good parts are too often without.... He was
without those vices which were too much in request, and which make men most unfit for business
and the trust that cannot be separated from it."

Clarendon's genius for character-drawing never suffers him to paint even the portraits of his
enemies all in black. [Footnote: Clarendon's prejudice against Coventry, however, in spite
of the admission of his ability, was abnormally strong, and we shall find reason later to doubt
whether Clarendon did not in this case allow personal resentment to blind him to some of Coventry's
merits.] Such was his conception of the man who now became Secretary to the Duke of York, and
an active centre of intrigue.

Sir Henry Bennet was a foeman of another kind. It was during the period of exile that he had
managed to ingratiate himself with Charles, and their subsequent intimacy was coloured by the
scenes which they had once shared together. Bennet was the natural product of an exiled Court,
forced to have recourse to shifts of no dignified kind, and breathing an atmosphere of cynicism
and distrust. He knew nothing of, and cared, if possible, still less for, the Constitution
or the laws of England. He was one of those who cultivated the friendship of Spain, with whose
leading statesmen he had close relations, and who saw in that friendship a balance to the Portuguese
alliance and the policy which Clarendon was believed to pursue. He had no Parliamentary talents,
and entered Parliament for the first time during the session of 1663, But he was a pledged
and trusted member of the little Court cabal, which was now determined to organize a party
in Parliament to oppose the Chancellor's power. It became a part of their scheme to find a
place for Bennet where he could exercise a distinct influence upon administration. The preliminary
arrangements for this were made without the Chancellor's knowledge. That stout and faithful
servant of the King, and sure friend of the Chancellor, Sir Edward Nicholas, was now feeling
the weight of years. His ample experience and tried fidelity weighed for nothing in the minds
of the Court clique, who desired his place for Bennet. The King was easily persuaded to adopt
the view that the Chancellor found, in two old and weak secretaries, conveniently subservient
tools. Tempting terms were proposed to Nicholas. Suggestions were skilfully thrown out that
he should quit his employment, receiving the ample provision of £10,000 in lieu of it, and
also some notable token of the gratitude and respect of the King. It was only natural that
the old man--whose memories of public service carried him back to the days when he had been
amongst the followers of the Duke of Buckingham at the time of his assassination, nearly forty
years before--should accept the proposal readily. How it seemed to Clarendon is best seen in
his own words. "It cost the King, in present money and land on lease, very little less than
twenty thousand pounds, to bring in a servant whom very few cared for, in place of an old servant
whom everybody loved." [Footnote: Life, ii. 228.] The little faction who were intent upon their
selfish plans for ousting the Chancellor recked very little of lavish expenditure. The same
move that made the secretaryship of Nicholas vacant for Bennet, left Bennet's place of Privy
Purse available for another of the new favourites and conspirators--Sir Charles Berkeley. [Footnote:
Soon after created Earl of Falmouth.] Amongst the crowd of discredited and dishonest intriguers
none was more vile or contemptible than he. In earlier days his character was too notorious
to be tolerated even by Charles; but there were tricks and services, to which Berkeley made
no scruple of stooping, and which served to secure, first the tolerance, and then the friendship,
of the King. These changes in the official world were all menaces to Clarendon's power.

It was one of the ironies of fate that the baser influences, now gaining new power at Court,
created or stimulated discontent, the brunt of which fell on Clarendon, against whose authority
these influences were chiefly directed. The moral sense of the nation was being gradually provoked.
That sense is regulated by no great judgment, and often moves under violent prejudice; but
it slowly yet surely shapes itself on sound foundations. The reaction against Puritanism had
carried the nation far in the direction of tolerance even of lax morality; but the scandals
of the Court had already begun to outrage the nation's sense of decency; and when outraged
decency is combined with increased pressure of taxation and decreasing prosperity, the united
force becomes a menacing threat. It was a comparative trifle that the King's alleged bastard
[Footnote: He was born in 1646, and the King's age at the time justified doubts, which the
lady's lavish favours did not diminish.] by the notorious Lucy Waters, was now formally introduced
at Court under the name of Crofts; was married to the heiress of the Earl of Buccleuch, and
was speedily created Duke of Monmouth. Such relationships had before been tacitly recognized
but not explicitly avowed; now for the first time the patent of nobility declared the youth
to be the natural son of the King. Vice laid aside that homage of hypocrisy which it had before
paid to virtue. It was an innovation which Clarendon firmly opposed. "It would have," he told
the King quite plainly, "an ill sound in England with all his people, who thought that these
unlawful acts ought to be concealed, and not published and justified." [Footnote: Life, ii.
255.] Precedents from France and Spain would not pass current in England; and even if these
precedents were admitted, they would hardly parallel the ennobling of the bastard of a notorious
courtezan, born when the King was scarcely sixteen years of age, and whose parentage was, to
say the least, doubtful.

By themselves such domestic scandals may perhaps count for little. But when they are accompanied
by growing discontent, resting upon solid grounds, the aggregate of irritation becomes considerable.
Our foreign commerce was seriously crippled, and our manufactures found no outlet. The home
markets were interfered with by foreign goods imported during the recent years of unsettlement
in exaggerated quantities. The large advances made by the bankers to meet taxes heavily in
arrear produced a scarcity of money, and this again led to a serious fall in rents. There was
hardly a class in the nation which was not suffering by the prevailing insecurity; and these
sufferings were aggravated by increasing taxation, by declining national credit, and by the
fears of insurrection, and of renewed civil war, caused by the decaying reverence for the Crown.
No one recognized more clearly than Clarendon, or detested more cordially, the scandals that
tarnished the restored monarchy; to no one did they bring a fuller crop of crushed hopes, and
baffled efforts. Fortune's cynical injustice was never more clearly shown.

To some of the clique of Clarendon's enemies it seemed as if the time had come to strike a
decisive blow. Stories of his impending fall were rife. Pepys, repeating the gossip of the
day, and the tittle-tattle of the back stairs, tells us how "they have cast my Lord Chancellor
on his back past ever getting up again." [Footnote: Pepys, May 15th, 1663.] Bristol was the
first who determined to take overt action against the Chancellor. His first effort was a singularly
inept one, and involved one of the confederates much more than Clarendon. Bristol had hopes,
it would appear, of arranging for himself a body of "undertakers" in the House of Commons,
who were to take upon themselves the management of measures desired by the Crown. He had offered
to Charles the services of Sir Richard Temple, who, he asserted, would, if trusted, undertake
that the King's business would be effected, and revenue settled. Coventry, whose special functions
were thus threatened, reported the words, as those which had been used to the King "by a person
of quality," to the House, which thus saw its independence flagrantly assailed; and on the
petition of the House, the King disclosed the name of the Earl of Bristol as his informant.
Bristol craved to be heard by the House in his own defence; and addressed them in that tone
of theatrical vanity and rhodomontade in which he was apt to indulge. The whole transaction
is a little obscure, and its objects seem inconclusive. The world was already accustomed to
these outbursts of Bristol's self-advertising folly.

But his next step was more direct and more audacious. It was no less than the impeachment of
the Lord Chancellor. He consulted the King, who endeavoured to dissuade him, but to whose dissuasions
Bristol's insolent reply was, that if he were not supported, "he would raise such disorders
that all England should feel them, and the King himself should not be without a large share
in them." [Footnote: Burnet, i. 339.] The interview was evidently a stormy one, and Bristol
did not scruple to threaten his King in language for which he had afterwards to offer the most
abject apology.

The charges which Bristol, in spite of these warnings, formulated against Clarendon in the
House of Lords, were flimsy and fanciful even for his contriving. Clarendon, it was alleged,
had arrogated to himself a superior direction in all his Majesty's affairs. He had abused the
trust by insinuating that the King was inclined to popery; [Footnote: These charges from one
who, on grounds of conscience that were more than suspected, had joined the Roman Catholic
Church, are worthy of Bristol's audacious inconsistency.] he had alleged that the King had
removed Nicholas, a zealous Protestant, in order to bring in Bennet, a concealed Papist; he
had solicited from the Pope a Cardinal's hat for Lord Aubigny as the price of suspension of
the Penal Laws against Catholics; he had been responsible for irregularities in the King's
marriage; he had uttered scandals against the King's course of life; he had given out that
the King intended to legitimize the Duke of Monmouth; had persuaded the King to withdraw the
garrisons from Scotland; had advised the sale of Dunkirk; had told the King that the House
of Lords was "weak and inconsiderable," and the House of Commons "weak and heady;" and he had
enriched himself and his followers by illegitimate means.

It is difficult to understand how even the blind vanity and over-weening self-importance of
Bristol could have persuaded him that this string of absurdities could injure the Chancellor,
or obtain credence even from his most prejudiced foes. There was not a single item that could
involve a charge of treason even if true, and some of the allegations imputed to Clarendon
opinions and aims to which he was notoriously opposed. It was evident that Bristol had been
inspired only by an insane desire to charge against Clarendon anything which seemed likely
to attach some unpopularity to his name.

At Clarendon's desire the charges laid against him were referred to the judges, who unanimously
reported that the accusations had been irregularly made, and that, even if they were admitted
to be true, they involved no treason. The King sent a message to the Lords, to inform them
that some of the facts alleged were, to his own certain knowledge, untrue. Never were charges
more recklessly brought, and never did a weapon, forged against an enemy, towards whom Bristol
nursed an almost insane jealousy, turn with more deadly effect upon its contriver. A warrant
was issued for Bristol's arrest, and he escaped any more drastic punishment only by absconding.
But the episode closed for the time Bristol's career; and for a season it seemed to confirm
and re-establish the supremacy of Clarendon. One of his foes at least had been worsted in the
attempt to cast him on his back. But harder troubles than those raised by Bristol's ill-aimed
attack still awaited him.

CHAPTER XXI

THE DUTCH WAR

Bristol had shot his bolt prematurely, and was foiled in his attack upon Clarendon. For the
moment the Chancellor's authority seemed to be consolidated by the very machinations of his
enemies. But the rancour of the intriguers was none the less vigorous, and it required all
his courage and steadfastness to maintain the load of public care that hung upon him while
he saw his influence undermined by secret slander. He knew well that the King was listening
to those who spared no effort to excite his jealousy of Clarendon's control; that the easy
humour which prompted Charles to avoid a rupture was no trustworthy shield against the effects
of his growing irritation. He saw that the Court was sinking deeper in the mire of licentiousness
and corruption, and was daily rousing against it more emphatically the anger and contempt of
the nation, and making his own task of consolidation more hopeless. The anxieties and hardships
of long years of civil war, of exile, and of poverty, were telling sorely upon his own health,
and much of his work had to be carried on from a sick-bed, and under the strain of painful
illness. Ambition had never played a great part in his life; and even gratified ambition would
have been ill-paid by high place and sounding titles, when these were accompanied by baffled
hopes, and by the sight of his ideals fading into unreality. But his difficulties were now
to be increased, as he saw the nation gradually drifting into war, under the promptings of
a selfish and reckless faction, who exploited national jealousies for their own purposes, and,
mistaking a spirit of boastful bluster for courage and determination, sought to supply the
place of deliberate preparation by thoughtless provocations. And all the while he knew perfectly
well that, if disaster ensued, his enemies would lay the blame on him.

Between England and the Dutch Republic, the causes of irritation had been rapidly accumulating.
The centre of the commerce of the world had now shifted to North-Western Europe, and the growing
commercial interests of the day were a sure and increasing source of international jealousy.
The rivalry between England and Holland had begun before the Civil War, and during that war
Holland had found in England's distractions a splendid opportunity for stealing a march on
her most powerful rival. In her colonial enterprise she had easily outstript Spain and Portugal,
and more than held her own with England. Her trade was the largest of the world. Her fleet
was admirably equipped, and the great traditions of her naval commanders were worthily maintained
since the death of Van Tromp, by De Ruyter. If her marvellous prosperity carried within itself
the seeds of decay, these were not as yet apparent; and however dangerous were her internal
dissensions, they were for the time neutralized by the cunning and the capacity of De Witt.
No Power had better reason to recognize the imperial force of Cromwell, and none was more keenly
conscious of the contrast between his master will, and the vacillating and distracted counsels
that now prevailed at the Court of England. Clarendon saw the position as well as they. He
knew how poor was the bulwark supplied by the noisy loyalty of the Restoration, and how imperatively
necessary it was to consolidate authority at home before launching upon a foreign war. We have
already spoken of Cromwell's Navigation Act, forbidding any imports into England except those
carried in English ships, or in ships belonging to the country of origin, and of the deadly
wound which that Act had inflicted upon the Dutch carrying trade. The Act had, as we have seen,
been renewed by the Parliament of 1661; but it remained to be seen whether England could maintain
by force of arms the supremacy which such legislation assumed. If this was to be done, it could
be only by careful preparation, by establishing a sound financial system, and by presenting
a united front. All these essentials were ignored by the recklessness of Clarendon's enemies,
and his efforts to secure them were baffled by the profusion, the waywardness, and the petty
irritation of the King.

The Dutch could offer no direct opposition to the Navigation Laws; but in colonial affairs
they had ample opportunity for inflicting injury upon England, and they were not slow to avail
themselves of it. A tariff war between the two countries had already begun. The woollen manufacturers
of England were threatened by the high import duties imposed by the Dutch upon English goods;
and England endeavoured to meet these by prohibiting the export of wool. Each Parliamentary
session saw new import duties imposed upon foreign goods imported into England, and in many
cases their importation was absolutely prohibited. The rivalry in the fishing trade led to
conflicts which were carried almost to the point of war, and the fishing fleets from the Dutch
and English ports both reckoned, as an ordinary experience, on having to defend themselves
by armed force. But it was on the West coast of Africa, and in the East Indies, that the two
Powers came into most serious collision, and there the bitterness of rivalry was increased
by a long catalogue of wrongs suffered on both sides. The estrangement was intensified when
the chief colonial rival of Holland seemed likely to become, by the marriage treaty, the ally
of England, and when Portugal threatened, in the confidence of that alliance, to prosecute
her schemes of vengeance for the aggressions of the Dutch. It became of the first importance
for the Dutch to patch up some sort of treaty with Portugal before the English alliance should
be cemented, and this was the object of the statesmen of the United Provinces. To counteract
this seemed to some to be the soundest policy for England.

