The Albert N'Yanza, Great Basin of the Nile And Explorations of the Nile Sources.

by Sir Samuel W. Baker, M.A., F.R.G.S.

Gold Medallist of the Royal Geographical Society.

To Her Most Gracious Majesty THE QUEEN I dedicate, with Her permission, THIS BOOK, Containing
the Story of the Discovery of the Great Lake From which the NILE ultimately flows, And which,
As connected so intimately, As a NILE SOURCE, with the VICTORIA LAKE, I have ventured to name
"THE ALBERT N'YANZA," In Memory of the Late Illustrious and Lamented PRINCE CONSORT.

PREFACE.

In the history of the Nile there was a void: its Sources were a mystery. The Ancients devoted
much attention to this problem; but in vain. The Emperor Nero sent an expedition under the
command of two centurions, as described by Seneca. Even Roman energy failed to break the spell
that guarded these secret fountains. The expedition sent by Mehemet Ali Pasha, the celebrated
Viceroy of Egypt, closed a long term of unsuccessful search.

The work has now been accomplished. Three English parties, and only three, have at various
periods started upon this obscure mission: each has gained its end.

Bruce won the source of the Blue Nile; Speke and Grant won the Victoria source of the great
White Nile; and I have been permitted to succeed in completing the Nile Sources by the discovery
of the great reservoir of the equatorial waters, the ALBERT N'YANZA, from which the river issues
as the entire White Nile.

Having thus completed the work after nearly five years passed in Africa, there still remains
a task before me. I must take the reader of this volume by the hand, and lead him step by step
along my rough path from the beginning to the end; through scorching deserts and thirsty sands;
through swamp, and jungle, and interminable morass; through difficulties, fatigues, and sickness,
until I bring him, faint with the wearying journey, to that high cliff where the great prize
shall burst upon his view--from which he shall look down upon the vast ALBERT LAKE, and drink
with me from the Sources of the Nile!

I have written "HE!" How can I lead the more tender sex through dangers and fatigues, and passages
of savage life? A veil shall be thrown over many scenes of brutality that I was forced to witness,
but which I will not force upon the reader; neither will I intrude anything that is not actually
necessary in the description of scenes that unfortunately must be passed through in the journey
now before us. Should anything offend the sensitive mind, and suggest the unfitness of the
situation for a woman's presence, I must beseech my fair readers to reflect, that the pilgrim's
wife followed him, weary and footsore, through all his difficulties, led, not by choice, but
by devotion; and that in times of misery and sickness her tender care saved his life and prospered
the expedition.

   "O woman, in our hours of ease
    Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,
    And variable as the shade
    By the light quivering aspen made;
    When pain and anguish wring the brow,
    A ministering angel thou!"

In the journey now before us I must request some exercise of patience during geographical details
that may be wearisome; at all events, I will adhere to facts, and avoid theory as much as possible.

The Botanist will have ample opportunities of straying from our path to examine plants with
which I confess a limited acquaintance. The Ethnologist shall have precisely the same experience
that I enjoyed, and he may either be enlightened or confounded. The Geologist will find himself
throughout the journey in Central Africa among primitive rocks. The Naturalist will travel
through a grass jungle that conceals much that is difficult to obtain: both he and the Sportsman
will, I trust, accompany me on a future occasion through the "Nile tributaries from Abyssinia,"
which country is prolific in all that is interesting. The Philanthropist,--what shall I promise
to induce him to accompany me? I will exhibit a picture of savage man precisely as he is; as
I saw him; and as I judged him, free from prejudice: painting also, in true colours, a picture
of the abomination that has been the curse of the African race, the SLAVE TRADE; trusting that
not only the philanthropist, but every civilized being, will join in the endeavour to erase
that stain from disfigured human nature, and thus open the path now closed to civilization
and missionary enterprise. To the Missionary,--that noble, self-exiled labourer toiling too
often in a barren field,--I must add the word of caution, "Wait"! There can be no hope of success
until the slave trade shall have ceased to exist.

The journey is long, the countries savage; there are no ancient histories to charm the present
with memories of the past; all is wild and brutal, hard and unfeeling, devoid of that holy
instinct instilled by nature into the heart of man--the belief in a Supreme Being. In that
remote wilderness in Central Equatorial Africa are the Sources of the Nile.

CONTENTS.

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER I.

THE EXPEDITION.

Programme--Start from Cairo--Arrive at Berber--Plan of Exploration-- The River Atbara--Abyssinian
Affluents--Character of Rivers--Causes of Nile Inundations--Violence of the Rains--Arrival
at Khartoum-- Description of Khartoum--Egyptian Authorities--Taxes--The Soudan-- Slave-Trade
of the Soudan--Slave-Trade of the White Nile--System of Operations--Inhuman Proceedings--Negro
Allies--Revelations of Slave-Trade--Distant Slave Markets--Prospects of the Expedition-- Difficulties
at the Outset--Opposition of the Egyptian Authorities-- Preparations for Sailing--Johann Schmidt--Demand
for Poll-Tax-- Collision before starting--Amiable Boy!--The Departure--The Boy Osman --Banks
of White Nile--Change in Disposition of Men--Character of the River--Misery of Scene--River
Vegetation--Ambatch Wood--Johann's Sickness--Uses of Fish-skin--Johann Dying--Johann's Death--New
Year --Shillook Villages--The Sobat River--Its Character--Bahr Giraffe-- Bahr el Gazal--Observations--Corporal
Richarn--Character of Bahr el Gazal--Peculiarity of River Sobat--Tediousness of Voyage--Bull
Buffalo--Sali Achmet killed--His Burial--Ferocity of the Buffalo-- "The Clumsy" on the Styx--Current
of White Nile--First View of Natives --Joctian and his Wife--Charming Husband--Natron--Catch
a Hippopotamus--"Perhaps it was his Uncle"--Real Turtle is Mock Hippopotamus--Richarn reduced
to the Ranks--Arrival at the Zareeba-- Fish Spearing--The Kytch Tribe--White Ant Towers--Starvation
in the Kytch Country--Destitution of the Natives--The Bull of the Herd--Men and Beasts in a
bad Temper--Aboukooka--Austrian Mission Station--Sale of the Mission-House--Melancholy Fate
of Baron Harnier--The Aliab Tribes--Tulmuli of Ashes--The Shir Tribe--The Lotus Harvest--Arrival
at Gondokoro--Discharge Cargo

CHAPTER II.

BAD RECEPTION AT GONDOKORO.

Reports of Speke and Grant--The Bari Tribe--Description of the Natives --Effects of poisoned
Arrows--Hostility of the Bari Tribe--Atrocities of the Trading Parties--Lawlessness at Gondokoro-A
Boy shot--The first Mutiny--Decision of my Wife--The Khartoum Escort--Arrival of Speke and
Grant--Gladness at meeting them--Their Appearance--Speke and Grant's Discoveries--Another Lake
reported to exist--Speke's Instructions--Arrange to explore the Luta N'zige--Scarcity at Gondokoro--Speke
and Grant depart to Khartoum

CHAPTER III.

GUN ACCIDENT.

Gun Accident--Birds ruin the Donkeys--Arrangement with Mahommed--His Duplicity--Plot to obstruct
my Advance--The Boy Saat--History of Saat --First Introduction to Saat--Turned out by Mistake--Saat's
Character --Something brewing--Mutiny of Escort--Preparation for the worst-- Disarm the Mutineers--Mahommed's
Desertion--Arrangement with Koorshid Aga--The last Hope gone--Expedition ruined--Resolution
to advance-- Richarn faithful--Bari Chief's Report--Parley with Mutineers-- Conspiracy again--Night
Visit of Fadeela--"Quid pro Quo"--"Adda," the Latooka--Arrange to start for Latooka--Threats
of Koorshid's People-- Determination to proceed--Start from Gondokoro--My own Guide.

CHAPTER IV.

FIRST NIGHT'S MARCH.

Bivouacking--Arrival at Belignan--Attempts at Conciliation--I shame my Men--The March--Advantages
of Donkeys--Advice for Travellers-- Want of Water--A forced March--Its Difficulties--Delays
on the Road-- Cleverness of the Donkeys--Party dead-beat--Improvidence of Monkey-- We obtain
Water--Native Tit-Bits--Surrounded by Natives-- Cross-Examination--Recognition of the Chief--Interest
of Natives--The Monkey Wallady--We leave Tollogo--The Ellyria Pass--A Race for Ellyria--Ellyrian
Villages palisaded--Outmarched by the Turks-- Ibrahim and his Men--Attempt at Reconciliation--Diplomacy--Peace
established--Arrive at Ellyria--Legge, the Chief of Ellyria--Presents to Ibrahim--Legge's Intemperance--Violent
Storm--No Supplies-- Formation of Skulls.

CHAPTER V.

LEAVE ELLYRIA.

We leave Ellyria--Brutality towards the Women--Order of March-- Bellaal--Drainage towards the
Sobat--Game at Wakkala--Delightful Scenery--Latooka Thieves--Stalking Antelopes--Chase after
Waterbuck-- Good Service of Rifle--The Turks' Salute--Treacherous Welcome-- Mahommed Her--Quarrelling
among the Traders--The Latooka Mutiny-- Settle the Ringleader--Stop the Mutiny--I pursue a
Fugitive, and interpose on his behalf--Held in some Estimation--Desertion of Men-- The Natives
of Latooka--Their probable Origin--Tribes hard to distinguish--Tarrangolle--Native Architecture--Exhumation
of the Dead --Coiffure of Natives--Hair Helmets of Latooka--Fighting Bracelets-- The Latooka
Women--The Chief's Introduction--"Moy" and his Ladies-- Bokke proposes to improve Mrs. Baker--Bokke
and Daughter--Extraction of the front Teeth--The Value of Wives--Cows of more value than Women
--Destruction of Mahommed Her's People--Death of my Deserters--My Prophecy realized--Apprehensive
of an Attack--The Turks insult the Women--Ill Conduct of the Turks--Well done, Bokke!--Results
of the Turks' Misconduct--Interview with Commoro--Awkward Position--The Latooka War Signal--Preparations
for Defence--We await the Attack-- Parley--Too "wide awake"--Camp at Tarrangolle--Scarcity
in view of Plenty--Wild Duck Shooting--The Crested Crane, &c.--Adda's Proposal-- Obtuseness
of Natives--Degraded State of Natives.

CHAPTER VI.

THE FUNERAL DANCE.

A Funeral Dance--Bari Interpreters--Commoro, the Lion--Conversation with Commoro--"Where will
the Spirit live?"--"Good and bad all die"-- Failure of the religious Argument--Further Conversation--The
Camel poisoned--Habits of the Camel--Camel's peculiar Constitution--The Hygeen, or riding Dromedary--Loss
of Camel a Misfortune--Dirty Donkeys

CHAPTER VII.

LATOOKA.

Herds of the Latookas and Game--Storm--Effects of Rain upon Natives-- Native Blacksmiths--Their
Tools--Elephants--Elephant Hunt--Tetel, my old Hunter--Charged by a herd of Elephants--Cowardly
Followers--Track the wounded Elephant--Nearly caught--Tetel distressed--Return to Camp --African
and Indian Elephants--Height of Elephants--Food of Elephants --African and Ceylon Elephants--Difference
in Formation of Brain-- Rifles and Bullets for heavy Game--Character of Country and its Sports
--The "Baby"--Method of killing Elephants--Elephant Pitfalls-- Circling them with Fire--Native
Hunting--The Bagara Hunters--Danger of Elephant Hunting

CHAPTER VIII.

IBRAHIM's RETURN.

The African Black--Comparison between Whites and Blacks--Varieties in Creation--The Negro--Character
of the Negro-Originated African Slave System--Indisposition to Work--Negro Slave Hunters--Ibrahimawa;
or, Sinbad the Sailor--Makkarika Cannibals--My daily Employments-- Quarrels with the Latookas--Parley
with Latooka Chiefs--The Latookas seize a Gun--Helplessness in an Advance--Hope to the South--Journey
to Obbo--Uncomfortable Night--Enter the Mountains--Beautiful Scenery --Arrive at Obbo--Natives
of Obbo--Butter Nuts and Fruits--Pottery and Utensils--Natural Features of Obbo--Katchiba,
Chief of Obbo-- Entertained with a Dance--Women of Obbo--Languages of Tribes-- Katchiba's Diplomacy--Katchiba
"always at Home"--Family Government-- The great Magician--Reconnaissance to the South--Mrs.
Baker's Dwelling --An Upset--Loss of Filfil--My Bivouac--Ceremony of Welcome at Farajoke--Elevated
Country at Farajoke--Stopped by the Asua--Return to Obbo--Gallantry of Katchiba--Katchiba determines
to ride--First Attempts at Horsemanship--Recover the lost Horse--Ceremony at parting with Katchiba--Return
to Latooka--Discovery of supposed Yams--Beware of Botanists--Baboons--The Maharif Antelope--The
Giraffe--Hunting Giraffes--Unsuccessful Hunt--Benighted--Regain the Party-- Bread-baking on
the March--Sickness; Small-pox--Wani, the Interpreter --First Clue to the Lake--Brown Men are
called White

CHAPTER IX.

THE TURKS ATTACK KAYALA.

The "Pleasant Robber" killed--Division of the Spoil--Discord among the Natives--The Life of
Women spared in War--Scarcity of Salt, among the Latookas--Another Cause of Alarm--The Turks
murder a Native--Country disturbed--Good Sport--Two Thieves--Ibrahimawa's Reminiscences of
England--Party recalled to Obbo--White Ants--Destructiveness of Birds --Cattle Stealers at
Night--A Thief shot--My Wife ill with Fever-- March to Obbo--Great Puff Adder--Poison-fangs
of Snakes--Violent Storm--Arrive again at Obbo--Hostility caused by the Turks--The M.D. attends
us--Death of "Mouse"--Marauding Expedition--Saat becomes scientific--Saat and Gaddum Her--Will
England suppress the Slave Trade?--Filthy Customs of the Natives--The Egyptian Scarabaeus--
Bacheeta, the Unyoro Slave--Intelligence of the Lake--Its probable Commercial Advantages--Commerce
with the Interior--Obbo the Clothing Frontier--Death of my last Camel--Excellent Species of
Gourd--A Morning Call in Obbo--Katchiba's Musical Accomplishments--Loss of remaining Donkey--Deceived
by the Turks--Fever--Symptoms--Dismal Prospect, "Coming Events," &c.

CHAPTER X.

LIFE AT OBBO.

Physician in General--Influence gained over the People--Katchiba is applied to for Rain--"Are
you a Rainmaker?"--Katchiba takes Counsel's Opinion--Successful Case--Night-watch for Elephants--Elephant
killed --Dimensions of the Elephant--Wild Boars--Start for the South--Mrs. Baker thrown from
her Ox--The Asua River--Stalking Mehedehet Antelope --A Prairie Fire--Tracking an Antelope--Turks'
Standard-bearer killed --Arrival at Shooa--The Neighbourhood of Shooa--Fruitfulness of Shooa
--Cultivation and Granaries--Absconding of Obbo Porters--"Wheels within Wheels"--Difficulty
in starting South--Departure from Shooa-- Fatiko Levee--Boundless Prairies--Fire the Prairies--Deceit
of the Guide--Arrive at the Victoria Nile--Arrive at Rionga's Country--Start for Karuma--The
Karuma Falls--Welcome by Kamrasi's People--Passage of the River forbidden--To await Reply of
Kamrasi--The Natives' Dread of Kamrasi--They hold a Conference--Resolve to cross the River
alone-- The Ferry of Atada--Reception by Keedja--I lull the Suspicions of the Natives--Appellations
of Speke and Grant--Freemasonry of Unyoro-- Native Curiosity--The Bark Cloth of Unyoro--Comparative
Civilization of Unyoros--Native Pottery--The Bottle Gourds used as Models--"Great Men never
in a Hurry to pay Visits"--Pronounced to be Speke's Brother-- The Escort cross the River--Neatness
of the Natives in packing--Native Manufactures--March parallel with the Victoria Nile--Severe
Illness of Mrs. Baker--March to the Capital--Kamrasi suspects Treachery--Arrive at last at
the Capital--Imprisoned on the Marsh--Expectation of an Attack--Kamrasi makes a State Visit--Conversation
with the King--His Reception of my Presents--Another Interview with Kamrasi--Exchange Blood
and become Friends--Avarice of the King--Permitted to leave our Fever-bed--Ibrahim and Party
return North--Sulkiness of Bacheeta-- Attempt to barter for Speke's Rifle--Rapacity of the Chiefs.

CHAPTER XI.

THE START FOR THE LAKE.

Despicable Conduct of the King--Pertinacity of Kamrasi--Kamrasi's Infamous Proposal--Resentment
of the King's Insolence--The King's Apology--Expectation of a Fight--Kamrasi's Satanic Escort--The
Rout at a Gun-shot--A disagreeable Escort--Passage of the Kafoor--Mrs. Baker receives a Sun-stroke--Dismissal
of the brutal Escort--Misery and Distress--Return to Consciousness, but afflicted with Brain-fever

CHAPTER XII.

RECOVERED.

The Sugarcane indigenous--Unyoro People clean Feeders--Close to the Lake--Discovery of the
Albert N'yanza--Gratitude to Providence-- Denominate it "The Albert N'yanza"--Fishing Tackle--The
Lake declared to be the Sea--Feast in honour of the Discovery--Survey of the Lake-- Geography
of the Lake--Countries bordering the Lake--The Great Basin of the Nile--Sources of the Nile--Affluents
of the Albert Lake--Our whole party Fever-stricken--Yearning for Home--Arrange Canoes for Lake
Voyage--Start from Vacovia--Voyage upon the Lake--Shore Encampment-- Deserted by the Boatmen--No
Pilot--Endeavour to civilize the Canoes-- Adapt a Scotch Plaid for a Sail--Natives volunteer
as Boatmen--Storm on the Lake--Nearly swamped--Land safely on Shore--Falls of the Kaiigiri
River--Shoot a Crocodile--Taste of Crocodile Flesh-- Discomforts of Lake Voyage--Elephants
in the Lake--Inhospitable Natives--Procure Supplies--The Lake changes its character--Arrival
at Magungo--Embouchure of the Somerset River--Fish and Fishing--The Baggera and Lepidosiren
Annecteus--Native Fishing Arrangements--Exit of the Nile from the Lake--Nile navigable from
Lake to Madi--The Victoria Nile at Magungo--Determination to settle Nile Question--Nobly seconded
by Mrs. Baker--Leave Magungo--Voyage up the Victoria Nile-- Stricken again with Fever--Guided
by Waterplants--Numerous Crocodiles --The Murchison Falls--Hippopotamus charges the Canoe--Narrow
Escape from Crocodiles--Arrival of Oxen, but not the Guide--Loss of Oxen from Fly-bite--Sickness
on the March--The Island of Patooan--Information about Ibrahim--Difference in the Level--Difference
in Observations-- Altitudes

CHAPTER XIII.

TREACHEROUS DESIGNS OF THE NATIVES.

Confined in the Country--Determine to proceed--Deserted by the Natives --Discovery of a "Tullaboon"
Granary--Misery at Shooa Moru--Hard Fare --Preparation for Death--Kamrasi's Tactics--The Bait
takes--We are carried to the King's Camp--Rejoin the Turks' Detachment--Their Welcome--Kamrasi
seeks my Alliance--Deception of Kamrasi--M'Gambi has impersonated the King--The real Kamrasi--Prefer
seeing Meat to a King --The begging Envoy--Carried to the Camp of Kamrasi--Introduction to
the real King--Description of Kamrasi--The Native Court

CHAPTER XIV.

AT HOME IN KISOONA.

System of Fattening--Native Preparations of Food--Native Manufactures --Knavery of Native Butter-dealers--Vapour
Bath for Fever--State Visit from the King--Mendicancy again--The King in love with a Tooth-comb--
Effect of concave Mirror--Attempts at Ancient History--Kamrasi's Request--Kamrasi affronted--Sudden
Invasion of the Country--Alarm and Cowardice of Kamrasi--The British Flag protects Unyoro--Diplomatic
Arrangement--Conference with Debono's Party--Settle authoritatively all Objections--Retreat
of the Invaders.

CHAPTER XV.

KAMRASI BEGS FOR THE BRITISH FLAG.

The pertinacious Beggar--Summary Justice for High Treason--Arrival of Ivory for the Turks--Frightful
Barbarities upon Captives--The Female Captives--Treacherous Murder of Sali--Disputes with Kamrasi--Advice
to Kamrasi--The Turks begin to bully--Eddrees refused Admittance at Court--Communicate with
Ibrahim--Drunkenness among the Unyoros-- Native Sorcerers--Implicit Belief in Sorcerers--Invasion
of the M'Was --Consulted by the King in the Extremity--Kamrasi will not Fight--An invigorating
little Difficulty--Mock Valour by Unyoros--Kamrasi's Retreat--We are Deserted--Prepare for
Retreat--Leave Kisoona--Arrive at Deang--No Water--Deserted again by the Porters--Richarn missing--
Richarn reported as killed--The M'Was' Drums beat--March to Foweera-- The Night Retreat--Lose
the Road--At a Loss for direct Route--Capture a Native--Recover the Route--Exhaustion of Mrs.
Baker--Arrive at Foweera--Well prepared--Refuse to assist Kamrasi--Richarn's Return-- Richarn's
Story--The King in Distress--Arrival of Ibrahim with Reinforcements--Receive Letters and Papers
from Home--Kamrasi "is himself again"--Invasion of the Langgo Country--The Whisky Distillery
--Kamrasi tries the Whisky--Butcheries by Kamrasi--Kamrasi orders the Murder of Kalloe--Attempt
to save Kalloe--Pursuit and Capture of Kalloe --I intercede on his behalf--Death of a Headman--Shot
by order of Kamrasi--The Warning--The Bodyguard

CHAPTER XVI.

KAMRASI'S ADIEU,

Begging to the last--We quit Kamrasi's Territory--March to Shooa-- Arrive at Shooa--The Lira
Tribe--Resemblance of Natives' and Lawyers' Wigs--Result of the Turks' Razzias--Loss of Cattle
by the Turks--The Fight with Werdella--Courage of Werdella--Werdella defeats the Turks-- Murder
of a Native--Runaway slaves recaptured--Brutality of the Turks --Little Abbai--The Children
of the Camp--Pleasant Time with the Children--Shoot a Crocodile--The Black Rhinoceros--The
Lira Head-dress--Native Use of Donkeys

CHAPTER XVII.

THE NATIVES IN MOURNING.

Results of the Ivory Campaign--Preparations for starting Homeward-- Part regretfully with the
Children--The Traveller's Tree--View of the Nile--Koshi and Madi--Gebel Kookoo--On Speke and
Grant's Route-- Changes in the Nile--The Asua River--Suspicious Movements of the Natives--Attacked
in the Pass--Night in a hostile Country--Camp surrounded by Natives--Poisoned Arrows shot into
Camp--Sight Belignan --Approach Gondokoro--Arrive at Gondokoro--Neither Letters nor Supplies--Disappointment.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE LATEST NEWS FROM KHARTOUM.

Intelligence from Khartoum--Retreat of the Slaves--Influence gained over Traders' People--Sail
from Gondokoro--The Nile cleared of its Mystery--The Victoria Source--Ptolemy's Theory--Rainfall--Affluents
of the White Nile--Action of the Abyssinian Rivers--Colonization impossible--Slavery the Curse
of Africa--Impotence of European Consuls --Impossibility of convicting a Trader--Central Africa
opened to Navigation--Tribes of Central Africa--Vestiges of a Pre-Adamite Creation--Geological
Formation--Hypothesis of Equatorial Lakes--Sir Roderick Murchison's Theories confirmed--Sir
Roderick Murchison's Address

CHAPTER XIX.

THE BLACK ANTELOPE.

Antelope shooting--Arrive at Junction of Bahr el Gazal--Arrive at the Nile Dam--Character of
the Obstruction--Passage through the Dam--The Plague breaks out--Saat smitten by the Plague--Entertained
by Osman Bey--Saat dies--Burial of Saat--Arrival at Khartoum--Albert Lake Reservoir of Nile--Destruction
by the Plague--A Darkness that might be felt--Horrible Slave Cargo--Meet with Mahommed Her--Mahommed
Her punished--Nearly wrecked--Stranded among Cataracts--Clear the Danger --Start from Berber
to Souakim--A Row in the Desert--Combat with the Arabs--"Bravo, Zeneb!"--Disarm the Arabs--Cross
the Mountains--First View of the Sea--Souakim--Arrival at Suez--Farewell to Africa-- Exertions
appreciated

    LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

    General Map of Country, Nile Basin
    Arms and Instruments of various Tribes
    Nuehr Natives coming to the Boats
    Joctian, Chief of the Nuehr Tribe
    Chief of Kytch and Daughter
    Starving boy of Kytch Tribe begging
    The Boys who have begged
    A Homestead of the Bari Tribe-The usual Attitudes of the Men
    Legge the Chief
    Commoro running to the Fight
    Bokke-Wife of Moy, Chief of Latooka
    Drake's Head
    Crimson-headed Spur-winged Goose
    The Latooka Funeral Dance
    Latooka Blacksmiths
    The last Charge
    Head-dress of Obbo (1) and Shoggo (2)
    Women of Obbo
    Katchiba's eldest Son
    Katchiba and his Hebe on a Journey
    Overhauling the Giraffes
    The Obbo War Dance
    Mehedehet Antelope
    Natives of Lira (1) and Madi (2) in the Camp at Shooa
    My Examination by the Chiefs on entering Unyoro-Resolved,
    that I am Speke's Brother
    The Start from the M'rooli for the Lake with Kamrasi's Satanic
    Escort
    The Storm on the Albert Lake
    The Baggera
    Lepidosiren Annecteus
    The Murchison Falls, about 120 ft. high from the Victoria Nile
    or Somerset River to the Level of the Albert Lake
    The Welcome on our Return to the Camp at Shooa
    Head of Black Rhinoceros
    The Chief of the Lira Tribe
    Skirmish with the Natives

INTRODUCTION.

The primary object of geographical exploration is the opening to general intercourse such portions
of the earth as may become serviceable to the human race. The explorer is the precursor of
the colonist; and the colonist is the human instrument by which the great work must be constructed--that
greatest and most difficult of all undertakings--the civilization of the world.

The progress of civilization depends upon geographical position. The surface of the earth presents
certain facilities and obstacles to general access; those points that are easily attainable
must always enjoy a superior civilization to those that are remote from association with the world.

We may thus assume that the advance of civilization is dependent upon facility of transport.
Countries naturally excluded from communication may, through the ingenuity of man, be rendered
accessible; the natural productions of those lands may be transported to the seacoast in exchange
for foreign commodities; and commerce, thus instituted, becomes the pioneer of civilization.

England, the great chief of the commercial world, possesses a power that enforces a grave responsibility.
She has the force to civilize. She is the natural colonizer of the world. In the short space
of three centuries, America, sprung from her loins, has become a giant offspring, a new era
in the history of the human race, a new birth whose future must be overwhelming. Of later date,
and still more rapid in development, Australia rises, a triumphant proof of England's power
to rescue wild lands from barrenness; to wrest from utter savagedom those mighty tracts of
the earth's surface wasted from the creation of the world,--a darkness to be enlightened by
English colonization. Before the advancing steps of civilization the savage inhabitants of
dreary wastes retreated: regions hitherto lain hidden, and counting as nothing in the world's
great total, have risen to take the lead in the world's great future.

Thus England's seed cast upon the earth's surface germinates upon soils destined to reproduce
her race. The energy and industry of the mother country become the natural instincts of her
descendants in localities adapted for their development; and wherever Nature has endowed a
land with agricultural capabilities, and favourable geographical position, slowly but surely
that land will become a centre of civilization.

True Christianity cannot exist apart from civilization; thus, the spread of Christianity must
depend upon the extension of civilization; and that extension depends upon commerce.

The philanthropist and the missionary will expend their noble energies in vain in struggling
against the obtuseness of savage hordes, until the first steps towards their gradual enlightenment
shall have been made by commerce. The savage must learn to WANT; he must learn to be ambitious;
and to covet more than the mere animal necessities of food and drink. This can alone be taught
by a communication with civilized beings: the sight of men well clothed will induce the naked
savage to covet clothing, and will create a WANT; the supply of this demand will be the first
step towards commerce. To obtain the supply, the savage must produce some article in return
as a medium of barter, some natural production of his country adapted to the trader's wants.
His wants will increase as his ideas expand by communication with Europeans: thus, his productions
must increase in due proportion, and he must become industrious; industry being the first grand
stride towards civilization.

The natural energy of all countries is influenced by climate; and civilization being dependent
upon industry, or energy, must accordingly vary in its degrees according to geographical position.
The natives of tropical countries do not progress: enervated by intense heat, they incline
rather to repose and amusement than to labour. Free from the rigour of winters, and the excitement
of changes in the seasons, the native character assumes the monotony of their country's temperature.
They have no natural difficulties to contend with,--no struggle with adverse storms and icy
winds and frost-bound soil; but an everlasting summer, and fertile ground producing with little
tillage, excite no enterprise; and the human mind, unexercised by difficulties, sinks into
languor and decay. There are a lack of industry, a want of intensity of character, a love of
ease and luxury, which leads to a devotion to sensuality,--to a plurality of wives, which lowers
the character and position of woman. Woman, reduced to that false position, ceases to exercise
her proper influence upon man; she becomes the mere slave of passion, and, instead of holding
her sphere as the emblem of civilization she becomes its barrier. The absence of real love
engendered by a plurality of wives, is an absolute bar to progress; and so long as polygamy
exists, an extension of civilization is impossible. In all tropical countries polygamy is the
prevailing evil: this is the greatest obstacle to Christianity. The Mahommedan religion, planned
carefully for Eastern habits, allowed a plurality of wives, and prospered. The savage can be
taught the existence of a Deity, and become a Mussulman; but to him the hateful law of fidelity
to one wife is a bar to Christianity. Thus, in tropical climates there will always be a slower
advance of civilization than in more temperate zones.

The highest civilization was originally confined to the small portion of the globe comprised
between Persia, Egypt, Greece, and Italy. In those countries was concentrated the world's earliest
history; and although changed in special importance, they preserve their geographical significance
to the present day.

The power and intelligence of man will have their highest development within certain latitudes,
and the natural passions and characters of races will be governed by locality and the temperature
of climate.

There are certain attractions in localities that induce first settlements of man; even as peculiar
conditions of country attract both birds and animals. The first want of man and beast is food:
thus fertile soil and abundant pasture, combined with good climate and water communication,
always ensure the settlement of man; while natural seed-bearing grasses, forests, and prairies
attract both birds and beasts. The earth offers special advantages in various positions to
both man and beast; and such localities are, with few exceptions, naturally inhabited. From
the earliest creation there have been spots so peculiarly favoured by nature, by geographical
position, climate, and fertility, that man has striven for their occupation, and they have
become scenes of contention for possession. Such countries have had a powerful influence in
the world's history, and such will be the great pulses of civilization,--the sources from which
in a future, however distant, will flow the civilization of the world. Egypt is the land whose
peculiar capabilities have thus attracted the desires of conquest, and with whom the world's
earliest history is intimately connected.

Egypt has been an extraordinary instance of the actual formation of a country by alluvial deposit;
it has been CREATED by a single river. The great Sahara, that frightful desert of interminable
scorching sand, stretching from the Red Sea to the Atlantic, is cleft by one solitary thread
of water. Ages before man could have existed in that inhospitable land, that thread of water
was at its silent work: through countless years it flooded and fell, depositing a rich legacy
of soil upon the barren sand until the delta was created; and man, at so remote a period that
we have no clue to an approximate date, occupied the fertile soil thus born of the river Nile,
and that corner of savage Africa, rescued from its barrenness, became Egypt, and took the first
rank in the earth's history.

For that extraordinary land the world has ever contended, and will yet contend.

From the Persian conquest to the present day, although the scene of continual strife, Egypt
has been an example of almost uninterrupted productiveness. Its geographical position afforded
peculiar advantages for commercial enterprise. Bounded on the east by the Red Sea, on the north
by the Mediterranean, while the fertilizing Nile afforded inland communication, Egypt became
the most prosperous and civilized country of the earth. Egypt was not only created by the Nile,
but the very existence of its inhabitants depended upon the annual inundation of that river:
thus all that related to the Nile was of vital importance to the people; it was the hand that
fed them.

Egypt depending so entirely upon the river, it was natural that the origin of those mysterious
waters should have absorbed the attention of thinking men. It was unlike all other rivers.
In July and August, when European streams were at their lowest in the summer heat, the Nile
was at the flood! In Egypt there was no rainfall--not even a drop of dew in those parched deserts
through which, for 860 miles of latitude, the glorious river flowed without a tributary. Licked
up by the burning sun, and gulped by the exhausting sand of Nubian deserts, supporting all
losses by evaporation and absorption, the noble flood shed its annual blessings upon Egypt.
An anomaly among rivers; flooding in the driest season; everlasting in sandy deserts; where
was its hidden origin? where were the sources of the Nile?

This was from the earliest period the great geographical question to be solved.

In the advanced stage of civilization of the present era, we look with regret at the possession
by the Moslem of the fairest portions of the world,--of countries so favoured by climate and
by geographical position, that, in the early days of the earth's history, they were the spots
most coveted; and that such favoured places should, through the Moslem rule, be barred from
the advancement that has attended lands less adapted by nature for development. There are no
countries of the earth so valuable, or that would occupy so important a position in the family
of nations, as Turkey in Europe, Asia Minor, and Egypt, under a civilized and Christian government.

As the great highway to India, Egypt is the most interesting country to the English. The extraordinary
fertility being due entirely to the Nile, I trust that I may have added my mite to the treasury
of scientific knowledge by completing the discovery of the sources of that wonderful river,
and thereby to have opened a way to the heart of Africa, which, though dark in our limited
perspective, may, at some future period, be the path to civilization.

I offer to the world my narrative of many years of hardships and difficulties, happily not
vainly spent in this great enterprise: should some un-ambitious spirits reflect, that the results
are hardly worth the sacrifice of the best years of life thus devoted to exile and suffering,
let them remember that "we are placed on earth for a certain period, to fulfil, according to
our several conditions and degrees of mind, those duties by which the earth's history is carried
on." (E. L. Bulwer's "Life, Literature, and Manners.")

THE ALBERT N'YANZA.

On arrival at Korosko, in Lat. 22 degrees 44 minutes, in twenty-six days from Cairo, we started
across the Nubian desert, thus cutting off the western bend of the Nile, and in seven days'
forced camel march we again reached the river Abou Hamed. The journey through that desert is
most fatiguing, as the march averages fifteen hours a day through a wilderness of scorching
sand and glowing basalt rocks. The simoom was in full force at that season (May), and the thermometer,
placed in the shade by the water skins, stood at 114 degrees Fahrenheit.

No drinkable water was procurable on the route; thus our supply was nearly expended upon reaching
the welcome Nile. After eight days' march on the margin of the river from Abou Hamed through
desert, but in view of the palm trees that bordered the river, we arrived at Berber, a considerable
town in lat. 17 degrees 58 minutes on the banks of the Nile.

Berber is eight days' camel march from Khartoum (at the junction of the White and Blue Niles,
in lat. 15 degrees 30 minutes), and is the regular caravan route between that town and Cairo.
Accordingly I left Berber on the 11th June, 1861, and arrived at the Atbara junction with the
Nile on the 13th.

There is no portion of the Nile so great in its volume as that part situated at the Atbara
junction. The river Atbara is about 450 yards in average width, and from twenty-five to thirty
feet deep during the rainy season. It brings down the entire drainage of Eastern Abyssinia,
receiving as affluents into its main stream the great rivers Taccazy (or Settite), in addition
to the Salaam and Angrab. The junction of the Atbara in lat. 17 degrees 37 minutes N. is thus,
in a direct line from Alexandria, about 840 geographical miles of latitude, and, including
the westerly bend of the Nile, its bed will be about eleven hundred miles in length from the
mouth of its last tributary, the Atbara, until it meets the sea. Thus, eleven hundred miles
of absorption and evaporation through sandy deserts and the delta must be sustained by the
river between the Atbara junction and the Mediterranean: accordingly there is an immense loss
of water; and the grandest volume of the Nile must be just below the Atbara junction.

It is not my intention in the present work to enter into the details of my first year's exploration
on the Abyssinian frontier; that being so extensive and so completely isolated from the grand
White Nile expedition, that an amalgamation of the two would create confusion. I shall therefore
reserve the exploration of the Abyssinian tributaries for a future publication, and confine
my present description of the Abyssinian rivers to a general outline of the Atbara and Blue
Nile, showing the origin of their floods and their effect upon the inundations in Lower Egypt.

I followed the banks of the Atbara to the junction of the Settite or Taccazy river; I then
followed the latter grand stream into the Abyssinian mountains in the Base country. From thence
I crossed over to the rivers Salaam and Angrab, at the foot of the magnificent range of mountains
from which they flow direct into the Atbara. Having explored those rivers, I passed through
an extensive and beautiful tract of country forming a portion of Abyssinia on the south bank
of the river Salaam; and again crossing the Atbara, I arrived at the frontier town of Gellabat,
known by Bruce as "Ras el Feel." Marching due west from that point I arrived at the river Rahad,
in about lat. 12 degrees 30 minutes; descending its banks I crossed over a narrow strip of
country to the west, arriving at the river Dinder, and following these streams to their junction
with the Blue Nile, I descended that grand river to Khartoum, having been exactly twelve months
from the day I had left Berber.

The whole of the above-mentioned rivers--i.e. the Atbara, Settite, Salaam, Angrab, Rahad, Dinder,
and Blue Nile--are the great drains of Abyssinia, all having a uniform course from southeast
to northwest, and meeting the main Nile in two mouths; by the Blue Nile at Khartoum, 15 degrees
30 minutes, and by the Atbara, in lat. 17 degrees 37 minutes. The Blue Nile during the dry
season is so reduced that there is not sufficient water for the small vessels engaged in transporting
produce from Sennaar to Khartoum; at that time the water is beautifully clear, and, reflecting
the cloudless sky, its colour has given it the well-known name of Bahr el Azrak, or Blue River.
No water is more delicious than that of the Blue Nile; in great contrast to that of the White
river, which is never clear, and has a disagreeable taste of vegetation. This difference in
the quality of the waters is a distinguishing characteristic of the two rivers: the one, the
Blue Nile, is a rapid mountain stream, rising and falling with great rapidity; the other is
of lake origin, flowing through vast marshes. The course of the Blue Nile is through fertile
soil; thus there is a trifling loss by absorption, and during the heavy rains a vast amount
of earthy matter of a red colour is contributed by its waters to the general fertilizing deposit
of the Nile in Lower Egypt.

The Atbara, although so important a river in the rainy season of Abyssinia, is perfectly dry
for several months during the year, and at the time I first saw it, June 13, 1861, it was a
mere sheet of glaring sand; in fact a portion of the desert through which it flowed. For upwards
of one hundred and fifty miles from its junction with the Nile, it is perfectly dry from the
beginning of March to June. At intervals of a few miles there are pools or ponds of water left
in the deep holes below the general average of the river's bed. In these pools, some of which
may be a mile in length, are congregated all the inhabitants of the river, who as the stream
disappears are forced to close quarters in these narrow asylums; thus, crocodiles, hippopotami,
fish, and large turtle are crowded in extraordinary numbers, until the commencement of the
rains in Abyssinia once more sets them at liberty by sending down a fresh volume to the river.
The rainy season commences in Abyssinia in the middle of May, but the country being parched
by the summer heat, the first rains are absorbed by the soil, and the torrents do not fill
until the middle of June.

From June to the middle of September the storms are terrific; every ravine becomes a raging
torrent; trees are rooted up by the mountain streams swollen above their banks, and the Atbara
becomes a vast river, bringing down with an overwhelming current the total drainage of four
large rivers--the Settite, Royan, Salaam, and Angrab--in addition to its own original volume.
Its waters are dense with soil washed from most fertile lands far from its point of junction
with the Nile; masses of bamboo and driftwood, together with large trees, and frequently the
dead bodies of elephants and buffaloes, are hurled along its muddy waters in wild confusion,
bringing a rich harvest to the Arabs on its banks, who are ever on the look-out for the river's
treasures of fuel and timber.

The Blue Nile and the Atbara receiving the entire drainage of Abyssinia, at the same time pour
their floods into the main Nile in the middle of June. At that season the White Nile is at
a considerable level, although not at its HIGHEST; and the sudden rush of water descending
from Abyssinia into the main channel, already at a fair level from the White Nile, causes the
annual inundation in Lower Egypt.

During the year that I passed in the northern portion of Abyssinia and its frontiers, the rains
continued with great violence for three months, the last shower falling on the 16th September,
from which date there was neither dew nor rain until the following May. The great rivers expended,
and the mountain torrents dried up; the Atbara disappeared, and once more became a sheet of
glaring sand. The rivers Settite, Salaam, and Angrab, although much reduced, are nevertheless
perennial streams, flowing into the Atbara from the lofty Abyssinian mountains; but the parched,
sandy bed of the latter river absorbs the entire supply, nor does one drop of water reach the
Nile from the Atbara during the dry season. The wonderful absorption by the sand of that river
is an illustration of the impotence of the Blue Nile to contend unaided with the Nubian deserts,
which, were it not for the steady volume of the White Nile, would drink every drop of water
before the river could pass the twenty-fifth degree of latitude.

The principal affluents of the Blue Nile are the Rahad and Dinder, flowing, like all others,
from Abyssinia. The Rahad is entirely dry during the dry season, and the Dinder is reduced
to a succession of deep pools, divided by sandbanks, the bed of the river being exposed. These
pools are the resort of numerous hippopotami and the natural inhabitants of the river.

Having completed the exploration of the various affluents to the Nile from Abyssinia, passing
through the Base country and the portion of Abyssinia occupied by Mek Nimmur, I arrived at
Khartoum, the capital of the Soudan provinces, on the 11th June, 1862.

Khartoum is situated in lat. 15 degrees 29 minutes, on a point of land forming the angle between
the White and Blue Niles at their junction. A more miserable, filthy, and unhealthy spot can
hardly be imagined. Far as the eye can reach, upon all sides, is a sandy desert. The town,
chiefly composed of huts of unburnt brick, extends over a flat hardly above the level of the
river at high water, and is occasionally flooded. Although containing about 30,000 inhabitants,
and densely crowded, there are neither drains nor cesspools: the streets are redolent with
inconceivable nuisances; should animals die, they remain where they fall, to create pestilence
and disgust. There are, nevertheless, a few respectable houses, occupied by the traders of
the country, a small proportion of whom are Italians, French, and Germans, the European population
numbering about thirty. Greeks, Syrians, Copts, Armenians, Turks, Arabs, and Egyptians, form
the motley inhabitants of Khartoum.

There are consuls for France, Austria, and America, and with much pleasure I acknowledge many
kind attentions, and assistance received from the two former, M. Thibaut and Herr Hansall.

Khartoum is the seat of government, the Soudan provinces being under the control of a Governor-general,
with despotic power. In 1861, there were about six thousand troops quartered in the town; a
portion of these were Egyptians; other regiments were composed of blacks from Kordofan, and
from the White and Blue Niles, with one regiment of Arnouts, and a battery of artillery. These
troops are the curse of the country: as in the case of most Turkish and Egyptian officials,
the receipt of pay is most irregular, and accordingly the soldiers are under loose discipline.
Foraging and plunder is the business of the Egyptian soldier, and the miserable natives must
submit to insult and ill-treatment at the will of the brutes who pillage them ad libitum.

In 1862, Moosa Pasha was the Governor-general of the Soudan. This man was a rather exaggerated
specimen of Turkish authorities in general, combining the worst of Oriental failings with the
brutality of a wild animal. During his administration the Soudan became utterly ruined; governed
by military force, the revenue was unequal to the expenditure, and fresh taxes were levied
upon the inhabitants to an extent that paralyzed the entire country. The Turk never improves.
There is an Arab proverb that "the grass never grows in the footprint of a Turk," and nothing
can be more aptly expressive of the character of the nation than this simple adage. Misgovernment,
monopoly, extortion, and oppression, are the certain accompaniments of Turkish administration.
At a great distance from all civilization, and separated from Lower Egypt by the Nubian deserts,
Khartoum affords a wide field for the development of Egyptian official character. Every official
plunders; the Governor-general extorts from all sides; he fills his private pockets by throwing
every conceivable obstacle in the way of progress, and embarrasses every commercial movement
in order to extort bribes from individuals. Following the general rule of his predecessors,
a new governor upon arrival exhibits a spasmodic energy. Attended by cavasses and soldiers,
he rides through every street of Khartoum, abusing the underlings for past neglect, ordering
the streets to be swept, and the town to be thoroughly cleansed; he visits the marketplace,
examines the quality of the bread at the bakers' stalls, and the meat at the butchers'. He
tests the accuracy of the weights and scales; fines and imprisons the impostors, and institutes
a complete reform, concluding his sanitary and philanthropic arrangements by the imposition
of some local taxes.

The town is comparatively sweet; the bread is of fair weight and size, and the new governor,
like a new broom, has swept all clean. A few weeks glide away, and the nose again recalls the
savory old times when streets were never swept, and filth once more reigns paramount. The town
relapses into its former state, again the false weights usurp the place of honest measures,
and the only permanent and visible sign of the new administration is the local tax.

From the highest to the lowest official, dishonesty and deceit are the rule--and each robs
in proportion to his grade in the Government employ--the onus of extortion falling upon the
natives; thus, exorbitant taxes are levied upon the agriculturists, and the industry of the
inhabitants is disheartened by oppression. The taxes are collected by the soldiery, who naturally
extort by violence an excess of the actual impost; accordingly the Arabs limit their cultivation
to their bare necessities, fearing that a productive farm would entail an extortionate demand.
The heaviest and most unjust tax is that upon the "sageer," or water wheel, by which the farmer
irrigates his otherwise barren soil.

The erection of the sageer is the first step necessary to cultivation. On the borders of the
river there is much land available for agriculture; but from an almost total want of rain the
ground must be constantly irrigated by artificial means. No sooner does an enterprising fellow
erect a water wheel, than he is taxed, not only for his wheel, but he brings upon himself a
perfect curse, as the soldiers employed for the collection of taxes fasten upon his garden,
and insist upon a variety of extras in the shape of butter, corn, vegetables, sheep, &c. for
themselves, which almost ruin the proprietor. Any government but that of Egypt and Turkey would
offer a bonus for the erection of irrigating machinery that would give a stimulus to cultivation,
and multiply the produce of the country; but the only rule without an exception is that of
Turkish extortion. I have never met with any Turkish official who would take the slightest
interest in plans for the improvement of the country, unless he discovered a means of filling
his private purse. Thus in a country where Nature has been hard in her measure dealt to the
inhabitants, they are still more reduced by oppression. The Arabs fly from their villages on
the approach of the brutal tax-gatherers, driving their flocks and herds with them to distant
countries, and leaving their standing crops to the mercy of the soldiery. No one can conceive
the suffering of the country.

But business only commenced. The negro covets cattle, and the trader has now captured perhaps
2,000 head. They are to be had for ivory, and shortly the tusks appear. Ivory is daily brought
into camp in exchange for cattle, a tusk for a cow, according to size--a profitable business,
as the cows have cost nothing. The trade proves brisk; but still there remain some little customs
to be observed--some slight formalities, well understood by the White Nile trade. The slaves
and two-thirds of the captured cattle belong to the trader, but his men claim as their perquisite
one-third of the stolen animals. These having been divided, the slaves are put up to public
auction among the men, who purchase such as they require; the amount being entered on the papers
(serki) of the purchasers, to be reckoned against their wages. To avoid the exposure, should
the document fall into the hands of the Government or European consuls, the amount is not entered
as for the purchase of a slave, but is divided for fictitious supplies--thus, should a slave
be purchased for 1,000 piastres, that amount would appear on the document somewhat as follows:

    Soap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 Piastres.
    Tarboash(cap) . . . . . . . . . 100
    Araki . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500
    Shoes . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200
    Cotton Cloth . . . . . . . . .  150
    Total                         1,000

The slaves sold to the men are constantly being changed and resold among themselves; but should
the relatives of the kidnapped women and children wish to ransom them, the trader takes them
from his men, cancels the amount of purchase, and restores them to their relations for a certain
number of elephants' tusks, as may be agreed upon. Should any slave attempt to escape, she
is punished either by brutal flogging, or shot or hanged, as a warning to others.

The boats are accordingly packed with a human cargo, and a portion of the trader's men accompany
them to the Soudan, while the remainder of the party form a camp or settlement in the country
they have adopted, and industriously plunder, massacre, and enslave, until their master's return
with the boats from Khartoum in the following season, by which time they are supposed to have
a cargo of slaves and ivory ready for shipment. The business thus thoroughly established, the
slaves are landed at various points within a few days' journey of Khartoum, at which places
are agents, or purchasers; waiting to receive them with dollars prepared for cash payments.
The purchasers and dealers are, for the most part, Arabs. The slaves are then marched across
the country to different places; many to Sennaar, where they are sold to other dealers, who
sell them to the Arabs and to the Turks. Others are taken immense distances to ports on the
Red Sea, Souakim, and Masowa, there to be shipped for Arabia and Persia. Many are sent to Cairo,
and in fact they are disseminated throughout the slave-dealing East, the White Nile being the
great nursery for the supply.

Foreseeing many difficulties, I had been supplied, before leaving Egypt, with a firman from
H. E. Said Pasha the Viceroy, by the request of H. B. M. agent, Sir R. Colquhoun; but this
document was ignored by the Governor-general of the Soudan, Moosa Pasha, under the miserable
prevarication that the firman was for the Pasha's dominions and for the Nile; whereas the White
Nile was not accepted as the Nile, but was known as the White River. I was thus refused boats,
and in fact all assistance.

The preparations for such a voyage are no trifles. I required forty-five armed men as escort,
forty men as sailors, which, with servants, &c., raised my party to ninety-six. The voyage
to Gondokoro, the navigable limit of the Nile, was reported to be from forty-five to fifty
days from Khartoum, but provisions were necessary for four months, as the boatmen would return
to Khartoum with the vessels, after landing me and my party. In the hope of meeting Speke and
Grant's party, I loaded the boats with an extra quantity of corn, making a total of a hundred
urdeps (rather exceeding 400 bushels). I had arranged the boats to carry twenty-one donkeys,
four camels, and four horses; which I hoped would render me independent of porters, the want
of transport being the great difficulty. The saddles, packs, and pads were all made under my
own superintendence; nor was the slightest trifle neglected in the necessary arrangements for
success. In all the detail, I was much assisted by a most excellent man whom I had engaged
to accompany me as my head man, a German carpenter, Johann Schmidt. I had formerly met him
hunting on the banks of the Settite river, in the Base country, where he was purchasing living
animals from the Arabs, for a contractor to a menagerie in Europe; he was an excellent sportsman,
and an energetic and courageous fellow; perfectly sober and honest. Alas! "the spirit was willing,
but the flesh was weak," and a hollow cough, and emaciation, attended with hurried respiration,
suggested disease of the lungs. Day after day he faded gradually, and I endeavoured to persuade
him not to venture upon such a perilous journey as that before me: nothing would persuade him
that he was in danger, and he had an idea that the climate of Khartoum was more injurious than
the White Nile, and that the voyage would improve his health. Full of good feeling, and a wish
to please, he persisted in working and perfecting the various arrangements, when he should
have been saving his strength for a severer trial.

Meanwhile, my preparations progressed. I had clothed my men all in uniform, and had armed them
with double-barrelled guns and rifles. I had explained to them thoroughly the object of my
journey, and that implicit obedience would be enforced, so long as they were in my service;
that no plunder would be permitted, and that their names were to be registered at the public
Divan before they started. They promised fidelity and devotion, but a greater set of scoundrels
in physiognomy I never encountered. Each man received five months' wages in advance, and I
gave them an entertainment, with abundance to eat and drink, to enable them to start in good humor.

We were just ready to start; the supplies were all on board, the donkeys and horses were shipped,
when an officer arrived from the Divan, to demand from me the poll tax that Moosa Pasha, the
Governor-general, had recently levied upon the inhabitants; and to inform me, that in the event
of my refusing to pay the said tax for each of my men, amounting to one month's wages per head,
he should detain my boats. I ordered my captain to hoist the British flag upon each of the
three boats, and sent my compliments to the Government official, telling him that I was neither
a Turkish subject nor a trader, but an English explorer; that I was not responsible for the
tax, and that if any Turkish official should board my boat, under the British flag, I should
take the liberty of throwing him overboard. This announcement appeared so practical, that the
official hurriedly departed, while I marched my men on board, and ordered the boatmen to get
ready to start. Just at that moment, a Government vessel, by the merest chance, came swiftly
down the river under sail, and in the clumsiest manner crashed right into us. The oars being
lashed in their places on my boat, ready to start, were broken to pieces by the other vessel,
which, fouling another of my boats just below, became fixed. The reis, or captain of the Government
boat that had caused the mischief, far from apologizing, commenced the foulest abuse; and refused
to give oars in exchange for those he had destroyed. To start was impossible without oars,
and an angry altercation being carried on between my men and the Government boat, it was necessary
to come to closer quarters. The reis of the Government boat was a gigantic black, a Tokrouri
(native of Darfur), who, confident in his strength, challenged any one to come on board, nor
did any of my fellows respond to the invitation. The insolence of Turkish Government officials
is beyond description--my oars were smashed, and this insult was the reparation; so, stepping
quickly on board, and brushing a few fellows on one side, I was obliged to come to a physical
explanation with the captain, which terminated in a delivery of the oars. The bank of the river
was thronged with people, many were mere idlers attracted by the bustle of the start, and others,
the friends and relatives of my people, who had come to say a last good-bye, with many women,
to raise the Arab cry of parting. Among others, was a tall, debauched-looking fellow, excessively
drunk and noisy, who, quarrelling with a woman who attempted to restrain him, insisted upon
addressing a little boy named Osman, declaring that he should not accompany me unless he gave
him a dollar to get some drink. Osman was a sharp Arab boy of twelve years old, whom I had
engaged as one of the tent servants, and the drunken Arab was his father, who wished to extort
some cash from his son before he parted; but the boy Osman showed his filial affection in a
most touching manner, by running into the cabin, and fetching a powerful hippopotamus whip,
with which he requested me to have his father thrashed, or "he would never be gone." Without
indulging this amiable boy's desire, we shoved off; the three vessels rowed into the middle
of the river, and hoisted sail; a fair wind, and strong current, moved us rapidly down the
stream; the English flags fluttered gaily on the masts, and amidst the shouting of farewells,
and the rattling of musketry, we started for the sources of the Nile. On passing the steamer
belonging to the Dutch ladies, Madame van Capellan, and her charming daughter, Mademoiselle
Tinne, we saluted them with a volley, and kept up a mutual waving of handkerchiefs until out
of view; little did we think that we should never meet those kind faces again, and that so
dreadful a fate would envelope almost the entire party. [The entire party died of fever on
the White Nile,  excepting Mademoiselle Tinne. The victims to the fatal climate of Central
Africa were Madame la Baronne van Capellan, her sister, two Dutch maidservants, Dr. Steudner,
and Signor Contarini.]

It was the 18th December, 1862, Thursday, one of the most lucky days for a start, according
to Arab superstition. In a few minutes we reached the acute angle round which we had to turn
sharply into the White Nile at its junction with the Blue. It was blowing hard, and in tacking
round the point one of the noggurs carried away her yard, which fell upon deck and snapped
in half, fortunately without injuring either men or donkeys. The yard being about a hundred
feet in length, was a complicated affair to splice; thus a delay took place in the act of starting
which was looked upon as a bad omen by my superstitious followers. The voyage up the White
Nile I now extract verbatim from my journal.

Friday, 19th Dec.--At daybreak took down the mast and unshipped all the rigging; hard at work
splicing the yard. The men of course wished to visit their friends at Khartoum. Gave strict
orders that no man should leave the boats. One of the horsekeepers absconded before daybreak;
sent after him. The junction of the two Niles is a vast flat as far as the eye can reach, the
White Nile being about two miles broad some distance above the point. Saati, my vakeel (headman),
is on board one noggur as chief; Johann on board the other, while I being on the diahbiah I
trust all the animals will be well cared for. I am very fearful of Johann's state of health:
the poor fellow is mere skin and bone, and I am afraid his lungs are affected; he has fever
again today; I have sent him quinine and wine, &c.

20th Dec.--The whole of yesterday employed in splicing yard, repairing mast, and re-rigging.
At 8.30 A.M. we got away with a spanking breeze. The diahbiah horridly leaky. The "tree," or
rendezvous for all boats when leaving for the White Nile voyage, consists of three large mimosas
about four miles from the point of junction. The Nile at this spot about two miles wide--dead
flat banks--mimosas on west bank. My two cabin boys are very useful, and Osman's ringing laugh
and constant impertinence to the crew and soldiers keep the boat alive; he is a capital boy,
a perfect gamin, and being a tailor by trade he is very useful: this accounts for his father
wishing to detain him. The horses and donkeys very snug on board. At 1 p.m. passed Gebel Ouli,
a small hill on south bank--course S.W. 1/2 S. At 8.30 p.m. reached Cetene, a village of mixed
Arabs on the east bank--anchored.

21st Dec.--All day busy clearing decks, caulking ship, and making room for the camels on the
noggurs, as this is the village to which I had previously sent two men to select camels and
to have them in readiness for my arrival. The men have been selecting sweethearts instead;
thus I must wait here tomorrow, that being the "Soog" or market day, when I shall purchase
my camels and milch goats. The banks of the river very uninteresting--flat, desert, and mimosa
bush. The soil is not so rich as on the banks of the Blue Nile--the dhurra (grain) is small.
The Nile is quite two miles wide up to this point, and the high-water mark is not more than
five feet above the present level. The banks shelve gradually like the sands at low tide in
England, and quite unlike the perpendicular banks of the Blue Nile. Busy at gunsmith's work.
The nights and mornings are now cold, from 60 degrees to 62 degrees F. Johann makes me very
anxious: I much fear he cannot last long, unless some sudden change for the better takes place.

22d Dec.--Selected two fine camels and shipped them in slings with some difficulty. Bought
four oxen at nine herias each (l5s.); the men delighted at the work of slaughtering, and jerking
the meat for the voyage. Bought four milch goats at 9 ps. each, and laid in a large stock of
dhurra straw for the animals. Got all my men on board and sailed at 4.30 p.m., course due west;
variation allowed for. I have already reduced my men from wolves to lambs, and I should like
to see the outrageous acts of mutiny which are the scapegoats of the traders for laying their
atrocities upon the men's shoulders. I cannot agree with some writers in believing that personal
strength is unnecessary to a traveller. In these savage countries it adds materially to the
success of an expedition, provided that it be combined with kindness of manner, justice, and
unflinching determination. Nothing impresses savages so forcibly as the power to punish and
reward. I am not sure that this theory is applicable to savages exclusively. Arrived at Wat
Shely at 9 P.M. 23d Dec.--Poor Johann very ill. Bought two camels, and shipped them all right:
the market at this miserable village is as poor as that at Getene. The river is about a mile
and a half wide, fringed with mimosas; country dead flat; soil very sandy; much cultivation
near the village, but the dhurra of poor quality. Saw many hippopotami in the river. I much
regret that I allowed Johann to accompany me from Khartoum; I feel convinced he can never rally
from his present condition.

24th Dec.--Sailed yesterday at 4.5 P.M., course south. This morning we are off the Bagara country
on the west bank. Dead flats of mimosas, many of the trees growing in the water; the river
generally shallow, and many snags or dead stumps of trees. I have been fortunate with my men,
only one being drunk on leaving Wat Shely; him we carried forcibly on board. Passed the island
of Hassaniah at 2.20 P.M.; the usual flats covered with mimosas. The high-water mark upon the
stems of these trees is three feet above the present level of the river; thus an immense extent
of country must be flooded during the wet season, as there are no banks to the river. The water
will retire in about two months, when the neighbourhood of the river will be thronged with
natives and their flocks. All the natives of these parts are Arabs; the Bagara tribe on the
west bank. At Wat Shely some of the latter came on board to offer their services as slave-hunters,
this open offer confirming the general custom of all vessels trading upon the White Nile.

25th Dec.--The Tokroori boy, Saat, is very amiable in calling all the servants daily to eat
together the residue from our table; but he being so far civilized, is armed with a huge spoon,
and having a mouth like a crocodile, he obtains a fearful advantage over the rest of the party,
who eat the soup by dipping kisras (pancakes) into it with their fingers. Meanwhile Saat sits
among his invited guests, and works away with his spoon like a sageer (water-wheel), and gets
an unwarrantable start, the soup disappearing like water in the desert. A dead calm the greater
portion of the day; the river fringed with mimosa forest. These trees are the Soont (Acacia
Arabica), which produce an excellent tannin: the fruit, "garra," is used for that purpose,
and produces a rich brown dye: all my clothes and the uniforms of my men I dyed at Khartoum
with this "garra." The trees are about eighteen inches in diameter and thirty-five feet high;
being in full foliage, their appearance from a distance is good, but on a closer approach the
forest proves to be a desolate swamp, completely overflowed; a mass of fallen dead trees protruding
from the stagnant waters, a solitary crane perched here and there upon the rotten boughs; floating
water-plants massed together, and forming green swimming islands, hitched generally among the
sunken trunks and branches; sometimes slowly descending with the sluggish stream, bearing,
spectre-like, storks thus voyaging on nature's rafts from lands unknown. It is a fever-stricken
wilderness--the current not exceeding a quarter of a mile per hour--the water coloured like
an English horse-pond; a heaven for mosquitoes and a damp hell for man. Fortunately, this being
the cold season, the winged plagues are absent. The country beyond the inundated mimosa woods
is of the usual sandy character, with thorny Kittur bush. Saw a few antelopes. Stopped at a
horrible swamp to collect firewood. Anchored at night in a dead calm, well out in the river
to escape malaria from the swamped forest. This is a precaution that the men would neglect,
and my expedition might suffer in consequence. Christmas Day!

26th Dec.--Good breeze at about 3 A.M.; made sail. I have never seen a fog in this part of
Africa; although the neighbourhood of the river is swampy, the air is clear both in the morning
and evening. Floating islands of water-plants are now very numerous. There is a plant something
like a small cabbage (Pistia Stratiotes, L.), which floats alone until it meets a comrade;
these unite, and recruiting as they float onward, they eventually form masses of many thousands,
entangling with other species of water-plants and floating wood, until they at length form
floating islands. Saw many hippopotami; the small hill in the Dinka country seen from the masthead
at 9.15 A.M.; breeze light, but steady; the banks of the river, high grass and mimosas, but
not forest as formerly. Water lilies in full bloom, white, but larger than the European variety.
In the evening the crew and soldiers singing and drumming.

27th Dec.--Blowing hard all night. Passed the Dinka hill at 3.30 A.M. Obliged to take in sail,
as it buried the head of the vessel and we shipped much water. Staggering along under bare
poles at about five miles an hour. The true banks of the river are about five hundred yards
distant from the actual stream, this space being a mass of floating water-plants, decayed vegetable
matter, and a high reedy grass much resembling sugarcanes; the latter excellent food for my
animals. Many very interesting water-plants and large quantities of Ambatch wood (Anemone mirabilis)--this
wood, of less specific gravity than cork, is generally used for rafts; at this season it is
in full bloom, its bright yellow blossoms enlivening the dismal swamps. Secured very fine specimens
of a variety of helix from the floating islands. In this spot the river is from 1500 yards
to a mile wide; the country, flat and uninteresting, being the usual scattered thorn bushes
and arid plains, the only actual timber being confined to the borders of the river. Course,
always south with few turns. My sponging-bath makes a good pinnace for going ashore from the
vessel. At 4.20 P.M. one of the noggurs carried away her yard--the same boat that met with
the accident at our departure; hove to, and closed with the bank for repairs. Here is an affair
of delay; worked with my own hands until 9 p.m.; spliced the yard, bound it with rhinoceros
thongs, and secured the whole splice with raw bull's hide. Posted sentries--two on each boat,
and two on shore.

28th Dec.--At work at break of day. Completed the repair of yard, which is disgracefully faulty.
Re-rigged the mast. Poor Johann will die, I much fear. His constitution appears to be quite
broken up; he has become deaf, and there is every symptom of decay. I have done all I can for
him, but his voyage in this life is nearly over. Ship in order, and all sailed together at
2:15 p.m. Strong north wind. Two vessels from Khartoum passed us while repairing damages. I
rearranged the donkeys, dividing them into stalls containing three each, as they were such
donkeys that they crowded each other unnecessarily. Caught a curious fish (Tetrodon physa of
Geof.), that distends itself with air like a bladder; colour black, and yellow stripes; lungs;
apertures under the fins, which open and shut by their movement, their motion being a semi-revolution.
This fish is a close link between fish and turtle; the head is precisely that of the latter,
having no teeth, but cutting jaws of hard bone of immense power. Many minutes after the head
had been severed from the body, the jaws nipped with fury anything that was inserted in the
mouth, ripping through thin twigs and thick straw like a pair of shears. The skin of the belly
is white, and is armed with prickles. The skin is wonderfully tough. I accordingly cut it into
a long thong, and bound up the stock of a rifle that had been split from the recoil of heavy
charges of powder. The flesh was strong of musk, and uneatable. There is nothing so good as
fish skin--or that of the iguana, or of the crocodile--for lashing broken gun-stocks. Isinglass,
when taken fresh from the fish and bound round a broken stock like a plaster, will become as
strong as metal when dry. Country as usual-- flat and thorny bush. A heavy swell creates a
curious effect in the undulations of the green rafts upon the water. Dinka country on east
bank; Shillook on the west; course south; all Arab tribes are left behind, and we are now thoroughly
among the negroes.

29th Dec.--At midnight the river made a bend westward, which continued for about fifteen miles.
The wind being adverse, at 5 A.M. we found ourselves fast in the grass and floating vegetation
on the lee side. Two hours' hard work at two ropes, alternately, fastened to the high grass
ahead of the boat and hauled upon from the deck, warped us round the bend of the river, which
turning due south, we again ran before a favourable gale for two hours; all the boats well
together. The east bank of the river is not discernible--a vast expanse of high reeds stretching
as far as the eye can reach; course P.M. W.S.W. At 4 P.M. the "Clumsy," as I have named one
of our noggurs, suddenly carried away her mast close by the board, the huge yard and rigging
falling overboard with the wreck, severely hurting two men and breaking one of their guns.
Hove to by an island on the Shillook side, towed the wreck ashore, and assembled all the boats.
Fortunately there is timber at hand; thus I cut down a tree for a mast and got all ready for
commencing repairs tomorrow. Poor Johann is, as I had feared, dying; he bleeds from the lungs,
and is in the last stage of exhaustion. Posted six sentries.

30th Dec.--Johann is in a flying state, but sensible; all his hopes, poor fellow, of saving
money in my service and returning to Bavaria are past. I sat by his bed for some hours; there
was not a ray of hope; he could speak with difficulty, and the flies walked across his glazed
eyeballs without his knowledge. Gently bathing his face and hands, I asked him if I could deliver
any message to his relatives. He faintly uttered, "I am prepared to die; I have neither parents
nor relations; but there is one--she--" he faltered. He could not finish his sentence, but
his dying thoughts were with one he loved; far, far away from this wild and miserable land,
his spirit was transported to his native village, and to the object that made life dear to
him. Did not a shudder pass over her, a chill warning at that sad moment when all was passing
away? I pressed his cold hand, and asked her name. Gathering his remaining strength he murmured,
"Krombach" [Krombach was merely the name of his native village in Bavaria.] . . . "Es bleibt
nur zu sterben." "Ich bin sehr dankbar." These were the last words he spoke, "I am very grateful."
I gazed sorrowfully at his attenuated figure, and at the now powerless hand that had laid low
many an elephant and lion, in its day of strength; and the cold sweat of death lay thick upon
his forehead. Although the pulse was not yet still, Johann was gone.

31st Dec.--Johann died. I made a huge cross with my own hands from the trunk of a tamarind
tree, and by moonlight we laid him in his grave in this lonely spot.

   "No useless coffin inclosed his breast,
    Nor in sheet nor in shroud we wound him;
    But he lay like a pilgrim taking his rest,
    With his mantle drawn around him."

This is a mournful commencement of the voyage. Poor fellow, I did all I could for him although
that was but little; and hands far more tender than mine ministered to his last necessities.
This sad event closes the year 1862. Made sail at 8.30 p.m., the repairs of ship being completed.

1863, Jan. 1st, 2 o'clock a.m.--Melancholy thoughts preventing sleep, I have watched the arrival
of the new year. Thank God for His blessings during the past, and may He guide us through the
untrodden path before us! We arrived at the village of Mahomed Her in the Shillook country.
This man is a native of Dongola, who, having become a White Nile adventurer, established himself
among the Shillook tribe with a band of ruffians, and is the arch-slaver of the Nile. The country,
as usual, a dead flat: many Shillook villages on west bank all deserted, owing to Mahomed Her's
plundering. This fellow now assumes a right of territory, and offers to pay tribute to the
Egyptian Government, thus throwing a sop to Cerberus to prevent intervention. Course S.W. The
river in clear water about seven hundred yards wide, but sedge on the east bank for a couple
of miles in width.

2d Jan.--The "Clumsy" lagging, come to grief again, having once more sprung her rotten yard.
Fine breeze, but obliged to wait upon this wretched boat--the usual flat uninteresting marshes:
Shillook villages in great numbers on the terra firma to the west. Verily it is a pleasant
voyage; disgusting naked savages, everlasting marshes teeming with mosquitoes, and the entire
country devoid of anything of either common interest or beauty. Course west the whole day;
saw giraffes and one ostrich on the east bank. On the west bank there is a regular line of
villages throughout the day's voyage within half a mile of each other; the country very thickly
populated. The huts are of mud, thatched, having a very small entrance--they resemble button
mushrooms. The Shillooks are wealthy, immense herds of cattle swarm throughout their country.
The natives navigate the river in two kinds of canoes-one of which is a curious combination
of raft and canoe formed of the Ambatch wood, which is so light, that the whole affair is portable.
The Ambatch (Anemone mirabilis) is seldom larger than a man's waist, and as it tapers naturally
to a point, the canoe rafts are quickly formed by lashing the branches parallel to each other,
and tying the narrow ends together.

3d Jan.--The "Clumsy's" yard having been lashed with rhinoceros' hide, fortunately holds together,
although sprung. Stopped this morning on the east bank, and gathered a supply of wood. On the
west bank Shillook villages as yesterday during the day's voyage, all within half a mile of
each other; one village situated among a thick grove of the dolape palms close to the river.
The natives, afraid of our boats, decamped, likewise the fishermen, who were harpooning fish
from small fishing stations among the reeds.

The country, as usual, dead flat, and very marshy on the east bank, upon which side I see no
signs of habitations. Course this morning south. Arrived at the river Sobat junction at 12.40
P.M., and anchored about half a mile within that river at a spot where the Turks had formerly
constructed a camp. Not a tree to be seen; but dead flats of prairie and marsh as far as the
eye can reach. The Sobat is not more than a hundred and twenty yards in breadth.

I measured the stream by a floating gourd, which travelled 130 yards in 112 seconds, equal
to about two miles and a half an hour. The quality of the water is very superior to that of
the White Nile--this would suggest that it is of mountain origin. Upward course of Sobat south,
25 degrees east. Upward course of the White Nile west, 2 degrees north from the Sobat junction.

4th Jan.--By observation of sun's meridian altitude, I make the latitude of the Sobat junction
9 degrees 21 minutes 14 seconds. Busy fishing the yard of the "Clumsy," and mending sails.
The camels and donkeys all well--plenty of fine grass--made a good stock of hay. My reis and
boatmen tell me that the Sobat, within a few days' sail of the junction, divides into seven
branches, all shallow and with a rapid current. The banks are flat, and the river is now bank-full.
Although the water is perfectly clear, and there is no appearance of flood, yet masses of weeds,
as though torn from their beds by torrents, are constantly floating down the stream. One of
my men has been up the river to the farthest navigable point; he declares that it is fed by
many mountain torrents, and that it runs out very rapidly at the cessation of the rains. I
sounded the river in many places, the depth varying very slightly, from twenty-seven to twenty-eight
feet. At 5 P.M. set sail with a light breeze, and glided along the dead water of the White
Nile. Full moon--the water like a mirror; the country one vast and apparently interminable
marsh--the river about a mile wide, and more or less covered with floating plants. The night
still as death; dogs barking in the distant villages, and herds of hippopotami snorting in
all directions, being disturbed by the boats. Course west.

5th Jan.--Fine breeze, as much as we can carry; boats running at eight or nine miles an hour--no
stream perceptible; vast marshes; the clear water of the river not more than 150 yards wide,
forming a channel through the great extent of water grass resembling high sugarcanes, which
conceal the true extent of the river. About six miles west from the Sobat junction on the north
side of the river, is a kind of backwater, extending north like a lake for a distance of several
days' boat journey: this is eventually lost in regions of high grass and marshes; in the wet
season this forms a large lake. A hill bearing north 20 degrees west so distant as to be hardly
discernible.

The Bahr Giraffe is a small river entering the Nile on the south bank between the Sobat and
Bahr el Gazal--my reis (Diabb) tells me it is merely a branch from the White Nile from the
Aliab country, and not an independent river. Course west, 10 degrees north, the current about
one mile per hour. Marshes and ambatch, far as the eye can reach.

At 6.40 P.M. reached the Bahr el Gazal; the junction has the appearance of a lake about three
miles in length, by one in width, varying according to seasons. Although bank-full, there is
no stream whatever from the Bahr el Gazal, and it has the appearance of a backwater formed
by the Nile. The water being clear and perfectly dead, a stranger would imagine it to be an
overflow of the Nile, were the existence of the Bahr el Gazal unknown. The Bahr el Gazal extends
due west from this point for a great distance, the entire river being a system of marshes,
stagnant water overgrown by rushes, and ambatch wood, through which a channel has to be cleared
to permit the passage of a boat. Little or no water can descend to the Nile from this river,
otherwise there would be some trifling current at the embouchure. The Nile has a stream of
about a mile and a half per hour, as it sweeps suddenly round the angle, changing its downward
course from north to east. The breadth in this spot does not exceed 130 yards; but it is impossible
to determine the actual width of the river, as its extent is concealed by reeds with which
the country is entirely covered to the horizon.

The White Nile having an upward course of west 10 degrees north, variation of compass 10 degrees
west, from the Sobat to the Bahr el Gazal junction, now turns abruptly to south 10 degrees
east. From native accounts there is a great extent of lake country at this point. The general
appearance of the country denotes a vast flat, with slight depressions; these form extensive
lakes during the wet season, and sodden marshes during the dry weather; thus contradictory
accounts of the country may be given by travellers according to the seasons at which they examined
it. There is nothing to denote large permanent lakes; vast masses of water plants and vegetation,
requiring both a wet and dry season, exist throughout; but there are no great tracts of deep
water. The lake at the Bahr el Gazal entrance is from seven to nine feet deep, by soundings
in various places. Anchored the little squadron, as I wait here for observations. Had the "Clumsy's"
yard lowered and examined. Cut a supply of grass for the animals.

Jan. 6th.--Overhauled the stores. My stock of liquor will last to Gondokoro; after that spot
"vive la misere." It is curious in African travel to mark the degrees of luxury and misery;
how, one by one, the wine, spirits bread, sugar, tea, etc., are dropped like the feathers of
a moulting bird, and nevertheless we go ahead contented. My men busy cutting grass, washing,
fishing, etc.

Latitude, by meridian altitude of sun, 9 degrees 29 minutes. Difference of time by observation
between this point and the Sobat junction, 4 min. 26 secs., 1 degree 6 minutes 30 seconds distance.
Caught some perch, but without the red fin of the European species; also some boulti with the
net. The latter is a variety of perch growing to about four pounds' weight, and is excellent
eating.

Sailed at 3 P.M. Masses of the beautiful but gloomy Papyrus rush, growing in dense thickets
about eighteen feet above the water. I measured the diameter of one head, or crown, four feet
one inch.  Jan. 7th.--Started at 6 A.M.; course E. 10 degrees S.; wind dead against us; the
"Clumsy" not in sight. Obliged to haul along by fastening long ropes to the grass about a hundred
yards ahead. This is frightful work; the men must swim that distance to secure the rope, and
those on board hauling it in gradually, pull the vessel against the stream. Nothing can exceed
the labor and tediousness of this operation. From constant work in the water many of my men
are suffering from fever. The temperature is much higher than when we left Khartoum; the country,
as usual, one vast marsh. At night the hoarse music of hippopotami snorting and playing among
the high-flooded reeds, and the singing of countless myriads of mosquitoes--the nightingales
of the White Nile. My black fellow, Richarn, whom I had appointed corporal, will soon be reduced
to the ranks; the animal is spoiled by sheer drink. Having been drunk every day in Khartoum,
and now being separated from his liquor, he is plunged into a black melancholy. He sits upon
the luggage like a sick rook, doing minstrelsy, playing the rababa (guitar), and smoking the
whole day, unless asleep, which is half that time: he is sighing after the merissa (beer) pots
of Egypt. This man is an illustration of missionary success. He was brought up from boyhood
at the Austrian mission, and he is a genuine specimen of the average results. He told me a
few days ago that "he is no longer a Christian." There are two varieties of convolvolus growing
here; also a peculiar gourd, which, when dry and divested of its shell, exposes a vegetable
sponge, formed of a dense but fine network of fibers; the seeds are contained in the center
of this fiber. The bright yellow flowers of the ambatch, and of a tree resembling a laburnum,
are in great profusion. The men completely done: I served them out a measure of grog. The "Clumsy"
not in sight.

Jan. 8th.--Waited all night for the "Clumsy." She appeared at 8 A.M., when the reis and several
men received the whip for laziness. All three vessels now rounded a sharp turn in the river,
and the wind being then favorable, we were soon under sail. The clear water of the river from
the Bahr el Gazal to this point, does not exceed a hundred and twenty yards in width. The stream
runs at one and three-quarter miles per hour, bringing with it a quantity of floating vegetation.
The fact of a strong current both above and below the Bahr el Gazal junction, while the lake
at that point is dead water, proves that I was right in my surmise, that no water flows from
the Bahr el Gazal into the Nile during this season, and that the lake and the extensive marshes
at that locality are caused as much by the surplus water of the White Nile flowing into a depression,
as they are by the Bahr el Gazal, the water of the latter river being absorbed by the immense
marshes.

Yesterday we anchored at a dry spot, on which grew many mimosas of the red bark variety; the
ground was a dead flat, and the river was up to the roots of the trees near the margin; thus
the river is quite full at this season, but not flooded. There was no watermark upon the stems
of the trees; thus I have little doubt that the actual rise of the water-level during the rainy
season is very trifling, as the water extends over a prodigious extent of surface, the river
having no banks. The entire country is merely a vast marsh, with a river flowing through the
midst. At this season last year I was on the Settite. That great river and the Atbara were
then excessively low.

The Blue Nile was also low at the same time. On the contrary, the White Nile and the Sobat,
although not at their highest, are bank-full, while the former two are failing; this proves
that the White Nile and the Sobat rise far south, among mountains subject to a rainfall at
different seasons, extending over a greater portion of the year than the rainy season of Abyssinia
and the neighbouring Galla country. Wind light; course S. 20 degrees W. The strong north wind
that took us from Khartoum has long since become a mere breath. It never blows in this latitude
regularly from the north. The wind commences at between 8 and 9 A.M., and sinks at sunset;
thus the voyage through these frightful marshes and windings is tedious and melancholy beyond
description. Great numbers of hippopotami this evening, greeting the boats with their loud
snorting bellow, which vibrates through the vessels.

Jan. 9th.--Two natives fishing; left their canoe and ran on the approach of our boats. My men
wished to steal it, which of course I prevented; it was a simple dome palm hollowed. In the
canoe was a harpoon, very neatly made, with only one barb. Both sides of the river from the
Bahr el Gazal belong to the Nuehr tribe. Course S.E.; wind very light; windings of river endless;
continual hauling. At about half an hour before sunset, as the men were hauling the boat along
by dragging at the high reeds from the deck, a man at the mast-head reported a buffalo standing
on a dry piece of ground near the river; being in want of meat, the men begged me to shoot
him. The buffalo was so concealed by the high grass, that he could not be seen from the deck;
I therefore stood upon an angarep (bedstead) on the poop, and from this I could just discern
his head and shoulders in the high grass, about a hundred and twenty yards off. I fired with
No. 1 Reilly rifle, and he dropped apparently dead to the shot. The men being hungry, were
mad with delight, and regardless of all but meat, they dashed into the water, and were shortly
at him; one man holding him by the tail, another dancing upon him and brandishing his knife,
and all shouting a yell of exultation. Presently up jumped the insulted buffalo, and charging
through the men, he disappeared in the high grass, falling, as the men declared, in the deep
morass. It was dusk, and the men, being rather ashamed of their folly in dancing instead of
hamstringing the animal and securing their beef, slunk back to their vessels.

Jan. 10th.--Early in the morning the buffalo was heard groaning in the marsh, not far from
the spot where he was supposed to have fallen. About forty men took their guns and knives,
intent upon beefsteaks, and waded knee-deep in mud and water through the high grass of the
morass in search. About one hour passed in this way, and, seeing the reckless manner in which
the men were wandering about, I went down below to beat the drum to call them back, which the
vakeel had been vainly attempting. Just at this moment I heard a distant yelling, and shot
fired after shot, about twenty times, in quick succession. I saw with the telescope a crowd
of men about three hundred yards distant, standing on a white ant-hill raised above the green
sea of high reeds, from which elevated point they were keeping up a dropping fire at some object
indistinguishable in the high grass. The death-howl was soon raised, and the men rushing down
from their secure position, shortly appeared, carrying with them my best choush, Sali Achmet,
dead. He had come suddenly upon the buffalo, who, although disabled, had caught him in the
deep mud and killed him. His gallant comrades bolted, although he called to them for assistance,
and they had kept up a distant fire from the lofty ant-hill, instead of rushing to his rescue.
The buffalo lay dead; and a grave was immediately dug for the unfortunate Sali. My journey
begins badly with the death of my good man Johann and my best choush--added to the constant
mishaps of the "Clumsy." Fortunately I did not start from Khartoum on a Friday, or the unlucky
day would have borne the onus of all the misfortunes.

The graves of the Arabs are an improvement upon those of Europeans. What poor person who cannot
afford a vault, has not felt a pang as the clod fell upon the coffin of his relative? The Arabs
avoid this. Although there is no coffin, the rude earth does not rest upon the body. The hole
being dug similar in shape to a European grave, an extra trench is formed at the bottom of
the grave about a foot wide. The body is laid upon its side within this trench, and covered
by bricks made of clay which are laid across;-thus the body is contained within a narrow vault.
Mud is then smeared over the hastily made bricks and nothing is visible; the tomb being made
level with the bottom of the large grave. This is filled up with earth, which, resting on the
brick covering of the trench cannot press upon the body. In such a grave my best man was laid--the
Slave women raising their horrible howling and my men crying loudly, as well explained in the
words of Scripture, "and he lifted up his voice and wept." I was glad to see so much external
feeling for their comrade, but the grave being filled, their grief, like all loud sorrow, passed
quickly away and relapsed into thoughts of buffalo meat; they were soon busily engaged in cutting
up the flesh. There are two varieties of buffaloes in this part of Africa--the Bos Caffer,
with convex horns, and that with flat horns; this was the latter species. A horn had entered
the man's thigh, tearing the whole of the muscles from the bone; there was also a wound from
the centre of the throat to the ear, thus completely torn open, severing the jugular vein.
One rib was broken, the breast-bone. As usual with buffaloes, he had not rested content until
he had pounded the breath out of the body, which was found embedded and literally stamped tight
into the mud, with only a portion of the head above the marsh. Sali had not even cocked his
gun, the hammer being down on the nipples when found. I will not allow these men to come to
grief in this way; they are a reckless set of thoughtless cowards, full of noise and bluster,
fond of firing off their guns like children, and wasting ammunition uselessly, and in time
of danger they can never be relied upon; they deserted their comrade when in need, and cried
aloud like infants at his death; they shall not again be allowed to move from the boats.

In the evening I listened to the men conversing over the whole affair, when I learnt the entire
truth. It appears that Richarn and two other men were with the unfortunate Sali when the brute
charged him, and the cowards all bolted without firing a shot in defense. There was a large
white ant-hill about fifty yards distant, to which they retreated; from the top of this fort
they repeatedly saw the man thrown into the air, and heard him calling for assistance. Instead
of hastening in a body to his aid, they called to him to "keep quiet and the buffalo would
leave him." This is a sample of the courage of these Khartoumers. The buffalo was so disabled
by my shot of yesterday that he was incapable of leaving the spot, as, with a broken shoulder,
he could not get through the deep mud. My Reilly No. 10 bullet was found under the skin of
the right shoulder, having passed in at the left shoulder rather above the lungs. The windings
of this monotonous river are extraordinary, and during dead calms in these vast marshes the
feeling of melancholy produced is beyond description. The White Nile is a veritable "Styx."
When the wind does happen to blow hard, the navigation is most difficult, owing to the constant
windings; the sailors being utterly ignorant, and the rig of the vessel being the usual huge
"leg of mutton" sail, there is an amount of screaming and confusion at every attempt to tack
which generally ends in our being driven on the lee marsh; this is preferable to a capsize,
which is sometimes anything but distant. This morning is one of those days of blowing hard,
with the accompaniments of screaming and shouting. Course S.E. Waited half a day for the "Clumsy,"
which hove in sight just before dark; the detentions caused by this vessel are becoming serious,
a quick voyage being indispensable for the animals. The camels are already suffering from confinement,
and I have their legs well swathed in wet bandages.

This marsh land varies in width. In some portions of the river it appears to extend for about
two miles on either side; in other parts farther than the eye can reach. In all cases the main
country is a dead flat; now blazing and smoking beyond the limit of marshes, as the natives
have fired the dry grass in all directions. Reeds, similar in appearance to bamboos but distinct
from them, big water-grass, like sugarcanes, excellent fodder for the cattle, and the ever-present
ambatch, cover the morasses. Innumerable mosquitoes.

Jan. 12th--Fine breeze in the morning, but obliged to wait for the "Clumsy", which arrived
at 10 A.M. How absurd are some descriptions of the White Nile, which state that there is no
current! At some parts, like that from just above the Sobat junction to Khartoum, there is
but little, but since we have left the Bahr el Gazal the stream runs from one and three-quarters
to two and a half miles per hour, varying in localities. Here it is not more than a hundred
yards wide in clear water. At 11.20 A.M. got under weigh with a rattling breeze, but scarcely
had we been half an hour under sail when crack went the great yard of the "Clumsy" once more.
I had her taken in tow. It is of no use repairing the yard again, and, were it not for the
donkeys, I would abandon her. Koorshid Aga's boats were passing us in full sail when his diahbiah
suddenly carried away her rudder, and went head first into the morass. I serve out grog to
the men when the drum beats at sunset, if all the boats are together.

Jan. 13th.--Stopped near a village on the right bank in company with Koorshid Aga's two diahbiahs.
The natives came down to the boats--they are something superlative in the way of savages; the
men as naked as they came into the world; their bodies rubbed with ashes, and their hair stained
red by a plaster of ashes and cow's urine. These fellows are the most unearthly-looking devils
I ever saw--there is no other expression for them. The unmarried women are also entirely naked;
the married have a fringe made of grass around their loins. The men wear heavy coils of beads
about their necks, two heavy bracelets of ivory on the upper portion of the arms, copper rings
upon the wrists, and a horrible kind of bracelet of massive iron armed with spikes about an
inch in length, like leopard's claws, which they use for a similar purpose. The chief of the
Nuehr village, Joctian, with his wife and daughter, paid me a visit, and asked for all they
saw in the shape of beads and bracelets, but declined a knife as useless. They went away delighted
with their presents. The women perforate the upper lip, and wear an ornament about four inches
long of beads upon an iron wire; this projects like the horn of a rhinoceros; they are very
ugly. The men are tall and powerful, armed with lances. They carry pipes that contain nearly
a quarter of a pound of tobacco, in which they smoke simple charcoal should the loved tobacco
fail. The carbonic acid gas of the charcoal produces a slight feeling of intoxication, which
is the effect desired. Koorshid Aga returned them a girl from Khartoum who had been captured
by a slave-hunter; this delighted the people, and they immediately brought an ox as an offering.
The "Clumsy's" yard broke in two pieces, thus I was obliged to seek a dry spot for the necessary
repairs. I left the village Nuehr Eliab, and in the evening lowered the "Clumsy's" yard; taking
her in tow, we are, this moment, 8.30 P.M., slowly sailing through clouds of mosquitoes looking
out for a landing-place in this world of marshes. I took the chief of the Nuehrs' portrait,
as he sat in my cabin on the divan; of course he was delighted. He exhibited his wife's arms
and back covered with jagged scars, in reply to my question as to the use of the spiked iron
bracelet. Charming people are these poor blacks! as they are termed by English sympathisers;
he was quite proud of having clawed his wife like a wild beast. In sober earnest, my monkey
"Wallady" looks like a civilized being compared to the Nuehr savages. The chiefs forehead was
tattooed in horizontal lines that had the appearance of wrinkles. The hair is worn drawn back
from the face. Both men and women wear a bag slung from the neck, apparently to contain any
presents they may receive, everything being immediately pocketed. Course S.S.E.

Jan. 14th.-All day occupied in repairing the yard; the buffalo hide of the animal that killed
Sali Achmet being most serviceable in lashing. Sailed in the evening in company with a boat
belonging to the Austrian mission. River about 120 yards of clear water; current about two
miles per hour. Found quantities of natron on the marshy ground bordering the river.

Had a turkey for dinner, a "cadeau" from Koorshid Aga, and, as a great wonder, the kisras (a
sort of brown pancake in lieu of bread) were free from sand. I must have swallowed a good-sized
millstone since I have been in Africa, in the shape of grit rubbed from the moorhaka, or grinding-stone.
The moorhaka, when new, is a large flat stone, weighing about forty pounds; upon this the corn
is ground by being rubbed with a cylindrical stone with both hands. After a few months' use
half of the original grinding-stone disappears, the grit being mixed with the flour; thus the
grinding-stone is actually eaten. No wonder that hearts become stony in this country!

Jan. 15th.-We were towing through high reeds this morning, the men invisible, and the rope
mowing over the high tops of the grass, when the noise disturbed a hippopotamus from his slumber,
and he was immediately perceived close to the boat. He was about half grown, and in an instant
about twenty men jumped into the water in search of him, thinking him a mere baby; but as he
suddenly appeared, and was about three times as large as they had expected, they were not very
eager to close. However, the reis Diabb pluckily led the way and seized him by the hind leg,
when the crowd of men rushed in, and we had a grand tussle. Ropes were thrown from the vessel,
and nooses were quickly slipped over his head, but he had the best of the struggle and was
dragging the people into the open river; I was therefore obliged to end the sport by putting
a ball through his head. He was scored all over by the tusks of some other hippopotamus that
had been bullying him. The men declared that his father had thus misused him; others were of
opinion that it was his mother; and the argument ran high, and became hot.

These Arabs have an extraordinary taste for arguments upon the most trifling points. I have
frequently known my men argue throughout the greater part of the night, and recommence the
same argument on the following morning. These debates generally end in a fight; and in the
present instance the excitement of the hunt only added to the heat of the argument. They at
length agreed to refer it to me, and both parties approached, vociferously advancing their
theories; one half persisting that the young hippo had been bullied by his father, and the
others adhering to the mother as the cause. I, being referee, suggested that "perhaps it was
his UNCLE." Wah Illahi sahe! (By Allah it is true!) Both parties were satisfied with the suggestion;
dropping their theory they became practical, and fell to with knives and axes to cut up the
cause of the argument. He was as fat as butter, and was a perfect godsend to the people, who
divided him with great excitement and good humour.

We are now a fleet of seven boats, those of several traders having joined us. The "Clumsy's"
yard looks much better than formerly. I cut off about ten feet from the end, as it was topheavy.
The yard of this class of vessel should look like an immense fishing-rod, and should be proportionately
elastic, as it tapers gradually to a point. Course S.E. I hear that the Shillook tribe have
attacked Chenooda's people, and that his boat was capsized, and some lives lost in the hasty
retreat. It serves these slave-hunters right, and I rejoice at their defeat. Exodus xx.

Jan. 16th.--A new dish! There is no longer mock-turtle soup--REAL turtle is MOCK HIPPOPOTAMUS.
I tried boiling the fat, flesh, and skin together, the result being that the skin assumes the
appearance of the green fat of the turtle, but is far superior. A piece of the head thus boiled,
and then soused in vinegar, with chopped onions, cayenne pepper, and salt, throws brawn completely
in the shade. My men having revelled in a cauldron of hippopotamus soup, I serve out grog at
sunset, all ships being together. Great contentment, all appetites being satisfied. The labour
of towing through swamps, tugging by the long grass, and poling against a strong current, is
dreadful, and there appears to be no end to this horrible country. "On dit," that during the
dry season there is plenty of game near the river, but at present boundless marshes devoid
of life, except in the shape of mosquitoes, and a very few water-fowl, are the only charms
of the White Nile. The other day I caught one of the men stealing the salt; Richarn having
been aware of daily thefts of this treasure, and having failed to report them, the thief received
twenty with the coorbatch, and Richarn is reduced to the ranks, as I anticipated. No possibility
of taking observations, as there is no landing-place. Jan. 17th.-As usual, marshes, mosquitoes,
windings, dead flats, and light winds; the mosquitoes in the cabin give no rest even during
the day. Stream about two miles per hour. Course S.E.; the river averaging about one hundred
and ten yards in width of clear water. Jan. 18th.-Country as usual, but the wind brisker. In
company with Koorshid Aga's boats. I have bound the stock of Oswell's old gun with rhinoceros
hide. All guns made for sport in wild countries and rough riding, should have steel instead
of iron from the breech-socket, extending far back to within six inches of the shoulder-plate;
the trigger-guard should likewise be steel, and should be carried back to an equal distance
with the above rib; the steel should be of extra thickness, and screwed through to the upper
piece; thus the two, being connected by screws above and below, no fall could break the stock.

Jan,. 19th.-At 8 A.M. we emerged from the apparently endless regions of marsh grass, and saw
on the right bank large herds of cattle, tended by naked natives, in a country abounding with
high grass and mimosa wood. At 9.15 A.M. arrived at the Zareeba, or station of Binder, an Austrian
subject, and White Nile trader; here we found five noggurs belonging to him and his partner.
Binder's vakeel insisted upon giving a bullock to my people. This bullock I resisted for some
time, until I saw that the man was affronted. It is impossible to procure from the natives
any cattle by purchase. The country is now a swamp, but it will be passable during the dry
season. Took equal altitudes of sun producing latitude 7 degrees 5' 46". The misery of these
unfortunate blacks is beyond description; they will not kill their cattle, neither do they
taste meat unless an animal dies of sickness; they will not work, thus they frequently starve,
existing only upon rats, lizards, snakes, and upon such fish as they can spear. The spearing
of fish is a mere hazard, as they cast the harpoon at random among the reeds; thus, out of
three or four hundred casts, they may, by good luck, strike a fish. The harpoon is neatly made,
and is attached to a pliable reed about twenty feet long, secured by a long line. Occasionally
they strike a monster, as there are varieties of fish which attain a weight of two hundred
pounds. In the event of harpooning such a fish, a long and exciting chase is the result, as
he carries away the harpoon, and runs out the entire length of line; they then swim after him,
holding their end of the line, and playing him until exhausted. The chief of this tribe (the
Kytch) wore a leopard-skin across his shoulders, and a skull-cap of white beads, with a crest
of white ostrich-feathers; but the mantle was merely slung over his shoulders, and all other
parts of his person were naked. His daughter was the best-looking girl that I have seen among
the blacks; she was about sixteen. Her clothing consisted of a little piece of dressed hide
about a foot wide slung across her shoulders, all other parts being exposed. All the girls
of this country wear merely a circlet of little iron jingling ornaments round their waists.
They came in numbers, bringing small bundles of wood to exchange for a few handfuls of corn.
Most of the men are tall, but wretchedly thin; the children are mere skeletons, and the entire
tribe appears thoroughly starved. The language is that of the Dinka. The chief carried a curious
tobacco-box, an iron spike about two feet long, with a hollow socket, bound with iguana-skin;
this served for either tobacco-box, club, or dagger. Throughout the whole of this marshy country
it is curious to observe the number of white ant-hills standing above the water in the marshes:
these Babel towers save their inmates from the deluge; working during the dry season, the white
ants carry their hills to so great a height (about ten feet), that they can live securely in
the upper stories during the floods. The whole day we are beset by crowds of starving people,
bringing small gourd-shells to receive the expected corn. The people of this tribe are mere
apes, trusting entirely to the productions of nature for their subsistence; they will spend
hours in digging out field-mice from their burrows, as we should for rabbits. They are the
most pitiable set of savages that can be imagined; so emaciated, that they have no visible
posteriors; they look as though they had been planed off, and their long thin legs and arms
give them a peculiar gnat-like appearance. At night they crouch close to the fires, lying in
the smoke to escape the clouds of mosquitoes. At this season the country is a vast swamp, the
only dry spots being the white ant-hills; in such places the natives herd like wild animals,
simply rubbing themselves with wood-ashes to keep out the cold.

Jan. 20th.--The river from this spot turns sharp to the east, but an arm equally broad comes
from S. 20 degrees E. to this point. There is no stream from this arm. The main stream runs
round the angle with a rapid current of about two and a half miles per hour. The natives say
that this arm of dead water extends for three or four days' sailing, and is then lost in the
high reeds. My reis Diabb declares this to be a mere backwater, and that it is not connected
with the main river by any positive channel.

So miserable are the natives of the Kytch tribe, that they devour both skins and bones of all
dead animals; the bones are pounded between stones, and when reduced to powder they are boiled
to a kind of porridge; nothing is left even for a fly to feed upon, when an animal either dies
a natural death, or is killed. I never pitied poor creatures more than these utterly destitute
savages; their method of returning thanks is by holding your hand and affecting to spit upon
it; which operation they do not actually perform, as I have seen stated in works upon the White
Nile. Their domestic arrangements are peculiar. Polygamy is of course allowed, as in all other
hot climates and savage countries; but when a man becomes too old to pay sufficient attention
to his numerous young wives, the eldest son takes the place of his father and becomes his substitute.
To every herd of cattle there is a sacred bull, which is supposed to exert an influence over
the prosperity of the flocks; his horns are ornamented with tufts of feathers, and frequently
with small bells, and he invariably leads the great herd to pasture. On starting in the early
morning from the cattle kraal the natives address the bull, telling him "to watch over the
herd; to keep the cows from straying; and to lead them to the sweetest pastures, so that they
shall give abundance of milk," &c.

Jan. 21st.--Last night a sudden squall carried away Koorshid Aga's mast by the deck, leaving
him a complete wreck. The weather to-day is dull, oppressive, and dead calm. As usual, endless
marshes, and mosquitoes. I never either saw or heard of so disgusting a country as that bordering
the White Nile from Khartoum to this point. Course S.E. as nearly as I can judge, but the endless
windings, and the absence of any mark as a point, make it difficult to give an accurate course--the
river about a hundred yards in width of clear water; alive with floating vegetation, with a
current of about two miles per hour.

Jan. 22d.--The luxuries of the country as usual--malaria, marshes, mosquitoes, misery; far
as the eye can reach, vast treeless marshes perfectly lifeless. At times progressing slowly
by towing, the men struggling through the water with the rope; at other times by running round
the boat in a circle, pulling with their hands at the grass, which thus acts like the cogs
of a wheel to move us gradually forward. One of my horses, "Filfil," out of pure amusement
kicks at the men as they pass, and having succeeded several times in kicking them into the
river, he perseveres in the fun, I believe for lack of other employment.

Hippopotami are heard snorting in the high reeds both day and night, but we see very few. The
black women on board are daily quarrelling together and fighting like bull-dogs; little Gaddum
Her is a regular black toy terrier, rather old, wonderfully strong, very short, but making
up in spirit for what she lacks in stature; she is the quintessence of vice, being ready for
a stand-up fight at the shortest notice. On one occasion she fought with her antagonist until
both fell down the hold, smashing all my water jars; on another day they both fell into the
river. The ennui of this wretched voyage appears to try the temper of both man and beast; the
horses, donkeys, and camels are constantly fighting and biting at all around.

Jan. 23d.--At 8 a.m. arrived at Aboukooka, the establishment of a French trader. It is impossible
to describe the misery of the land; in the midst of the vast expanse of marsh is a little plot
of dry ground about thirty-five yards square, and within thirty yards of the river, but to
be reached only by wading through the swamp. The establishment consisted of about a dozen straw
huts, occupied by a wretched fever-stricken set of people; the vakeel, and others employed,
came to the boats to beg for corn. I stopped for ten minutes at the charming watering-place
Aboukooka to obtain the news of the country. The current at this point is as usual very strong,
being upwards of two and a half miles per hour; the river is quite bank-full although not actually
flooding, the windings endless; one moment our course is due north, then east, then again north,
and as suddenly due south; in fact, we face every point of the compass within an hour. Frequently
the noggurs that are far in the rear appear in advance; it is a heartbreaking river without
a single redeeming point; I do not wonder at the failure of all expeditions in this wretched
country. There is a breeze to-day, thus the oppressive heat and stagnated marsh atmosphere
is relieved. I have always remarked that when the sky is clouded we suffer more from heat and
oppression than when the day is clear; there is a weight in the atmosphere that would be interesting
if tested by the barometer.

The water is excessively bad throughout the White Nile, especially between the Shillook and
the Kytch tribes; that of the Bahr Gazal is even worse. The reis Diabb tells me that the north
wind always fails between the Nuehr and the upper portion of the Kytch. I could not believe
that so miserable a country existed as the whole of this land. There is no game to be seen
at this season, few birds, and not even crocodiles show themselves; all the water-animals are
hidden in the high grass; thus there is absolutely nothing living to be seen, but day after
day is passed in winding slowly through the labyrinth of endless marsh, through clouds of mosquitoes.

At 4.20 a.m. arrived at the Austrian mission-station of St. Croix, and I delivered a letter
to the chief of the establishment, Herr Morlang.

Jan. 24th.--Took observations of the sun, making latitude 6 degrees 39'.

The mission-station consists of about twenty grass huts on a patch of dry ground close to the
river. The church is a small hut, but neatly arranged. Herr Morlang acknowledged, with great
feeling, that the mission was absolutely useless among such savages; that he had worked with
much zeal for many years, but that the natives were utterly impracticable. They were far below
the brutes, as the latter show signs of affection to those who are kind to them; while the
natives, on the contrary, are utterly obtuse to all feelings of gratitude. He described the
people as lying and deceitful to a superlative degree; the more they receive the more they
desire, but in return they will do nothing.

Twenty or thirty of these disgusting, ash-smeared, stark naked brutes, armed with clubs of
hard wood brought to a point, were lying idly about the station. The mission having given up
the White Nile as a total failure, Herr Morlang sold the whole village and mission-station
to Koorshid Aga this morning for 3,000 piastres, 30 pounds! I purchased a horse of the missionaries
for 1,000 piastres, which I christened "Priest" as coming from the mission; he is a good-looking
animal, and has been used to the gun, as the unfortunate Baron Harnier rode him buffalo-hunting.
This good sportsman was a Prussian nobleman, who with two European attendants, had for some
time amused himself by collecting objects of natural history and shooting in this neighbourhood.
Both his Europeans succumbed to marsh fever.

The end of Baron Harnier was exceedingly tragic.  Having wounded a buffalo, the animal charged
a native attendant and threw him to the ground; Baron Harnier was unloaded, and with great
courage he attacked the buffalo with the butt-end of his rifle to rescue the man then beneath
the animal's horns. The buffalo left the man and turned upon his new assailant. The native,
far from assisting his master, who had thus jeopardized his life to save him, fled from the
spot. The unfortunate baron was found by the missionaries trampled and gored into an undistinguishable
mass; and the dead body of the buffalo was found at a short distance, the animal having been
mortally wounded. I went to see the grave of this brave Prussian, who had thus sacrificed so
noble a life for so worthless an object as a cowardly native. It had been well cared for by
the kind hands of the missionaries and was protected by thorn bushes laid around it, but I
fear it will be neglected now that the mission has fallen into unholy hands. It is a pitiable
sight to witness the self-sacrifice that many noble men have made in these frightful countries
without any good results. Near to the grave of Baron Harnier are those of several members of
the mission, who have left their bones in this horrid land, while not one convert has been
made from the mission of St. Croix.

The river divides into two branches, about five miles above this station, forming an island.
Upon this is a fishing-station of the natives; the native name of the spot is Pomone. The country
is swampy and scantily covered with bushes and small trees, but no actual timber. As usual,
the entire country is dead flat; it abounds with elephants a few miles inland. Herr Morlang
describes the whole of the White Nile traders as a mere colony of robbers, who pillage and
shoot the natives at discretion. On the opposite side of the river there is a large neglected
garden, belonging to the mission. Although the soil is extremely rich, neither grapes nor pomegranate
will succeed; they bear fruit, but of a very acrid flavour. Dates blossom, but will not fruit.

Jan. 25th.--Started at 7 A.M. Course S.E.

Jan. 26th.--The Bohr tribe on the east bank. No wind. The current nearly three miles per hour.
The river about a hundred and twenty yards wide in clear water. Marshes and flats, as usual.
Thermometer throughout the journey, at 6 A.M., 68 degrees Fahr., and at noon 86 to 93 degrees Fahr.

Jan. 27th.--One day is a repetition of the preceding.

Jan. 28th.--Passed two bivouacs of the Aliab tribe, with great herds of cattle on the west
bank. The natives appeared to be friendly, dancing and gesticulating as the boats passed. The
White Nile tribe not only milk their cows, but they bleed their cattle periodically, and boil
the blood for food. Driving a lance into a vein in the neck, they bleed the animal copiously,
which operation is repeated about once a month.

Jan. 29th.--Passed a multitude of cattle and natives on a spot on the right bank, in clouds
of smoke as a "chasse des moustiques." They make tumuli of dung, which are constantly on fire,
fresh fuel being continually added, to drive away the mosquitoes. Around these heaps the cattle
crowd in hundreds, living with the natives in the smoke. By degrees the heaps of ashes become
about eight feet high; they are then used as sleeping-places and watch-stations by the natives,
who, rubbing themselves all over with the ashes, have a ghastly and devilish appearance that
is indescribable. The country is covered with old tumuli formed in this manner. A camp may
contain twenty or thirty such, in addition to fresh heaps that are constantly burning. Fires
of cow-dung are also made on the leveled tops of the old heaps, and bundles of green canes,
about sixteen feet high, are planted on the summit; these wave in the breeze like a plume of
ostrich feathers, and give shade to the people during the heat of the day.

JAN. 30TH.--Arrived at the "Shir" tribe. The men are, as usual in these countries, armed with
well-made ebony clubs, two lances, a bow (always strung), and a bundle of arrows; their hands
are completely full of weapons; and they carry a neatly-made miniature stool slung upon their
backs, in addition to an immense pipe. Thus a man carries all that be most values about his
person. The females in this tribe are not absolutely naked; like those of the Kytch, they wear
small lappets of tanned leather as broad as the hand; at the back of the belt, which supports
this apron, is a tail which reaches to the lower portions of the thighs; this tail is formed
of finely-cut strips of leather, and the costume has doubtless been the foundation for the
report I had received from the Arabs, "that a tribe in Central Africa had tails like horses."
The women carry their children very conveniently in a skin slung from their shoulders across
the back, and secured by a thong round the waist; in this the young savage sits delightfully.
The huts throughout all tribes are circular, with entrances so low that the natives creep both
in and out upon their hands and knees. The men wear tufts of cock's feathers on the crown of
the head; and their favorite attitude, when standing, is on one leg while leaning on a spear,
the foot of the raised leg resting on the inside of the other knee. Their arrows are about
three feet long, without feathers, and pointed with hard wood instead of iron, the metal being
scarce among the Shir tribe. The most valuable article of barter for this tribe is the iron
hoe generally used among the White Nile negroes. In form it is precisely similar to the "ace
of spades." The finery most prized by the women are polished iron anklets, which they wear
in such numbers that they reach nearly half-way up the calf of the leg; the tinkling of these
rings is considered to be very enticing, but the sound reminds one of the clanking of convicts'
fetters.

All the tribes of the White Nile have their harvest of the lotus seed. There are two species
of water-lily--the large white flower, and a small variety. The seed-pod of the white lotus
is like an unblown artichoke, containing a number of light red grains equal in size to mustard-seed,
but shaped like those of the poppy, and similar to them in flavour, being sweet and nutty.
The ripe pods are collected and strung upon sharp-pointed reeds about four feet in length.
When thus threaded they are formed into large bundles, and carried from the river to the villages,
where they are dried in the sun, and stored for use. The seed is ground into flour, and made
into a kind of porridge. The women of the Shir tribe are very clever at manufacturing baskets
and mats from the leaf of the dome palm. They also make girdles and necklaces of minute pieces
of river mussel shells threaded upon the hair of the giraffe's tail. This is a work of great
time, and the effect is about equal to a string of mother-of-pearl buttons.

Jan. 31st.--At 1.15 P.M. sighted Gebel Lardo, bearing S. 30 degrees west. This is the first
mountain we have seen, and we are at last near our destination, Gondokoro. I observed to-day
a common sand-piper sitting on the head of a hippopotamus; when he disappeared under water
the bird skimmed over the surface, hovering near the spot until the animal reappeared, when
he again settled.

Feb. 1st.--The character of the river has changed. The marshes have given place to dry ground;
the banks are about four feet above the water-level, and well wooded; the country having the
appearance of an orchard, and being thickly populated. The natives thronged to the boats, being
astonished at the camels. At one village during the voyage the natives examined the donkeys
with great curiosity, thinking that they were the oxen of our country, and that we were bringing
them to exchange for ivory.

Feb. 2nd--The mountain Lardo is about twelve miles west of the river. At daybreak we sighted
the mountains near Gondokoro, bearing due south. As yet I have seen no symptoms of hostility
in this country. I cannot help, thinking that the conduct of the natives depends much upon
that of the traveller. Arrived at Gondokoro. By astronomical observation I determined the latitude,
4 degrees 55 minutes North, Longitude 31 degrees 46 minutes East. Gondokoro is a great improvement
upon the interminable marshes; the soil is firm and raised about twenty feet above the river
level. Distant mountains relieve the eye accustomed to the dreary flats of the White Nile;
and evergreen trees scattered over the face of the landscape, with neat little native villages
beneath their shade, form a most inviting landing-place after a long and tedious voyage. This
spot was formerly a mission-station. There remain to this day the ruins of the brick establishment
and church, and the wreck of what was once a garden; groves of citron and lime-trees still
exist, the only signs that an attempt at civilization has been made--"seed cast upon the wayside."
There is no town. A few miserable grass huts are all that dignify the spot with a name. The
climate is unhealthy and hot. The thermometer from 90 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit at noon in the
shade.

I landed the animals from the boats in excellent condition all rejoicing in the freedom of
open pasturage.

CHAPTER II.

BAD RECEPTION AT GONDOKORO

All were thankful that the river voyage was concluded; the tedium of the White Nile will have
been participated by the reader, upon whom I have inflicted the journal, as no other method
of description could possibly convey an idea of the general desolation.

In conversing with the traders, and assuring them that my object was entirely confined to a
search for the Nile sources, and an inquiry for Speke and Grant, I heard a curious report that
had been brought down by the natives from the interior, that at some great distance to the
south there were two white men who had been for a long time prisoners of a sultan; and that
these men had wonderful fireworks; that both had been very ill, and that one had died. It was
in vain that I endeavoured to obtain some further clue to this exciting report. There was a
rumour that some native had a piece of wood with marks upon it that had belonged to the white
men; but upon inquiry I found that this account was only a report given by some distant tribe.
Nevertheless, I attached great importance to the rumour, as there was no white man south of
Gondokoro engaged in the ivory trade; therefore there was a strong probability that the report
had some connexion with the existence of Speke and Grant. I now understood that the party were
expected to arrive at Gondokoro from that station with ivory in a few days, and I determined
to wait for their arrival, and to return with them in company.

I accordingly amused myself at Gondokoro, exercising my horses in riding about the neighbourhood,
and studying the place and people. The native dwellings are the perfection of cleanliness;
the domicile of each family is surrounded by a hedge of the impenetrable euphorbia, and the
interior of the enclosure generally consists of a yard neatly plastered with a cement of ashes,
cow-dung, and sand. Upon this cleanly-swept surface are one or more huts surrounded by granaries
of neat wicker-work, thatched, resting upon raised platforms. The huts have projecting roofs
in order to afford a shade, and the entrance is usually about two feet high. When a member
of the family dies he is buried in the yard; a few ox-horns and skulls are suspended on a pole
above the spot, while the top of the pole is ornamented with a bunch of cock's feathers. Every
man carries his weapons, pipe, and stool, the whole (except the stool) being held between his
legs when standing. These natives of Gondokoro are the Bari: the men are well grown, the women
are not prepossessing, but the negro-type of thick lips and flat nose is wanting; their features
are good, and the woolly hair alone denotes the trace of negro blood. They are tattooed upon
the stomach, sides, and back, so closely, that it has the appearance of a broad belt of fish-scales,
especially when they are rubbed with red ochre, which is the prevailing fashion. This pigment
is made of a peculiar clay, rich in oxide of iron, which, when burnt, is reduced to powder,
and then formed into lumps like pieces of soap; both sexes anoint themselves with this ochre,
formed into a paste by the admixture of grease, giving themselves the appearance of new red
bricks. The only hair upon their persons is a small tuft upon the crown of the head, in which
they stick one or more feathers. The women are generally free from hair, their heads being
shaved. They wear a neat little lappet, about six inches long, of beads, or of small iron rings,
worked like a coat of mail, in lieu of a fig-leaf, and the usual tail of fine shreds of leather
or twine, spun from indigenous cotton, pendant behind. Both the lappet and tail are fastened
on a belt which is worn round the loins, like those in the Shir tribe; thus the toilette is
completed at once. It would be highly useful, could they only wag their tails to whisk off
the flies which are torments in this country.

The cattle are very small; the goats and sheep are quite Lilliputian, but they generally give
three at a birth, and thus multiply quickly. The people of the country were formerly friendly,
but the Khartoumers pillage and murder them at discretion in all directions; thus, in revenge,
they will shoot a poisoned arrow at a stranger unless he is powerfully escorted. The effect
of the poison used for the arrow-heads is very extraordinary. A man came to me for medical
aid; five months ago he bad been wounded by a poisoned arrow in the leg, below the calf, and
the entire foot had been eaten away by the action of the poison. The bone rotted through just
above the ankle, and the foot dropped off. The most violent poison is the produce of the root
of a tree, whose milky juice yields a resin that is smeared upon the arrow. It is brought from
a great distance, from some country far west of Gondokoro. The juice of the species of euphorbia,
common in these countries, is also used for poisoning arrows. Boiled to the consistence of
tar, it is then smeared upon the blade. The action of the poison is to corrode the flesh, which
loses its fiber, and drops away like jelly, after severe inflammation and swelling. The arrows
are barbed with diabolical ingenuity; some are arranged with poisoned heads that fit into sockets;
these detach from the arrow on an attempt to withdraw them; thus the barbed blade, thickly
smeared with poison, remains in the wound, and before it can be cut out the poison is absorbed
by the system. Fortunately the natives are bad archers. The bows are invariably made of the
male bamboo, and are kept perpetually strung; they are exceedingly stiff, but not very elastic,
and the arrows are devoid of feathers, being simple reeds or other light wood, about three
feet long, and slightly knobbed at the base as a hold for the finger and thumb; the string
is never drawn with the two forefingers, as in most countries, but is simply pulled by holding
the arrow between the middle joint of the forefinger and the thumb. A stiff bow drawn in this
manner has very little power; accordingly the extreme range seldom exceeds a hundred and ten yards.

The Bari tribe are very hostile, and are considered to be about the worst of the White Nile.
They have been so often defeated by the traders' parties in the immediate neighborhood of Gondokoro,
that they are on their best behavior, while within half a mile of the station; but it is not
at all uncommon to be asked for beads as a tax for the right of sitting under a shady tree,
or for passing through the country. The traders' people, in order to terrify them into submission,
were in the habit of binding them, hands and feet, and carrying them to the edge of a cliff
about thirty feet high, a little beyond the ruins of the old mission-house: beneath this cliff
the river boils in a deep eddy; into this watery grave the victims were remorselessly hurled
as food for crocodiles. It appeared that this punishment was dreaded by the natives more than
the bullet or rope, and it was accordingly adopted by the trading parties.

Upon my arrival at Gondokoro I was looked upon by all these parties as a spy sent by the British
Government. Whenever I approached the encampments of the various traders, I heard the clanking
of fetters before I reached the station, as the slaves were being quickly driven into hiding-places
to avoid inspection. They were chained by two rings secured round the ankles, and connected
by three or four links. One of these traders was a Copt, the father of the American Consul
at Khartoum; and, to my surprise, I saw the vessels full of brigands arrive at Gondokoro, with
the American flag flying at the mast-head.

Gondokoro was a perfect hell. It is utterly ignored by the Egyptian authorities, although well
known to be a colony of cut-throats. Nothing would be easier than to send a few officers and
two hundred men from Khartoum to form a military government, and thus impede the slave-trade;
but a bribe from the traders to the authorities is sufficient to insure an uninterrupted asylum
for any amount of villany. The camps were full of slaves, and the Bari natives assured me that
there were large depots of slaves in the interior belonging to the traders that would be marched
to Gondokoro for shipment to the Soudan a few hours after my departure. I was the great stumbling-block
to the trade, and my presence at Gondokoro was considered as an unwarrantable intrusion upon
a locality sacred to slavery and iniquity. There were about six hundred of the traders' people
at Gondokoro, whose time was passed in drinking, quarrelling, and ill-treating the slaves.
The greater number were in a constant state of intoxication, and when in such a state, it was
their invariable custom to fire off their guns in the first direction prompted by their drunken
instincts; thus, from morning till night, guns were popping in all quarters, and the bullets
humming through the air sometimes close to our ears, and on more than one occasion they struck
up the dust at my feet. Nothing was more probable than a ball through the head by ACCIDENT,
which might have had the beneficial effect of ridding the traders from a spy. A boy was sitting
upon the gunwale of one of the boats, when a bullet suddenly struck him in the head, shattering
the skull to atoms. NO ONE HAD DONE IT. The body fell into the water, and the fragments of
the skull were scattered on the deck. This outbreak was an example of what was to follow.

I made arrangements with a Circassian trader, Koorshid Aga, for the purchase of a few oxen,
and a fat beast was immediately slaughtered for the men. They were shortly in the best humour,
feasting upon masses of flesh cut in strips and laid for a few minutes upon the embers, while
the regular meal was being prepared. They were now almost affectionate, vowing that they would
follow me to the end of the world; while the late ringleader, in spite of his countenance being
rather painted in the late row, declared that no man would be so true as himself, and that
every "arrow should pass through him before it should reach me" in the event of a conflict
with the natives. A very slight knowledge of human nature was required to foresee the future
with such an escort:--if love and duty were dependent upon full bellies, mutiny and disorder
would appear with hard fare. However, by having parade every morning at a certain hour, I endeavoured
to establish a degree of regularity. They did not see the Nile again until they arrived in
N. lat. 3 deg. I therefore copy them verbatim:

"Before you leave this be sure you engage two men, one speaking the Bari or Madi language,
and one speaking Kinyoro, to be your interpreters through the whole journey, for there are
only two distinct families of languages in the country, though of course some dialectic differences,
which can be easily overcome by anybody who knows the family language.  . . . Now, as you are
bent on first going to visit Kamrasi M'Kamma, or King of Unyoro, and then to see as much of
the western countries bordering on the little Luta N'zige, or `dead locust' lake, as possible,
go in company with the ivory hunters across the Asua river to Apuddo eight marches, and look
for game to the east of that village. Two marches further on will bring you to Panyoro, where
there are antelopes in great quantity; and in one march more the Turks' farthest outpost, Faloro,
will be reached, where you had better form a depot, and make a flying trip across the White
Nile to Koshi for the purpose of inquiring what tribes live to west and south of it, especially
of the Wallegga; how the river comes from the south, and where it is joined by the little Luta
N'zige. Inquire also after the country of Chopi, and what difficulties or otherwise you would
have to overcome if you followed up the left bank of the White river to Kamrasi's; because,
if found easy, it would be far nearer and better to reach Kamrasi that way than going through
the desert jungles of Ukidi, as we went. This is the way I should certainly go myself, but
if you do not like the look of it, preserve your information well; and after returning to Faloro,
make Koki per Chougi in two marches, and tell old Chougi you wish to visit his M'Kamma Kamrasi,
for Chougi was appointed Governor-general of that place by Kamrasi to watch the Wakidi who
live between his residence and Chopi, which is the next country you will reach after passing
through the jungles of Ukidi and crossing the Nile below Karuma Falls. Arrived at Chopi, inquire
for the residence of the Katikiro or commander-in-chief, who will show you great respect, give
you cows and pombe, and send messengers on to Kamrasi to acquaint him of your intention to
visit him. This is the richest part of Kamrasi's possessions, and by a little inquiry you will
learn much about the lake. Kamrasi's brother Rionga lives on a river island within one march
of this. They are deadly enemies and always fighting, so if you made a mistake and went to
Rionga's first, as the Turks would wish you to do, all travelling in Unyoro would be cut off.
Tell the Katikiro all your plans frankly, and remark earnestly upon my great displeasure at
Kamrasi's having detained me so long in his country without deigning to see me, else he may
be assured no other white man will ever take the trouble to see him. We came down the river
in boats from Kamrasi's to Chopi, but the boatmen gave much trouble, therefore it would be
better for you to go overland. Kamrasi will most likely send Kidgwiga, an excellent officer,
to escort you to his palace, but if he does not, ask after him; you could not have a better man.

"Arrived at Kamrasi's, insist upon seeing all his fat wives and brothers. Find out all you
can about his pedigree, and ask for leave to follow up the lake from its JUNCTION with the
Nile to Utumbi, and then crossing to its northern bank follow it down to Ullegga and Koshi.
If you are so fortunate as to reach Utumbi, and don't wish to go farther south, inquire well
about Ruanda, the M'Fumbiro mountains, if there is any copper in Ruanda, and whether or not
the people of those countries receive Simbi (the cowrie shell) or any other articles of merchandise
from the west coast, guarding well that no confusion is made with the trade of Karagwe, for
Rumanika sends men to Utumbi ivory-hunting continually. "Remember well that the Wahuma are
most likely Gallas; this question is most interesting, and the more you can gather of their
history, since they crossed the White Nile, the better. Formerly Unyoro, Uganda, and Uddhu
were all united in one vast kingdom called Kittara, but this name is now only applied to certain
portions of that kingdom.

"Nothing is known of the Mountains of the Moon to the westward of Ruanda. In Unyoro the king
will feed you; beyond that I suspect you will have to buy food with beads."

Such was the information most kindly written by Speke, which, in addition to a map drawn by
Captain Grant, and addressed to the Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society, was to be
my guide in the important exploration resolved upon. I am particular in publishing these details,
in order to show the perfect freedom from jealousy of both Captains Speke and Grant. Unfortunately,
in most affairs of life, there is not only fair emulation, but ambition is too often combined
with intense jealousy of others. Had this miserable feeling existed in the minds of Speke and
Grant, they would have returned to England with the sole honour of discovering the source of
the Nile; but in their true devotion to geographical science and especially to the specific
object of their expedition they gave me all information to assist in the completion of the
great problem--the "Nile Sources."

We were all ready to start. Speke and Grant, an their party of twenty-two people, for Egypt,
and I in the opposite direction. At this season there were many boats at Gondokoro belonging
to the traders' parties, among which were four belonging to Mr. Petherick, three of which were
open cargo boats, and one remarkably nice diahbiah, named the "Kathleen," that was waiting
for Mrs. Petherick and her husband, who were supposed to be at their trading station, the Niambara,
about seventy miles west of Gondokoro; but no accounts had been heard of them. On the 20th
February they suddenly arrived from the Niambara, with their people and ivory and were surprised
at seeing so large a party of English in so desolate a spot. It is a curious circumstance,
that although many Europeans had been as far south as Gondokoro, I was the first Englishman
that had ever reached it. We now formed a party of four.

Gondokoro has a poor and sandy soil, so unproductive that corn is in the greatest scarcity
and is always brought from Khartoum by the annual boats for the supply of the traders' people,
who congregate there from the interior, in the months of January and February, to deliver the
ivory for shipment to Khartoum. Corn is seldom or never less than eight times the price at
Khartoum; this is a great drawback to the country, as each trading party that arrives with
ivory from the interior brings with it five or six hundred native porters, all of whom have
to be fed during their stay at Gondokoro, and in many cases, in times of scarcity, they starve.
This famine has given a bad name to the locality, and it is accordingly difficult to procure
porters from the interior, who naturally fear starvation.

I was thus extremely sorry that I was obliged to refuse a supply of corn to Mr. Petherick upon
his application--an act of necessity, but not of ill-nature upon my part, as I was obliged
to leave a certain quantity in depot at Gondokoro, in case I should be driven back from the
interior, in the event of which, without a supply in depot, utter starvation would have been
the fate of my party. Mr. Petherick accordingly despatched one of his boats to the Shir tribe
down the White Nile to purchase corn in exchange for molotes (native hoes). The boat returned
with corn on the 11th of March.

CHAPTER III.

GUN ACCIDENT.

A DAY before the departure of Speke and Grant from Gondokoro, an event occurred which appeared
as a bad omen to the superstitions of my men. I had ordered the diahbiah to be prepared for
sailing: thus, the cargo having been landed and the boat cleared and washed, we were sitting
in the cabin, when a sudden explosion close to the windows startled us from our seats, and
the consternation of a crowd of men who were on the bank, showed that some accident had happened.
I immediately ran out, and found that the servants had laid all my rifles upon a mat upon the
ground, and that one of the men had walked over the guns; his foot striking the hammer of one
of the No. 10 Reilly rifles, had momentarily raised it from the nipple, and an instantaneous
explosion was the consequence. The rifle was loaded for elephants, with seven drachms of powder.
There was a quantity of luggage most fortunately lying before the muzzle, but the effects of
the discharge were extraordinary. The ball struck the steel scabbard of a sword, tearing off
the ring; it then passed obliquely through the stock of a large rifle, and burst through the
shoulder-plate; entering a packing-case of inch-deal, it passed through it and through the
legs of a man who was sitting at some distance, and striking the hip-bone of another man, who
was sitting at some paces beyond, it completely smashed both hips, and fortunately being expended,
it lodged in the body. Had it not been for the first objects happily in the route of the ball,
it would have killed several men, as they were sitting in a crowd exactly before the muzzle.

Dr. Murie, who had accompanied Mr. Petherick, very kindly paid the wounded men every attention,
but he with the smashed hip died in a few hours, apparently without pain.

After the departure of Speke and Grant, I moved my tent to the high ground above the river;
the effluvium from the filth of some thousands of people was disgusting, and fever was prevalent
in all quarters. Both of us were suffering; also Mr. and Mrs. Petherick, and many of my men,
one of whom died. My animals were all healthy, but the donkeys and camels were attacked by
a bird, about the size of a thrush, which caused them great uneasiness. This bird is of a greenish-brown
colour, with a powerful red beak, and excessively strong claws. It is a perfect pest to the
animals, and positively eats them into holes. The original object of the bird in settling upon
the animal is to search for vermin, but it is not contented with the mere insects, and industriously
pecks holes in all parts of the animal, more especially on the back. A wound once established,
adds to the attraction, and the unfortunate animal is so pestered that it has no time to eat.
I was obliged to hire little boys to watch the donkeys, and to drive off these plagues; but
so determined and bold were the birds, that I have constantly seen them run under the body
of the donkey, clinging to the belly with their feet, and thus retreating to the opposite side
of the animal when chased by the watch-boys. In a few days my animals were full of wounds,
excepting the horses, whose long tails were effectual whisks. Although the temperature was
high, 95 degrees Fahr., the wind was frequently cold at about three o'clock in the morning,
and one of my horses, "Priest," that I had lately purchased of the Mission, became paralysed,
and could not rise from the ground. After several days' endeavours to cure him, I was obliged
to shoot him, as the poor animal could not eat. These people had brought down a large quantity
of ivory from the interior, and had therefore a number of porters who would return empty-handed;
I accordingly arranged with Mahommed for fifty porters, who would much relieve the backs of
my animals from Gondokoro to the station at Faloro, about twelve days' march. At Faloro I intended
to leave my heavy baggage in depot, and to proceed direct to Kamrasi's country. I promised
Mahommed that I would use my influence in all new countries that I might discover, to open
a road for his ivory trade, provided that he would agree to conduct it by legitimate purchase,
and I gave him a list of the quality of beads most desirable for Kamrasi's country, according
to the description I had received from Speke.

In the evening, when the day's work was done, Saat was allowed to sit near his mistress; and
he was at times amused and instructed by stories of Europe and Europeans, and anecdotes from
the Bible adapted to his understanding, combined with the first principles of Christianity.
He was very ignorant, notwithstanding his advantages in the Mission, but he possessed the first
grand rudiments of all religion--honesty of purpose. Although a child of only twelve years
old, he was so perfectly trustworthy that, at the period of our arrival at Gondokoro, he was
more to be depended upon than my vakeel, and nothing could occur among my mutinous escort without
the boy's knowledge: thus he reported the intended mutiny of the people when there was no other
means of discovering it, and without Saat I should have had no information of their plots.

My vakeel must have known of this preconcerted arrangement. I now went to the Circassian, Koorshid,
who had always been friendly personally. In an interview with him, I made him understand that
nothing should drive me back to Khartoum, but that, as I was now helpless, I begged him to
give me ten elephant-hunters; that I would pay one-half of their wages, and amuse myself in
hunting and exploring in any direction until the following year, he to take the ivory; by which
time I could receive thirty black soldiers from Khartoum, with whom I should commence my journey
to the lake. I begged him to procure me thirty good blacks at Khartoum, and to bring them with
him to Gondokoro next season, where I arranged to meet him. This he agreed to, and I returned
to my tent delighted at a chance of escaping complete failure, although I thus encountered
a delay of twelve months before I could commence my legitimate voyage. That accomplished, I
was comparatively happy; the disgrace of returning to Khartoum beaten would have been insupportable.

That night I slept well, and we sat under our shady tree by the tent-door at sunrise on the
following morning, drinking our coffee with contentment. Presently, from a distance, I saw
Koorshid, the Circassian, approaching with his partner. Coffee and pipes were ready instanter:
both the boy Saat and Richarn looked upon him as a friend and ally, as it was arranged that
ten of his hunters were to accompany us. Before he sipped his coffee he took me by the hand,
and with great confusion of manner he confessed that he was ashamed to come and visit me. "The
moment you left me yesterday," said he, "I called my vakeel and headman, and ordered them to
select the ten best men of my party to accompany you; but instead of obeying me as usual, they
declared that nothing would induce them to serve under you; that you were a spy who would report
their proceedings to the Government, and that they should all be ruined; that you were not
only a spy on the slave-trade, but that you were a madman, who would lead them into distant
and unknown countries, where both you and your wife and they would all be murdered by the natives;
thus they would mutiny immediately, should you be forced upon them." My last hope was gone.
Of course I thanked Koorshid for his good-will, and explained that I should not think of intruding
myself upon his party, but that at the same time they should not drive me out of the country.
I had abundance of stores and ammunition, and now that my men had deserted me, I had sufficient
corn to supply my small party for twelve months; I had also a quantity of garden-seeds, that
I had brought with me in the event of becoming a prisoner in the country; I should therefore
make a zareeba or camp at Gondokoro, and remain there until I should receive men and supplies
in the following season. I now felt independent, having preserved my depot of corn. I was at
least proof against famine for twelve months. Koorshid endeavoured to persuade me that my party
of only a man and a boy would be certainly insulted and attacked by the insolent natives of
the Bari tribe should I remain alone at Gondokoro after the departure of the traders' parties.
I told him that I preferred the natives to the traders' people, and that I was resolved; I
merely begged him to lend me one of his little slave boys as an interpreter, as I had no means
of communicating with the natives. This he promised to do.

After Koorshid's departure, we sat silently for some minutes, both my wife and I occupied by
the same thoughts.

"Master, go on, and I will follow thee, To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty." He brought
me a large jar of merissa (native beer), and said "he had been anxious to see the white man
who did not steal cattle, neither kidnap slaves, but that I should do no good in that country,
as the traders did not wish me to remain." He told me "that all people were bad, both natives
and traders, and that force was necessary in this country." I tried to discover whether he
had any respect for good and upright conduct. "Yes," he said; "all people say that you are
different to the Turks and traders, but that character will not help you; it is all very good
and very right, but you see your men have all deserted, thus you must go back to Khartoum;
you can do nothing here without plenty of men and guns."

That night I was asleep in my tent, when I was suddenly awoke by loud screams, and upon listening
attentively I distinctly heard the heavy breathing of something in the tent, and I could distinguish
a dark object crouching close to the head of my bed. A slight pull at my sleeve showed me that
my wife also noticed the object, as this was always the signal that she made if anything occured
at night that required vigilance. Possessing a share of sangfroid admirably adapted for African
travel, Mrs. Baker was not a screamer, and never even whispered; in the moment of suspected
danger, a touch of my sleeve was considered a sufficient warning. My hand had quietly drawn
the revolver from under my pillow and noiselessly pointed it within two feet of the dark crouching
object, before I asked, "Who is that?" No answer was given--until, upon repeating the question,
with my finger touching gently upon the trigger ready to fire, a voice replied, "Fadeela."
Never had I been so near to a fatal shot! It was one of the black women of the party, who had
crept into the tent for an asylum. Upon striking a light I found that the woman was streaming
with blood, being cut in the most frightful manner with the coorbatch (whip of hippopotamus'
hide). Hearing the screams continued at some distance from the tent, I found my angels in the
act of flogging two women; two men were holding each woman upon the ground by sitting upon
her legs and neck, while two men with powerful whips operated upon each woman alternately.
Their backs were cut to pieces, and they were literally covered with blood. The brutes had
taken upon themselves the task of thus punishing the women for a breach of discipline in being
absent without leave. Fadeela had escaped before her punishment had been completed, and narrowly
escaped being shot by running to the tent without giving warning. Seizing the coorbatch from
the hands of one of the executioners, I administered them a dose of their own prescription,
to their intense astonishment, as they did not appear conscious of any outrage;--"they were
only slave women." In all such expeditions it is necessary to have women belonging to the party
to grind the corn and prepare the food for the men; I had accordingly hired several from their
proprietors at Khartoum, and these had been maltreated as described. These people were the
most extraordinary that I had seen--wearing beautiful helmets of glass beads, and being remarkably
handsome. The chief of the party, "Adda," came to my tent, accompanied by a few of his men.
He was one of the finest men I ever saw, and he gave me much information concerning his country,
and begged me to pay him a visit. He detested the Turks, but he was obliged to serve them,
as he had received orders from the great chief "Commoro" to collect porters, and to transport
their ivory from Latooka to Gondokoro. I took his portrait, to his great delight, and made
him a variety of presents of copper bracelets, beads, and a red cotton handkerchief; the latter
was most prized, and he insisted upon wearing it upon his person. He had no intention of wearing
his new acquisition for the purpose of decency, but he carefully folded it so as to form a
triangle, and then tied it round his waist, so that the pointed end should hang exactly straight
BEHIND him. So particular was he, that he was quite half an hour in arranging this simple appendage;
and at length he departed with his people, always endeavouring to admire his new finery, by
straining his neck in his attempts to look behind him.

From morning till night natives of all ranks surrounded the tent to ask for presents; these
being generally granted, as it was highly necessary to create a favourable impression. The
vakeel of Chenooda, one Mahommed Her, was in constant communication with my men, which tended
to confirm the reports I had heard from the boy Saat. This Mahommed Her started from Gondokoro
for Latooka. Koorshid's men would start two days later; these were rival parties, both antagonistic,
but occupying the same country, the Latooka; both equally hostile to me, but as the party of
Mahommed Her were Dongolowas, and that of Koorshid were Jalyns and Soodanes, I trusted eventually
to turn their disputes to my own advantage.

Once away from Gondokoro we should be fairly launched on our voyage, the boats would have returned
to Khartoum, thus retreat would be cut off; it only remained to push forward, trusting in Providence
and good fortune. I had great faith in presents. The Arabs are all venal; and, having many
valuable effects with me, I trusted, when the proper moment should arrive, to be able to overcome
all opposition by an open hand. The camels were too heavily loaded, carrying about seven hundred
pounds each. The donkeys were also overloaded, but there was no help for it. Mrs. Baker was
well mounted on my good old Abyssinian hunter "Tetel," ("Hartebeest") and was carrying several
leather bags slung to the pommel, while I was equally loaded on my horse "Filfil;" ("Pepper")
in fact, we were all carrying as much as we could stow.

FIRST NIGHT'S MARCH. All were busy collecting firewood and cutting grass for the donkeys and
horses who were picketed near the fires. The camels were hobbled, and turned to graze upon
the branches of a large mimosa. We were not hungry; the constant anxiety had entirely destroyed
all appetite. A cup of strong black coffee was the greatest luxury, and not requiring a tent
in the clear still night, we were soon asleep on our simple angareps. Before daylight on the
following morning the drum beat; the lazy soldiers, after stretching and yawning, began to
load the animals, and we started at six o'clock. In these climates the rising of the sun is
always dreaded. For about an hour before sunrise the air is deliciously cool and invigorating,
but the sun is regarded as the common enemy. There is, nevertheless, a difficulty in starting
before sunrise-the animals cannot be properly loaded in the darkness, and the operation being
tedious, the cool hour of morning is always lost. While negotiations were pending with the
guide, the trader's party appeared in the distance, and avoiding us, they halted on the opposite
side of the village. I now tried conciliatory measures, and I sent my vakeel to their headman
Ibrahim to talk with him confidentially, and to try to obtain an interpreter in return for
a large present.

My vakeel was in an awkward position--he was afraid of me; also mortally afraid of the government
in Khartoum; and frightened out of his life at his own men, whose conspiracy to desert he was
well aware of. With the cunning of an Arab he started on his mission, accompanied by several
of the men, including the arch-mutineer Bellaal. He shortly returned, saying, "that it was
perfectly impossible to proceed to the interior; that Ibrahim's party were outrageous at my
having followed on their route; that he would neither give an interpreter, nor allow any of
the natives to serve me; and that he would give orders to the great chief of Ellyria to prevent
me from passing through his country." The mountain of Belignan, although not exceeding 1,200
feet, is a fine mass of gneiss and syenite, ornamented in the hollows with fine trees, while
the general appearance of the country at the base was that of a beautiful English park well
timbered and beautified with distant mountains. I had arranged their packs and saddles so well,
that they carried their loads with the greatest comfort. Each animal had an immense pad well
stuffed with goats' hair; this reached from the shoulder to the hip-bones; upon this rested
a simple form of saddle made of two forks of boughs inverted, and fastened together with rails--there
were no nails in these saddles, all the fastenings being secured with thongs of raw hide. The
great pad, projecting far both in front, behind, and also below the side of the saddle, prevented
the loads from chafing the animal. Every donkey carried two large bags made of the hides of
antelopes that I had formerly shot on the frontier of Abyssinia, and these were arranged with
taggles on the one to fit into loops on the other, so that the loading and unloading was exceedingly
simple. The success of an expedition depends mainly upon the perfection of the details, and
where animals are employed for transport, the first consideration should be bestowed upon saddles
and packs. It was rather a bad commencement of a forced march, and the ravine we had crossed
had been a cause of serious delay. Hardly were the animals reloaded and again ready for the
march, when the men remembered that they had only one waterskin full. I had given orders before
the start from Belignan that all should be filled. This is the unexceptional rule in African
travelling--"fill your girbas before starting." Never mind what the natives may tell you concerning
the existence of water on the road; believe nothing; but resolutely determine to fill the girbas
--should you find water, there is no harm done if you are already provided: but nothing can
exceed the improvidence of the people. To avoid the trouble of filling the girbas before starting,
the men will content themselves with "Inshallah (please God), we shall find water on the road,"
and they frequently endure the greatest suffering from sheer idleness in neglecting a supply.

They had in this instance persuaded themselves that the river we had just crossed would not
be dry. Several of them had been employed in this country formerly, and because they had at
one time found water in the sandy bed, they had concluded that it existed still. Accordingly
they now wished to send parties to seek for water; this would entail a further delay, at a
time when every minute was precious, as our fate depended upon reaching and passing through
Ellyria before the arrival of the Turks. I was very anxious, and determined not to allow a
moment's hesitation; I therefore insisted upon an immediate advance, and resolved to march
without stopping throughout the night. The Latooka guides explained by signs that if we marched
all night we should arrive at water on the following morning. This satisfied the men; and we
started.

I dreaded the approach of night. We were now at the foot of a range of high rocky hills, from
which the torrents during the rainy season had torn countless ravines in their passage through
the lower ground; we were marching parallel to the range at the very base, thus we met every
ravine at right angles. Down tumbled a camel; and away rolled his load of bags, pots, pans,
boxes, &c. into the bottom of a ravine in a confused ruin.--Halt! . . and the camel had to
be raised and helped up the opposite bank, while the late avalanche of luggage was carried
piecemeal after him to be again adjusted. To avoid a similar catastrophe the remaining three
camels had to be UNLOADED, and reloaded when safe upon the opposite bank. The operation of
loading a camel with about 700 lbs. of luggage of indescribable variety is at all times tedious;
but no sooner had we crossed one ravine with difficulty than we arrived at another, and the
same fatiguing operation had to be repeated, with frightful loss of time at the moment when
I believed the Turks were following on our path. I dismounted from my horse and loaded him
with sacks, to relieve a camel that was perfectly done--but on we marched. Every one was silent;
the men were too tired to speak; and through the increasing gloom we crept slowly forward Suddenly
another ravine, but not so deep; and we trusted that the camels might cross it without the
necessity of unloading; down went the leading camel, rolling completely over with his load
to the bottom. Now, the boy Saat was the drummer; but being very tired, he had come to the
conclusion that the drum would travel quite as easily upon a camel's back as upon his shoulders;
he had accordingly slung it upon the very camel that had now performed a somersault and solo
on the drum. The musical instrument was picked up in the shape of a flat dish, and existed
no longer as a drum, every note having been squeezed out of it. The donkey is a much more calculating
animal than the camel, the latter being an excessively stupid beast, while the former is remarkably
clever --at least I can answer for the ability of the Egyptian species. The expression "what
an ass!" is in Europe supposed to be slightly insulting, but a comparison with the Egyptian
variety would be a compliment. Accordingly my train of donkeys, being calculating and reasoning
creatures, had from thus night's experience come to the conclusion that the journey was long;
that the road was full of ravines; that the camels who led the way would assuredly tumble into
these ravines unless unloaded; and that as the reloading at each ravine would occupy at least
half an hour, it would be wise for them (the donkeys) to employ that time in going to sleep--therefore,
as it was just as cheap to lie down as to stand, they preferred a recumbent posture, and a
refreshing roll upon the sandy ground. Accordingly, whenever the word "halt" was given, the
clever donkeys thoroughly understood their advantage, and the act of unloading a camel on arrival
at a ravine was a signal sufficient to induce each of twenty-one donkeys to lie down. It was
in vain that the men beat and swore at them to keep them on their legs; the donkeys were determined,
and lie down they would. This obstinacy on their part was serious to the march--every time
that they lay down they shifted their loads; some of the most wilful (sic) persisted in rolling,
and of course upset their packs. There were only seventeen men, and these were engaged in assisting
the camels; thus the twenty-one donkeys had it all their own way; and what added to the confusion
was the sudden cry of hyenas in close proximity, which so frightened the donkeys that they
immediately sprang to their feet, with their packs lying discomfited, entangled among their
legs. Thus, no sooner were the camels reloaded on the other side of the ravine, than all the
donkeys had to undergo the same operation; during which time the camels, however stupid, having
observed the donkeys' "dodge," took the opportunity of lying down also, and necessarily shifted
their loads. The women were therefore ordered to hold the camels, to prevent them from lying
down while the donkeys were being reloaded; but the women were dead tired, as they had been
carrying loads; they themselves laid down, and it being dark, they were not observed until
a tremendous scream was heard, and we found that a camel had lain down on the TOP OF A WOMAN
who had been placed to watch it, but who had herself fallen asleep. The camel was with difficulty
raised, and the woman dragged from beneath. The people had no water; I had a girba full for
Mrs. Baker and myself, which was always slung on my saddle; this precaution I never neglected.

The men were hungry. Before leaving Gondokoro I had ordered a large quantity of kisras (black
pancakes) to be prepared for the march, and they were packed in a basket that had been carried
on a camel; unfortunately Mrs. Baker's pet monkey had been placed upon the same camel, and
he had amused himself during the night's march by feasting and filling his cheeks with the
kisras, and throwing the remainder away when his hunger was satisfied. There literally was
not a kisra remaining in the basket. At length Saat sat up, and after rubbing his eyes for
about ten minutes, he made a fire, and began to boil the coffee; meanwhile I was hard at work
lightening the ship. The great sponging-bath was excessively useful, as it formed a reservoir
out of which all the animals could drink.

While we were thus engaged some natives appeared carrying with them the head of a wild boar
in a horrible state of decomposition, and alive with maggots. On arrival at the drinking-place
they immediately lighted a fire, and proceeded to cook their savoury pork by placing it in
the flames. The skull becoming too hot for the inmates, crowds of maggots rushed pele-mele
from the ears and nostrils like people escaping from the doors of a theatre on fire. The natives
merely tapped the skull with a stick to assist in their exit, and proceeded with their cooking
until completed; after which they ate the whole, and sucked the bones. However putrid meat
may be, it does not appear to affect the health of these people.

My animals requiring rest and food, I was obliged to wait unwillingly until 4.30 P.M. The natives
having finished their boar's head, offered to join us; and accordingly we rode on a considerable
distance ahead of our people with our active guides, while the caravan followed slowly behind
us. After ascending for about a mile through jungle, we suddenly emerged upon an eminence,
and looked down upon the valley of Tollogo. This was extremely picturesque. An abrupt wall
of grey granite rose on the east side of the valley to a height of about a thousand feet: from
this perpendicular wall huge blocks had fallen, strewing the base with a confused mass of granite
lumps ten to forty feet in diameter; and among these natural fortresses of disjointed masses
were numerous villages. The bottom of the valley was a meadow, in which grew several enormous
fig trees by the side of a sluggish, and in some places stagnant, brook. The valley was not
more than half a mile wide, and was also walled in by mountains on the west, having the appearance
of a vast street.

We were now about a mile ahead of our party; but accompanied by our two Latooka guides, and
upon descending to the valley and crossing a deep gully, we soon arrived beneath a large fig
tree at the extremity of the vale. No sooner was our presence observed than crowds of natives
issued from the numerous villages among the rocks, and surrounded us. They were all armed with
bows and arrows and lances, and were very excited at seeing the horses, which to them were
unknown animals. Dismounting, I fastened the horses to a bush, and we sat down on the grass
under a tree.

There were five or six hundred natives pressing round us. They were excessively noisy, hallooing
to us as though we were deaf, simply because we did not understand them. Finding that they
were pressing rudely around us, I made signs to them to stand off; when at that moment a curiously
ugly, short, humped-back fellow came forward and addressed me in broken Arabic. I was delighted
to find an interpreter, and requesting him to tell the crowd to stand back, I inquired for
their chief. The humpback spoke very little Arabic, nor did the crowd appear to heed him, but
they immediately stole a spear that one of my Latooka guides had placed against the tree under
which we were sitting. It was getting rather unpleasant; but having my revolver and a double-barrelled
rifle in my hands, there was no fear of their being stolen.

In reply to a question to the humpback, he asked me "Who I was?" I explained that I was a traveller.
"You want ivory?" he said. "No," I answered, "it is of no use to me." "Ah, you want slaves!"
he replied. "Neither do I want slaves," I answered. This was followed by a burst of laughter
from the crowd, and the humpback continued his examination. "Have you got plenty of cows?"
"Not one; but plenty of beads and copper." "Plenty? Where are they?" "Not far off; they will
be here presently with my men;" and I pointed to the direction from which they would arrive.
"What countryman are you?" "An Englishman." He had never heard of such people. "You are a Turk?"
"All right," I replied; "I am anything you like." "And that is your son?" (pointing at Mrs.
Baker.) "No, she is my wife." "Your wife! What a lie! He is a boy." "Not a bit of it," I replied;
"she is my wife, who has come with me to see the women of this country." "What a lie!" he again
politely re joined in the one expressive Arabic word, "Katab." After this charmingly frank
conversation he addressed the crowd, explaining, I suppose, that I was endeavouring to pass
off a boy for a woman. Mrs. Baker was dressed similarly to myself, in a pair of loose trowsers
and gaiters, with a blouse and belt--the only difference being that she wore long sleeves,
while my arms were bare from a few inches below the shoulder. I always kept my arms bare, as
being cooler than if covered.

The curiosity of the crowd was becoming impertinent, when at an opportune moment the chief
appeared. To my astonishment I recognised him as a man who had often visited me at Gondokoro,
to whom I had given many presents without knowing his position.

In a few moments he drove away the crowd, screaming and gesticulating at there as though greatly
insulted; re serving the humpback as interpreter, he apologized for the rudeness of his people.
Just at this instant I perceived, in the distance, the English flag leading the caravan of
camels and donkeys from the hillside into the valley, and my people and baggage shortly arrived.
The chief now brought me a large pumpkin-shell containing about a gallon of merissa, or native
beer, which was most refreshing. He also brought a gourd-bottle full of honey, and an elephant's
tusk; the latter I declined, as ivory was not required.

We were now within six miles of Ellyria, and by means of the humpback I explained to Tombe,
the chief, that we wished to start the first thing in the morning, and that I would engage
the humpback as interpreter. This was agreed upon, and I now had hopes of getting through Ellyria
before the arrival of the Turks. My caravan having arrived, the interest first bestowed upon
the horses, as being a new kind of animal, was now transferred to the camels. The natives crowded
round them, exclaiming, "that they were the giraffes of our country." They were amazed at the
loads that they carried, and many assisted in unloading.

I noticed, however, that they stuck their fingers through the baskets to investigate the contents;
and when they perceived twenty baskets full of beads, and many of copper bracelets--the jingling
of which betrayed the contents--they became rather too eager in lending a helping hand; therefore
I told the chief to order his men to retire while I opened one bag of beads to give him a present.
I had a bag always in reserve that contained a variety of beads and bracelets, which obviated
the necessity of opening one of the large baskets on the road. I accordingly made the chief
happy, and also gave a present to the humpback. The crowd now discovered an object of fresh
interest, and a sudden rush was made to the monkey, which, being one of the red variety from
Abyssinia, was quite unknown to them. The monkey, being far more civilized than these naked
savages, did not at all enjoy their society; and attacking the utterly unprotected calves of
their legs, "Wallady" soon kept his admirers at a distance, and amused himself by making insulting
grimaces, which kept the crowd in a roar of laughter. I often found this monkey of great use
in diverting the attention of the savages from myself. He was also a guarantee of my peaceful
intentions, as no one intending hostility would travel about with a monkey as one of the party.
He was so tame and affectionate to both of us that he was quite unhappy if out of sight of
his mistress: but he frequently took rough liberties with the blacks, for whom he had so great
an aversion and contempt that he would have got into sad trouble at Exeter Hall. "Wallady"
had no idea of a naked savage being "a man and a brother."

That night we slept soundly, both men and beasts being thoroughly fatigued. The natives seemed
to be aware of this, and a man was caught in the act of stealing copper bracelets from a basket.
He had crept like a cat upon hands and knees to the spot where the luggage was piled, and the
sleepy sentry bad not observed him.

There was no drum-call on the following morning, that useful instrument having been utterly
smashed by the camel; but I woke the men early, and told them to be most careful in arranging
the loads securely, as we had to thread the rocky pass between Tollogo and Ellyria. I felt
sure that the Turks could not be far behind us, and I looked forward with anxiety to getting
through the pass before them.

The natives of both Tollogo and Ellyria are the same in appearance and language as the Bari;
they are very brutal in manner, and they collected in large crowds on our departure, with by
no means a friendly aspect. Many of them ran on ahead under the base of the rocks, apparently
to give notice at Ellyria of our arrival. I had three men as an advance guard,--five or six
in the rear,--while the remainder drove the animals. Mrs. Baker and I rode on horseback at
the head of the party. On arriving at the extremity of the narrow valley we had to thread our
way through the difficult pass. The mountain of Ellyria, between two and three thousand feet
high, rose abruptly on our left, while the base was entirely choked with enormous fragments
of grey granite that, having fallen from the face of the mountain, had completely blocked the
pass. Even the horses had great difficulty in threading their way through narrow alleys formed
of opposing blocks, and it appeared impossible for loaded camels to proceed. The path was not
only thus obstructed, but was broken by excessively deep ravines formed by the torrents that
during the rains tore everything before them in their impetuous descent from the mountains.
To increase the difficulties of the pass many trees and bushes were growing from the interstices
of the rocks; thus in places where the long legs of the camels could have cleared a narrow
cleft, the loads became jammed between the trees. These trees were for the most part intensely
hard wood, a species of lignum vitae, called by the Arabs "babanoose," and were quite proof
against our axes. We were now in the very gorge of that chain. Below us, in the valley, I observed
some prodigious trees growing close to a Hor (ravine), in which was running water, and the
sides of the valley under the mountains being as usual a mass of debris of huge detached rocks,
were thronged with villages, all strongly fortified with thick bamboo palisades. The valley
of Ellyria was a lovely spot in the very bosom of the mountains. Close to where we sat were
the great masses of rock that had fallen from the cliffs, and upon examination I found them
to be the finest quality of grey granite, the feldspar being in masses several inches square
and as hard as a flint. There was no scaling upon the surface, as is common in granite rocks.

No sooner had the trader's party arrived than crowds of natives issued from the palisaded villages
on the mountain; and descending to the plain, they mingled with the general confusion. The
baggage was piled beneath a tree, and a sentry placed on guard. I could not help thinking how
completely they were at the mercy of the natives at that moment, had they chosen to attack
them; the trader's party were lying under their untanned ox-hides with their empty guns.

Each of my men was provided with a piece of mackintosh, with which his gunlocks were secured.
We lay upon an angarep covered with a bull's hide until the storm was over. The thunder was
magnificent, exploding on the peak of the mountain exactly above us, and in the course of a
quarter of an hour torrents were rushing down the ravines among the rocks, the effects of the
violent storm that had passed away as rapidly as it had arrived.

No sooner had it ceased than the throng again appeared. Once more the chief, Legge', was before
us begging for all that we had. Although the natives asked for beads, they would give nothing
in exchange, and we could purchase nothing for any article except molotes. These iron hoes
are made principally in this country: thus it appeared strange that they should demand them.
Legge does a large business with these hoes, sending them into the Berri and Galla countries
to the east, with various beads and copper bracelets, to purchase ivory. Although there are
very few elephants in the neighbourhood of Ellyria, there is an immense amount of ivory, as
the chief is so great a trader that he accumulates it to exchange with the Turks for cattle.
Although he sells it so dear that he demands twenty cows for a large tusk, it is a convenient
station for the traders, as, being near to Gondokoro, there is very little trouble in delivering
the ivory on shipboard.

Although I had presented Legge' with what he desired, he would give nothing in return, neither
would he sell either goats or fowls; in fact, no provision was procurable except honey. I purchased
about eight pounds of this luxury for a hoe. My men were starving, and I was obliged to serve
them out rice from my sacred stock, as I had nothing else to give them. This they boiled and
mixed with honey, and they were shortly sitting round an immense circular bowl of this rarity,
enjoying themselves thoroughly, but nevertheless grumbling as usual. In the coolest manner
possible the great and greedy chief, Legge, who had refused to give or even to sell anything
to keep us from starving, no sooner saw the men at their novel repast than he sat down among
them and almost choked himself by cramming handfuls of the hot rice and honey into his mouth,
which yawned like that of an old hippopotamus. The men did not at all approve of this assistance,
but as it is the height of bad manners in Arab etiquette to repel a self-invited guest from
the general meal, he was not interfered with, and was thus enabled to swallow the share of
about three persons.

Legge, although worse than the rest of his tribe, had a similar formation of head. The Bari
and those Tollogo and Ellyria have generally bullet-shaped heads, low foreheads, skulls heavy
behind the ears and above the nape of the neck: altogether their appearance is excessively
brutal, and they are armed with bows six feet long and arrows horribly barbed and poisoned.

CHAPTER V.

LEAVE ELLYRIA.

We started on the 30th March, at 7.30 A.M., and opened from the valley of Ellyria upon a perfectly
flat country interspersed with trees. After an hour's march we halted at a small stream of
bad water. We had kisras and honey for breakfast; but, for several days not having tasted meat,
I took the rifle for a stroll through the forest in search of game. After an hour's ramble
I returned without having fired a shot. I had come upon fresh tracks of Tetel (hartebeest)
and guinea-fowl, but they had evidently come down to the stream to drink, and had wandered
back into the interior. If game was scarce, fruit was plentiful--both Richarn and I were loaded
with a species of yellow plum as large as an egg; these grew in prodigious numbers upon fine
forest trees, beneath which the ground was yellow with the quantities that had fallen from
the boughs; these were remarkably sweet, and yet acid, with much juice, and a very delicious
flavour.

At 11:25 we again started for a long march, our course being east.

The traders march in good form; one flag leads the party, guarded by eight or ten men, while
a native carries a box of five hundred cartridges for their use in case of an attack. The porters
and baggage follow in single file, soldiers being at intervals to prevent them from running
away; in which case the runner is invariably fired at The supply of ammunition is in the centre,
carried generally by about fifteen natives, and strongly escorted by guards. The rear of the
party is closed by another flag behind which no straggler is permitted. The rear flag is also
guarded by six or eight men, with a box of spare ammunition. With these arrangements the party
is always ready to support an attack.

Ibrahim, my new ally, was now riding in front of the line, carrying on his saddle before him
a pretty little girl, his daughter, a child of a year and a half old; her mother, a remarkably
pretty Bari girl, one of his numerous wives, was riding behind him on an ox. We soon got into
conversation;--a few pieces of sugar given to the child and mother by Mrs. Baker was a sweet
commencement; and Ibrahim then told me to beware of my own men, as he knew they did not intend
to remain with me; that they were a different tribe from his men, and they would join Chenooda's
people and desert me on our arrival at their station in Latooka. This was a corroboration of
all I had heard previous to leaving Gondokoro, therefore I had the promised mutiny in perspective.
I had noticed that my men were even more sullen than usual since I had joined Ibrahim; however,
I succeeded in convincing him that he would benefit so decidedly by an alliance with me, that
he now frankly told me that I should receive no opposition from his party. So far all had prospered
beyond my most sanguine expectations. We were fairly launched upon our voyage, and now that
we were in the wild interior, I determined to crush the mutiny with an iron hand should the
rascals attempt to carry their murderous threats into execution. Two or three of the men appeared
willing, but the original ringleader, "Bellaal," would literally do nothing, not even assisting
at loading the animals; but swaggering about with the greatest insolence.

After a fatiguing march of eight hours and ten minutes through a perfectly flat country interspersed
with trees, we halted at a little well of excessively bad water at 7.35 P.M. The horses were
so much in advance that the main party did not arrive until 11 P.M. completely fatigued. The
night being fine, we slept on a hillock of sand a few yards from the well, rejoiced to be away
from the mosquitoes of Gondokoro.

On the following morning we started at sunrise, and in two hours' fast marching we arrived
at the Kanieti river Although there had been no rain, the stream was very rapid and up to the
girths of the horses at the ford. The banks were very abrupt and about fifteen feet deep, the
bed between forty and fifty yards wide; thus a considerable volume of water is carried down
to the river Sobat by this river during the rains. The whole drainage of the country, tends
to the east, and accordingly flows into the Sobat.

The range of mountains running south from Ellyria is the watershed between the east and west
drainage; the Sobat receiving it on the one hand, and the White Nile on the other, while the
Nile eventually receives the entire flow by the Sobat, as previously mentioned, in lat. 9 degrees
22 minutes. Having scrambled up the steep bank of the Kanieti river, we crossed a large field
of dhurra, and arrived at the village of Wakkala. The village, or town, is composed of about
seven hundred houses, the whole being most strongly protected by a system of palisades formed
of "babanoose," the hard iron wood of the country. Not only is it thus fortified, but the palisades
are also protected by a hedge of impervious thorns that grow to a height of about twenty feet.
The entrance to this fort is a curious archway, about ten feet deep, formed of the iron-wood
palisades, with a sharp turn to the right and left forming a zigzag. The whole of the village
thus fenced is situated in the midst of a splendid forest of large timber. The inhabitants
of Wakkala are the same as the Ellyria, but governed by an independent chief. They are great
hunters; and as we arrived I saw several parties returning from the forest with portions of
wild boar and buffalo.

From Gondokoro to this spot I had not seen a single head of game, but the immediate neighbourhood
of Wakkala was literally trodden down by the feet of elephants, giraffes, buffaloes, rhinoceros,
and varieties of large antelopes.

Having examined the village, I ordered my people to unload the animals in the forest about
a quarter of a mile from the entrance. The soil was extremely rich, and the ground being shaded
from the scorching rays of the sun by the large trees, there was abundance of fine grass, which
accounted for the presence of the game: good pasturage, extensive forests, and a plentiful
supply of water insuring the supply of wild animals.

In a few minutes my horses and donkeys were luxuriating on the rich herbage, not having tasted
grass for some days; the camels revelled in the foliage of the dark green mimosas; and the
men, having found on the march a buffalo that had been caught in a trap and there killed by
a lion, obtained some meat, and the whole party were feeding. We had formed a kind of arbour
by hacking out with a sabre a delightful shady nook in the midst of a dense mass of creepers,
and there we feasted upon a couple of roast fowls that we had procured from the natives for
glass beads. This was the first meat we had tasted since we had quitted Gondokoro.

At 5.10 P.M. we left this delightful spot, and marched. Emerging from the forest we broke upon
a beautiful plain of fine low grass, bounded on our right hand by jungle. This being the cool
hour of evening, the plain was alive with game, including buffaloes, zebras, and many varieties
of large antelopes. It was a most enlivening sight to see them scouring over the plain as we
advanced; but our large party, and three red flags streaming in the breeze, effectually prevented
us from getting sufficiently near for a shot.

I was sorely tempted to remain in this Elysium for a few days' shooting, but the importance
of an advance was too great to permit of any thoughts of amusement; thus, I could only indulge
a sportsman's feelings by feasting my eyes upon the beautiful herds before me.

At a quarter past seven we bivouacked in thick jungle. In the middle of the night, the watch-fires
still blazing, I was awoke by a great noise, and upon arrival at the spot I found a number
of the Turks with firebrands, searching upon the ground, which was literally strewed with beads
and copper bracelets. The Latooka porters had broken open the bags and baskets containing many
hundredweight of these objects, and, loading themselves, had intended to desert with their
stolen prize; but the sentries having discovered them, they were seized by the soldiers.

There fellows, the Latookas, had exhibited the folly of monkeys in so rashly breaking open
the packages while the sentries were on guard. Several who had been caught in the act were
now pinioned by the Turks, and were immediately condemned to be shot; while others were held
down upon the ground and well chastised with the coorbatch I begged that the punishment of
death might be commuted for a good flogging; at first I implored in vain, until I suggested,
that if the porters were shot, there would be no one to carry their loads:--this practical
argument saved them, and after receiving a severe thrashing, their arms were pinioned, and
a guard set over them until the morning.

We marched at 5.25 on the following morning. For several hours the path led through thick jungle
in which we occasionally caught glimpses of antelopes. At length quitting the jungle we arrived
at an open marshy plain, upon which I discerned at a great distance a number of antelopes.
Having nothing to eat I determined to stalk them, as I heard from the people that we were not
far from our halting-place for the day.

Accordingly I left Mrs. Baker with my horse and a spare rifle to wait, while the party marched
straight on; I intended to make a circuit through the jungle and to wait for the entrance of
the herd, which she was to drive, by simply riding through the plain and leading my horse;
she was to bring the horse to me should I fire a shot. After walking for about a mile in the
jungle parallel with the plain, I saw the herd of about two hundred Tetel going at full gallop
from the open ground into the jungle, having been alarmed by the red bags and the Turks, who
had crossed over the marsh. So shy were these antelopes that there was no possibility of stalking
them. I noticed however that there were several waterbucks in the very centre of the marsh,
and that two or three trees afforded the possibility of a stalk. Having the wind all right,
I succeeded in getting to a tree within about two hundred and fifty yards of the largest buck,
and lying down in a dry trench that in the wet season formed a brook, I crept along the bottom
until I reached a tall tuft of grass that was to be my last point of cover. Just as I raised
myself slowly from the trench I found the buck watching me most attentively. A steady shot
with my little No. 24 rifle took no effect-it was too high:-the buck did not even notice the
shot, which was, I suppose, the first he had ever heard;-he was standing exactly facing me;
this is at all tines an unpleasant position for a shot. Seeing that he did not seem disposed
to move, I reloaded without firing my left-hand barrel. I now allowed for the high range of
the last shot; a moment after the report he sprang into the air, then fell upon his knees and
galloped off on three legs; one of the fore-legs being broken. I had heard the sharp sound
of the bullet, but the shot was not very satisfactory. Turning to look for my horse, I saw
Mrs. Baker galloping over the plain towards me, leading Filfil, while Richard ran behind at
his best speed.

Upon her arrival I mounted Filfil, who was a fast horse, and with my little No. 24 rifle in
my hand I rode slowly towards the wounded waterbuck, who was now standing watching us at about
a quarter of a mile distant. However, before I had decreased my distance by a hundred yards
he started off at full gallop. Putting Filfil into a canter I increased the pace until I found
that I must press him at full speed, as the waterbuck, although on only three legs, had the
best of it. The ground was rough, having been marshy and trodden into ruts by the game, but
now dried by the sun;-bad for both horse and antelope, but especially for the former: however,
after a race of about a mile I found myself gaining so rapidly that in a few moments I was
riding on his left flank within three yards of him, and holding the rifle with one hand like
a pistol I shot him dead through the shoulder. This little double rifle is an exceedingly handy
weapon;-it was made for me about nine years ago by Thomas Fletcher, gunmaker of Gloucester,
and is of most perfect workmanship. I have shot with it most kinds of large game; although
the bore is so small as No. 24, I have bagged with it rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lions, buffaloes,
and all the heavy game except elephants and giraffes; upon the latter I have never happened
to try it. Weighing only eight pounds and three-quarters it is most convenient to carry on
horseback, and although I have had frequent accidents through my horse falling in full gallop,
the stock is perfectly sound to this day. The best proof of thorough honest workmanship is,
that in many years of hard work it has never been out of order, nor has it ever been in a gunmaker's
hands.

The operation of cutting the waterbuck into four quarters, and then stringing them on to a
strip of its own hide, was quickly performed, and with Richarn's assistance I slung it across
my saddle, and led my horse, thus heavily laden, towards the path. After some difficulty in
crossing muddy hollows and gullies in the otherwise dried marsh, we at length succeeded in
finding the tracks of the party that had gone on ahead.

We had been steering from Ellyria due east towards the high peak of "Gebel Lafeet," that rose
exactly above one of the principal towns of Latooka. With this fine beacon now apparently just
before us, we had no difficulty in finding our way. The country was now more open, and the
ground sandy and interspersed with the hegleek trees, which gave it the appearance of a vast
orchard of large pear trees. The "hegleek" is peculiarly rich in potash; so much so that the
ashes of the burnt wood will blister the tongue. It bears a fruit about the size and shape
of a date;-this is very sweet and aromatic in flavour, and is also so rich in potash that it
is used as a substitute for soap. The ox was slaughtered, and the people preferring beef to
antelope venison, I gave the flesh of the waterbuck to the Latooka porters belonging to Ibrahim's
party. Thus all teeth were busy.

The town was Latome, one of the principal places in the Latooka country, and was strongly palisaded,
like the town of Wakkala. I did not go through the entrance, but contented myself with resting
under my tree and writing up the journal from my note-book. Before we had been there many hours
the two parties of Ibrahim and Mahommed Her were engaged in a hot contention. Mahommed Her
declared that no one had a right of way through that country, which belonged to him according
to the customs of the White Nile trade; that he would not permit the party of Ibrahim to proceed,
and that, should they persist in their march, he would resist them by force.

Words grew high;-Ibrahim was not afraid of force, as he had a hundred and forty men against
Mahommed Her's hundred and five;-insults and abuse were liberally exchanged, while the natives
thronged around, enjoying the fun, until at last Mahommed Her's temper becoming outrageous,
he was seized by the throat by Sulieman, a powerful choush or sergeant of Ibrahim's party,
and hurled away from the select society who claimed the right of road. Great confusion arose,
and both parties prepared for a fight, which after the usual bluster died away to nothing.
However, I noticed that my men most unmistakeably took the part of Mahommed Her against Ibrahim;
they belonging to his tribe.

The evening arrived, and my vakeel, with his usual cunning, came to ask me "whether I intended
to start to-morrow?"

The country was now lovely; we were at the base of the mountain "Lafeet," which rose abruptly
on our left to the height of about 3,000 feet, the highest peak of the eastern chain that formed
the broad valley of Latooka. The course of the valley was from S.E. to N.W.; about forty miles
long by eighteen miles wide; the flat bottom was diversified by woods, thick jungles, open
plains, and the ever-present hegleek trees, which in some places gave the appearance of forest.
The south side of the valley was bounded by a high range of mountains, rising to six or seven
thousand feet above the general level of Latooka, while the extreme end was almost blocked
by a noble but isolated mountain of about 5,000 feet.

Our path being at the foot of the Lafeet chain, the ground was sandy but firm, being composed
of disintegrated portions of the granite rocks that had washed down from the mountains, and
we rode quickly along a natural road, equal to the best highway in England. We soon overtook
Ibrahim and his party, and recounted the affair of mutiny.

The long string of porters now closed together as we were approaching a rebel town of Latooka
that was hostile to both Turks and others. Suddenly one of the native porters threw down his
load and bolted over the open ground towards the village at full speed. The fellow bounded
along like an antelope, and was immediately pursued by half a dozen Turks. "Shoot him! shoot
him! knock him over!" was shouted from the main body; and twenty guns were immediately pointed
at the fugitive, who distanced his pursuers as a horse would outstrip an ox.

To save the man I gave chase on Filfil, putting myself in the line between him and the guns,
to prevent them from firing. After a short course I overtook him, but he still continued running,
and upon my closing with him he threw his spear on the ground, but still ran. Not being able
to speak his language, I made signs that he should hold the mane of my horse, and that no one
should hurt him. He at once clutched with both hands the horse's mane, and pushed himself almost
under my knee in his efforts to keep close to me for protection. The Turks arrived breathless,
and the native appeared as terrified as a hare at the moment it is seized by the greyhound.
"Shoot him!" they one and all shouted. "Well done, `Hawaga!' (Sir) you caught him beautifully!
We never could have caught him without your horse. Pull him out! we'll shoot him as an example
to the others!" I explained that he was my man, and belonged to me as I had caught him, therefore
I could not allow him to be shot. "Then we'll give him five hundred with the coorbatch!" they
cried. Even this generous offer I declined, and I insisted that he should accompany me direct
to Ibrahim, into whose hands I should myself deliver him. Accordingly, still clutching to my
horse's mane, the captive followed, and was received by the main body on arrival with shouts
of derision.

I told Ibrahim that he must forgive him this time, if he promised to carry his load to the
end of the journey. He immediately picked up his heavy burden as though it were a feather,
and balancing it on his head, stepped along in the line of porters as though nothing had occurred.

Trifling as this incident may appear, it was of much service to me, as it served as an introduction
to both Turks and natives. I heard the former conversing together, praising the speed of the
horse, and congratulating themselves on the impossibility of the porters escaping now that
they had seen how quickly they could be overtaken. Another remarked, "Wah Illahi, I should
not like to chase a nigger so closely while a lance was in his hand. I expected he would turn
sharp round and throw it through the Hawaga." Thus I was now looked upon by the Turks as an
ALLY, and at the same time I was regarded by the Latookas as their friend for having saved
their man; and they grinned their approbation in the most unmistakeable manner as I rode past
their line, shouting, " Morrte, morrte mattat!" (welcome, welcome, chief!) On arriving at a
large town named Kattaga, we rested under the shade of an immense tamarind tree. There was
no sign of my men and animals, and I began to think that something had gone wrong. For two
hours we waited for their arrival. Ascending some rising ground, I at length observed my caravan
approaching in the distance, and every one of my men, except Richarn, mounted upon my donkeys,
although the poor animals were already carrying loads of 150 lbs. each. Upon observing me,
the dismount was sudden and general. On their arrival I found that three of the men had deserted,
including "Bellaal," and had joined the party of Mahommed Her, taking with them my guns and
ammunition. Two had previously joined that party; thus five of my men were now engaged by those
slave-hunters, and I little doubted that my remaining men would abscond likewise.

On the arrival of my vakeel he told me, in face of the men, that so many had deserted, and
that the others had refused to assist him in taking the guns from them; thus my arms and ammunition
had been forcibly stolen. Continuing the march along the same style of country we shortly came
in view of Tarrangolle, the chief town of Latooka, at which point was the station of Ibrahim.
We had marched thirteen miles from Latome, the station of Mahommed Her, at which place my men
had deserted, and we were now 101 miles from Gondokoro by dead reckoning.

There were some superb trees situated close to the town, under which we camped until the natives
could prepare a hut for our reception. Crowds of people now surrounded us, amazed at the two
great objects of interest--the camels, and a white woman. They did not think me very peculiar,
as I was nearly as brown as an Arab.

The Latookas are the finest savages I have ever seen. I measured a number of them as they happened
to enter my tent, and allowing two inches for the thickness of their felt helmets, the average
height was 5 ft. 11 1/2 in. Not only are they tall, but they possess a wonderful muscular development,
having beautifully proportioned legs and arms; and although extremely powerful, they are never
fleshy or corpulent. The formation of head and general physiognomy is totally different from
all other tribes that I have met with in the neighbourhood of the White Nile. They have high
foreheads, large eyes, rather high cheekbones, mouths not very large, well-shaped, and the
lips rather full. They all have a remarkably pleasing cast of countenance, and are a great
contrast to the other tribes in civility of manner. Altogether their appearance denotes a Galla
origin, and it is most probable that, at some former period, an invasion by the Gallas of this
country originated the settlement of the Latookas.

One of the principal channels, if not the main stream of the river Sobat, is only four days'
march or fifty miles east of Latooka, and is known to the natives as the Chol. The east bank
of that stream is occupied by the Gallas, who have frequently invaded the Latooka country.
There is an interesting circumstance connected with these invasions, that the Gallas were invariably
mounted upon MULES. Neither horse, camel, nor other beast of burden is known to any of the
White Nile tribes, therefore the existence of mules on the east bank of the Chol is a distinguishing
feature. Both Abyssinia and the Galla being renowned for a fine breed of mules, affords good
circumstantial evidence that the Akkara tribe of the Chol are true Gallas, and that the Latookas
may be derived from a similar origin by settlements after conquest.

The great chief of the Latookas, "Moy," assured me that his people could not withstand the
cavalry of the Akkara, although they were superior to all other tribes on foot.

I have heard the traders of Khartoum pretend that they can distinguish the tribes of the White
Nile by their individual type. I must confess my inability on this point. In vain I have attempted
to trace an actual difference. To me the only distinguishing mark between the tribes bordering
the White River is a peculiarity in either dressing the hair, or in ornament. The difference
of general appearance caused by a variety of hairdressing is most perplexing, and is apt to
mislead a traveller who is only a superficial observer; but from the commencement of the negro
tribes in N. lat. 12 degrees to Ellyria in lat. 4 degrees 30 minutes I have found no specific
difference in the people. The actual change takes place suddenly on arrival in Latooka, and
this is accounted for by an admixture with the Gallas.

The Latookas are a fine, frank, and warlike race. Far from being the morose set of savages
that I had hitherto seen, they were excessively merry, and always ready for either a laugh
or a fight. The town of Tarrangolle contained about three thousand houses, and was not only
surrounded by iron-wood palisades, but every house was individually fortified by a little stockaded
courtyard. The cattle were kept in large kraals in various parts of the town, and were most
carefully attended to, fires being lit every night to protect them from flies; and high platforms,
in three tiers, were erected in many places, upon which sentinels watched both day and night
to give the alarm in case of danger. The cattle are the wealth of the country, and so rich
are the Latookas in oxen, that ten or twelve thousand head are housed in every large town;
thus the natives are ever on the watch, fearing the attacks of the adjacent tribes.

The houses of the Latookas are generally bell-shaped, while others are precisely like huge
candle-extinguishers, about twenty-five feet high. The roofs are neatly thatched, at an angle
of about 75 degrees, resting upon a circular wall about four feet high; thus the roof forms
a cap descending to within two feet and a half of the ground. The doorway is only two feet
and two inches high, thus an entrance must be effected upon all-fours. The interior is remarkably
clean, but dark, as the architects have no idea of windows. It is a curious fact that the circular
form of but is the only style of architecture adopted among all the tribes of Central Africa,
and also among the Arabs of Upper Egypt; and that, although these differ more or less in the
form of the roof, no tribe has ever yet sufficiently advanced to construct a window. The town
of Tarrangolle is arranged with several entrances, in the shape of low archways through the
palisades; these are closed at night by large branches of the hooked thorn of the kittur bush
(a species of mimosa). The main street is broad, but all others are studiously arranged to
admit of only one cow, in single file, between high stockades; thus, in the event of an attack,
these narrow passages could be easily defended, and it would be impossible to drive off their
vast herds of cattle unless by the main street. The large cattle kraals are accordingly arranged
in various quarters in connexion with the great road, and the entrance of each kraal is a small
archway in the strong iron-wood fence sufficiently wide to admit one ox at a time.

Suspended from the arch is a bell, formed of the shell of the Dolape palm-nut, against which
every animal must strike either its horns or back, on entrance.

Every tinkle of the bell announces the passage of an ox into the kraal, and they are thus counted
every evening when brought home from pasture. I observed that they were not particular in regarding
the spot as sacred, as signs of nuisances were present even upon the bones, that in civilized
countries would have been regarded as an insult.

The Latookas have neither bows nor arrows, their weapons consisting of the lance, a powerful
iron-headed mace, a long-bladed knife or sword, and an ugly iron bracelet, armed with knife-blades
about four inches long by half an inch broad: the latter is used to strike with if disarmed,
and to tear with when wrestling with an enemy. Their shields are either of buffaloes' hide
or of giraffes', the latter being highly prized as excessively tough although light, and thus
combining the two requisite qualities of a good shield; they are usually about four feet six
inches long by two feet wide, and are the largest I have seen. Altogether, everything in Latooka
looks like fighting. Their superior strength to that of other tribes may be seen in the size
of their water jars, which are nearly double as large as any I have seen elsewhere, containing
about ten gallons; in these they fetch water from the stream about a mile distant from the
town. The only really pretty women that I saw in Latooka were Bokke, the wife of the chief,
and her daughter; they were fac-similes of each other, the latter having the advantage of being
the second edition. Both women and men were extremely eager for beads of all kinds, the most
valuable being the red and blue porcelain for helmets, and the large opalescent bead, the size
of a child's marble.

Accordingly he departed, and shortly we were honoured by a visit.

I cannot understand for what reason all the White Nile tribes extract the four front teeth
of the lower jaw. Were the meat of the country tender, the loss of teeth might be a trifle;
but I have usually found that even a good set of grinders are sometimes puzzled to go through
the operation needful to a Latooka beefsteak. I had now a vivid exemplification of this theory.

One day, at about 3 P.M., the men of Ibrahim started upon some mysterious errand, but returned
equally mysterious at about midnight. On the following morning I heard that they had intended
to attack some place upon the mountains, but they had heard that it was too powerful; and as
"discretion is the better part of valour," they had returned.

On the day following I heard that there had been some disaster, and that the whole of Mahommed
Her's party had been massacred. The natives seemed very excited, and messenger succeeded messenger,
all confirming the account that Mahommed Her had attacked a village on the mountains, the same
that Ibrahim had intended to attack, and that the natives had exterminated their whole party.

Unfortunately a great change had likewise taken place in the manner of the Latookas. The whole
town was greatly excited, drums were beating and horns blowing in all quarters, every one rejoicing
at the annihilation of Mahommed Her's party. The natives no longer respected the superior power
of guns; in a hand-to-hand fight they had proved their own superiority, and they had not the
sense to distinguish the difference between a struggle in a steep mountain pass and a battle
on the open plain. Ibrahim was apprehensive of a general attack on his party by the Latookas.

This was rather awkward, as it was necessary for him to return to Gondokoro for a large supply
of ammunition which had been left there for want of porters to convey it, when he had started
for the interior. To march to Gondokoro, and to guard the ammunition, would require a large
force in the present disturbed state of the country; thus we should be a much-reduced party,
which might induce the Latookas to attack us after his departure. However, it was necessary
that he should start. I accordingly lent him a couple of donkeys to convey his powder, in case
he should not be able to procure porters.

After the departure of Ibrahim, the force of his party remaining at Tarrangolle was reduced
to thirty-five men, under the command of his lieutenant, Suleiman. This was a weak detachment
in the event of an attack, especially as they had no separate camp, but were living in the
native town, the men quartered in detached huts, and accordingly at the mercy of the natives
if surprised. The brutality of the Turks was so inseparable from their nature, that they continually
insulted the native women to such an extent that I felt sure they would provoke hostilities
in the present warlike humour of the Latookas. The stream being nearly a mile distant, there
was a difficulty in procuring water. The Turks being far too lazy to carry it for themselves,
seized upon the water-jars when the women returned from the stream, and beat them severely
upon their refusal to deliver them without payment. I found no difficulty, as I engaged a woman
to bring a regular supply for a daily payment in beads. Much bartering was going on between
the Turks and the natives for provisions, in which the latter were invariably cheated, and
beaten if they complained. I felt sure that such conduct must end in disagreement, if not in
actual fight, in the event of which I knew that I should be dragged into the affair, although
perfectly innocent, and having nothing to do with the Turks.

My quarters in the town were near an open quadrangular space about eighty yards square, inclosed
upon all sides, but having a narrow entrance to the main street. The Turks were scattered about
in the neighbouring lanes, their time passed in drinking merissa, and quarrelling with the
natives and with each other.

The day after Ibrahim's departure, the Turks seized some jars of water by force from the women
on their return from the stream. A row ensued, and ended by one of the women being shamefully
maltreated; and a Latooka, who came to her assistance, was severely beaten. This I did not
see, but it was reported to me. I called Suleiman, and told him that if such things were permitted
it would entail a fight with the natives, in which I should not allow my men to join; that
I prohibited my men from taking anything from the Latookas without just payment: thus, should
a fight be caused by the conduct of his people, they must get out of it as they best could.

A bad feeling already existed between the natives and his people, owing to the defeat of the
party of Mahommed Her. Much good management was required to avoid a collision, and the reverse
was certain to cause an outbreak. Shortly before dusk the women were again assaulted on their
return with water from the stream. One of Ibrahim's soldiers threatened a powerful-looking
Amazon with his stick because she refused to deliver up her jar of water that she had carried
about a mile for her own requirements. Upon seeing this my pretty friend, Bokke, the chief's
wife, seized the soldier by the throat, wrested the stick from him, while another woman disarmed
him of his gun. Other women then set upon him, and gave him a most ignominious shaking; while
some gathered up mud from the gutter and poured it down the barrel of his gun until they effectually
choked it; not content with this, they plastered large masses of mud over the locks and trigger.

I looked on with enjoyment at the thorough discomfiture of the Turk. The news quickly spread,
and in revenge for his disgrace his comrades severely beat some women at some distance from
the camp. I heard screams, and shouts, and a confused noise; and upon my arrival outside the
town, I saw large numbers of natives running from all quarters, and collecting together with
lances and shields. I felt sure that we were to be involved in a general outbreak. However,
the Turks beat the drum, and collected their men, so that in a few minutes no straggler was
in the town.

It was remarkably unpleasant to be dragged into a row by the conduct of these brutal traders,
with whom I had nothing in common, and who, should a fight actually occur, would be certain
to behave as cowards. The Latookas would make no distinction between me and them, in the event
of an attack, as they would naturally class all strangers and new comers with the hated Turks.

It was about 5 P.M. one hour before sunset. The woman who usually brought us water delivered
her jar, but disappeared immediately after without sweeping the courtyard as was her custom.
Her children, who usually played in this inclosure, had vanished. On searching her hut, which
was in one corner of the yard, no one was to be found, and even the grinding-stone was gone.
Suspecting that something was in the wind, I sent Karka and Gaddum Her, the two black servants,
to search in various huts in the neighbourhood to observe if the owners were present, and whether
the women were in their houses. Not a woman could be found. Neither woman nor child remained
in the large town of Tarrangolle. There was an extraordinary stillness where usually all was
noise and chattering. All the women and children had been removed to the mountains about two
miles distant, and this so quickly and noiselessly that it appeared incredible. I immediately
sent to the house of the chief, and requested his attendance. There were two chiefs, brothers;
Moy was the greater in point of rank, but his brother, Commoro, had more actual authority with
the people. I was glad that the latter appeared.

I sent to request an interpreter from the Turks, and upon his arrival I asked Commoro why the
women and children had been removed. He replied, "That the Turks were so brutal that he could
not prevail upon his people to endure it any longer; their women were robbed and beaten, and
they were all so ill-treated, that he, as their chief, had no longer any control over them;
and that the odium of having introduced the Turks to Latooka was thrown upon him." I asked
him whether any of my men had misbehaved. I explained that I should flog any one of my men
who should steal the merest trifle from his people, or insult any women. All my men were in
dark-brown uniforms. He said, "That none of the men with the brown clothes had been complained
of, but that his people had taken a dislike to all strangers, owing to the conduct of the Turks,
and that he could not answer for the consequences."

There was a division among his own people, some wishing to fight and to serve the Turks as
the Latookas had served the party of Mahommed Her, and others yielding to his advice, and agreeing
to remain quiet.

I inquired whether the chief, Moy, intended peace or war. He said, "That Bokke, his wife, had
made him very angry against the Turks by describing their conduct towards the women."

This was rather an unsatisfactory state of things. Commoro departed, frankly admitting that
the natives were much excited and wished to attack, but that he would do his best with them.

These rascally TRADERS set every country in a blaze by their brutal conduct, and rendered exploring,
not only most dangerous but next to impossible, without an exceedingly powerful force.

The sun set; and, as usual in tropical climates, darkness set in within half an hour. Not a
woman had returned to the town, nor was the voice of a man to be heard. The natives had entirely
forsaken the portion of the town that both I and the Turks occupied. The night was perfectly
calm, and the stars shone so brightly, that I took an observation for the latitude--4 degrees
30 minutes. There was a death-like stillness in the air. Even the Turks, who were usually uproarious,
were perfectly quiet, and although my men made no remark, it was plain that we were all occupied
by the same thoughts, and that an attack was expected.

It was about 9 o'clock, and the stillness had become almost painful. There was no cry of a
bird; not even the howl of a hyena: the camels were sleeping; but every man was wide awake,
and the sentries well on the alert. We were almost listening at the supernatural stillness,
if I may so describe the perfect calm, when, suddenly, every one startled at the deep and solemn
boom of the great war-drum, or nogara! Three distinct beats, at slow intervals, rang through
the apparently deserted town, and echoed loudly from the neighbouring mountain. It was the
signal! A few minutes elapsed, and like a distant echo from the north the three mournful tones
again distinctly sounded. Was it an echo? Impossible. Now from the south, far distant, but
unmistakeable, the same three regular beats came booming through the still night air. Again
and again, from every quarter, spreading far and wide, the signal was responded; and the whole
country echoed those three solemn notes so full of warning. Once more the great nogara of Tarrangolle
sounded the original alarm within a few hundred paces of our quarters. The whole country was up.

There was no doubt about the matter. The Turks well knew those three notes were the war-signal
of the Latookas. I immediately called Suleiman. It was necessary to act in unison. I ordered
him to beat the drum loudly for about five minutes to answer the nogara. His men were all scattered
in several small inclosures. I called them all out into the open quadrangle; in the centre
of which I placed the baggage, and planted the English ensign in the middle, while the Turks
fixed their flag within a few paces. Posting sentries at each corner of the square, I stationed
patrols in the principal street. In the meantime Mrs. Baker had laid out upon a mat several
hundred cartridges of buck-shot, powder-flasks, wadding, and opened several boxes of caps,
all of which were neatly arranged for a reserve of ammunition; while a long row of first-class
double guns and rifles lay in readiness. The boy Saat was full of fight, and immediately strapped
on his belt and cartouche-box, and took his stand among the men.

I ordered the men, in the event of an attack, to immediately set fire to all the huts around
the quadrangle; in which case the sudden rush of a large body of men would be impossible, and
the huts being of straw, the town would be quickly in a blaze.

Everything was in order to resist an attack in five minutes from the sounding of the nogara.

The patrols shortly reported that large bodies of men were collecting outside the town. The
great nogara again beat, and was answered at intervals as before from the neighbouring villages;
but the Turks' drum kept up an uninterrupted roll as a challenge whenever the nogara sounded.
Instead of the intense stillness that had formerly been almost painful, a distinct hum of distant
voices betokened the gathering of large bodies of men. However, we were well fortified; and
the Latookas knew it. We occupied the very stronghold that they had themselves constructed
for the defence of their town; and the square being surrounded with strong iron-wood palisades
with only a narrow entrance, would be impregnable when held, as now, by fifty men well armed
with guns against a mob whose best weapons were only lances. I sent men up the watchmen's stations;
these were about twenty-five feet high; and the night being clear, they could distinctly report
the movements of a dark mass of natives that were ever increasing on the outside of the town
at about two hundred yards' distance. The rattle of the Turks' drum repeatedly sounded in reply
to the nogara, and the intended attack seemed destined to relapse into a noisy but empty battle
of the drums.

A few hours passed in uncertainty, when, at about midnight, the chief Commoro came fearlessly
to the patrol, and was admitted to the quadrangle. He seemed greatly struck with the preparations
for defence, and explained that the nogara had been beaten without his orders, and accordingly
the whole country had risen; but that he had explained to the people that I had no hostile
intentions, and that all would be well if they only kept the peace. He said they certainly
had intended to attack us, and were surprised that we were prepared, as proved by the immediate
reply of the Turks' drum to their nogara. He assured us that he would not sleep that night,
but would watch that nothing should happen. I assured him that we should also keep awake, but
should the nogara sound once more I should give orders to my men to set fire to the town, as
I should not allow the natives to make use of such threats with impunity. I agreed to use what
little interest I had to keep the Turks in order, but that I must not be held responsible by
the natives for their proceedings, as I was not of their country, neither had I anything to
do with them. I explained, that upon Ibrahim's return from Gondokoro things might improve,
as he was the captain of the Turks, and might be able to hold his men in command. Commoro departed,
and about 2 A.M. the dense crowds of armed men that had accumulated outside the town began
to disperse.

The morning broke and saw the men still under arms, but the excitement had passed. The women
soon reappeared with their water jars as usual, but on this occasion they were perfectly unmolested
by the Turks, who, having passed the night in momentary expectation of an attack, were now
upon their best behaviour. However, I heard them muttering among themselves, "Wait until Ibrahim
returns with reinforcements and ammunition, and we will pay the Latookas for last night."

The town filled; and the Latookas behaved as though nothing out of the common had occurred;
but when questioned, they coolly confessed that they had intended to surprise us, but that
we were too "wide awake.". It is extraordinary that these fellows are so stupid as to beat
the drum or nogara before the attack, as it naturally gives the alarm, and renders a surprise
impossible; nevertheless, the war-drum is always a preliminary step to hostilities. I now resolved
to camp outside the town, so as not to be mixed up in any way with the Turks, whose presence
was certain to create enmity. Accordingly I engaged a number of natives to cut thorns, and
to make a zareeba, or camp, about four hundred yards from the main entrance of the town, on
the road to the stream of water. In a few days it was completed, and I constructed houses for
my men, and two good huts for ourselves. Having a supply of garden seeds, I arranged a few
beds, which I sowed with onions, cabbages, and radishes. My camp was eighty yards long, and
forty wide. My horses were picqueted in two corners, while the donkeys and camels occupied
the opposite extremity. We now felt perfectly independent. I had masses of supplies, and I
resolved to work round to the south-west whenever it might be possible, and thus to recover
the route that I had originally proposed for my journey south. My present difficulty was the
want of an interpreter. The Turks had several, and I hoped that on the return of Ibrahim from
Gondokoro I might induce him to lend me a Bari lad for some consideration. For the present
I was obliged to send to the Turks' camp and borrow an interpreter whenever I required one,
which was both troublesome and expensive.

Although I was willing to purchase all supplies with either beads or copper bracelets, I found
it was impossible to procure meat. The natives refused to sell either cattle or goats. This
was most tantalizing, as not less than 10,000 head of cattle filed by my camp every morning
as they were driven from the town to pasturage. All this amount of beef paraded before me,
and did not produce a steak! Milk was cheap and abundant; fowl were scarce; corn was plentiful;
vegetables were unknown; not even pumpkins were grown by the Latookas.

Fortunately there was an abundance of small game in the shape of wild ducks, pigeons, doves;
and a great variety of birds such as herons, cranes, spoonbills, &c. Travellers should always
take as large a supply of shot as possible. I had four hundred weight, and prodigious quantities
of powder and caps: thus I could at all times kill sufficient game for ourselves and people.
There were a series of small marshy pools scattered over the country near the stream that ran
through the valley; these were the resort of numerous ducks, which afforded excellent sport.
The town of Tarrangolle is situated at the foot of the mountain, about a mile from the stream,
which is about eighty yards wide, but shallow. In the dry weather, water is obtained by wells
dug in the sandy bed, but during the rains it is a simple torrent not exceeding three feet
in depth. The bed being sandy, the numerous banks, left dry by the fluctuations of the stream,
are most inviting spots for ducks; and it was only necessary to wait under a tree, on the river's
bank, to obtain thirty or forty shots in one morning as the ducks flew down the course of the
stream. I found two varieties: the small brown duck with a grey head; and a magnificent variety,
as large as the Muscovy, having a copper-and-blue coloured tinselled back and wings, with a
white but speckled head and neck. This duck had a curious peculiarity in a fleshy protuberance
on the beak about as large as a half-crown. This stands erect, like a cock's comb. Both this,
and the smaller variety, were delicious eating. There were two varieties of geese--the only
two that I have ever seen on the White Nile--the common Egyptian grey goose, and a large black
and white bird with a crimson head and neck, and a red and yellow horny protuberance on the
top of the head. This variety has a sharp spur upon the wing an inch long, and exceedingly
powerful; it is used as a weapon of defence for striking, like the spurred wing of the plover.

I frequeutly shot ten or twelve ducks, and as many cranes, before breakfast; among others the
beautiful crested crane, called by the Arabs "garranook." The black velvet head of this crane,
surrounded by a golden crest, was a favourite ornament of the Latookas, and they were immediately
arranged as crests for their helmets. The neighbourhood of my camp would have made a fortune
for a feather-dealer; it was literally strewn with down and plumes. I was always attended every
morning by a number of Latooka boys, who were eager sportsmen, and returned to camp daily laden
with ducks and geese.

No sooner did we arrive in camp than a number of boys volunteered to pluck the birds, which
they did for the sake of the longest feathers, with which they immediately decked their woolly
heads. Crowds of boys were to be seen with heads like cauliflowers, all dressed with the feathers
of cranes and wild ducks. It appears to be accepted, both by the savage and civilized, that
birds' feathers are specially intended for ornamenting the human head.

It was fortunate that Nature had thus stocked Latooka with game. It was impossible to procure
any other meat; and not only were the ducks and geese to us what the quails were to the Israelites
in the desert, but they enabled me to make presents to the natives that assured them of our
good will.

Although the Latookas were far better than other tribes that I had met, they were sufficiently
annoying; they gave me no credit for real good will, but they attributed my forbearance to
weakness. On one occasion Adda, one of the chiefs, came to ask me to join him in attacking
a village to procure molotes (iron hoes); he said, "Come along with me, bring your men and
guns, and we will attack a village near here, and take their molotes and cattle; you keep the
cattle, and I will have the molotes." I asked him whether the village was in an enemy's country.
"Oh no!" he replied, "it is close here; but the people are rather rebellious, and it will do
them good to kill a few, and to take their molotes. If you are afraid, never mind, I will ask
the Turks to do it." Thus forbearance on my part was supposed to be caused from weakness, and
it was difficult to persuade them that it originated in a feeling of justice. This Adda most
coolly proposed that we should plunder one of his own villages that was rather too "liberal"
in its views. Nothing is more heartbreaking than to be so thoroughly misunderstood, and the
obtuseness of the savages was such, that I never could make them understand the existence of
good principle;--their one idea was "power,"--force that could obtain all--the strong hand
that could wrest from the weak. In disgust I frequently noted the feelings of the moment in
my journal--a memorandum from which I copy as illustrative of the time. "1863, 10th April,
Latooka.--I wish the black sympathisers in England could see Africa's inmost heart as I do,
much of their sympathy would subside. Human nature viewed in its crude state as pictured amongst
African savages is quite on a level with that of the brute, and not to be compared with the
noble character of the dog. There is neither gratitude, pity, love, nor self-denial; no idea
of duty; no religion; but covetousness, ingratitude, selfishness and cruelty. All are thieves,
idle, envious, and ready to plunder and enslave their weaker neighbours."

CHAPTER VI.

THE FUNERAL DANCE.

Drums were beating, horns blowing, and people were seen all running in one direction;--the
cause was a funeral dance, and I joined the crowd, and soon found myself in the midst of the
entertainment. The dancers were most grotesquely got up. About a dozen huge ostrich feathers
adorned their helmets; either leopard or the black and white monkey skins were suspended from
their shoulders, and a leather tied round the waist covered a large iron bell which was strapped
upon the loins of each dancer, like a woman's old-fashioned bustle: this they rung to the time
of the dance by jerking their posteriors in the most absurd manner. A large crowd got up in
this style created an indescribable hubbub, heightened by the blowing of horns and the beating
of seven nogaras of various notes. Every dancer wore an antelope's horn suspended round the
neck, which he blew occasionally in the height of his excitement. These instruments produced
a sound partaking of the braying of a donkey and the screech of an owl. Crowds of men rushed
round and round in a sort of "galop infernel," brandishing their lances and iron-headed maces,
and keeping tolerably in line five or six deep, following the leader who headed them, dancing
backwards. The women kept outside the line, dancing a slow stupid step, and screaming a wild
and most inharmonious chant; while a long string of young girls and small children, their heads
and necks rubbed with red ochre and grease, and prettily ornamented with strings of beads around
their loins, kept a very good line, beating the time with their feet, and jingling the numerous
iron rings which adorned their ankles to keep time with the drums. One woman attended upon
the men, running through the crowd with a gourd full of wood-ashes, handfuls of which she showered
over their heads, powdering them like millers; the object of the operation I could not understand.
The "premiere danseuse" was immensely fat; she had passed the bloom of youth, but, "malgre"
her unwieldy state, she kept up the pace to the last, quite unconscious of her general appearance,
and absorbed with the excitement of the dance.

These festivities were to be continued in honour of the dead; and as many friends had recently
been killed, music and dancing would be in fashion for some weeks.

There was an excellent interpreter belonging to Ibrahim's party--a Bari lad of about eighteen.
This boy had been in their service for some years, and had learnt Arabic, which he spoke fluently,
although with a peculiar accent, owing to the extraction of the four front teeth of the lower
jaw, according to the general custom. It was of great importance to obtain the confidence of
Loggo, as my success depended much upon information that I might obtain from the natives; therefore,
whenever I sent for him to hold any conversation with the people, I invariably gave him a little
present at parting. Accordingly he obeyed any summons from me with great alacrity, knowing
that the interview would terminate with a "baksheesh" (present). In this manner I succeeded
in establishing confidence, and he would frequently come uncalled to my tent and converse upon
all manner of subjects. The Latooka language is different to the Bari, and a second interpreter
was necessary; this was a sharp lad about the same age: thus the conversation was somewhat
tedious, the medium being Bari and Latooka.

The chief Commoro (the "Lion") was one of the most clever and common-sense savages that I had
seen in these countries, and the tribe paid far more deference to his commands than to those
of his brother, "Moy," although the latter was the superior in rank.

Giving up the religious argument as a failure, I resolved upon more practical inquiries.

The Turks had only arrived in the Latooka country in the preceding year. They had not introduced
the cowrie shell; but I observed that every helmet was ornamented with this species; it therefore
occurred to me that they must find their way into the country from Zanzibar.

In reply to my inquiries, Commoro pointed to the south, from which he said they arrived in
his country, but he had no idea from whence they came. The direction was sufficient to prove
that they must be sent from the east coast, as Speke and Grant had followed the Zanzibar traders
as far as Karagwe, the 2 degrees S. lat.

Commoro could not possibly understand my object in visiting the Latooka country; it was in
vain that I attempted to explain the intention of my journey. What's the good of it?"

I could only assure him, that in England we had an intimate knowledge of the whole world, except
the interior of Africa, and that our object in exploring was to benefit the hitherto unknown
countries by instituting legitimate trade, and introducing manufactures from England in exchange
for ivory and other productions. He replied that the Turks would never trade fairly; that they
were extremely bad people, and that they would not purchase ivory in any other way than by
bartering cattle, which they stole from one tribe to sell to another.

Our conversation was suddenly terminated by one of my men running in to the tent with the bad
news that one of the camels had dropped down and was dying. The report was too true. He was
poisoned by a well-known plant that he had been caught in the act of eating. In a few hours
he died. There is no more stupid animal than the camel. Nature has implanted in most animals
an instinctive knowledge of the plants suitable for food, and they generally avoid those that
are poisonous: but the camel will eat indiscriminately anything that is green; and if in a
country where the plant exists that is well known by the Arabs as the "camel poison," watchers
must always accompany the animals while grazing. The most fatal plant is a creeper, very succulent,
and so beautifully green that its dense foliage is most attractive to the stupid victim. The
stomach of the camel is very subject to inflammation, which is rapidly fatal. I have frequently
seen them, after several days of sharp desert marching, arrive in good pasture, and die, within
a few hours, of inflammation caused by repletion. It is extraordinary how they can exist upon
the driest and apparently most innutritious food. When other animals are starving, the camel
manages to pick up a subsistence, eating the ends of barren, leafless twigs, the dried sticks
of certain shrubs, and the tough dry paper-like substance of the dome palm, about as succulent
a breakfast as would be a green umbrella and a Times newspaper. With intense greediness the
camel, although a hermit in simplicity of fare in hard times, feeds voraciously when in abundant
pasture, always seeking the greenest shrubs. The poison-bush becomes a fatal bait.

The camel is by no means well understood in Europe. Far from being the docile and patient animal
generally described, it is quite the reverse, and the males are frequently dangerous. They
are exceedingly perverse; and are, as before described, excessively stupid. For the great deserts
they are wonderfully adapted, and without them it would be impossible to cross certain tracts
of country for want of water.

Exaggerated accounts have been written respecting the length of time that a camel can travel
without drinking. The period that the animal can subsist without suffering from thirst depends
entirely upon the season and the quality of food. Precisely as in Europe sheep require but
little water when fed upon turnips, so does the camel exist almost without drinking during
the rainy season when pastured upon succulent and dewy herbage. During the hottest season,
when green herbage ceases to exist in the countries inhabited by camels, they are led to water
every alternate day, thus they are supposed to drink once in forty-eight hours; but when upon
the march across deserts, where no water exists, they are expected to carry a load of from
five to six hundred pounds, and to march twenty-five miles per day, for three days, without
drinking, but to be watered on the fourth day. Thus a camel should drink the evening before
the start, and he will carry his load one hundred miles without the necessity of drinking;
not, however, without suffering from thirst. On the third day's march, during the hot simoom,
the camel should drink if possible; but he can endure the fourth day.

This peculiarity of constitution enables the camel to overcome obstacles of nature that would
otherwise be insurmountable. Not only can he travel over the scorching sand of the withering
deserts, but he never seeks the shade. When released from his burden he kneels by his load
in the burning sand, and luxuriates in the glare of a sun that drives all other beasts to shelter.
The peculiar spongy formation of the foot renders the camel exceedingly sure, although it is
usual to believe that it is only adapted for flat, sandy plains. I have travelled over mountains
so precipitous that no domestic animal but the camel could have accomplished the task with
a load. This capability is not shared generally by the race, but by a breed belonging to the
Hadendowa Arabs, between the Red Sea and Taka. There is quite as great a variety in the breeds
of camels as of horses. Those most esteemed in the Soudan are the Bishareen; they are not so
large as others, but are exceedingly strong and enduring.

The average value of a baggage camel among the Soudan Arabs is fifteen dollars, but a good
"hygeen," or riding dromedary, is worth from fifty to a hundred and fifty dollars, according
to his capabilities. A thoroughly good hygeen is supposed to travel fifty miles a day, and
to continue this pace for five days, carrying only his rider and a small water-skin or girba.
His action should be so easy that his long ambling trot should produce that peculiar movement
adopted by a nurse when hushing a child to sleep upon her knee. This movement is delightful,
and the quick elastic step of a first-class animal imparts an invigorating spirit to the rider;
and were it not for the intensity of the sun, he would willingly ride for ever. The difference
of action and of comfort to the rider between a common camel and a high class hygeen is equal
to that between a thoroughbred and a heavy dray-horse.

However, with all the good qualities of a "Bishareen," my best camel was dead. This was a sad
loss. So long as my animals were well I felt independent, and the death of this camel was equal
to minus five cwt. of luggage. My men were so idle that they paid no attention to the animals,
and the watcher who had been appointed to look after the four camels had amused himself by
going to the Latooka dance. Thus was the loss of my best animal occasioned.

So well had all my saddles and pads been arranged at Khartoum, that although we had marched
seven days with exceedingly heavy loads, not one of the animals had a sore back. The donkeys
were exceedingly fresh, but they had acquired a most disgusting habit. The Latookas are remarkably
clean in their towns, and nothing unclean is permitted within the stockade or fence. Thus the
outside, especially the neighbourhood of the various entrances, was excessively filthy, and
my donkeys actually fattened as scavengers, like pigs. I remembered that my unfortunate German
Johann Schmidt had formerly told me that he was at one time shooting in the Base country, where
the grass had been burnt, and not a blade of vegetation was procurable. He had abundance of
sport, and he fed his donkey upon the flesh of antelopes, which he ate with avidity, and throve
exceedingly. It is a curious fact that donkeys should under certain circumstances become omnivorous,
while horses remain clean feeders.

CHAPTER VII.

LATOOKA.

The country in the immediate neighbourhood of Latooka was parched, as there had been no rain
for some time. The latitude was 4 degrees 35', longitude 32 degrees 55' E.; the rains had commenced
in February on the mountains on the south side of the valley, about eighteen miles distant.
Every day there was an appearance of a storm; the dark clouds gathered ominously around the
peak of the Gebel Lafeet above the town, but they were invariably attracted by the higher range
on the opposite and south side of the valley, where they daily expended themselves at about
3 P.M. On that side of the valley the mountains rose to about 6,000 feet, and formed a beautiful
object seen from my camp. It was most interesting to observe the embryo storms travel from
Tarrangolle in a circle, and ultimately crown the higher range before us, while the thunder
roared and echoed from rock to rock across the plain.

The Latookas assured me that at the foot of those mountains there were elephants and giraffes
in abundance; accordingly, I determined to make a reconnaissance of the country.

On the following morning I started on horseback, with two of my people mounted, and a native
guide, and rode through the beautiful valley of Latooka to the foot of the range. The first
five or six miles were entirely de-pastured by the enormous herds of the Latookas who were
driven to that distance from the towns daily, all the country in the immediate vicinity being
dried up. The valley was extremely fertile, but totally unoccupied and in a state of nature,
being a wilderness of open plains, jungles, patches of forest and gullies, that although dry
evidently formed swamps during the wet season. When about eight miles from the town we came
upon tracks of the smaller antelopes, which, although the weakest, are the most daring in approaching
the habitations of man. A few miles farther on, we saw buffaloes and hartebeest, and shortly
came upon tracks of giraffes. Just at this moment the inky clouds that as usual had gathered
over Tarrangolle came circling around us, and presently formed so dense a canopy that the darkness
was like a partial eclipse. The thunder warned us with tremendous explosions just above us,
while the lightning flashed almost at our feet with blinding vividness. A cold wind suddenly
rushed through the hitherto calm air; this is the certain precursor of rain in hot climates,
the heavier cold air of the rain-cloud falling into the stratum of warmer and lighter atmosphere
below.

It DID rain--in such torrents as only the inhabitants of tropical countries can understand.
"Cover up the gun-locks!"--and the pieces of mackintosh for that purpose were immediately secured
in their places. Well, let it rain!--it is rather pleasant to be wet through in a country where
the thermometer is seldom below 92 degrees Fahr., especially when there is no doubt of getting
wet through--not like the wretched drizzling rain of England, that chills you with the fear
that perhaps your great-coat is not waterproof, but a regular douche bath that would beat in
the crown of a cheap hat. How delightful to be really cool in the centre of Africa! I was charmingly
wet--the water was running out of the heels of my shoes, which were overflowing; the wind howled
over the flood that was pouring through the hitherto dry gullies, and in the course of ten
minutes the whole scene had changed. It was no longer the tropics; the climate was that of
old England restored to me: the chilled air refreshed me, and I felt at home again. "How delightful!"
I exclaimed, as I turned round to see how my followers were enjoying it.

Dear me! I hardly knew my own people. Of all the miserable individuals I ever saw, they were
superlative--they were not enjoying the change of climate in the least--with heads tucked down
and streams of water running from their nasal extremities, they endeavoured to avoid the storm.
Perfectly thoughtless of all but self in the extremity of their misery, they had neglected
the precaution of lowering the muzzles of their guns, and my beautiful No. 10 rifles were full
of water. "Charming day!" I exclaimed to my soaked and shivering followers, who looked like
kittens in a pond. They muttered something that might be interpreted "What's fun to you is
death to us." I comforted them with the assurance that this was an English climate on a midsummer
day. If my clothed Arabs suffered from cold, where was my naked guide? He was the most pitiable
object I ever saw; with teeth chattering and knees knocking together with cold, he crouched
under the imaginary shelter of a large tamarind tree; he was no longer the clean black that
had started as my guide, but the cold and wet had turned him grey, and being thin, he looked
like an exaggerated slate-pencil. Not wishing to discourage my men, I unselfishly turned back
just as I was beginning to enjoy myself, and my people regarded me as we do the Polar bear
at the Zoological Gardens, who begins to feel happy on the worst day in our English winter.

We returned home by a different route, not being able to find the path in the trackless state
of the country during the storm. There were in some places unmistakeable evidences of the presence
of elephants, and I resolved to visit the spot again. I returned to the tent at 4 P.M. satisfied
that sport was to be had.

On my arrival at camp I found the natives very excited at the appearance of rain, which they
firmly believed had been called specially by their chief. All were busy preparing their molotes
(iron hoes), fitting new handles, and getting everything ready for the periodical sowing of
their crop.

The handles of the molotes are extremely long, from seven to ten feet, and the instrument being
shaped like a miner's spade (heart-shaped), is used like a Dutch hoe, and is an effective tool
in ground that has been cleared, but is very unfitted for preparing fresh soil. Iron ore of
good quality exists on the surface throughout this country.

The Latookas, like the Baris, are excellent blacksmiths, producing a result that would astonish
an English workman, considering the rough nature of their tools, which are confined to a hammer,
anvil, and tongs; the latter formed of a cleft-stick of green wood, while the two former are
stones of various sizes. Their bellows consist of two pots about a foot deep; from the bottom
of each is an earthenware pipe about two feet long, the points of which are inserted in a charcoal
fire. The mouths of the pots are covered with very pliable leather, loose and well greased;
in the centre of each leather covering is an upright stick about four feet long, and the bellows-blower
works these rapidly with a perpendicular motion, thus producing a strong blast. The natives
are exceedingly particular in the shape of their molotes, and invariably prove them by balancing
them on their heads and ringing them by a blow with the finger.

The Latookas being much engaged in preparing for cultivation, I had some difficulty in arranging
a hunting party; my men abhorred the idea of elephant hunting, or of anything else that required
hard work and included danger. However, I succeeded in engaging Adda, the third chief of Latooka,
and several natives, to act as my guides, and I made my arrangements for a stated day.

On the 17th of April I started at 5 A.M. with my three horses and two camels, the latter carrying
water and food. After a march of two or three hours through the beautiful hunting-grounds formed
by the valley of Latooka, with its alternate prairies and jungles, I came upon the tracks of
rhinoceros, giraffes, and elephants, and shortly moved a rhinoceros, but could get no shot,
owing to the thick bush in which he started and disappeared quicker than I could dismount.
After a short circuit in search of the rhinoceros, we came upon a large herd of buffaloes,
but at the same moment we heard elephants trumpeting at the foot of the mountains. Not wishing
to fire, lest the great game should be disturbed, I contented myself with riding after the
buffaloes, wonderfully followed on foot by Adda, who ran like a deer, and almost kept up with
my horse, hurling his three lances successively at the buffaloes, but without success. I had
left the camels in an open plain, and returning from the gallop after the buffaloes, I saw
the men on the camels beckoning to me in great excitement.

Cantering towards them, they explained that a herd of bull elephants had just crossed an open
space, and had passed into the jungle beyond. There was evidently abundance of game; and calling
my men together, I told them to keep close to me with the spare horses and rifles, while I
sent the Latookas ahead to look out for the elephants: we followed at a short distance.

In about ten minutes we saw the Latookas hurrying towards us, and almost immediately after,
I saw two enormous bull elephants with splendid tusks about a hundred yards from us, apparently
the leaders of an approaching herd. The ground was exceedingly favourable, being tolerably
open, and yet with sufficient bush to afford a slight cover. Presently, several elephants appeared
and joined the two leaders--there was evidently a considerable number in the herd, and I was
on the point of dismounting to take the first shot on foot, when the Latookas, too eager, approached
the herd: their red and blue helmets at once attracted the attention of the elephants, and
a tremendous rush took place, the whole herd closing together and tearing off at full speed.
"Follow me!" I hallooed to my men, and touching my horse with the spur, I intended to dash
into the midst of the herd. Just at that instant, in his start, my horse slipped and fell suddenly
upon his side, falling upon my right leg and thus pinning me to the ground. He was not up to
my weight, and releasing myself, I immediately mounted my old Abyssinian hunter, "Tetel," and
followed the tracks of the elephants at full speed, accompanied by two of the Latookas, who
ran like hounds. Galloping through the green but thornless bush, I soon came in sight of a
grand bull elephant, steaming along like a locomotive engine straight before me.

Digging in the spurs, I was soon within twenty yards of him; but the ground was so unfavourable,
being full of buffalo holes, that I could not pass him. In about a quarter of an hour, after
a careful chase over deep ruts and gullies concealed in high grass, I arrived at a level space,
and shooting ahead, I gave him a shoulder shot with the Reilly No. 10 rifle. I saw the wound
in a good place, but the bull rushed along all the quicker, and again we came into bad ground
that made it unwise to close. However, on the first opportunity I made a dash by him, and fired
my left-hand barrel at full gallop. He slackened his speed, but I could not halt to reload,
lest I should lose sight of him in the high grass and bush.

Not a man was with me to hand a spare rifle. My cowardly fellows, although light-weights and
well mounted, were nowhere; the natives were outrun, as of course was Richarn, who, not being
a good rider, had preferred to hunt on foot. In vain I shouted for the men; and I followed
the elephant with an empty rifle for about ten minutes, until he suddenly turned round, and
stood facing me in an open spot in grass about nine or ten feet high. "Tetel" was a grand horse
for elephants, not having the slightest fear, and standing fire like a rock, never even starting
under the discharge of the heaviest charge of powder. I now commenced reloading, when presently
one of my men, Yaseen, came up upon "Filfil." Taking a spare gun from him, I rode rapidly past
the elephant, and suddenly reining up, I made a good shot exactly behind the bladebone. With
a shrill scream, the elephant charged down upon me like a steam-engine. In went the spurs.
"Tetel" knew his work, and away he went over the ruts and gullies, the high dry grass whistling
in my ears as we shot along at full speed, closely followed by the enraged bull for about two
hundred yards.

The elephant then halted; and turning the horse's head, I again faced him and reloaded. I thought
he was dying, as he stood with trunk drooping, and ears closely pressed back upon his neck.
Just at this moment I heard the rush of elephants advancing through the green bush upon the
rising ground above the hollow formed by the open space of high withered grass in which we
were standing facing each other. My man Yaseen had bolted with his fleet horse at the first
charge, and was not to be seen. Presently, the rushing sound increased, and the heads of a
closely packed herd of about eighteen elephants showed above the low bushes, and they broke
cover, bearing down directly upon me, both I and my horse being unobserved in the high grass.
I never saw a more lovely sight; they were all bulls with immense tusks. Waiting until they
were within twenty yards of me, I galloped straight at them, giving a yell that turned them.
Away they rushed up the hill, but at so great a pace, that upon the rutty and broken ground
I could not overtake them, and they completely distanced me. Tetel, although a wonderfully
steady hunter, was an uncommonly slow horse, but upon this day he appeared to be slower than
usual, and I was not at the time aware that he was seriously ill. By following three elephants
separated from the herd I came up to them by a short cut, and singling out a fellow with enormous
tusks, I rode straight at him. Finding himself overhauled, he charged me with such quickness
and followed me up so far, that it was with the greatest difficulty that I cleared him. When
he turned, I at once returned to the attack; but he entered a thick thorny jungle through which
no horse could follow, and I failed to obtain a shot.

I was looking for a path through which I could penetrate the bush, when I suddenly heard natives
shouting in the direction where I had left the wounded bull. Galloping towards the spot, I
met a few scattered natives; among others, Adda. After shouting for some time, at length Yaseen
appeared upon my horse Filfil; he had fled as usual when he saw the troop of elephants advancing,
and no one knows how far he had ridden before he thought it safe to look behind him. With two
mounted gun- bearers and five others on foot I had been entirely deserted through the cowardice
of my men. The elephant that I had left as dying, was gone. One of the Latookas had followed
upon his tracks, and we heard this fellow shouting in the distance. I soon overtook him, and
he led rapidly upon the track through thick bushes and high grass. In about a quarter of an
hour we came up with the elephant; he was standing in bush, facing us at about fifty yards'
distance, and immediately perceiving us, he gave a saucy jerk with his head, and charged most
determinedly. It was exceedingly difficult to escape, owing to the bushes which impeded the
horse, while the elephant crushed them like cobwebs: however, by turning my horse sharp round
a tree, I managed to evade him after a chase of about a hundred and fifty yards. Disappearing
in the jungle after his charge, I immediately followed him. The ground was hard, and so trodden
by elephants that it was difficult to single out the track. There was no blood upon the ground,
but only on the trees every now and then, where he had rubbed past them in his retreat. After
nearly two hours passed in slowly following upon his path, we suddenly broke cover and saw
him travelling very quietly through an extensive plain of high grass. The ground was gently
inclining upwards on either side the plain, but the level was a mass of deep, hardened ruts,
over which no horse could gallop. Knowing my friend's character, I rode up the rising ground
to reconnoitre: I found it tolerably clear of holes, and far superior to the rutty bottom.
My two mounted gun-bearers had now joined me, and far from enjoying the sport, they were almost
green with fright, when I ordered them to keep close to me and to advance.

I wanted them to attract the elephant's attention, so as to enable me to obtain a good shoulder
shot. Riding along the open plain, I at length arrived within about fifty yards of the bull,
when he slowly turned. Reining "Tetel" up, I immediately fired a steady shot at the shoulder
with the Reilly No. 10:--for a moment he fell upon his knees, but, recovering with wonderful
quickness, he was in full charge upon me. Fortunately I had inspected my ground previous to
the attack, and away I went up the inclination to my right, the spurs hard at work, and the
elephant screaming with rage, GAINING on me. My horse felt as though made of wood, and clumsily
rolled along in a sort of cow-gallop;--in vain I dug the spurs into his flanks, and urged him
by rein and voice; not an extra stride could I get out of him, and he reeled along as though
thoroughly exhausted, plunging in and out of the buffalo holes instead of jumping them. Hamed
was on my horse "Mouse," who went three to "Tetel's" one, and instead of endeavouring to divert
the elephant's attention, he shot ahead, and thought of nothing but getting out of the way.
Yaseen, on "Filfil," had fled in another direction; thus I had the pleasure of being hunted
down upon a sick and disabled horse. I kept looking round, thinking that the elephant would
give in:--we had been running for nearly half a mile, and the brute was overhauling me so fast
that he was within ten or twelve yards of the horse's tail, with his trunk stretched out to
catch him. Screaming like the whistle of an engine, he fortunately so frightened the horse
that he went his best, although badly, and I turned him suddenly down the hill and doubled
back like a hare. The elephant turned up the hill, and entering the jungle he relinquished
the chase, when another hundred yards' run would have bagged me.

In a life's experience in elephant-hunting, I never was hunted for such a distance. Great as
were Tetel's good qualities for pluck and steadiness, he had exhibited such distress and want
of speed, that I was sure he failed through some sudden malady. I immediately dismounted, and
the horse laid down, as I thought, to die.

Whistling loudly, I at length recalled Hamed, who had still continued his rapid flight without
once looking back, although the elephant was out of sight. Yaseen was, of course, nowhere;
but after a quarter of an hour's shouting and whistling, he reappeared, and I mounted Filfil,
ordering Tetel to be led home.

The sun had just sunk, and the two Latookas who now joined me refused to go farther on the
tracks, saying, that the elephant must die during the night, and that they would find him in
the morning. We were at least ten miles from camp; I therefore fired a shot to collect my scattered
men, and in about half an hour we all joined together, except the camels and their drivers,
that we had left miles behind.

No one had tasted food since the previous day, nor had I drunk water, although the sun had
been burning hot; I now obtained some muddy rain water from a puddle, and we went towards home,
where we arrived at half-past eight, every one tired with the day's work. The camels came into
camp about an hour later.

My men were all now wonderfully brave; each had some story of a narrow escape, and several
declared that the elephants had run over them, but fortunately without putting their feet upon
them.

The news spread through the town that the elephant was killed; and, long before daybreak on
the following morning, masses of natives had started for the jungles, where they found him
lying dead. Accordingly, they stole his magnificent tusks, which they carried to the town of
Wakkala, and confessed to taking all the flesh, but laid the blame of the ivory theft upon
the Wakkala tribe.

There was no redress. The questions of a right of game are ever prolific of bad blood, and
it was necessary in this instance to treat the matter lightly. Accordingly, the natives requested
me to go out and shoot them another elephant: on the condition of obtaining the meat, they
were ready to join in any hunting expedition.

The elephants in Central Africa have very superior tusks to those of Abyssinia. I had shot
a considerable number in the Base country on the frontier of Abyssinia, and few tusks were
above 30 1bs. weight; those in the neighbourhood of the White Nile average about 50 1bs. for
each tusk of a bull elephant, while those of the females are generally about 10 lbs. I have
seen monster tusks of 160 lbs., and one was in the possession of a trader, Mons. P., that weighed
172 1bs.

It is seldom that a pair of tusks are alike. As a man uses the right hand in preference to
the left, so the elephant works with a particular tusk, which is termed by the traders "el
Hadam" (the servant); this is naturally, more worn than the other, and is usually about ten
pounds lighter: frequently it is broken, as the elephant uses it as a lever to uproot trees
and to tear up the roots of various bushes upon which he feeds.

The African elephant is not only entirely different from the Indian species in his habits,
but he also differs in form.

There are three distinguishing peculiarities. The back of the African elephant is concave,
that of the Indian is convex; the ear of the African is enormous, entirely covering the shoulder
when thrown back, while the ear of the Indian variety is comparatively small. The head of the
African has a convex front, the top of the skull sloping back at a rapid inclination, while
the head of the Indian elephant exposes a flat surface a little above the trunk.

The average size of the African elephant is larger than those of Ceylon, although I have occasionally
shot monster rogues in the latter country, equal to anything that I have seen in Africa. The
average height of female elephants in Ceylon is about 7 ft. 10 in. at the shoulder, and that
of the males is about 9 ft.; but the usual height of the African variety I have found, by actual
measurement, of females to be 9 ft., while that of the bills is 10 ft. 6 in. Thus the females
of the African are equal to the males of Ceylon.

They also differ materially in their habits. In Ceylon, the elephant seeks the shade of thick
forests at the rising of the sun, in which he rests until about 5 P.M., when he wanders forth
upon the plains. In Africa, the country being generally more open, the elephant remains throughout
the day either beneath a solitary tree, or exposed to the sun in the vast prairies, where the
thick grass attains a height of from nine to twelve feet. The general food of the African elephant
consists of the foliage of trees, especially of mimosas. In Ceylon, although there are many
trees that serve as food, the elephant nevertheless is an extensive grass-feeder. The African
variety, being almost exclusively a tree-feeder, requires his tusks to assist him in procuring
food. Many of the mimosas are flat-headed, about thirty feet high, and the richer portion of
the foliage confined to the crown; thus the elephant, not being able to reach to so great a
height, must overturn the tree to procure the coveted food. The destruction caused by a herd
of African elephants in a mimosa forest is extraordinary; and I have seen trees uprooted of
so large a size, that I am convinced no single elephant could have overturned them. I have
measured trees four feet six inches in circumference, and about thirty feet high, uprooted
by elephants. The natives have assured me that they mutually assist each other, and that several
engage together in the work of overturning a large tree. None of the mimosas have tap-roots;
thus the powerful tusks of the elephants, applied as crowbars at the roots, while others pull
at the branches with their trunks, will effect the destruction of a tree so large as to appear
invulnerable. The Ceylon elephant rarely possessing tusks, cannot destroy a tree thicker than
the thigh of an ordinary man.

In Ceylon, I have seldom met old bulls in parties--they are generally single or remain in pairs;
but, in Africa, large herds are met with, consisting entirely of bulls. I have frequently seen
sixteen or twenty splendid bulls together, presenting a show of ivory most exciting to a hunter.
The females in Africa congregate in vast herds of many hundreds, while in Ceylon the herds
seldom average more than ten.

The elephant is by far the most formidable of all animals, and the African variety is more
dangerous than the Indian, as it is next to impossible to kill it by the forehead shot. The
head is so peculiarly formed, that the ball either passes over the brain, or lodges in the
immensely solid bones and cartilages that contain the roots of the tusks. I have measured certainly
a hundred bull tusks, and I have found them buried in the head a depth of 24 inches. One large
tusk, that measured 7 ft. 8 in. in length, and 22 inches in girth, was imbedded in the head
a depth of 31 inches. This will convey an idea of the enormous size of the head, and of the
strength of bone and cartilage required to hold in position so great a weight, and to resist
the strain when the tusk is used as a lever to uproot trees.

The brain of an African elephant rests upon a plate of bone exactly above the roots of the
upper grinders; it is thus wonderfully protected from a front shot, as it lies so low that
the ball passes above it when the elephant raises his head, which he invariably does when in
anger, until close to the object of his attack.

The character of the country naturally influences the habits of the animals: thus, Africa being
more generally open than the forest-clad Ceylon, the elephant is more accustomed to activity,
and is much faster than the Ceylon variety. Being an old elephant-hunter of the latter island,
I was exceedingly interested in the question of variety of species, and I had always held the
opinion that the African elephant might be killed with the same facility as that of Ceylon,
by the forehead shot, provided that a sufficient charge of powder were used to penetrate the
extra thickness of the head. I have found, by much experience, that I was entirely wrong, and
that, although by CHANCE an African elephant may be killed by the front shot, it is the exception
to the rule. The danger of the sport is, accordingly, much increased, as it is next to impossible
to kill the elephant when in full charge, and the only hope of safety consists in turning him
by a continuous fire with heavy guns: this cannot always be effected.

I had a powerful pair of No. 10 polygroove rifles, made by Reilly of Oxford Street; they weighed
fifteen pounds, and carried seven drachms of powder without a disagreeable recoil. The bullet
was a blunt cone, one and a half diameter of the bore, and I used a mixture of nine-tenths
lead and one-tenth quicksilver for the hardening of the projectile. This is superior to all
mixtures for that purpose, as it combines hardness with extra weight; the lead must be melted
in a pot by itself to a red heat, and the proportion of quicksilver must be added a ladle-full
at a time, and stirred quickly with a piece of iron just in sufficient quantity to make three
or four bullets. If the quicksilver is subjected to a red heat in the large lead-pot, it will
evaporate. The only successful forehead shot that I made at an African elephant was shortly
after my arrival in the Abyssinian territory on the Settite river; this was in thick thorny
jungle, and an elephant from the herd charged with such good intention, that had she not been
stopped, she must have caught one of the party. When within about five yards of the muzzle,
I killed her dead by a forehead shot with a hardened bullet as described, from a Reilly No.
10 rifle, and we subsequently recovered the bullet in the VERTEBRAE OF THE NECK!

This extraordinary penetration led me to suppose that I should always succeed as I had done
in Ceylon, and I have frequently stood the charge of an African elephant until close upon me,
determined to give the forehead shot a fair trial, but I have ALWAYS failed, except in the
instance now mentioned; it must also be borne in mind that the elephant was a female, with
a head far inferior in size and solidity to that of the male.

The temple shot, and that behind the ear, are equally fatal in Africa as in Ceylon, provided
the hunter can approach within ten or twelve yards; but altogether the hunting is far more
difficult, as the character of the country does not admit of an approach sufficiently close
to guarantee a successful shot. In the forests of Ceylon an elephant can be stalked to within
a few paces, and the shot is seldom fired at a greater distance than ten yards: thus accuracy
of aim is insured; but in the open ground of Africa, an elephant can seldom be approached within
fifty yards, and should he charge the hunter, escape is most difficult. I never found African
elephants in good jungle, except once, and on that occasion I shot five, quite as quickly as
we should kill them in Ceylon.

The character of the sport must vary according to the character of the country; thus there
may be parts of Africa at variance with my description. I only relate my own experience.

Among other weapons, I had an extraordinary rifle that carried a half-pound percussion shell--this
instrument of torture to the hunter was not sufficiently heavy for the weight of the projectile;
it only weighed twenty pounds: thus, with a charge of ten drachms of powder, behind a HALF-POUND
shell, the recoil was so terrific, that I was spun round like a weathercock in a hurricane.
I really dreaded my own rifle, although I had been accustomed to heavy charges of powder and
severe recoil for many years.

None of my men could fire it, and it was looked upon with a species of awe, and was named "Jenna
el Mootfah" (child of a cannon) by the Arabs, which being far too long a name for practice,
I christened it the "Baby;" and the scream of this "Baby," loaded with a half-pound shell,
was always fatal. It was far too severe, and I very seldom fired it, but it is a curious fact,
that I never fired a shot with that rifle without bagging: the entire practice, during several
years, was confined to about twenty shots. I was afraid to use it; but now and then it was
absolutely necessary that it should be cleaned, after lying for months loaded. On such occasions
my men had the gratification of firing it, and the explosion was always accompanied by two
men falling on their backs (one having propped up the shooter), and the "Baby" flying some
yards behind them. This rifle was made by Holland, of Bond Street, and I could highly recommend
it for Goliath of Gath, but not for men of A.D. 1866.

The natives of Central Africa generally hunt the elephant for the sake of the flesh, and prior
to the commencement of the White Nile trade by the Arabs, and the discovery of the Upper White
Nile to the 5 degrees N. lat. by the expedition sent by Mehemet Ali Pasha, the tusks were considered
as worthless, and were treated as bones. The death of an elephant is a grand affair for the
natives, as it supplies flesh for an enormous number of people, also fat, which is the great
desire of all savages for internal and external purposes. There are various methods of killing
them. Pitfalls are the most common, but the wary old bulls are seldom caught in this manner.

The position chosen for the pit is, almost without exception, in the vicinity of a drinking
place, and the natives exhibit a great amount of cunning in felling trees across the usual
run of the elephants, and sometimes cutting an open pit across the path, so as to direct the
elephant by such obstacles into the path of snares. The pits are usually about twelve feet
long, and three feet broad, by nine deep; these are artfully made, decreasing towards the bottom
to the breadth of a foot. The general elephant route to the drinking place being blocked up,
the animals are diverted by a treacherous path towards the water, the route intersected by
numerous pits, all of which are carefully concealed by sticks and straw, the latter being usually
strewn with elephants' dung to create a natural effect.

Should an elephant, during the night, fall through the deceitful surface, his foot becomes
jammed in the bottom of the narrow grave, and he labours shoulder deep, with two feet in the
pitfall so fixed that extrication is impossible. Should one animal be thus caught, a sudden
panic seizes the rest of the herd, and in their hasty retreat one or more are generally victims
to the numerous pits in the vicinity. The old bulls never approach a watering place rapidly,
but carefully listen for danger, and then slowly advance with their warning trunks stretched
to the path before them; the delicate nerves of the proboscis at once detect the hidden snare,
and the victims to pitfalls are the members of large herds who, eager to push forward incautiously,
put their "foot into it," like shareholders in bubble companies. Once helpless in the pit,
they are easily killed with lances.

The great elephant hunting season is in January, when the high prairies are parched and reduced
to straw. At such a time, should a large herd of animals be discovered, the natives of the
entire district collect together to the number of perhaps a thousand men; surrounding the elephants
by embracing a considerable tract of country, they fire the grass at a given signal. In a few
minutes the unconscious elephants are surrounded by a circle of fire, which, however distant,
must eventually close in upon them. The men advance with the fire, which rages to the height
of twenty or thirty feet. At length the elephants, alarmed by the volumes of smoke and the
roaring of the flames, mingled with the shouts of the hunters, attempt an escape. They are
hemmed in on every side--wherever they rush, they are met by an impassable barrier of flames
and smoke, so stifling, that they are forced to retreat. Meanwhile the fatal circle is decreasing;
buffaloes and antelopes, likewise doomed to a horrible fate, crowd panic stricken to the centre
of the encircled ring, and the raging fire sweeps over all. Burnt and blinded by fire and smoke,
the animals are now attacked by the savage crowd of hunters, excited by the helplessness of
the unfortunate elephants thus miserably sacrificed, and they fall under countless spears.
This destructive method of hunting ruins the game of that part of Africa, and so scarce are
the antelopes, that, in a day's journey, a dozen head are seldom seen in the open prairie.

The next method of hunting is perfectly legitimate. Should many elephants be in the neighbourhood,
the natives post about a hundred men in as many large trees; these men are armed with heavy
lances specially adapted to the sport, with blades about eighteen inches long and three inches
broad. The elephants are driven by a great number of men towards the trees in which the spearmen
are posted, and those that pass sufficiently near are speared between the shoulders. The spear
being driven deep into the animal, creates a frightful wound, as the tough handle, striking
against the intervening branches of trees, acts as a lever, and works the long blade of the
spear within the elephant, cutting to such an extent that he soon drops from exhaustion.

The best and only really great elephant-hunters of the White Nile are the Bagara Arabs, on
about the 13 degree N. lat. These men hunt on horseback, and kill the elephant in fair fight
with their spears.

The lance is about fourteen feet long, of male bamboo; the blade is about fourteen inches long
by nearly three inches broad; this is as sharp as a razor. Two men, thus armed and mounted,
form the hunting party. Should they discover a herd, they ride up to the finest tusker and
single him from the others. One man now leads the way, and the elephant, finding himself pressed,
immediately charges the horse. There is much art required in leading the elephant, who follows
the horse with great determination, and the rider adapts his pace so as to keep his horse so
near the elephant that his attention is entirely absorbed with the hope of catching him. The
other hunter should by this tine have followed close to the elephant's heels, and, dismounting
when at full gallop with wonderful dexterity, he plunges his spear with both hands into the
elephant about two feet below the junction of the tail, and with all his force he drives the
spear about eight feet into his abdomen, and withdraws it immediately. Should he be successful
in his stab, he remounts his horse and flies, or does his best to escape on foot, should he
not have time to mount, as the elephant generally turns to pursue him. His comrade immediately
turns his horse, and, dashing at the elephant, in his turn dismounts, and drives his lance
deep into his intestines.

Generally, if the first thrust is scientifically given, the bowels protrude to such an extent
that the elephant is at once disabled. Two good hunters will frequently kill several out of
one herd; but in this dangerous hand-to-hand fight the hunter is often the victim. Hunting
the elephant on horseback is certainly far less dangerous than on foot, but although the speed
of the horse is undoubtedly superior, the chase generally takes place upon ground so disadvantageous,
that he is liable to fall, in which case there is little chance for either animal or rider.
So savage are the natural instincts of Africans, that they attend only to the destruction of
the elephant, and never attempt its domestication.

CHAPTER VIII.

IBRAHIM's RETURN.

Ibrahim returned from Gondokoro, bringing with him a large supply of ammunition. A wounded
man of Chenooda's people also arrived, the sole relic of the fight with the Latookas; he had
been left for dead, but had recovered, and for days and nights he had wandered about the country,
in thirst and hunger, hiding like a wild beast from the sight of human beings, his guilty conscience
marking every Latooka as an enemy. As a proof of the superiority of the natives to the Khartoumers,
he had at length been met by some Latookas, and not only was well treated and fed by their
women, but they had guided him to Ibrahim's camp.

The black man is a curious anomaly, the good and bad points of human nature bursting forth
without any arrangement, like the flowers and thorns of his own wilderness. A creature of impulse,
seldom actuated by reflection, the black man astounds by his complete obtuseness, and as suddenly
confounds you by an unexpected exhibition of sympathy. From a long experience with African
savages, I think it is as absurd to condemn the negro in toto, as it is preposterous to compare
his intellectual capacity with that of the white man. It is unfortunately the fashion for one
party to uphold the negro as a superior being, while the other denies him the common powers
of reason. So great a difference of opinion has ever existed upon the intrinsic value of the
negro, that the very perplexity of the question is a proof that he is altogether a distinct
variety. So long as it is generally considered that the negro and the white man are to be governed
by the same laws and guided by the same management, so long will the former remain a thorn
in the side of every community to which he may unhappily belong. When the horse and the ass
shall be found to match in double harness, the white man and the African black will pull together
under the same regime. It is the grand error of equalizing that which is unequal, that has
lowered the negro character, and made the black man a reproach.

In his savage home, what is the African? Certainly bad; but not so bad as white men would (I
believe) be under similar circumstances. He is acted upon by the bad passions inherent in human
nature, but there is no exaggerated vice, such as is found in civilized countries. The strong
takes from the weak, one tribe fights the other--do not perhaps we in Europe?--these are the
legitimate acts of independent tribes, authorized by their chiefs. They mutually enslave each
other--how long is it since America and WE OURSELVES ceased to be slaveholders? He is callous
and ungrateful--in Europe is there no ingratitude?

He is cunning and a liar by nature--in Europe is all truth and sincerity? Why should the black
man not be equal to the white? He is as powerful in frame, a why should he not be as exalted
in mind?

In childhood I believe the negro to be in advance, in intellectual quickness, of the white
child of a similar age, but the mind does not expand--it promises fruit, but does not ripen;
and the negro man has grown in body, but not advanced in intellect.

The puppy of three months old is superior in intellect to a child of the same age, but the
mind of the child expands, while that of the dog has arrived at its limit. The chicken of the
common fowl has sufficient power and instinct to run in search of food the moment that it leaves
the egg, while the young of the eagle lies helpless in its nest; but the young eagle outstrips
the chicken in the course of time. The earth presents a wonderful example of variety in all
classes of the human race, the animal and vegetable kingdoms. People, beasts, and plants belonging
to distinct classes, exhibit special qualities and peculiarities. The existence of many hundred
varieties of dogs cannot interfere with the fact that they belong to one genus: the greyhound,
pug, bloodhound, pointer, poodle, mastiff, and toy terrier, are all as entirely different in
their peculiar instincts as are the varieties of the human race. The different fruits and flowers
continue the example;--the wild grapes of the forest are grapes, but although they belong to
the same class, they are distinct from the luscious "Muscatel;" and the wild dog-rose of the
hedge, although of the same class, is inferior to the moss-rose of the garden.

From fruits and flowers we may turn to insect life, and, watch the air teeming with varieties
of the same species, the thousands of butterflies and beetles, the many members of each class
varying in instincts and peculiarities. Fishes, and even shellfish, all exhibit the same arrangement,--that
every group is divided into varieties all differing from each other, and each distinguished
by some peculiar excellence or defect.

In the great system of creation that divided races and subdivided them according to mysterious
laws, apportioning special qualities to each, the varieties of the human race exhibit certain
characters and qualifications which adapt them for specific localities. The natural character
of those races will not alter with a change of locality, but the instincts of each race will
be developed in any country where they may be located. Thus, the English are as English in
Australia, India, and America, as they are in England, and in every locality they exhibit the
industry and energy of their native land; even so the African will remain negro in all his
natural instincts, although transplanted to other soils; and those natural instincts being
a love of idleness and savagedom, he will assuredly relapse into an idle and savage state,
unless specially governed and forced to industry.

The history of the negro has proved the correctness of this theory. In no instance has he evinced
other than a retrogression, when once freed from restraint. Like a horse without harness, he
runs wild, but, if harnessed, no animal is more useful. Unfortunately, this is contrary to
public opinion in England, where the vox populi assumes the right of dictation upon matters
and men in which it has had no experience. The English insist upon their own weights and measures
as the scales for human excellence, and it has been decreed by the multitude, inexperienced
in the negro personally, that he has been a badly-treated brother; that he is a worthy member
of the human family, placed in an inferior position through the prejudice and ignorance of
the white man, with whom he should be upon equality.

The negro has been, and still is, thoroughly misunderstood. However severely we may condemn
the horrible system of slavery, the results of emancipation have proved that the negro does
not appreciate the blessings of freedom, nor does he show the slightest feeling of gratitude
to the hand that broke the rivets of his fetters. His narrow mind cannot embrace that feeling
of pure philanthropy that first prompted England to declare herself against slavery, and he
only regards the antislavery movement as a proof of his own importance. In his limited horizon
he is himself the important object, and, as a sequence to his self-conceit, he imagines that
the whole world is at issue concerning the black man. The negro, therefore, being the important
question, must be an important person, and he conducts himself accordingly--he is far too great
a man to work. Upon this point his natural character exhibits itself most determinedly. Accordingly,
he resists any attempt at coercion; being free, his first impulse is to claim an equality with
those whom he lately served, and to usurp a dignity with absurd pretensions, that must inevitably
insure the disgust of the white community. Ill-will thus engendered, a hatred and jealousy
is established between the two races, combined with the errors that in such conditions must
arise upon both sides. The final question remains, Why was the negro first introduced into
our colonies--and to America?

The SUN is the great arbitrator between the white and the black man. There are productions
necessary to civilized countries, that can alone be cultivated in tropical climates, where
the white man cannot live if exposed to labour in the sun. Thus, such fertile countries as
the West Indies and portions of America being without a native population, the negro was originally
imported as a slave to fulfil the conditions of a labourer. In his own country he was a wild
savage, and enslaved his brother man; he thus became a victim to his own system; to the institution
of slavery that is indigenous to the soil of Africa, and that has NOT BEEN TAUGHT TO THE AFRICAN
BY THE WHITE MAN, as is currently reported, but that has ever been the peculiar characteristic
of African tribes.

In his state of slavery the negro was compelled to work, and, through his labour, every country
prospered where he had been introduced. He was suddenly freed; and from that moment he refused
to work, and instead of being a useful member of society, he not only became a useless burden
to the community, but a plotter and intriguer, imbued with a deadly hatred to the white man
who had generously declared him free.

Now, as the negro was originally imported as a labourer, but now refuses to labour, it is self-evident
that he is a lamentable failure. Either he must be compelled to work, by some stringent law
against vagrancy, or those beautiful countries that prospered under the conditions of negro
forced industry must yield to ruin, under negro freedom and idle independence. For an example
of the results look to St. Domingo!

Under peculiar guidance, and subject to a certain restraint, the negro may be an important
and most useful being; but if treated as an Englishman, he will affect the vices but none of
the virtues of civilization, and his natural good qualities will be lost in his attempts to
become a "white man."

Revenons a nos moutons noirs. It was amusing to watch the change that took place in a slave
that had been civilized (?) by the slave-traders. Among their parties there were many blacks
who had been captured, and who enjoyed the life of slave-hunting--nothing appeared so easy
as to become professional in cattle razzias and kidnapping human beings, and the first act
of the slave was to procure a slave for himself! All the best slave-hunters, and the boldest
and most energetic scoundrels, were the negroes who had at one time themselves been kidnapped.
These fellows aped a great and ridiculous importance. On the march they would seldom condescend
to carry their own guns; a little slave boy invariably attended to his master, keeping close
to his heels, and trotting along on foot during a long march, carrying a musket much longer
than himself: a woman generally carried a basket with a cooking-pot, and a gourd of water and
provisions, while a hired native carried the soldier's change of clothes and oxhide upon which
he slept. Thus the man who had been kidnapped became the kidnapper, and the slave became the
master, the only difference between him and the Arab being an absurd notion of his own dignity.
It was in vain that I attempted to reason with them against the principles of slavery: they
thought it wrong when they were themselves the sufferers, but were always ready to indulge
in it when the preponderance of power lay upon their side.

Among Ibrahim's people, there was a black named Ibrahimawa. This fellow was a native of Bornu,
and had been taken when a boy of twelve years old and sold at Constantinople; he formerly belonged
to Mehemet Ali Pasha; he had been to London and Paris, and during the Crimean war he was at
Kertch. Altogether he was a great traveller, and he had a natural taste for geography and botany,
that marked him as a wonderful exception to the average of the party. He had run away from
his master in Egypt, and had been vagabondizing about in Khartoum in handsome clothes, negro-like,
persuading himself that the public admired him, and thought that he was a Bey. Having soon
run through his money, he had engaged himself to Koorshid Aga to serve in his White Nile expedition.

He was an excellent example of the natural instincts of the negro remaining intact under all
circumstances. Although remarkably superior to his associates, his small stock of knowledge
was combined with such an exaggerated conceit, that he was to me a perpetual source of amusement,
while he was positively hated by his comrades, both by Arabs and blacks, for his overbearing
behaviour. Having seen many countries, he was excessively fond of recounting his adventures,
all of which had so strong a colouring of the "Arabian Nights," that he might have been the
original "Sinbad the Sailor." His natural talent for geography was really extraordinary; he
would frequently pay me a visit, and spend hours in drawing maps with a stick upon the sand,
of the countries he had visited, and especially of the Mediterranean, and the course from Egypt
and Constantinople to England. Unfortunately, some long story was attached to every principal
point of the voyage. The descriptions most interesting to me were those connected with the
west bank of the White Nile, as he had served some years with the trading party, and had penetrated
through the Makkarika, a cannibal tribe, to about two hundred miles west of Gondokoro. Both
he and many of Ibrahim's party had been frequent witnesses to acts of cannibalism, during their
residence among the Makkarikas. They described these cannibals as remarkably good people, but
possessing a peculiar taste for dogs and human flesh. They accompanied the trading party in
their razzias, and invariably ate the bodies of the slain. The traders complained that they
were bad associates, as they insisted upon killing and eating the children which the party
wished to secure as slaves: their custom was to catch a child by its ankles, and to dash its
head against the ground; thus killed, they opened the abdomen, extracted the stomach and intestines,
and tying the two ankles to the neck they carried the body by slinging it over the shoulder,
and thus returned to camp, where they divided it by quartering, and boiled it in a large pot.
Another man in my own service had been a witness to a horrible act of cannibalism at Gondokoro.

The traders had arrived with their ivory from the West, together with a great number of slaves;
the porters who carried the ivory being Makkarikas. One of the slave girls attempted to escape,
and her proprietor immediately fired at her with his musket, and she fell wounded; the ball
had struck her in the side. The girl was remarkably fat, and from the wound, a large lump of
yellow fat exuded. No sooner had she fallen, than the Makkarikas rushed upon her in a crowd,
and seizing the fat, they tore it from the wound in handfuls, the girl being still alive, while
the crowd were quarrelling for the disgusting prize. Others killed her with a lance, and at
once divided her by cutting off the head, and splitting the body with their lances, used as
knives, cutting longitudinally from between the legs along the spine to the neck.

Many slave women and their children who witnessed this scene, rushed panic-stricken from the
spot and took refuge in the trees. The Makkarikas seeing them in flight, were excited to give
chase, and pulling the children from their refuge among the branches, they killed several,
and in a short time a great feast was prepared for the whole party. My man, Mahommed, who was
an eyewitness, declared that he could not eat his dinner for three days, so great was his disgust
at this horrible feast.

Although my camp was entirely separate from that of Ibrahim, I was dreadfully pestered by his
people, who, knowing that I was well supplied with many articles of which they were in need,
came begging to my tent from morning till evening daily. To refuse was to insult them; and
as my chance of success in the exploration unfortunately depended upon my not offending the
traders I was obliged to be coldly civil, and nothing was refused them. Hardly a day passed
without broken guns being brought to me for repair; and having earned an unenviable celebrity
as a gunsmith, added to my possession of the requisite tools, I really had no rest, and I was
kept almost constantly at work.

One day Ibrahim was seized with a dangerous fever, and was supposed to be dying. Again I was
in request: and seeing that he was in a state of partial collapse, attended with the distressing
symptoms of want of action of the heart, so frequently fatal at this stage of the disease,
I restored him by a very powerful stimulant, and thereby gained renown as a physician, which,
although useful was extremely annoying, as my tent was daily thronged with patients, all of
whom expected miraculous cures for the most incurable diseases.

In this manner I gained a certain influence over the people, but I was constantly subjected
to excessive annoyances and disgust, occasioned by the conduct of their party towards the Latookas.
The latter were extremely unwise, being very independent and ready to take offence on the slightest
pretext, and the Turks, being now 140 strong, had no fear, and there appeared every probability
of hostilities. I was engaged in erecting huts, and in securing my camp; and although I offered
high payment, I could not prevail on the natives to work regularly. They invariably stipulated
that they were to receive their beads before they commenced work, in which case they, with
few exceptions, absconded with their advanced payment.

One day a native behaved in a similar manner to the Turks; he was, accordingly, caught, and
unmercifully beaten. Half an hour after, the nogara beat, and was answered by distant drums
from the adjacent villages. In about an hour, several thousand armed men, with shields, were
collected within half a mile of the Turks' camp, to avenge the insult that had been offered
to one of their tribe. However, the Turks' drum beat, and their whole force drew up to their
flag under arms outside their zareeba, and offered a determined front. I extract the following
entry from my journal. "These Turks are delightful neighbours; they will create a row, and
I shall be dragged into it in self-defence, as the natives will distinguish no difference in
a scrimmage, although they draw favourable comparisons between me and the Turks in times of
peace. Not a native came to work at the huts today; I therefore sent for the two chiefs, Commoro
and Moy, and had a long talk with them. They said that 'no Latooka should be beaten by common
fellows like the traders' men; that I was a great chief, and that if I chose to beat them they
would be content.' I gave them advice to keep quiet, and not to quarrel about trifles, as the
Turks would assuredly destroy the country should a fight commence.

"At the same time, I told them that they did not treat me properly: they came to me in times
of difficulty as a mediator, but although they knew I had always paid well for everything,
they gave me no supplies, and I was obliged to shoot game for my daily food, although they
possessed such enormous herds of cattle; neither could I procure materials or workpeople to
complete my camp. The parley terminated with an understanding that they were to supply me with
everything, and that they would put a stop to the intended fight. In the evening a goat was
brought, and a number of men appeared with grass and wood for sale for hut-building."

The following day, some of my people went to a neighbouring village to purchase corn, but the
natives insulted them, refusing to sell, saying that "we should die of hunger, as no one should
either give or sell us anything." This conduct must induce hostilities, as the Turks are too
powerful to be insulted. I am rather anxious lest some expedition may entail the departure
of the entire Turkish party, when the Latookas may seize the opportunity of attacking my innocents.
The latter are now so thoroughly broken to my severe laws, "thou shalt not take slaves; neither
cattle; nor fire a shot unless in self-defence," that they are resigned to the ignoble lot
of minding the donkeys, and guarding the camp.

Latooka was in a very disturbed state, and the excitement of the people was increasing daily.
Two of my men went into the town to buy grass, and, without any provocation, they were surrounded
by the natives, and the gun of one man was wrested from him; the other, after a tussle, in
which he lost his ramrod, beat a hasty retreat. A number of the soldiers immediately collected,
and I sent to the chief to demand the restoration of the gun, which was returned that evening.
I could literally procure nothing without the greatest annoyance and trouble.

My men, by their mutiny and desertion at Gondokoro, had reduced a well-armed expedition to
a mere remnant, dependent upon the company of a band of robbers for the means of advancing
through the country. Instead of travelling as I had arranged, at the head of forty-five well-armed
men, I had a miserable fifteen cowardly curs, who were employed in driving the baggage animals;
thus they would be helpless in the event of an attack upon the road. I accordingly proposed
to make a depot at Latooka, and to travel with only twelve donkeys and the lightest baggage.
It was a continual trial of temper and wounded pride. To give up the expedition was easy, but
to succeed at that period appeared hopeless; and success could only be accomplished by the
greatest patience, perseverance, and most careful tact and management of all parties. It was
most galling to be a hanger-on to this company of traders, who tolerated me for the sake of
presents, but who hated me in their hearts.

One afternoon some natives suddenly arrived from a country named Obbo with presents from their
chief for the Turks, and also for me. Ibrahim received several tusks while I received an iron
hoe (molote), as the news had already extended to that country, "that a white man was in Latooka,
who wanted neither slaves nor ivory." The natives reported, that a quantity of ivory existed
in their country, and Ibrahim determined to take a few men and pay it a visit, as the people
were said to be extremely friendly. I requested the leader to point out the exact position
of Obbo, which I found to be S.W. That was precisely the direction that I had wished to take;
thus an unexpected opportunity presented itself, and I determined to start without delay. On
the 2d of May, 1863, at 9 A.M. we left Latooka, delighted to change the scene of inaction.
I left five men in charge of my camp and effects, begging Commoro the chief to look after their
safety, and telling him that I had no fear of trusting all to his care. Savages will seldom
deceive you if thus placed upon their honour, this happy fact being one of the bright rays
in their darkness, and an instance of the anomalous character of the African.

The route lay across the park-like valley of Latooka for about eighteen miles, by which time
we reached the base of the mountain chain. There was no other path than the native track, which
led over a low range of granite rocks, forming a ridge about four hundred feet high. It was
with the greatest difficulty that the loaded donkeys could be hoisted over the numerous blocks
of granite that formed an irregular flight of steps, like the ascent of the great pyramid;
however, by pulling at their ears, and pushing behind, all except one succeeded in gaining
the summit; he was abandoned on the pass.

We were now in the heart of the mountains, and a beautiful valley, well wooded and about six
miles in width, lay before us, forming the basin of the Kanieti river that we had formerly
crossed at Wakkala, between Ellyria and Latooka.

Fording this stream in a rapid current, we crossed with difficulty, the donkeys wetting all
their loads. This was of no great consequence, as a violent storm suddenly overtook us and
soaked everyone as thoroughly as the donkeys' packs. A few wild plantains afforded leaves which
we endeavoured to use as screens, but the rain-drops were far too heavy for such feeble protection.
Within a mile of the river we determined to bivouac, as the evening had arrived, and in such
weather an advance was out of the question. The tent having been left at Latooka, there was
no help for it, and we were obliged to rest contented with our position upon about an acre
of clean rock plateau upon which we lighted an enormous fire, and crouched shivering round
the blaze. No grass was cut for the animals, as the men had been too busy in collecting firewood
sufficient to last throughout the night. Some fowls that we had brought from Latooka had been
drowned by the rain; thus my Mahommedan followers refused to eat them, as their throats had
not been cut. Not being so scrupulous, and wonderfully hungry in the cold rain, Mrs. Baker
and I converted them into a stew, and then took refuge, wet and miserable, under our untanned
ox-hides until the following morning. Although an ox-hide is not waterproof, it will keep out
a considerable amount of wet; but when thoroughly saturated, it is about as comfortable as
any other wet leather, with the additional charm of an exceedingly disagreeable raw smell,
very attractive to hyenas. The night being dark, several men thus lost their leather bags that
they had left upon the rock.

At 6 A.M., having passed a most uncomfortable night, we started, and after a march of about
two miles I was made extremely anxious for the donkeys, by being assured that it was necessary
to ascend a most precipitous granite hill, at least seven hundred feet high, that rose exactly
before us, and upon the very summit of which was perched a large village. There was no help
by means of porters; we led our horses with difficulty up the steep face of the rock--fortunately
they had never been shod, thus their firm hoofs obtained a hold where an iron shoe would have
slipped; and after extreme difficulty and a most tedious struggle, we found our party all assembled
on the flat summit. From this elevated point we had a superb view of the surrounding country,
and I took the compass bearing of the Latooka mountain Gebel Lafeet, N. 45 degrees east. The
natives of the village that we had now reached had nothing to sell but a few beans, therefore
without further delay we commenced the descent upon the opposite side, and at 2.40 P.M. we
reached the base, the horses and donkeys having scrambled over the large blocks of stone with
the greatest labour. At the foot of the hill the country was park-like and well wooded, although
there was no very large timber. Here the grass was two feet high and growing rapidly, while
at Latooka all was barren. Halted at 5.20 P.M. on the banks of a small running stream, a tributary
to the Kanieti. The night being fine we slept well; and the next morning at 6 A.M. we commenced
the most lovely march that I have ever made in Africa. Winding through the very bosom of the
mountains, well covered with forest until the bare granite peaks towered above all vegetation
to the height of about 5,000 feet, we continued through narrow valleys bordered by abrupt spurs
of the mountains from 1,700 to 2,000 feet high. On the peak of each was a village; evidently
these impregnable positions were chosen for security. At length the great ascent was to be
made, and for two hours we toiled up a steep zigzag pass. The air was most invigorating; beautiful
wild flowers, some of which were highly scented, ornamented the route, and innumerable wild
grape-vines hung in festoons from tree to tree. We were now in an elevated country on the range
of mountains dividing the lower lands of Latooka from the high lands of Obbo. We arrived at
the summit of the pass about 2,500 feet above the Latooka valley. In addition to the wild flowers
were numerous fruits, all good; especially a variety of custard apple, and a full-flavoured
yellow plum. The grapes were in most promising bunches, but unripe. The scenery was very fine;
to the east and southeast, masses of high mountains, while to the west and south were vast
tracts of park-like country of intense green. In this elevated region the season was much farther
advanced than in Latooka;-this was the mountain range upon which I had formerly observed that
the storms had concentrated; here the rainy season had been in full play for months, while
in Latooka everything was parched. The grass on the west side of the pass was full six feet
high. Although the ascent had occupied about two hours, the descent on the west side was a
mere trifle, and was effected in about fifteen minutes--we were on an elevated plateau that
formed the watershed between the east and west.

After a march of about twelve miles from the top of the pass, we arrived at the chief village
of Obbo. The rain fell in torrents, and, soaked to the skin, we crawled into a dirty hut. This
village was forty miles S.W. of Tarrangolle, my head-quarters in Latooka.

The natives of Obbo are entirely different to the Latookas, both in language and appearance.
They are not quite naked, except when going to war, on which occasion they are painted in stripes
of red and yellow; but their usual covering is the skin of an antelope or goat, slung like
a mantle across the shoulders. Their faces are well formed, with peculiarly fine-shaped noses.
The headdress of the Obbo is remarkably neat, the woolly hair being matted and worked with
thread into a flat form like a beaver's tail, and bound with a fine edge of raw hide to keep
it in shape. This, like the head-dress of Latooka, requires many years to complete.

From Obbo to the Southeast all is mountainous, the highest points of the chain rising to an
elevation of four or five thousand feet above the general level of the country; to the south,
although there are no actual mountains, but merely a few isolated hills, the country distinctly
rises.

The entire drainage is to the west and north-west, in which direction there is a very perceptible
inclination. The vegetation of Obbo, and the whole of the west side of the mountain range,
is different from that upon the east side; the soil is exceedingly rich, producing an abundance
of Guinea grass, with which the plains are covered. This country produces nine varieties of
yams, many of which grow wild in the forests. There is one most peculiar species, called by
the natives "Collolollo," that I had not met with in other countries. This variety produces
several tubers at the root, and also upon the stalk; it does not spread upon the ground, like
most of the vines that characterise the yams, but it climbs upon trees or upon any object that
may tempt its tendrils. From every bud upon the stalk of this vine springs a bulb, somewhat
kidney-shaped; this increases until, when ripe, it attains the average size of a potato.

So prolific is this plant, that one vine will produce about 150 yams: they are covered with
a fine skin of a greenish brown, and are in flavour nearly equal to a potato, but rather waxy.

There are many good wild fruits, including one very similar to a walnut in its green shell;
the flesh of this has a remarkably fine flavour, and the nut within exactly resembles a horse-chestnut
in size and fine mahogany colour. This nut is roasted, and, when ground and boiled, a species
of fat or butter is skimmed from the surface of the water: this is much prized by the natives,
and is used for rubbing their bodies, being considered as the best of all fats for the skin;
it is also eaten.

Among the best of the wild fruits is one resembling raisins; this grows in clusters upon a
large tree. Also a bright yellow fruit, as large as a Muscat grape, and several varieties of
plums. None of these are produced in Latooka. Ground-nuts are also in abundance in the forests;
these are not like the well-known African ground-nut of the west coast, but are contained in
an excessively hard shell. A fine quality of flax grows wild, but the twine generally used
by the natives is made from the fibre of a species of aloe. Tobacco grows to an extraordinary
size, and is prepared similarly to that of the Ellyria tribe.

When ripe, the leaves are pounded in a mortar and reduced to a pulp; the mass is then placed
in a conical mould of wood, and pressed. It remains in this until dry, when it presents the
shape of a loaf of sugar, and is perfectly hard. The tobacco of the Ellyria tribe is shaped
into cheeses, and frequently adulterated with cowdung. I had never smoked until my arrival
in Obbo, but having suffered much from fever, and the country being excessively damp, I commenced
with Obbo pipes and tobacco.

Every tribe has a distinct pattern of pipe; those of the Bari have wide trumpet-shaped mouths;
the Latooka are long and narrow; and the Obbo smaller and the neatest. All their pottery is
badly burned, and excessively fragile if wet. The water jars are well formed, although the
potter's wheel is quite unknown, and the circular form is obtained entirely by the hand. Throughout
the tribes of the White Nile, the articles of pottery are limited to the tobacco-pipe and the
water-jar: all other utensils are formed either of wood, or of gourd shells.

By observation, 1 determined the latitude of my camp at Obbo to be 4 degrees 02' N., 32 degrees
31' long. E., and the general elevation of the country 3,674 feet above the sea, the temperature
about 76 degrees F. The altitude of Latooka was 2,236 feet above the sea level: thus we were,
at Obbo, upon an elevated plateau, 1,438 feet above the general level of the country on the
east of the mountain range. The climate would be healthy were the country sufficiently populated
to war successfully against nature; but the rainfall continuing during ten months of the year,
from February to the end of November, and the soil being extremely fertile, the increase of
vegetation is too rapid, and the scanty population are hemmed in and overpowered by superabundant
herbage. This mass of foliage, and grasses of ten feet in height interwoven with creeping plants
and wild grape-vines, is perfectly impenetrable to man, and forms a vast jungle, inhabited
by elephants, rhinoceros, and buffaloes, whose ponderous strength alone can overcome it. There
are few antelopes, as those animals dislike the grass jungles, in which they have no protection
against the lion or the leopard, as such beasts of prey can approach them unseen. In the month
of January the grass is sufficiently dry to burn, but even at that period there is a quantity
of fresh green grass growing between the withered stems; thus the firing of the prairies does
not absolutely clear the country, but merely consumes the dry matter, and leaves a ruin of
charred herbage, rendered so tough by the burning, that it is quite impossible to ride without
cutting the skin from the horse's shins and shoulders. Altogether, it is a most uninteresting
country, as there is no possibility of traversing it except by the narrow footpaths made by
the natives.

The chief of Obbo came to meet us with several of his head men. He was an extraordinary-looking
man, about fifty-eight or sixty years of age; but, far from possessing the dignity usually
belonging to a grey head, he acted the buffoon for our amusement, and might have been a clown
in a pantomime.

The heavy storm having cleared, the nogaras beat, and our entertaining friend determined upon
a grand dance; pipes and flutes were soon heard gathering from all quarters, horns brayed,
and numbers of men and women began to collect in crowds, while old Katchiba, the chief, in
a state of great excitement, gave orders for the entertainment.

About a hundred men formed a circle; each man held in his left hand a small cup-shaped drum,
formed of hollowed wood, one end only being perforated, and this was covered with the skin
of the elephant's ear, tightly stretched. In the centre of the circle was the chief dancer,
who wore, suspended from his shoulders, an immense drum, also covered with the elephant's ear.
The dance commenced by all singing remarkably well a wild but agreeable tune in chorus, the
big drum directing the time, and the whole of the little drums striking at certain periods
with such admirable precision, that the effect was that of a single instrument. The dancing
was most vigorous, and far superior to anything that I had seen among either, Arabs or savages,
the figures varying continually, and ending with a "grand galop" in double circles, at a tremendous
pace, the inner ring revolving in a contrary direction to the outer; the effect of this was
excellent.

Although the men of Obbo wear a skin slung across their shoulders and loins, the women are
almost naked, and, instead of wearing the leather apron and tail of the Latookas, they are
contented with a slight fringe of leather shreds, about four inches long by two broad, suspended
from a belt. The unmarried girls are entirely naked; or, if they are sufficiently rich in finery,
they wear three or four strings of small white beads, about three inches in length, as a covering.
The old ladies are antiquated Eves, whose dress consists of a string round the waist, in which
is stuck a bunch of green leaves, the stalk uppermost. I have seen a few of the young girls
that were prudes indulge in such garments; but they did not appear to be fashionable, and were
adopted faute de mieux. One great advantage was possessed by this costume,--it was always clean
and fresh, and the nearest bush (if not thorny) provided a clean petticoat. When in the society
of these very simple and in demeanour ALWAYS MODEST Eves, I could not help reflecting upon
the Mosaical description of our first parents, "and they sewed fig-leaves together."

Some of the Obbo women were very pretty. The caste of feature was entirely different to that
of the Latookas, and a striking peculiarity was displayed in the finely arched noses of many
of the natives, which strongly reminded one of the Somauli tribes. It was impossible to conjecture
their origin, as they had neither traditions nor ideas of their past history.

The language is that of the Madi. There are three distinct languages--the Bari, the Latooka,
and the Madi, the latter country extending south of Obbo. A few of the words, most commonly
in use, will exemplify them :--

                Obbo.       Latooka.    Bari.

    Water.      Fee.        Cari.       Feeum.
    Fire.       Mite.       Nyeme.      Keemang.
    The Sun.    T'sean.     Narlong.    Karlong.
    A Cow.      Decang.     Nyeten.     Kittan.
    A Goat.     Decan.      Nyene.      Eddeen.
    Milk.       T'sarck.    Nalle.      Le.
    A Fowl.     Gweno.      Nakome.     Chokkore.

The Obbo natives were a great and agreeable change after the Latookas, as they never asked
for presents. Although the old chief, Katchiba, behaved more like a clown than a king, he was
much respected by his people. He holds his authority over his subjects as general rain maker
and sorcerer. Should a subject displease him, or refuse him a gift, he curses his goats and
fowls, or threatens to wither his crops, and the fear of these inflictions reduces the discontented.
There are no specific taxes, but he occasionally makes a call upon the country for a certain
number of goats and supplies. These are generally given, as Katchiba is a knowing old diplomatist,
and he tunes his demands with great judgment. Thus, should there be a lack of rain, or too
much, at the season for sowing the crops, he takes the opportunity of calling his subjects
together and explaining to them how much he regrets that their conduct has compelled him to
afflict them with unfavourable weather, but that it is their own fault. If they are so greedy
and so stingy that they will not supply him properly, how can they expect him to think of their
interests? He must have goats and corn. "No goats, no rain; that's our contract, my friends,"
says Katchiba. "Do as you like. I can wait; I hope you can." Should his people complain of
too much rain, he threatens to pour storms and lightning upon them for ever, unless they bring
him so many hundred baskets of corn, &c. &c. Thus he holds his sway.

No man would think of starting upon a journey without the blessing of the old chief; and a
peculiar "hocus pocus" is considered as necessary from the magic hands of Katchiba that shall
charm the traveller, and preserve him from all danger of wild animals upon the road. In case
of sickness he is called in, not as M.D. in our acceptation, but as "doctor of magic," and
he charms both the hut and the patient against death, with the fluctuating results that must
attend professionals even in sorcery. His subjects have the most thorough confidence in his
power; and so great is his reputation that distant tribes frequently consult him, and beg his
assistance as a magician. In this manner does old Katchiba hold his sway over his savage, but
credulous people; and so long has he imposed upon the public that I believe he has at length
imposed upon himself, and that he really believes he has the power of sorcery, notwithstanding
repeated failures. In order to propitiate him, his people frequently present him with the prettiest
of their daughters; and so constantly is he receiving additions to his domestic circle that
he has been obliged to extend his establishment to prevent domestic fracas among the ladies.
He has accordingly hit upon the practical expedient of keeping a certain number of wives in
each of his villages: thus, when he makes a journey through his territory, he is always at
home. This multiplicity of wives has been so successful that Katchiba has one hundred and sixteen
children living--another proof of sorcery in the eyes of his people. One of his wives had no
children, and she came to me to apply for medicine to correct some evil influence that had
lowered her in her husband's estimation. The poor woman was in great distress, and complained
that Katchiba was very cruel to her because she had been unable to make an addition to his
family, but that she was sure I possessed some charm that would raise her to the standard of
his other wives. I could not bet rid of her until I gave her the first pill that came to hand
from my medicine chest, and with this she went away contented.

Katchiba was so completely established in his country, not only as a magician, but as "pere
de famille," that every one of his villages was governed by one of his sons; thus the entire
government was a family affair. The sons of course believed in their father's power of sorcery,
and their influence as head men of their villages increased the prestige of the parent. Although
without an idea of a Supreme Being, the whole country bowed down to sorcery. It is a curious
distinction between faith and credulity;--these savages, utterly devoid of belief in a Deity,
and without a vestige of superstition, believed most devotedly that the general affairs of
life and the control of the elements were in the hands of their old chief, and therefore they
served him--not with a feeling of love, neither with a trace of religion, but with that material
instinct that always influences the savage; they propitiated him for the sake of what they
could obtain. It is thus almost unconquerable feeling, ever present in the savage mind, that
renders his conversion difficult; he will believe in nothing, unless he can obtain some specific
benefit from the object of his belief.

Savages can be ruled by two powers--"force," and "humbug;" accordingly, these are the instruments
made use of by those in authority: where the "force" is wanting, "humbug" is the weapon as
a "pis aller." Katchiba having no physical force, adopted cunning, and the black art controlled
the savage minds of his subjects. Strange does it appear, that these uncivilized inhabitants
of Central Africa should, although devoid of religion, believe implicitly in sorcery; giving
a power to man superhuman, although acknowledging nothing more than human. Practical and useful
magic is all that is esteemed by the savage, the higher branches would be unappreciated; and
spirit-rapping and mediums are reserved for the civilized (?) of England, who would convert
the black savages of Africa.

Notwithstanding his magic, Katchiba was not a bad man: he was remarkably civil, and very proud
at my having paid him a visit. He gave me much information regarding the country, but assured
me that I should not be able to travel south for many months, as it would be quite impossible
to cross the Asua river during the rainy season; he therefore proposed that I should form a
camp at Obbo, and reside there until the rains should cease. It was now May, thus I was invited
to postpone my advance south until December.

I determined to make a reconnaissance south towards the dreaded Asua, or, as the Obbo people
pronounced it, the Achua river, and to return to my fixed camp. Accordingly I arranged to leave
Mrs. Baker at Obbo with a guard of eight men, while I should proceed south without baggage,
excepting a change of clothes and a cooking pot. Katchiba promised to take the greatest care
of her, and to supply her with all she might require; offering to become personally responsible
for her safety; he agreed to place a spell upon the door of our hut, that nothing evil should
enter it during my absence. It was a snug little dwelling, about nine feet in diameter, and
perfectly round; the floor well cemented with cow-dung and clay, and the walls about four feet
six inches in height, formed of mud and sticks, likewise polished off with cow-dung. The door
had enlarged, and it was now a very imposing entrance of about four feet high, and a great
contrast to the surrounding hut or dog-kennel with two feet height of doorway.

On the 7th of May I started with three men, and taking a course south, I rode through a most
lovely country, within five miles of the base, and parallel with the chain of the Madi mountains.
There was abundance of beautiful flowers, especially of orchidaceous plants; the country was
exceedingly park-like and well wooded, but generally overgrown with grass then about six feet
high. After riding for about fourteen miles, one of the guides ran back, and reported elephants
to be on the road a little in advance. One of my mounted men offered to accompany me should
I wish to hunt them. I had no faith in my man, but I rode forward, and shortly observed a herd
of ten bull elephants standing together about sixty yards from the path. The grass was high,
but I rode through it to within about forty yards before I was observed; they immediately dashed
away, and I followed for about a mile at a trot, the ground being so full of holes and covered
with fallen trees concealed in the high grass, that I did not like to close until I should
arrive in a more favourable spot. At length I shot at full gallop past an immense fellow, with
tusks about five feet projecting from his jaws, and reining up, I fired with a Reilly No. 10
at the shoulder. He charged straight into me at the sound of the shot. My horse, Filfil, was
utterly unfit for a hunter, as he went perfectly mad at the report of a gun fired from his
back, and at the moment of the discharge he reared perpendicularly; the weight, and the recoil
of the rifle, added to the sudden rearing of the horse, unseated me, and I fell, rifle in hand,
backwards over his hind-quarters at the moment the elephant rushed in full charge upon the
horse. Away went "Filfil," leaving me upon the ground in a most inglorious position; and, fortunately,
the grass being high, the elephant lost sight of me and followed the horse instead of giving
me his attention.

My horse was lost; my man had never even accompanied me, having lagged behind at the very commencement
of the hunt. I had lost my rifle in the high grass, as I had been forced to make a short run
from the spot before I knew that the elephant had followed the horse; thus I was nearly an
hour before I found it, and also my azimuth compass that had fallen from my belt pouch. After
much shouting and whistling, my mounted man arrived, and making him dismount, I rode my little
horse Mouse, and returned to the path. My horse Filfil was lost. As a rule, hunting during
the march should be avoided, and I had now paid dearly for the indiscretion.

I reached the Atabbi river about eighteen miles from Obbo. This is a fine perennial stream
flowing from the Madi mountains towards the west, forming an affluent of the Asua river. There
was a good ford, with a hard gravel and rocky bottom, over which the horse partly waded and
occasionally swam. There were fresh tracks of immense herds of elephants with which the country
abounded, and I heard them trumpeting in the distance.

Ascending rising ground in perfectly open prairie on the opposite side of Atabbi, I saw a dense
herd of about two hundred elephants--they were about a mile distant, and were moving slowly
through the high grass. Just as I was riding along the path watching the immense herd, a Tetel
(hartebeest) sprang from the grass in which he had been concealed, and fortunately he galloped
across a small open space, where the high grass had been destroyed by the elephants. A quick
shot from the little Fletcher 24 rifle doubled him up; but, recovering himself almost immediately,
he was just disappearing when a shot from the left-hand barrel broke his back, to the intense
delight of my people. We accordingly bivouacked for the night, and the fires were soon blazing
upon a dry plateau of granite rock about seventy feet square that I had chosen for a resting-place.
In the saucer-shaped hollows of the rock was good clear water from the rain of the preceding
day; thus we had all the luxuries that could be desired--fire, food, and water. I seldom used
a bedstead unless in camp; thus my couch was quickly and simply made upon the hard rock, softened
by the addition of an armful of green boughs, upon which I laid an untanned ox-hide, and spread
my Scotch plaid. My cap formed my pillow, and my handy little Fletcher rifle lay by my side
beneath the plaid, together with my hunting knife; these faithful friends were never out of
reach either by night or day.

The cap was a solid piece of architecture, as may be supposed from its strength to resist the
weight of the head when used as a pillow. It was made by an Arab woman in Khartoum, according
to my own plan; the substance was about half an inch thick of dome palm leaves very neatly
twisted and sewn together. Having a flat top, and a peak both before and behind, the whole
affair was covered with tanned leather, while a curtain of the same material protected the
back of the neck from the sun. A strong chin strap secured the cap upon the head, and the "tout
ensemble" formed a very effective roof, completely sun-proof. Many people might have objected
to the weight, but I found it no disadvantage, and the cap being tolerably waterproof, I packed
my cartouche pouch and belt within it when inverted at night to form a pillow; this was an
exceedingly practical arrangement, as in case of an alarm I rose from my couch armed, capped
and belted, at a moment's notice.

On the following morning I started at daybreak, and after a march of about thirteen miles through
the same park-like and uninhabited country as that of the preceding day, I reached the country
of Farajoke, and arrived at the foot of a rocky hill, upon the summit of which was a large
village. I was met by the chief and several of his people leading a goat, which was presented
to me, and killed immediately as an offering, close to the feet of my horse. The chief carried
a fowl, holding it by the legs, with its head downwards; he approached my horse, and stroked
his fore-feet with the fowl, and then made a circle around him by dragging it upon the ground;
my feet were then stroked with the fowl in the same manner as those of the horse, and I was
requested to stoop, so as to enable him to wave the bird around my head; this completed, it
was also waved round my horse's head, who showed his appreciation of the ceremony by rearing
and lashing out behind, to the great discomfiture of the natives. The fowl did not appear to
have enjoyed itself during the operation; but a knife put an end to its troubles, as, the ceremony
of welcome being completed, the bird was sacrificed and handed to my headman. I was now conducted
to the village. It was defended by a high bamboo fence, and was miserably dirty, forming a
great contrast to the clean dwellings of the Bari and Latooka tribes. The hill upon which the
village was built was about eighty feet above the general level of the country, and afforded
a fine view of the surrounding landscape. On the east was the chain of Madi mountains, the
base well wooded, while to the south all was fine open pasturage of sweet herbage, about a
foot high, a totally different grass to the rank vegetation we had passed through. The country
was undulating, and every rise was crowned by a village. Although the name of the district
is Farajoke, it is comprised in the extensive country of Sooli, together with the Shoggo and
Madi tribes, all towns being under the command of petty chiefs. The general elevation of the
country was 3,966 feet above the sea-level, 292 feet higher than Obbo.

The chief of Farajoke, observing me engaged in taking bearings with the compass, was anxious
to know my object, which being explained, he volunteered all information respecting the country,
and assured me that it would be quite impossible to cross the Asua during the rainy season,
as it was a violent torrent, rushing over a rocky bed with such impetuosity, that no one would
venture to swim it. There was nothing to be done at this season, and however trying to the
patience, there was no alternative. Farajoke was within three days' hard marching of Faloro,
the station of Debono, that had always been my projected head-quarters; thus I was well advanced
upon my intended route, and had the season been propitious, I could have proceeded with my
baggage animals without difficulty.

The loss of my horse "Filfil" was a severe blow in this wild region, where beasts of burthen
were unknown, and I had slight hopes of his recovery, as lions were plentiful in the country
between Obbo and Farajoke; however, I offered a reward of beads and bracelets, and a number
of natives were sent by the chief to scour the jungles. There was little use in remaining at
Farajoke, therefore I returned to Obbo with my men and donkeys, accomplishing the whole distance
(thirty miles) in one day. I was very anxious about Mrs. Baker, who had been the representative
of the expedition at Obbo during my absence. Upon my approach through the forest, my well-known
whistle was immediately answered by the appearance of the boy Saat, who, without any greeting,
immediately rushed to the hut to give the intelligence that "Master was arrived."

I found my wife looking remarkably well, and regularly installed "at home." Several fat sheep
were tied by the legs to pegs in front of the hut; a number of fowls were pecking around the
entrance, and my wife awaited me on the threshold with a large pumpkin shell containing about
a gallon of native beer. "Dulce domum," although but a mud hut, the loving welcome made it
happier than a palace; and that draught of beer, or fermented mud, or whatever trash it might
be compared with in England, how delicious it seemed after a journey of thirty miles in the
broiling sun! and the fat sheep and the fowls all looked so luxurious. Alas!--for destiny--my
arrival cut short the existence of one being; what was joy to some was death to a sheep, and
in a few moments the fattest was slain in honour of master's return, and my men were busily
employed in preparing it for a general feast.

Numbers of people gathered round me: foremost among them was the old chief Katchiba, whose
self-satisfied countenance exhibited an extreme purity of conscience in having adhered to his
promise to act as guardian during my absence. Mrs. Baker gave him an excellent character; he
had taken the greatest care of her, and had supplied all the luxuries that had so much excited
my appetite on the first coup d'oeil of my home. He had been so mindful of his responsibility,
that he had placed some of his own sons as sentries over the hut both by day and night.

I accordingly made him a present of many beads and bracelets, and a few odds and ends, that
threw him into ecstacies: he had weak eyes, and the most valued present was a pair of sun-goggles,
which I fitted on his head, to his intense delight, and exhibited in a looking-glass--this
being likewise added to his gifts. I noticed that he was very stiff in the back, and he told
me that he had had a bad fall during my absence. My wife explained the affair. He had come
to her to declare his intention of procuring fowls for her from some distant village; but,
said he, "My people are not very good, and perhaps they will say that they have none; but if
you will lend me a horse, I will ride there, and the effect will impose upon them so much,
that they will not dare to refuse me." Now, Katchiba was not a good walker, and his usual way
of travelling was upon the back of a very strong subject, precisely as children are wont to
ride "pic-a-back." He generally had two or three spare men, who alternately acted as guides
and ponies, while one of his wives invariably accompanied him, bearing a large jar of beer,
with which it was said that the old chief refreshed himself so copiously during the journey,
that it sometimes became necessary for two men to carry him instead of one. This may have been
merely a scandalous report in Obbo; however, it appeared that Katchiba was ready for a start,
as usual accompanied by a Hebe with a jar of beer. Confident in his powers as a rider across
country on a man, he considered that he could easily ride a horse. It was in vain that my wife
had protested, and had prophesied a broken neck should he attempt to bestride the hitherto
unknown animal: to ride he was determined.

Accordingly my horse Tetel was brought, and Katchiba was assisted upon his back. The horse
recognising an awkward hand, did not move a step. "Now then," said Katchiba, "go on!" but Tetel,
not understanding the Obbo language, was perfectly ignorant of his rider's wishes. "Why won't
he go?" inquired Katchiba. "Touch him with your stick," cried one of my men; and acting upon
the suggestion, the old sorcerer gave him a tremendous whack with his staff. This was immediately
responded to by Tetel, who, quite unused to such eccentricities, gave a vigorous kick, the
effect of which was to convert the sorcerer into a spread eagle, flying over his head, and
landing very heavily upon the ground, amidst a roar of laughter from my men, in which I am
afraid Mrs. Baker was rude enough to join. The crest-fallen Katchiba was assisted upon his
legs, and feeling rather stunned, he surveyed the horse with great astonishment; but his natural
instincts soon prompted him to call for the jar of beer, and after a long draught from the
mighty cup, he regained his courage, and expressed an opinion that the horse was "too high,
as it was a long way to tumble down;" he therefore requested one of the "little horses;" these
were the donkeys. Accordingly he was mounted on a donkey, and held on by two men, one on either
side. Thus he started most satisfactorily and exceedingly proud. On his return the following
day, he said that the villagers had given him the fowls immediately, as he had told them that
he had thirty Turks staying with him on a visit, and that they would burn and plunder the country
unless they were immediately supplied. He considered this trifling deviation from fact as a
great stroke of diplomacy in procuring the fowls.

Six days after the loss of my horse, I was delighted to see him brought back by the natives
safe and well. They had hunted through an immense tract of country, and had found him grazing.
He was naturally a most vicious horse, and the natives were afraid to touch him; they had accordingly
driven him before them until they gained the path, which he then gladly followed. The saddle
was in its place, but my sword was gone.

The rains were terrific; the mornings were invariably fine, but the clouds gathered upon the
mountains soon after noon and ended daily in a perfect deluge. Not being able to proceed south,
I determined to return to my head-quarters at Latooka, and to wait for the dry season. I had
made the reconnaissance to Farajoke, in latitude 3 degrees 32', and I saw my way clear for
the future, provided my animals should remain in good condition. Accordingly, on the 21st of
May, we started for Latooka in company with Ibrahim and his men, who were thoroughly sick of
the Obbo climate.

Before parting, a ceremony had to be performed by Katchiba. His brother was to be our guide,
and he was to receive power to control the elements as deputy-magician during the journey,
lest we should be wetted by the storms, and the torrents should be so swollen as to be impassable.

With great solemnity Katchiba broke a branch from a tree, upon the leaves of which he spat
in several places. This branch, thus blessed with holy water, was laid upon the ground, and
a fowl was dragged around it by the chief; and our horses were then operated on precisely in
the same manner as had been enacted at Farajoke. This ceremony completed, he handed the branch
to his brother (our guide), who received it with much gravity, in addition to a magic whistle
of antelope's horn that he suspended from his neck. All the natives wore whistles similar in
appearance, being simply small horns in which they blew, the sound of which was considered
either to attract or to drive away rain, at the option of the whistler. No whistle was supposed
to be effective unless it had been blessed by the great magician Katchiba. The ceremony being
over, all commenced whistling with all their might; and taking leave of Katchiba, with an assurance
that we should again return, we started amidst a din of "toot too too-ing" upon our journey.
Having an immense supply of ammunition at Latooka, I left about 200 lbs. of shot and ball with
Katchiba; therefore my donkeys had but little to carry, and we travelled easily.

That night we bivouacked at the foot of the east-side of the pass at about half-past five.
Ibrahimawa, the Bornu man whom I have already described as the amateur botanist, had become
my great ally in searching for all that was curious and interesting. Proud of his knowledge
of wild plants, no sooner was the march ended than he commenced a search in the jungles for
something esculent.

We were in a deep gorge on a steep knoll bounded by a ravine about sixty feet of perpendicular
depth, at the bottom of which flowed a torrent. This was an excellent spot for a camp, as no
guards were necessary upon the side thus protected. Bordering the ravine were a number of fine
trees covered with a thorny stem creeper, with leaves much resembling those of a species of
yam. These were at once pronounced by Ibrahimawa to be a perfect god-send, and after a few
minutes' grubbing he produced a basketful of fine-looking yams. In an instant this display
of food attracted a crowd of hungry people, including those of Ibrahim and my own men, who,
not being botanists, had left the search for food to Ibrahimawa, but who determined to share
the tempting results. A rush was made at his basket, which was emptied on the instant; and
I am sorry to confess that the black angel Saat was one of the first to seize three or four
of the largest yams, which he most unceremoniously put in a pot and deliberately cooked as
though he had been the botanical discoverer. How often the original discoverer suffers, while
others benefit from his labours! Ibrahimawa, the scientific botanist, was left without a yam,
after all his labour of grubbing up a basketful. Pots were boiling in all directions, and a
feast in store for the hungry men who had marched twenty miles without eating since the morning.

The yams were cooked; but I did not like the look of them, and seeing that the multitude were
ready, I determined to reserve a few for our own eating should they be generally pronounced
good. The men ate them voraciously. Hardly ten minutes had elapsed from the commencement of
the feast when first one and then another disappeared, and from a distance I heard a smothered
but unmistakeable sound, that reminded me of the lurching effect of a channel steamer upon
a crowd of passengers. Presently the boy Saat showed symptoms of distress, and vanished from
our presence; and all those that had dined off Ibrahimawa's botanical specimens were suffering
from a most powerful "vomi-purgatif." The angels that watch over scientific botanists had preserved
Ibrahimawa from all evil. He had discovered the yams, and the men had stolen them from him;
they enjoyed the fruits, while he gained an experience invaluable at their expense. I was quite
contented to have waited until others had tried them before I made the experiment. Many of
the yam tribe are poisonous; there is one variety much liked at Obbo, but which is deadly in
its effects should it be eaten without a certain preparation. It is first scraped, and then
soaked in a running stream for a fortnight. It is then cut into thin slices, and dried in the
sun until quite crisp; by this means it is rendered harmless. The dried slices are stored for
use; and they are generally pounded in a mortar into flour, and used as a kind of porridge.

The sickness of the people continued for about an hour, during which time all kinds of invectives
were hurled against Ibrahimawa, and his botany was termed a gigantic humbug. From that day
he was very mild in his botanical conversation.

On the following morning we crossed the last range of rocky hills, and descended to the Latooka
valley. Up to this point, we had seen no game; but we had now arrived in the game country,
and shortly after our descent from the rocks we saw a herd of about twenty Tetel (hartebeest).
Unfortunately, just as I dismounted for the purpose of stalking them, the red flags of the
Turks attracted the attention of a large party of baboons, who were sitting on the rocks, and
they commenced their hoarse cry of alarm, and immediately disturbed the Tetel. One of the men,
in revenge, fired a long shot at a great male, who was sitting alone upon a high rock, and
by chance the ball struck him in the head. He was an immense specimen of the Cynocephalus,
about as large as a mastiff, but with a long brown mane like that of the lion. This mane is
much prized by the natives as an ornament. He was immediately skinned, and the hide was cut
into long strips about three inches broad: the portion of mane adhering had the appearance
of a fringe; each strip was worn as a scarf; thus one skin will produce about eight or ten
ornaments.

I sent my men to camp, and, accompanied by Richarn, mounted on my horse "Mouse," I rode through
the park-like ground in quest of game. I saw varieties of antelopes, including the rare and
beautiful maharif; but all were so wild, and the ground so open, that I could not get a shot.
This was the more annoying, as the maharif was an antelope that I believed to be a new species.
It had often disappointed me; for although I had frequently seen them on the south-west frontier
of Abyssinia, I had never been able to procure one, owing to their extreme shyness, and to
the fact of their inhabiting open plains, where stalking was impossible. I had frequently examined
them with a telescope, and had thus formed an intimate acquaintance with their peculiarities.
The maharif is very similar to the roan antelope of South Africa, but is mouse colour, with
black and white stripes upon the face. The horns are exactly those of the roan antelope, very
massive and corrugated, bending backwards to the shoulders. The withers are extremely high,
which give a peculiarly heavy appearance to the shoulders, much heightened by a large and stiff
black mane like that of a hog-maned horse. I have a pair of horns in my possession that I obtained
through the assistance of a lion, who killed the maharif while drinking near my tent; unfortunately,
the skin was torn to pieces, and the horns and skull were all that remained.

Failing, as usual, in my endeavours to obtain a shot, I made a considerable circuit, and shortly
observed the tall heads of giraffes towering over the low mimosas. There is no animal in nature
so picturesque in his native haunts as the giraffe. His food consists of the leaves of trees,
some qualities forming special attractions, especially the varieties of the mimosa, which,
being low, permit an extensive view to his telescopic eyes. He has a great objection to high
forests. The immense height of the giraffe gives him a peculiar advantage, as he can command
an extraordinary range of vision, and thereby be warned against the approach of his two great
enemies, man and the lion. No animal is more difficult to stalk than the giraffe, and the most
certain method of hunting is that pursued by the Hamran Arabs, on the frontiers of Abyssinia,
who ride him down and hamstring him with the broadsword at full gallop. A good horse is required,
as, although the gait of a giraffe appears excessively awkward from the fact of his moving
the fore and hind legs of one side simultaneously, he attains a great pace, owing to the length
of his stride, and his bounding trot is more than a match for any but a superior horse.

The hoof is as beautifully proportioned as that of the smallest gazelle, and his lengthy legs
and short back give him every advantage for speed and endurance. There is a rule to be observed
in hunting the giraffe on horseback: the instant he starts, he must be pressed--it is the speed
that tells upon him, and the spurs must be at work at the very commencement of the hunt, and
the horse pressed along at his best pace; it must be a race at top speed from the start, but,
should the giraffe be allowed the slightest advantage for the first five minutes, the race
will be against the horse.

I was riding "Filfil," my best horse for speed, but utterly useless for the gun. I had a common
regulation-sword hanging on my saddle in lieu of the long Arab broadsword that I had lost at
Obbo, and starting at full gallop at the same instant as the giraffes, away we went over the
beautiful park. Unfortunately Richarn was a bad rider, and I, being encumbered with a rifle,
had no power to use the sword. I accordingly trusted to ride them down and to get a shot, but
I felt that the unsteadiness of my horse would render it very uncertain. The wind whistled
in my ears as we flew along over the open plain. The grass was not more than a foot high, and
the ground hard; the giraffes about four hundred yards distant steaming along, and raising
a cloud of dust from the dry earth, as on this side of the mountains there had been no rain.
Filfil was a contradiction; he loved a hunt and had no fear of wild animals, but he went mad
at the sound of a gun. Seeing the magnificent herd of about fifteen giraffes before him, the
horse entered into the excitement and needed no spur--down a slight hollow, flying over the
dry buffalo holes, now over a dry watercourse and up the incline on the other side--then again
on the level, and the dust in my eyes from the cloud raised by the giraffes showed that we
were gaining in the race; misericordia!--low jungle lay before us--the giraffes gained it,
and spurring forward through a perfect cloud of dust now within a hundred yards of the game
we shot through the thorny bushes. In another minute or two I was close up, and a splendid
bull giraffe was crashing before me like a locomotive obelisk through the mimosas, bending
the elastic boughs before him in his irresistible rush, which sprang back with a force that
would have upset both horse and rider had I not carefully kept my distance. The jungle seemed
alive with the crowd of orange red, the herd was now on every side, as I pressed the great
bull before me. Oh for an open plain! I was helpless to attack, and it required the greatest
attention to keep up the pace through the thick mimosas without dashing against their stems
and branches. The jungle became thicker, and although I was in the middle of the herd and within
ten yards of several giraffes, I could do nothing. A mass of thick and tangled thorns now received
them, and closed over the hardly-contested race--I was beaten.

Never mind, it was a good hunt--first-rate--but where was my camp? It was nearly dark, and
I could just distinguish the pass in the distance, by which we had descended the mountain;
thus I knew the direction but I had ridden about three miles, and it would be dark before I
could return. However, I followed the heel tracks of the herd of giraffes. Richarn was nowhere.
Although I had lost the race, and was disappointed, I now consoled myself that it was all for
the best; had I killed a giraffe at that hour and distance from camp, what good would it have
been? I was quite alone; thus who could have found it during the night? and before morning
it would have been devoured by lions and hyenas; inoffensive and beautiful creatures, what
a sin it appeared to destroy them uselessly! With these consoling and practical reflections
I continued my way, until a branch of hooked thorn fixing in my nose disturbed the train of
ideas and persuaded me that it was very dark, and that I had lost my way, as I could no longer
distinguish either the tracks of the giraffes or the position of the mountains. Accordingly
I fired my rifle as a signal, and soon after I heard a distant report in reply, and the blaze
of a fire shot up suddenly in the distance on the side of the mountain. With the help of this
beacon I reached the spot where our people were bivouacked; they had lighted the beacon on
a rock about fifty feet above the level, as although some twenty or thirty fires were blazing,
they had been obscured by the intervening jungle. I found both my wife and my men in an argumentative
state as to the propriety of my remaining alone so late in the jungle; however, I also found
dinner ready; the angareps (stretcher bedsteads) arranged by a most comfortable blazing fire,
and a glance at the star-lit heavens assured me of a fine night--what more can man wish for?--wife,
welcome, food, fire, and fine weather?

The bivouac in the wilderness has many charms; there is a complete independence--the sentries
are posted, the animals picketed and fed, and the fires arranged in a complete circle around
the entire party--men, animals, and luggage all within the fiery ring; the sentries alone being
on the outside. There is a species of ironwood that is very inflammable, and being oily, it
burns like a torch; this grew in great quantities, and the numerous fires fed with this vigorous
fuel enlivened the bivouac with a continual blaze. My men were busy, baking their bread. On
such occasions an oven is dispensed with. A prodigious fire is made while the dough is being
prepared; this, when well moistened, is formed into a cake about two feet in diameter, but
not thicker than two inches. The fire being in a fit state of glowing ash, a large hole is
scraped in the centre, in which the flat cake is laid, and the red-hot embers are raked over
it; thus buried it will bake in about twenty minutes, but the dough must be exceedingly moist
or it will burn to a cinder.

On the following day we arrived at Latooka, where I found everything in good order at the depot,
and the European vegetables that I had sown were all above ground. Commoro and a number of
people came to meet us.

There had been but little rain at Latooka since we left, although it had been raining heavily
at Obbo daily, and there was no difference in the dry sandy plain that surrounded the town,
neither was there any pasturage for the animals except at a great distance.

The day after my arrival, Filfil was taken ill and died in a few hours. Tetel had been out
of condition ever since the day of his failure during the elephant hunt, and he now refused
his food.

Among the natives of Obbo, who had accompanied us to Latooka, was a man named Wani, who had
formerly travelled far to the south, and had offered to conduct Ibrahim to a country rich in
ivory that had never been visited by a trader: this man had accordingly been engaged as guide
arid interpreter. In an examination of Wani I discovered that the cowrie-shells were brought
from a place called "Magungo." This name I had previously heard mentioned by the natives, but
I could obtain no clue to its position. It was most important that I should discover the exact
route by which the cowries arrived from the south, as it would be my guide to that direction.
The information that I received from Wani at Latooka was excessively vague, and upon most slender
data I founded my conclusions so carefully that my subsequent discoveries have rendered most
interesting the first scent of the position which I eventually followed with success.

"His description of distance places Magungo on about the 2 degrees N. lat. The lake can be
no other than the 'N'yanza,' which, if the position of Magungo be correct, extends much farther
north than Speke had supposed. The 'white men' must be Arab traders who bring cowries from
Zanzibar. I shall take the first opportunity to push for Magungo. I imagine that country belongs
to Kamrasi's brother, as Wani says the king has a brother who is king of a powerful country
on the west bank of the Nile but that they are ever at war with each other.

"I examined another native who had been to Magungo to purchase Simbi (the cowrie-shell); he
says that a white man formerly arrived there annually, and brought a donkey with him in a boat;
that he disembarked his donkey and rode about the country, dealing with the natives, and bartering
cowries and brass-coil bracelets. This man had no firearms, but wore a sword. The king of Magungo
was called 'Cherrybambi.'"

This information was the first clue to the facts that I subsequently established, and the account
of the white men (Arabs) arriving at Magungo was confirmed by the people of that country twelve
months after I obtained this vague information at Latooka.

Arabs, being simply brown, are called WHITE men by the blacks of these countries.

CHAPTER IX.

THE TURKS ATTACK KAYALA.

On the 30th May, about an hour before daybreak, I was awoke by a rattle of musketry, which
continued some time in irregular volleys, and subsided into a well-sustained and steady fire
in single shots. On leaving my hut, I found the camp of Koorshid's people almost empty, while
my own men were climbing on the roofs of their huts to obtain a view towards the west. Nothing
was in sight, although the firing still continued at a distance of about a mile, apparently
on the other side of a belt of trees. I now heard that Koorshid's people had started at between
three and four o'clock that morning, by Commoro's request, to attack a neighbouring town that
had been somewhat rebellious. The firing continued for about two hours, when it suddenly ceased,
and I shortly saw with a telescope the Turks' red ensign emerge from the forest, and we heard
the roll of their drum, mingled with the lowing of oxen and the bleating of sheep. Upon nearer
approach, I remarked a considerable body of men, and a large herd of cattle and sheep driven
by a number of Latookas, while a knot of Turks carried something heavy in their arms.

They soon arrived, with about 2,000 head of cattle and sheep; but they had lost one of their
men, killed in the fight, and his body they carried home for interment. It happened to be about
the best man of the party; really a very civil fellow, and altogether rather a pleasant robber.
At Commoro's instigation, the Turks had attacked the town of Kayala; but the Latookas had fought
so well, that the Turks found it impossible to capture the town, which was, as usual, protected
by iron-wood palisades, upon which their bullets harmlessly flattened. Not only the Latooka
men had fought well, but their women broke up their grinding-stones and defended the entrance
by pelting their assailants with the fragments; several of the Turks were wounded by the stones
thrown with such force by these brawny Amazons that some of the gun-barrels were indented.
Many of these brave women had been shot by the dastardly Turks, and one was in the act of being
carried off by the "pleasant robber," when a native, running to her rescue, drove his spear
through his chest and killed him on the spot. Unfortunately for the Latookas, some of their
cattle had left the town to pasture just before the attack took place; these were captured
by the Turks, but not one hostile foot had been able to penetrate their town. On the following
day the party were busily engaged in dividing the spoil, one third belonging to the men as
a bonus, while the remainder were the property of the traders' establishment, or "Meri" (government),
as they term the proprietor. This portion was to be sent to Obbo as a place of security and
good pasturage, and the men were to engage in other razzias in Latooka, and to collect a large
number of cattle to be driven south to exchange for ivory. Koorshid's camp was a scene of continual
uproar, the men quarrelling over the division of the spoil.

Journal--June 2nd.--The Turks are now busy buying and selling, each man disposing of his share
of the stolen cattle according to his wants: one exchanges a cow to the natives for corn and
meat; another slaughters an ox, and retails small portions for merissa (beer), fowls, &c.,
the natives flocking to the camp like vultures scenting flesh; others reserve their cattle
for the purpose of purchasing the daughters of the natives for slaves under the name of wives,
whom they will eventually sell in Khartoum for from twenty to thirty dollars each. My men look
on in dismay at the happiness of their neighbours: like

    "A Peri weeping at the gate
     Of Eden, stood disconsolate,"

so may they be seen regarding the adjoining paradise, where meat is in profusion, sweetened
by being stolen; but, alas! their cruel master does not permit them these innocent enjoyments.

Everything may be obtained for cattle as payment in this country. The natives are now hard
at work making zareebas (kraals) for the cattle stolen from their own tribe and immediate neighbours,
for the sake of two or three bullocks as remuneration to be divided among more than a hundred
men. They are not deserving of sympathy; they are worse than vultures, being devoid of harmony
even in the same tribe. The chiefs have no real control; and a small district, containing four
or five towns, club together and pillage the neighbouring province. It is not surprising that
the robber traders of the Nile turn this spirit of discord to their own advantage, and league
themselves with one chief, to rob another, whom they eventually plunder in his turn. The natives
say that sixty-five men and women were killed in the attack upon Kayala. All the Latookas consider
it a great disgrace that the Turks fired upon women. Among all tribes, from Gondokoro to Obbo,
a woman is respected, even in time of war. Thus, they are employed as spies, and become exceedingly
dangerous; nevertheless, there is a general understanding that no woman shall be killed. The
origin of this humane distinction arises, I imagine, from their scarcity. Where polygamy is
in force, women should be too dear to kill; the price of a girl being from five to ten cows,
her death is equal to the actual loss of that number.

Fortunately for my party, who were not cattle lifters, there was the usual abundance of game,
and I could always supply myself and people with delicious wild ducks and geese. We never were
tired of this light food as we varied their preparation. Sometimes I was able to procure a
goat, on which occasion a grand dish was made, the paunch being arranged as a Scotch "haggis"
of wild fowls' livers and flesh minced, with the usual additions. My garden was flourishing;
we had onions, beans, melons, yams, lettuce, and radishes, which had quickly responded to several
invigorating showers; the temperature was 85 degrees F in the shade during the hottest hours
of the day, and 72 degrees F at night.

Salt is not procurable in Latooka; the natives seldom use it, as it is excessively difficult
to make it in any quantity from the only two sources that will produce it; the best is made
from goat's dung; this is reduced ashes, and saturated; the water is then strained off, and
evaporated by boiling. Another quality is made of peculiar grass, with a thick fleshy stem,
something like sugarcane; the ashes of this produce salt, but by no means pure. The chief of
Latooka would eat a handful of salt greedily that I gave him from my large supply, and I could
purchase supplies with this article better than with beads.

On the 4th of June, Ibrahim and eighty-five men started for Obbo in charge of about 400 cows
and 1,000 goats. Shortly after their departure, a violent thunder-storm, attended with a deluge
of rain, swept over the country, and flooded the Latooka river and the various pools that formed
my game-preserves.

I looked forward to good duck-shooting on the morrow, as a heavy storm was certain to be followed
by large arrivals.

On the morning of the 5th, I was out at an early hour, and in a very short time I killed eight
ducks and geese. There was a certain pool surrounded by a small marsh within half a mile of
my camp, that formed the greatest attraction to the wild fowl. There were two hegleek trees
in this marsh; and it was merely necessary to stand beneath the shelter of either to insure
good sport, as the ducks continually arrived at the pool.

I was just entering into the sport with all my heart, when I heard a shot fired in the Turks'
camp, followed by loud yells, and I observed a crowd of Latookas rushing from the camp towards
their town. In a few moments later, I heard the Turks' drum, and I saw people running to and
fro, and the Latookas assembling from the neighbourhood with lances and shields, as though
preparing for a fray. I had only two men with me, and being nearly half a mile from camp, I
thought it advisable to hasten towards the spot, lest some contretemps should take place before
my arrival. Accordingly I hurried over the open plain, and shortly reached my camp. I found
my wife arranging the men at their posts, fearing a disturbance. They had seen me hastening
towards them, and I now went to the Turks' camp, that was close by, and inquired the cause
of alarm.

Never was I more disgusted. Already the vultures were swooping in circles above some object
outside the camp. It appeared that a native of Kayala (the town lately attacked by the Turks)
had visited Tarrangolle to inquire after a missing cow. The chiefs, Moy and Commoro, brought
him to the Turks' camp, merely to prove that he had no evil intention. No sooner was it announced
that he was a native of Kayala than the Turks declared he was a spy, and condemned him to be
shot. The two chiefs, Moy and Commoro, feeling themselves compromised by having brought the
man into such danger unwittingly, threw themselves before him, and declared that no harm should
befall him, as he belonged to them. Tearing them away by the combined force of many men, the
prisoner was immediately bound, and led forth by his bloodthirsty murderers to death. "Shoot
the spy!" was hardly pronounced, when a villain stepped forward, and placing the muzzle of
his musket close to his left breast, he fired.

The man dropped dead, thus murdered in cold blood. The natives rushed in crowds from the spot,
naturally supposing that a general massacre would follow so unprovoked an outrage. The body
was dragged by the heels a few paces outside the camp, and the vultures were its sextons within
a few minutes of the death.

It was with difficulty that I could restrain my temper under such revolting circumstances.
I felt that at an unlooked-for moment I might be compromised in some serious outbreak of the
natives, caused by the brutal acts of the traders. Already it was declared unsafe to venture
out shooting without ten or twelve armed men as escort.

A mixture of cowardice and brutality, the traders' party became exceedingly timid, as a report
was current that the inhabitants of Kayala intended to ally themselves to those of Tarrangolle,
and to attack the Turks in their camp. I accordingly strengthened my position by building a
tower of palisades, that entirely commanded all approaches to my zareeba.

Latooka was already spoiled by the Turks: it was now difficult to procure flour and milk for
beads, as the traders' people, since the attack on Kayala, had commenced the system of purchasing
all supplies with either goats or beef, which having been stolen, was their cheapest medium
of exchange. Although rich in beads and copper, I was actually poor, as I could not obtain
supplies. Accordingly I allowanced my men two pounds of beads monthly, and they went to distant
villages and purchased their own provisions independently of me.

On the 11th June, at 7.20 A.M., there was a curious phenomenon; the sky was perfectly clear,
but we were startled by a noise like the sudden explosion of a mine, or the roar of heavy cannon,
almost immediately repeated. It appeared to have originated among the mountains, about sixteen
miles distant due south of my camp. I could only account for this occurrence by the supposition
that an immense mass of the granite rock might have detached itself from a high mountain, and,
in falling to the valley, it might have bounded from a projection on the mountain's side, and
thus have caused a double report.

June 13.---I shot ten ducks and geese before breakfast, including one of the large black and
white geese with the crimson head and neck. On my return to camp I weighed this--exactly eleven
pounds; this goose has on either pinion-joint a sharp, horny spur, an inch in length. During
my morning stroll I met hundreds of natives running excitedly with shields and spears towards
Adda's village: they were going to steal the cattle from a village about four miles distant;
thus there will be a fight in the course of the day. The Latooka stream is now full, and has
the appearance of a permanent river carrying a considerable body of water to the Sobat.

I met with two thieves while duck-shooting this morning--the one an eagle, and the other a
native. The beautiful white-throated fish-eagle may generally be seen perched upon a bough
overhanging the stream, ready for any prey that may offer. This morning I shot two ducks right
and left as they flew down the course of the river---one fell dead in the water, but the other,
badly hit, fluttered along the surface for some distance, and was immediately chased and seized
by a fish-eagle which, quite reckless of the gun, had been watching the sport from a high tree,
and evinced a desire to share the results. My men, not to be done out of their breakfast, gave
chase, shouting and yelling to frighten the eagle, and one of them having a gun loaded with
buckshot, fired, and the whirr-r of the charge induced the eagle to drop the duck, which was
triumphantly seized by the man.

The other thief was a native. I fired a long shot at a drake; the bird flew a considerable
distance and towered, falling about a quarter of a mile distant. A Latooka was hoeing close
to where it fell, and we distinctly saw him pick up the bird and run to a bush, in which he
hid it: upon our arrival he continued his work as though nothing had happened, and denied all
knowledge of it: he was accordingly led by the ear to the bush, where we found the duck carefully
secreted.

June 14.---The natives lost one man killed in the fight yesterday, therefore the night was
passed in singing and dancing.

The country is drying up; although the stream is full there is no rain in Latooka, the water
in the river being the eastern drainage of the Obbo mountains, where it rains daily.

Ibrahimawa, the Bornu man, alias "Sinbad the Sailor," the great traveller, amuses and bores
me daily with his long and wonderful stories of his travels. The style of his narratives may
be conjectured from the following extracts: "There was a country adjoining Bornu, where the
king was so fat and heavy that he could not walk, until the doctors OPENED HIS BELLY AND CUT
THE FAT OUT, which operation was repeated annually."

He described another country as a perfect Paradise, where no one ever drank anything so inferior
as water. This country was so wealthy that the poorest man could drink merissa (beer). He illustrated
the general intoxication by saying, that "after 3 P.M. no one was sober, throughout the country,
and from that hour the cows, goats, and fowls WERE ALL DRUNK, as they drank the merissa left
in the jars by their owners, who were all asleep."

He knew all about England, having been a servant, on a Turkish frigate that was sent to Gravesend.
He described an evening entertainment most vividly. He had been to a ball at an "English Pasha's
in Blackwall," and had succeeded wonderfully with some charming English ladies excessively
"decollete," upon whom he felt sure he had left a lasting impression, as several had fallen
in love with him on the spot, supposing him to be a Pasha.

Such were instances of life and recollections of Ibrahimawa, the Bornu.

On June 16, Koorshid's people returned from Obbo. Ibrahim and a few men had remained there,
and distrusting the warlike spirit of the Latookas, he now recalled the entire establishment
from Tarrangolle, intending to make a station at the more peaceful country of Obbo. An extract
from my journal on that day explains my feelings: "This is most annoying; I had arranged my
camp and garden, &c. for the wet season, and I must now leave everything, as it is impossible
to remain in this country with my small force alone; the natives have become so bad (since
the cattle razzia) that a considerable armed party is obliged to go to the stream for water.
It is remarkably pleasant travelling in the vicinity of the traders;--they convert every country
into a wasp's nest;--they have neither plan of action nor determination, and I, being unfortunately
dependent upon their movements, am more like a donkey than an explorer, that is saddled and
ridden away at a moment's notice. About sixty natives of Obbo accompanied the men sent by Ibrahim
to carry the effects;--I require at least fifty, as so many of my transport animals are dead."
Nothing can exceed the laziness and dogged indolence of my men; I have only four who are worth
having,---Richarn, Hamed, Sali, and Taher.

All the men in either camp were discontented at the order to move, as they had made themselves
comfortable, expecting to remain in Latooka during the wet season. The two chiefs, Moy and
Commoro, found themselves in a dilemma, as they had allied themselves with the Turks in the
attack upon the neighbouring town, depending upon them for future support; they were now left
in the lurch, and felt themselves hardly a match for their enemies. A few extracts from my
journal will close our sojourn at Latooka:

"June 18th.--The white ants are a curse upon the country; although the hut is swept daily and
their galleries destroyed, they rebuild everything during the night, scaling the supports to
the roof and entering the thatch. Articles of leather or wood are the first devoured. The rapidity
with which they repair their galleries is wonderful; all their work is carried on with cement;
the earth is contained in their stomachs, and this being mixed with some glutinous matter they
deposit it as bees do their wax. Although the earth of this country if tempered for house-building
will crumble in the rain, the hills of the white ants remain solid and waterproof, owing to
the glue in the cement. I have seen three varieties of white ants--the largest about the size
of a small wasp: this does not attack dwellings, but subsists upon fallen trees. The second
variety is not so large; this species seldom enters buildings. The third is the greatest pest:
this is the smallest, but thick and juicy;--the earth is literally alive with them, nor is
there one square foot of ground free from them in Latooka.

"June 19th.--Had a bad attack of fever yesterday that has been hanging about me for some days.
Weighed all the luggage and packed the stores in loads of fifty pounds each for the natives
to carry.

"June 20th.--Busy making new ropes from the bark of a mimosa; all hands at work, as we start
the day after to-morrow. My loss in animals makes a difference of twenty-three porters' loads.
I shall take forty natives as the bad roads will necessitate light loads for the donkeys. I
have now only fourteen donkeys; these are in good condition, and would thrive, were not the
birds so destructive by pecking sores upon their backs. These sores would heal quickly by the
application of gunpowder, but the birds irritate and enlarge them until the animal, is rendered
useless. I have lost two donkeys simply from the attacks of these birds;--the only remaining
camel and some of the donkeys I have covered with jackets made of tent-cloth.

"June 21st.--Nil.

"June 22d.--We were awoke last night by a report from the sentry that natives were prowling
around the camp;--I accordingly posted three additional guards. At a little after 2 A.m. a
shot was fired, followed by two others in quick succession, and a sound as of many feet running
quickly was heard passing the entrance of the camp. I was up in a moment, and my men were quickly
under arms: the Turks' drum beat, and their camp (that was contiguous to mine) was alive with
men, but all was darkness. I lighted my policeman's lantern, that was always kept ready trimmed,
and I soon arrived at the spot where the shot had been fired. The natives had been endeavouring
to steal the cattle from the Turks' kraal, and favoured by the darkness they had commenced
burrowing with the intention of removing the thorn bushes that formed the fence. Unfortunately
for the thieves, they were unaware that there were watchers in the kraal among the cattle:
it was a pitch dark night, and nothing could be distinguished; but the attention of one of
the sentries was attracted by the snorting and stamping of the goats, that evidently denoted
the presence of something uncommon. He then perceived close to him, on the other side the hedge,
a dark object crouching, and others standing, and he heard the bushes moving as though some
one was at work to remove them. He immediately fired; and the sound of a rush of men in retreat
induced both him and the other sentry to repeat the shot. By the light of the lantern we now
searched the place, and discovered the body of a native lying close to the fence just above
a considerable hole that he had scraped beneath the thorns, in order to extract the stems that
were buried in the ground, and thus by drawing away the bushes he would have effected an entrance.
He had commenced operations exactly opposite the sentry, and the musket being loaded with mould-shot,
he had received the contents at close quarters. Although he had tempted fate and met with deserved
misfortune, it was most disgusting to witness the brutality of the Turks, who, tying ropes
to the ankles, dragged the body to the entrance of the camp, and wished for amusement to drive
their bayonets through the chest.

"Although dying, the man was not dead: a shot had entered one eye, knocking it out; several
had entered the face, chest, and thighs, as he was in a stooping position when the gun was
fired. I would not allow him to be mutilated, and after groaning in agony for some time, he
died. The traders' people immediately amputated the hands at the wrists, to detach the copper
bracelets, while others cut off his helmet of beads, and the body was very considerately dragged
close to the entrance of my camp.

"June 22nd.--Finding that the disgusting Turks had deposited the dead body almost at my door,
I had it removed a couple of hundred yards to leeward. The various birds of prey immediately
collected--buzzards, vultures, crows, and the great Marabou stork. I observed a great bare-necked
vulture almost succeed in turning the body over by pulling at the flesh of the arm at the opposite
side to that where it stood. I have noticed that birds of prey invariably commence their attack
upon the eyes, inner portions of the thighs, and beneath the arms, before they devour the coarser
portions. In a few hours a well-picked skeleton was all that was left of the Latooka."

We were to start on the following day.

Our joint parties consisted of about three hundred men. On arrival at the base of the mountains,
instead of crossing them as before, we skirted the chain to the northwest, and then rounding
through a natural gap, we ascended gradually towards the south.

On the fifth day we were, at 5 A.M., within twelve miles of Obbo, and we bivouacked on a huge
mass of granite on the side of a hill, forming an inclining plateau of about an acre. The natives
who accompanied us were immediately ordered to clear the grass from the insterstices of the
rocks, and hardly had they commenced when a slight disturbance, among some loose stones that
were being removed, showed that something was wrong. In an instant lances and stones were hurled
at some object by the crowd, and upon my arrival I saw the most horrid monster that I have
ever experienced. I immediately pinned his head to the ground and severed it at one blow with
my hunting-knife, damaging the keen edge of my favourite weapon upon the hard rock. It was
a puff adder of the most extraordinary dimensions. I then fetched my measuring-tape from the
game-bag, in which it was always at hand. Although the snake was only 5 ft. 4 in. in length
it was slightly above 15 inches in girth. The tail was, as usual in poisonous snakes, extremely
blunt, and the head perfectly fiat, and about 2 1/2 inches broad, but unfortunately during
my short absence to fetch the measure the natives had crushed it with a rock. They had thus
destroyed it as a specimen, and had broken three of the teeth, but I counted eight, and secured
five poison-fangs, the two most prominent being nearly an inch in length. The poison-fangs
of snakes are artfully contrived by some diabolical freak of nature as pointed tubes, through
which the poison is injected into the base of the wound inflicted. The extreme point of the
fang is solid, and is so finely sharpened that beneath a powerful microscope it is perfectly
smooth, although the point of the finest needle is rough. A short distance above the solid
point of the fang the surface of the tube appears as though cut away, like the first cut of
a quill in forming a pen: through this aperture the poison is injected.

Hardly had I secured the fangs, when a tremendous clap of thunder shook the earth and echoed
from rock to rock among the high mountains, that rose abruptly on our left within a mile. Again
the lightning flashed, and almost simultaneously, a deafening peal roared from the black cloud
above us, just as I was kneeling over the archenemy to skin him. He looked so Satanic with
his flat head, and minute cold grey eye, and scaly hide, with the lightning flashing and the
thunder roaring around him; I felt like St. Dunstan with the devil, and skinned him. The natives
and also my men were horrified, as they would not touch any portion of such a snake with their
hands: even its skin was supposed by these people to be noxious. Down came the rain; I believe
it could not have rained harder. Mrs. Baker in the palanquin was fortunately like a snail in
her shell; but I had nothing for protection except an oxhide: throwing myself upon my angarep
I drew it over me. The natives had already lighted prodigious fires, and all crowded around
the blaze; but what would have been the Great Fire of London in that storm?

In half an hour the fire was out; such a deluge fell that the ravine that was dry when we first
bivouacked, was now an impassable torrent. My oxhide had become tripe, and my angarep, being
covered with a mat, was some inches deep in water. Throwing away the mat, the pond escaped
through the sieve-like network, but left me drenched. Throughout the night it poured. We had
been wet through every day during the journey from Latooka, but the nights had been fine; this
was superlative misery to all. At length it ceased--morning dawned; we could not procure fire,
as everything was saturated, and we started on our march through forest and high reeking grass.
By this circuitous route from Latooka we avoided all difficult passes, as the ground on the
west side of the chain of mountains ascended rapidly but regularly to Obbo. On arrival at my
former hut I found a great change; the grass was at least ten feet high, and my little camp
was concealed in the rank vegetation. Old Katchiba came to meet us, but brought nothing, as
he said the Turks had eaten up the country. An extract from my journal, dated July 1, explains
the misery of our position.

"This Obbo country is now a land of starvation. The natives refuse to supply provision for
beads; nor will they barter anything unless in exchange for flesh. This is the curse that the
Turks have brought upon the country by stealing cattle and throwing them away wholesale. We
have literally nothing to eat except tullaboon, a small bitter grain used in lieu of corn by
the natives: there is no game; if it existed, shooting would be impossible, as the grass is
impenetrable. I hear that the Turks intend to make a razzia on the Shoggo country near Farajoke;
thus they will stir up a wasp's nest for me wherever I go, and render it impossible for my
small party to proceed alone, or even to remain in peace. I shall be truly thankful to quit
this abominable land; in my experience I never saw such scoundrels as Africa produces--the
natives of the Soudan being worse than all. It is impossible to make a servant of any of these
people; the apathy, indolence, dishonesty combined with dirtiness, are beyond description;
and their abhorrence of anything like order increases their natural dislike to Europeans. I
have not one man even approaching to a servant; the animals are neglected, therefore they die.
And were I to die they would rejoice, as they would immediately join Koorshid's people in cattle
stealing and slave hunting;--charming followers in the time of danger! Such men destroy all
pleasure, and render exploration a mere toil. No one can imagine the hardships and annoyances
to which we are subject, with the additional disgust of being somewhat dependent upon the traders'
band of robbers. For this miserable situation my vakeel is entirely responsible; had my original
escort been faithful, I should have been entirely independent, and could with my transport
animals have penetrated far south before the commencement of the rainy season. Altogether I
am thoroughly sick of this expedition, but I shall plod onwards with dogged obstinacy; God
only knows the end. I shall be grateful should the day ever arrive once more to see Old England."

Both my wife and I were excessively ill with bilious fever, and neither could assist the other.

On 18th July, the natives held a great consultation, and ended with a war-dance; they were
all painted in various patterns, with red ochre and white pipe-clay; their heads adorned with
very tasteful ornaments of cowrie-shells, surmounted by plumes of ostrich-feathers, which drooped
over the back of the neck. After the dance, the old chief addressed them in a long and vehement
speech; he was followed by several other speakers, all of whom were remarkably fluent, and
the resolution of the meeting was declared "that the nogaras were to be beaten, and men collected
to accompany the Turks on a razzia in the Madi country."

Ibrahim started with 120 armed men and a mass of Obbo people on the marauding expedition.

On the following day Katchiba came to see us, bringing a present of flour. I gave him a tin
plate, a wooden spoon, the last of the tea-cups, and a tinsel paper of mother-of-pearl shirt
buttons, which took his fancy so immensely, that my wife was begged to suspend it from his
neck like a medal. He was really a very good old fellow--by far the best I have seen in Africa.
He was very suspicious of the Turks, who, he said, would ultimately ruin him, as, by attacking
the Madi tribe, they would become his enemies, and invade Obbo when the Turks should leave.
Cattle were of very little use in his country, as the flies would kill them; he had tried all
his magic art, but it was of no avail against the flies; my donkeys would all assuredly die.
He said that the losses inflicted upon the various tribes by the Turks were ruinous, as their
chief means of subsistence was destroyed; without cattle they could procure no wives; milk,
their principle diet, was denied them, and they were driven to despair; thus they would fight
for their cattle, although they would allow their families to be carried off without resistance;
cattle would procure another family, but if the animals were stolen, there would be no remedy.

Flies by day, rats and innumerable bugs by night, heavy dew, daily rain, and impenetrable reeking
grass rendered Obbo a prison about as disagreeable as could exist.

The many months of tiresome inaction that I was forced to remain in this position, I will not
venture to inflict upon the reader, but I will content myself with extracts from my journal
from time to time, that will exhibit the general character of the situation.

"Aug. 2d.--Several of my men have fever; the boy, Saat, upon receiving a dose of calomel, asked,
`whether he was to swallow the paper in which it was wrapped?' This is not the first time that
I have been asked the same question by my men. Saat feels the ennui of Obbo, and finds it difficult
to amuse himself; he has accordingly become so far scientific, that he has investigated the
machinery of two of my watches, both of which he has destroyed. I am now reduced to one watch,
the solitary survivor of four that formed my original family of timekeepers. Having commenced
as a drummer, Saat feels the loss of his drum that was smashed by the camel; he accordingly
keeps his hand in by practising upon anything that he can adapt to that purpose, the sacred
kettle inverted, and a tin cup, having been drummed until the one became leaky, and the bottom
of the other disappeared.

"Saat and the black woman are, unfortunately, enemies, and the monotony of the establishment
is sometimes broken by a stand-up fight between him and his vicious antagonist, Gaddum Her.
The latter has received a practical proof that the boy is growing strong, as I found him the
other day improving her style of beauty by sitting astride upon her stomach, and punching her
eyes with his fists, as she lay upon the ground furrowing Saat's fat cheeks with her very dirty
nails. It is only fair to the boy to say that Gaddum Her is always the aggressor.

"It is absurd to see the self-importance of the miserable cut-throats belonging to Koorshid's
party, who, far too great to act as common soldiers, swagger about with little slave-boys in
attendance, who carry their muskets. I often compare the hard lot of our honest poor in England
with that of these scoundrels, whose courage consists in plundering and murdering defenceless
natives, while the robbers fatten on the spoil. I am most anxious to see whether the English
Government will take active notice of the White Nile trade, or whether diplomacy will confine
them to simple protest and correspondence, to be silenced by a promise from the Egyptian Government
to put a stop to the present atrocities. The Egyptian Government will of course promise, and,
as usual with Turks, will never perform. On the other hand, the savages are themselves bad;
one tribe welcomes the Turks as allies against their neighbours, and sees no crime in murder,
provided the result be 'cattle.' This, of course, produces general confusion."

"AUG. 6TH.--The difficulties of procuring provisions are most serious: the only method of purchasing
flour is as follows. The natives will not sell it for anything but flesh; to purchase an ox,
I require molotes (hoes): to obtain molotes I must sell my clothes and shoes to the traders'
men. The ox is then driven to a distant village, and is there slaughtered, and the flesh being
divided into about a hundred small portions, my men sit upon the ground with three large baskets,
into which are emptied minute baskets of flour as the natives produce them, one in exchange
for each parcel of meat. This tedious process is a specimen of Central African difficulties
in the simple act of purchasing flour. The Obbo natives are similar to the Bari in some of
their habits. I have had great difficulty in breaking my cowkeeper of his disgusting custom
of washing the milk bowl with cow's urine, and even mixing some with the milk; he declares
that unless he washes his hands with such water before milking, the cow will lose her milk.
This filthy custom is unaccountable. The Obbo natives wash out their mouths with their own
urine. This habit may have originated in the total absence of salt in their country. The Latookas,
on the contrary, are very clean, and milk could be purchased in their own vessels without fear."

"Aug. 8th--Having killed a fat ox, the men are busily engaged in boiling down the fat. Care
should be taken to sprinkle a few drops of water in the pot when the fat is supposed to be
sufficiently boiled; should it hiss, as though poured upon melted lead, it is ready; but if
it be silent, the fat is not sufficiently boiled, and it will not keep.

"Three runaway female slaves were captured by Koorshid's people this morning, two of whom were
brutally treated. On the whole the female slaves are well kept when very young, but well thrashed
when the black bloom of youth has passed."

"Aug. 11th.--At this season immense beetles are at work in vast numbers, walking off with every
species of dung, by forming it into balls as large as small apples, and rolling them away with
their hind legs, while they walk backwards by means of the forelegs. Should a ball of dung
roll into a deep rut, I have frequently seen another beetle come to the assistance of the proprietor
of the ball, and quarrel for its possession after their joint labours have raised it to the level.

"This species was the holy scarabaeus of the ancient Egyptians; it appears shortly after the
commencement of the wet season, its labours continuing until the cessation of the rains, at
which time it disappears. Was it not worshipped by the ancients as the harbinger of the high
Nile? The existence of Lower Egypt depending upon the annual inundation, the rise of the river
was observed with general anxiety. The beetle appears at the commencement of the rise in the
river level, and from its great size and extraordinary activity in clearing the earth from
all kinds of ordure, its presence is remarkable. Appearing at the season of the flood, may
not the ancients have imagined some connexion between the beetle and the river, and have considered
it sacred as the HARBINGER of the inundation?

"There is a wild bean in this country, the blossom of which has a delicious perfume of violets.
I regret that I have not a supply of paper for botanical specimens, as many beautiful flowers
appeared at the commencement of the rains. Few thorns and no gums form a strong contrast to
the Soudan, where nearly every tree and shrub is armed."

"AUG. 13TH.--I had a long examination of a slave woman, Bacheeta, belonging to one of Koorshid's
men. She had been sent two years ago by the king, Kamrasi, from Unyoro, as a spy among the
traders, with orders to attract them to the country if appearances were favourable, but to
return with a report should they be dangerous people.

"On her arrival at Faloro, Debono's people captured her, and she was eventually sold to her
present owner. She speaks Arabic, having learnt it from the traders' people. She declares that
Magungo, the place of which I have heard so much, is only four days' hard marching for a native,
direct from Faloro, but eight days' for the Turks; and that it is equi-distant from Faloro
and from Kamrasi's capital in Unyoro. She had heard of the Luta N'zige, as reported to Speke,
but she knew it only by the name of 'Kara-wootan-N'zige.'

"She corroborated the accounts I had formerly received, of large boats arriving with Arabs
at Magungo, and she described the lake as a 'white sheet as far as the eye could reach.' She
particularized it as a peculiar water, that was unlike other waters, as it would 'come up to
a water-jar, if put upon the shore, and carry it away and break it.' By this description I
understood 'waves.' She also described the 'Gondokoro river,' or White Nile, as flowing into
and out of the lake, and she spoke of a 'great roar of water that fell from the sky.'

"I trust I may succeed in reaching this lake: if not, my entire time, labour, and expenditure
will have been wasted, as I throw sport entirely aside for the sake of this exploration. Were
I to think of shooting in preference to exploring, I could have excellent sport on the Atabbi
river during the dry season, as also on the Kanieti, in the vicinity of Wakkala; but I must
neglect all but the great object, and push on to Kamrasi's capital, and from thence to the
lake. My great anxiety lies in the conduct of Koorshid's party; should they make razzias south,
I shall be ruined, as my men will be afraid to advance through a disturbed country. I MUST
keep on good terms with the chief of the party, as I depend upon him for an interpreter and
porters.

"My plan is to prevail on Ibrahim to commence an ivory trade in Kamrasi's country that might
be legitimately conducted, instead of the present atrocious system of robbery and murder. I
like Koorshid, as he is a bold-spoken robber instead of acting the hypocrite like the other
traders of Khartoum; thus, as he was the only man that was civil to me, I would do him a good
turn could I establish an honest trade between Kamrasi and himself; at the same time, I should
have the advantage of his party as escort to the desired country. The case commercially lies
as follows:--

"Kamrasi's country, Unyoro, is a virgin land, where beads are hardly known, and where the king
is the despotic ruler, whose word is law. All trade would be conducted through him alone, in
the shape of presents, he giving elephants' tusks, while, in return, Koorshid would send him
beads and various articles annually. Koorshid would thus be the sole trader with Kamrasi according
to White Nile rules, and the abominable system of cattle robbery would be avoided.

"The great difficulty attending trade in a distant country is the want of means of transport,
one tribe, being generally hostile to the adjoining, fears to afford porters beyond the frontier.
If I can prove that the Lake Luta N'zige is one source of the Nile with a navigable junction,
I can at once do away with the great difficulty, and open up a direct trade for Koorshid. The
Lake is in Kamrasi's own dominions: thus he will have no fear in supplying porters to deliver
the ivory at a depot that might be established, either on the lake or at its junction with
the Nile. A vessel should be built upon the lake, to trade with the surrounding coasts, and
to receive the ivory from the depot. This vessel would then descend from the lake to the While
Nile, to the head of the cataracts, where a camp should be formed, from which, in a few days'
march, the ivory would reach Gondokoro.

"A large trade might thus be established, as not only Unyoro would supply ivory, but the lake
would open the navigation to the very heart of Africa. The advantage of dealing with Kamrasi
direct would be great, as he is not a mere savage, demanding beads and bracelets; but he would
receive printed cottons, and goods of various kinds, by which means the ivory would be obtained
at a merely nominal rate. The depot on the Luta N'zige should be a general store, at which
the vessel ascending from the station above the cataracts would deliver the various goods from
Gondokoro, and from this store the goods would be disseminated throughout the countries bordering
the lake by means of vessels.

"The only drawback to this honest trade would be the general hatred of anything honest by the
Khartoumers; the charms of cattle razzias and slave-hunting, with the attendant murders, attract
these villanous cut-throats to the White Nile expeditions, and I fear it would be difficult
to raise the number of armed men required for safety, were legitimate trade the sole object
of the ivory hunter.

"Even in Obbo, I believe that printed calicoes, red woollen shirts, blankets, &c. would purchase
ivory. The elevation of this country being upwards of 3,600 feet, the nights are cold, and
even the day is cold during the wet season; thus clothing is required; this we see in the first
rudiments of covering, the skins of beasts used by the natives; the Obbo people being the first
tribe that adopts a particle of clothing from the Shillook country (lat. 10 degrees) throughout
the entire course of the White Nile to this latitude (4 degrees 02 minutes). Kamrasi's tribe
are well covered, and farther south, towards Zanzibar, all tribes are clothed more or less;
thus Obbo is the clothing frontier, where the climate has first prompted the savage to cover
himself, while in the hot lowlands he remains in a state of nakedness. Where clothing is required,
English manufacturers would find a market in exchange for ivory; thus from this point a fair
trade might be commenced.

"From Farajoke, in the Sooli country, lat. 3 degrees 33 minutes, up to this date the most southern
limit of my explorations, the lake is about nine or ten days' march in a direct course; but
such a route is impossible, owing to Debono's establishment occupying the intervening country,
and the rules of the traders forbid a trespass upon their assumed territory. Koorshid's men
would refuse to advance by that route; my men, if alone, will be afraid to travel, and will
find some excuse for not proceeding; from the very outset they have been an absolute burthen
upon me, receiving a monthly allowance of two pounds of beads per head for doing literally
nothing, after having ruined the independence of my expedition by their mutiny at Gondokoro."

"AUG. 23d.--My last camel died to-day; thus all my horses and camels are dead, and only eight
donkeys remain out of twenty-one; most of these will die, if not all. There can be no doubt
that the excessive wet in all the food, owing to the constant rain and dew, is the principal
cause of disease. The camels, horses, and donkeys of the Soudan, all thrive in the hot dry
air of that country, and are unsuited for this damp climate.

"Had I been without transport animals, my expedition could not have left Gondokoro, as there
was no possibility of procuring porters. I had always expected that my animals would die, but
I had hoped they would have carried me to the equator: this they would have accomplished during
the two months of comparative dry weather following my arrival at Gondokoro, had not the mutiny
thwarted all my plans, and thrown me into the wet season. My animals have delivered me at Obbo,
and have died in inaction, instead of wearing out upon the road. Had I been able to start direct
from Gondokoro, as I had intended, my animals would have delivered me in Kamrasi's country
before the arrival of the heavy rains.

"There is an excellent species of gourd in Obbo; it is pear-shaped, about ten inches long,
and seven in diameter, with a white skin, and warts upon the surface; this is the most delicate
and the best-flavoured that I have ever eaten.

"There are two varieties of castor-oil plant in this country--one with a purple stem and bright
red veins in the leaves, that is remarkably handsome. Also a wild plantain, with a crimson
stem to the leaf; this does not grow to the height of the common plantain, but is simply a
plume of leaves springing from the ground without a parent stem."

"Aug. 30th.--Mrs. Baker and I made a morning call for the first time upon old Katchiba by his
express desire. His courtyard was cemented and clean, about a hundred feet in diameter, surrounded
by palisades, which were overgrown with gourds and the climbing yam, Collolollo. There were
several large huts in the inclosure, belonging to his wives; he received us very politely,
and begged us to enter his principal residence; it was simply arranged, being the usual circular
hut, but about twenty-five feet in diameter.

"Creeping on all fours through the narrow doorway, we found ourselves in the presence of one
of his wives, who was preparing merissa. The furniture of the apartment was practical, and
quite in accordance with the taste of the old chief, as the whole establishment appeared to
be devoted to brewing merissa. There were several immense jars capable of holding about thirty
gallons: some of these were devoted to beer, while one was reserved to contain little presents
that he had received from ourselves and the Turks, including a much-esteemed red flannel shirt:
these recherche objects were packed in the jar, and covered by a smaller vessel inverted on
the mouth to protect them from rats and white ants. Two or three well-prepared ox-hides were
spread upon the ground; and he requested Mrs. Baker to sit on his right hand, while I sat upon
the left. Thus satisfactorily arranged, he called for some merissa, which his wife immediately
brought in an immense gourd-shell, and both my wife and I having drunk, he took a long draught,
and finished the gourd.

"The delightful old sorcerer, determined to entertain us, called for his rababa: a species
of harp was handed to him; this was formed of a hollow base and an upright piece of wood, from
which descended eight strings. Some time was expended in carefully tuning his instrument, which,
being completed, he asked, 'if he should sing?' Fully prepared for something comic, we begged
him to begin. He sang a most plaintive and remarkably wild, but pleasing air, accompanying
himself perfectly on his harp, producing the best music that I had ever heard among savages.
In fact, music and dancing were old Katchiba's delight, especially if combined with deep potations.

"His song over, he rose from his seat and departed, but presently reappeared leading a sheep
by a string, which he begged us to accept. I thanked him for his attention, but I assured him
that we had not paid him a visit with the expectation of receiving a present, and that we could
not think of accepting it, as we had simply called upon him as friends; he accordingly handed
the sheep to his wife, and shortly after we rose to depart. Having effected an exit by creeping
through the doorway, he led us both by the hand in a most friendly way for about a hundred
yards on our path, and took leave most gracefully, expressing a hope that we should frequently
come to see him.

"On our return home we found the sheep waiting for us; determined not to be refused, he had
sent it on before us. I accordingly returned him a most gorgeous necklace of the most valuable
beads, and gave the native who had brought the sheep a present for himself and wife; thus all
parties were satisfied, and the sheep was immediately killed for dinner.

"The following morning Katchiba appeared at my door with a large red flag made of a piece of
cotton cloth that the Turks had given him; he was accompanied by two men beating large drums,
and a third playing a kind of clarionet: this playing at soldiers was an imitation of the Turks.
He was in great spirits, being perfectly delighted with the necklace I had sent him."

"Oct. 6th.--I have examined my only remaining donkey: he is a picture of misery--eyes and nose
running, coat staring, and he is about to start to join his departed comrades; he has packed
up for his last journey. With his loose skin hanging to his withered frame he looked like the
British lion on the shield over the door of the Khartoum consulate. In that artistic effort
the lion was equally lean and ragged, having perhaps been thus represented by the artist as
a pictorial allusion to the smallness of the Consul's pay; the illustration over the shabby
gateway utters, 'Behold my leanness! 150l. per annum!'

"I feel a touch of the poetic stealing over me when I look at my departing donkey. 'I never
loved a dear gazelle,' &c.: but the practical question, 'Who is to carry the portmanteau?'
remains unanswered. I do not believe the Turks have any intention of going to Kamrasi's country;
they are afraid, as they have heard that he is a powerful king, and they fear the restrictions
that power will place upon their felonious propensities. In that case I shall go on without
them; but they have deceived me, by borrowing 165 lbs. of beads which they cannot repay; this
puts me to much inconvenience. The Asua river is still impassable, according to native reports;
this will, prevent a general advance south. Should the rains cease, the river will fall rapidly,
and I shall make a forward move and escape this prison of high grass and inaction."

"Oct. 11th.--Lions roaring every night, but not visible. I set my men to work to construct
a fortified camp, a simple oblong of palisades with two flanking projections at opposite angles
to command all approaches; the lazy scoundrels are sulky in consequence. Their daily occupation
is drinking merissa, sleeping, and strumming on the rababa, while that of the black women is
quarrelling--one ebony sister insulting the other by telling her that she is as 'black as the
kettle,' and recommending her, 'to eat poison.'"

"Oct. 17th.--I expect an attack of fever tomorrow or next day, as I understand from constant
and painful experiences every step of this insidious disease. For some days one feels a certain
uneasiness of spirits difficult to explain; no peculiar symptom is observed until a day or
two before the attack, when great lassitude is felt, with a desire to sleep. Rheumatic pains
in the loins, back, and joints of the limbs are accompanied by a sense of great weakness. A
cold fit comes on very quickly; this is so severe that it almost immediately affects the stomach,
producing painful vomiting with severe retching. The eyes are heavy and painful, the head hot
and aching, the extremities pale and cold, pulse very weak, and about fifty-six beats per minute;
the action of the heart distressingly weak, with total prostration of strength. This shivering
and vomiting continues for about two hours, attended with great difficulty of breathing. The
hot stage then comes on, the retching still continuing, with the difficulty of breathing, intense
weakness and restlessness for about an hour and a half, which, should the remedies be successful,
terminate in profuse perspiration and sleep. The attack ends, leaving the stomach in a dreadful
state of weakness. The fever is remittent, the attack returning almost at the same hour every
two days, and reducing the patient rapidly to a mere skeleton; the stomach refuses to act,
and death ensues. Any severe action of the mind, such as grief or anger, is almost certain
to be succeeded by fever in this country. My stock of quinine is reduced to a few grains, and
my work lies before me; my cattle are all dead. We are both weakened by repeated fever, and
travelling must be on foot."

CHAPTER X

LIFE AT OBBO.

I had promised Ibrahim that I would use my influence with the King of Unyoro to procure him
the ivory of that country;--I had a good supply of beads, while Ibrahim had none; thus he was
dependent upon me for opening the road. Everything looked fair, and had I been strong and well
I should have enjoyed the future prospect; but I was weak and almost useless, and weighed down
with anxiety lest I might die and my wife would be left alone.

The rains had ceased, and the wild grapes were ripe the natives brought them in great quantities
in exchange for a few beads. They were in extremely large bunches, invariably black, and of
a good size, but not juicy--the flavour was good, and they were most refreshing, and certainly
benefited my health. I pressed about two hundred pounds of grapes in the large sponging bath,
but procured so little juice, and that so thick, that winemaking proved a failure; it fermented,
and we drank it, but it was not wine. Are you a rainmaker?"

"What do you think of the weather today?" "Whistle again," he said; and once more I performed
like the whistle of a locomotive. Entre nous, my whistle was considered infallible.

The natives were busy sowing the new crop just as the last crop was ripening. It did not appear
likely that they would reap much for their labour, as the elephants, having an accurate knowledge
of the season, visited their fields nightly, and devoured and trampled the greater portion.
I had been too ill to think of shooting, as there was no other method than to watch in the
tullaboon fields at night; the high grass in which the elephants harboured being impenetrable.
Feeling a little better I took my men to the field about a mile from the village, and dug a
hole, in which I intended to watch.

That night I took Richarn, and we sat together in our narrow grave. There was no sound throughout
the night. I was well wrapped up in a Scotch plaid, but an attack of ague came on, and I shivered
as though in Lapland. I had several rifles in the grave; among others the "Baby," that carried
a half-pound explosive shell. At about 4 A.M. I heard the distant trumpet of an elephant, and
I immediately ordered Richarn to watch, and to report to me their arrival. It was extremely
dark, but Richarn presently sank slowly down, and whispered, "Here they are!"

Taking the "Baby," I quietly rose, and listening attentively, I could distinctly hear the elephants
tearing off the heads of the tullaboon, and crunching the crisp grain. I could distinguish
the dark forms of the herd about thirty paces from me, but much too indistinct for a shot.
I stood with my elbows resting on the edge of the hole, and the heavy rifle balanced, waiting
for an opportunity. I had a papersight arranged for night shooting, and I several times tried
to get the line of an elephant's shoulder, but to no purpose; I could distinguish the sight
clearly, but not the elephant. As I was watching the herd I suddenly heard a trumpet close
to my left, and I perceived an elephant quickly walking exactly towards my grave. I waited
with the rifle at my shoulder until he was within about twelve paces; I then whistled, and
he stopped, and turned quickly, exposing his side. Taking the line of the foreleg, I fired
at the shoulder. The tremendous flash and smoke of ten drachms of powder completely blinded
me, and the sudden reaction of darkness increased the obscurity. I could distinguish nothing;
but I heard a heavy fall, and a few moments after I could hear a rustling in the grass as the
herd of elephants retreated into the grass jungles. Richarn declared that the elephant had
fallen; but I again heard a rustling in the high grass jungle within eighty yards of me, and
this sound continued in the same place. I accordingly concluded that the elephant was very
badly wounded, and that he could not move from the spot. Nothing could be seen.

At length the birds began to chirp, and the "blacksmith" (as I named one of the first to wake,
whose two sharp ringing notes exactly resemble the blows of a hammer upon an anvil) told me
that it was nearly daybreak. The grey of morning had just appeared when I heard voices, and
I saw Mrs. Baker coming along the field with a party of men, whom she had brought down from
the village with knives and axes. She had heard the roar of the heavy rifle, and knowing the
"Baby's" scream, and the usual fatal effects, she had considered the elephant as bagged. The
natives had also heard the report, and people began to accumulate from all quarters for the
sake of the flesh. The elephant was not dead, but was standing about ten yards within the grass
jungle; however, in a short time a heavy fall sounded his knell, and the crowd rushed in. He
was a fine bull, and before I allowed him to be cut up, I sent for the measuring tape; the
result being as follows:

 From tip of trunk to fleshy end of tail . . .            26 feet 0.5 inches
 Height from shoulder to forefoot in a perpendicular line 10 ft 6.5 in
 Girth of forefoot .. . . . . . . . . .                    4 ft 10.25 in
 Length of one tusk in the curve . . . . . . .             6 ft 6 in
 Ditto of fellow tusk (el Hadam, the servant) . . . .      5 ft 11 in
 Weight of tusks, 80 lbs. and 69 lbs. = 149 lbs.

The ridiculous accounts that I have read, stating that the height of elephants attains FIFTEEN
feet, is simply laughable ignorance. A difference of a foot in an elephant's height is enormous;
he appears a giant among his lesser comrades. Observe the difference between a horse sixteen
hands high and a pony of thirteen hands, and the difference of a foot in the height of a quadruped
is exemplified. The word being given, the crowd rushed upon the elephant, and about three hundred
people were attacking the carcase with knives and lances. About a dozen men were working inside
as though in a tunnel; they had chosen this locality as being near to the fat, which was greatly
coveted.

A few days later I attempted to set fire to the grass jungle, but it would not burn thoroughly,
leaving scorched stems that were rendered still tougher by the fire. On the following evening
I took a stroll over the burnt ground to look for game. No elephants had visited the spot;
but as I was walking along expecting nothing, up jumped a wild boar and sow from the entrance
of a large hole of the Manis, or great scaled anteater. Being thus taken by surprise, the boar
very imprudently charged me, and was immediately knocked over dead by a shot through the spine
from the little Fletcher rifle, while the left-hand barrel rolled over his companion, who almost
immediately recovered and disappeared in the grass jungle; however, there was pork for those
who liked it, and I went to the camp and sent a number of natives to bring it home. The Obbo
people were delighted, as it was their favourite game, but none of my people would touch the
unclean animal. The wild pigs of this country live underground; they take possession of the
holes made by the Manis: these they enlarge and form cool and secure retreats. I trust the
year 1864 will bring better luck than the past, that having been the most annoying that I have
ever experienced, and full of fever. I hope now to reach Kamrasi's country in a fortnight,
and to obtain guides from him direct to the lake. My Latooka, to whom I have been very kind,
has absconded: there is no difference in any of these savages; if hungry, they will fawn upon
you, and when filled, they will desert. I believe that ten years' residence in the Soudan and
this country would spoil an Angel, and would turn the best heart to stone." Mrs. Baker rode
her ox, but my animal being very shy, I ordered him to be driven for about a mile with the
others to accustom him to the crowd: not approving of the expedition, he bolted into the high
grass with my English saddle, and I never saw him again. In my weak state I had to walk. We
had not gone far when a large fly fastened upon Mrs. Baker's ox, just by his tail, the effect
of which was to produce so sudden a kick and plunge, that he threw her to the ground and hurt
her considerably: she accordingly changed the animal, and rode a splendid ox that Ibrahim very
civilly offered. I had to walk to the Atabbi, about eighteen miles, which, although a pleasant
stroll when in good health, I found rather fatiguing. We bivouacked on the south bank of the
Atabbi.

The next morning, after a walk of about eight miles, I purchased of one of the Turks the best
ox that I have ever ridden, at the price of a double-barrelled gun---it was a great relief
to be well mounted, as I was quite unfit for a journey on foot.

At 4.30 P.m. we arrived at one of the villages of Farajoke. The character of the country had
entirely changed; instead of the rank and superabundant vegetation of Obbo, we were in a beautiful
open country, naturally drained by its undulating character, and abounding in most beautiful
low pasturage. Vast herds of cattle belonged to the different villages, but these had all been
driven to concealment, as the report had been received that the Turks were approaching. The
country was thickly populated, but the natives appeared very mistrustful; the Turks immediately
entered the villages, and ransacked the granaries for corn, digging up the yams, and helping
themselves to everything as though quite at home. I was on a beautiful grass sward on the gentle
slope of a hill: here I arranged to bivouac for the night.

In three days' march from this point through beautiful park-like country, we arrived at the
Asua river. The entire route from Farajoke had been a gentle descent, and I found this point
of the Asua in lat N. 3 degrees 12 minutes to be 2,875 feet above the sea level, 1,091 feet
lower than Farajoke. The river was a hundred and twenty paces broad, and from the bed to the
top of the perpendicular banks was about fifteen feet. At this season it was almost dry, and
a narrow channel of about six inches deep flowed through the centre of the otherwise exhausted
river. The bed was much obstructed by rocks, and the inclination was so rapid that I could
readily conceive the impossibility of crossing it during the rains. It formed the great drain
of the country, all its waters flowing to the Nile, but during the dry months it was most insignificant.
The country between Farajoke and the Asua, although lovely, was very thinly populated, and
the only villages that I saw were built upon low hills of bare granite, which lay in huge piles
of disjointed fragments.

On arrival at the river, while the men were washing in the clear stream, I took a rifle and
strolled along the margin; I shortly observed a herd of the beautiful Mehedehet antelopes feeding
upon the rich but low grass of a sandbank in the very centre of the river. Stalking them to
within a hundred and twenty paces they obtained my wind, and, ceasing to graze, they gazed
intently at me. I was on the high bank among the bushes, and I immediately picked out the biggest,
and fired, missing my mark. All dashed away except the animal at which I fired, who stood in
uncertainty for a few moments, when the second barrel of the Fletcher 24 rifle knocked him
over, striking him through the neck. Hearing the quick double shot, my people came running
to the spot, accompanied by a number of the native porters, and were rejoiced to find a good
supply of meat; the antelope weighed about five hundred pounds, and was sufficient to afford
a good dinner for the whole party.

The Mehedehet is about 13 hands high, with rough, brown hair like the Samber deer of India.
Our resting-place was on the dry, rocky bed of the river, close to the edge of the shallow
but clear stream that rippled over the uneven surface. Some beautiful tamarind trees afforded
a most agreeable shade, and altogether it was a charming place to bivouac. Although at Obbo
the grass was not sufficiently dry to burn, in this country it was reduced to a crisp straw,
and I immediately set fire to the prairies; the wind was strong, and we had a grand blaze,
the flames crackling and leaping about thirty feet high, and sweeping along with so mad a fury
that within an hour the entire country was a continuous line of fire. Not a trace of vegetation
remained behind; the country appeared as though covered with a pall of black velvet. Returning
from my work, I found my camping place well arranged--beds prepared, and a good dinner ready
of antelope soup and cutlets. On waking the next morning, I found that the Turks had all disappeared
during the night, and that I was alone with my people. It was shortly explained that they had
departed to attack some village, to which they were guided by some natives who had accompanied
them from Farajoke.

I accordingly took my rifle and strolled along the margin of the river to look for game, accompanied
by two of my porters. Although it was a most likely country, being a natural park well timbered,
with a river flowing through the midst, there was a great scarcity of wild animals. At length,
in crossing a ravine that had stopped the progress of the fire, an antelope (water buck) jumped
out of a hollow, and, rushing through the high grass, he exposed himself for an instant in
crossing the summit of a bare knoll, and received a ball from the little Fletcher in the hindquarters.
Although badly wounded, he was too nimble for my natives, who chased him with their spears
for about a quarter of a mile. These fellows tracked him beautifully, and we at length found
him hiding in a deep pool in the river, and he was immediately dispatched.

After a long walk, during which I did not obtain another shot, I returned to my resting-place,
and, refreshed by a bathe in the cool river, I slept as sound as though in the most luxurious
bed in England. On the following morning I went out early, and shot a small species of antelope;
and shortly after my return to breakfast, the Turks' party arrived, bringing with them about
three hundred head of cattle that they had captured from the Madi tribe. They did not seem
at all in good spirits, and I shortly heard that they had lost their standard-bearer, killed
in the fight, and that the flag had been in great peril, and had been saved by the courage
of a young Bari slave. The ensign was separated from the main party, and was attacked by four
natives, who killed the bearer, and snatched away the flag: this would inevitably have been
lost, had not the Bari boy of about fifteen shot the foremost native dead with a pistol, and,
snatching the flag from his hands, ran with it towards the Turks, some of whom coming up at
that instant, the natives did not think it wise to pursue their advantage. A number of slaves
had been captured; among others, several young children, one of whom was an infant. These unfortunate
women and children, excepting the infant, were all tied by the neck with a long leathern thong,
so as to form a living chain, and guards were set over them to prevent escape.

The Bari natives would make good soldiers, as they are far more courageous than most of the
savage tribes. The best men among the party of Ibrahim are Baris; among them is a boy named
Arnout; he is the drummer, and he once saved his master in a fight by suddenly presenting his
drumstick like a pistol at several natives, who had attacked him while unloaded. The natives,
seeing the determined attitude of the boy, and thinking that the drumstick was a firearm, ran
off. We started at daybreak on 13th January, and, ascending the whole way, we reached Shooa,
in latitude 3 degrees 4 minutes. The route throughout had been of the same parklike character,
interspersed with occasional hills of fine granite, piled in the enormous blocks so characteristic
of that stone.

Shooa was a lovely place. A fine granite mountain ascended in one block in a sheer precipice
for about 800 feet from its base, perfectly abrupt on the eastern side, while the other portions
of the mountain were covered with fine forest trees, and picturesquely dotted over with villages.
This country formed a natural park, remarkably well watered by numerous rivulets, ornamented
with fine timber, and interspersed with numerous high rocks of granite, which from a distance
produced the effect of ruined castles.

The pasturage was of a superior quality, and of the same description as that of Farajoke. The
country being undulating, there was a small brook in every valley that formed a natural drain.
Accordingly, the more elevated land was remarkably dry and healthy. On arrival at the foot
of the abrupt mountain, we camped beneath an immense india-rubber tree, that afforded a delightful
shade, from which elevated spot we had a superb view of the surrounding country, and could
see the position of Debono's camp, about twenty-five miles to the west by north, at the foot
of the Faloro hills.

By Casella's thermometer, I determined the altitude of Shooa to be 3,877 feet--1,002 feet above
the Asua river, and 89 feet lower than Farajoke. These observations of the thermometer agreed
with the natural appearance of the country, the Asua river forming the main drain in a deep
valley, into which innumerable rivulets convey the drainage from both north and south. Accordingly,
the Asua, receiving the Atabbi river, which is the main drain of the western face of the Madi
mountains, and the entire drainage of the Madi and Shooa countries, together with that of extensive
countries to the east of Shooa, including the rivers Chombi and Udat, from Lira and Umiro,
it becomes a tremendous torrent so long as the rains continue, and conveys a grand volume of
water to the Nile; but the inclination of all these countries tending rapidly to the northwest,
the bed of the Asua river partakes of the general incline, and so quickly empties after the
cessation of the rains that it becomes nil as a river. By the mean of several observations
I determined the latitude of Shooa 3 degrees 04 minutes, longitude 32 degrees 04 minutes E.

We were now about twelve miles south of Debono's outpost, Faloro. The whole of the Shooa country
was assumed to belong to Mahommed Wat-el-Mek, the vakeel of Debono, and we had passed the ashes
of several villages that had been burnt and plundered by these people between Farajoke and
this point; the entire country had been laid waste.

There was no great chief at Shooa; each village had a separate headman; formerly the population
had occupied the lower ground, but since the Turks had been established at Faloro and had plundered
the neighbouring tribes, the natives had forsaken their villages and had located themselves
among the mountains for security. It was the intention of Ibrahim to break through the rules
accepted by the White Nile traders, and to establish himself at Shooa, which, although claimed
by Debono's people, would form an excellent point d'appui for operations towards the unknown south.

Shooa was "flowing with milk and honey;" fowls, butter, goats, were in abundance and ridiculously
cheap; beads were of great value, as few had ever reached that country. The women flocked to
see Mrs. Baker, bringing presents of milk and flour, and receiving beads and bracelets in return.
The people were precisely the same as those of Obbo and Farajoke in language and appearance,
exceedingly mild in their manner, and anxious to be on good terms.

The cultivation in this country was superior to anything that I had seen farther north; large
quantities of sesame were grown and carefully harvested, the crop being gathered and arranged
in oblong frames about twenty feet long by twelve high. These were inclined at an angle of
about sixty--the pods of the sesame plants on one face, so that the frames resembled enormous
brushes. In this manner the crop was dried previous to being stored in the granaries. Of the
latter there were two kinds---the wicker-work smeared with cow dung, supported on four posts,
with a thatched roof; and a simple contrivance by fixing a stout pole about twenty feet long
perpendicularly in the earth. About four feet from the ground a bundle of strong and long reeds
are tied tightly round the pole; hoops of wicker-work are then bound round them at intervals
until they assume the form of an inverted umbrella half expanded; this being filled with grain,
fresh reeds are added, until the work has extended to within a few feet of the top of the pole;
the whole is then capped with reeds securely strapped: the entire granary has the appearance
of a cigar, but thicker in proportion about the middle.

Descending the picturesque rocky hill of Fatiko, we entered upon a totally distinct country.
We had now before us an interminable sea of prairies, covering to the horizon a series of gentle
undulations inclining from east to west. There were no trees except the dolape palms; these
were scattered at long intervals in the bright yellow surface of high grass. The path was narrow,
but good, and after an hour's march we halted for the night on the banks of a deep and clear
stream, the Un-y-ame;--this stream is perennial, and receiving many rivulets from Shooa, it
forms a considerable torrent during the rainy season, and joins the Nile in N. lat. 3 degrees
32 minutes at the limit reached by Signor Miani, 1859, the first traveller who ever attained
a point so far south in Nile explorations from Egypt. There was no wood for fires, neither
dung of animals; thus without fuel we went supperless to bed. Although the sun was painfully
hot during the day, the nights were so cold (about 55 degrees F) that we could hardly sleep.

For two days we marched through high dry grass, (about ten feet), when a clear night allowed
an observation, and the meridian altitude of Capella gave latitude 2 degrees 45 minutes 37
seconds. In this interminable sea of prairie it was interesting to watch our progress south.

In about an hour we marched over the black and smoking ground, every now and then meeting dead
stumps of palm trees blazing; until we at length reached another swamp. There the fire had
terminated in its course south, being stopped by the high green reeds, and it was raging to
the east and west. Again the tedious operation had to be performed, and the grass was fired
in many places on the opposite side of the swamp, while we waited until the cleared way was
sufficiently cool to allow the march. We were perfectly black, as the wind brought showers
of ashes that fell like snow, but turned us into Ethiopians. I had led the way on foot from
the hour we left Fatiko, as, the country being uninhabited for five days' march between that
place and Kamrasi's, the men had more faith in my steering by the compass than they had in
the native guide. I felt sure that we were being deceived, and that the woman Bacheeta had
directed the guide to take us to Rionga's. Accordingly that night, when Canopus was in the
meridian, I asked our conductor to point by a star the direction of Karuma Falls. He immediately
pointed to Canopus, which I knew by Speke's map should be the direction of Rionga's islands,
and I charged him with the deceit. He appeared very much astonished, and asked me "why I wanted
a guide if I knew the way?" confessing that Karuma Falls were "a little to the east of the
star." I thanked Speke and Grant at that moment, and upon many other occasions, for the map
they had so generously given me! It has been my greatest satisfaction to have completed their
great discovery, and to bear testimony to the correctness of their map and general observations.

The march was exceedingly fatiguing: there was a swamp at least every half hour during the
day, at each of which we had the greatest difficulty in driving the oxen, who were above the
girths in mud. One swamp was so deep that we had to carry the luggage piecemeal on an angarep
by about twelve men, and my wife being subjected to the same operation was too heavy, and the
people returned with her as impracticable. I accordingly volunteered for service, and carried
her on my back; but when in the middle of the swamp, the tenacious bottom gave way, and I sank,
and remained immoveably fixed, while she floundered froglike in the muddy water. I was extricated
by the united efforts of several men, and she was landed by being dragged through the swamp.
We marched for upwards of ten hours per day, so great were the delays in crossing the morasses
and in clearing off the grass jungle by burning.

On the fourth day we left the prairies, and entered a noble forest; this was also so choked
with high grass that it was impossible to proceed without burning the country in advance. There
had been no semblance of a path for some time; and the only signs of game that we had seen
were the tracks of elephants and a large herd of buffaloes, the fire having scared all wild
animals from the neighbourhood. An attack of fever seized me suddenly, and I was obliged to
lie down for four or five hours under a tree until the fit had passed away, when, weak and
good for nothing, I again mounted my ox and rode on. On the 22d January, from an elevated position
in the forest at sunrise, we saw a cloud of fog hanging in a distant valley, which betokened
the presence of the Somerset river. The guide assured us that we should reach the river that
day. I extract the note from my journal on that occasion:

"Marched, 6h. 20m., reaching the Somerset river, or Victoria White Nile. I never made so tedious
a journey, owing to the delays of grass, streams, and deep swamps, but since we gained the
forest these obstacles were not so numerous. Many tracks of elephants, rhinoceros, and buffaloes;
but we saw nothing. On the north side the river all is uninhabited forest, full of buffalo
and elephant pitfalls, into which three of our cattle have already fallen, including my beautiful
riding ox, which is thus so sprained as to be rendered useless. They said 'they were friends
of Mahommed's people who attacked Kamrasi, and Rionga being his enemy became their ally.' I
must now be very careful, lest the news should reach Kamrasi that I am in Rionga's country,
which would cut off all chance of travelling in Unyoro. "The slave woman, Bacheeta, secretly
instructed the guide to lead us to Rionga instead of to Kamrasi, precisely as I had suspected.
The Karuma Falls are a day's march east of this, at which point we must cross the river. Obtained
a clear observation of Capella, meridian altitude showing latitude 2 degrees 18 minutes N."

We could get no supplies from Rionga's people, who returned to their island after their conference
with Bacheeta, promising to send us some plantains and a basket of flour; but upon gaining
their secure retreat they shouted, "that we might go to Kamrasi if we liked, but that we should
receive no assistance from them." Early in the morning we started for Karuma. This part of
the forest was perfectly open, as the grass had been burnt by the natives about three weeks
ago, and the young shoots of the vines were appearing from the scorched roots; among other
plants was an abundance of the prickly asparagus, of which I collected a basketful. Nothing
could exceed the beauty of the march. Our course through the noble forest was parallel with
the river, that roared beneath us on our right in a succession of rapids and falls between
high cliffs covered with groves of bananas and varieties of palms, including the graceful wild
date---the certain sign of either marsh or river. The Victoria Nile or Somerset river was about
150 yards wide; the cliffs on the south side were higher than those upon the north, being about
150 feet above the river. These heights were thronged with natives, who had collected from
the numerous villages that ornamented the cliffs situated among groves of plantains; they were
armed with spears and shields; the population ran parallel to our line of march, shouting and
gesticulating as though daring us to cross the river.

Karuma Falls were about three hundred yards to our left as we faced Atada; they were very insignificant,
not exceeding five feet in height, but curiously regular, as a ridge of rock over which they
fell extended like a wall across the river. The falls were exactly at the bend of the river,
which, from that point, turned suddenly to the west. The women were neatly dressed in short
petticoats with a double skirt-many exposed the bosom, while others wore a piece of bark cloth
arranged as a plaid across the chest and shoulders. This cloth is the produce of a species
of fig tree, the bark of which is stripped off in large pieces and then soaked in water and
beaten with a mallet: in appearance it much resembles corduroy, and is the colour of tanned
leather; the finer qualities are peculiarly soft to the touch, as though of woven cotton. Every
garden is full of this species of tree, as their cultivation is necessary for the supply of
clothing; when a man takes a wife he plants a certain number of trees, that are to be the tailors
of the expected family.

The northern district of Unyoro at Karuma is called Chopi, the language being the same as the
Madi, and different to the southern and central portions of the kingdom. The people are distinct
in their type, but they have the woolly hair of negroes, like all other tribes of the White Nile.

By astronomical observation I determined the latitude of Atada at Karuma Falls, 2 degrees 15
minutes; and by Casella's thermometer, the altitude of the river level above the sea 3,996 feet.

After the disgusting naked tribes that we had been travelling amongst for more than twelve
months, it was a delightful change to find ourselves in comparative civilization: this was
evinced not only in the decency of clothing, but also in the manufactures of the country. The
blacksmiths were exceedingly clever, and used iron hammers instead of stone; they drew fine
wire from the thick copper and brass wire that they received from Zanzibar; their bellows were
the same as those used by the more savage tribes--but the greatest proof of their superior
civilization was exhibited in their pottery.

A few extracts from my journal will describe the delay at Atada:--

"JAN. 26th, 1864.--The huts are very large, about 20 feet in diameter, made entirely of reeds
and straw, and very lofty, looking in the interior like huge inverted baskets, beehive shaped,
very different to the dog-kennels of the more northern tribes. We received a message today
that we were not to expect Kamrasi, as 'great men were never in a hurry to pay visits.' None
of the principal chiefs have yet appeared. Kidgwiga is expected today; but people are flocking
in from the country to see the white lady. It is very trying to the patience to wait here until
it pleases these almighty niggers to permit our people to cross the river."

"JAN. 27th.--Time passing fruitlessly while every day is valuable. The rains will, I fear,
commence before my work is completed; and the Asua river, if flooded, will cut off my return
to Gondokoro. In this district there is a large population and extensive cultivation. There
are many trees resembling the Vacoua of Mauritius, but the leaves are of a different texture,
producing a species of flax. Every day there is a report that the headman, sent by Kamrasi,
is on the road; but I see no signs of him."

"JAN. 28th.--Reports brought that Kamrasi has sent his headman with a large force, including
some of Speke's deserters. They are to inspect me, and report whether I am really a white man
and an Englishman. If so, I believe we are to proceed; if not, I suppose we are to be exterminated.
Lest there should be any mistake I have taken all necessary precautions; but, having only eight
men on this side the river, I shall be certain to lose my baggage in the event of a disturbance,
as no one could transport it to the canoe."

"JAN. 29th.--Plantains, sweet potatoes, and eggs supplied in great quantities. The natives
are much amused at our trying the eggs in water before purchase. Plantains, three for one small
bead. The headman is expected today. A polite message arrived last night from Kamrasi inviting
us to his capital, and apologizing for being unable to come in person. This morning the force,
sent by Kamrasi, is reported to be within an hour's march of Atada. "In midday the headman
arrived with a great number of men, accompanied by three of Speke's deserters, one of whom
has been created a chief by Kamrasi, and presented with two wives.

"JAN. 30th.--This morning all remaining men and baggage were brought across the river, and
supplies were brought in large quantities for sale. We are to march tomorrow direct to Kamrasi's
capital; they say he will give me a guide to the lake.

"The natives of this country are particularly neat in all they do; they never bring anything
to sell unless carefully packed in the neatest parcels, generally formed of the bark of the
plantain, and sometimes of the inner portions of reeds stripped into snow-white stalks, which
are bound round the parcels with the utmost care. Should the plantain cider, 'maroua,' be brought
in a jar, the mouth is neatly covered with a fringe-like mat of these clean white rushes split
into shreds. Not even tobacco is brought for sale unless most carefully packed. During a journey,
a pretty, bottle-shaped, long-necked gourd is carried with a store of plantain cider: the mouth
of the bottle is stopped with a bundle of the white rush shreds, through which a reed is inserted
that reaches to the bottom: thus the drink can be sucked up during the march without the necessity
of halting; nor is it possible to spill it by the movement of walking.

"The natives prepare the skins of goats very beautifully, making them as soft as chamois leather;
these they cut into squares, and sew together as neatly as would be effected by a European
tailor, converting them into mantles which are prized far more highly than bark cloth, on account
of their durability: they manufacture their own needles, not by boring the eye, but by sharpening
the end into a fine point and turning it over, the extremity being hammered into a small cut
in the body of the needle to prevent it from catching.

"Clothes of all kinds are in great demand here, and would be accepted to any amount in exchange
for ivory. Beads are extremely valuable, and would purchase ivory in large quantities, but
the country would, in a few years, become overstocked. Clothes being perishable articles would
always be in demand to supply those worn out; but beads, being imperishable, very soon glut
the market. Here is, as I had always anticipated, an opportunity for commencing legitimate
trade." Started at 7 A.M. and marched ten miles and a half parallel with the Nile, south; the
country thickly populated, and much cultivated with sesame, sweet potatoes, beans, tullaboon,
dhurra, Indian corn, and plantains.

"The native porters relieved each other at every village, fresh men being always in readiness
on the road. The river is here on a level with the country, having no high banks; thus there
is a great fall from Karuma towards the west. Halted in a grove of plantains near a village.
The plantains of this country are much higher than those of Ceylon, and the stems are black,
rising to 25 or 30 feet. The chief of the district came to meet us, and insisted upon our remaining
at his village today and tomorrow to 'eat and drink,' or Kamrasi would kill him; thus we are
delayed when time is precious. The chief's name is 'Matta-Goomi.' There is now no secret about
the lake. Both he and all the natives say that the Luta N'zige lake is larger than the Victoria
N'yanza, and that both lakes are fed by rivers from the great mountain Bartooma. Is that mountain
the M'fumbiro of Speke? the difference of name being local. According to the position of the
mountain pointed out by the chief, it bears from this spot S. 45 degrees W. Latitude of this
place by meridian altitude of Capella, 2 degrees 5 minutes 32 seconds. 

"F. (my wife) taken seriously ill with bilious fever."

"FEB. 1st.--F. dreadfully ill; all the natives have turned out of their villages, leaving their
huts and gardens at our disposal. This is the custom of the country should the king give orders
that a visitor is to be conducted through his dominions.

"The natives of Unyoro have a very superior implement to the molote used among the northern
tribes; it is an extremely powerful hoe, fitted upon a handle, similar to those used on the
sugar estates in the West Indies, but the blade is heart-shaped: with these they cultivate
the ground very deep for their beds of sweet potatoes. The temperature during the day ranges
from 80 degrees to 84 degrees, and at night it is cold, 56 degrees to 58 degrees Fahr. It is
very unhealthy, owing to the proximity of the river."

"FEB. 2d.--Marched five miles. F. carried in a litter, very ill. I fell ill likewise. Halted."

"FEB. 3d.--F. very ill. Carried her four miles and halted." Mountains in view to south and
southeast, about ten miles distant. The country, forest interspersed with villages: the Somerset
generally parallel to the route. There are no tamarinds in this neighbourhood, nor any other
acid fruit; thus one is sorely pressed in the hours of fever. One of the black women servants,
Fadeela, is dying of fever."

"FEB. 5th.--F. (Mrs. Baker) so ill, that even the litter is too much for her. Heaven help us
in this country! The altitude of the river level above the sea at this point is 4,056 feet."

"Feb. 6th.--F. slightly better. Started at 7 A.M. The country the same as usual. Halted at
a village after a short march of three miles and a half. Here we are detained for a day while
a message is sent to Kamrasi. Tomorrow, I believe, we are to arrive at the capital of the tyrant.
He sent me a message today, that the houses he had prepared for me had been destroyed by fire,
and to beg me to wait until he should have completed others. The truth is, he is afraid of
our large party, and he delays us in every manner possible, in order to receive daily reports
of our behaviour on the road. Latitude by observation at this point, 1 degree 50 minutes 47
seconds N."

"FEB. 7th.--Detained here for a day. I never saw natives so filthy in their dwellings as the
people of Unyoro. Goats and fowls share the but with the owner, which, being littered down
with straw, is a mere cattle-shed, redolent of man and beast. The natives sleep upon a mass
of straw, upon a raised platform, this at night being covered with a dressed skin. Yesterday
the natives brought coffee in small quantities to sell. They have no idea of using it as a
drink, but simply chew it raw as a stimulant. It is a small and finely-shaped grain, with a
good flavour. It is brought from the country of Utumbi, about a degree south of this spot."

"FEB. 8th.--Marched eight miles due south. The river makes a long bend to E.N.E., and this
morning's march formed the chord of the arc. Halted; again delayed for the day, as we are not
far from the capital, and a messenger must be sent to the king for instructions before we proceed.
I never saw such abject cowardice as the redoubted Kamrasi exhibits. Debono's vakeel having
made a razzia upon his frontier has so cowed him, that he has now left his residence, and retreated
to the other side of a river, from which point he sends false messages to delay our advance
as much as possible. There is a total absence of dignity in his behaviour; no great man is
sent to parley, but the king receives contradictory reports from the many-tongued natives that
have utterly perplexed him. He is told by some that we are the same people that came with Ras-Galla
(Debono's captain), and he has neither the courage to repel or to receive us. Our force of
112 armed men could eat the country in the event of a fight, provided that a large supply of
ammunition were at hand. The present store is sixty rounds for each man, which would not be
sufficient."

"FEB. 9th.--After endless discussions and repeated messages exchanged with the king, he at
length sent word that I was to come ALONE. To this I objected; and, upon my starting with my
men, the guide refused to proceed. The woman Bacheeta had told the natives that we were separate
parties.

"A severe attack of fever prevented me from starting. This terrible complaint worries me sadly,
as I have no quinine."

"FEB. 10th.--The woman Fadeela died of fever. I am rather better, and the chief is already
here to escort us to Kamrasi.

It rained in torrents, and our hut became so damp from the absorption of the marsh soil, that
my feet sank in the muddy floor. I had fever daily at about 3 P.M. and lay perfectly helpless
for five or six hours, until the attack passed off; this reduced me to extreme weakness. My
wife suffered quite as acutely. It was a position of abject misery, which will be better explained
by a few rough extracts from my journal:--

"FEB. 16th.--ALL MY PORTERS HAVE DESERTED, having heard that the lake is so far distant; I
have not one man left to carry my luggage. Should we not be able to cross the Asua river before
the flood, we shall be nailed for another year to this abominable country, ill with fever,
and without medicine, clothes, or supplies.

"FEB. 17th.--Fever last night; rain, as usual, with mud accompaniment. One of Kamrasi's headmen,
whose tongue I have loosened by presents, tells me that he has been to the lake in ten days
to purchase salt, and that a man loaded with salt can return in fifteen days. God knows the
truth! and I am pressed for time, while Kamrasi delays me in the most annoying manner.

"Kamrasi came today; as usual, he wanted all that I had, and insisted upon a present of my
sword, watch, and compass, all of which I positively refused. I told him that he had deceived
me by saying that the lake was so distant as six months' journey, as I knew that it was only
ten days. He rudely answered, 'Go, if you like; but don't blame me if you can't get back: it
is twenty days' march; you may believe it or not, as you choose.' To my question as to the
means of procuring porters, he gave no reply, except by asking for my sword, and for my beautiful
little Fletcher rifle.

"I retired to my hut in disgust. This afternoon a messenger arrived from the king with twenty-four
small pieces of straw, cut into lengths of about four inches. These he laid carefully in a
row, and explained that Speke had given that number of presents, whereas I had only given ten,
the latter figure being carefully exemplified by ten pieces of straw; he wished to know 'why
I did not give him the same number as he had received from Speke?' This miserable, grasping,
lying coward is nevertheless a king, and the success of my expedition depends upon him."

"FEB. 20th.--Cloudy, as usual; neither sun, moon, nor stars will show themselves. Fortunately,
milk can be procured here. I live upon buttermilk. Kamrasi came, and gave twenty elephants'
tusks as a present to Ibrahim. There is a report that Debono's people, under the command of
Ras-Galla, are once more at Rionga's; this has frightened him awfully."

Feb. 21st.-This morning Kamrasi was civil enough to allow us to quit the marsh, the mosquito-nest
and fever-bed where we had been in durance, and we crossed to the other side of the Kafoor
river, and quartered in M'rooli. I went to see him, and, after a long consultation, he promised
to send me to the lake tomorrow. I immediately took off my sword and belt, and presented them
to him, explaining that, as I was now convinced of his friendship, I had a pleasure in offering
my sword as a proof of my amicable feeling, as I thus placed the weapon of self-defence in
his hand, and I should trust to his protection. As a proof of the temper of the blade, I offered
to cut through the strongest shield he could produce. This delighted him amazingly. I now trust
to be able to reach the junction of the Somerset with the M-wootan N'zige at Magungo, and from
thence to overtake Ibrahim at Shooa, and to hurry on to Gondokoro, where a boat will be waiting
for me from Khartoum.

"Ibrahim and his men marched this morning, on their return to Karuma, leaving me here with
my little party of thirteen men.

"Should I succeed in discovering the lake I shall thank God most sincerely. The toil, anxiety,
the biting annoyances I have daily been obliged to put up with in my association with the Turks,
added to our now constant ill-health, are enough to break down the constitution of an elephant.
Every day I must give!--to the Turks, give!--to the natives, give! If I lend anything to the
Turks, it is an insult should I ask for its return. One hasty word might have upset my boat;
and now, for twelve months, I have had to talk, to explain, to manage, and to lead the brutes
in this direction, like a coachman driving jibbing horses. Hosts of presents to Ibrahim, combined
with a vivid description of the advantages that he would secure by opening a trade with Kamrasi,
at length led him to this country, which I could not have reached without his aid, as it would
have been impossible for me to have procured porters without cattle. The porters I have always
received from him as far as Karuma for a payment of six copper rings per head for every journey.
I have now arranged that he shall leave for me thirty head of cattle at Shooa; thus, should
he have started for Gondokoro before my arrival at Shooa, I shall be able to procure porters,
and arrive in time for the expected boat.

"Up to this day astronomical observations have been impossible, a thick coat of slate colour
obscuring the heavens. Tonight I obtained a good observation of Canopus, giving latitude 1
degree 38 minutes N. By Casella's thermometer I made the altitude of the Somerset at M'rooli
4,061 feet above the sea, showing a fall of 65 feet between this point and below the falls
at Karuma in a distance of 37 miles of latitude.

"Just as Ibrahim was leaving this morning I was obliged to secure the slave Bacheeta as interpreter,
at the price of three double-barrelled guns to purchase her freedom. I explained to her that
she was now free, and that I wished her to act as interpreter during my stay in Unyoro; and
that I would then leave her in her own country, Chopi, on my return from the lake. Far from
being pleased at the change, she regretted the loss of the Turks, and became excessively sulky,
although my wife decked her out with beads, and gave her a new petticoat to put her in a good
humour."

"Feb. 22d.--Kamrasi promised to send me porters, and that we should start for the lake today,
but there is no sign of preparation; thus am I delayed when every day is so precious. Added
to this trouble, the woman that I have as an interpreter wall not speak, being the most sulky
individual I ever encountered. In the evening Kamrasi sent to say he would give a guide and
porters tomorrow morning. It is impossible to depend upon him."

After some delay we were at length honoured by a visit from Kamrasi, accompanied by a number
of his people, and he promised that we should start on the following day. He pointed out a
chief and a guide who were to have us in their charge, and who were to see that we obtained
all that we should require.

CHAPTER XI.

That afternoon, after a march through a most beautiful forest of large mimosas in full blossom,
we arrived at the morass that had necessitated this great detour from our direct course to
the lake. It was nearly three-quarters of a mile broad, and so deep, that in many places the
oxen were obliged to swim; both Mrs. Baker and I were carried across on our angareps by twelve
men with the greatest difficulty; the guide, who waded before us to show the way, suddenly
disappeared in a deep hole, and his bundle that he had carried on his head, being of light
substance, was seen floating like a buoy upon the surface; after a thorough sousing, the guide
reappeared, and scrambled out, and we made a circuit, the men toiling frequently up to their
necks through mud and water. On arrival at the opposite side we continued through the same
beautiful forest, and slept that night at a deserted village, M'Baze. I obtained two observations;
one of Capella, giving lat. 1 degrees 24 minutes 47 seconds N., and of Canopus 1 degree 23
minutes 29 seconds.

The next day we were much annoyed by our native escort; instead of attending to us, they employed
their time in capering and dancing about, screaming and gesticulating, and suddenly rushing
off in advance whenever we approached a village, which they plundered before we could arrive.
In this manner every place was stripped; nor could we procure anything to eat unless by purchasing
it for beads from the native escort. We slept at Karche, lat. 1 degree 19 minutes 31 seconds N.

We were both ill, but were obliged to ride through the hottest hours of the sun, as our followers
were never ready to start at an early hour in the morning. The native escort were perfectly
independent, and so utterly wild and savage in their manner, that they appeared more dangerous
than the general inhabitants of the country.

My wife was extremely anxious, since the occasion of Kamrasi's "proposal," as she was suspicious
that so large an escort as three hundred men had been given for some treacherous purpose, and
that I should perhaps be waylaid to enable them to steal her for the king. I had not the slightest
fear of such an occurrence, as sentries were always on guard during the night, and I was well
prepared during the day. It was a coup de soleil.

CHAPTER XIL

RECOVERED. We now continued on elevated ground, on the north side of a valley running from
west to east, about sixteen miles broad, and exceedingly swampy. The rocks composing the ridge
upon which we travelled due west were all gneiss and quartz, with occasional breaks, forming
narrow valleys, all of which were swamps choked with immense papyrus rushes, that made the
march very fatiguing. In one of these muddy bottoms one of my riding oxen that was ill, stuck
fast, and we were obliged to abandon it, intending to send a number of natives to drag it out
with ropes.

On arrival at a village, our guide started about fifty men for this purpose, while we continued
our journey. That evening we reached a village belonging to a headman, and very superior to
most that we had passed on the route from M'rooli: large sugarcanes of the blue variety were
growing in the fields, and I had seen coffee growing wild in the forest in the vicinity. I
was sitting at the door of the hut about two hours after sunset, smoking a pipe of excellent
tobacco, when I suddenly heard a great singing in chorus advancing rapidly from a distance
towards the entrance of the courtyard. At first I imagined that the natives intended dancing,
which was an infliction that I wished to avoid, as I was tired and feverish; but in a few minutes
the boy Saat introduced a headman, who told me that the riding ox had died in the swamp where
he had stuck fast in the morning, and that the natives had brought his body to me. "What!"
I replied, "brought his body, the entire ox, to me?" "The entire ox as he died is delivered
at your door," answered the headman; "I could not allow any of your property to be lost upon
the road. Had the body of the ox not been delivered to you, we might have been suspected of
having stolen it." I went to the entrance of the courtyard, and amidst a crowd of natives I
found the entire ox exactly as he had died. They had carried him about eight miles on a litter,
which they had constructed of two immensely long posts with cross-pieces of bamboo, upon which
they had laid the body. They would not eat the flesh, and seemed quite disgusted at the idea,
as they replied that "it had died."

It is a curious distinction of the Unyoro people, that they are peculiarly clean feeders, and
will not touch either the flesh of animals that have died, neither of those that are sick;
nor will they eat the crocodile. They asked for no remuneration for bringing their heavy load
so great a distance; and they departed in good humour as a matter of course.

Never were such contradictory people as these creatures; they had troubled us dreadfully during
the journey, as they would suddenly exclaim against the weight of their loads, and throw them
down, and bolt into the high grass; yet now they had of their own free will delivered to me
a whole dead ox from a distance of eight miles, precisely as though it had been an object of
the greatest value. Was it possible that it was so near, and that tomorrow we could say, "the
work is accomplished?" Within a quarter of a mile of the lake was a fishing village named Vacovia,
in which we now established ourselves. Everything smelt of fish--and everything looked like
fishing; not the "gentle art" of England with rod and fly, but harpoons were leaning against
the huts, and lines almost as thick as the little finger were hanging up to dry, to which were
attached iron hooks of a size that said much for the monsters of the Albert lake. On entering
the hut I found a prodigious quantity of tackle; the lines were beautifully made of the fibre
of the plantain stem, and were exceedingly elastic, and well adapted to withstand the first
rush of a heavy fish; the hooks were very coarse, but well barbed, and varied in size from
two to six inches. A number of harpoons and floats for hippopotami were arranged in good order,
and the tout ensemble of the hut showed that the owner was a sportsman.

The harpoons for hippopotami were precisely the same pattern as those used by the Hamran Arabs
on the Taka frontier of Abyssinia, having a narrow blade of three-quarters of an inch in width,
with only one barb. The rope fitted to the harpoon was beautifully made of plantain fibre,
and the float was a huge piece of ambatch-wood about fifteen inches in diameter. They speared
the hippopotamus from canoes, and these large floats were necessary to be easily distinguished
in the rough waters of the lake.

My men were perfectly astounded at the appearance of the lake. The journey had been so long,
and "hope deferred" had so completely sickened their hearts, that they had long since disbelieved
in the existence of the lake, and they were persuaded that I was leading them to the sea. They
now looked at the lake with amazement--two of them had already seen the sea at Alexandria,
and they unhesitatingly declared that this was the sea, but that it was not salt.

Vacovia was a miserable place, and the soil was so impregnated with salt, that no cultivation
was possible. Salt was the natural product of the country; and the population were employed
in its manufacture, which constituted the business of the lake shores--being exchanged for
supplies from the interior. I went to examine the pits: these were about six feet deep, from
which was dug a black sandy mud that was placed in large earthenware jars; these were supported
upon frames, and mixed with water, which filtering rapidly through small holes in the bottom,
was received in jars beneath: this water was again used with fresh mud until it became a strong
brine, when it was boiled and evaporated. The salt was white, but very bitter. I imagine that
it has been formed by the decay of aquatic plants that have been washed ashore by the waves;
decomposing, they have formed a mud deposit, and much potash is combined with the salt. The
flat sandy meadow that extends from the lake for about a mile to the foot of the precipitous
cliffs of 1,500 feet, appears to have formed at one period the bottom of the lake--in fact,
the flat land of Vacovia looks like a bay, as the mountain cliffs about five miles south and
north descend abruptly to the water, and the flat is the bottom of a horseshoe formed by the
cliffs. Were the level of the lake fifteen feet higher, this flat would be flooded to the base
of the hills.

I procured a couple of kids from the chief of the village for some blue beads, and having received
an ox as a present from the headman of Parkani in return for a number of beads and bracelets,
I gave my men a grand feast in honour of the discovery; I made them an address, explaining
to them how much trouble we should have been saved had my whole party behaved well from the
first commencement and trusted to my guidance, as we should have arrived here twelve mouths
ago; at the same time I told them, that it was a greater honour to have achieved the task with
so small a force as thirteen men, and that as the lake was thus happily reached, and Mrs. Baker
was restored to health after so terrible a danger, I should forgive them past offences and
wipe out all that had been noted against them in my journal. This delighted my people, who
ejaculated "El hamd el Illah!" (thank God!) and fell to immediately at their beef.

At sunrise on the following morning I took the compass, and accompanied by the chief of the
village, my guide Rabonga, and the woman Bacheeta, I went to the borders of the lake to survey
the country. It was beautifully clear, and with a powerful telescope I could distinguish two
large waterfalls that cleft the sides of the mountains on the opposite shore. Although the
outline of the mountains was distinct upon the bright blue sky, and the dark shades upon their
sides denoted deep gorges, I could not distinguish other features than the two great falls,
which looked like threads of silver on the dark face of the mountains. No base had been visible,
even from an elevation of 1,500 feet above the water level, on my first view of the lake, but
the chain of lofty mountains on the west appeared to rise suddenly from the water. This appearance
must have been due to the great distance, the base being below the horizon, as dense columns
of smoke were ascending apparently from the surface of the water: this must have been produced
by the burning of prairies at the foot of the mountains. The chief assured me that large canoes
had been known to cross over from the other side, but that it required four days and nights
of hard rowing to accomplish the voyage, and that many boats had been lost in the attempt.
The canoes of Unyoro were not adapted for so dangerous a journey; but the western shore of
the lake was comprised in the great kingdom of Malegga, governed by King Kajoro, who possessed
large canoes, and traded with Kamrasi from a point opposite to Magungo, where the lake was
contracted to the width of one day's voyage. He described Malegga as a very powerful country,
and of greater extent than either Unyora or Uganda.  . . . South of Malegga was a country named
Tori, governed by a king of the same name: beyond that country to the south on the western
shore  no intelligence could be obtained from any one.

The lake was known to extend as far south as Karagwe; and the old story was repeated, that
Rumanika, the king of that country, was in the habit of sending ivory-hunting parties to the
lake at Utumbi, and that formerly they had navigated the lake to Magungo. This was a curious
confirmation of the report given me by Speke at Gondokoro, who wrote: "Rumanika is constantly
in the habit of sending ivory-hunting parties to Utumbi."

The eastern shores of the lake were, from north to south, occupied by Chopi, Unyoro, Uganda,
Utumbi, and Karagwe: from the last point, which could not be less than about two degrees south
latitude, the lake was reported to turn suddenly to the west, and to continue in that direction
for an unknown distance. North of Malegga, on the west of the lake, was a small country called
M'Caroli; then Koshi, on the west side of the Nile at its exit from the lake; and on the east
side of the Nile was the Madi, opposite to Koshi. Both the guide and the chief of Vacovia informed
me that we should be taken by canoes to Magungo, to the point at which the Somerset that we
had left at Karuma joined the lake; but that we could not ascend it, as it was a succession
of cataracts the whole way from Karuma until within a short distance of Magungo. The exit of
the Nile from the lake at Koshi was navigable for a considerable distance, and canoes could
descend the river as far as the Madi.

They both agreed that the level of the lake was never lower than at present, and that it never
rose higher than a mark upon the beach that accounted for an increase of about four feet. The
entire Nile system, from the first Abyssinian tributary the Atbara in N. latitude 17 deg. 37
min. even to the equator, exhibits a uniform drainage from S.E. to N.W., every tributary flowing
in that direction to the main stream of the Nile; this system is persisted in by the Victoria
Nile, which having continued a northerly course from its exit from the Victoria lake to Karuma
in lat.

I returned to my hut: the flat turf in the vicinity of the village was strewn with the bones
of immense fish, hippopotami, and crocodiles; but the latter reptiles were merely caught in
revenge for any outrage committed by them, as their flesh was looked upon with disgust by the
natives of Unyoro. They were so numerous and voracious in the lake, that the natives cautioned
us not to allow the women to venture into the water even to the knees when filling their water
jars. I impressed upon our guide and the chief that we must be furnished with large canoes
immediately, as we had no time to spare, and I started off Rabonga to Magungo, where he was
to meet us with our riding oxen. The animals would be taken by a path upon the high ground;
there was no possibility of travelling near the lake, as the cliffs in many places descended
abruptly into deep water. I made him a present of a large quantity of beads that I had promised
to give him upon reaching the lake; he took his departure, agreeing to meet us at Magungo with
our oxen, and to have porters in readiness to convey us direct to Shooa. The air was hot and
close, and the country frightfully unhealthy. The natives assured us that all strangers suffered
in a similar manner, and that no one could live at Vacovia without repeated attacks of fever.
N.; longitude 30 degrees 50 min. E. My farthest southern point on the road from M'rooli was
latitude 1 degree 13 minutes.

Notwithstanding my daily entreaties that boats might be supplied without delay, eight days
were passed at Vacovia, during which time the whole party suffered more or less from fever.
At length canoes were reported to have arrived, and I was requested to inspect them. They were
merely single trees neatly hollowed out, but very inferior in size to the large canoes on the
Nile at M'rooli. The largest boat was thirty-two feet long, but I selected for ourselves one
of twenty-six feet, but wider and deeper.

Fortunately I had purchased at Khartoum an English screw auger 1 1/4 inch in diameter, and
this tool I had brought with me, foreseeing some difficulties in boating arrangements. I now
bored holes two feet apart in the gunwale of the canoe, and having prepared long elastic wands,
I spanned them in arches across the boat and lashed them to the auger holes. This completed,
I secured them by diagonal pieces, and concluded by thatching the framework with a thin coating
of reeds to protect us from the sun; over the thatch I stretched ox-hides well drawn and lashed,
so as to render our roof waterproof. This arrangement formed a tortoise-like protection that
would be proof against sun and rain. I then arranged some logs of exceedingly light wood along
the bottom of the canoe, and covered them with a thick bed of grass; this was covered with
an Abyssinian tanned ox-hide, and arranged with Scotch plaids. The arrangements completed,
afforded a cabin, perhaps not as luxurious as those of the Peninsular and Oriental Company's
vessels, but both rain- and sun-proof, which was the great desideratum. In this rough vessel
we embarked on a calm morning, when hardly a ripple moved the even surface of the lake. Each
canoe had four rowers, two at either end. Their paddles were beautifully shaped, hewn from
one piece of wood, the blade being rather wider than that of an ordinary spade, but concave
in the inner side, so as to give the rower a great hold upon the water. Having purchased with
some difficulty a few fowls and dried fish, I put the greater number of my men in the larger
canoe; and with Richarn, Saat, and the women, including the interpreter Bacheeta, we led the
way, and started from Vacovia on the broad surface of the Albert N'yanza. The rowers paddled
bravely; and the canoe, although heavily laden, went along at about four miles an hour. There
was no excitement in Vacovia, and the chief and two or three attendants were all who came to
see us off; they had a suspicion that bystanders might be invited to assist as rowers, therefore
the entire population of the village had deserted.

At leaving the shore, the chief had asked for a few beads, which, on receiving, he threw into
the lake to propitiate the inhabitants of the deep, that no hippopotami should upset the canoe.

Our first day's voyage was delightful. The lake was calm, the sky cloudy, and the scenery most
lovely. At times the mountains on the west coast were not discernible, and the lake appeared
of indefinite width. We coasted within a hundred yards of the east shore; sometimes we passed
flats of sand and bush of perhaps a mile in width from the water to the base of the mountain
cliffs; at other times we passed directly underneath stupendous heights of about 1,500 feet,
which ascended abruptly from the deep, so that we fended the canoes off the sides, and assisted
our progress by pushing against the rock with bamboos. These precipitous rocks were all primitive,
frequently of granite and gneiss, and mixed in many places with red porphyry. In the clefts
were beautiful ever-greens of every tint, including giant euphorbias; and wherever a rivulet
or spring glittered through the dark foliage of a ravine, it was shaded by the graceful and
feathery wild date.

Great numbers of hippopotami were sporting in the water, but I refused to fire at them, as
the death of such a monster would be certain to delay us for at least a day, as the boatmen
would not forsake the flesh. Crocodiles were exceedingly numerous both in and out of the water;
wherever a sandy beach invited them to bask, several monsters were to be seen, like trunks
of trees, lying in the sun. On the edge of the beach above high-water mark were low bushes,
and from this cover the crocodiles came scuttling down into the water, frightened at the approach
of the canoe. There were neither ducks nor geese, as there were no feeding-grounds: deep water
was close to the shore.

Our boatmen worked well, and long after dark we continued our voyage, until the canoe was suddenly
steered to the shore, and we grounded upon a steep beach of perfectly clean sand. We were informed
that we were near a village, and the boatmen proposed to leave us here for the night, while
they should proceed in search of provisions. Seeing that they intended to take the paddles
with them, I ordered these important implements to be returned to the boats, and a guard set
over them, while several of my men should accompany the boatmen to the reported village. In
the meantime, we arranged our angareps upon the beach, lighted a fire with some drift-wood,
and prepared for the night. The men shortly returned, accompanied by several natives, with
two fowls and one small kid. The latter was immediately consigned to the large copper pot,
and I paid about three times its value to the natives, to encourage them to bring supplies
on the following morning.

While dinner was preparing, I took an observation, and found our latitude was 1 degree 33 minutes
N. We had travelled well, having made 16 minutes direct northing.

On the first crowing of our solitary cock, we prepared to start;--the boatmen were gone!

As soon as it was light, I took two men and went to the village, supposing they were sleeping
in their huts. Within three hundred paces of the boats, upon a fine turfy sward, on rising
ground, were three miserable fishing huts. These constituted the village. Upon arrival, no
one was to be found: the natives had deserted. A fine tract of broken grassland formed a kind
of amphitheatre beneath the range of cliffs. These I scanned with the telescope, but I could
trace no signs of man. We were evidently deserted by our boatmen, and the natives had accompanied
them to avoid being pressed into our service.

On my return to the canoes with this intelligence, my men were quite in despair: they could
not believe that the boatmen had really absconded, and they begged me to allow them to search
the country in the hope of finding another village. Strictly forbidding any man to absent himself
from the boats, I congratulated ourselves on having well guarded the paddles, which there was
no doubt would have been stolen by the boatmen had I allowed them to remain in their possession.
I agreed to wait until 3 P.M. Should the boatmen not return by that hour, I intended to proceed
without them. There was no dependence to be placed upon these contradictory natives. Kindness
was entirely thrown away upon them. We had Kamrasi's orders for boats and men, but in this
distant frontier the natives did not appear to attach much importance to their king: nevertheless,
we were dependent upon them. Every hour was valuable, as our only chance of reaching Gondokoro
in time for the boats depended upon rapidity of travelling. At the moment when I wished to
press forward, delays occurred that were most trying.

Three P.M. arrived, but no signs of natives. "Jump into the boats, my lads!" I cried to my
men; "I know the route." The canoes were pushed from the shore, and my people manned the paddles.
Five of my men were professional boatmen, but no one understood the management of paddles except
myself. It was in vain that I attempted to instruct my crew. Pull they certainly did; but--ye
gods who watch over boats!--round and round we pirouetted, the two canoes waltzing and polking
together in their great ball-room, the Albert N'yanza. The voyage would have lasted ad infinitum.
After three hours' exertion, we reached a point of rock that stretched as a promontory into
the lake. This bluff point was covered with thick jungle to the summit, and at the base was
a small plot of sandy beach, from which there was no exit except by water, as the cliff descended
sheer to the lake upon either side. It poured with rain, and with much difficulty we lighted
a fire. Mosquitoes were in clouds, and the night was so warm that it was impossible to sleep
beneath the blankets. Arranging the angareps upon the sand, with the raw oxhides as coverlets,
we lay down in the rain. It was too hot to sleep in the boat, especially as the temporary cabin
was a perfect mosquito nest. That night I considered the best plan to be adopted, and resolved
to adapt a paddle as a rudder on the following morning. It rained without ceasing the whole
night; and, at break of day, the scene was sufficiently miserable. The men lay on the wet sand,
covered up with their raw hides, soaked completely through, but still fast asleep, from which
nothing would arouse them. My wife was also wet and wretched. It still rained. I was soon at work.

Cutting a thwart in the stern of the canoe with my hunting-knife, I bored a hole beneath it
with the large auger, and securely lashed a paddle with a thong of raw hide that I cut off
my well-saturated coverlet. I made a most effective rudder. None of my men had assisted me;
they had remained beneath their soaked skins, smoking their short pipes, while I was hard at
work. They were perfectly apathetic with despair, as their ridiculous efforts at paddling on
the previous evening had completely extinguished all hope within them. They were quite resigned
to their destiny, and considered themselves as sacrificed to geography.

I threw them the auger, and explained that I was ready to start, and should wait for no one;
and, cutting two bamboos, I arranged a mast and yard, upon which I fitted a large Scotch plaid
for a sail. We shoved off the boat; fortunately we had two or three spare paddles, therefore
the rudder paddle was not missed. I took the helm, and instructed my men to think of nothing
but pulling hard. Away we went as straight as an arrow, to the intense delight of my people.
There was very little wind, but a light air filled the plaid and eased us gently forward.

Upon rounding the promontory we found ourselves in a large bay, the opposite headland being
visible at about eight or ten miles' distance. Should we coast the bay it would occupy two
days. There was another small promontory farther in shore; I therefore resolved to steer direct
for that point before venturing in a straight line from one headland to the other.

Upon looking behind me, I observed our canoe consort about a mile astern, amusing herself with
pointing to all parts of the compass--the lazy men not having taken the trouble to adapt the
rudder as I had ordered them.

We travelled at about four miles an hour, and my people were so elated that they declared themselves
ready to row, without assistance, to the Nile junction. The water was perfectly calm, and upon
rounding the next promontory I was rejoiced to see a village in a snug little bay, and a great
number of canoes drawn up on the sandy beach, and others engaged in fishing. A number of natives
were standing on the sand close to the water's edge, about half a mile from us, and I steered
directly towards them. Upon our close approach, they immediately sat down, and held up their
paddles above their heads; this was an unmistakeable sign that they intended to volunteer as
boatmen, and I steered the boat upon the beach. No sooner had we grounded, than they rushed
into the water and boarded us, most good-humouredly pulling down our mast and sail, which appeared
to them highly absurd (as they never use sails); and they explained that they had seen on the
other side the headland that we were strangers, and their chief had ordered them to assist
us. I now begged them to send six men to the assistance of the lagging canoe; this they promised
to do, and, after waiting for some time, we started at a rattling pace to pull across the wide
bay from point to point.

When in the centre of the bay we were about four miles from land. At this time a swell set
in from the southwest. While at Vacovia I had observed, that although the mornings were calm,
a strong wind generally arose at 1 P.M. from S.W. that brought a heavy sea upon the beach.
I was now afraid that we should be subject to a gale before we could reach the opposite headland,
as the rising swell betokened wind from the old quarter, especially as dark thunderclouds were
gathering on the western shore.

I told Bacheeta to urge the rowers forward, as our heavy canoe would certainly be swamped in
the event of a gale. I looked at my watch: it was past noon, and I felt sure that we should
catch a south-wester by about one o'clock. My men looked rather green at the ominous black
clouds and the increasing swell, but exclaimed, "Inshallah, there will be no wind." With due
deference to their faith in predestination, I insisted upon their working the spare paddles,
as our safety depended upon reaching the shore before the approaching storm. They had learnt
to believe in my opinion, and they exerted themselves to their utmost. The old boat rushed
through the water, but the surface of the lake was rapidly changing; the western shore was
no longer visible, the water was dark, and innumerable white crests tipped the waves. The canoe
laboured heavily, and occasionally shipped water, which was immediately baled out with gourd
shells by my men, who now exclaimed, "Wah Illahi el kalam betar el Hawaga sahhe!" (By Allah,
what the Hawaga says is true!) We were within about a mile and a half of the point for which
we had been steering, when we could no longer keep our course; we had shipped several heavy
seas, and had we not been well supplied with utensils for baling, we should have been swamped.
Several bursts of thunder and vivid lightning were followed by a tremendous gale from about
the W.S.W. before which we were obliged to run for the shore.

In a short space of time a most dangerous sea arose, and on several occasions the waves broke
against the arched covering of the canoe, which happily protected her in a slight degree, although
we were drenched with water.

Every one was at work baling with all their might; I had no idea that the canoe could live.
Down came the rain in torrents, swept along with a terrific wind; nothing was discernible except
the high cliffs looming through the storm, and I only trusted that we might arrive upon a sandy
beach, and not upon bluff rocks. We went along at a grand rate, as the arched cover of the
canoe acted somewhat as a sail; and it was an exciting moment when we at length neared the
shore, and approached the foaming breakers that were rolling wildly upon (happily) a sandy
beach beneath the cliffs. I told my men to be ready to jump out the moment that we should touch
the sand, and to secure the canoe by hauling the head up the beach. All were ready, and we
rushed through the surf, the native boatmen paddling like steam engines. "Here comes a wave;
look out!" and just as we almost touched the beach, a heavy breaker broke over the black women
who were sitting in the stern, and swamped the boat. My men jumped into the water like ducks,
and the next moment we were all rolled in confusion on the sandy shore. The men stuck well
to the boat, and hauled her firmly on the sand, while my wife crawled out of her primitive
cabin like a caddis worm from its nest, half drowned, and jumped upon the shore. "El hamd el
Illah!" (thank God!) we all exclaimed; "now for a pull--all together!" and having so far secured
the boat that she could not be washed away, I ordered the men to discharge the cargo, and then
to pull her out of the lake. Everything was destroyed except the gunpowder; that was all in
canisters. But where was the other canoe? I made up my mind that it must be lost, for although
much longer than our boat, it was lower in the water. After some time and much anxiety, we
perceived it running for the shore about half a mile in our rear; it was in the midst of the
breakers, and several times I lost sight of it; but the old tree behaved well, and brought
the crew safe to the shore.

Fortunately there was a village not far from the spot where we landed, and we took possession
of a hut, lighted a good fire, and wrapped ourselves in Scotch plaids and blankets wrung out,
while our clothes were being dried, as there was not a dry rag in our possession.

We could procure nothing to eat, except a few dried fish that, not having been salted, were
rather high flavoured. Our fowls, and also two pet quails, were drowned in the boat during
the storm; however, the drowned fowls were made into a stew, and with a blazing fire, and clean
straw to sleep upon, the night's rest was perhaps as perfect as in the luxury of home.

On the following morning we were detained by bad weather, as a heavy sea was still running,
and we were determined not to risk our canoes in another gale. It was a beautiful neighbourhood,
enlivened by a magnificent waterfall that fell about a thousand feet from the mountains, as
the Kaiigiri river emptied itself into the lake in a splendid volume of water. This river rises
in the great marsh that we had crossed on our way from M'rooli to Vacovia. In this neighbourhood
we gathered some mushrooms--the true Agaricus campestras of Europe-- which were a great luxury.

In the afternoon the sea subsided, and we again started. We had not proceeded above three miles
from the village, when I observed an elephant bathing in the lake; he was in water so deep,
that he stood with only the top of his head and trunk above the surface. As we approached,
he sunk entirely, only the tip of his trunk remaining above the water. I ordered the boatmen
to put the canoe as close to him as possible, and we passed within thirty yards, just as he
raised his head from his luxurious bath.

I was sorely tempted to fire, but remembering my resolve, refrained from disturbing him, and
he slowly quitted the lake, and entered the thick jungle. A short distance beyond this spot
two large crocodiles were lying upon the beach asleep; but upon the approach of the canoe they
plunged into the water, and raised their heads above the surface at about twenty-five paces.
I was uncertain about my Fletcher rifle, as it had been exposed to so much wet; therefore,
to discharge it, I took a shot at the nearest crocodile just behind the eye. The little rifle
was in perfect order--thanks to Eley's "double waterproof central firecaps," which will resist
all weathers--and the bullet striking the exact spot, the great reptile gave a convulsive lash
with his tail, and turning on his back, with his paws above the water, he gradually sunk. The
native boatmen were dreadfully frightened at the report of the rifle, to the great amusement
of their countrywoman, Bacheeta, and it was with difficulty that I persuaded them to direct
the canoe to the exact spot. Being close to the shore, the water was not more than eight feet
deep, and so beautifully clear, that I could, when just above the crocodile, perceive it lying
at the bottom on its belly, and distinguish the bloody head that had been shattered by the
bullet. While one of my men prepared a slip-knot, I took a long lance that belonged to a boatman,
and drove it deep through the tough scales into the back of the neck; hauling gently, upon
the lance I raised the head near to the surface, and slipping the noose over it, the crocodile
was secured. It appeared to be quite dead, and the flesh would be a bonne-bouche for my men;
therefore we towed it to the shore. It was a fine monster, about sixteen feet long; and although
it had appeared dead, it bit furiously at a thick male bamboo which I ran into its mouth to
prevent it from snapping during the process of decapitation. The natives regarded my men with
disgust as they cut huge lumps of the choicest morsels and stowed them in the canoes; this
did not occupy more than a quarter of an hour, and hurrying on board, we continued our voyage,
well provided with meat --for all who liked it. To my taste nothing can be more disgusting
than crocodile flesh. I have eaten almost everything; but although I have tasted crocodile,
I could never succeed in swallowing it; the combined flavour of bad fish, rotten flesh, and
musk, is the carte de diner offered to the epicure.

That evening we saw an elephant with an enormous pair of tusks; he was standing on a hill about
a quarter of a mile from the boats as we halted. I was aided to resist this temptation by an
attack of fever: it rained as usual, and no village being in the neighbourhood, we bivouacked
in the rain on the beach in clouds of mosquitoes.

On the following morning the lake was calm, and we started early. The monotony of the voyage
was broken by the presence of several fine herds of elephants, consisting entirely of bulls.
I counted fourteen of these grand animals, all with large tusks, bathing together in a small
shallow lake beneath the mountains, having a communication with the main lake through a sandy
beach; these elephants were only knee deep, and having been bathing they were perfectly clean,
and their colossal black forms and large white tusks formed a beautiful picture in the calm
lake beneath the lofty cliffs. It was a scene in harmony with the solitude of the Nile Sources--the
wilderness of rocks and forest, the Blue Mountains in the distance, and the great fountain
of nature adorned with the mighty beasts of Africa; the elephants in undisturbed grandeur,
and hippopotami disporting their huge forms in the great parent of the Egyptian river.

I ordered the boatmen to run the canoe ashore, that we might land and enjoy the scene. We then
discovered seven elephants on the shore within about two hundred yards of us in high grass,
while the main herd of fourteen splendid bulls bathed majestically in the placid lake, showering
cold streams from their trunks over their backs and shoulders. There was no time to lose, as
every hour was important: quitting the shore, we once more paddled along the coast.

Day after day passed, the time occupied in travelling from sunrise to midday, at which hour
a strong gale with rain and thunder occurred regularly, and obliged us to haul our canoes ashore.
The country was very thinly inhabited, and the villages were poor and wretched; the people
most inhospitable. At length we arrived at a considerable town situated in a beautiful bay
beneath precipitous cliffs, the grassy sides of which were covered with flocks of goats; this
was Eppigoya, and the boatmen that we had procured from the last village were to deliver us
in this spot. The delays in procuring boatmen were most annoying: it appeared that the king
had sent orders that each village was to supply the necessary rowers; thus we were paddled
from place to place, at each of which the men were changed, and no amount of payment would
induce them to continue with us to the end of our voyage.

Landing at Eppigoya, we were at once met by the headman, and I proposed that he should sell
us a few kids, as the idea of a mutton chop was most appetizing. Far from supplying us with
this luxury, the natives immediately drove their flocks away, and after receiving a large present
of beads, the headman brought us a present of a sick lamb almost at the point of natural death,
and merely skin and bone. Fortunately there were fowls in thousands, as the natives did not
use them for food; these we purchased for one blue bead (monjoor) each, which in current value
was equal to 250 fowls for a shilling. Eggs were brought in baskets containing several hundreds,
but they were all poultry.

At Eppigoya the best salt was produced, and we purchased a good supply--also some dried fish;
thus provisioned, we procured boatmen, and again started on our voyage.

Hardly had we proceeded two hundred yards, when we were steered direct to the shore below the
town, and our boatmen coolly laid down their paddles and told us that they had performed their
share, and that as Eppigoya was divided into four parts under separate headmen, each portion
would supply rowers!

Ridiculous as this appeared, there was no contesting their decision; and thus we were handed
over from one to the other, and delayed for about three hours in changing boatmen four times
within a distance of less than a mile! The perfect absurdity of such a regulation, combined
with the delay when time was most precious, was trying to the temper. At every change, the
headman accompanied the boatmen to our canoe, and presented us with three fowls at parting;
thus our canoes formed a floating poultry show as we had already purchased large supplies.
Our live stock bothered us dreadfully; being without baskets, the fowls were determined upon
suicide, and many jumped deliberately overboard, while others that were tied by the legs were
drowned in the bottom of the leaky canoe.

After the tenth day from our departure from Vacovia the scenery increased in beauty. The lake
had contracted to about thirty miles in width, and was decreasing rapidly northward; the trees
upon the mountains upon the western shore could be distinguished. Continuing our voyage north,
the western shore projected suddenly, and diminished the width of the lake to about twenty
miles. It was no longer the great inland sea that at Vacovia had so impressed me, with the
clean pebbly beach that had hitherto formed the shore, but vast banks of reeds growing upon
floating vegetation prevented the canoes from landing. These banks were most peculiar, as they
appeared to have been formed of decayed vegetation, from which the papyrus rushes took root;
the thickness of the floating mass was about three feet, and so tough and firm that a man could
walk upon it, merely sinking above his ankles in the soft ooze. Beneath this raft of vegetation
was extremely deep water, and the shore for a width of about half a mile was entirely protected
by this extraordinary formation. One day a tremendous gale of wind and heavy sea broke off
large portions, and the wind acting upon the rushes like sails, carried floating islands of
some acres about the lake to be deposited wherever they might chance to hitch.

We were told that we had arrived at Magungo, and that this was the spot where the boats invariably
crossed from Malegga on the western shore to Kamrasi's country. The boatmen proposed that we
should land upon the floating vegetation, as that would be a short cut to the village or town
of Magungo; but as the swell of the water against the abrupt raft of reeds threatened to swamp
the canoe, I preferred coasting until we should discover a good landing place. After skirting
the floating reeds for about a mile, we turned sharp to the east, and entered a broad channel
of water bounded on either side by the everlasting reeds. This we were informed was the embouchure
of the Somerset river from the Victoria N'yanza. The same river that we had crossed at Karuma,
boiling and tearing along its rocky course, now entered the Albert N'yanza as dead water! I
could not understand this; there was not the slightest current; the channel was about half
a mile wide, and I could hardly convince myself that this was not an arm of the lake branching
to the east. After searching for some time for a landing place among the wonderful banks of
reeds, we discovered a passage that had evidently been used as an approach by canoes, but so
narrow that our large canoe could with difficulty be dragged through--all the men walking through
the mud and reeds, and towing with their utmost strength. Several hundred paces of this tedious
work brought us through the rushes into open water, about eight feet deep, opposite to a clean
rocky shore. We had heard voices for some time while obscured on the other side of the rushes,
and we now found a number of natives, who had arrived to meet us, with the chief of Magungo
and our guide Rabonga, whom we had sent in advance with the riding oxen from Vacovia. The water
was extremely shallow near the shore, and the natives rushed in and dragged the canoes by sheer
force over the mud to the land. We had been so entirely hidden while on the lake on the other
side of the reed bank that we had been unable to see the eastern, or Magungo shore; we now
found ourselves in a delightful spot beneath the shade of several enormous trees on firm sandy
and rocky ground, while the country rose in a rapid incline to the town of Magungo, about a
mile distant, on an elevated ridge.

My first question was concerning the riding oxen. They were reported in good order. We were
invited to wait under a tree until the presents from the headmen should be delivered. Accordingly,
while my wife sat under the shade, I went to the waterside to examine the fishing arrangements
of the natives, that were on an extensive scale. For many hundred feet, the edges of the floating
reeds were arranged to prevent the possibility of a large fish entering the open water adjoining
the shore without being trapped. A regular system of baskets were fixed at intervals, with
guiding fences to their mouths. Each basket was about six feet in diameter, and the mouth about
eighteen inches; thus the arrangements were for the monsters of the lake, the large bones of
which, strewed about the vicinity, were a witness of their size. My men had just secured the
half of a splendid fish, known in the Nile as the "baggera." They had found it in the water,
the other portion having been bitten off by a crocodile. The piece in their possession weighed
about fifty pounds. This is one of the best fish in the lake. It is shaped like the perch,
but is coloured externally like the salmon. I also obtained from the natives an exceedingly
good fish, of a peculiar form, having four long feelers at the positions that would be occupied
by the limbs of reptiles; these looked like rudiments of legs. It had somewhat the appearance
of an eel; but, being oviparous, it can have no connexion with that genus. The natives had
a most killing way of fishing with the hook and line for heavy fish. They arranged rows of
tall bamboos, the ends stuck firmly in the bottom, in a depth of about six feet of water, and
about five or ten yards apart. On the top of each was a lump of ambatch-wood about ten inches
in diameter. Around this was wound a powerful line, and, a small hole being made in this float,
it was lightly fixed upon the point of the bamboo, or fishing rod. The line was securely attached
to the bamboo, then wound round the large float, while the hook, baited with a live fish, was
thrown to some distance beyond. Long rows of these fixed rods were set every morning by natives
in canoes, and watchers attended them during the day, while they took their chance by night.
When a large fish took the bait, his first rush unhitched the ambatch-float from the point
of the bamboo, which, revolving upon the water, paid out line as required. When entirely run
out, the great size and buoyancy of the float served to check and to exhaust the fish. There
are several varieties of fish that exceed 200 lbs. weight.

A number of people now arrived from the village, bringing a goat, fowls, eggs, and sour milk,
and, beyond all luxuries, fresh butter. I delighted the chief, in return for his civility,
by giving him a quantity of beads, and we were led up the hill towards Magungo.

The day was beautifully clear. The soil was sandy and poor, therefore the road was clean and
hard; and, after the many days' boating, we enjoyed the walk, and the splendid view that lay
before us when we arrived at Magungo, and looked back upon the lake. We were about 250 feet
above the water level. There were no longer the abrupt cliffs, descending to the lake, that
we had seen in the south, but the general level of the country appeared to be about 500 feet
above the water, at a distance of five or six miles, from which point the ground descended
in undulations, Magungo being situated on the summit of the nearest incline. The mountains
on the Malegga side, with the lake in the foreground, were the most prominent objects, forming
the western boundary. A few miles north there appeared to be a gap in the range, and the lake
continued to the west, but much contracted, while the mountain range on the northern side of
the gap continued to the northeast. Due north and northeast the country was a dead flat, and
far as the eye could reach was an extent of bright green reeds, marking the course of the Nile
as it made its exit from the lake. The sheet of water at Magungo being about seventeen miles
in width, ended in a long strip or tail to the north, until it was lost in the flat valley
of green rushes. This valley may have been from four to six miles wide, and was bounded upon
its west bank by the continuation of the chain of mountains that had formed the western boundary
of the lake. The natives told me that canoes could navigate the Nile in its course from the
lake to the Madi country, as there were no cataracts for a great distance, but that both the
Madi and the Koshi were hostile, and that the current of the river was so strong, that should
the canoe descend from the lake, it could not return without many rowers. They pointed out
the country of Koshi on the west bank of the Nile, at its exit from the lake, which included
the mountains that bordered the river. The small country, M'Caroli, joined Malegga, and continued
to the west, towards the Makkarika. The natives most positively refused to take me down the
Nile from the lake into the Madi, as they said that they would be killed by the people, who
were their enemies, as I should not be with them on their return up the river. Up to the present
time all the information that I had received from Kamrasi and his people had been correct.
He had told me that I should be about twenty days from M'rooli to the lake; I had been eighteen.
He had also told me that the Somerset flowed from Karuma direct to the lake, and that, having
joined it, the great Nile issued from the lake almost immediately, and flowed through the Koshi
and Madi tribes. I now saw the river issuing from the lake within eighteen miles of Magungo;
and the Koshi and the Madi countries appeared close to me, bordering it on the west and east.

I had a bad attack of fever that evening, and missed my star for the latitude; but on the following
morning before daybreak I obtained a good observation of Vega, and determined the latitude
of Magungo 2 degrees 16 minutes due west from Atada or Karuma Falls. This was a strong confirmation
that the river beneath my feet was the Somerset that I had crossed in the same latitude at
Atada, where the river was running due west, and where the natives had pointed in that direction
as its course to the lake. Nevertheless, I was determined to verify it, although by this circuitous
route I might lose the boats from Gondokoro and become a prisoner in Central Africa, ill, and
without quinine, for another year. I proposed it to my wife, who not only voted in her state
of abject weakness to complete the river to Karuma, but wished, if possible, to return and
follow the Nile from the lake down to Gondokoro! This latter resolve, based upon the simple
principle of "seeing is believing," was a sacrifice most nobly proposed, but simply impossible
and unnecessary.

We saw from our point at Magungo the Koshi and Madi countries, and the Nile flowing out of
the lake through them. We must of necessity pass through those countries on our road to Gondokoro
direct from Karuma via Shooa, and should we not meet the river in the Madi and Koshi country,
the Nile that we now saw would not be the Nile of Gondokoro. We knew, however, that it was
so, as Speke and Grant had gone by that route, and had met the Nile near Miani's tree in lat.
3 degrees 34 min. in the Madi country, the Koshi being on its western bank; thus, as we were
now at the Nile head and saw it passing through the Madi and Koshi, any argument against the
river would be the argumentum ad absurdum. I ordered the boats to be got ready to start immediately.

The chief gave me much information, confirming the accounts that I had heard a year previous
in the Latooka countries, that formerly cowrie shells were brought in boats from the south,
and that these shells and brass coil brackets came by the lake from Karagwe. He called also
several of the natives of Malegga, who had arrived with beautifully prepared mantles of antelope
and goatskins, to exchange for bracelets and glass beads. The Malegga people were in appearance
the same as those of Unyoro, but they spoke a different language. A crowd of natives pushed
us over the shallows, and once in deep water we passed through a broad canal which led us into
the open channel without the labour of towing through the narrow inlet by which we had arrived.
The river now contracted rapidly to about 250 yards in width about ten miles from Magungo.
We had left the vast flats of rush banks, and entered a channel between high ground, forming
steep forest-covered hills, about 200 feet on either side, north and south: nevertheless there
was no perceptible stream, although there was no doubt that we were actually in the channel
of a river. The water was clear and exceedingly deep. In the evening we halted, and slept on
a mud bank close to the water. The grass in the forest was very high and rank; thus we were
glad to find an open space for a bivouac, although a nest of mosquitoes and malaria.

On waking the next morning, I observed that a thick fog covered the surface of the river; and
as I lay upon my back, on my angarep, I amused myself before I woke my men by watching the
fog slowly lifting from the river. While thus employed I was struck by the fact, that the little
green water-plants, like floating cabbages (Pistia Stratiotes, L.), were certainly, although
very slowly, moving to the west. I immediately jumped up, and watched them most attentively;
there was no doubt about it; they were travelling towards the Albert lake. We were now about
eighteen miles in a direct line from Magungo, and there was a current in the river, which,
however slight, was nevertheless perceptible.

Our toilette did not take long to arrange, as we had thrown ourselves down at night with our
clothes on; accordingly we entered the canoe at once, and gave the order to start.

The boatmen, having been promised a present of beads to induce them to approach the fall as
close as possible, succeeded in bringing the canoe within about 300 yards of the base, but
the power of the current and the whirlpools in the river rendered it impossible to proceed
farther. There was a sandbank on our left which was literally covered with crocodiles lying
parallel to each other like trunks of trees prepared for shipment; they had no fear of the
canoe until we approached within about twenty yards of them, when they slowly crept into the
water; all excepting one, an immense fellow who lazily lagged behind, and immediately dropped
dead as a bullet from the little Fletcher No. 24 struck him in the brain. So alarmed were the
boatmen at the unexpected report of the rifle that they immediately dropped into the body of
the canoe, one of them losing his paddle. Nothing would induce them to attend to the boat,
as I had fired a second shot at the crocodile as a "quietus," and the natives did not know
how often the alarming noise would be repeated. Accordingly we were at the mercy of the powerful
stream, and the canoe was whisked round by the eddy and carried against a thick bank of high
reeds;--hardly had we touched this obstruction when a tremendous commotion took place in the
rushes, and in an instant a great bull hippopotamus charged the canoe, and with a severe shock
striking the bottom he lifted us half out of the water. The natives who were in the bottom
of the boat positively yelled with terror, not knowing whether the shock was in any way connected
with the dreaded report of the rifle; the black women screamed; and the boy Saat handing me
a spare rifle, and Richarn being ready likewise, we looked out for a shot should the angry
hippo again attack us.

A few kicks bestowed by my angry men upon the recumbent boatmen restored them to the perpendicular.
The first thing necessary was to hunt for the lost paddle that was floating down the rapid
current. The hippopotamus, proud of having disturbed us, but doubtless thinking us rather hard
of texture, raised his head to take a last view of his enemy, but sank too rapidly to permit
a shot. Crocodile heads of enormous size were on all sides, appearing and vanishing rapidly
as they rose to survey us; at one time we counted eighteen upon the surface. Fine fun it would
have been for these monsters had the bull hippo been successful in his attempt to capsize us;
the fat black woman, Karka, would have been a dainty morsel. Having recovered the lost paddle,
I prevailed upon the boatmen to keep the canoe steady while I made a sketch of the Murchison
Falls, which being completed, we drifted rapidly down to the landing place at the deserted
fishing village, and bade adieu to the navigation of the lake and river of Central Africa.

The few huts that existed in this spot were mere ruins. Clouds had portended rain, and down
it came, as it usually did once in every twenty-four hours. However, that passed away by the
next morning, and the day broke discovering us about as wet and wretched as we were accustomed
to be. I now started off four of my men with the boatmen and the interpreter Bacheeta to the
nearest village, to inquire whether our guide Rabonga had arrived with our riding oxen, as
our future travelling was to be on land, and the limit of our navigation must have been well
known to him. After some hours the people returned, minus the boatmen, with a message from
the headman of a village they had visited, that the oxen were there, but not the guide Rabonga,
who had remained at Magungo, but that the animals should be brought to us that evening, together
with porters to convey the luggage. In the evening a number of people arrived, bringing some
plantain cider and plantains as a present from the headman; and promising that, upon the following
morning, we should be conducted to his village.

The next day we started, but not until the afternoon, as we had to await the arrival of the
headman, who was to escort us. Our oxen were brought, and if we looked wretched, the animals
were a match. It poured with rain. Upon arrival at the summit we were in precisely the same
parklike land that characterises Chopi and Unyoro, but the grass was about seven feet high;
and from the constant rain, and the extreme fertility of the soil, the country was choked with
vegetation. We were now above the Murchison Falls, and we heard the roaring of the water beneath
us to our left. We continued our route parallel to the river above the Falls, steering east;
and a little before evening we arrived at a small village belonging to the headman who accompanied
us. I was chilled and wet; my wife had fortunately been carried on her litter, which was protected
by a hide roofing. Feverish and exhausted, I procured from the natives some good acid plums,
and refreshed by these I was able to boil my thermometer and take the altitude. The rock was
entirely of grey granite, from the clefts of which beautiful forest trees grew so thickly that
the entire island was in shade. In the middle of this secluded spot was a considerable village,
thickly inhabited, as the population of the mainland had fled from their dwellings and had
taken refuge upon the numerous river islands, as the war was raging between Rionga and Kamrasi.
A succession of islands from the east of Patooan continued to within a march of Karuma Falls.
These were in the possession of Rionga, and a still more powerful chief and ally, Fowooka,
who were the deadly enemies of Kamrasi.

It now appeared that after my departure from M'rooli to search for the lake, Ibrahim had been
instructed by Kamrasi to accompany his army, and attack Fowooka. This had been effected, but
the attack had been confined to a bombardment by musketry from the high cliffs of the river
upon the people confined upon one of the islands. A number of men had been killed, and Ibrahim
had returned to Gondokoro with a quantity of ivory and porters supplied by Kamrasi; but he
had left ten of his armed men as hostages with the king, to act as his guard until he should
return on the following year to Unyoro. Ibrahim and his strong party having quitted the country,
Fowooka had invaded the mainland of Chopi, and had burnt and destroyed all the villages, and
killed many people, including a powerful chief of Kamrasi's, the father of the headman of the
island of Patooan where we were now staying. Accordingly the fugitives from the destroyed villages
had taken refuge upon the island of Patooan, and others of the same character. The headman
informed us that it would be impossible to proceed along the bank of the river to Karuma, as
that entire line of country was in possession of the enemy. This was sufficient to assure me
that I should not procure porters.

There was no end to the difficulties and trouble in this horrible country. My exploration was
completed, as it was by no means necessary to continue the route from Patooan to Karuma. I
had followed the Somerset from its junction with the lake at Magungo to this point; here it
was a beautiful river, precisely similar in character to the point at which I had left it at
Karuma: we were now within thirty miles of that place, and about eighteen miles from the point
opposite Rionga's island, where we had first hit upon the river on our arrival from the north.
The direction was perfectly in accordance with my observations at Karuma, and at Magungo, the
Somerset running from east to west. The river was about 180 to 200 yards in width, but much
obstructed with rocks and islands; the stream ran at about four miles per hour, and the rapids
and falls were so numerous that the roar of water had been continuous throughout our march
from Murchison Falls. By observations of Casella's thermometer I made the altitude of the river
level at the island of Patooan 3,195 feet; thus from this point to the level of the Albert
lake at Magungo there was a fall of 475 feet--this difference being included between Patooan
and the foot of Murchison Falls: the latter, being at the lowest estimate 120 feet, left 355
feet to be accounted for between Patooan and the top of the falls. As the ledges of rock throughout
the course of the river formed a series of steps, this was a natural difference in altitude
that suggested the correctness of the observations.

At the river level below Karuma Falls I had measured the altitude at 3,996 feet above the sea
level. Thus, there was a fall from that point to Patooan of 801 feet, and a total of 1,276
feet in the descent of the river from Karuma to the Albert N'yanza. These measurements, most
carefully taken, corroborated the opinion suggested by the natural appearance of the river,
which was a mere succession of cataracts throughout its westerly course from Karuma.

To me these observations were more than usually interesting, as when I had met my friend Speke
at Gondokoro he was much perplexed concerning the extraordinary difference in his observation
between the altitude of the river level at Karuma Falls, lat. 2 degrees 15', and at Gebel Kookoo
in the Madi country, lat. 3 degrees 34', the point at which he subsequently met the river.
He KNEW that both rivers were the Nile, as he bad been told this by the natives; the one, before
it had joined the Albert lake--the other, after its exit; but he had been told that the river
was NAVIGABLE from Gebel Kookoo, lat. 3 degrees 34', straight up to the junction of the lake;
thus, there could be no great difference in altitude between the lake and the Nile where he
met it, in lat. 3 degrees 34'. Nevertheless, he found so enormous a difference in his observations
between the river at Karuma and at Gebel Kookoo, that he concluded there must be a fall between
Karuma and the Albert lake of at least 1,000 feet; by careful measurements I proved the closeness
of his reasoning and observation, by finding a fall of only 275 feet more than he had anticipated.
From Karuma to the Albert lake (although unvisited by Speke), he had marked upon his map, "river
falls 1,000 feet;" by actual measurement I proved it to be 1,275 feet.

The altitudes measured by me have been examined, and the thermometer that I used had been tested
at Kew, and its errors corrected since my return to England; thus all altitudes observed with
that thermometer should be correct, as the results, after correction by Mr. Dunkin, of the
Greenwich Royal Observatory, are those now quoted. It will therefore be interesting to compare
the observations taken at the various points on the Nile and Albert lake in the countries of
Unyoro and Chopi--the correctness of which relatively will be seen by comparison:--

1861.
    Jan. 22. Rionga's island, 80 feet above the Nile  . . .    3,864
    Jan. 25. Karuma, below the falls, river level Atadaj. .    3,996
    Jan. 31. South of Karuma, river level on road to M'rooli   4,056

1864.
    Feb. 21. M'rooli lat. 1 degree 38' river level . . . . . . 4,061Ft.
    Mar. 14. Albert N'yanza, lake level  . . . . . . . . . . . 2,720Ft.
    April 7. Island of Patooan (Shooa Moru) river level. . . . 3,195Ft.

By these observations it will be seen that from M'rooli, in lat. 1 degree 38' to Karuma in
lat. 2 degree 15', there is a fall of sixty- five feet; say MINUS five feet, for the Karuma
Falls equals sixty feet fall in 37' of latitude; or allowing for the great bend of the river,
twenty miles of extra course, it will be equal to about sixty statute miles of actual river
from M'rooli to Atada or Karuma Falls, showing a fall or one foot per mile. From M'rooli to
the head of the Karuma Falls the river is navigable; thus the observations of altitudes showing
a fall of one foot per mile must be extremely accurate.

The next observations to be compared are those from Karuma Falls throughout the westerly course
of the river to the Albert lake:--

    River level below Karuma Falls . . . . . . . . 3,996 feet
    Rionga's island 3,864--80 feet cliff . . . . . 3,784 
        = 212 fall. to the west.
    River level at island of Patooan (Shooa Moru). 3,195 
        = 589 fall. from Rionga's island.
    Level of Albert lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,720 
        = 475 fall. from Patooan to lake.
    From Karuma  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,276 fall.

These observations were extremely satisfactory, and showed that the thermometer (Casella's)
behaved well at every boiling, as there was no confusion of altitudes, but each observation
corroborated the preceding. The latitude of the island of Patooan by observation was 2 degrees
16': we were thus due west of Magungo, and east of Karuma Falls.

CHAPTER XIII.

TREACHEROUS DESIGNS OF THE NATIVES.

We had now given up all hope of Gondokoro, and were perfectly resigned to our fate; this, we
felt sure, was to be buried in Chopi.

On the following morning we were carried in our litters by a number of men. The ox had been
killed, the whole party had revelled in good food, and a supply sufficient for the journey
was taken by my men.

Without inflicting the tedium of the journey upon the reader, it will be sufficient to say
that the country was the same as usual, being a vast park overgrown with immense grass. Every
day the porters bolted, and we were left deserted at the charred ruins of various villages
that had been plundered by Fowooka's people. It poured with rain; there was no cover, as all
the huts had been burnt, and we were stricken with severe fever daily. However, after five
days of absurdly slow marching, the roar of the rapids being distinctly audible at night, we
arrived one morning at a deserted camp of about 3,000 huts, which were just being ignited by
several natives. This had been Kamrasi's headquarters, which he had quitted, and according
to native custom it was to be destroyed by fire. It was reported that the king had removed
to another position within an hour's march, and that he had constructed a new camp. Although
throughout the journey from Shooa Moru the country had been excessively wild and uncultivated,
this neighbourhood was a mass of extensive plantain groves and burnt villages, but every plantain
tree had been cut through the middle and recklessly destroyed. This destruction had been perpetrated
by Fowooka's people, who had invaded the country, but had retreated on the advance of Kamrasi's
army.

On entering the village I found a hut prepared for me by the orders of my vakeel: it was very
small, and I immediately ordered a fence and courtyard to be constructed. There were great
numbers of natives, and a crowd of noisy fellows pressed around us that were only dispersed
by a liberal allowance of the stick, well laid on by the Turks, who were not quite so mild
in their ways as my people. A fat ox was immediately slaughtered by the vakeel commanding the
Turks' party, and a great feast was soon in preparation, as our people were determined to fraternize.

I now remembered, that the woman Bacheeta had on several occasions during the journey told
us that the Kamrasi we had seen was not the true M'Kamma Kamrasi; but at the time I had paid
little attention to her, as she was constantly grumbling, and I imagined that this was merely
said in ill temper, referring to her murdered master Sali as the rightful king.

I called the vakeel of the Turks, Eddrees: he said, that he also had heard long since that
M'Gambi was not Kamrasi as we had all supposed, but that he had never seen the great king,
as M'Gambi had always acted as viceroy; he confirmed the accounts I had just received, that
the real Kamrasi was not far from this village, the name of which was "Kisoona." I concluded
by saying, that I should not go to see Kamrasi, but that he should come to visit me. M'Gambi
promised to send a good cow on the following morning, as we had not tasted milk for some months,
and we were in great want of strengthening food. He took his leave, having received a small
present of minute beads of various colours.

I could not help wondering at the curious combination of pride and abject cowardice that had
been displayed by the redoubted Kamrasi ever since our first entrance to his territory. Speke
when at Gondokoro had told me how he had been kept waiting for fifteen days before the king
had condescended to see him. I now understood that this delay had been occasioned more by fear
than pride, and that, in his cowardice, the king fell back upon his dignity as an excuse for
absenting himself.

With the addition of the Turks' party we were now twenty-four armed men. Although they had
not seen the real king Kamrasi, they had been well treated since Ibrahim's departure, having
received each a present of a young slave girl as a wife, while, as a distinguishing mark of
royal favour, the vakeel Eddrees had received two wives instead of one; they had also received
regular supplies of flour and beef--the latter in the shape of a fat ox presented every seventh
day, together with a liberal supply of plantain cider.

AT HOME IN KISOONA.

IT appeared that Kisoona was to be headquarters until I should have an opportunity of quitting
the country for Shooa. Therefore I constructed a comfortable little hut surrounded by a courtyard
strongly fenced, in which I arranged a Rakooba, or open shed, in which to sit during the hottest
hours of the day.

My cow that I had received from Kamrasi gave plenty of milk, and every second day we were enabled
to make a small cheese about the size of a six-pound cannon-shot. The abundance of milk made
a rapid change in our appearance; and Kisoona, although a place of complete "ennui," was a
delightful change after the privations of the last four months. Every week the king sent me
an ox and a quantity of flour for myself and people, and the whole party grew fat. We used
the milk native fashion, never drinking it until curdled;--taken in this form it will agree
with the most delicate stomach, but if used fresh in large quantities it induces biliousness.
The young girls of thirteen and fourteen that are the wives of the king are not appreciated
unless extremely fat--they are subjected to a regular system of fattening in order to increase
their charms; thus at an early age they are compelled to drink daily about a gallon of curded
milk, the swallowing of which is frequently enforced by the whip; the result is extreme obesity.
In hot climates milk will curdle in two or three hours if placed in a vessel that has previously
contained sour milk. When curdled it should be well beaten together until it assumes the appearance
of cream; in this state, if seasoned with a little salt, it is most nourishing and easy of
digestion. The Arabs invariably use it in this manner, and improve it by the addition of red
pepper. The natives of Unyoro will not eat red pepper, as they believe that men and women become
barren by its use.

Although the fever had so completely taken possession of me that I was subject to an attack
almost daily, the milk fattened me extremely, and kept up my strength, which otherwise must
have failed. The change from starvation to good food produced a marvellous effect. Curious
as it may appear, although we were in a land of plantains, the ripe fruit was in the greatest
scarcity. The natives invariably eat them unripe, the green fruit when boiled being a fair
substitute for potatoes--the ripe plantains were used for brewing plantain cider, but they
were never eaten. The method of cider-making was simple. The fruit was buried in a deep hole
and covered with straw and earth;--at the expiration of about eight days the green plantains
thus interred had become ripe;--they were then peeled and pulped within a large wooden trough
resembling a canoe; this was filled with water, and the pulp being well mashed and stirred,
it was left to ferment for two days, after which time it was fit to drink.

Throughout the country of Unyoro, plantains in various forms were the staple article of food,
upon which the inhabitants placed more dependence than upon all other crops. The green plantains
were not only used as potatoes, but when peeled they were cut in thin slices and dried in the
sun until crisp; in this state they were stored in the granaries, and when required for use
they were boiled into a pulp and made into a most palatable soup or stew. Flour of plantains
was remarkably good; this was made by grinding the fruit when dried as described; it was then,
as usual with all other articles in that country, most beautifully packed in long narrow parcels,
either formed of plantain bark or of the white interior of rushes worked into mats. This bark
served as brown paper, but had the advantage of being waterproof. The fibre of the plantain
formed both thread and cord, thus the principal requirements of the natives were supplied by
this most useful tree. The natives were exceedingly clever in working braid from the plantain
fibre, which was of so fine a texture that it had the appearance of a hair chain; nor could
the difference be detected without a close examination. Small bags netted with the same twine
were most delicate, and in all that was produced in Unyoro there was a remarkably good taste
displayed in the manufacture.

The beads most valued were the white opal, the red porcelain, and the minute varieties generally
used for working on screens in England; these small beads [These were given to me by Speke
at Gondokoro] of various colours were much esteemed, and were worked into pretty ornaments,
about the shape of a walnut, to be worn suspended from the neck. I had a small quantity of
the latter variety that I presented to Kamrasi, who prized them as we should value precious stones.

Not only were the natives clever generally in their ideas, but they were exceedingly cunning
in their bargains. Every morning, shortly after sunrise, men might be heard crying their wares
throughout the camp-- such as, "Tobacco, tobacco; two packets going for either beads or simbis!"
(cowrie-shells). "Milk to sell for beads or salt!" "Salt to exchange for lance-heads!" "Coffee,
coffee, going cheap for red beads!" "Butter for five jenettos (red beads) [These were given
to me by Speke at Gondokoro] a lump!"

The butter was invariably packed in a plantain leaf, but frequently the package was plastered
with cow dung and clay, which, when dry, formed a hard coating, and protected it from the air;
this gave it a bad flavour, and we returned it to the dealer as useless. A short time after,
he returned with fresh butter in a perfectly new green leaf, and we were requested to taste
it. Being about the size and shape of a cocoa-nut, and wrapped carefully in a leaf with only
the point exposed, I of course tasted from that portion, and approving the flavour, the purchase
was completed. We were fairly cheated, as the butter dealer had packed the old rejected butter
in a fresh leaf, and had placed a small piece of sweet butter on the top as a tasting point.
They constantly attempted this trick.

As retailers they took extraordinary pains to divide everything into minimum packets, which
they sold for a few beads, always declaring that they had only one packet to dispose of, but
immediately producing another when that was sold. This method of dealing was exceedingly troublesome,
as it was difficult to obtain supplies in any quantity. My only resource was to send Saat to
market daily to purchase all he could find, and he usually returned after some hours' absence
with a basket containing coffee, tobacco, and butter.

We were comfortably settled at Kisoona, and the luxury of coffee after so long an abstinence
was a perfect blessing. Nevertheless, in spite of good food, I was a martyr to fever, which
attacked me daily at about 2 P.M. and continued until sunset. Being without quinine I tried
vapour baths, and by the recommendation of one of the Turks I pounded and boiled a quantity
of the leaves of the castor-oil plant in a large pot containing about four gallons: this plant
was in great abundance. Every morning I arranged a bath by sitting in a blanket, thus forming
a kind of tent, with the pot of boiling water beneath my stool. Half an hour passed in this
intense heat produced a most profuse perspiration, and from the commencement of the vapour
system the attacks of fever moderated both in violence and frequency. In about a fortnight,
the complaint had so much abated that my spirits rose in equal proportion, and, although weak,
I had no mortal fear of my old enemy.

The king, Kamrasi, had supplied me with provisions, but I was troubled daily by messengers
who requested me to appear before him to make arrangements for the proposed attack upon Rionga
and Fowooka. My excuse for non-attendance was my weak state; but Kamrasi determined not to
be evaded, and one day his headman Quonga announced that the king would pay me a visit on the
following morning. Although I had but little remaining from my stock of baggage except the
guns, ammunition, and astronomical instruments, I was obliged to hide everything underneath
the beds, lest the avaricious eyes of Kamrasi should detect a "want." True to his appointment,
he appeared with numerous attendants, and was ushered into my little hut. I had a very rude
but serviceable armchair that one of my men had constructed; in this the king was invited to
sit. Hardly was he seated, when he leant back, stretched out his legs, and making some remark
to his attendants concerning his personal comfort, he asked for the chair as a present. I promised
to have one made for him immediately. This being arranged, he surveyed the barren little hut,
vainly endeavouring to fix his eyes upon something that he could demand; but so fruitless was
his search, that he laughingly turned to his people and said, "How was it that they wanted
so many porters, if they had nothing to carry?" My interpreter explained, that many things
had been spoiled during the storms on the lake, and had been left behind; that our provisions
had long since been consumed, and that our clothes were worn out--thus we had nothing left
but a few beads. "New varieties, no doubt," he replied; "give me all that you have of the small
blue and the large red!" We had carefully hidden the main stock, and a few had been arranged
in bags to be produced as the occasion might require; these were now unpacked by the boy Saat
and laid before the king. I told him to make his choice, which he did precisely as I had anticipated,
by making presents to his surrounding friends out of my stock, and monopolizing the remainder
for his share: the division of the portions among his people was a modest way of taking the
whole, as he would immediately demand their return upon quitting my hut. No sooner were the
beads secured than he repeated the original demand for my watch and the No. 24 double rifle;
these I resolutely refused. He then requested permission to see the contents of a few of the
baskets and bags that formed our worn-out luggage. There was nothing that took his fancy except
needles, thread, lancets, medicines, and a small tooth-comb; the latter interested him exceedingly,
as I explained that the object of the Turks in collecting ivory was to sell it to Europeans
who manufactured it into many articles, among which were small tooth-combs such as he then
examined. He could not understand how the teeth could be so finely cut. Upon the use of the
comb being explained, he immediately attempted to practise upon his woolly head; failing in
the operation, he adapted the instrument to a different purpose, and commenced scratching beneath
the wool most vigorously: the effect being satisfactory, he at once demanded the comb, which
was handed to each of the surrounding chiefs, all of whom had a trial of its properties, and,
every head having been scratched, it was returned to the king, who handed it to Quonga, the
headman that received his presents. So complete was the success of the comb that he proposed
to send me one of the largest elephant's tusks, which I was to take to England and cut into
as many small tooth-combs as it would produce for himself and his chiefs.

The lancets were next admired, and were declared to be admirably adapted for paring his nails--they
were therefore presented to him. Then came the investigation of the medicine chest, and every
bottle was applied to his nose, and a small quantity of the contents was requested. On the
properties of tartar-emetic being explained, he proposed to swallow a dose immediately, as
he had been suffering from headache, but as he was some distance from home I advised him to
postpone the dose until his return; I accordingly made up about a dozen powders, one of which
(three grains) he was to take that evening.

The concave mirror, our last looking-glass, was then discovered; the distortion of face it
produced was a great amusement, and after it had been repeatedly handed round, it was added
to his presents. More gunpowder was demanded, and a pound canister and a box of caps were presented
to him, but I positively refused the desired bullets.

To change the conversation, I inquired whether he or any of his people knew from whence their
race originated, as their language and appearance were totally different to the tribes that
I had visited front the north. He told me that he knew his grandfather, whose name was Cherrybambi,
but that he knew nothing of the history of the country, except that it had formerly been a
very extensive kingdom, and that Uganda and Utumbi had been comprised in the country of Kitwara
with Unyoro and Chopi.

The kingdom of Kitwara extended from the frontier of Karagwe to the Victoria Nile at Magungo,
and Karuma, bounded on all sides but the south by that river and the Victoria and the Albert
lakes; the latter lake forming the western frontier. During the reign of Cherrybambi, the province
of Utumbi revolted, and not only became independent, but drove Cherrybambi from Uganda across
the Kafoor river to Unyoro. This revolt continued until Cherrybambi's death, when the father
of M'tese (the present king of Uganda), who was a native of Utumbi, attacked and conquered
Uganda and became king. From that time there has been continual war between Uganda and Unyoro;
or, as Kamrasi calls his kingdom, Kitwara, that being the ancient name: to the present day,
M'tese, the king of Uganda, is one of his greatest enemies. It was in vain that I attempted
to trace his descent from the Gallas; both upon this and other occasions he and his people
denied all knowledge of their ancient history.

He informed me that Chopi had also revolted after the death of Cherrybambi, and that he had
reconquered it only ten or twelve years ago, but that even now the natives were not to be trusted,
as many had leagued with Fowooka and Rionga, whose desire was to annex Chopi and to form a
separate kingdom: these chiefs had possession of the river islands, which strongholds it was
impossible to attack without guns, as the rapids were so dangerous that canoes could only approach
by a certain passage.

Kamrasi expressed his determination to kill both of the refractory chiefs, as he would have
no rest during their lives; he disclaimed all relationship with Rionga, who had been represented
to Speke as his brother, and he concluded by requesting me to assist him in an attack upon
the river islands, promising that if I should kill Fowooka and Rionga he would give me a large
portion of his territory.

He suggested that I should stand upon a high cliff that commanded Fowooka's island; from that
point I could pick off not only the chief, but all his people, by firing steadily with the
little double 24 rifle; he continued even farther, that if I were too ill to go myself, I should
LEND him my little Fletcher 24 rifle, give him my men to assist his army, and he would pick
off Rionga himself from the cliff above the river: this was his mild way of securing the rifle
which he had coveted ever since my arrival in his country. I told him plainly that I could
not mix myself up with his quarrels; that I travelled with only one object, of doing good,
and that I would harm no one unless in self-defence, therefore I could not be the aggressor;
but that should Fowooka and Rionga attack his position I should be most happy to lend him my
aid to repel them. Far from appreciating my ideas of fair play, he immediately rose from his
chair, and without taking leave he walked out of the hut, attended by his people.

The next morning I heard that he had considered himself poisoned by the tarter-emetic but that
he was now well.

From that day I received no supplies for myself or my people, as the king was affronted. A
week passed away, and I was obliged to purchase meat and flour from Eddrees, the lieutenant
who commanded the Turks' party of nine men. I gave this man a double-barrelled gun, and he
behaved well.

One day I was lying upon my bed with a fit of ague, when it was reported that four men had
arrived from M'tese, the king of Uganda, who wished to see me. Unfortunately my vakeel delayed
the men for so long that they departed, promising to return again, having obtained from my
people all information concerning me: these were spies from the king of Uganda, whose object
at that time was unknown to us.

The weeks passed slowly at Kisoona, as there was a tedious monotony in the lack of incident;--every
day was a repetition of the preceding. My time was passed in keeping a regular journal; mapping;
and in writing letters to friends in England, although there was no communication. This task
afforded the greatest pleasure, as I could thus converse in imagination with those far away.
The thought frequently occurred to me that they might no longer exist, and that the separation
of years might be the parting forever; nevertheless there was a melancholy satisfaction at
thus blankly corresponding with those whom I had loved in former years. Thus the time slowly
ebbed away; the maps were perfected; information that I had received was confirmed by the repeated
examination of natives; and a few little black children who were allowed to run about our courtyard
like so many puppies afforded a study of the African savage in embryo. This monotony was shortly
disturbed.

At about 9 P.M. one night we were suddenly disturbed by a tremendous din --hundreds of nogaras
were beating, horns blowing, and natives screaming in all directions. I immediately jumped
out of bed, and buckling on my belt I took my rifle and left the hut. The village was alive
with people all dressed for war, and bearded with cows' tails, dancing and rushing about with
shields and spears, attacking imaginary enemies. Bacheeta informed me that Fowooka's people
had crossed the Nile and were within three hours' march of Kisoona, accompanied by A HUNDRED
AND FIFTY of Debono's trading party, the same that had formerly attacked Kamrasi in the preceding
year in company with Rionga's people. It was reported, that having crossed the Nile they were
marching direct on Kisoona, with the intention of attacking the country and of killing Kamrasi.
M'Gambi, the brother of Kamrasi, whose hut was only twenty yards distant, immediately came
to me with the news: he was in a state of great alarm, and was determined to run off to the
king immediately to recommend his flight. After some time I succeeded in convincing him that
this was unnecessary, and that I might be of great service in this dilemma if Kamrasi would
come personally to me early on the following morning.

The sun had just risen, when the king unceremoniously marched into my hut;--he was no longer
the dignified monarch of Kitwara clothed in a beautiful mantle of fine skins, but he wore nothing
but a short kilt of blue baize that Speke had given him, and a scarf thrown across his shoulders.
He was dreadfully alarmed, and could hardly be persuaded to leave his weapons outside the door,
according to the custom of the country--these were three lances and a double-barrelled rifle
that had been given him by Speke. I was much amused at his trepidation, and observing the curious
change in his costume, I complimented him upon the practical cut of his dress, that was better
adapted for fighting than the long and cumbrous mantle. "FIGHTING!" he exclaimed, with the
horror of "Bob Acres," "I am not going to fight! I have dressed lightly to be able to run quickly.
I mean to run away! Who can fight against guns? Those people have one hundred and fifty guns;
you must run with me; we can do nothing against them; you have only thirteen men; Eddrees has
only ten; what can twenty-three do against A HUNDRED AND FIFTY? Pack up your things and run;
we must be off into the high grass and hide at once; the enemy is expected every moment!"

I never saw a man in such a deplorable state of abject fright, and I could not help laughing
aloud at the miserable coward who represented a kingdom. Calling my headman, I ordered him
to hoist the English ensign on my tall flagstaff in the courtyard. In a few moments the old
flag was waving in a brisk breeze and floating over my little hut. There is something that
warms the heart in the sight of the Union Jack when thousands of miles away from the old country.
I now explained to Kamrasi that both he and his country were under the protection of that flag,
which was the emblem of England; and that so long as he trusted to me, although I had refused
to join him in attacking Fowooka, he should see that I was his true ally, as I would defend
him against all attacks. I told him to send a large quantity of supplies into my camp, and
to procure guides immediately, as I should send some of my men without delay to the enemy's
camp with a message to the vakeel of Debono's party. Slightly reassured by this arrangement,
he called Quonga, and ordered him to procure two of his chiefs to accompany my men. The best
of his men, Cassave, appeared immediately;--this was a famous fellow, who had always been civil
and anxious to do his duty both to his master and to me. I summoned Eddrees, and ordered him
to send four of his men with an equal number of mine to the camp of Fowooka to make a report
of the invading force, and to see whether it was true that Debono's people were arrived as
invaders. In half an hour from the receipt of my order, the party started;--eight well-armed
men accompanied by about twenty natives of Kamrasi's with two days' provisions. Kisoona was
about ten miles from the Victoria Nile.

At about 5 P.M. on the following day my men returned, accompanied by ten men and a choush,
or sergeant, of Debono's party;--they had determined to prove whether I was actually in the
country, as they had received a report some months ago that both my wife and I were dead; they
imagined that the men that I had sent to their camp were those of the rival party belonging
to Ibrahim, who had wished to drive them out of Kamrasi's country by using my name. However,
they were now undeceived, as the first object that met their view was the English flag on the
high flagstaff, and they were shortly led into my courtyard, where they were introduced to
me in person. They sat in a half-circle around me.

Assuming great authority, I asked them how they could presume to attack a country under the
protection of the British flag? I informed them that Unyoro belonged to me by right of discovery,
and that I had given Ibrahim the exclusive right to the produce of that country, on the condition
that he should do nothing contrary to the will of the reigning king, Kamrasi; that Ibrahim
had behaved well; that I had been guided to the lake and had returned, and that we were now
actually fed by the king; and we were suddenly invaded by Turkish subjects in connexion with
a hostile tribe, who thus insulted the English flag. I explained to them that I should not
only resist any attack that might be made upon Kamrasi, but that I should report the whole
affair to the Turkish authorities upon my return to Khartoum; and that, should a shot be fired
or a slave be stolen in Kamrasi's country, the leader of their party, Mahommed Wat-el-Mek,
would be hanged.

They replied that they were not aware that I was in the country; that they were allies of Fowooka,
Rionga, and Owine, the three hostile chiefs; that they had received both ivory and slaves from
them on condition that they should kill Kamrasi; and that, according to the custom of the White
Nile trade, they had agreed to these conditions. They complained that it was very hard upon
them to march six days through an uninhabited wilderness between their station at Faloro and
Fowooka's islands and to return empty handed. In reply I told them, that they should carry
a letter from me to their vakeel Mahommed, in which I should give him twelve hours from the
receipt of my order to recross the river with his entire party and their allies and quit Kamrasi's
country.

They demurred to this alternative: but I shortly settled their objections, by ordering my vakeel
to write the necessary letter, and desiring them to start before sunrise on the following morning.
Kamrasi had been suspicious that I had sent for Mahommed's party to invade him because he had
kept me starving at Shooa Moru instead of forwarding me to Shooa as he had promised. This suspicion
placed me in an awkward position; I therefore called M'Gambi (his brother) in presence of the
Turks, and explained the whole affair face to face, desiring Mahommed's people themselves to
explain to him that they would retire from the country simply because I commanded them to do
so, but that, had I not been there, they would have attacked him. This they repeated with a
very bad grace, boasting, at the completion, that, were it not for me, they would shoot M'Gambi
where he stood at that moment. The latter, fully aware of their good intentions, suddenly disappeared.
. . . My letter to Mahommed was delivered to Suleiman Choush, the leader of his party, and
I ordered a sheep to be killed for their supper. . . . At sunrise on the following morning
they all departed, accompanied by six of my men, who were to bring a reply to my letter. These
people had two donkeys, and just as they were starting, a crowd of natives made a rush to gather
a heap of dung that lay beneath the animals; a great fight and tussle took place for the possession
of this valuable medicine, in the midst of which the donkey lifted up his voice and brayed
so lustily that the crowd rushed away with more eagerness than they had exhibited on arriving,
alarmed at the savage voice of the unknown animal. It appeared that the dung of the donkey
rubbed upon the skin was supposed to be a cure for rheumatism, and that this rare specific
was brought from a distant country in the East where such animals existed.

CHAPTER XV.

KAMRASI BEGS FOR THE BRITISH FLAG.

Kamrasi, thus freed from his invaders, was almost stupefied with astonishment. He immediately
paid me a visit, and as he entered the courtyard he stopped to look at the flag that was gaily
fluttering above him, as though it were a talisman. He inquired "why the Turks were awed by
an apparent trifle." I explained that the flag was well known, and might be seen in every part
of the world; wherever it was hoisted it was respected, as he had just witnessed, even at so
great a distance from home and unsupported, as in Unyoro.

Seizing the opportunity, he demanded it, saying, "What shall I do when you leave my country
and take that with you? These Turks will surely return. Give me the flag, and they will be
afraid to attack me!" I was obliged to explain to him that "the respect for the British ensign
had not been gained by running away on the approach of danger, as he had proposed on the arrival
of the enemy, and that its honour could not be confided to any stranger." True to his uncontrollable
instinct of begging, he replied, "If you cannot give me the flag, give me at least that little
double-barrelled rifle that you do not require, as you are going home; then I can defend myself
should the Turks attack me."

I was excessively disgusted; he had just been saved by my intervention, and his manner of thanking
me was by begging most pertinaciously for the rifle that I had refused him on more than twenty
occasions. I requested him never to mention the subject again, as I would not part with it
under any circumstances. Just at this moment I heard an uproar outside my gate, and loud screams,
attended with heavy blows. A man was dragged past the entrance of the courtyard bound hand
and foot, and was immediately cudgelled to death by a crowd of natives. This operation continued
for some minutes, until his bones had been thoroughly broken up by the repeated blows of clubs.
The body was dragged to a grove of plantains, and was there left for the vultures, who in a
few minutes congregated around it.

It appeared that the offence thus summarily punished was the simple act of conversing with
some of the natives who had attended Mahommed's men from Fowooka's island to Kisoona: a conversation
with one of the enemy was considered high treason, and was punished with immediate death. In
such cases, where either Kamrasi or his brother M'Gambi determined upon the sudden execution
of a criminal, the signal was given by touching the condemned with the point of a lance: this
sign was the order that was immediately obeyed by the guards who were in attendance, and the
culprit was beaten to death upon the spot. Sometimes the condemned was touched by a stick instead
of a lance-point; this was a signal that he should be killed by the lance, and the sentence
was carried out by thrusting him through the body with numerous spears--thus the instrument
used to slay the criminal was always contrary to the sign.

On the day following this event, drums were beating, horns blowing, and crowds of natives were
singing and dancing in all directions; pots of plantain cider were distributed, and general
festivities proclaimed the joy of the people at the news that Mahommed's party had retreated
across the river, according to their agreement with me. My men had returned with a letter from
Mahommed, stating that he was neither afraid of Ibrahim's people nor of Kamrasi, but that as
I claimed the country, he must retire. Not only had he retired with his thwarted allies, but,
disgusted at the failure of his expedition, he had quarrelled with Fowooka, and had plundered
him of all his cattle, together with a number of slaves: this termination of the affair had
so delighted Kamrasi that he had ordered general rejoicings: he killed a number of oxen, and
distributed them among his people, and intoxicated half the country with presents of maroua,
or the plantain cider.

Altogether Mahommed, the vakeel of Debono, had behaved well to me in this affair, although
rather shabbily to his allies: he sent me six pieces of soap, and a few strings of blue beads
and jenettos (red glass beads) as a proof that he parted with no ill feeling. Hardly were the
Turks in retreat when Kamrasi determined to give the finishing stroke to his enemies. He sent
great quantities of ivory to the camp, and one evening his people laid about twenty tusks at
my door, begging me to count them. I told him to give the ivory to Ibrahim's men, as I required
nothing; but that should Ibrahim find a large quantity ready for him on his return to the country,
he would do anything that he might desire.

A few days later, whole lines of porters arrived, carrying enormous elephants' tusks to Eddrees,
the vakeel. Early the next morning, Kamrasi's entire army arrived laden with provisions, each
man carrying about 40 lbs. of flour in a package upon his head. The Turks' party of ten men
joined them, and I heard that an attack was meditated upon Fowooka.

A few days after the expedition had started, the Turks and about 1,000 natives returned. Kamrasi
was overjoyed; they had gained a complete victory, having entirely routed Fowooka, and not
only captured the islands and massacred the greater number of the inhabitants, but they had
captured all the wives of the rebel chiefs, together with a number of inferior slaves, and
a herd of goats that had fortunately escaped the search of Mahommed's retreating party. Fowooka
and Owine had escaped by crossing to the northern shore, but their power was irretrievably
ruined, their villages plundered and burned, and their women and children captured.

A number of old women had been taken in the general razzia; these could not walk sufficiently
fast to keep up with their victors during the return march, they had accordingly all been killed
on the road as being cumbersome: in every case they were killed by being beaten on the back
of the neck with a club. Such were the brutalities indulged in.

On the following morning I went to visit the captives; the women were sitting in an open shed,
apparently much dejected. I examined the hands of about fourteen, all of which were well shaped
and beautifully soft, proving that they were women of high degree who never worked laboriously:
they were for the most part remarkably good looking, of soft and pleasing expression, dark
brown complexion, fine noses, woolly hair, and good figures, precisely similar to the general
style of women in Chopi and Unyoro.

Among the captives was a woman with a most beautiful child, a boy about twelve months old;
all these were slaves, and the greater number were in a most pitiable state, being perfectly
unfit for labour, having been accustomed to luxury as the women of chiefs of high position.
Curiously enough, the woman Bacheeta, who had accompanied us to visit these unfortunate captives,
now recognised her former mistress, who was the wife of the murdered Sali; she had been captured
with the wives and daughters of Rionga. Bacheeta immediately fell on her knees and crept towards
her on all fours, precisely as the subjects of Kamrasi were accustomed to approach his throne.
Sali had held as high a position as Fowooka, and had been treacherously killed by Kamrasi at
M'rooli in the presence of Bacheeta. At that time peace had been established between Kamrasi
and the three great chiefs, who were invited to a conference at M'rooli with a treacherous
design on the part of the king. Hardly had they arrived, when Rionga was seized by Kamrasi's
orders, and confined in a circular but with high mud walls and no doorway; the prisoner was
hoisted up and lowered down through an aperture in the roof. He was condemned to be burnt alive
on the following morning for some imaginary offence, while Sali and Fowooka were to be either
pardoned or murdered, as circumstances might dictate. Sali was a great friend of Rionga, and
determined to rescue him; accordingly he plied the guards with drink, and engaged them in singing
throughout the night on one side of the prison, while his men burrowed like rabbits beneath
the wall on the opposite side, and rescued Rionga, who escaped.

Sali showed extreme folly in remaining at M'rooli, and Kamrasi, suspicious of his complicity,
immediately ordered him to be seized and cut to pieces: he was accordingly tied to a stake,
and tortured by having his limbs cut off piecemeal--the hands being first severed at the wrists,
and the arms at the elbow joints. Bacheeta was an eyewitness of this horrible act, and testified
to the courage of Sali, who, while under the torture, cried out to his friends in the crowd,
warning them to fly and save themselves, as he was a dead man, and they would share his fate
should they remain. Some escaped, including Fowooka, but many were massacred on the spot, and
the woman Bacheeta was captured by Kamrasi and subsequently sent by him to the Turks' camp
at Faloro, as already described. From that day unremitting warfare was carried on between Kamrasi
and the island chiefs; the climax was their defeat, and the capture of their women, through
the assistance of the Turks.

Kamrasi's delight at the victory knew no bounds; ivory poured into the camp, and a hut was
actually filled with elephants' tusks of the largest size. Eddrees, the leader of the Turks'
party, knowing that the victory was gained by the aid of his guns, refused to give up the captives
on the demand of the king, claiming them as prisoners belonging to Ibrahim, and declining any
arguments upon the matter until his master should arrive in the country. Kamrasi urged that,
although the guns had been of great service, no prisoners could have been captured without
the aid of his canoes, that had been brought by land, dragged all the way from Karuma by hundreds
of his people in readiness for the attack upon the islands.

As usual in all cases of dispute, I was to be referee. Kamrasi sent his factotum Cassave in
the night to my hut to confer with me without the Turks' knowledge; then came his brother,
M'Gambi, and at length, after being pestered daily by messengers, the great king arrived in
person. He said that Eddrees was excessively insolent, and had threatened to shoot him; that
he had insulted him when on his throne surrounded by his chiefs, and that, had he not been
introduced into the country by me, he would have killed him and his men on the spot.

I advised Kamrasi not to talk too big, as he had lately seen what only ten guns had effected
in the fight with Fowooka, and he might imagine the results that would occur should he even
hint at hostility, as the large parties of Ibrahim and the men of Mahommed Wat-el-Mek would
immediately unite and destroy both him and his country, and place his now beaten enemy Fowooka
upon HIS throne should a hair of a Turk's head be missing. The gallant Kamrasi turned almost
green at the bare suggestion of this possibility. I advised him not to quarrel about straws,
assuring him, that as I had become responsible for the behaviour of the Turks while in his
country, he need have no fear; but that, on the other hand, he must be both just and generous.
If he would give them a supply of ivory, he might always reckon upon them as valuable allies;
but if he attempted to quarrel, they would assuredly destroy his country after my departure.
Of course he requested me never to think of leaving him, but to take up my abode for life in
Kitwara, promising me all that I should require in addition to a large territory. I replied
that the climate did not agree with me, and that nothing would induce me to remain, but that,
as the boats would not arrive at Gondokoro for six months (until February), I might as well
reside with him as anywhere else. At the same time, I assured him that his professed friendship
for me was a delusion, as he only regarded me as a shield between him and danger. After a long
conversation, I succeeded in persuading him not to interfere in matters regarding prisoners
of war, and to look upon Eddrees only as a vakeel until Ibrahim should arrive. He left my hut
promising not to mention the affair again; but the next, day he sent Cassave to Eddrees, demanding
two of the prettiest women who were captives. In reply, Eddrees, who was an extremely hotheaded
fellow, went straight to Kamrasi, and spoke to him in a most insulting manner, refusing his
request. The king immediately rose from his seat and turned his back upon the offender. Off
rushed Eddrees, boiling with passion, to his camp, summoned his men well armed, and marched
straight towards the residence of Kamrasi to demand satisfaction for the affront.

Fortunately, my vakeel brought me the intelligence, and I sent after him, ordering his immediate
return, and declaring that no one should break the peace so long as I was in the country. In
about ten minutes, both he and his men slunk back ashamed, mutually accusing each other, as
is usual in cases of failure. This was an instance of the madness of these Turks in assuming
the offensive, when, in the event of a fight, defeat must have been certain. They were positively
without ammunition! having fired away all their cartridges except about five rounds for each
man in the attack upon Fowooka. Fortunately, this was unknown to Kamrasi. I had a large supply,
as my men were never permitted to fire a shot without my special permission.

The party of Turks were now completely in my power. I sent for Eddrees, and also for the king:
the latter had already heard from the natives of the approach of the armed Turks, and of my
interference. He refused to appear in person, but sent his brother M'Gambi, who was, as usual,
the cat's-paw. M'Gambi was highly offended, and declared that Kamrasi had forbidden Eddrees
ever to appear again in his presence. I insisted upon Eddrees apologizing, and it was resolved
that all future negotiations should be carried on through me alone.

I suggested that it would be advisable for all parties that a message should be sent without
delay to Ibrahim at Shooa, as it was highly necessary that he should be present, as I should
not continue responsible for the conduct of the Turks. When I arrived in Unyoro it was with
the intention of visiting the lake, and returning immediately. I had been delayed entirely
through Kamrasi's orders, and I could not be held responsible for Eddrees;--my agreement had
been to guarantee the conduct of the Turks under Ibrahim, who was the commander of the party.
Eddrees, who, being without ammunition, was now excessively humble and wished for reinforcements,
offered to send five men to Shooa, provided that Kamrasi would allow some natives to accompany
them. This did not suit the ideas of the suspicious M'Gambi, who suspected that he intended
to misrepresent Kamrasi's conduct to prejudice Ibrahim against him. Accordingly, he declined
his offer, but agreed to give porters and guides, should I wish to send any of my men with
a letter. This suited my views exactly; I longed to quit Kamrasi's country, as Kisoona was
a prison of high grass and inaction, and could I only return to Shooa, I could pass my time
pleasantly in a fine open country and healthy climate, with the advantage of being five days'
march nearer home than Unyoro. Accordingly, I instructed my vakeel to write a letter to Ibrahim,
calling him immediately to Kisoona, informing him that a large quantity of ivory was collected,
which, should Eddrees create a disturbance, would be lost. On the following morning, four of
my men started for Shooa, accompanied by a number of natives.

Kisoona relapsed into its former monotony-the war with Fowooka being over, the natives, free
from care, passed their time in singing and drinking; it was next to impossible to sleep at
night, as crowds of people all drunk were yelling in chorus, blowing horns and beating drums
from sunset until morning. The women took no part in this amusement, as it was the custom in
Unyoro for the men to enjoy themselves in laziness, while the women performed all the labour
of the fields. Thus they were fatigued, and glad to rest, while the men passed the night in
uproarious merriment. The usual style of singing was a rapid chant delivered as a solo, while
at intervals the crowd burst out in a deafening chorus together with the drums and horns; the
latter were formed of immense gourds which, growing in a peculiar shape, with long bottle necks,
were easily converted into musical (?) instruments. Every now and then a cry of fire in the
middle of the night enlivened the ennui of our existence; the huts were littered deep with
straw, and the inmates, intoxicated, frequently fell asleep with their huge pipes alight, which,
falling in the dry straw, at once occasioned a conflagration. In such cases the flames spread
from hut to hut with immense rapidity, and frequently four or five hundred huts in Kamrasi's
large camp were destroyed by fire, and rebuilt in a few days. I was anxious concerning my powder,
as, in the event of fire, the blaze of the straw hut was so instantaneous that nothing could
be saved: should my powder explode, I should be entirely defenceless. Accordingly, after a
conflagration in my neighbourhood, I insisted upon removing all huts within a circuit of thirty
yards of my dwelling: the natives demurring, I at once ordered my men to pull down the houses,
and thereby relieved myself from drunken and dangerous neighbours.

Although we had been regularly supplied with beef by the king, we now found it most difficult
to procure fowls; the war with Fowooka had occasioned the destruction of nearly all the poultry
in the neighbourhood of Kisoona, as Kamrasi and his kojoors (magicians) were occupied with
daily sacrifices, deducing prognostications of coming events from the appearances of the entrails
of the birds slain. The king was surrounded by sorcerers, both men and women; these people
were distinguished from others by witch-like chaplets of various dried roots worn upon the
head; some of them had dried lizards, crocodiles' teeth, lions' claws, minute tortoise-shells,
&c. added to their collection of charms. They could have subscribed to the witches' cauldron
of Macbeth:

   "Eye of newt and toe of frog,
    Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
    Adder's fork and blindworm's sting,
    Lizard's leg and owlet's wing,
    For a charm of powerful trouble,
    Like a hell-broth boil and bubble."

On the first appearance of these women, many of whom were old and haggard, I felt inclined
to repeat Banquo's question: "What are these, so withered and so wild in their attire, that
look not like the inhabitants o' the earth, and yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught that
man may question?"

In such witches and wizards Kamrasi and his people believed implicitly. Bacheeta, and also
my men, told me that when my wife was expected to die during the attack of coup de soleil,
the guide had procured a witch, who had killed a fowl to question it, "Whether she would recover
and reach the lake?" The fowl in its dying struggle protruded its tongue, which sign is considered
affirmative; after this reply the natives had no doubt of the result. These people, although
far superior to the tribes on the north of the Nile in general intelligence, had no idea of
a Supreme Being, nor any object of worship, their faith resting upon a simple belief in magic
like that of the natives of Madi and Obbo.

Some weeks passed without a reply from Shooa to the letter I had forwarded by my men, neither
had any news been received of their arrival; we had relapsed into the usual monotony of existence.
This was happily broken by a most important event.

On the 6th September, M'Gambi came to my hut in a state of great excitement, with the intelligence
that the M'was, the natives of Uganda, had invaded Kamrasi's country with a large army; that
they had already crossed the Kafoor river and had captured M'rooli, and that they were marching
through the country direct to Kisoona, with the intention of killing Kamrasi and of attacking
us, and annexing the country of Unyoro to M'tese's dominions. My force was reduced by four
men that I had sent to Shooa--thus we were a party of twenty guns, including the Turks, who
unfortunately had no ammunition.

There was no doubt about the truth of the intelligence; the natives seemed in great consternation,
as the M'was were far more powerful than Kamrasi's people, and every invasion from that country
had been attended with the total rout of the Unyoro forces. I told M'Gambi that messengers
must be sent off at once to Shooa with a letter that I would write to Ibrahim, summoning him
immediately to Karuma with a force of 100 men; at the same time I suggested that we should
leave Kisoona and march with Kamrasi's army direct to Karuma, there to establish a fortified
camp to command the passage of the river, and to secure a number of canoes to provide a passage
for Ibrahim's people whenever they could effect a junction:--otherwise, the M'was might destroy
the boats and cut off the Turks on their arrival at the ferry. Kisoona was an exceedingly disadvantageous
situation, as it was a mere forest of trees and tangled herbage ten or twelve feet high, in
which the enemy could approach us unperceived, secure from our guns. M'Gambi quite approved
of my advice, and hurried off to the king, who, as usual in cases of necessity, came to me
without delay. He was very excited, and said that messengers arrived four or five times a day,
bringing reports of every movement of the enemy, who were advancing rapidly in three divisions,
one by the route direct from M'rooli to Karuma that I had followed on my arrival at Atada,
another direct to Kisoona, and a third between these two parallels, so as to cut off his retreat
to an island in the Nile, where he had formerly taken refuge when his country was invaded by
the same people. I begged him not to think of retiring to the island, but to take my advice
and fight it out, in which case I should be happy to assist him, as I was his guest, and I
had a perfect right to repel any aggression.

Accordingly I drew a plan of operations, showing how a camp could be formed on the cliff above
Karuma Falls, having two sides protected by the river, while a kraal could be formed in the
vicinity completely commanded by our guns, where his cattle would remain in perfect security.
He listened with wandering eyes to all military arrangements, and concluded by abandoning all
idea of resistance, but resolutely adhering to his plan of flight to the island that had protected
him on a former occasion.

We could only agree upon two points, the evacuation of Kisoona as untenable, and the necessity
of despatching a summons to Ibrahim immediately. The latter decision was acted upon that instant,
and runners were despatched with a letter to Shooa. Kamrasi decided to wait until the next
morning for reports from expected messengers on the movements of the enemy, otherwise he might
run into the very jaws of the danger he wished to avoid; and he promised to send porters to
carry us and our effects, should it be necessary to march to Karuma: with this understanding,
he departed. Bacheeta now assured me that the M'was were so dreaded by the Unyoro people that
nothing would induce them to fight; therefore I must not depend upon Kamrasi in any way, but
must make independent arrangements: she informed me, that the invasion was caused by accounts
given to M'tese by Goobo Goolah, one of Speke's deserters, who had run away from Kamrasi shortly
after our arrival in the country, and had reported to M'tese, the king of Uganda, that we were
on our way to pay him a visit with many valuable presents, but that Kamrasi had prevented us
from proceeding, in order to monopolise the merchandise. Enraged at this act of his great enemy
Kamrasi, he had sent spies to corroborate the testimony of Goobo Goolah (these were the four
men who had appeared some weeks ago), which being confirmed, he had sent an army to destroy
both Kamrasi and his country, and to capture us and lead us to his capital. This was the explanation
of the affair given by Bacheeta, who, with a woman's curiosity and tact, picked up information
in the camps almost as correctly as a Times correspondent.

This was very enjoyable--the monotony of our existence had been unbearable, and here was an
invigorating little difficulty with just sufficient piquancy to excite our spirits. My men
were so thoroughly drilled and accustomed to complete obedience and dependence upon my guidance,
that they had quite changed their characters. I called Eddrees, gave him ten rounds of ball
cartridge for each of his men, and told him to keep with my party should we be obliged to march:
he immediately called a number of natives and concealed all his ivory in the jungle. At about
9 P.M. the camp was in an uproar; suddenly drums beat in all quarters, in reply to nogaras
that sounded the alarm in Kamrasi's camp; horns bellowed; men and women yelled; huts were set
on fire; and in the blaze of light hundreds of natives, all armed and dressed for war, rushed
frantically about, as usual upon such occasions, gesticulating, and engaging in mock fight
with each other, as though full of valour and boiling over with a desire to meet the enemy.
Bacheeta, who was a sworn enemy to Kamrasi, was delighted at his approaching discomfiture.
As some of the most desperate looking warriors, dressed with horns upon their heads, rushed
up to us brandishing their spears, she shouted in derision, "Dance away, my boys! Now's your
time when the enemy is far away; but if you see a M'was as big as the boy Saat, you will run
as fast as your legs can carry you."

The M'was were reported to be so close to Kisoona that their nogaras had been heard from Kamrasi's
position, therefore we were to be ready to march for Atada before daybreak on the following
morning. There was little sleep that night, as all the luggage had to be packed in readiness
for the early start. Cassave, who could always be depended upon, arrived at my hut, and told
me that messengers had reported that the M'was had swept everything before them, having captured
all the women and cattle of the country and killed a great number of people; that they had
seen the light of burning villages from Kamrasi's camp, and that it was doubtful whether the
route was open to Atada. I suggested that men should be sent on in advance, to report if the
path were occupied: this was immediately done.

Before daybreak on the following morning an immense volume of light with dense clouds of smoke
in the direction of Kamrasi's position showed that his camp had been fired, according to custom,
and that his retreat had commenced;--thousands of grass huts were in flames, and I could not
help being annoyed at the folly of these natives at thus giving the enemy notice of their retreat,
by a signal that could be seen at many miles' distance, when success depended upon rapid and
secret movements.

Shortly after these signs of the march, crowds of women, men, cows, goats, and luggage appeared,
advancing in single file through a grove of plantains and passing within twenty yards of us
in an endless string. It was pouring with rain, and women carrying their children were slipping
along the muddy path, while throngs of armed men and porters pushed rudely by, until at last
the gallant Kamrasi himself appeared with a great number of women (his wives), several of whom
were carried on litters, being too fat to walk. He took no notice of me as he passed by. M'Gambi
was standing by me, and he explained that we were to close the rear, Kamrasi having concluded
that it was advisable to have the guns between him and the enemy.

For upwards of an hour the crowd of thousands of people and cattle filed past; at length the
last straggler closed the line of march. But where were our promised porters? Not a man was
forthcoming, and we were now the sole occupants of the deserted village, excepting M'Gambi
and Cassave. These men declared that the people were so frightened that no one would remain
to carry us and ours effects, but that they would go to a neighbouring villa and bring porters
to convey us to Foweera tomorrow, as that was the spot where Kamrasi wished us to camp; at
Foweera there was no high grass, and the country was perfectly open, so that the rifles could
command an extensive range. The cunning and duplicity of Kamrasi were extraordinary--he promised,
only to deceive; his object in leaving us here was premeditated, as he knew that the M'was,
should they pursue him, must fight us before they could follow on his path; we were therefore
to be left to defend his rear. The order to camp at Foweera had a similar motive. I knew the
country, as we had passed it on our march from Atada to M'rooli; it was about three miles from
Karuma Falls, and would form a position in Kamrasi's rear when he should locate, himself upon
the island. Foweera was an excellent military point, as it was equidistant from the Nile north
and east at the angle where the river turned to the west from Atada.

I was so annoyed at the deception practised by Kamrasi that I determined to fraternise with
the M'was, should they appear at Kisoona; and I made up my mind not to fire a shot except in
absolute necessity for so faithless an ally as the king. This I explained to M'Gambi, and threatened
that if porters were not supplied I would wait at Kisoona, join the M'was on their arrival,
and with them as allies I would attack the island which Kamrasi boasted was his stronghold.
This idea frightened M'Gambi, and both he and Cassave started to procure porters, promising
most faithfully to appear that evening, and to start together to Foweera on the following morning.
We were a party of twenty guns; there was no fear in the event of an attack. I ordered all
the huts of the village to be burned except those belonging to our men; thus we had a clear
space for the guns in case of necessity. In the evening, true to his promise, M'Gambi appeared
with a number of natives, but Cassave had followed Kamrasi.

At sunrise on the following day we started, my wife in a litter, and I in a chair. The road
was extremely bad, excessively muddy from the rain of yesterday, trodden deeply by the hoofs
of herds of cattle, and by the feet of the thousands that had formed Kamrasi's army and camp
followers. There was no variety in the country, it was the same undulating land overgrown with
impenetrable grass, and wooded with mimosas; every swamp being shaded by clumps of the graceful
wild date. After a march of about eight miles we found the route dry and dusty, the rain on
the preceding day having been partial. There was no water on the road and we were all thirsty,
having calculated on a supply from the heavy rain. Although many thousands of people had travelled
on the path so recently as the previous day, it was nevertheless narrow and hemmed in by the
high grass, as the crowd had marched in single file and had therefore not widened the route.
This caused great delay to the porters who carried the litter, as they marched two deep; thus
one man had to struggle through the high grass. M'Gambi started off in advance of the party
with several natives at a rapid pace, while the Turks and some of my men guarded the ammunition,
and I remained in company with the litter and five of my men to bring up the rear. The progress
of the litter was so slow that, after travelling all day until sunset, we were outmarched,
and just as it was getting dark, we arrived at a spot where a path branched to the south, while
the main path that we had been following continued E.N.E. At this point a native was waiting,
having been stationed there by the Turks to direct us to the south; he explained that the people
had halted at a village close by. Pushing our way through the narrow path we shortly arrived
at the village of Deang. This consisted of a few deserted huts scattered among extensive groves
of plantains. Here we found Eddrees and the Turks, with their captives from the attack on Fowooka;
passing their huts, we took possession of two clean and new huts in the midst of a well-cultivated
field of beans that were about six inches above the ground, the cleared field forming an oasis
in the middle of the surrounding grass jungle There was no water; it was already dark, and,
although we had travelled through the heat of the day, no one had drunk since the morning.
We were intensely thirsty, and the men searched in vain among the deserted huts in the hope
of finding a supply in the water jars they were all empty. Fortunately we had a little sour
milk in a jar that we had carried with us, barely sufficient for two persons. There was nothing
to eat except unripe plantains: these we boiled as a substitute for potatoes. I disarmed all
the porters, placing their lances and shields under my bedstead in the hut, lest their owners
should abscond during the night. It now appeared that our party had scattered most disgracefully;
those in advance with the ammunition who bad been ordered not to quit their charge for an instant,
had outmarched the main body, leaving Eddrees and a few men with the captive women, who could
not walk fast, and my small guard who had attended the litter.

No one ate much that night, as all were too thirsty. On the following morning I found to my
dismay that all of our porters had absconded, except two men who had slept in the same hut
with my people; we were for about the hundredth time deserted in this detestable country. I
ordered Eddrees to push on to Foweera, and to desire my men with the ammunition to wait there
until I should arrive, and to request Kamrasi to send porters immediately to assist us. Foweera
was about thirteen miles from Deang, our present position. Eddrees and his party started, and
I immediately sent my men with empty jars to search in all directions for water; they returned
in about an hour, having been unsuccessful. I again ordered them to search in another direction,
and should they find a native, to force him to be their guide to a drinking place. In about
three hours they returned, accompanied by two old men, and laden with three large jars of good
water; they had found the old people in a deserted village, and they had guided them to a spring
about three miles distant. Our chief want being supplied, we had no fear of starving, as there
was abundance of plantains, and we had about a dozen cheeses that we had manufactured while
at Kisoona, in addition to a large supply of flour. A slight touch of fever attacked me, and
I at length fell asleep.

I was awakened by the voices of my men, who were standing at the door of my hut with most doleful
countenances. They explained that Richarn was missing, and was supposed to have been killed
by the natives. My vakeel held a broken ramrod in his hand: this suspicious witness was covered
with blood. It appeared that while I was asleep, Richarn and one of my men named Mahommed had
taken their guns, and without orders had rambled through the country in search of a village,
with the intention of procuring porters, if possible, to carry us to Foweera.

They had arrived at a nest of small villages, and had succeeded in engaging four men; these
Richarn left in charge of Mahommed while he proceeded alone to a neighbouring village. Shortly
after his departure Mahommed heard the report of a gun in that direction about half a mile
distant, and leaving his charge, he ran towards the spot. On arrival, he found the village
deserted, and on searching the neighbourhood, and vainly calling Richarn, he came upon a large
pool of blood opposite several huts; lying upon the blood was the broken ramrod of Richarn's
gun. After searching without success, he had returned with the melancholy report of this disaster.
I was very fond of Richarn; he had followed me faithfully for years, and with fewer faults
than most of his race, he had exhibited many sterling qualities. I waited for two days in this
spot, searching for him in all directions. On one occasion my men saw a number of men and women
howling in a village not far from the place where the accident had happened; on the approach
of my people they fled into the jungles: thus, there was no doubt that Richarn must have shot
a man before he had been killed, as the natives were mourning for the dead.

I was much distressed at this calamity; my faithful Richarn was dead, and the double-barrelled
Purdey that he carried was lost; this belonged to my friend Oswell, of South African and Lake
Ngami celebrity; it was a much-prized weapon, with which he had hunted for five years all the
heavy game of Africa with such untiring zeal that much of the wood of the stock was eaten away
by the "wait a bit" thorns in his passage on horseback at full speed through the jungles. He
had very kindly lent me this old companion of his sports, and I had entrusted it to Richarn
as my most careful man: both man and gun were now lost.

Having vainly searched for two days, and my men having seen several village dogs with their
mouths and feet covered with blood, we came to the conclusion that his body had been dragged
into the grass jungle by the natives, and there, concealed, it had been discovered and devoured
by the dogs.

No porters had arrived from Kamrasi, neither had any reply been sent to the message I had forwarded
by Eddrees;--the evening arrived, and, much dispirited at the loss of my old servant, I lay
down on my angarep for the night. At about eight o'clock, in the stillness of our solitude,
my men asleep, with the exception of the sentry, we were startled by the sound of a nogara
at no great distance to the south of our huts. The two natives who had remained with us immediately
woke the men, and declared that the drums we heard were those of the M'was, who were evidently
approaching our village;--the natives knew the peculiar sound of the nogaras of the enemy,
which were different to those of Kamrasi. This was rather awkward--our ammunition was at Foweera,
and we had no more than the supply in our cartouche boxes, my men thirty rounds each, while
I carried in my pouch twenty-one. Our position was untenable, as the drinking place was three
miles distant. Again the nogara sounded, and the native guides declared that they could not
remain where we then were, but they would conceal themselves in the high grass. My wife proposed
that we should forsake our luggage, and march at once for Foweera and effect a junction with
our men and ammunition before daybreak. I was sure that it could not be less than twelve or
thirteen miles, and in her weak state it would be impossible for her to accomplish the distance,
through high grass, in darkness, over a rough path, with the chance of the route being already
occupied by the enemy. However, she was determined to risk the march. I accordingly prepared
to start at 9 P.M., as at that time the moon would be about 30 degrees above the horizon and
would afford us a good light. I piled all the luggage within the hut, packed our blankets in
a canvas bag, to be carried by one of the natives, and ordered one of our black women to carry
a jar of water. Thus provided, and forsaking all other effects, we started at exactly nine
o'clock, following our two natives as guides.

Our course was about E.N.E. The moon was bright, but the great height of the grass shadowed
the narrow path so that neither ruts nor stones were visible. The dew was exceedingly heavy,
and in brushing through the rank vegetation we were soon wet to the skin. This was our first
attempt at walking a distance since many months, and being dreadfully out of condition, I much
feared that one of us might be attacked by fever before we should have accomplished the march;
at all events, there was no alternative but to push ahead until we should reach Foweera, however
distant. We walked for about three hours along a narrow but unmistakeable path, well trodden
by the cattle and people that had accompanied Kamrasi. Suddenly we arrived at a place where
a path diverged to the right, while another led to the left: the former was much trodden by
cattle, and the guides declared this to be the right direction. Perfectly certain of their
mistake, as Foweera lay to the east, while such a course would lead us due south, I refused
to follow, and ordered the party to halt while I made a survey of the neighbourhood. I shortly
discovered in the bright moonlight that the larger path to the south had been caused by the
cattle that had been driven in that direction, but had again returned by the same route. It
was evident that some village lay to the south, at which Kamrasi and his army had slept, and
that they had returned by the same path to the Foweera main route on the following morning.
I soon discovered cattle tracks on the smaller path to the east: this I determined to follow.
My guides were of little use, and they confessed that they had only once visited the Foweera
country. We were bound for the principal village that belonged to the chief Kalloe, an excellent
man, who had frequently visited us at Kisoona.

Not far from the branch roads we came suddenly upon a few huts, the inmates of which were awake.
They gave us the unpleasant intelligence that the M'was occupied the country in advance, and
that we should not be able to pass them on our present route, as they were close to that spot.
It was now past midnight, the country was perfectly still, and having no confidence in the
guides I led the way.

About a mile from the huts that we had passed we suddenly observed the light of numerous fires,
and a great number of temporary huts formed of green grass and plantain leaves: this was the
camp of the M'was. I did not observe any people, nor did we wait long in our present position,
but taking a path that led to the north, we quietly and stealthily continued our march through
walls of high grass, until in about an hour we arrived in a totally different country. There
was no longer the dismal grass jungle in which a man was as much lost as a rabbit in a field
of corn, but beautiful park-like glades of rich and tender grass, like an English meadow, stretched
before us in the pale moonlight, darkened in many places by the shadows of isolated trees and
clumps of forest. Continuing along this agreeable route, we suddenly arrived at a spot where
numerous well-beaten paths branched into all directions. This was extreme confusion. We had
left the direct route to Foweera when we had made the detour to avoid the M'was' camp. I knew
that, as we had then turned to the north, our course should now be due east. There was a path
leading in that direction; but just as we were quietly deliberating upon the most advisable
course, we heard distant voices. Any voice in this neighbourhood I concluded must be that of
an enemy, therefore I ordered my people to sit down, while two men concealed themselves on
the borders of a jungle, about a hundred yards distant, as sentries.

I then sent Bacheeta and one of the guides towards the spot from which the sound of voices
had proceeded, to listen to their language, and to report whether they were M'was, or people
of Foweera. The spies started cautiously on their errand.

About five minutes passed in utter silence; the voices that we had heard had ceased. We were
very cold, being wet through with the dew. My wife was much fatigued, and now rested by sitting
on the bag of blankets. I was afraid of remaining long in inaction, lest she should become
stiff and be unable to march.

We had been thus waiting for about ten minutes, when we were suddenly startled by the most
fearful and piercing yell I ever heard. This proceeded from the jungle where one of my men
was on guard, about a hundred yards distant.

For the moment I thought he had been caught by a lion, and cocking my rifle, I ran towards
the spot. Before I reached the jungle I saw one of the sentries running in the same direction,
and two other figures approaching, one being dragged along by the throat by my man Moosa. He
had a prisoner. It appeared, that while he was crouching beneath the bushes at the entrance
of the main path that led through the jungle, he suddenly observed a man quietly stealing along
the forest close to him. He waited, unobserved, until the figure had passed him, when he quickly
sprang upon him from behind, seizing his spear with his left hand and grasping his throat with
his right.

This sudden and unexpected attack from an unseen enemy had so terrified the native that he
had uttered the extraordinary yell that had startled our party. He was now triumphantly led
by his captor, but he was so prostrated by fear that he trembled as though in an ague fit.
I endeavoured to reassure him, and Bacheeta shortly returning with the guide, we discovered
the value of our prize.

Far from being an enemy, he was one of Kalloe's men, who had been sent to spy the M'was from
Foweera: thus we had a dependable guide. This little incident was as refreshing as a glass
of sherry during the night's march, and we enjoyed a hearty laugh. Bacheeta had been unsuccessful
in finding the origin of the voices, as they had ceased shortly after she had left us. It appeared
that our captive had also heard the voices, and he was stealthily endeavouring to ascertain
the cause when he was so roughly seized by Moosa. We now explained to him our route, and he
at once led the way, relieving the native who had hitherto carried the bag of blankets. We
had made a considerable circuit by turning from the direct path, but we now had the advantage
of seeing the open country before us, and marching upon a good and even path. We walked for
about three hours from this spot at a brisk pace, my wife falling three times from sheer fatigue,
which induced stumbling over the slightest inequalities in the road. At length we descended
a valley, and crossing a slight hollow, we commenced the ascent of a gentle inclination upon
a beautiful grassy undulation crowned by a clump of large trees. In the stillness of the night
wherever we had halted we had distinctly heard the distant roar of the river; but the sound
had so much increased within the last hour that I felt convinced we must be near Foweera at
the bend of the Victoria Nile. My wife was so exhausted with the long march, rendered doubly
fatiguing by the dew that had added additional weight to her clothes, that she could hardly
ascend the hill we had just commenced. For the last hour our guide had declared that Foweera
was close to us; but experienced in natives' descriptions of distance, we were quite uncertain
as to the hour at which we should arrive. We were already at the top of the hill, and within
about two hundred yards of the dense clump of trees my wife was obliged to confess that she
could go no farther. Just at that moment a cock crowed; another replied immediately from the
clump of trees close to us, and the guide, little appreciating the blessing of his announcement,
told us that we had arrived at Kalloe's village, for which we were bound.

It was nearly 5 A.M., and we had marched from Deang at 9 P.M. There was some caution required
in approaching the village, as, should one of the Turks' sentries be on guard, he would in
all probability fire at the first object he might see, without a challenge. I therefore ordered
my men to shout, while I gave my well-known whistle that would be a signal of our arrival.
For some time we exerted our lungs in this manner before we received a reply, and I began to
fear that our people were not at this village: at length a well-known voice replied in Arabic.
The sentries and the whole party were positively ASLEEP, although close to an enemy's country.
They were soon awake when it was reported that we had arrived, and upon our entering the village
they crowded around us with the usual welcome. A large fire was lighted in a spacious hut,
and fortunately, the portmanteau having preceded us together with the ammunition, we were provided
with a change of clothes.

I slept for a couple of hours, and then sent for the chief of Foweera, Kalloe. Both he and
his son appeared; they said that their spies had reported that the M'was would attack this
village on the following day; that they had devastated the entire country and occupied the
whole of Unyoro and Chopi; that they had cut off a large herd of cattle belonging to Kamrasi,
and he had only just reached the island in time for security, as the enemy had arrived at the
spot and killed a number of people who were too late to embark. Kalloe reported that Kamrasi
had fired at the M'was from the island, but having no bullets his rifle was useless. The M'was
had returned the fire, being provided with four guns that they had procured from Speke's deserters;--they
were in the same condition as Kamrasi, having no bullets; thus a harmless fusilade had been
carried on by both parties. The M'was had retired from their position on the bank of the river
by Kamrasi's island, and had proceeded to Atada, which they had destroyed.

They were now within three miles of us; nevertheless the foolish Kalloe expressed his determination
of driving his cattle to Kamrasi's island for security, about two miles distant. I endeavoured
to persuade him that they would be perfectly safe if under our protection, but his only reply
was to order his son to drive them off immediately.

That day, Kalloe and all the natives quitted the village and fled to an island for security,
leaving us masters of the position. I served out a quantity of ammunition to the Turks, and
we were perfectly prepared. The drums of the M'was were heard in all directions both day and
night; but we were perfectly comfortable, as the granaries were well filled, and innumerable
fowls stored both this and the closely adjoining deserted villages.

On the following day M'Gambi appeared with a message from Kamrasi, begging us to come and form
a camp on the bank of the river opposite to his island to protect him from the M'was, who would
assuredly return and attack him in canoes. I told him plainly that I should not interfere to
assist him, as he had left me on the road at Deang; that Richarn had been killed by his people,
and that one of my guns was still in their possession, added to which I had been obliged to
forsake all my baggage, owing to the desertion of the porters;--for all these errors I should
hold Kamrasi responsible. He replied that he did not think Richarn was killed, but that he
had shot the chief of a village dead, having got into some quarrel with the natives.

The conversation ended by my adhering to my intention of remaining independent at Foweera.
M'Gambi said they were very miserable on the island, that no one could rest day or night for
the mosquitoes, and that they were suffering from famine;--he had several men with him, who
at once set to work to thrash out corn from the well-filled granaries of the village, and they
departed heavily laden. During the day a few natives of the district found their way into the
village for a similar purpose. I had previously heard that the inhabitants of Foweera were
disaffected, and that many were in correspondence with the enemy. I accordingly instructed
Bacheeta to converse with the people, and to endeavour through them to get into communication
with the M'was, assuring them that I should remain neutral, unless attacked, but if their intentions
were hostile I was quite ready to fight. At the same time I instructed her to explain that
I should be sorry to fire at the servants of M'tese, as he had behaved well to my friends Speke
and Grant, but that the best way to avoid a collision would be for the M'was to keep at a distance
from my camp. Bacheeta told me that this assurance would be certain to reach the chief of the
M'was, as many of the natives of Chopi were in league with them against Kamrasi.

In the afternoon of that day I strolled outside the village with some of my men to accompany
the party to the drinking place from which we procured our water; it was about a quarter of
a mile from the camp, and it was considered dangerous for any one to venture so far without
the protection of an armed party.

We had just returned, and were standing in the cool of the evening on the lawn opposite the
entrance of the camp, when one of my men came rushing towards us, shouting, "Richarn! Richarn's
come back!" In another moment I saw with extreme delight the jet black Richarn, whom I had
mourned as lost, quietly marching towards us. The meeting was almost pathetic. I took him warmly
by the hand and gave him a few words of welcome, but my vakeel, who had never cared for him
before, threw himself upon his neck and burst out crying like a child. How long this sobbing
would have continued I know not, as several of my Arabs caught the infection and began to be
lachrymose, while Richarn, embraced on all sides, stood the ordeal most stoically, looking
extremely bewildered, but totally unconscious of the cause of so much weeping. To change the
current of feeling, I told the boy Saat to fetch a large gourd-shell of merissa (native beer),
of which I had received a good supply from Kalloe. This soon arrived, and was by far the most
acceptable welcome to Richarn, who drank like a whale. So large was the gourd, that even after
the mighty draught enough remained for the rest of the party to sip. Refreshed by the much-loved
drink, Richarn now told us his story. When separated from Mahommed at the village he had found
a great number of people, some of whom were our runaway porters; on his attempting to persuade
them to return, a quarrel had taken place, and the chief of the village heading his men had
advanced on Richarn and seized his gun;--at the same time the chief called to his men to kill
him. Richarn drew his knife to release his gun; seeing which, the chief relaxed his hold, and
stepping a pace back he raised his lance to strike;--at the same moment Richarn pulled the
trigger and shot him dead. The natives, panic-stricken at the sudden effect of the shot, rushed
away, and Richarn, profiting by the opportunity, disappeared in the high grass, and fled. Once
in the interminable sea of grass that was almost impenetrable, he wandered for two days without
water: hearing the distant roar of the Nile, he at length reached it when nearly exhausted
with thirst and fatigue;--he then followed up the stream to Karuma, avoided the M'was,--and
knowing the road thence to M'rooli that we had formerly travelled, he arrived at Foweera. His
ramrod had been broken in the struggle when the chief seized his gun, and to his great astonishment
I now showed him the piece that we had picked up on the pool of blood. He had made an excellent
loading-rod with his hunting knife by shaping a sapling of hard wood, and had reloaded his
gun; thus with a good supply of ammunition he had not much fear of the natives. Kamrasi had
evidently heard the true account of the affair.

Late in the evening we heard from a native that the whole of Kalloe's cattle that he had driven
from Foweera had been captured by the enemy on their way to the river island, and that one
of his sons and several natives who had driven them were killed;--this was the result of his
precipitate flight.

The M'was followed up their advantages with uninterrupted success, overrunning the entire country
even to the shores of the Albert lake, and driving off the cattle, together with all the women
that had not taken refuge upon the numerous islands of the Victoria Nile. During this time,
Kamrasi and his wives, together with his principal chiefs, resided in the misery of mosquitoes
and malaria on the river; great numbers of people died of disease and starvation.

M'Gambi appeared frequently at our camp in order to procure corn, and from him we received
reports of the distress of the people; his appearance had much changed; he looked half starved,
and complained that he had nothing to drink but Nile water, as they had neither corn, nor pots
in which they could make merissa, and the M'was had destroyed all the plantains, therefore
they could not prepare cider.

Among other losses my two cows were reported by M'Gambi to have been stolen by the M'was, in
company with the cattle of Kamrasi, with which they had been driven from Kisoona. I did not
believe it, as he also told me that all the luggage that I had left at Deang had like wise
been stolen by the enemy. But I had heard from Bacheeta that the natives of that neighbourhood
had carried it (about six loads) direct to Kamrasi's island; thus it was in his possession
at the same time that he declared it to have been stolen by the M'was. I told him, that I should
hold him responsible, and that he should pay me the value of the lost effects in a certain
number of cows.

A few days after this conversation, my cows and the whole of my luggage were delivered to me
in safety. Kamrasi had evidently intended to appropriate them, but being pressed by the M'was
and his old enemies on the east bank of the Nile (the Langgos), who had made common cause with
the invaders, the time was not favourable for a quarrel with either me or the Turks.

On the evening of the 19th September, a few days after this occurrence, intelligence was brought
into camp that Ibrahim and a hundred men had arrived at Karuma Falls at the ferry by which
we had formerly crossed the river to Atada. I immediately despatched ten men to investigate
the truth of the report. In about two hours they returned in high spirits, having exchanged
greeting with Ibrahim and his party across the river. Kamrasi had despatched boats to another
ferry above the Falls to facilitate the passage of the entire party on the following morning,
as he wished them to attack the M'was immediately.

Not being desirous of such an encounter, the M'was, who had witnessed the arrival of this powerful
reinforcement, immediately retreated, and by sunrise they had fallen back about twenty miles
on the road to M'rooli.

On the morning of the 20th Ibrahim arrived, bringing with him the Post from England; that being
addressed to the consul at Khartoum had been forwarded to Gondokoro by the annual boats, and
taken charge of by Ibrahim on his arrival at that station last April with ivory from the interior.
My letters were of very old dates, none under two years, with the exception of one from Speke,
who had sent me the Illustrated London News, containing his portrait and that of Grant; also
Punch, with an illustration of Punch's discovery of the Nile sources. For a whole day I revelled
in the luxury of letters and newspapers.

Ibrahim had very kindly thought of our necessities when at Gondokoro, and had brought me a
piece of coarse cotton cloth of Arab manufacture (darmoor) for clothes for myself, and a piece
of cotton print for a dress for Mrs. Baker, in addition to a large jar of honey, and some rice
and coffee--the latter being the balance of my old stock that I bad been obliged to forsake
for want of porters at Shooa. He told me that all my effects that I had left at Obbo had been
returned to Gondokoro, and that my two men, whom I had left in charge, had returned with them
to Khartoum, on board the vessel that had been sent for me from that place, but which had joined
the traders' boats on their return voyage. Ibrahim had assured the captain that it was impossible
that we could arrive during that year. It was thus fortunate that we had not pushed on for
Gondokoro after April in expectation of finding the boat awaiting us. However, "All's well
that ends well," and Ibrahim was astounded at our success, but rather shocked at our personal
appearance, as we were thin and haggard, and our clothes had been so frequently repaired that
they would hardly hold together.

On the 23d September we moved our camp, and took possession of a village within half a mile
of the Victoria Nile. Kamrasi was now very valorous, and returned from his island to a large
village on the banks of the river. He sent Ibrahim an immense quantity of ivory, in addition
to the store that had been concealed by Eddrees on our departure from Kisoona; this was sent
for, and in a few days it was safely deposited in the general camp. Ibrahim was amazed at the
fortune that awaited him. I congratulated him most heartily on the success of the two expeditions--
the geographical, and the ivory trade; the latter having far more than fulfilled my promise.

Kamrasi determined to invade the Langgo country immediately, as they had received Fowooka after
his defeat, and he was now residing with the chief. Accordingly, eighty of Ibrahim's men were
despatched across the river, and in three days they destroyed a number of villages, and captured
about 200 head of cattle, together with a number of prisoners, including many women. Great
rejoicings took place on their return; Ibrahim presented Kamrasi with a hundred cows, and in
return for this generosity the king sent thirty immense tusks, and promised a hundred more
within a few days.

Another expedition was demanded, and was quickly undertaken with similar success; this time
Fowooka narrowly escaped, as a Turk fired at him, but missed and killed a native who stood
by him. On the return of the party, Kamrasi received another present of cattle, and again the
ivory flowed into the camp.

In the meantime, I had made myself excessively comfortable; we were in a beautiful and highly
cultivated district, in the midst of immense fields of sweet potatoes. The idea struck me that
I could manufacture spirit from this source, as they were so excessively sweet as to be disagreeable
as a vegetable. Accordingly I collected a great number of large jars that were used by the
natives for brewing merissa; in these I boiled several hundredweight of potatoes to a pulp.
There were jars containing about twenty gallons; these I filled with the pulp mashed with water,
to which I added yeast from a brewing of merissa. While this mixture was fermenting I constructed
my still, by fixing a jar of about twelve gallons on a neat furnace of clay, and inserting
the mouth of a smaller jar upon the top; the smaller jar thus inverted became the dome of the
still. In the top of this I bored a hole, in which I fitted a long reed of about an inch in
diameter, which descended to my condenser; the latter was the kettle, sunk by a weight in a
large pan of cold water.

My still worked beautifully, and produced four or five bottles of good spirit daily;--this
I stored in large bottle gourds, containing about four gallons each. My men were excessively
fond of attending to the distillery, especially Richarn, who took a deep interest in the operation,
but who was frequently found dead asleep on his back; the fire out; and the still at a standstill.
Of course he could not be suspected of having tried the produce of his manufactory! I found
an extraordinary change in my health from the time that I commenced drinking the potato whisky.
Every day I drank hot toddy. I became strong, and from that time to the present day my fever
left me, occurring only once or twice during the first six months, and then quitting me entirely.
Not having tasted either wine or spirits for nearly two years, the sudden change from total
abstinence to a moderate allowance of stimulant produced a marvellous effect. Ibrahim and some
of his men established stills; several became intoxicated, which so delighted M'Gambi, who
happened to be present, that he begged a bottle of spirit from Ibrahim as a sample for Kamrasi.
It appears that the king got drunk so quickly upon the potent spirit, that he had an especial
desire to repeat the dose--he called it the maroua (cider) of our country, and pronounced it
so far superior to his own that he determined to establish a factory. When I explained to him
that it was the produce of sweet potatoes, he expressed his great regret that he had never
sufficiently appreciated their value, and he expressed a determination to cultivate whole districts.
Ibrahim was requested to leave one of his men who understood the management of a still, to
establish and undertake the direction of "King Kamrasi's Central African Unyoro Potato-Whisky
Company, unlimited."

Ibrahim had brought a variety of presents for Kamrasi: fifty pounds of beads, a revolver pistol,
cotton cloths, blue glass tumblers, looking-glasses, &c. These donations, added to the pleasure
afforded by the defeat of his enemies, put his majesty into excellent humour, sad he frequently
came to visit us. On one occasion I gave him the portraits of Speke and Grant: the latter he
recognised immediately; he could not understand the pictures in Punch, declaring that he (Punch)
was not an Englishman, as he neither resembled me nor Speke; but he was exceedingly pleased
with the Paris fashions in the Illustrated London News, which we cut out with a pair of scissors,
and gave him as specimens of English ladies in full dress.

The war being concluded by the total discomfiture of his enemies, Kamrasi was determined to
destroy all those inhabitants of Foweera who had in any way connived as the attack of the M'was.
Daily executions took place in the summary manner already described, the victims being captured,
led before the king, and butchered in his presence without a trial.

Among others suspected as favourable to revolution was Kalloe, the chief of Foweera; next to
Kamrasi and M'Gambi he was the principal man in the kingdom; he was much beloved by the entire
population of Chopi and Foweera, and I had always found him most intelligent and friendly.
One night, at about eight o'clock, Ibrahim came to my hut looking very mysterious, and after
assuring himself that no one was present, he confided to me that he had received orders from
Kamrasi to attack Kalloe's village before daybreak on the following morning, to surround his
dwelling, and to shoot him as he attempted to escape; Ibrahim was further instructed to capture
the women and children of the village as his perquisites. At the very moment that thus treacherous
compact had been entered into with Ibrahim, Kamrasi had pretended to be upon the most friendly
terms with Kalloe, who was then in his camp; but he did not lay violent hands upon him, as,
many of the natives being in his favour, the consequences might have been disagreeable: thus
he had secretly ordered his destruction. I at once desired Ibrahim at all hazards to renounce
so horrible a design. Never did I feel so full of revolution as at that moment; my first impulse
was to assist Kalloe to dethrone Kamrasi, and to usurp the kingdom. Ibrahim had an eye to business;
he knew, that should he offend Kamrasi there would be an end to the ivory trade for the present.
The country was so rich in ivory that it was a perfect bank upon which he could draw without
limit, provided that he remained an ally of the king; but no trade could be carried on with
the natives, all business being prohibited by Kamrasi, who himself monopolised the profits.
In the event of war, not a tusk would be obtained, as the ivory in possession of the natives
was never stored in their huts, but was concealed in the earth. The Turks were now mercenaries
employed by the king to do any bloody work that he might require.

Ibrahim was in a dilemma. I offered to take the entire onus upon myself. That Kalloe should
not be murdered I was determined; the old man had on several occasions been very obliging to
me and to my people, and I resolved to save him at any risk. His son, perfectly unsuspicious
of evil, was at that moment in our camp, having fraternized with some of my men. I sent for
him immediately and explained the entire plot, concluding by telling him to run that instant
at full speed to his father (about two miles distant), and to send away all the women and children
from the village, but to bring Kalloe to my hut; that I would hoist the British flag, as I
had done at Kisoona, and this should protect him from the bloodthirsty Kamrasi, who would not
dare to seize him. Should he refuse to trust me, he must fly immediately, as the Turks would
attack the village before daybreak. Away started the astonished son in the dark night at full
speed along the well-known path, to give the warning.

I now arranged with Ibrahim that to avoid offending Kamrasi he should make a false attack upon
the village at the time appointed; he would find it deserted, and there would be an end of
the matter should Kalloe prefer flight to trusting in my protection, which I felt sure he would.
Midnight arrived, and no signs of Kalloe had appeared; I went to sleep, satisfied that he was
safe. Before daybreak eighty men of the Turks' party started upon their feigned expedition;
in about two hours they returned, having found the village deserted;--the bird had flown. I
was delighted at the success of this ruse, but I should have been more satisfied had Kalloe
placed himself in my hands: this I had felt sure he would decline, as the character of the
natives is generally so false and mistrustful that he would suspect a snare.

At about noon we heard yells; drums were beating and horns blowing in all directions. For the
moment I thought that Kalloe had raised the country against Kamrasi, as I observed many hundred
men dressed for war, scouring the beautiful open park, like hounds upon a scent. The Turks
beat their drum and called their men under arms beneath the ensign planted outside the village,--not
knowing the intention of the unusual gathering. It shortly transpired that Kamrasi had heard
of the escape of Kalloe, and, enraged at the loss of his prey, he had immediately started about
a thousand men in pursuit.

In the evening I heard that he had been captured. I sent to Kamrasi directly, to beg him to
postpone his execution, as I wished to speak with him on the following morning.

At sunrise I started, and found the king sitting in his but, while Kalloe was lying under a
plantain tree perfectly resigned, with his leg in the Kamrasi shoe--a block of wood of about
four feet long and ten inches thick (the rough trunk of a tree); his left foot had been thrust
through a small hole in the log, while a peg driven through at right angles just above the
instep effectually secured the prisoner. This was a favourite punishment of the king; the prisoner
might thus languish until released by death; it was impossible to sit up, and difficult to
lie down, the log having to be adjusted by an attendant according to the movement of the body.
I told Kamrasi that as I had saved him from the attack of the Turks at Kisoona he must grant
me a favour, and spare Kalloe's life: this request, to my astonishment, he at once granted,
[A few days afterwards he shot Kalloe with his own hands.] and added, that he should only keep
him in the "shoe" for a few days, until his people should bring him a hundred cows as a fine,
in which case he should release him. I had no faith in his promise, as I had before heard that
it was his practice to put the shoe upon any rich man in order to extract a fine, upon the
payment of which the unfortunate prisoner was on some occasions killed instead of liberated.
However, I had done all in my power; and had Kalloe been a man of determination, he could have
saved himself by trusting implicitly to me. As I returned to the camp, I could not help reflecting
on the ingratitude I had experienced among all the natives; on many occasions I had exerted
myself to benefit others in whom I had no personal interest, but in no single instance had
I ever received even a look of gratitude.

Two days after this occurrence I ordered the boy Saat to go as usual in search of supplies
to the neighbouring villages; but as he was starting, Ibrahim advised him to wait a little,
as something was wrong, and it would be dangerous to go alone. A few minutes later, I heard
three shots fired in rapid succession at about three-quarters of a mile distant. The Turks
and my men immediately thronged outside the village, which position being on a hill, we had
a panoramic view of the surrounding country.

We shortly perceived a number of men, including a few of the Turks' party, approaching from
an opposite hill, carrying something heavy in their arms. With the telescope I distinguished
a mat on which some object of weight was laboriously supported, the bearers grasping the corners
in their hands. "One of our people is killed!" murmured one Turk. "Perhaps it's only a native,"
said another. "Who would trouble himself to carry a black fellow home!" exclaimed a third.
The mystery was soon cleared by the arrival of the party with the dead body of one of Kamrasi's
headmen; one ball had struck him through the chest, another through the right arm, and the
third had passed through the body from side to side. He had been shot by some Bari slaves who
acted as soldiers belonging to the Turks' party. It appeared that the deceased had formerly
sent seventy elephants' tusks to the people of Mahommed Wat-el-Mek against the orders of Kamrasi,
who had prohibited the export of ivory from his kingdom, as he had agreed to deal exclusively
with Ibrahim. The culprit was therefore condemned to death, but having some powerful adherents
in his village, Kamrasi had thought it advisable to employ the Turks to shoot him; this task
they gladly accepted, as they were minus seventy tusks through his conduct. Without my knowledge,
a small party had started in open daylight to his village close to our camp, and on attempting
to enter the fence, several lances were thrown at the Turks; the deceased rushed from the hut
attempting to escape, and was immediately shot dead by three of the Bari soldiers. The hands
were then (as usual in all these countries) amputated at the wrists, in order to detach the
copper bracelets; the body being dragged about two hundred paces from the village, was suspended
by the neck to a branch of the tamarind tree. All the slave women (about seventy) and children
were then driven down to the spot by the Turks to view the body as it swung from the branch;
when thoroughly horrified by the sight, they were threatened to be served precisely in a similar
manner should they ever attempt to escape.

Superlatively brutal as this appeared, I could not help reflecting that our public executions
in England convey a similar moral; the only difference being in the conduct of the women; the
savages having to be DRIVEN to the sight as witnesses, while European females throng curiously
to such disgusting exhibitions. A few minutes after the departure of the crowd, the tree was
covered with vultures, all watching the prospective feast. [The woman Bacheeta ran away, and
we never saw her again. Some time after, we heard that she had escaped to Fowooka's people,
fearing to be left by us, as we had promised, in Chopi.]

In the evening Kamrasi sent a number of women and children as presents to Ibrahim: altogether
he had given him seventy-two slaves in addition to those captured in the various wars. There
never was a more supreme despot than the king Kamrasi--not only the property, but the families
of his subjects were at his disposal; he boasted that "all belonged to him." Thus, when disposed
to be liberal, he took from others and bestowed upon his favourites; should any sufferer complain,
there were no lawyer's costs, but the "shoe," or death. His power depended upon a perfect system
of espionage, by which he obtained a knowledge of all that passed throughout his kingdom; that
being divided into numerous small districts, each governed by a chief, who was responsible
for the acts committed within his jurisdiction, the government was wonderfully simplified.
Should a complaint be made against a governor, he was summoned before the king; if guilty,
death, or the "shoe!" To be suspected of rebellion, was to die. A bodyguard of about 500 men,
who were allowed to pillage the country at discretion, secured the power of the king, as with
this organized force always at hand he could pounce upon the suspected and extinguish them
at once: thus the tyrant held his sway over a population so timid that they yielded tamely
to his oppression. Having now allied himself to the Turks, he had conceived the most ambitious
views of conquering Uganda, and of restoring the ancient kingdom of Kitwara; but the total
absence of physical courage will utterly frustrate such plans for extension, and Kamrasi the
Cruel will never be known as Kamrasi the Conqueror.

CHAPTER XVI.

KAMRASI'S ADIEU.

It was the middle of November--not the wretched month that chills even the recollection of
Old England, but the last of the ten months of rain that causes the wonderful vegetation of
the fertile soil in Equatorial Africa. The Turks were ready to return to Shooa, and I longed
for the change from this brutal country to the still wilder but less bloody tribe of Madi,
to the north.

The quantity of ivory in camp was so large that we required 700 porters to carry both tusks
and provisions, &c. for the five days' march through uninhabited country. Kamrasi came to see
us before we parted; he had provided the requisite porters. We were to start on the following
day; he arrived with the Blissett rifle that had been given him by Speke. He told me that he
was sorry we were going; and he was much distressed that he had burst his rifle!--he had hammered
a large bullet in the endeavour to fit the bore; and the lump of lead having stuck in the middle,
he had fired his rifle and split the barrel, which being of remarkably good metal had simply
opened. He told me that it did not matter so very much after all, as he had neither powder
nor ball (this was false, as Ibrahim had just given him a quantity), therefore his rifle would
have been useless if sound; but he added, "You are now going home, where you can obtain all
you require, therefore you will want for nothing; give me, before you leave, the little double-barrelled
rifle that YOU PROMISED me, and a supply of ammunition!" To the last moment he was determined
to persevere in his demand, and, if possible, to obtain my handy little Fletcher 24 rifle,
that had been demanded and refused ever since my residence in his country. I was equally persistent
in my refusal, telling him that there were many dangers on the road, and I could not travel
unarmed.

On the following morning our people crossed the river: this was a tedious operation, as our
party consisted of about 700 porters and eighty armed men: Ibrahim had arranged to leave thirty
men with Kamrasi to protect him from the M'was until he should return in the following season,
when he promised to bring him a great variety of presents. By 4 P.M. the whole party had crossed
the river with ivory and baggage. We now brought up the rear, and descended some fine crags
of granite to the water's edge; there were several large canoes in attendance, one of which
we occupied, and, landing on the opposite shore, we climbed up the steep ascent and looked
back upon Unyoro, in which we had passed ten months of wretchedness. It had poured with rain
on the preceding day, and the natives had constructed a rough camp of grass huts.

On the break of day on the 17th November we started. It would be tedious to describe the journey,
as, although by a different route, it was through the same country that we had traversed on
our arrival from Shooa. After the first day's march we quitted the forest and entered upon
the great prairies. I was astonished to find after several days' journey a great difference
in the dryness of the climate. In Unyoro we had left the grass an intense green, the rain having
been frequent: here it was nearly dry, and in many places it had been burnt by the native hunting
parties. From some elevated points in the route I could distinctly make out the outline of
the mountains running from the Albert lake to the north, on the west bank of the Nile; these
would hardly have been observed by a person who was ignorant of their existence, as the grass
was so high that I had to ascend a white ant-hill to look for them; they were about sixty miles
distant, and my men, who knew them well, pointed them out to their companions.

The entire party, including women and children, amounted to about 1,000 people. Although they
had abundance of flour, there was no meat, and the grass being high there was no chance of
game. On the fourth day only I saw a herd of about twenty tetel (hartebeest) in an open space
that had been recently burnt. We were both riding upon oxen that I had purchased of Ibrahim,
and we were about a mile ahead of the flag in the hope of getting a shot; dismounting from
my animal, I stalked the game down a ravine, but upon reaching the point that I had resolved
upon for the shot, I found the herd had moved their position to about 250 paces from me. They
were all looking at me, as they had been disturbed by the oxen and the boy Saat in the distance.
Dinner depended on the shot. There was a leafless bush singed by the recent fire; upon a branch
of this I took a rest, but just as I was going to fire they moved off--a clean miss! --whizz
went the bullet over them, but so close to the ears of one that it shook its head as though
stung by a wasp, and capered round and round; the others stood perfectly still, gazing at the
oxen in the distance. Crack went the left-hand barrel of the little Fletcher 24, and down went
a tetel like a lump of lead, before the satisfactory sound of the bullet returned from the
distance. Off went the herd, leaving a fine beast kicking on the ground. It was shot through
the spine, and some of the native porters, having witnessed the sport from a great distance,
threw down their loads and came racing towards the meat like a pack of wolves scenting blood.
In a few minutes the prize was divided, while a good portion was carried by Saat for our own
use; the tetel, weighing about 500 lbs. vanished among the crowd in a few minutes.

On the fifth day's march from the Victoria Nile we arrived at Shooa; the change was delightful
after the wet and dense vegetation of Unyoro: the country was dry, and the grass low and of
fine quality. We took possession of our camp, that had already been prepared for us in a large
courtyard well cemented with cow-dung and clay, and fenced with a strong row of palisades.
A large tree grew in the centre. Several hits were erected for interpreters and servants, and
a tolerably commodious hut, the roof overgrown with pumpkins, was arranged for our mansion.

That evening the native women crowded to our camp to welcome my wife home, and to dance in
honour of our return; for which exhibition they expected a present of a cow.

Much to my satisfaction, I found that my first-rate riding ox that had been lamed during the
previous year by falling into a pitfall, and had been returned to Shooa, was perfectly recovered;
thus I had a good mount for my journey to Gondokoro.

Some months were passed at Shooa, during which I occupied my time by rambling about the neighbourhood,
ascending the mountain, making duplicates of my maps, and gathering information, all of which
was simply a corroboration of what I had heard before, excepting from the East. The Turks had
discovered a new country called Lira, about thirty miles from Shooa; the natives were reported
as extremely friendly, and their country as wonderfully fertile and rich in ivory. Many of
the people were located in the Turks' camp; they were the same type as the Madi, but wore their
hair in a different form: it was woven into a thick felt, which covered the shoulders, and
extended as low upon the back as the shoulderblade.

They were not particular about wearing false hair, but were happy to receive subscriptions
from any source; in case of death the hair of the deceased was immediately cut off and shared
among his friends to be added to their felt. When in full dress (the men being naked) this
mass of felt was plastered thickly with a bluish clay, so as to form an even surface; this
was most elaborately worked with the point of a thorn, so as to resemble the cuttings of a
file: white pipe-clay was then arranged in patterns on the surface, while an ornament made
of either an antelope's or giraffe's sinew was stuck in the extremity and turned up for about
a foot in length. This when dry was as stiff as horn, and the tip was ornamented with a tuft
of fur--the tip of a leopard's tail being highly prized.

I am not aware that any Lord Chancellor of England or any member of the English bar has ever
penetrated to Central Africa, therefore the origin of the fashion and the similarity in the
wigs is most extraordinary; a well-blacked barrister in full wig and nothing else would thoroughly
impersonate a native of Lira. The tribe of Lira was governed by a chief; but he had no more
real authority than any of the petty chiefs who ruled the various portions of the Madi country.
Throughout the tribes excepting the kingdom of Unyoro, the chiefs had very little actual power,
and so uncertain was their tenure of office that the rule seldom remained two generations in
one family. On the death of the father, the numerous sons generally quarrelled for his property
and for the right of succession, ending in open war, and in dividing the flocks and herds,
each settling in a separate district and becoming a petty chief; thus there was no union throughout
the country, and consequently great weakness. The people of Lira were fighting with their friends
the Langgos--those of Shooa with the natives of Fatiko; nor were there two neighbouring tribes
that were at peace. It was natural that such unprincipled parties as the Khartoum traders should
turn this general discord to their own advantage; thus within the ten months that I had been
absent from Shooa a great change had taken place in the neighbourhood. The rival parties of
Koorshid and Debono, under their respective leaders, Ibrahim and Mahommed Wat-el-Mek, had leagued
themselves with contending tribes, and the utter ruin of the country was the consequence. For
many miles' circuit from Shooa, the blackened ruins of villages and deserted fields bore witness
to the devastation committed; cattle that were formerly in thousands, had been driven off,
and the beautiful district that had once been most fertile was reduced to a wilderness. By
these wholesale acts of robbery and destruction the Turks had damaged their own interests,
as the greater number of the natives had fled to other countries; thus it was most difficult
to obtain porters to convey the ivory to Gondokoro. The people of the country had been so spoiled
by the payment in cows instead of beads for the most trifling services, that they now refused
to serve as porters to Gondokoro under a payment of four cows each; thus, as 1,000 men were
required, 4,000 cows were necessary as payment. Accordingly razzia must be made.

Upon several expeditions, the Turks realized about 2,000 cows; the natives had become alert,
and had driven off their herds to inaccessible mountains. Debono's people at their camp, about
twenty-five miles distant, were even in a worse position than Ibrahim; they had so exasperated
the natives by their brutal conduct, that tribes formerly hostile to each other now coalesced
and combined to thwart the Turks by declining to act as porters; thus their supply of ivory
could not be transported to Gondokoro. This led to extra violence on the part of the Turks,
until at last the chief of Faloro (Werdella) declared open war, and suddenly driving off the
Turks' cattle, he retired to the mountains, from whence he sent an impertinent message inviting
Mahommed to try to rescue them.

This act of insolence united the rival trading parties against Werdella: those of Ibrahim and
Mahommed agreed to join in an attack upon his village. They started with a force of about 300
armed men, and arriving at the foot of the mountains at about 4 A.M. they divided their force
into two parties of 150 men each, and ascended the rocky hill upon two sides, intending to
surprise the village on one side, while the natives and their herds would be intercepted in
their flight upon the other.

The chief, Werdella, was well experienced in the affairs of the Turks, as he had been for two
or three years engaged with them in many razzias upon the adjoining tribes--he had learnt to
shoot while acting as their ally, and having received as presents two muskets, and two brace
of pistols from Debono's nephew Amabile, he thought it advisable to supply himself with ammunition;
he had therefore employed his people to steal a box of 500 cart ridges and a parcel containing
10,000 percussion caps from Mahommed's camp. Werdella was a remarkably plucky fellow; and thus
strengthened by powder and ball, and knowing the character of the Turks, he resolved to fight.

Hardly had the Turks' party of 150 men advanced half way up the mountain path in their stealthy
manner of attempting a surprise, when they were assailed by a shower of arrows, and the leader
who carried the flag fell dead at the report of a musket fired from behind a rock. Startled
at this unexpected attack, the Turks' party recoiled, leaving their flag upon the ground by
the dead standard-bearer. Before they had time to recover from their first panic, another shot
was fired from the same shelter at a distance of about thirty paces, and the brains of one
of the Turks' party were splattered over his comrades, as the ball took the top of his head
completely off. Three Bagara Arabs, first-rate elephant hunters, who were with the Turks, now
rushed forward and saved the flag and a box of ammunition that the porter had thrown down in
his flight. These Arabs, whose courage was of a different class to that of the traders' party,
endeavoured to rally the panic-stricken Turks, but just as they were feebly and irresolutely
advancing, another shot rang from the same fatal rock, and a man who carried a box of cartridges
fell dead. This was far too hot for the traders' people, who usually had it all their own way,
being alone possessed of firearms. A disgraceful flight took place, but Werdella was again
too much for them. On their arrival at the bottom of the hill, they ran round the base to join
the other division of their party; this effected, they were consulting together as to retreat
or advance, when close above their heads from an overhanging rock another shot was fired, and
a man dropped, shot through the chest. The head of Werdella was distinctly seen grinning in
triumph; --the whole party fired at him! "He's down!" was shouted, as the head disappeared;--a
puff of smoke from the rock, and a shriek from one of the Turks at the sound of another musket
shot from the same spot, settled the question; a man fell mortally wounded. Four men were shot
dead, and one was brought home by the crestfallen party to die in two or three days; five shots
had been fired, and five killed, by one native armed with two guns against 300 men. "Bravo,
Werdella!" I exclaimed, as the beaten party returned to camp and Ibrahim described the fight.
He deserved the Victoria Cross. This defeat completely cowed the cowardly Turks; nor would
any persuasions on the part of Ibrahim induce them to make another razzia within the territory
of the redoubted chief, Werdella.

During the absence of the traders' party upon various expeditions, about fifty men were left
in their camp as headquarters. Nothing could exceed the brutality of the people; they had erected
stills, and produced a powerful corn spirit from the native merissa; their entire time was
passed in gambling, drinking, and fighting, both by night and day. The natives were ill-treated,
their female slaves and children brutally ill-used, and the entire camp was a mere slice from
the infernal regions. My portion of the camp being a secluded courtyard, we were fortunately
independent.

On one occasion a razzia had been made; and although unsuccessful in cattle, it had been productive
in slaves. Among the captives was a pretty young girl of about fifteen; she had been sold by
auction in the camp, as usual, the day after the return from the razzia, and had fallen to
the lot of one of the men. Some days after her capture, a native from the village that had
been plundered confidently arrived at the camp with the intention of offering ivory for her
ransom. Hardly had he entered the gateway, when the girl, who was sitting at the door of her
owner's hut, caught sight of him, and springing to her feet, she ran as fast as her chained
ankles would allow her, and threw herself in his arms, exclaiming, "My father!" It was her
father, who had thus risked his life in the enemy's camp to ransom his child.

The men who were witnesses to this scene immediately rushed upon the unfortunate man, tore
him from his daughter, and bound him tightly with cords.

While this was enacting, I happened to be in my hut; thus I was not an eye-witness. About an
hour later, I called some of my men to assist me in cleaning some rifles. Hardly had we commenced,
when three shots were fired within a hundred paces of my hut. My men exclaimed, "They have
shot the Abid (native)!" "What native?" I inquired. They then related the story I have just
described. Brutal as these bloodthirsty villains were, I could hardly believe in so cold-blooded
a murder. I immediately sent my people and the boy Saat to verify it; they returned with the
report that the wretched father was sitting on the ground, bound to a tree, dead; shot by three
balls.

I must do Ibrahim the justice to explain that he was not in the camp; had he been present,
this murder would not have been committed, as he scrupulously avoided any such acts in my vicinity.
A few days later, a girl about sixteen, and her mother, who were slaves, were missing; they
had escaped. The hue and cry was at once raised. Ibrahimawa, the "Sinbad" of Bornu, who had
himself been a slave, was the most indefatigable slave-hunter. He and a party at once started
upon the tracks of the fugitives. They did not return until the following day; but where was
the runaway who could escape from so true a bloodhound? The young girl and her mother were
led into camp tied together by the neck, and were immediately condemned to be hanged. I happened
to be present, as, knowing the whole affair, I had been anxiously awaiting the result. I took
this opportunity of explaining to the Turks that I would use any force to prevent such an act,
and that I would report the names of all those to the Egyptian authorities who should commit
any murder that I could prove; neither would I permit the two captives to be flogged--they
were accordingly pardoned. [It will be observed that at this period of the expedition I had
acquired an extraordinary influence over the people, that enabled me to exert an authority
which saved the lives of many unfortunate creatures who would otherwise have been victims.]

There was among the slaves a woman who had been captured in the attack upon Fowooka. This woman
I have already mentioned as having a very beautiful boy, who at the time of the capture was
a little more than a year old.

So determined was her character, that she had run away five times with her child, but on every
occasion she had been recaptured, after having suffered much by hunger and thirst in endeavouring
to find her way back to Unyoro through the uninhabited wilderness between Shooa and Karuma.
On the last occasion of her capture, the Turks had decided upon her being incorrigible, therefore
she had received 144 blows with the coorbatch (hippopotamus whip), and had been sold separately
from her child to the party belonging to Mahommed Wat-el-Mek. Little Abbai had always been
a great pet of Mrs. Baker's, and the unfortunate child being now motherless, he was naturally
adopted, and led a most happy life. Although much under two years old, he was quite equal in
precocity to a European child of three; in form and strength he was a young Hercules, and,
although so young, he would frequently follow me out shooting for two or three miles, and return
home with a guinea-fowl hanging over his shoulder, or his hands full of pigeons. Abbai became
very civilized; he was taught to make a Turkish "salaam" upon receiving a present, and to wash
his hands both before and after his meals. He had the greatest objection to eat alone, and
he generally invited three or four friends of about his own age to dine with him; on such occasions,
a large wooden bowl, about twenty inches in diameter, was filled with soup and porridge, around
which steaming dish the young party sat, happier in their slavery than kings in power. There
were two lovely girls of three and eight years of age that belonged to Ibrahim; these were
not black, but of the same dark brown tint as Kamrasi and many of the Unyoro people. Their
mother was also there, and their history being most pitiable, they were always allowed free
access to our hut and the dinner bowl. These two girls were the daughters of Owine, one of
the great chiefs who were allied with Fowooka against Kamrasi. After the defeat of Fowooka,
Owine and many of his people with their families quitted the country, and forming an alliance
with Mahommed Wat-el-Mek, they settled in the neighbourhood of his camp at Faloro, and built
a village. For some time they were on the best terms, but some cattle of the Turks being missed,
suspicion fell upon the new settlers. The men of Mahommed's party desired that they might be
expelled, and Mahommed, in a fit of drunken fury, at once ordered them to be MASSACRED. His
men, eager for murder and plunder, immediately started upon their bloody errand, and surrounding
the unsuspecting colony, they fired the huts and killed EVERY MAN, including the chief, Owine;
capturing the women and children as slaves. Ibrahim had received the mother and two girls as
presents from Mahommed Wat-el-Mek. As the two rival companies had been forced to fraternize,
owing to the now generally hostile attitude of the surrounding tribes, the leaders had become
wonderfully polite, exchanging presents, getting drunk together upon raw spirits, and behaving
in a brotherly manner--according to their ideas of fraternity. There was a peculiar charm in
the association with children in this land of hardened hearts and savage natures: there is
a time in the life of the most savage animal when infancy is free from the fierce instincts
of race; even the lion's whelp will fondle the hand that it would tear in riper years: thus,
separated in this land of horrors from all civilization, and forced by hard necessity into
the vicinity of all that was brutal and disgusting, it was an indescribable relief to be surrounded
by those who were yet innocent, and who clung in their forsaken state to those who looked upon
them with pity. We had now six little dependents, none of whom could ever belong to us, as
they were all slaves, but who were well looked after by my wife; fed, amused, and kept clean.
The boy Abbai was the greatest favourite, as, having neither father nor mother, he claimed
the greatest care: he was well washed every morning, and then to his great delight smeared
all over from head to toes with red ochre and grease, with a cock's feather stuck in his woolly
pate. He was then a most charming pet savage, and his toilette completed, he invariably sat
next to his mistress, drinking a gourd-shell of hot milk, while I smoked my early morning pipe
beneath the tree. I made bows and arrows for my boys, and taught them to shoot at a mark, a
large pumpkin being carved into a man's head to excite their aim. Thus the days were passed
until the evening; at that time a large fire was lighted to create a blaze, drums were collected,
and after dinner a grand dance was kept up by the children, until the young Abbai ended regularly
by creeping under my wife's chair, and falling sound asleep: from this protected spot he was
carried to his mat, wrapped up in a piece of old flannel (the best cloth we had), in which
he slept till morning. Poor little Abbai! I often wonder what will be his fate, and whether
in his dreams he recalls the few months of happiness that brightened his earliest days of slavery.

Although we were in good health in Shooa, many of the men were ill, suffering generally from
headache; also from ulcerated legs;--the latter was a peculiar disease, as the ulcer generally
commenced upon the ankle bone and extended to such a degree that the patient was rendered incapable
of walking. The treatment for headache among all the savage tribes was a simple cauterization
of the forehead in spots burnt with a hot iron close to the roots of the hair. The natives
declared that the water was unwholesome from the small stream at the foot of the hill and that
all those who drank from the well were in good health. I went down to examine the spring, which
I found beautifully clear, while the appearance of the stream was quite sufficient to explain
the opposite quality. As I was walking quietly along the bank, I saw a bright ray of light
in the grass upon the opposite side; in another moment I perceived the head of a crocodile
which was concealed in the grass, the brightness of the sun's reflection upon the eye having
attracted my attention. A shot with the little 24 rifle struck just above the eye and killed
it; --it was a female, from which we extracted several large eggs, all with hard shells.

The shooting that I had while at Shooa was confined to antelopes; of these there was no variety
excepting waterbuck and hartebeest. Whenever I shot an animal the Shooa natives would invariably
cut its throat, and drink the hot blood as it gushed from the artery. In this neighbourhood
there was a great scarcity of game the natives of Lira described their country as teeming with
elephants and rhinoceros; a fine horn of the latter they brought with them to Shooa. There
is only one variety of rhinoceros that I have met with in the portions of Africa that I have
visited: this is the two-horned, a very exact sketch of which I made of the head of one that
I cut off after I had shot it. This two-horned black rhinoceros is extremely vicious. I have
remarked that they almost invariably charge any enemy that they smell, but do not see; they
generally retreat if they observe the object before obtaining the wind.

In my rambles in search of game, I found two varieties of cotton growing indigenous to the
country: one with a yellow blossom was so short in the staple as to be worthless, but the other
(a red blossom) produced a fine quality that was detached with extreme ease from the seeds.
A sample of this variety I brought to England, and deposited the seed at the Royal Botanical
Gardens at Kew. A large quantity was reported to be grown at Lira, some of which was brought
me by the chief; this was the inferior kind. I sketched the old chief of Lira, who when in
full dress wore a curious ornament of cowrie shells upon his felt wig that gave him a most
comical appearance, as he looked like the caricature of an English judge. The Turks had extended
their excursions in their search for ivory, and they returned from an expedition sixty miles
east of Shooa, bringing with them two donkeys that they had obtained from the natives. This
was an interesting event, as for nearly two years I had heard from the natives of Latooka,
and from those of Unyoro, that donkeys existed in a country to the east. These animals were
the same in appearance as those of the Soudan; the natives never rode, but simply used them
to transport wood from the forest to their villages; the people were reported as the same in
language and appearance as the Lira tribe.

CHAPTER XVII

THE NATIVES IN MOURNING.

The porters were all engaged to transport the ivory, but I observed that the greater number
were in mourning for either lost friends or cattle, having ropes twisted round their necks
and waists, as marks of sorrow.

About 800 men received payment of cattle in advance; the next day they had all absconded with
their cows, having departed during the night. This was a planned affair to "spoil the Egyptians:"
a combination had been entered into some months before by the Madi and Shooa tribes, to receive
payment and to abscond, but to leave the Turks helpless to remove their stock of ivory. The
people of Mahommed Wat-el-Mek were in a similar dilemma; not a tusk could be delivered at Gondokoro.

This was not my affair. The greater portion of Ibrahim's immense store of ivory had been given
to him by Kamrasi; I had guaranteed him a hundred cantars (10,000 lbs.) should he quit Obbo
and proceed to the unknown south; in addition to a large quantity that he had collected and
delivered at Gondokoro in the past year, he had now more than three times that amount. Although
Kamrasi had on many occasions offered the ivory to me, I had studiously avoided the acceptance
of a single tusk, as I wished the Turks to believe that I would not mix myself up with trade
in any form, and that my expedition had purely the one object that I had explained to Ibrahim
when I first won him over on the road to Ellyria more than two years ago, "the discovery of
the Albert lake." With a certain number of presents of first class forty-guinea rifles and
guns, &c. &c., to Ibrahim, I declared my intention of starting for Gondokoro. My trifling articles
of baggage were packed: a few of the Lira natives were to act as porters, as, although the
ivory could not be transported, it was necessary for Ibrahim to send a strong party to Gondokoro
to procure ammunition and the usual supplies forwarded annually from Khartoum; the Lira people
who carried my luggage would act as return porters.

We had turned our backs fairly upon the south, and we now travelled for several days through
most beautiful park-like lands, crossing twice the Un-y-Ame stream, that rises in the country
between Shooa and Unyoro, and arriving at the point of junction of this river with the Nile,
in latitude 3 degrees 32 minutes N. On the north bank of the Un-y-Ame, about three miles from
the embouchure of that river where it flows into the Nile, the tamarind tree was shown me that
forms the limit of Signor Miani's journey from Gondokoro, the extreme point reached by any
traveller from the north until the date of my expedition. This tree bore the name of "Shedder-el-Sowar"
(the traveller's tree), by which it was known to the traders' parties. Several of the men belonging
to Ibrahim, also Mahommed Wat-el-Mek, the vakeel of Debono's people, had accompanied Signor
Miani on his expedition to this spot. Loggo, the Bari interpreter, who had constantly acted
for me during two years, happened to have been the interpreter of Signor Miani; he confessed
to me how he had been compelled by his master's escort to deceive him, by pretending that a
combined attack was to be made upon them by the natives.

Upon this excuse, Miani's men refused to proceed, and determined to turn back to Gondokoro;
thus ended his expedition. I regarded the tree that marked the limit of his journey with much
sympathy. I remembered how I had formerly contended with similar difficulties, and how heartbreaking
it would have been to have returned, baffled by the misconduct of my own people, when the determination
of my heart urged me forward to the south; thus I appreciated the disappointment that so enterprising
a traveller must have felt in sorrowfully cutting his name upon the tree, and leaving it as
a record of misfortune.

With a just tribute to the perseverance that had carried him farther than any European traveller
had penetrated before him, we continued our route over a most beautiful park of verdant grass,
diversified by splendid tamarind trees, the dark foliage of which afforded harbour for great
numbers of the brilliant yellow-breasted pigeon. We shortly ascended a rocky mountain by a
stony and difficult pass, and upon arrival at the summit, about 800 feet above the Nile, which
lay in front at about two miles' distance, we halted to enjoy the magnificent view. "Hurrah
for the old Nile!" I exclaimed, as I revelled in the scene before me: here it was, fresh from
its great parent, the Albert lake, in all the grandeur of Africa's mightiest river. From our
elevated point we looked down upon a broad sheet of unbroken water, winding through marshy
ground, flowing from W.S.W. The actual breadth of clear water, independent of the marsh and
reedy banks, was about 400 yards, but, as usual in the deep and flat portions of the White
Nile, the great extent of reeds growing in deep water rendered any estimate of the positive
width extremely vague. We could discern the course of this great river for about twenty miles,
and distinctly, trace the line of mountains on the west bank that we had seen at about sixty
miles' distance when on the route from Karuma to Shooa; the commencement of this chain we had
seen when at Magungo, forming the Koshi frontier of the Nile. The country opposite to the point
on which we now stood was Koshi, which, forming the west bank of the Nile, extended the entire
way to the Albert lake. The country that we occupied was Madi, which extended as the east bank
of the Nile to the angle of the Victoria Nile (or Somerset river) junction opposite Magungo.
These two countries, Koshi and Madi, we had seen from Magungo when we had viewed the exit of
the Nile from the lake, as though a tail-like continuation of the water, until lost in the
distance of the interminable valley of high reeds. Having, from Magungo, in lat. 2 degrees
l6 minutes, looked upon the course of the river far to the north, and from the high pass, our
present point, in lat. 3 degrees 34 min. N., we now comprised an extensive view of the river
to the south; the extremities of the limits of view from north and south would almost meet,
and leave a mere trifle of a few miles not actually inspected.

Exactly opposite the summit of the pass from which we now scanned the country, rose the precipitous
mountain known as Gebel Kookoo, which rose to a height of about 2,500 feet above the level
of the Nile, and formed the prominent feature of a chain which bordered the west bank of the
Nile with few breaks to the north, until within thirty miles of Gondokoro. The pass upon which
we stood was the southern extremity of a range of high rocky hills that formed the east cliff
of the Nile; thus the broad and noble stream that arrived from the Albert lake in a sheet of
unbroken water received the Un-y-Ame river, and then suddenly entered the pass between the
two chains of hills,--Gebel Kookoo on the west, and the ridge that we now occupied upon the
east. The mouth of the Un-y-Ame river was the limit of navigation from the Albert lake. As
far as the eye could reach to the southwest, the country was dead flat and marshy throughout
the course of the river; this appearance proving the correctness of the information I had received
from the natives of Unyoro, and from Kamrasi himself, that the Nile was navigable for some
days' journey from the Albert lake. Precisely the same information had been given to Speke,
and the river level at this point showed by his thermometer so great a difference between that
of Karuma, that he had concluded the fall of 1,000 feet must exist between the foot of Karuma
Falls and the Albert lake; this, as already described, I proved to be 1,275 feet.

It would be impossible to describe the calm enjoyment of the scene from this elevated pass,
from which we confirmed the results of our own labours and of Speke's well-reflected suggestions.
We were now on the track by which he and Gant had returned; but I believe they had rounded
the foot of the hill that we had ascended; the two routes led to the same point, as our course
brought us at right angles with the Nile that flowed beneath us. Descending the pass through
a thorny jungle, we arrived at the river, and turning suddenly to the north, we followed its
course for about a mile, and then bivouacked for the evening. The Nile, having entered the
valley between Gebel Kookoo and the western range, was no longer the calm river that we had
seen to the south: numerous rocky islands blocked its course, and mud-banks covered with papyrus
rush so obstructed the stream that the river widened to about a mile,---this width was composed
of numerous channels, varying in breadth between the obstructing rock and island. Upon one
of the rush-covered islands a herd of elephants was discovered, almost concealed by the height
of the vegetation. As they approached the edge of the water and became exposed, I tried about
twenty shots at them with the Fletcher rifle, sighted to 600 yards, but in no instance could
I either touch or disturb them by the bullets;---this will afford some idea of the width of
the river, the island appearing to be in the middle of the stream.

A short distance below this spot, the Nile rapidly contracted, and at length became a roaring
torrent, passing through a narrow gorge between perpendicular cliffs, with a tremendous current.
In some places the great river was pent up between rocks, which confined it to a width of about
120 yards, through such channels the rush of water was terrific, but to a casual observer approaching
from the north, the volume of the Nile would have been underrated, unless calculated by the
velocity of the stream.

From this point we followed the bank of the Nile over a difficult route, down steep ravines
and up precipitous crags, by a winding path along the foot of the range of syenite hills that
hemmed in the river on the west bank. Several considerable waterfalls added to the grandeur
of the pass, through which for many miles the angry Nile chafed and roared like a lion in its
confined den.

At length we arrived at a steep descent, and dismounting from our oxen after a walk of about
a quarter of a mile over rough stones, we reached the Asua river, about a quarter of a mile
above its junction with the Nile. The bed was rocky; but although the Atabbi had subscribed
its waters above the point where we now crossed, there was merely a trifling stream occupying
about a quarter of the river's bed, with a current of about two and a half miles an hour. Crossing
this on foot, the water in the deepest part reached to the middle of my thighs. The Asua river,
as already described at the time that I crossed it on the route from Farajoke to Shooa, is
a mountain torrent formidable during the rains; quickly flooding and quickly emptying from
its rapid inclination, it is exhausted during the dry season.

The crossing of this river was a signal for extra precaution in the arrangement of our march:
we had entered the territory of the ever hostile Bari tribe; we had been already warned that
we could not pass to Gondokoro without being attacked.

We slept on the road, about seven miles to the north of the Asua. On the following morning
we started. The route led over a fine country parallel with the Nile, that still continued
in a rockbound channel on the west of the march. Throughout the route from the Un-y-Ame junction,
the soil had been wretchedly poor, a mass of rock and decomposed granite forming a sand that
quickly parched during the dry season. The level of the country being about 200 feet above
the Nile, deep gullies cut the route at right angles, forming the natural drains to the river.

In these ravines grew dense thickets of bamboos. Having no native guide, but trusting solely
to the traders' people, who had travelled frequently by this route, we lost the path, and shortly
became entangled amongst the numerous ravines. At length we passed a village, around which
were assembled a number of natives. Having regained the route, we observed the natives appearing
in various directions, and as quickly disappearing only to gather in our front in increased
numbers. Their movements exciting suspicion, in a country where every man was an enemy, our
party closed together;--we threw out an advance guard,--ten men on either flank,--the porters,
ammunition, and effects in the centre; while about ten men brought up the rear. Before us lay
two low rocky hills covered with trees, high grass, and brushwood, in which I distinctly observed
the bright red forms of natives painted according to the custom of the Bari tribe.

We were evidently in for a fight. The path lay in a gorge between the low rocky hills in advance.
My wife dismounted from her ox, and walked at the head of our party with me, Saat following
behind with the gun that he usually carried, while the men drove several riding-oxen in the
centre. Hardly had we entered the pass, when--whizz went an arrow over our heads. This was
the signal for a repeated discharge. The natives ran among the rocks with the agility of monkeys,
and showed a considerable amount of daring in standing within about eighty yards upon the ridge,
and taking steady shots at us with their poisoned arrows. The flanking parties now opened fire,
and what with the bad shooting of both the escort and the native archers, no one was wounded
on either side for the first ten minutes. The rattle of musketry, and the wild appearance of
the naked vermilion-coloured savages, as they leapt along the craggy ridge, twanging their
bows at us with evil but ineffectual intent, was a charming picture of African life and manners.
Fortunately the branches of numerous trees and intervening clumps of bamboo frustrated the
good intentions of the arrows, as they glanced from their aim; and although some fell among
our party, we were as yet unscathed. One of the enemy, who was most probably a chief, distinguished
himself in particular, by advancing to within about fifty yards, and standing on a rock, he
deliberately shot five or six arrows, all of which missed their mark; the men dodged them as
they arrived in their uncertain flight: the speed of the arrows was so inferior, owing to the
stiffness of the bows, that nothing was easier than to evade them. Any halt was unnecessary.
We continued our march through the gorge, the men keeping up an unremitting fire until we entered
upon a tract of high grass and forest; this being perfectly dry, it would have been easy to
set it on fire, as the enemy were to leeward; but although the rustling in the grass betokened
the presence of a great number of men, they were invisible. In a few minutes we emerged in
a clearing, where corn had been planted; this was a favourable position for a decisive attack
upon the natives, who now closed up. Throwing out skirmishers, with orders that they were to
cover themselves behind the trunks of trees, the Baris were driven back. One was now shot through
the body, and fell; but recovering, he ran with his comrades, and fell dead after a few yards.

What casualties had happened during the passage of the gorge I cannot say, but the enemy were
now utterly discomfited. I had not fired a shot, as the whole affair was perfect child's play,
and any one who could shoot would have settled the fortune of the day by half a dozen shots;
but both the traders' people and my men were "shooters, but not hitters." We now bivouacked
on the field for the night.

During the march on the following day, the natives watched us at a distance, following in great
numbers parallel with our route, but fearing to attack. The country was perfectly open, being
a succession of fine downs of low grass, with few trees, where any attack against our guns
would have been madness.

In the evening we arrived at two small deserted villages; these, like most in the Bari country,
were circular, and surrounded by a live and impenetrable fence of euphorbia, having only one
entrance. The traders' people camped in one, while I took up my quarters in the other. The
sun had sunk, and the night being pitch dark, we had a glorious fire, around which we placed
our angareps opposite the narrow entrance of the camp, about ten yards distant. I stationed
Richarn as sentry outside the gateway, as he was the most dependable of my men, and I thought
it extremely probable that we might be attacked during the night: three other sentries I placed
on guard at various stations. Dinner being concluded, Mrs. Baker lay down on her angarep for
the night. I drew the balls from a double No. 10 smooth bore, and loaded with cartridge containing
each twenty large-mould shot (about a hundred to the pound); putting this under my pillow I
went to sleep. Hardly had I begun to rest, when my men woke me, saying that the camp was surrounded
by natives. Upon inquiry I found this to be correct; it was so dark that they could not be
seen without stooping to the ground and looking along the surface. I ordered the sentries not
to fire unless hostilities should commence on the side of the natives, and in no case to draw
trigger without a challenge.

Returning to the angarep I lay down, and not wishing to sleep, I smoked my long Unyoro pipe.
In about ten minutes--bang! went a shot, quickly followed by another from the sentry at the
entrance of the camp. Quietly rising from my bed, I found Richarn reloading at his post. "What
is it, Richarn?" I asked. "They are shooting arrows into the camp, aiming at the fire, in hopes
of hitting you who are sleeping there," said Richarn. "I watched one fellow," he continued,
"as I heard the twang of his bow four times. At each shot I heard an arrow strike the ground
between me and you, therefore I fired at him, and I think he is down. Do you see that black
object lying on the ground?" I saw something a little blacker than the surrounding darkness,
but it could not be distinguished. Leaving Richarn with orders not to move from his post, but
to keep a good look-out until relieved by the next watch, I again went to sleep.

Before break of day, just as the grey dawn slightly improved the darkness, I visited the sentry;
he was at his post, and reported that he thought the archer of the preceding night was dead,
as he had heard a sound proceeding from the dark object on the ground after I had left. In
a few minutes it was sufficiently light to distinguish the body of a roan lying about thirty
paces from the camp entrance. Upon examination, he proved to be a Bari: his bow was in his
hand, and two or three arrows were lying by his side; thirteen mould shot had struck him dead;
one had cut through the bow. We now searched the camp for arrows, and as it became light we
picked up four in various places, some within a few feet of our beds, and all horribly barbed
and poisoned, that the deceased had shot into the camp gateway.

This was the last attack during our journey. We marched well, generally accomplishing fifteen
miles of latitude daily from this point, as the road was good and well known to our guides.
The country was generally poor, but beautifully diversified with large trees, the tamarind
predominating. Passing through the small but thickly-populated and friendly little province
of Moir, in a few days we sighted the well-known mountain Belignan, that we had formerly passed
on its eastern side when we had started on our uncertain path from Gondokoro upwards of two
years ago. The mountain of Belignan was now N.E. from our point of observation.

We had a splendid view of the Ellyria Mountain, and of the distant cone, Gebel el Assul (Honey
Mountain) between Ellyria and Obbo. All these curiously-shaped crags and peaks were well known
to us, and we welcomed them as old friends after a long absence; they had been our companions
in times of doubt and anxiety, when success in our undertaking appeared hopeless. At noon on
the following day, as we were as usual marching parallel with the Nile, the river, having made
a slight bend to the west, swept round, and approached within half a mile of our path; the
small conical mountain, Regiaf, within twelve miles of Gondokoro, was on our left, rising from
the west bank of the river.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE LATEST NEWS FROM KHARTOUM.

The various trading parties were assembled in Gondokoro with a total of about three thousand
slaves; but there was consternation depicted upon every countenance. Only three boats had arrived
from Khartoum--one diahbiah and two noggurs--these belonged to Koorshid Aga. The resume of
news from Khartoum was as follows:--

"Orders had been received by the Egyptian authorities from the European Governments to suppress
the slave-trade. Four steamers had arrived at Khartoum from Cairo. Two of these vessels had
ascended the White Nile, and had captured many slavers; their crews were imprisoned, and had
been subjected to the bastinado and torture;--the captured slaves had been appropriated by
the Egyptian authorities.

"It would be impossible to deliver slaves to the Soudan this season, as an Egyptian regiment
had been stationed in the Shillook country, and steamers were cruising to intercept the boats
from the interior in their descent to Khartoum;--thus the army of slaves then at Gondokoro
would be utterly worthless.

"The plague was raging at Khartoum, and had killed 15,000 people;--many of the boats' crews
had died on their passage from Khartoum to Gondokoro of this disease, which had even broken
out in the station where we then were: people died daily.

"The White Nile was dammed up by a freak of nature, and the crews of thirty vessels had been
occupied five weeks in cutting a ditch through the obstruction, wide enough to admit the passage
of boats."

Such was the intelligence received by the latest arrival from Khartoum. No boats having been
sent for me, I engaged the diahbiah that had arrived for Koorshid's ivory;--this would return
empty, as no ivory could be delivered at Gondokoro. The prospect was pleasant, as many men
had died of the plague on board our vessel during the voyage from Khartoum; thus we should
be subject to a visitation of this fearful complaint as a wind-up to the difficulties we had
passed through during our long exile in Central Africa. I ordered the vessel to be thoroughly
scrubbed with boiling water and sand, after which it was fumigated with several pounds of tobacco,
burnt within the cabin.

Three days were employed in ferrying the slaves across the river in the two noggurs, or barges,
as they must be returned to their respective stations. I rejoiced at the total discomfiture
of the traders, and, observing a cloud of smoke far distant to the north, I spread the alarm
that a steamer was approaching from Khartoum! Such was the consternation of the traders' parties
at the bare idea of such an occurrence that they prepared for immediate flight into the interior,
as they expected to be captured by Government troops sent from Khartoum to suppress the slave-trade.
Profiting by this nervous state of affairs, I induced them to allow the boat to start immediately,
and we concluded all our arrangements, contracting for the diahbiah at 4,000 piastres (40 pounds).
The plague having broken out at Gondokoro, the victims among the natives were dragged to the
edge of the cliff and thrown into the river;--it is impossible to describe the horrible effluvium
produced by the crowds of slaves that had been confined upon the limited area of the station.
At length the happy moment arrived that we were to quit the miserable spot. The boat was ready
to start--we were all on board, and Ibrahim and his people came to say good-bye. It is only
justice to Ibrahim to say, that, although he had been my great enemy when at Gondokoro in 1863,
he had always behaved well since peace was established at Ellyria; and, although by nature
and profession a slave-hunter, like others of the White Nile, he had frequently yielded to
my interference to save the lives of natives who would otherwise have been massacred without pity.

I had gained an extraordinary influence over all these ruffianly people. Everything that I
had promised them had been more than performed; all that I had foretold had been curiously
realized. They now acknowledged how often I had assured them that the slave-trade would be
suppressed by the interference of European powers, and the present ruin of their trade was
the result; they all believed that I was the cause, by having written from Gondokoro to the
Consul-general of Egypt in 1863, when the traders had threatened to drive me back. Far from
retaliating upon me, they were completely cowed. The report had been spread throughout Gondokoro
by Ibrahim and his people that their wonderful success in ivory hunting was chiefly due to
me; that their sick had been cured; that good luck had attended their party; that disaster
had befallen all who had been against me; and that no one had suffered wrong at our hands.
With the resignation of Mahommedans they yielded to their destiny, apparently without any ill-feeling
against us.

Silently and easily we floated down the river; the oars keeping us in midstream. The endless
marshes no longer looked so mournful as we glided rapidly past, and descended the current against
which we had so arduously laboured on our ascent to Gondokoro. As we thus proceeded on our
voyage through the monotonous marshes and vast herds of hippopotami that at this season thronged
the river, I had ample leisure to write my letters for England, to be posted on arrival at
Khartoum, and to look back upon the results of the last few years. The Nile, cleared of its
mystery, resolves itself into comparative simplicity. The actual basin of the Nile is included
between about the 22 degree and 39 degree East longitude, and from 3 degrees South to 13 degrees
North latitude. The drainage of that vast area is monopolized by the Egyptian river. The Victoria
and Albert lakes, the two great equatorial reservoirs, are the recipients of all affluents
south of the Equator; the Albert lake being the grand reservoir in which are concentrated the
entire waters from the south, in addition to tributaries from the Blue Mountains from the north
of the Equator. The Albert N'yanza is the great basin of the Nile: the distinction between
that and the Victoria N'yanza is, that the Victoria is a reservoir receiving the eastern affluents,
and it becomes a starting point or the most elevated SOURCE at the point where the river issues
from it at the Ripon Falls: the Albert is a reservoir not only receiving the western and southern
affluents direct from the Blue Mountains, but it also receives the supply from the Victoria
and from the entire equatorial Nile basin. The Nile as it issues from the Albert N'yanza is
the ENTIRE Nile; prior to its birth from the Albert lake it is NOT the entire Nile. A glance
at the map will at once exemplify the relative value of the two great lakes. The Victoria gathers
all the waters on the eastern side and sheds them into the northern extremity of the Albert:
while the latter, from its character and position, is the direct channel of the Nile that receives
all waters that belong to the equatorial Nile basin. Thus the Victoria is the first SOURCE;
but from the Albert the river issues at once as the great White Nile.

It is not my intention to claim a higher value for my discovery than is justly due, neither
would I diminish in any way the lustre of the achievements of Speke and Grant; it has ever
been my object to confirm and support their discoveries, and to add my voice to the chorus
of praise that they have so justly merited. A great geographical fact has through our joint
labours been most thoroughly established by the discovery of the sources of the Nile. I lay
down upon the map exactly what I saw, and what I gathered from information afforded by the
natives most carefully examined.

My exploration confirms all that was asserted by Speke and Grant: they traced the country from
Zanzibar to the northern watershed of Africa, commencing at about 3 degrees South latitude,
at the southern extremity of the Victoria N'yanza. They subsequently determined the river at
the Ripon Falls flowing from that lake to be the highest source of the Nile. They had a perfect
right to arrive at this conclusion from the data then afforded. They traced the river for a
considerable distance to Karuma Falls, in lat. 2 degrees 15 minutes N.; and they subsequently
met the Nile in lat. 3 degrees 32 minutes N. They had heard that it flowed into the Luta N'zige,
and that it issued from it; thus they were correct in all their investigations, which my discoveries
have confirmed. Their general description of the country was perfect, but not having visited
the lake heard of as the Luta N'zige, they could not possibly have been aware of the vast importance
of that great reservoir in the Nile system. The task of exploring that extraordinary feature
having been accomplished, the geographical question of the sources of the Nile is explained.
Ptolemy had described the Nile sources as emanating from two great lakes that received the
snows of the mountains of Ethiopia. There are many ancient maps existing upon which these lakes
are marked as positive: although there is a wide error in the latitude, the fact remains, that
two great lakes were reported to exist in Equatorial Africa fed by the torrents from lofty
mountains, and that from these reservoirs two streams issued, the conjunction of which formed
the Nile. The general principle was correct, although the detail was wrong. There can be little
doubt that trade had been carried on between the Arabs from the Red Sea and the coast opposite
Zanzibar in ancient times, and that the people engaged in such enterprise had penetrated so
far into the interior as to have obtained a knowledge of the existence of the two reservoirs;
thus may the geographical information originally have been brought into Egypt.

The rainfall to within 3 degrees north of the Equator extends over ten months, commencing in
February and terminating in the end of November. The heaviest rains fall from April till the
end of August; during the latter two months of this season the rivers are at their maximum:
at other times the climate is about as uncertain as that of England; but the rain is of the
heavy character usual in the tropics. Thus the rivers are constant throughout the year, and
the Albert lake continues at a high level, affording a steady volume of water to the Nile.
On the map given to me by Captain Speke he has marked the Victoria Nile below the Ripon Falls
as the Somerset river. As I have made a point of adhering to all native names as given by him
upon that map, I also adhere to the name Somerset river for that portion of the Nile between
the Victoria and the Albert Lakes; this must be understood as Speke's VICTORIA NILE source;
bearing the name of Somerset, no confusion will arise in speaking of the Nile, which would
otherwise be ambiguous, as the same name would apply to two distinct rivers--the one emanating
from the Victoria and flowing into the Albert; the other the entire river Nile as it leaves
the Albert lake. The White Nile, fed as described by the great reservoirs supplied by the rains
of equatorial districts, receives the following tributaries:

From the East bank--The Asua, important from 15th April till 15th November: dry after that date.

From West bank--The Ye, third class; full from 15th April till 15th November.

From West bank--Another small river, third class; full from 15th April till 15th November.

Ditto--The Bahr el Gazal; little or no water supplied by this river.

From East bank--The Sobat, first class; full from June to December.

The Bahr Giraffe I omit, as it is admitted by the natives to be a branch of the White Nile
that leaves the main river at the Aliab country and reunites in lat. 9 degrees 25 minutes between
the Bahr el Gazal and the Sobat. The latter river (Sobat) is the most powerful affluent of
the White Nile, and is probably fed by many tributaries from the Galla country about Kaffa,
in addition to receiving the rivers from the Bari and Latooka countries. I consider that the
Sobat must be supplied by considerable streams from totally distinct countries east and south,
having a rainfall at different seasons, as it is bank-full at the end of December, when the
southern rivers (the Asua, &c.) are extremely low. North from the Sobat, the White Nile has
no other tributaries until it is joined by the Blue Nile at Khartoum, and by its last affluent
the Atbara in lat. 17 degrees 37 minutes. These two great mountain streams flooding suddenly
in the end of June, fed by the rains of Abyssinia, raise the volume of the Nile to an extent
that causes the inundations of Lower Egypt.

The basin of the Nile being thus understood, let us reflect upon the natural resources of the
vast surface of fertile soil that is comprised in that portion of Central Africa. It is difficult
to believe that so magnificent a soil and so enormous an extent of country is destined to remain
for ever in savagedom, and yet it is hard to argue on the possibility of improvement in a portion
of the world inhabited by savages whose happiness consists in idleness or warfare. The advantages
are few, the drawbacks many. The immense distance from the seacoast would render impossible
the transport of any merchandise unless of extreme value, as the expenses would be insupportable.
The natural productions are nil, excepting ivory. The soil being fertile and the climate favourable
to cultivation, all tropical produce would thrive; cotton, coffee, and the sugarcane are indigenous;
but although both climate and soil are favourable, the conditions necessary to successful enterprise
are wanting--the population is scanty, and the material of the very worst; the people vicious
and idle. The climate, although favourable for agriculture, is adverse to the European constitution;
thus colonization would be out of the question. What can be done with so hopeless a prospect?
Where the climate is fatal to Europeans, from whence shall civilization be imported? The heart
of Africa is so completely secluded from the world, and the means of communication are so difficult,
that although fertile, its geographical position debars that vast extent of country from improvement:
thus shut out from civilization it has become an area for unbridled atrocities, as exemplified
in the acts of the ivory traders.

Difficult and almost impossible is the task before the Missionary. The Austrian Mission has
failed, and the stations have been forsaken; their pious labour was hopeless, and the devoted
priests died upon their barren field. What curse lies so heavily upon Africa and bows her down
beneath all other nations? It is the infernal traffic in slaves--a trade so hideous, that the
heart of every slave and owner becomes deformed, and shrinks like a withered limb incapable
of action. The natural love of offspring, shared with the human race by the most savage beast,
ceases to warm the heart of the wretched slave. Why should the mother love her child, if it
is born to become the PROPERTY of her owner?--to be SOLD as soon as it can exist without the
mother's care. Why should the girl be modest, when she knows that she is the actual PROPERTY,
the slave, of every purchaser? Slavery murders the sacred feeling of love, that blessing that
cheers the lot of the poorest man, that spell that binds him to his wife, and child, and home.
Love cannot exist with slavery--the mind becomes brutalized to an extent that freezes all those
tender feelings that Nature has implanted in the human heart to separate it from the beast;
and the mind, despoiled of all noble instincts, descends to hopeless brutality. Thus is Africa
accursed: nor can she be raised to any scale approaching to civilization until the slave-trade
shall be totally suppressed. The first step necessary to the improvement of the savage tribes
of the White Nile is the annihilation of the slave-trade. Until this be effected, no legitimate
commerce can be established; neither is there an opening for missionary enterprise--the country
is sealed and closed against all improvement.

Nothing would be easier than to suppress this infamous traffic, were the European Powers in
earnest. Egypt is in favour of slavery. I have never seen a Government official who did not
in argument uphold slavery as an institution absolutely necessary to Egypt, thus any demonstration
made against the slave-trade by the Government of that country will be simply a pro forma movement
to blind the European Powers. Their eyes thus closed, and the question shelved, the trade will
resume its channel. Were the reports of European consuls supported by their respective Governments,
and were the consuls themselves empowered to seize vessels laden with slaves, and to liberate
gangs of slaves when upon a land journey, that abominable traffic could not exist. The hands
of the European consuls are tied, and jealousies interwoven with the Turkish question act as
a bar to united action on the part of Europe; no Power cares to be the first to disturb the
muddy pool. The Austrian consul at Khartoum, Herr Natterer, told me, in 1862, that he had vainly
reported the atrocities of the slave-trade to his Government--NO REPLY HAD BEEN RECEIVED to
his report. Every European Government KNOWS that the slave-trade is carried on to an immense
extent in Upper Egypt, and that the Red Sea is the great Slave Lake by which these unfortunate
creatures are transported to Arabia and to Suez--but the jealousies concerning Egypt muzzle
each European Power. Should one move, the other would interfere to counteract undue influence
in Egypt. Thus is immunity insured to the villanous actors in the trade. Who can prosecute
a slave trader of the White Nile? What legal evidence can be produced from Central Africa to
secure a conviction in an English Court of Law? The English consul (Mr. Petherick) arrested
a Maltese, the nephew of Debono;--the charge could not be legally supported. Thus are the consuls
fettered, and their acts nullified by the impossibility of producing reliable evidence;--the
facts are patent; but who can prove them legally?

Stop the White Nile trade; prohibit the departure of any vessels from Khartoum for the south,
and let the Egyptian Government grant a concession to a company for the White Nile, subject
to certain conditions, and to a special supervision. (There are already four steamers at Khartoum.)
Establish a military post of 200 men at Gondokoro; an equal number below the Shillook tribe
in 13 degrees latitude, and, with two steamers cruising on the river, not a slave could descend
the White Nile.

Should the slave-trade be suppressed, there will be a good opening for the ivory trade; the
conflicting trading parties being withdrawn, and the interest of the trade exhibited by a single
company, the natives would no longer be able to barter ivory for cattle; thus they would be
forced to accept other goods in exchange. The newly-discovered Albert lake opens the centre
of Africa to navigation. Steamers ascend from Khartoum to Gondokoro in latitude 4 degrees 55'.
Seven days' march south from that station the navigable portion of the Nile is reached, where
vessels can ascend direct to the Albert lake--thus an enormous extent of country is opened
to navigation, and Manchester goods and various other articles would find a ready market in
exchange for ivory, at a prodigious profit, as in those newly-discovered regions ivory has
a merely nominal value. Beyond this commencement of honest trade, I cannot offer a suggestion,
as no produce of the country except ivory could afford the expense of transport to Europe.
IF Africa is to be civilized, it must be effected by commerce, which, once established, will
open the way for missionary labour; but all ideas of commerce, improvement, and the advancement
of the African race that philanthropy could suggest must be discarded until the traffic in
slaves shall have ceased to exist.

Should the slave-trade be suppressed, a field would be opened, the extent of which I will not
attempt to suggest, as the future would depend upon the good government of countries now devoted
to savage anarchy and confusion.

Any Government that would insure security would be the greatest blessing, as the perpetual
hostilities among the various tribes prevent an extension of cultivation. The sower knows not
who will reap, thus he limits his crop to his bare necessities.

The ethnology of Central Africa is completely beyond my depth. The natives not only are ignorant
of writing, but they are without traditions--their thoughts are as entirely engrossed by their
daily wants as those of animals; thus there is no clue to the distant past; history has no
existence. This is much to be deplored, as peculiarities are specific in the type of several
tribes both in physical appearance and in language. The Dinka; Bari; Latooka; Madi; and Unyoro
or Kitwara, are distinct languages on the east of the Nile, comprising an extent of country
from about 12 degrees north to the Equator.

The Makkarika have also a distinct language, and I was informed in Kamrasi's country, that
the Malegga, on the west of the Albert lake, speak a different tongue to that of Kitwara (or
Unyoro)--this may possibly be the same as the Makkarika, of which I have had no experience
by comparison. Accepting the fact of five distinct languages from the Equator to 12 degrees
N. lat., it would appear by analogy that Central Africa is divided into numerous countries
and tribes, distinct from each other in language and physical conformation, whose origin is
perfectly obscure. Whether the man of Central Africa be pre-Adamite is impossible to determine;
but the idea is suggested by the following data. The historical origin of man, or Adam, commences
with a knowledge of God.

Throughout the history of the world from the creation of Adam, God is connected with mankind
in every creed, whether worshipped as the universal sublime Spirit of omnipotence, or shaped
by the forms of idolatry into representations of a deity. From the creation of Adam, mankind
has acknowledged its inferiority, and must bow down and worship either the true God or a graven
image; or something that is in heaven or in earth. The world, as we accept that term, was always
actuated by a natural religious instinct. Cut off from that world, lost in the mysterious distance
that shrouded the origin of the Egyptian Nile, were races unknown, that had never reckoned
in the great sum of history--races that we have brought to light, whose existence had been
hidden from mankind, and that now appear before us like the fossil bones of antediluvian animals.
Are they vestiges of what existed in a pre-Adamite creation?

The geological formation of Central Africa is primitive; showing an altitude above the sea-level
averaging nearly 4,000 feet. This elevated portion of the globe, built up in great part of
granitic sandstone rocks, has never been submerged, nor does it appear to have undergone any
changes, either volcanic or by the action of water. Time, working through countless ages with
the slow but certain instrument of atmospheric influence, has rounded the surface and split
into fragments the granite rocks, leaving a sandy base of disintegrated portions, while in
other cases the mountains show as hard and undecayed a surface as though fresh from Nature's
foundry. Central Africa never having been submerged, the animals and races must be as old,
and may be older, than any upon the earth.

No geological change having occurred in ages long anterior to man, as shown by Sir R. I. Murchison
theoretically so far back as the year 1852, when Central Africa was utterly unknown, it is
natural to suppose that the races that exist upon that surface should be unaltered from their
origin. That origin may date from a period so distant, that it preceded the Adamite creation.
Historic man believes in a Divinity; the tribes of Central Africa know no God. Are they of
our Adamite race? The equatorial portion of Africa at the Nile sources has an average altitude
above the sea-level of about 4,000 feet; this elevated plateau forms the base of a range of
mountains, that I imagine extends, like the vertebrae of an animal, from east to west, shedding
a drainage to the north and south. Should this hypothesis be correct, the southern watershed
would fill the Tanganika lake: while farther to the west another lake, supplied by the southern
drainage, may form the head of the river Congo. On the north a similar system may drain into
the Niger and Lake Tchad: thus the Victoria and the Albert lakes, being the two great reservoirs
or sources of the Nile, may be the first of a system of African equatorial lakes fed by the
northern and southern drainage of the mountain range, and supplying all the principal rivers
of Africa from the great equatorial rainfall. The fact of the centre of Africa at the Nile
sources being about 4,000 feet above the ocean, independently of high mountains rising from
that level, suggests that the drainage of the Equator from the central and elevated portion
must find its way to the lower level and reach the sea. Wherever high mountain ranges exist,
there must also be depressions; those situated in an equatorial rainfall must receive the drainage
from the high lands and become lakes, the overflow of which must form the sources of rivers,
precisely as exemplified in the sources of the Nile from the Victoria and the Albert lakes.

The fact that Sir Roderick Murchison, as a geologist, laid down a theory of the existence of
a chain of lakes upon an elevated plateau in Central Africa, which theory has been now in great
measure confirmed by actual inspection, induces me to quote an extract from his address at
the anniversary meeting of the Royal Geographical Society, 23d May, 1864. In that address,
he expressed opinions upon the geological structure and the races of Central Africa, which
preceded those that I formed when at the Albert lake. It is with intense interest that I have
read the following extract since my return to England:--

"In former addresses, I suggested that the interior mass and central portions of Africa constituting
a great plateau occupied by lakes and marshes from which the waters escaped by cracks or depressions
in the subtending older rocks, had been in that condition during an enormously long period.
I have recently been enabled, through the apposite discovery of Dr. Kirk, the companion of
Livingstone, not only to fortify my conjecture of 1852, but greatly to extend the inferences
concerning the long period of time during which the central parts of Africa have remained in
their present condition, save their degradation by ordinary atmospheric agencies. My view,
as given to this Society in 1852, was mainly founded on the original and admirable geological
researches of Mr. Bain in the colony of the Cape of Good Hope. It was, that, inasmuch as in
the secondary or mesozoic age of geologists, the northern interior of that country was occupied
by great lakes and marshes, as proved by the fossil reptile discovered by Bain, and named Dicynodon
by Owen, such it has remained for countless ages, even up to the present day. The succeeding
journeys into the interior, of Livingstone, Thornton and Kirk, Burton and Speke, and Speke
and Grant, have all tended to strengthen me in the belief that Southern Africa has not undergone
any of those great submarine depressions which have so largely affected Europe, Asia, and America,
during the secondary, tertiary, and quasi modern periods.

"The discovery of Dr. Kirk has confirmed my conclusion. On the banks of an affluent of the
Zambesi, that gentleman collected certain bones, apparently carried down in watery drifts from
inland positions, which remains have been so fossilized as to have all the appearance of antiquity
which fossils of a tertiary or older age usually present. One of these is a portion of the
vertebral column and sacrum of a buffalo, undistinguishable from that of the Cape buffalo;
another is a fragment of a crocodile, and another of a water-tortoise, both undistinguishable
from the forms of those animals now living. Together with these, Dr. Kirk found numerous bones
of antelopes and other animals, which, though in a fossil condition, all belonged, as he assured
me, to species now living in South Africa.

"On the other hand, none of our explorers, including Mr. Bain, who has diligently worked as
a geologist, have detected in the interior any limestones containing marine fossil remains,
which would have proved that South Africa had, like other regions, been depressed into oceanic
conditions, and re-elevated. On the contrary, in addition to old granitic and other igneous
rocks, all explorers find only either innumerable undulations of sandstones, schistose, and
quartzose rocks, or such tufaceous and ferruginous deposits as would naturally occur in countries
long occupied by lakes and exuberant jungles, separated from each other by sandy hills, scarcely
any other calcareous rocks being found except tufas formed by the deposition of landsprings.
It is true that there are marine tertiary formations on the coasts (around the Cape Colony,
near the mouth of the Zambesi opposite Mozambique, and again on the coasts of Mombas opposite
Zanzibar), and that these have been raised up into low-coast ranges, followed by rocks of igneous
origin. But in penetrating into the true interior, the traveller takes a final leave of all
such formations; and in advancing to the heart of the continent, he traverses a vast region
which, to all appearance, has ever been under terrestrial and lacustrine conditions only. Judging,
indeed, from all the evidences as yet collected, the interior of South Africa has remained
in that condition since the period of the secondary rocks of geologists! Yet, whilst none of
our countrymen found any evidences of old marine remains, Captain Speke brought from one of
the ridges which lay between the coast and the lake Victoria N'yanza a fossil shell, which,
though larger in size, is undistinguishable from the Achatina perdix now flourishing in South
Africa. Again, whilst Bain found fossil plants in his reptiliferous strata north of the Cape,
and Livingstone and Thornton discovered coal in sandstone, with fossil plants, like those of
our old coal of Europe and America,--yet both these mesozoic and palaeozoic remains are terrestrial,
and are not associated with marine limestones, indicative of those oscillations of the land
which are so common in other countries.

"It is further to be observed, that the surface of this vast interior is entirely exempt from
the coarse superficial drift that encumbers so many countries, as derived from lofty mountain-chains
from which either glaciers or great torrential streams have descended. In this respect, it
is also equally unlike those plains of Germany, Poland, and Northern Russia, which were sea-bottoms
when floating icebergs melted and dropped the loads of stone which they were transporting from
Scandinavia and Lapland.

"In truth, therefore, the inner portion of Southern Africa is, in this respect, as far as I
know, geologically unique in the long conservation of ancient terrestrial conditions. This
inference is further supported by the concomitant absence, throughout the larger portion of
all this vast area, i.e. south of the Equator, of any of those volcanic rocks which are so
often associated with oscillations of the terra firma  ["Although Kilimandjaro is to a great
extent igneous and volcanic, there is nothing to prove it has been in activity during the historic
era."]

"With the exception of the true volcanic hills of the Cameroons recently described by Burton,
on the west coast, a little to the north of the Equator, and which possibly may advance southwards
towards the Gaboon country, nothing is known of the presence of any similar foci of sub-aerial
eruption all round the coasts of Africa south of the Equator. If the elements for the production
of them had existed, the coast-line is precisely that on which we should expect to find such
volcanic vents, if we judge by the analogy of all volcanic regions where the habitual igneous
eruptions are not distant from the sea, or from great internal masses of water. The absence,
then, both on the coasts and in the interior, of any eruptive rocks which can have been thrown
up under the atmosphere since the period when the tertiary rocks began to be accumulated, is
in concurrence with all the physical data as yet got together. These demonstrate that, although
the geologist finds here none of those characters of lithological structure and curiously diversified
organic remains which enable him to fix the epochs of succession in the crust of the earth
in other quarters of the globe, the interior of South Africa is unquestionably a grand type
of a region which has preserved its ancient terrestrial conditions during a very long period,
unaffected by any changes except those which are dependent on atmospheric and meteoric influences.

"If, then, the lower animals and plants of this vast country have gone on unchanged for a very
long period, may we infer that its human inhabitants are of like antiquity? If so, the Negro
may claim as old a lineage as the Caucasian or Mongolian races. In the absence of any decisive
fact, I forbear, at present, to speculate on this point; but as, amid the fossil specimens
procured by Livingstone and Kirk, there are fragments of pottery made by human hands, we must
wait until some zealous explorer of Southern Africa shall distinctly bring forward proofs that
the manufactured articles are of the same age as the fossil bones. In other words, we still
require from Africa the same proofs of the existence of links which bind together the sciences
of Geology and Archaeology which have recently been developed in Europe. Now, if the unquestioned
works of man should be found to be coeval with the remains of fossilized existing animals in
Southern Africa, the travelled geographer, who has convinced himself of the ancient condition
of its surface, must admit, however unwillingly, that although the black man is of such very
remote antiquity, he has been very stationary in civilization and in attaining the arts of
life, if he be compared with the Caucasian, the Mongolian, the Red Indian of America, or even
with the aborigines of Polynesia." ("The most remarkable proof of the inferiority of the Negro,
when compared with the Asiatic, is, that whilst the latter has domesticated the elephant for
ages, and rendered it highly useful to man, the Negro has only slaughtered the animal to obtain
food or ivory.")

CHAPTER XIX.

THE BLACK ANTELOPE.

We continued our voyage down the Nile, at times scudding along with a fair wind and stream,
when a straight portion of the river allowed our men respite from the oars. This was the termination
of the dry season, in this latitude 7 degrees (end of March);--thus, although the river was
nearly level with the banks, the marshes were tolerably firm, and in the dryer portions the
reeds had been burnt off by the natives. In one of these cleared places we descried a vast
herd of antelopes, numbering several thousands. The males were black, and carried fine horns,
while the females were reddish-brown and without horns. Never having shot this species, I landed
from the boat, which I ordered to wait in a sheltered nook, while, accompanied by the boy Saat
and Richarn, I took the little Fletcher 24 rifle and commenced a stalk.

The antelopes did not evince their usual shyness, and with a tolerable amount of patience I
succeeded in getting within about 120 paces of two splendid black bucks that were separated
from the herd;--a patch of half-burnt reeds afforded a good covering point. The left-hand buck
was in a good position for a shoulder shot, standing with his flank exposed, but with his head
turned towards me. At the crack of the rifle he sprang upon his hind legs,--gave two or three
convulsive bounds, and fell. His companion went off at full speed, and the left-hand barrel
unfortunately broke his hind leg, as the half-burnt reeds hindered a correct aim. Reloading,
while my men bled the dead buck, I fired a long shot at the dense mass of antelopes who were
now in full retreat at about 600 yards' distance crowded together in thousands. I heard, or
fancied I heard, the ball strike some object, and as the herd passed on, a reddish object remained
behind that we could hardly distinguish, but on nearer approach I found a doe lying dead--she
had been by chance struck by the ball through the neck at this great distance. The game being
at full speed in retreat, my sport would have been over had we not at that moment heard shouts
and yells exactly ahead of the vast herd of antelopes. At once they halted, and we perceived
a number of natives, armed with spears and bows, who had intercepted the herd in their retreat,
and who now turned them by their shouts exactly towards us. The herd came on at full speed;
but seeing us, they slightly altered their line, and rushed along, thundering over the ground
almost in single file, thus occupying a continuous line of about half a mile in length. Running
towards them at right angles for about a quarter of a mile, I at length arrived at a white
ant-hill about ten feet high; behind this I took my stand within about seventy yards of the
string of antelopes that were filing by at full gallop. I waited for a buck with fine horns.
Several passed, but I observed better heads in their rear;--they came bounding along. "Crack!"
went the rifle; and a fine buck pitched upon his head. Again the little Fletcher spoke, and
down went another within ten yards of the first. "A spare gun, Richarn!" and Oswell's Purdey
was slipped into my hand. "Only one barrel is loaded," said Richarn. I saw a splendid buck
coming along with a doe by his side;--she protected him from the shot as they came on at right
angles with the gun; but knowing that the ball would go through her and reach him on the other
side, I fired at her shoulder,--she fell dead to the shot, but he went off scatheless. I now
found that Richarn had loaded the gun with twenty mould shot instead of ball;--these were confined
in a cartridge, and had killed her on the spot.

I had thus bagged five antelopes; and, cutting off the heads of the bucks, we left the bodies
for the natives, who were anxiously watching us from a distance, but afraid to approach. The
antelope first shot that was nearer to the boat, we dragged on board, with the assistance of
ten or twelve men. The buck was rather larger than an average donkey;--colour, black, with
a white patch across the withers;--a white crown to the head; white round the eyes; chest black,
but belly white; the horns about two feet four inches long, and bending gracefully backwards.

A few days after this incident we arrived at the junction of the Bahr el Gazal, and turning
sharp to the east, we looked forward to arriving at the extraordinary obstruction that since
our passage in 1863 had dammed the White Nile.

There was considerable danger in the descent of the river upon nearing this peculiar dam, as
the stream plunged below it by a subterranean channel with a rush like a cataract. A large
diahbiah laden with ivory had been carried beneath the dam on her descent from Gondokoro in
the previous year, and had never been seen afterwards. I ordered the reis to have the anchor
in readiness, and two powerful hawsers; should we arrive in the evening, he was to secure the
vessel to the bank, and not to attempt the passage through the canal until the following morning.
We anchored about half a mile above the dam.

This part of the Nile is boundless marsh, portions of which were at this season terra firma.
The river ran from west to east; the south bank was actual ground covered with mimosas, but
to the north and west the flat marsh covered with high weeds was interminable.

At daybreak we manned the oars and floated down the rapid stream. In a few minutes we heard
the rush of water, and we saw the dam stretching across the river before us. The marsh being
firm, our men immediately jumped out on the left bank and manned the hawsers--one fastened
from the stern, the other from the bow; this arrangement prevented the boat from turning broadside
on to the dam, by which accident the shipwrecked diahbiah had been lost. As we approached the
dam, I perceived the canal or ditch that had been cut by the crews of the vessels that had
ascended the river; it was about ten feet wide, and would barely allow the passage of our diahbiah.
This canal was already choked with masses of floating vegetation and natural rafts of reeds
and mud that the river carried with it, the accumulation of which had originally formed the dam.

Having secured the vessel by carrying out an anchor astern and burying it on the marsh, while
a rope fastened from the bow to the high reeds kept her stern to the stream, all hands jumped
into the canal and commenced dragging out the entangled masses of weeds, reeds, ambatch wood,
grass, and mud that had choked the entrance. Half a day was thus passed, at the expiration
of which time we towed our vessel safely into the ditch, where she lay out of danger. It was
necessary to discharge all cargo from the boat, in order to reduce her draught of water. This
tedious operation completed, and many bushels of corn being piled upon mats spread upon the
reeds beaten flat, we endeavoured to push her along the canal. Although the obstruction was
annoying it was a most interesting object.

We arrived at Fashoder, in the Shillook country, where the Egyptian Government had formed a
camp of a thousand men to take possession of the country. We were well received and hospitably
entertained by Osman Bey, to whom our thanks are due for the first civilized reception after
years of savagedom. At Fashoder we procured lentils, rice, and dates, which were to us great
luxuries, and would be a blessing to the plague-smitten boy, as we could now make some soup.
Goats we had purchased in the Shir country for molotes (iron hoes) that we had received in
exchange for corn at Gondokoro from Koorshid's agent who was responsible for the supply I had
left in depot. We left Fashoder, and continued our voyage towards Khartoum. Two faithful followers
we had buried,--Johann Schmidt at the commencement of the voyage, and Saat at its termination.

A few miles from this spot, a head wind delayed us for several days.  Losing patience, I engaged
camels from the Arabs; and riding the whole day, we reached Khartoum about half an hour after
sunset on the 5th of May, 1865.  This being the close of the expedition, I wish it to be distinctly
understood how thoroughly I support the credit of Speke and Grant for their discovery of the
first and most elevated source of the Nile in the great Victoria N'yanza.

Although I call the river between the two lakes the "Somerset," as it was named by Speke upon
the map he gave to me, I must repeat that it is positively the Victoria Nile, and the name
"Somerset" is only used to distinguish it, in my description, from the entire Nile that issues
from the Albert N'yanza.

Whether the volume of water added by the latter lake be greater than that supplied by the Victoria,
the fact remains unaltered: the Victoria is the highest and first-discovered source; the Albert
is the second source, but the ENTIRE RESERVOIR of the Nile waters. I use the term SOURCE as
applying to each reservoir as a head or main starting-point of the river. I am quite aware
that it is a debated point among geographers, whether a lake can be called a SOURCE, as it
owes its origin to one or many rivers; but, as the innumerable torrents of the mountainous
regions of Central Africa pour into these great reservoirs, it would be impossible to give
preference to any individual stream. Such a theory would become a source of great confusion,
and the Nile sources might remain forever undecided; a thousand future travellers might return,
each with his particular source in his portfolio, some stream of insignificant magnitude being
pushed forward as the true origin of the Nile.

I found few letters awaiting me at Khartoum: all the European population of the place had long
ago given us up for lost. It was my wish to start without delay direct for England, but there
were extraordinary difficulties in this wretched country of the Soudan. A drought of two years
had created a famine throughout the land, attended by a cattle and camel plague, that had destroyed
so many camels that all commerce was stagnated. No merchandise could be transported from Khartoum;
thus no purchases could be made by the traders in the interior: the country, always wretched,
was ruined. The plague, or a malignant typhus, had run riot in Khartoum: out of 4,000 black
troops, only a remnant below 400 remained alive!

This frightful malady, that had visited our boat, had revelled in the filth and crowded alleys
of the Soudan capital.

The Blue Nile was so low that even the noggurs drawing three feet of water could not descend
the river. Thus, the camels being dead, and the river impassable, no corn could be brought
from Sennaar and Watmedene: there was a famine in Khartoum--neither fodder for animals, nor
food for man. Being unable to procure either camels or boats, I was compelled to wait at Khartoum
until the Nile should rise sufficiently to enable us to pass the cataracts between that town
and Berber. [The want of water in the Blue Nile, as here described, exemplifies the theory
that Lower Egypt owes its existence during the greater portion of the year entirely to the
volume of the White Nile.]

We remained two months at Khartoum.  During this time we were subjected to intense heat and
constant dust-storms, attended with a general plague of boils. Verily, the plagues of Egypt
remain to this day in the Soudan. On the 26th June, we had the most extraordinary dust-storm
that had ever been seen by the inhabitants. I was sitting in the courtyard of my agent's house
at about 4:30 P.M.: there was no wind, and the sun was as bright as usual in this cloudless
sky, when suddenly a gloom was cast over all,--a dull yellow glare pervaded the atmosphere.
Knowing that this effect portended a dust-storm, and that the present calm would be followed
by a hurricane of wind, I rose to go home, intending to secure the shutters. Hardly had I risen,
when I saw approaching, from the S.W. apparently, a solid range of immense brown mountains,
high in air. So rapid was the passage of this extraordinary phenomenon, that in a few minutes
we were in actual pitchy darkness. At first there was no wind, and the peculiar calm gave an
oppressive character to the event. We were in "a darkness that might be felt." Suddenly the
wind arrived, but not with the violence that I had expected. There were two persons with me,
Michael Latfalla, my agent, and Monsieur Lombrosio. So intense was the darkness, that we tried
to distinguish our hands placed close before our eyes;--not even an outline could be seen.
This lasted for upwards of twenty minutes: it then rapidly passed away, and the sun shone as
before; but we had FELT the darkness that Moses had inflicted upon the Egyptians.

The Egyptian Government had, it appeared, been pressed by some of the European Powers to take
measures for the suppression of the slave-trade: a steamer had accordingly been ordered to
capture all vessels laden with this in famous cargo. Two vessels had been seized and brought
to Khartoum, containing 850 human beings!--packed together like anchovies, the living and the
dying festering together, and the dead lying beneath them. European eye-witnesses assured me
that the disembarking of this frightful cargo could not be adequately described. The slaves
were in a state of starvation, having had nothing to eat for several days. They were landed
in Khartoum; the dead and many of the dying were tied by the ankles, and dragged along the
ground by donkeys through the streets. The most malignant typhus, or plague, had been engendered
among this mass of filth and misery, thus closely packed together. Upon landing, the women
were divided by the Egyptian authorities among the soldiers. These creatures brought the plague
to Khartoum, which, like a curse visited upon this country of slavery and abomination, spread
like a fire throughout the town, and consumed the regiments that had received this horrible
legacy from the dying cargo of slaves. Among others captured by the authorities on a charge
of slave-trading was an Austrian subject, who was then in the custody of the consul. A French
gentleman, Monsieur Garnier, had been sent to Khartoum by the French Consulate of Alexandria
on a special inquiry into the slave-trade; he was devoting himself to the subject with much energy.

This affair over--all my accounts paid--and my men dismissed with their hands full of money,--I
was ready to start for Egypt. The Nile rose sufficiently to enable the passage of the cataracts,
and on the 30th June we took leave of all friends in Khartoum, and of my very kind agent, Michael
Latfalla, well known as Hallil el Shami, who had most generously cashed all my bills on Cairo
without charging a fraction of exchange. On the morning of 1st July, we sailed from Khartoum
to Berber.

On approaching the fine basalt hills through which the river passes during its course from
Khartoum, I was surprised to see the great Nile contracted to a trifling width of from eighty
to a hundred and twenty yards. Walled by high cliffs of basalt upon either side, the vast volume
of the Nile flows grandly through this romantic pass, the water boiling up in curling eddies,
showing that rocky obstructions exist in its profound depths below.

Our voyage was very nearly terminated at the passage of the cataracts. Many skeletons of wrecked
vessels lay upon the rocks in various places: as we were flying along in full sail before a
heavy gale of wind, descending a cataract, we struck upon a sandbank--fortunately not upon
a rock, or we should have gone to pieces like a glass bottle. The tremendous force of the stream,
running at the rate of about ten or twelve miles per hour, immediately drove the vessel broadside
upon the bank. About sixty yards below us was a ridge of rocks, upon which it appeared certain
that we must be driven should we quit the bank upon which we were stranded. The reis and crew,
as usual in such cases, lost their heads. I emptied a large waterproof portmanteau, and tied
it together with ropes, so as to form a life-buoy for my wife and Richarn, neither of whom
could swim; the maps, journals, and observations, I packed in an iron box, which I fastened
with a tow-line to the portmanteau. It appeared that we were to wind up the expedition with
shipwreck, and thus lose my entire collection of hunting spoils. Having completed the preparations
for escape, I took command of the vessel, and silenced the chattering crew.

My first order was to lay out an anchor up stream.

This was done: the water was shallow, and the great weight of the anchor, carried on the shoulders
of two men, enabled them to resist the current, and to wade hip-deep about forty yards up the
stream upon the sandbank.

Thus secured, I ordered the crew to haul upon the cable. The great force of the current bearing
upon the broadside of the vessel, while her head was anchored up stream, bore her gradually
round. All hands were now employed in clearing away the sand, and deepening a passage: loosen
ing the sand with their hands and feet, the powerful rapids carried it away. For five hours
we remained in this position, the boat cracking, and half filled with water however, we stopped
the leak caused by the strain upon her timbers, and having, after much labour, cleared a channel
in the narrow sandbank, the moment arrived to slip the cable, hoist the sail, and trust to
the heavy gale of wind from the west to clear the rocks, that lay within a few yards of us
to the north. "Let go!" and, all being prepared, the sail was loosened, and filling in the
strong gale with a loud report, the head of the vessel swung round with the force of wind and
stream. Away we flew! For an instant we grated on some hard substance: we stood upon the deck,
watching the rocks exactly before us, with the rapids roaring loudly around our boat as she
rushed upon what looked like certain destruction. Another moment, and we passed within a few
inches of the rocks within the boiling surf. Hurrah! we are all right! We swept by the danger,
and flew along the rapids, hurrying towards Old England.

We arrived at Berber, the spot from which we had started upwards of four years ago for our
Atbara expedition. Here we were most hospitably received by Monsieur and Madame Laffargue,
a French gentleman and his charming wife, who had for many years been residents in the Soudan.
It is with feelings of gratitude that I express my thanks to all Frenchmen that I have met
in those wild countries, for courtesies and attention, that were appreciated by me like unexpected
flowers in a desert. I can only hope that Frenchmen may, when in need, receive the same kindness
from my countrymen, when travelling in lands far distant from LA BELLE FRANCE.

This route from Berber is not the usual caravan road: the country was in rather a disturbed
state, owing to the mutiny of all the black troops in the Egyptian service in the Taka province;
and the Hadendowa Arabs, who are at no time the best of their race, were very excited. The
first eight days' journey are devoid of water, except at two stations, the route being desert.
Our party consisted of my wife, Richarn, Achmet, and Zeneb; the latter was a six-foot girl
of the Dinka tribe, with whom Richarn had fallen in love and married during our sojourn at
Khartoum.

Zeneb was a good girl, rather pretty, as strong as a giraffe, and a good cook; a very valuable
acquisition for Richarn. Her husband, who had been my faithful follower, was now a rich man,
being the owner of thirty napoleons, the balance of his wages. Achmet was an Egyptian servant,
whom I had recently engaged in Khartoum. I had also offered a Swiss missionary the protection
of our party.

One day, during the heat of noon, after a long march in the burning sun through a treeless
desert, we descried a solitary tree in the distance, to which we hurried as to a friend. Upon
arrival, we found its shade occupied by a number of Hadendowa Arabs. Dismounting from our camels,
we requested them to move and to give place for our party--as a tree upon the desert is like
a well of water, to be shared by every traveller. Far from giving the desired place, they most
insolently refused to allow us to share the tree. Upon Richarn attempting to take possession,
he was rudely pushed on one side, and an Arab drew his knife. Achmet had a coorbatch (hippopotamus
whip) in his hand, that he had used on his camel; the act of raising this to threaten the Arab
who had drawn his knife was the signal for hostilities. Out flashed the broadswords from their
sheaths! and the headman of the party aimed a well-intended cut at my head. Parrying the cut
with my sun umbrella, I returned with a quick thrust directly in the mouth, the point of the
peaceful weapon penetrating to his throat with such force that he fell upon his back. Almost
at the same moment I had to parry another cut from one of the crowd that smashed my umbrella
completely, and left me with my remaining weapons, a stout Turkish pipe-stick about four feet
long, and my fist. Parrying with the stick, thrusting in return at the face, and hitting sharp
with the left hand, I managed to keep three or four of the party on and off upon their backs,
receiving a slight cut with a sword upon my left arm in countering a blow which just grazed
me as I knocked down the owner, and disarmed him. My wife picked up the sword, as I had no
time to stoop, and she stood well at bay with her newly-acquired weapon that a disarmed Arab
wished to wrest from her, but dared not close with the naked blade. I had had the fight all
my own way, as, being beneath the tree (the boughs of which were very near the ground), the
Arabs, who do not understand the use of the point, were unable to use their swords, as their
intended cuts were intercepted by the branches. Vigorous thrusting and straight hitting cleared
the tree, and the party were scattered right and left, followed up by Richarn and Achmet, armed
with double-barrelled rifles. I was determined to disarm the whole party, if possible. One
of the Arabs, armed with a lance, rushed up to attack Richarn from behind; but Zeneb was of
the warlike Dinka tribe, and having armed herself with the hard wood handle of the axe, she
went into the row like "Joan of Arc," and hastening to the rescue of Richarn, she gave the
Arab such a whack upon the head that she knocked him down on the spot, and seizing his lance
she disarmed him. Thus armed, she rushed into the thickest of the fray.

"Bravo, Zeneb!" I could not help shouting. Seizing a thick. stick that had been dropped by
one of the Arabs, I called Richarn and our little party together, and attacking the few Arabs
who still offered resistance, they were immediately knocked down and disarmed. The leader of
the party, who had been the first to draw his sword and had received a mouthful of umbrella,
had not moved from the spot where he fell, but amused himself with coughing and spitting. I
now ordered him to be bound, and threatened to tie him to my camel's tail and lead him a prisoner
to the Governor of Souakim, unless he called all those of his party who had run away. They
were now standing at a distance in the desert, and I insisted upon the delivery of their weapons.
Being thoroughly beaten and cowed, he conferred with those whom we had taken prisoners, and
the affair ended by all the arms being delivered up. We counted six swords, eleven lances,
and a heap of knives, the number of which I forget.

I ordered the entire party to stand in a line; and I gave them their choice, whether the ringleaders
would receive a flogging from me, or whether I should tie them to the tails of camels and lead
them to the Turkish Governor of Souakim? They immediately chose the former; and, calling them
from the rank, I ordered them to lie down on the ground to receive punishment.

They submitted like dogs; Richarn and Achmet stood over them with their whips, ready for the
word. At this moment an old white-headed Arab of my caravan came to me: kneeling down, he stroked
my beard with his dirty hands, and implored pardon for the offenders. Thoroughly understanding
the Arab character, I replied, "They are miserable sons of dogs, and their swords are like
the feathers of a fowl; they deserve flogging, but when a white head asks for pardon, it should
be granted. God is merciful, and we are all his children." Thus was the affair ended to the
satisfaction of our side. I broke all the lances into fragments upon a rock,--ordered Zeneb
to make a fire with the wood of the handles, to boil some coffee; and tying the swords into
a bundle, we packed the lance-heads and knives in a basket, with the understanding that they
should be delivered to their owners on our arrival at the last well, after which point there
would be water on the route every day. From that place, there would be no fear of our camels
being stolen, and of our being deserted in the desert.

On arrival at the well a few days later, I delivered the weapons to their owners as promised,
they having followed our party. Souakim is about 275 miles from the Nile at Berber. At Kokreb,
about half-way, we entered the chain of mountains that extends from Suez parallel with the
Red Sea to the south; many portions of this chain are four or five thousand feet above the
sea-level. The mountains were exceedingly beautiful, their precipitous sides of barren rock
exhibiting superb strata of red and grey granite, with vast masses of exquisite red and green
porphyry. Many hills were of basalt, so black, that during an entire day's journey the face
of the country appeared like a vast desert of coal, in broken hills and blocks strewed over
the surface of the ground. Kokreb was a lovely oasis beneath the high mountains, with a forest
of low mimosas in full leaf, and a stream running from the mountains, the produce of a recent
storm. Throughout this country there are no rivers that should be noticed on a map, as the
torrents are merely the effects of violent storms, which, falling upon the mountains several
times during the rainy season from June to the end of August tear their boisterous way along
their stony course and dry up in a few hours, becoming exhausted in the sand of the deserts.
For some days our course lay along a deep ravine between stupendous cliffs; this was the bed
of a torrent, that, after heavy storms, flowed through the mountains, inclining to the east;
in this were pools of most beautifully clear water. In many places the nooks among the cliffs
were fringed with lovely green trees. It was extraordinary to observe the activity of the camels
in climbing the most difficult passes, and in picking their way among the rocks and stones
that obstructed the route. In many places camels might be seen grazing upon the green mimosa
bushes, that growing among the rocks high upon the mountains had tempted the animals into places
that I should not have believed they could have reached.

After a journey of twenty-four days from the Nile at Berber, we emerged from the mountain-pass,
and from the elevated embouchure we obtained a sudden and most welcome view of the Red Sea.
We now quickly descended: the heat increased every hour; and after a long day's march, we slept
within a few miles of Souakim. On the following morning we entered the town.

Souakim is a considerable town; the houses are all built of coral. The principal dwellings,
and the custom house and Government offices are situated on an island in the harbour. We were
received with much attention by the Governor, Moomtazze Bey, who very kindly offered us a house.
The heat was frightful, the thermometer 115 degrees F and in some houses 120 degrees F.

There is no doubt that Souakim should be the port for all exports and imports for the Soudan
provinces. Were a line of steamers established from Suez, to call regularly at Souakim, at
a moderate freight, it would become a most prosperous town, as the geographical position marks
it as the nucleus for all trade with the interior. At present there is no regularity: the only
steamers that touch at Souakim are those belonging to the Abdul Azziz Company, who trade between
Suez and Jedda. Although advertised for distinct periods, they only visit Souakim when they
think proper, and their rates are most exorbitant. The General Giaffer Pasha, and Mustapha
Bey the captain of the frigate, gave us an entertainment on board in English style, in honour
of the completion of the Nile discovery. Giaffer Pasha most kindly placed the frigate at our
disposal to convey us to Suez, and both he and Mustapha Bey endeavoured in every way to accommodate
us. For their extreme courtesy I take this opportunity of making my acknowledgment. The spacious
inner court was arranged as an open conservatory; in this was a bar for refreshments, and "Allsopp's
Pale Ale" on draught, with an ice accompaniment. What an Elysium! The beds had SHEETS and PILLOW-CASES!
neither of which had I possessed for years.

APPENDIX

    COMPUTATION OF MR. BAKER'S OBSERVATIONS.
    HEIGHTS OF STATIONS ABOVE THE MEAN LEVEL OF THE SEA DETERMINED
    BY BOILING-WATER OBSERVATIONS BY S. W. BAKER, Esq.
    COMPUTED BY E. DUNKIN, Esq. OF GREENWICH OBSERVATORY.          Feet.

    Tarrangolle. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
    Obbo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3480
    Shoggo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3770
    Asua River . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2619
    Shooa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3619
    Rionga's Island  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3685
    Karuma, below falls  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3737
    Karuma, south of falls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3796
    South of Karuma, at river level. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3794
    M'rooli, river level, junction of Kafoor . . . . . . . . . . . 3796
    West of M'rooli, on road to Albert lake  . . . . . . . . . . . 4291
    Land above lake, east cliff . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 4117
    Albert N'yanza, lake level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448
    Shooa Moru, island of Patooan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2918
    Gondokoro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 1636

The above heights will be found to differ considerably from those given by Mr. Baker in his
letter written from Khartoum in May, 1865, and published in the TIMES newspaper in June. This
arises from Mr. Baker having corrected his observations, whilst in the interior of Africa,
from what have since proved erroneous data: the above are the correct computations of the same
observations.

REMARKS ON THE THERMOMETER B. W. USED BY MR. S. W. BAKER IN DETERMINING HEIGHTS. By Staff-Commander
C. George, Curator of Maps, Royal Geographical Society.

This thermometer was one of the three supplied by the Royal Geographical Society to Consul
Petherick, in 1861, and was made by Mr. Casella.

At Gondokoro, in March, 1862, it was lent to Mr. Baker, who made all his observations with
it, and brought it back safe: it has, therefore, been in use about 4 and 3/4 years.

On November 9th, 1865, Mr. Baker returned it to the Royal Geographical Society, and it was
immediately taken to Mr. Casella, who tested its accuracy by trying its boiling-point, in nearly
the same manner as Mr. Baker had made his observations. The result by two independent observers
was that the boiling-point had increased in its reading by 0 degree point 75 in 4 and 3/4 years,
or 0 degree point 172 yearly.

On November 23d the thermometer was again tested by Mr. Baker at the Kew Observatory. The observation
was made under the same conditions as those near the Albert N'yanza, as nearly as it was possible
to make it. (By immersion in boiling water.) The result gave the thermometer 0 degree point
80 too much at the boiling-point.

The readings of the thermometer have, therefore, been TOO MUCH; and by REDUCING the readings,
it ELEVATES all positions at which observations were made.

Table No. 1.--In this Table the error obtained at Kew Observatory has been treated like that
of a chronometer, the error being assumed increasing and regular.

Table No. 2 is to correct the height, computed by Mr. Dunkin, using the quantity taken from
Table No. 1.

Table No. 3 is the final result of the observations for height, corrected for instrumental error.

TABLE No. 1.

Table for Increased Reading of Thermometer, using 0 degrees 80 as the  Result of Observations
for its Error.

    Month.           1861.  1862.   1863.   1864.   1865.
    January. . .       --  0'143   0'314   0'487   0'659
    February . .       --   '157    '328    '501    '673
    March . . .     0'000   '172    '344    '516    '688
    April . . .      '014   '186    '358    '530    '702
    May . . . .      '028   '200    '372    '544    '716
    June . . . .     '043   '214    '387    '559    '730
    July . . . .     '057   '228    '401    '573    '744
    August . . .     '071   '243    '415    '587    '758
    September . .    '086   '257    '430    '602    '772
    October . , .    '100   '271    '444    '616    '786
    November . .     '114   '285    '458    '630   0'800
    December . .    0'129  0'300   0'473   0'645      --

TABLE No. 2.

At the elevation of 3,500 feet, 1 Degrees equals about 520 feet, from which the following--

    Degrees    Feet.  Degrees  Feet   Degrees  Feet.
     1'0 . . . 520    '7 . . . 364    '3  . . . 156
      '9 . . . 468    '6 . . . 312    '25 . . . 130
      '8 . . . 416    '5 . . . 260    '2  . . . 104
      '75. . . 390    '4 . . . 208    '1  . . .  52

