Theodora heard the opinion generally entertained with a feeling of horror. In vain she cast
herself at the feet of the queen, and there implored the royal clemency with all the fervid
eloquence of grief; Isabella received her with tenderness, but allowed the wretched girl no
room for hope: Theodora's feelings were wrought to the wildest paroxysm of anguish. She flung
herself violently on the ground, and in all the poignancy of her affliction, prayed, fervently
prayed for the life of her husband, the mere life, though by incurring banishment, she might
be doomed to see him no more; the tears of the unfortunate bride fell profusely; her hands
were franticly clasped, and trembled in the intensity of her emotion. It was a picture of distress
unutterable. The queen beheld it with compassion--she was astonished at the sight of such affliction
in one so injured as Theodora, but she could not remove her sorrows without a partiality in
the administration of justice, which it had been the pride of her life to avoid.

Evidently distressed, she kindly bade Theodora rise, but with noble dignity she pronounced
those memorable words:--

"As a woman, I might forgive a treason against love; as a queen, I can never forget one committed
against my country."

The wretched Theodora was then ordered to retire, but she was unable to obey the mandate. She
clung earnestly to the foot of the throne, fondly imagining that as long as she retained sight
of Isabella, she could not lose every hope. Again she was invited to withdraw, the queen humanely
wishing to spare her feelings another unnecessary shock, but the object of her solicitude was
not conscious of the kindness of her motive. An officer of the governor now entering, proceeded
to deliver a roll of paper into the hands of the queen. Isabella appeared suddenly agitated
as she received the scroll, whilst a ray of horrible light glancing across the mind of the
wretched supplicant--

"Oh, in mercy do not sign"--she franticly exclaimed. "In the name of heaven! not yet--do not sign!"

It was too late--the decree which condemned Gomez Arias was signed, and his unfortunate wife
fell senseless to the ground.

In this melancholy state she was carried to her father, who, far from being able to afford
consolation, was himself a prey to the bitterest woe.

Gloomily the day wore away, and the inhabitants of Granada beheld with horror the high scaffold
which was already prepared at the Plaza de Bivarrambla. An universal mourning seemed to prevail
throughout the city. Every one felt interested and shocked at the approaching execution, though
no one dared to impugn the justice of the sentence, by virtue of which the noble culprit was
about to suffer.

After the condemnation of Gomez Arias, a strong guard was placed at the mansion of Count de
Tendilla, where he had been confined. He was treated with the utmost deference and regard,
the queen having particularly commanded that every attention should be lavished on him; and
indeed, until his death warrant was signed, the prisoner had been permitted a free intercourse
with his friends and relatives. Thus his prison bore rather the resemblance of a levee of a
person in power, than the visits of despairing friends to one in the last stage of mortality.
All his friends and companions in arms had been assiduous in these mournful visits, and he
appeared greatly pleased with this testimony of their regard. Indeed it was his pride which
had brought Gomez Arias into this dreadful predicament, and he was thus highly gratified at
the very general interest exhibited in his behalf.

It might be easily seen that he had not yet lost every hope; for to him it seemed impossible
that the queen could ever be prevailed on to give her sanction to the sentence. He fondly recalled
to his mind the high favor in which he had hitherto been held by Isabella--the different tokens
of regard received from her royal hand--the many interviews and even familiar conversations
with which he had been honored. To these pleasing recollections he added the intercessions
of so many powerful advocates, all eager to solicit the royal clemency in his behalf. Thus,
every thing conspired to buoy up the spirits of the prisoner, and to prolong an illusion from
which he was soon to be rudely awakened. He was conversing in a tranquil, nay, lively manner,
with two or three friends, when Count de Tendilla, followed by the official attendants, entered,
and in a sad melancholy tone--

"Don Lope," he said, "I deeply lament the necessity to which I am reduced, of being the messenger
of woeful tidings; but part of the pain I feel in such a disagreeable duty, is removed when
I have to communicate it to such as Gomez Arias, who have fortitude and courage to know how
to sustain misfortune."

"Proceed, Count," answered Don Lope, with a bitter smile, "let me know the worst, and I dare
say I shall have that fortitude which you kindly suppose me--"

"Don Lope," solemnly said the Count, "your sentence is confirmed, and you must prepare for death."

"Death!" exclaimed Gomez Arias, with emotion, "death!" Then suddenly composing himself, he
continued in an indignant tone:--"Well, I must confess that I am somewhat struck with your
information, Count. Certainly, I was not prepared for so much--banishment and confiscation,
I could have expected, but I see that I have most erroneously calculated on the favor of our
Queen--her generosity, indeed, surpasses my most sanguine ideas."

Count de Tendilla, without seeming to understand this innuendo, proceeded--

"In consideration of your services, Don Lope, the Queen is willing to grant any request you
may wish to make. It shall be most religiously observed."

"I am greatly beholden to the Queen," replied Gomez Arias, in the same bitter manner, "but
upon my honor, I am already too much indebted to her Highness, and I should be loath to trespass
on her indulgence."

"Don Lope," cried Tendilla, with warmth, "you wrong the Queen. At this very moment she deplores
the necessity which compels her to sign your death warrant. Had there been any means, any honorable
method to save you from your fate, she would eagerly have seized the opportunity. She would
willingly forfeit the greatest treasure of her kingdom to save your life.--Yes, for your existence
she would sacrifice all--all but her duty."

"And when," demanded Gomez Arias, "is this sentence to be carried into effect?"

"To-morrow;" replied the governor, "but should you like to profit by the favor, a respite of
two days is granted."

"No," proudly returned Gomez Arias, "I should feel exceedingly mortified to disappoint the
expectations of the public, who, no doubt, are by this time anxiously looking for the preparations
of the approaching spectacle: no, let the ceremony take place to-morrow; I am ready." Then,
turning to young Garcilaso, who had been his companion in the expedition against Mohabed--

"My young friend," he said, "you are a gallant and most promising soldier, but be careful how
you use the favors of the ladies; for not all your services rendered to a queen will compensate
the most trivial disregard offered to the woman; and above all, be cautious how you meddle
with rings."

Count de Tendilla did not think proper to resent these remarks, for the present situation of
Gomez Arias precluded the propriety of replying to the imprudent effusion of his irritated
feelings.

"Don Lope," resumed the governor, "I will place your person under no unnecessary restraint,
but you must pardon the disagreeable necessity to which my responsibility reduces me of stationing
a guard within your apartment."

"The presence of soldiers, Count," replied Don Lope, "was never unpleasant to Gomez Arias;
on the contrary, I shall feel particularly gratified; they will, perhaps, tend to dispel the
cloud that hangs over my mind by recalling to memory my former glory; besides, they will acquire
a new stimulus to serve their Queen by witnessing the encouraging reward she has in store for
her servants."

He now folded his arms and began to pace the room with an affected indifference, but his inward
feelings baffled even the powers of his superior mind. No man can feel calm and indifferent
under such circumstances; it is against the principles of his nature; pride and a due sense
of honorable feeling may help him to assume a dignified composure, or ferocity and callousness
may adopt an insolent demeanor or a gloomy tranquillity; but real philosophic evenness of mind
exists more in theory than in practice. Nevertheless Gomez Arias manifested no symptoms of
weak regret, and his exclamations bespoke more his resentment against the queen than the dread
of relinquishing life in the midst of a brilliant career. He now seemed to be absorbed in thought
and the governor prepared to take his leave, when--

"Stay," he cried, "upon better reflection, perhaps it will be more respectful not to refuse
the kind offer of my sovereign; I shall therefore make one request."

"Name it," said Tendilla, kindly; "it shall be granted."

"It is," resumed Don Lope, "that upon my way to the scaffold I may be allowed to head a party
of my own gallant soldiers, mounted on my charger and attended with all military honors."

Count de Tendilla gave an involuntary start at so strange a demand, and looked steadfastly
on Gomez Arias, as if doubting whether compliance might not be attended with danger. The request
might involve the secret of some desperate act, or perhaps only bespoke the workings of a noble
pride. However, the governor considered himself justified in granting the favor.

"Your wish shall be fulfilled," he said. "Whatever may be the feeling that prompts you, Don
Lope, to make such a request, I and my own guard will likewise accompany you."

He delivered these words with great significancy of tone and manner, that Gomez Arias might
be sure the governor was prepared, should there be aught in contemplation that might affect
the public tranquillity.

"And now," resumed Tendilla, "I must bring you a visitor, Don Lope; one who earnestly wishes
to take a last farewell."

"And who is that charitable being?" inquired Gomez Arias, carelessly; "for if I mistake not,
all my friends and relatives have already fulfilled that duty."

"It is your lady," replied Tendilla, "the lovely and unfortunate Theodora."

Gomez Arias made a sign of impatient displeasure, and then, in a cold and constrained manner--

"I am sensible," he said, "of her kindness and self-devotion, but I cannot consent; no, I cannot,
I will not see her; and I earnestly pray and hope she may no longer require an interview to
which I have already given an absolute denial."

This was true. Gomez Arias had obstinately refused to see his once idolized Theodora, nor could
all her prayers and entreaties, backed by the remonstrances of friends, prevail on him to alter
so unkind a resolution. This determination might have sprung from a feeling of horror for the
cause of his death, or of pity for the poignancy of her anguish: perhaps he wished to avoid
a scene which was capable of producing nothing but terrible or melancholy recollections.

He evinced, however, no reluctance to see his man, Roque. The poor faithful creature anxiously
desired to be admitted; for though the claims of his master to his gratitude were feeble, yet
a lively sentiment of affliction and a degree of horror for having been, though unwillingly,
one of the instruments to forward the catastrophe, made him desirous of throwing himself at
the feet of Gomez Arias.

Tremblingly the poor valet entered, and as he beheld the noble figure of Don Lope standing
composedly in the middle of the apartment, he could not refrain from tears.

"Oh! Don Lope," he cried, despondingly, "my dear and honored master, that it should come to
this! That ever I should live to see the most gallant cavalier in Granada undergo such a sentence!"

He then threw himself at the feet of Gomez Arias, and clasping firmly both his knees, in a
tone of keen anguish continued--

"Alas! my unfortunate master, I will not rise from the ground until you grant me full pardon
for the share I have in your death. Heaven knows how unwillingly I have acted, and how sadly
I repent the untoward circumstances which reduced me to that fearful alternative."

"Rise, my good Roque," said Gomez Arias. "I freely forgive thee, not only the melancholy necessity
to which thou hast been compelled, but even all the other transgressions of which thou hast
been guilty in my service, and I dare say they are not a few; however, as I am to undertake
to-morrow so long a journey in which, I suppose, thou hast no inclination to bear me company----"

"Virgen de las Angustias," interrupted Roque, "how can you, Señor, speak of such dreadful things
in so light a manner?"

"Now, Roque," replied Don Lope, "thou must be silent, at least at present, and allow me thy
privilege for a time; listen with attention. It is high time to settle my accounts. I am thy
debtor, Roque."

"Valgame Dios!" exclaimed the valet. "Señor Don Lope, why think of these matters at such a time?"

"The best of times," returned his master, "or you run a fair chance of not being paid at all."

"But I do not want to be paid," cried Roque, sobbing aloud. "I am sure you think too meanly
of me, if you suppose I came here with such on intention."

"No, Roque, I well know thy fidelity, and I mean not to offend thee; but thou must not refuse
the last bequest of thy master: here, take this," he said, delivering a large purse, which
the valet could scarcely be prevailed upon to accept. "And here," he continued, taking a ring
from his finger, "receive this as a token of remembrance," and as Roque hesitated to take it,
he added, smiling, "Take it, for I can now give rings away without danger."

"Thank you, my good master, but have you no pledge of affection, no last remembrance for her?"

"Why," answered Gomez Arias, with affected levity, "she will never forget me. Besides I have
nothing worthy of her acceptance--give her my best wishes, and beseech her to pardon me as
freely as I forgive her."

Having said this, he wished to turn away, but Roque again interposed, and in a most doleful tone--

"Alack! Don Lope," he said, "remember what I told you at Guadix; my forebodings did not deceive
me, for my prognostication has, unfortunately, been but too truly accomplished. Now, had you
then--"

"Gently, my good fellow," interrupted Gomez Arias, "gently; this will never do; thou camest
here in the humble mood of a sinner, to crave my forgiveness, and now thou hast relapsed into
thy former calling by assuming the preacher. In goodness forbear, and leave that task to those
who claim it in virtue of their office. And now, my faithful Roque, begone, for I feel drowsy,
and an hour's sleep would not come amiss."

Saying this, he bade his servant kindly adieu, and retired to his closet, followed by two guards.

Roque was bewildered, for though he had already had several occasions of forming a just estimation
of the character and temper of Gomez Arias, yet he could not comprehend how a man on the eve
of death could resign himself to sleep with the ease and composure which his master evinced.

"Virgen Santa!" he ejaculated, "did ever man think of sleep at such a time? Why los siete durmientes[46]
would have been at fault at such a pinch. He is going to sleep; the Lord help him! I am sure
I cannot sleep; nay, I don't know whether I shall ever sleep again."

