No one was more attentive to me than Dr. Milne-Edwards, the celebrated natural historian. He
was the first Englishman who was elected a member of the Institute. I was indebted to him for
the acquaintance of MM. Ampère and Becquerel. I believe Dr. Edwards was at that time writing
on Physiology, and, in conversation, I happened to mention that the wild ducks in the fens,
at Lincolnshire, always build their nests on high tufts of grass, or reeds, to save them from
sudden floods; and that Sir John Sebright had raised wild ducks under a hen, which built their
nests on tufts of grass as if they had been in the fens. Dr. Edwards begged of me to inquire
for how many generations that instinct lasted.

Monsieur and Madame Gay Lussac lived in the Jardin des Plantes. Madame was only twenty-one,
exceedingly pretty, and well-educated; she read English and German, painted prettily, and was
a musician. She told me it had been computed, that if all the property in France were equally
divided among the population, each person would have 150 francs a-year, or four sous per day;
so that if anyone should spend eight sous a-day, some other person would starve.

The Duchesse de Broglie, Madame de Staël's daughter, called, and invited us to her receptions,
which were the most brilliant in Paris. Every person of distinction was there, French or foreign,
generally four or five men to one woman. The Duchess was a charming woman, both handsome and
amiable, and received with much grace. The Duke was, then, Minister for Foreign Affairs. They
were remarkable for their domestic virtues, as well as for high intellectual cultivation. The
part the Duke took in politics is so well known, that I need not allude to it here.

At some of these parties I met with Madame Charles Dupin, whom I liked much. When I went to
return her visit, she received us in her bedroom. She was a fashionable and rather elegant
woman, with perfect manners. She invited us to dinner to meet her brother-in-law, the President
of the Chamber of Deputies. He was animated and witty, very fat, and more ugly than his brother,
but both were clever and agreeable. The President invited me to a very brilliant ball he gave,
but as it was on a Sunday I could not accept the invitation. We went one evening with Madame
Charles Dupin to be introduced to Madame de Rumford. Her first husband, Lavoisier, the chemist,
had been guillotined at the Revolution, and she was now a widow, but had lived long separated
from her second husband. She was enormously rich, and had a magnificent palace, garden, and
conservatory, in which she gave balls and concerts. At all the evening parties in Paris the
best bedroom was lighted up for reception like the other rooms. Madame de Rumford was capricious
and ill-tempered; however, she received me very well, and invited me to meet a very large party
at dinner. Mr. Fenimore Cooper, the American novelist, with his wife and daughter, were among
the guests. I found him extremely amiable and agreeable, which surprised me, for when I knew
him in England he was so touchy that it was difficult to converse with him without giving him
offence. He was introduced to Sir Walter Scott by Sir James Mackintosh, who said, in presenting
him, "Mr. Cooper, allow me to introduce you to your great forefather in the art of fiction";
"Sir," said Cooper, with great asperity, "I have no forefather." Now, though his manners were
rough, they were quite changed. We saw a great deal of him, and I was frequently in his house,
and found him perfectly liberal; so much so, that he told us the faults of his country with
the greatest frankness, yet he was the champion of America, and hated England.

None were kinder to us than Lord and Lady Granville. Lady Granville invited us to all her parties;
and when Somerville was obliged to return to England, she assured him that in case of any disturbance,
we should find a refuge in the Embassy. I went to some balls at the Tuileries with Madame de
Lafayette Lasteyrie and her sister. The Queen Amélie was tall, thin, and very fair, not pretty,
but infinitely more regal than Adelaide, Queen of England, at that time. The Royal Family used
to walk about in the streets of Paris without any attendants.

Sir Sydney Smith was still in Paris trying to renew the order of the Knights Templars. Somerville
and I went with him one evening to a reception at the Duchesse d'Abrantés, widow of Junot.
She was short, thick, and not in the least distinguished-looking, nor in any way remarkable.
I had met her at the Duchesse de Broglie's, where she talked of Junot as if he had been in
the next room. Sir Sydney was quite covered with stars and crosses, and I was amused with the
way he threw his cloak back to display them as he handed me to the carriage.

I met with Prince Kosloffsky everywhere; he was the fattest man I ever saw, a perfect Falstaff.
However, his intellect was not smothered, for he would sit an hour with me talking about mathematics,
astronomy, philosophy, and what not. He was banished from Russia, and as he had been speaking
imprudently about politics in Paris, he was ordered to go elsewhere; still, he lingered on,
and was with me one morning when Pozzo di Borgo, the Russian Ambassador called. Pozzo di Borgo
said to me, "Are you aware that Prince Kosloffsky has left Paris?" "Oh yes," I said, "I regret
it much." He took the hint, and went away directly.

I had hitherto been entirely among the Liberal set. How it came that I was invited to dine
with M. Héricourt de Thury, I do not remember. M. de Thury was simple in his manners, and full
of information; he had been Director of the Mines under Napoleon, and had charge of the Public
Buildings under Louis XVIII. and Charles X., but resigned his charges at the Revolution of
July. At this time the Duchesse de Berry was confined in the citadel of Blaye. She had a strong
party in Paris, who furiously resented the treatment she met with. M. de Thury was a moderate
Legitimiste, but Madame was ultra. When I happened to mention that we had been staying with
Lafayette, at La Grange, she was horrified, and begged of me not to talk politics, or mention
where we had been, or else some of her guests would leave the room. The ladies of that party
would not dance or go to any gay party; they had a part of the theatre reserved for themselves;
they wore high dark dresses with long sleeves, called "Robes de Résistance," and even the Legitimiste
newspapers appeared with black edges. They criticised those who gave balls, and Lady Granville
herself did not escape their censure. The marriage of the Duchesse de Berry to the Marchese
Lucchesi Palli made an immense sensation; it was discussed in the salons in a truly French
manner; it was talked of in the streets; the Robes de Résistance were no longer worn, and the
Legitimiste newspapers went out of mourning.

All parties criticised the British Administration in Ireland. A lady sitting by me at a party
said, "No wonder so many English prefer France to so odious a country as England, where the
people are oppressed, and even cabbages are raised in hotbeds." I laughed, and said, "I like
England very well, for all that." An old gentleman, who was standing near us, said, "Whatever
terms two countries may be on, it behoves us individuals to observe good manners;" and when
I went away, this gentleman handed me to the carriage, though I had never seen him before.

The Marquise de La Place was commissioned by Dr. Majendie to invite me to meet her and Madame
Gay Lussac at dinner. I was very unwilling to go; for I detested the man for his wanton cruelties,
but I found I could not refuse on account of these ladies. There was a large party of savants,
agreeable and gentlemanly; but Majendie himself had the coarsest manners; his conversation
was horridly professional; many things were said and subjects discussed not fit for women to
hear. What a contrast the refined and amiable Sir Charles Bell formed with Majendie! Majendie
and the French school of anatomy made themselves odious by their cruelty, and failed to prove
the true anatomy of the brain and nerves, while Sir Charles Bell did succeed, and thus made
one of the greatest physiological discoveries of the age without torturing animals, which his
gentle and kindly nature abhorred. To Lady Bell I am indebted for a copy of her husband's Life.
She is one of my few dear and valued friends who are still alive.

       *     *     *     *     *

While in Paris, I lost my dear mother. She died at the age of ninety, attended by my brother
Henry. She was still a fine old lady, with few grey hairs. The fear of death was almost hereditary
in the Charters family, and my mother possessed it in no small degree; yet when it came, she
was perfectly composed and prepared for it. I have never had that fear; may God grant that
I may be as calm and prepared as she was.

       *     *     *     *     *

I was in better health, but still so delicate that I wrote in bed till one o'clock. The "Connexion
of the Physical Sciences" was a tedious work, and the proof sheets had to be sent through the
Embassy.

M. Arago told me that David, the sculptor, wished to make a medallion of me; so he came and
sat an hour with me, and pleased me by his intelligent conversation and his enthusiasm for
art. A day was fixed, and he took my profile on slate with pink wax, in a wonderfully short
time. He made me a present of a medallion in bronze, nicely framed, and two plaster casts for
my daughters.

       *     *     *     *     *

I frequently went to hear the debates in the Chambers, and occasionally took my girls, as I
thought it was an excellent lesson in French. As party spirit ran very high, the scenes that
occurred were very amusing. A member, in the course of his speech, happening to mention the
word "liberté," the President Dupin rang the bell, called out "Stop, à propos de liberté,"
... jumped down from his seat, sprung into the tribune, pushed out the deputy, and made a long
speech himself.

The weather being fine, we made excursions in the neighbourhood. At Sèvres I saw two pieces
of china; on one of them was a gnu, on the other a zebra. Somerville had told me that soon
after his return from his African expedition, he had given the original drawings to M. Brongniart
then director of the manufactory.

Baron Louis invited me to spend a day with him and his niece, Mademoiselle de Rigny, at his
country house, not far from Paris. I went with Madame de la Place, and we set out early, to
be in time for breakfast. The road lay through the Forest of Vincennes. The Baron's park, which
was close to the village of Petit-Brie, was very large, and richly wooded; there were gardens,
hot-houses, and all the luxuries of an English nobleman's residence. The house was handsome,
with a magnificent library; I remarked on the table the last numbers of the "Edinburgh" and
"Quarterly" Reviews. Both the Baron and his niece were simple and kind. I was greatly taken
with both; the Baron had all the quiet elegance of the old school, and his niece had great
learning and the manners of a woman of fashion. She lived in perfect retirement, having suffered
much in the time of the Revolution. They had both eventful lives; for Baron Louis, who had
been in orders, and Talleyrand officiated at the Champs de Mars when Louis the Sixteenth took
the oath to maintain the constitution. Field-Marshal Macdonald, Duc de Tarante, and his son-in-law,
the Duc de Massa; Admiral de Rigny, Minister of Marine; M. Barthe, Garde des Sceaux; and the
Bouvards, father and son, formed the party. After spending a most delightful and interesting
day, we drove to Paris in bright moonlight.

Our friends in Paris and at La Grange had been so kind to us that we were very sad when we
went to express our gratitude and take leave of them. We only stayed two days at La Grange,
and when we returned to Paris, Somerville went home and my son joined us, when we made a rapid
tour in Switzerland, the only remarkable event of which was a singular atmospheric phenomenon
we saw on the top of the Grimsel. On the clouds of vapour below us we saw our shadows projected,
of giant proportions, and each person saw his own shadow surrounded by a bright circle of prismatic
colours. It is not uncommon in mountain regions.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [General Lafayette and all his family were extremely kind to my
    mother. He was her constant visitor, and we twice visited him at his
    country house, La Grange. He wished to persuade my mother to go
    there for some days, after our return from Switzerland, which we did
    not accomplish. The General wrote the following letter to my father:--]

    FROM LAFAYETTE TO DR. SOMERVILLE.

    LA GRANGE, 31st October, 1833.

    MY DEAR SIR,

    I waited to answer your kind letter, for the arrival of Mr.
    Coke's[11] precious gift, which nobody could higher value, on every
    account, than the grateful farmer on whom it has been bestowed. The
    heifers and bull are beautiful; they have reached La Grange in the
    best order, and shall be tenderly attended to.... It has been a
    great disappointment not to see Mrs. Somerville and the young ladies
    before their departure. Had we not depended on their kind visit, we
    should have gone to take leave of them. They have had the goodness
    to regret the impossibility to come before their departure. Be so
    kind as to receive the affectionate friendship and good wishes of a
    family who are happy in the ties of mutual attachment that bind us
    to you and them.... Public interest is now fixed upon the Peninsula,
    and while dynasties are at civil war, and despotic or juste milieu
    cabinets seem to agree in the fear of a genuine development of
    popular institutions, the matter for the friends of freedom is to
    know how far the great cause of Europe shall be forwarded by these
    royal squabbles.

    We shall remain at La Grange until the opening of the session,
    hoping that, notwithstanding your and the ladies' absence, your
    attention will not be quite withdrawn from our interior affairs--the
    sympathy shall be reciprocal.

                            With all my heart, I am
                                    Your affectionate friend,
                                                        LAFAYETTE.

