While he waited, he engaged his passage to Cherbourg on a ship that was to sail at the end
of the week. That would give Billie's answer time to come. Or--just madly supposing she cared
enough to have an understudy play her part for a few days--it would allow time for a wonderful
surprise, and the greatest proof of love a girl could give a man.

There was no telegram, but the day before he was to sail an envelope with Billie Brookton's
pretty scrawl on it was put into his hand. He opened it carefully, because it seemed sacrilege
to tear what she had touched, or break the purple seal, with the two bees on it, which she
used instead of initials or a monogram. The perfume which came from the paper was her own special
perfume, named in honour of her success and popularity--"Girls' Love." Max remembered Billie's
telling him once that it cost "outsiders" five dollars an ounce, because there were amber and
lots of wonderful, mysterious things in it; but she got it for nothing.

"How good, how noble you are!" were her first words; and Max's heart leaped. This divine creature,
who could have her pick of men, was going to say ... but as his eyes travelled fast from line
to line, the beating of his heart slowed down.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come back to me when this horrible business trouble is over, and ask me again, as you say
you will. You'll find me waiting, oh, so impatiently! for I do love you. Whatever happens,
Max--dear, handsome Max--you will be the one great romance of my life. I can never forget you,
or those blue eyes of yours, the day you told me you cared. They will haunt me always. Oh,
how I wish I were rich enough for both of us, so that we might be happy, even in case of the
worst, and you lose your money! But I don't know how to keep the wretched stuff when I have
it. And though I make a lot now, I'm not strong, and who knows how long my vogue may last?
We poor actress girls, who depend on our health and the fickle public, have to think of these
sordid things. It is, oh, so sad for us! No woman who hasn't known the struggle herself can
realize. Do hurry back, with good news for both, and save me from a dreadful man who is persecuting
me to marry him. I met him in such an odd way the last time I was here in Chicago, but I didn't
tell you the story of the adventure, because it would only have worried you. Besides, you made
me forget every one and everything--you did truly, Max! But he frightens me now, he is so fearfully
rich, and so strong and insisting; and somehow he's got round auntie. She's so silly; she thinks
you oughtn't to have left me as you did, though of course you had to. I understood, if she
doesn't. She's only a foolish old lady, but she does fuss so about this man! If you don't rescue
me, he may be my fate. I feel it. Dear Max, I wait for you. I want you.

BILLIE.

"P.S. Please wire when you know."

As he read the letter through for the second time, he could hear through the open window of
his room a woman's voice singing one of Gaëta's songs, the one most popular: "Forever--never!
Who knows?"

The words mingled themselves with the words of the letter: "Come back. Bring good news. Forever--never!
Who knows?" And the song was from the last act of "Girls' Love."

CHAPTER IV

THE UPPER BERTH

When he had learned at the village of La Tour that Doctor Lefebre had left the place long ago,
to practise in Paris, Max went there, and found Lefebre without difficulty. He was now, at
fifty, a well-known man, still young looking, but with a somewhat melancholy face, and the
long eyelids that mean Jewish ancestry. When he had listened to Max's story he said, with a
thoughtful smile: "Do you see, it is to you I owe my success? I have never repented what I
did for Madame. Still less do I repent now, having met you. I gained advantages for myself
that I could not otherwise have had; and to-day proves that I gave them to one who Has known
how to profit by every gift. The other--the girl--would not have known how. There was something
strange about the child, something not right, not normal. I have often wondered what she has
become. But it is better for you not to think of her. Fate has shut a door between you two.
Don't open it. That is the advice, Monsieur, of the man who brought you into this very extraordinary
world."

Max thanked him, but answered that, for good or ill, he had made up his mind. Doctor Lefebre
shrugged his shoulders with an air of resigned regret, and told what little he knew of the
Delatours since he had sent the young woman off to Algeria with the baby. The first thing he
had heard was four or five years after, when he paid a visit to La Tour, and was told that
Maxime Delatour had left the army and settled permanently in Algeria. Then, no more news for
several years, until one day a letter had been forwarded to him in Paris from his old address
at La Tour. It was from Madame Delatour, dated "Hotel Pension Delatour, Alger," asking guardedly
if he would tell her where she might write to the American lady whose child had been born at
the château. "The lady who had been kind to her and her baby." She would like to send news
of little Josephine, in whom the lady might still take an interest. Madame Delatour had added
in a postscript that she and her husband were keeping a small hotel in Algiers, which they
had taken with "some money that had come to them," but were not doing as well as they could
wish. Doctor Lefebre, feeling sure that she meant to make trouble, had not answered the letter;
but even had he answered, he could only have said that Mrs. Doran lived in New York. He knew
no more himself, and had never tried to find out. Since then he had heard nothing of the Delatour
family.

That same night Max left Paris for Marseilles, and the next morning he was on board the General
Morel starting for Algiers. For the first time in his life he had to think of economy: for
though Rose's legacy had amounted to something over fifteen thousand dollars, already it was
nearly disposed of. He determined never again to touch a Doran dollar for his own personal
use, unless he discovered that the rightful owner was dead. He had left Fort Ellsworth owing
a good deal here and there; for tradesmen were slow about sending bills to such a valuable
customer. Now, however, he felt that he must pay his debts with the money that was his own;
and settling them would make an immense hole in his small inheritance. There, for instance,
were the pearls and the ring he had bought for Billie Brookton. Their cost alone was nine thousand
dollars, and even if Billie should offer to give them back, he meant to ask her to keep them
for remembrance. But she would not offer. He would never have admitted to himself that he knew
she would not; yet, since receiving her letter, he had known. If he had by and by to tell Billie
that he was to be a poor man, she would make some charming excuse for not sending back his
presents. Or else she would not refer to them at all. Whatever the future might bring, it seemed
to Max that he had lost youth's bright vision of romance. There was no such girl in the world
as the girl he had dreamed. The letter had shown him that--the one letter he had ever had from
Billie Brookton.

After his talk with Doctor Lefebre the change in his life became for Max more intimately real
than it had been before. The fact that he was travelling second-class, though an insignificant
thing in itself, brought it home to him in a curious, irritating way. He felt that he must
be a weak, spoiled creature, not worthy to call himself a soldier, because little, unfamiliar
shabbinesses and inconveniences disgusted him. He remembered how he had revelled in his one
trip abroad with Rose and some friends of theirs the year before he went to West Point. They
had motored from Paris to the Riviera, and stayed in Nice. Then they had come back to Marseilles,
and had taken the best cabins on board a great liner, for Egypt. What fun he and the other
boy of the party had had! He felt now that, however things turned out, the fun of life was over.

If the girl, Josephine Delatour, lived, he would have to leave the army; that was clear. Grant
Reeves had shown him why. And it would be hard, for he loved soldiering. He could think willingly
of no other profession or even business. Yet somewhere, somehow, he would have to begin at
the bottom and work up. Besides, there were his real parents to be thought of, if they were
still alive. Max felt that perhaps he was hard--or worse still, snobbish--not to feel any instinctive
affection for them. His mother had sold him, in order that she might have money to go to her
husband, whom she loved so much better than her child. Well, at least she had a heart! That
was something. And if the pair still kept a little hotel, what of that? Was he such a mean
wretch as to be ashamed because he was the son of a small hotel-keeper? Max began spying out
in himself his faults and weaknesses, which, while he was happy and fortunate, he had never
suspected. And now and then he caught the words running through his mind: "If only she is dead,
the whole thing will be no more than a bad dream." What a cad he was! he thought. And even
if she were dead, nothing could ever be as it had been. Jack Doran was not his father, and
he would have no right to anything that had been Jack's, not even his love. If he kept the
money it would not make him happy. He could never be happy again.

It was in this mood that he went on board the General Morel, the oldest and worst-built ship
of her line. She was carrying a crowd of second-class passengers for Algiers, and the worried
stewards had no time to attend to him. He found his own cabin, by the number on his ticket,
groping through a long, dark corridor, which smelt of food and bilge water. The stateroom was
as gloomy as the passage leading to it, and he congratulated himself that at least he had the
lower berth.

His roommate, however, had been in before him, and either through ignorance or impudence had
annexed Max's bunk for himself. On the roughly laundered coverlet was a miniature brown kitbag,
conspicuously new looking. It had been carelessly left open, or had sprung open of itself,
being too tightly packed, and as Max prepared to change its place, muttering, "Cheek of the
fellow!" he could not help seeing two photographs in silver frames lying on top of the bag's
other contents. Both portraits were of men. One was an officer in the uniform of the French
army, with the typical soldier look which gives likeness and kin to fighting men in all races
of the world. The other photograph Max recognized at a glance as that of Richard Stanton, the
explorer.

Queer, Max thought, as he lifted the bag, open as it was, to the upper berth. Queer, that some
little bourgeois Frenchman, journeying second-class from Marseilles to Algiers, should have
as a treasure in his hand-baggage the portrait of a celebrated and extremely pugnacious Englishman
who had got the newspapers down on him two or three years ago for a wild interview he had given
against the entente cordiale. Max remembered it and the talk about it in the officers' mess
at Fort Ellsworth, just after he joined his regiment. However, the Frenchman's photographs
were his own business; and Max relented not at all toward the cheeky brute because he had a
portrait of the great Richard Stanton in his bag. This was the sort of thing one had to expect
when one travelled second-class! A few weeks before he would have thought it impossible as
well as disgusting to bunk with a stranger whom he had never seen; but as he said to himself,
with a shrug of the shoulders which tried to be Spartan, "Misfortune makes strange bedfellows."
Max was disciplining himself to put up with hardships of all sorts which would probably become
a part of everyday life. His own hand-luggage, a suitcase with his name marked on it, had been
dumped down by some steward in the corridor, and he carried it into the stateroom himself,
pushing it far under the lower berth with a rather vicious kick. As rain was falling in torrents,
and a bitter wind blowing, he kept on his heavy overcoat, and went out of the cabin leaving
no trace of his ownership there except the hidden suitcase. Perhaps on that kick which had
sent it out of sight the shaping of Max Doran's whole future life depended.

On the damp deck and in the dingy "salle" of the second-class Max wondered, with stifled repulsion,
which among the fat Germans, hook-nosed Algerian Jews, dignified Arab merchants, and common-looking
Frenchmen, was to share his ridiculously small cabin. Most of them appeared to be half sick
already, in fearful anticipation of the rocking they were doomed to get in the ancient tub
once she steamed out of the harbour and into the face of the gale. In the "gang," as he called
it, there was visible but one person in what Max Doran had been accustomed to think of as his
own "rank." That person was a girl, and despite the gloom which shut him into himself, he glanced
at her now and then with curiosity. It seemed unaccountable that such a girl should be travelling
apparently alone, and especially second-class.

The first thing that caught his attention was the colour of her hair as she stood with her
back to him, on deck. She was wrapped in a long, dark blue coat, with well-cut lines which
showed the youthfulness of her tall, slim figure, as tall and slim as Billie Brookton's, but
more alertly erect, more boyish. On her head was a small, close-fitting toque of the same dark
blue as her coat; and between this cap and the turned-up collar bunched out a thick roll of
yellow hair. It was not as yellow as Billie's, yet at first glance it reminded him of hers,
with a sick longing for lost beauty and romance. Seeing the delicate figure, cloaked in the
same blue which Billie affected for travelling, he thought what it would be like to have the
girl with the yellow hair turn, to show Billie's face radiant with love for him, to hear her
flutey voice cry: "Max, I couldn't bear it without you! Forget what I said in that horrid letter.
I didn't mean a word of it. I've given up everything to be your wife. Take me!"

Soon the girl did turn from the rain blowing into her face, and that face was of an entirely
different type from Billie's. Seeing it, after that attack upon his imagination, was a sharp
relief to Max. Still he did not lose interest. The girl's hair was not so yellow where it grew
on her head and framed the rather thin oval of her face, as in the thick-rolled mass behind,
golden still with childhood's gold. Except for her tall slenderness she was not in the least
like Billie Brookton; and she would have no great pretension to beauty had it not been for
a pair of long, gray, thick-lashed eyes which looked out softly and sweetly on the world. Her
nose was too small and her mouth too large, but the delicate cutting of the nostrils and the
bow of the coral-pink upper lip had fascination and a sensitiveness that was somehow pathetic.
She held her head high, on a long and lovely throat, which gave her a look of courage, but
a forced courage, not the christening gift of godmother nature. That sort of girl, Max reflected,
was meant to be cherished and taken care of. And why was she not taken care of? He wondered
if she had run away from home, in her dainty prettiness, to be jostled by this unappreciative,
second-class crowd? She was brave enough, though, despite her look of flower-delicacy, to stop
on deck long after the ship had steamed out from the comparatively quiet, rock-bound harbour,
and plunged into the tossing sea. At last a big wave drove the girl away, and Max did not see
her again until dinner time. He came late and reluctantly into the close-smelling dining-saloon,
and found her already seated at the long table. Her place was nearly opposite his, and as he
sat down she looked up with a quick, interested look which had girlish curiosity in it, and
a complete lack of self-consciousness that was perhaps characteristic. Evidently, as he had
separated her in his mind from the rabble, wondering about her, so she had separated him and
wondered also. She was too far away for Max to speak, even if he had dared; but a moment later
a big man who squeezed himself in between table and revolving chair, next to the girl, made
an excuse to ask for the salt, and begin a conversation. He did this in a matter-of-fact, bourgeois
way, however, which not even a prude or a snob could think offensive. And apparently the girl
was far from being a prude or a snob. She answered with a soft, girlish charm of manner which
gave the impression that she was generously kind of heart. Then something that the man said
made her flush up and start with surprise.

From that moment on the two were absorbed in each other. Could it be, Max asked himself, that
the big, rough fellow and the daintily bred girl had found an acquaintance in common? There
seemed to be a gulf between them as wide as the world, yet evidently they had hit upon some
subject which interested them both. Through the clatter of dishes Max caught words, or fragments
of sentences, all spoken in French. The man had a common accent, but the girl's was charming.
She had a peculiarly sweet, soft voice, that somehow matched the sweetness and softness of
the long, straight-lashed eyes under the low, level brows, so delicately yet clearly pencilled.
Max guessed at first that she was English; then from some slight inflection of tone, wondered
if she were Irish instead. It was a name which sounded like "Sidi-bel-Abbés" that made the
girl start and blush, and turn to her neighbour with sudden interest. Again and again they
mentioned "Sidi-bel-Abbés," which meant nothing for Max until he heard the girl say "La Legion
Etrangére." Immediately the recollection of a book he had read flashed into Max's brain. Why,
yes, of course, Sidi-bel-Abbés was a place in Algeria, the headquarters of the Foreign Legion,
that mysterious band of men without a country, in whom men of all countries are interested.
What was there in the subject of the Foreign Legion to attract such a girl? Could she be going
alone to Sidi-bel-Abbés, hoping to find some lost relative--a brother, perhaps? She asked the
man eager questions, which Max could not hear, but the big fellow shook his bullet-shaped head.
Evidently he had little information to give on the subject which specially appealed to her;
but there were others on which he held forth volubly; and though the girl's attention flagged
sometimes, she could have been no more gracious in her manner to the common fellow if he had
been an exiled king. "La Boxe" were the words which Max began to hear repeated, and a boxer
was what the man looked like: a second or third rate professional. Max wished that he could
catch what was being said, for boxing was one of his own accomplishments. He boxed so well
that once, before he was twenty-one, he had knocked out his master, an ex-lightweight champion,
in three rounds. Since then he had kept up his practice, and the sporting set among the officers
at Fort Ellsworth had been proud of their Max Doran.

Every moment the weather grew worse, and one after another the few second-class passengers
who had dared to risk dining faded away. At last, about halfway through the badly served meal,
the girl got up with a wan little smile for her talkative neighbour, and went out, keeping
her balance by catching at the back of a chair now and then. The bullet-headed man soon followed,
charging at the open door like a bull, as a wave dropped the floor under his feet. But Max,
priding himself on his qualities as a sailor, managed to sit through the meagre dessert.

The girl was not visible on the rain-swept deck, or in the gloomy reading-room, where Max glanced
over old French papers until his optic nerves sent imperative messages of protest to his brain.
Then he strayed on deck again, finding excuse after excuse to keep out of his cabin, where
no doubt a seasick roommate was by this time wallowing and guzzling. At last, however, his
swimming head begged for a pillow, no matter how hard, and in desperation he went below. He
found the cabin door on the hook, and the faded curtain of cretonne drawn across. There was
one comfort, at least: the wretch liked air. Max hoped the fellow had gone to sleep, in which
case there might be some chance of rest. Gently he unhooked the door and fastened it again
in the same manner. A little light flittered through the thin curtain, enabling Max to grope
his way about the tiny stateroom, and he determined not to rouse his companion by switching
on the electricity.

It had occurred to him, on his way to the cabin, that he might find his berth usurped by a
prostrate form, as in the afternoon by a bag. But his first peering glance through the dimness
reassured him on this point. The owner of the bag had taken the hint, and stowed himself in
his own bunk. Max could just make out a huddled shape under bedclothes which had been drawn
high for warmth. Then he knelt down to grope for the suitcase which he had pushed far under
his own berth. Seeking it in the semi-darkness, a wave sent him sprawling. He heard from somewhere
a shrill crash of glass, a sudden babble of excited voices, and decided it would not be worth
while to undress unless the storm should abate. He scrambled up, and thankfully flung himself,
just as he was, on to his bunk. In the wild confusion of squeaking, straining planks, the thump
of waves against the porthole, the demon-shrieks of infuriated wind, and the shouts and running
to and fro of sailors overhead, it seemed impossible that any human being could sleep. Yet
the creature overhead was mercifully quiet; and suddenly slumber fell upon Max, shutting out
thought and sound. For a while he slept heavily; but by and by dreams came and lifted the curtain
of unconsciousness, stirring him to restlessness. It seemed that he had lived through years
since New York, and that everything had long ago been decided for him, one way or the other,
though his dulled brain kept the secret. He knew only that he was at Sidi-bel-Abbés--Sidi-bel-Abbés.
How he had got there, and what he was doing, he could not tell. It ought to be a town, but
it was not. There were no houses nor buildings of any kind in this strange Sidi-bel-Abbés.
He could see only waves of yellow sand, billowing and moving all around him like sea waves;
and it was sea as well as desert. Suddenly one of the waves rolled away, to show a small white
tent, almost like a covered boat. A voice was calling to him from it, and he struggled to get
near, falling and stumbling among the yellow waves. Then abruptly he started back. It was Billie
Brookton's voice. Instead of being glad to hear it, he was bitterly, bleakly disappointed,
and felt chilled to the heart with cold. Surprised at his own despair, he waked up, with a
great start, just in time to brace his feet against the bottom of the berth and save himself
from being thrown out by a shuddering bound of the ship. From overhead he heard a sigh of pain
or weariness, and the top berth creaked with some movement of its occupant. "The beast's awake!"
thought Max, resentfully. "Now for ructions! No more hope of sleep for me, I suppose."

But all was still again, except for a faint rustling as if the pillow were being turned over.
At the same instant something long and supple, like a thick, silky rope, slid down from above.
He could see it in the dim light as it fell and brushed his hand protruding, palm uppermost,
over the edge of the bunk. Quite mechanically he shut his fingers on the thing, to prevent
its dropping to the floor, and, to his amazement, it felt to the touch like a woman's hair.
His hand was full of it--a great, satin-soft curl it seemed to be. Only, it couldn't be that,
of course! Maybe he was half dreaming still. He opened his fingers and let the stuff go. But
instead of falling to the floor, the long rope swayed gently back and forth with the rocking
of the ship. It was hair! A wonderful plait of hair, attached to a woman's head. A woman was
lying there in the upper berth.

CHAPTER V

THE NIGHT OF STORMS

A Woman! But how was it possible that there should be a woman in his cabin? There must have
been some unthinkable mistake, and he felt confident that it was not he who had made it. He
had looked carefully at the number over the door, comparing it with the number on his ticket.
But, after all, what did it matter? It was too late now to apportion blame. She was there.
And what hair she had! When she stood up it must fall far below her knees.

"What shall I do?" thought Max. "Shall I lie still until she goes to sleep again, and then
sneak out into the salle? If she doesn't see my suitcase she need never know I've been in the
room."

And, after all, it came back to that, whether he had mistaken the cabin, or she. If he had
left his suitcase in plain sight, marked "Lieutenant Max Doran, --th Cavalry, Fort Ellsworth,"
the woman would have rung for a steward, and the error would somehow have been adjusted.

Four or five minutes passed, and silence reigned in the berth overhead. Max sat up cautiously,
lest his bunk should squeak, and had begun still more cautiously to emerge from it, when there
came a sudden vicious lurch of the ship. He was flung out, but seized the berth-curtain, as
the General Morel awkwardly wallowed, and staggered to his feet, just in time to save the occupant
of the upper berth from flying across the room. With a cry, she fell on to his shoulder, and
he held her up with one hand, still grasping the curtain with the other. The long plait of
hair and a smooth bare arm were round his neck. A face was close to his, and he could feel
warm, quick breaths on his cheek.

"Don't be frightened," he heard himself soothe her with deceitful calm. "It'll be all right
in a minute. I won't let you fall."

Even as he spoke, it occurred to Max that possibly she didn't understand English. The thought
had hardly time to pass through his mind, however, when she answered him in English in a shocked
whisper, trying vainly to draw away:

"But--it's a man!--in my cabin!"

"I'm awfully sorry," said Max. "There's been some mistake. Better let me hold you a few seconds
more, till the ship's steadier. Then I'll lift you down to the lower berth. You see, I thought
it was my cabin."

"Oh," she exclaimed; and he felt a quiver run through the bare arm. Her hair, which showered
over his face and twined intricately round his neck, had a faint, flowery perfume. "As soon
as I get you down, and make you comfortable, I'll go," he hurried on. "There, now, I think
things are quieting for the moment. We must have had two waves following one another quicker
than the rest. Let go your hold on the berth, and I'll take you out."

He felt her relax obediently; and slipping one arm under her shoulder, the other under her
knees, he lifted a burden which proved to be light, from the upper berth, to bestow it in safety,
far back against the wall in the bunk underneath.

"Oh, thank you," was breathed out with a sigh of relief. "You're very kind--and so strong!
But I feel dreadfully ill. I hope I'm not going to faint."

"I'll get you some brandy," said Max, bethinking himself of a certain silver flask in his suitcase,
a prize as it happened, won as an amateur of la boxe.

To his horror she made no answer.

"Jove!" he muttered. "She's gone off--and no wonder. It's awful!"

He began to be flurried, for his own head was not too clear. "She may be flung to the floor
while I'm groping around for that suitcase of mine, if she's fainted, and can't save herself
when the next wave comes," he thought. "That won't do. I'll have to light up, and wall her
in with the bedding from the top bunk, so she can't easily be pitched out."

Hesitating a little, not quite sure about the propriety of the necessary revelation, he nevertheless
switched on the electricity. After the dusk which had turned everything shadow-gray, the little
stateroom appeared to be brilliantly illuminated. In his berth lay the girl he had seen on
deck and at dinner.

Max was not completely taken by surprise, as he would have been had he seen the vision before
hearing her voice. As she clung round his neck, she had spoken only brokenly and in a whisper,
but from the first words he had felt instinctively sure of his companion's identity.

If she had been delicately pale before, now she was deathly white, so white that Max, who had
never before seen a woman faint, felt a stab of fear. What if she had a weak heart? What if
she were dead?

She wore a dressing-gown of a white woollen material, inexpensive perhaps, but classic in its
soft foldings around the slender body; and the thought flitted through Max's head that she
was like a slim Greek statue, come alive; or perhaps Galatea, disappointed with the world,
turning back to marble.

All the while he, with unsteady hands, unlocked and opened his bag, fumbling among its contents
for the flask, she lay still, without a quiver of the eyelids. She did not even seem to breathe.
But perhaps girls were like that when they fainted! Max didn't know. He wanted to listen for
the beating of her heart, but dared not. He would try the brandy, and if that did not bring
her to herself, he would ring and ask for the ship's doctor. But--could he do that? How could
he explain to any one their being together in this cabin?

Hastily he poured a little brandy from the flask into the tiny cup which screwed on like a
cover. The pitching and tossing made it hard not to spill the fluid over the upturned face--that
would have been sacrilege!--but with an adroitness born of desperation he contrived to pour
a few drops between the parted lips. Apparently they produced no effect; but another cautious
experiment was rewarded by a gasp and a slight quivering of the white throat. On one knee by
the side of the berth, Max slipped an arm under the pillow, thus lifting the girl's head a
little, that she might not choke. As he did this she swallowed convulsively, and opening her
eyes wide, looked straight into his.

"Thank heaven!" exclaimed Max. "You frightened me."

She smiled at him, their faces not far apart, her wonderful hair trailing past his breast.
Yet in his anxiety and relief Max had lost all sense of strangeness in the situation. Drawing
long, slow breaths, she seemed purposefully to be gaining strength to speak. "It's nothing--to
faint," she murmured. "I used to, often. And I feel so ill."

"Have you any one on board whom I could call?" Max asked.

"Nobody," she sighed. "I'm all alone. I--surely this cabin is 65?"

"I think it's 63. But no matter," Max answered hurriedly. "Don't bother about that now. I----"

"When I came in first this morning, I rang for a stewardess to ask if there was to be any one
with me," the girl went on, a faint colour beginning to paint her white cheeks and lips with
the palest rose. "But nobody answered the bell. There was no luggage here, and I thought I
must be by myself. But afterward a stewardess or some one put my bag off this bed on to the
upper one so I dared not take the lower berth. I put the door on the hook, to get air; but
when I heard somebody come in, I never dreamed it might be a man."

"Of course not," Max agreed. "And I--when I saw a form in the dim light, lying up there--I
never thought of its being a woman. I can't tell you how sorry I am to have seemed such a brute.
But----"

"After all, it's a fortunate thing for me you were here," the girl comforted him. "If you hadn't
been, I should have fallen out of the top berth and perhaps killed myself. I should hate to
die now. I want so much to see my father in Africa, and--and--somebody else. I think you must
have saved my life."

"I should be so happy to think that," Max answered warmly. "I haven't as pleasant an errand
in Africa as you have. But whatever happens, I shall be thankful that I came, and on this ship.
I was wondering to-day if I were glad or sorry to have been born. But if I was born to save
a girl from harm, it was worth while, of course, just for that and nothing else. Now, if you're
feeling pretty well again, I'd better go." Gently he drew his arm out from under the pillow,
thus laying down the head he had supported.

The girl turned, resting her cheek on her hand--a frail little hand, soft-looking as that of
a child--and gazed at Max wistfully.

"I suppose you'll think it's dreadful of me," she faltered, "but--I wish you needn't go. I've
never been on the real sea before since I was a baby: only getting from England to Ireland
the shortest way, and on the Channel. This is the first storm I've seen. I never thought I
was a coward. I don't like even women to be cowards. I adore bravery in men, and that's why
I--but no matter! I don't know if I'm afraid exactly, but it's a dreadful feeling to be alone,
without any one to care whether you drown or not, at night on a horrible old ship, in the raging
waves. The sea's like some fierce, hungry animal, waiting its chance to eat us up."

"It won't get the chance," Max returned cheerfully. He was standing now, and she was looking
up at him from the hard little pillow lately pressed by his own head. "I shouldn't wonder if
the old tub has gone through lots of worse gales than this."

"It's comforting to hear you say so, and to have a human being to talk to, in the stormy night,"
sighed the girl. "I feel better. But if you go--and--where will you go?"

"There are plenty of places," Max answered her with vague optimism.

Just then the General Morel gave a leap, poised on the top of some wall of water, quivered,
hesitated, and jumped from the height into a gulf. Max held the girl firmly in the berth, or
she would have been pitched on to the floor. Involuntarily she grasped his arm, and let it
go only when the wallowing ship subsided.

"That was awful!" she whispered. "It makes one feel as if one were dying. I can't be alone!
Don't leave me!"

"Not unless you wish me to go," Max said with great gentleness.

"Oh, I don't--I can't! Except that you must be so miserably uncomfortable."

"I'm not; and it's the finest compliment and the greatest honour I've ever had in my life,"
Max stammered, "that you should ask me to--that it should be a comfort to you, my staying."

"But you are the kind of man women know they can trust," the girl apologized for herself. "You
see, one can tell. Besides, from the way you speak, I think you must be an American. I've heard
they're always good to women. I saw you on deck, and afterward at dinner. I thought then there
was something that rang true about you. I said 'That man is one of the few unselfish ones.
He would sacrifice himself utterly for others.' A look you have about the eyes told me that."

"I'm not being unselfish now," Max broke out impulsively; then, fearing he had said an indiscreet
thing, he hurried on to something less personal. "How would it be," he suggested in a studiously
commonplace tone, "if I should make myself comfortable sitting on my suitcase, just near enough
to your berth to keep you from falling out in case another of those monsters hit the ship?
You could go to sleep, and know you were safe, because I'd be watching."

"How good you are!" said the girl. "But I don't want to sleep, thank you. I don't feel faint
now. I believe you've given me some of your strength."

"That's the brandy," said Max, very matter of fact. "Have a few drops more? You can't have
swallowed half a teaspoonful----"

"Do you think, if I took a little, it would make me warm? I'm so icy cold."

"Yes, it ought to send a glow through your body." He poured another teaspoonful into the miniature
silver cup, and supported the pillow again, that she need not lift her head. Then he took the
two blankets off the upper berth, and wrapped them round the girl, tucking them cozily in at
the side of the bed and under her feet.

"If you were my brother," she said, "you couldn't be kinder to me. Have you ever had a woman
to take care of--a mother, or a sister, perhaps?"

"I never had a sister," Max answered. "But when I was a boy I loved to look after my mother."

"And now, is she dead?"

"Now she's dead."

"My mother," the girl volunteered, "died when I was born. That made my father hate the thought
of me, because he worshipped her, and it must have seemed my fault that she was lost to him.
I haven't seen my father since I was a little girl. But I'm going to him now. I've practically
run away from the aunts he put me to live with; and I'd hardly any money, so I was obliged
to travel all the way second-class."

"That's exactly what I thought!" ejaculated Max.

"Did you think about me, too?" she asked, interest in their talk helping her to forget the
rolling of the ship.

"Yes, I thought about you--of course."

"That I'd run away?"

"Well, you were so different from the rest, it was queer to see you in the second-class."

"But so are you--different from the rest. Yet you're in the second-class."

"I'm hard up," exclaimed Max, smiling.

"You, too! How strange that we, of all the others, should come together like this. It is as
if it were somehow meant to be, isn't it? As if we were intended to do something for each other
in future. I wish I could do something for you, to pay you for to-night."

"I don't need pay." Max smiled again, almost happily. "It's you who are being good to me. I
was feeling horribly down on my luck."

"I'm sorry. But it's helped you to help me. I understand that. Do you know, I believe you are
one whose greatest pleasure is in doing things for those not as strong as yourself."

"I never noticed that in my character," laughed Max.

"Yet there's something which tells me I'm right. I think you would, for that reason, make a
good soldier. My father is a soldier. He's stationed at a place called Sidi-bel-Abbés."

"But that's where the Foreign Legion is, isn't it?" The words slipped out.

"He's colonel of the First Regiment. Oh, I believe it's half dread of what he'll say to me,
that makes me so ill and nervous to-night. The only two men in the world I love are so strong,
so--so almost terrible, that I'm like a little wreath of spray dashed against the rocks of
their nature. They don't even know I'm there!"

Suddenly Max seemed to see the two framed photographs in the open bag: an officer in French
uniform, and Richard Stanton, the explorer, the man of fire and steel said to be without mercy
for himself or others. Max felt ashamed, as if inadvertently he had stumbled upon a secret.
"Strong men should be the tenderest to women," he reminded her.

"Yes, on principle. But when they want to live their own lives, and women interfere? What then?
Could one expect them to be kind and gentle?"

"A man worth his salt couldn't be harsh to a woman he loved."

"But if he didn't love her? I'm thinking of two men I know. And just now, more of my father
than--than the other. I've got no one to advise me. I wonder if you would, a little? You're
a man, and--and I can't help wondering if you're not a soldier. Don't think I ask from curiosity.
And don't tell me if you'd rather not. But you see, if you are one, it would help, because
you could understand better how a soldier would feel about things."

"I have been a soldier," Max said. There was no reason why he should keep back the truth from
this little girl for whom he was playing watchdog: the little girl who thought him as kind
as a brother! "But I'm afraid I don't know much about women."

"The soldier I'm thinking about--my father--doesn't want to have anything to do with women.
My mother spoiled him for others. I believe their love story must be the saddest in the whole
world. But tell me, if you were old, as he is, nearly fifty, and you had a daughter you didn't
love--though you'd been kind about money and all that--what would you say if she suddenly appeared
from another country, and said she'd come to live with you?"

"By Jove!" exclaimed Max. "Is that what you're going to do?"

"Yes. You think my father will have a right to be angry with me, and perhaps send me back?"

"I don't know about the right," said Max, "but soldiers get used to discipline, you see. And
a colonel of a regiment is always obeyed. He might find it inconvenient if a girl suddenly
turned up."

"But that's my only hope!" she pleaded. "Surprising my father. Anyhow, I simply can't go back
to my aunts. I have some in Dublin--they were my mother's aunts, too: and some in Paris--aunts
of my father. That makes them my great-aunts, doesn't it? Perhaps they're harder for young
people to live with than plain aunts, who aren't great. I shall be twenty-one in a few weeks
and free to choose my own life if my father won't have me. I'm not brave, but I'm always trying
to be brave! I can engage as a governess or something, in Algeria, if the worst comes to the
worst."

"I don't believe your father would let you do that. I wouldn't in his place."

"After all, you're very young to judge what he would do, even though you are a soldier!" exclaimed
the girl, determined not to be thwarted. "I must take my chance with him. I shall go to Sidi-bel-Abbés.
If there's a train, I'll start to-morrow night. And you, what are you going to do? Shall you
stop long in Algiers?"

"That depends," answered Max, "on my finding a woman I've come to search for."

The girl was gazing at him with the deepest interest. "You have come to Algiers to find a woman,"
she murmured, "and I, to find a man. Do you--oh, don't think me impertinent--do you love the
woman?"

"No," said Max. "I've never seen her." And then, the power of the storm and the night, and
their strange, dreamlike intimacy, made him add: "I love a woman whom I may never see again."

"And I," said the girl, "love a man I haven't seen since I was a child. Let's wish each other
happiness."

"I wish you happiness," echoed Max.

"And I you. I shall often think of you, even if we never meet after to-morrow. But I hope we
shall! I believe we shall." She shut her eyes suddenly, and lay still for so long that Max
was afraid she might have fainted again.

"Are you all right?" he asked anxiously, bending toward her from his low seat on the suitcase.

She opened her eyes with a slight start, as if she had waked, half dazed, from some unfinished
dream.

"Oh, yes," she said. "I was making a picture, in a way I have. I was wondering what would happen
to us, in our different paths, and trying to see. One of my aunts says it is 'Celtic' to do
that. I saw you in a great waste-place, like a desert. And then--I was there, too. We were
together--all alone. Perhaps, although I didn't know it, I'd really fallen asleep."

"Perhaps," agreed Max, and a vague thrill ran through him. He, too, had dreamed of desert as
he lay in the lower berth, and she, overhead, had dreamed a desert dream, each unknown to the
other. "Try to go to sleep again."

She closed her eyes, and presently he thought that she slept. Once or twice she waked with
the heave and jolt of a great wave, always to find her watchdog at hand.

But at last, when with the dawn the storm lulled, Max noiselessly switched off the light and
went out.

CHAPTER VI

THE NEWS

It was after breakfast when they met once more, on a wet deck, in bleak sunshine.

"I waked up in broad daylight and found you and your suitcase gone," said the girl. "Oh, how
guilty I felt! And then to discover that, just as you thought, the cabin was 63, not 65. What
became of you?"

"I was all right," replied Max evasively. "I got a place to rest and wash."

"In 65?"

"No, not there."

"Why, was there a woman in that cabin, too?"

Max laughed. It was good to have some one to laugh with. "I didn't dare look," he confessed.
"And I didn't care to wander about explaining myself and my belongings to suspicious stewards."

They walked up and down the deck, shoulder to shoulder, like old comrades. Last night there
had been so many matters more pressing and more important, that they had forgotten such trifles
as names. Now they introduced themselves to each other, though Max had an instant's hesitation
before calling himself Doran. To-morrow, or even to-day, he might learn that which would part
him forever from the name and all that had endeared and adorned it for him.

"Do you know what I've been calling you?" the girl asked, half ashamed, half shyly friendly,
"'St. George.' Because you came and saved me from the dragon of the sea that I was afraid of.
And that was appropriate, because St. George is my patron saint. I was born on his day, and
one of my names is Georgette, in honour of him, and of my father, who is Georges: Colonel Georges
DeLisle. My French aunts call me Georgette, for him. My Irish aunts call me 'Sanda,' for my
mother, who was Corisande, and I like being 'Sanda' best."

She was frank about herself, as if to reward Max for his St. George-like vigil, telling him
details of her life in Ireland and France, and how it had come about that Richard Stanton,
her father's friend, had informally acted as her guardian when she was a child. Somehow, finding
her so simple and outspoken, so kindly interested in him, Max could not bear, on his part,
to build up a wall of reserve. He gave the name that had always been his: and though he did
not tell her the whole story of his quest, he said that he was in search of a person to whom,
if found, all that had been his would belong. "But you needn't pity me," he added quickly.
"I'm used to the idea now. I shall lose some things by being poor, but I shall gain others."

She gave him a long look, seeing that he wanted no sympathy in words, and that it would jar
on him if she tried to offer it. "Yes, you'll gain others," she echoed. "It must be splendid
to be a man. I wonder--if things go as you think--will you stay and seek your fortune in Algeria?"

Seek his fortune in Algeria! Max could not answer for a second or two. Again he seemed to hear
Grant Reeves's rather affected voice speaking far off as if in a gramophone: "Perhaps you won't
want to come back to America."

When Grant had said that, Max had resolved almost fiercely that nothing on earth should keep
him from going back as quickly as possible. If Grant or Edwin Reeves had calmly advised his
seeking a new fortune in remote Algeria, he would have flung away the proposition with passion;
but when Sanda DeLisle quietly made the suggestion, it was different. America lay behind him
in the far distance, where the sun sets. His face was turned to the east, and Algeria was near.
The girl whom he had been able to help and protect was near, also. And she would be in Algeria.
If he hurried home to America he would never see her again. Not that that ought to matter much!
They were ships passing each other in the night. Yet--they had exchanged signals. Max had a
queer feeling that they belonged to each other, and that, if it were not for her, he would
be hideously, desperately homesick at this moment, almost homesick enough to turn coward and
go back with his errand not done. Curiously enough, he felt, too, that she had somewhat the
same feeling about him. Silently they were helping each other through a crisis.

"I hadn't thought of staying in Algeria," he answered her at last. "I don't suppose I shall
stay. But--I don't know. Just now my future's hidden behind a big cloud."

"Like mine!" cried Sanda DeLisle. "Does it comfort you at all to know there's some one here,
close to your side, who's walking in the dark, exactly as you are?"

It was the thought that had hovered, dim and wordless, in his own mind. "Yes, it does comfort
me," he said. "Though I ought to be sorry that things aren't clear for you. They will be, though,
I hope, before long."

"And for you," she added. "I wish we could exchange experiences when we've found out what's
going to become of us. I wish you were going on to Sidi-bel-Abbés."

"I wish I were," Max said, and he did actually wish it.

"Will you write and tell me what happens to you?" she rather timidly asked.

"I should like to. It's good of you to care."

"It's not good, but I do care. How could I help it, after all you've done for me?"

"You'll never know what it was to me to have the chance. And will you write what your father's
verdict is? If you should be going back, perhaps I----"

"Oh, I shall not be going back!" the girl cried, with sharp decision. "But I'll write. And
I shall never forget. If men disappoint me--though I hope, oh, so much, they will not--I shall
remember one loyal friend I have made. After last night and to-day, we couldn't be less than
friends, could we? even though we never hear from each other again."

"Thank you for saying that. I feel it, too, more than you can," Max assured her. "But since
we're to be friends, will you let me help you all I can, and see you again on shore, before
we go our separate ways? Let me find out about your train, and take you to it, and so on; and
perhaps you'll dine with me, if there's time before you start."

"How good you are!" She gave him one of those soft, sweet glances, which, unlike Billie Brookton's
lovely looks, were prompted by no conscious desire to charm. "But you will be so busy with
your own affairs!"

"Not too busy for that. I don't suppose it will be very difficult to get at what I've come
for. I shall soon know--one way or the other. I may have to go on somewhere else, but one day
won't matter. I can give myself a little indulgence, if it's for the last time."

So they settled it. Max was to be "St. George" and keep off dragons for a few hours more.

The General Morel was supposed to do the distance between Marseilles and Algiers in twenty-four
hours, but on this trip she had an unusually good excuse to be late. The storm had delayed
her, and every one was thankful that it was only half-past three when the ship steamed into
the old "pirate city's" splendid harbour.

Max Doran and Sanda DeLisle stood together watching the Atlas mountains turning from violet
blue to golden green, and the clustered pearls on hill and shore transform themselves into
white domes. The two landed together, also, and Sanda let Max go with her in a big motor omnibus
to the Hotel Saint George, the hotel of her patron saint, whose name Max remembered well because
of postcards picturing its beautiful terrace and garden, sent him long ago by Rose when he
was a cadet at West Point. They discovered that the first train in which Sanda could leave
for Sidi-bel-Abbés would start at nine o'clock that evening, so the proposed dinner became
possible; and Sanda, by the advice of Max, took a room at the hotel for the rest of the day,
inviting him to have tea with her on the terrace at five, if he were free to come back.

He waited until the girl had disappeared with a porter and her hand-luggage, and then inquired
of the concierge whether the Hotel-Pension Delatour still existed. He put the question carelessly,
as though it meant nothing to him, adding, as the man paused to think, that he had looked in
vain for the name in the guide-book.

"Ah, I remember now, sir," said the concierge. "There used to be a hotel of that name, close
to the old town--the Kasbah; quite a little place, for commercants, and people like that. Why,
yes, to be sure! But the name has been changed, five or six years ago it must be. I think it
is the Hotel-Pension Schreiber now."

"Oh, and what became of Delatour?" Max heard himself ask, still in that carefully careless
tone which seemed to his ears almost too well done.

"I'm not sure, sir, but I rather think he died. Yes, now I recall reading something in La Depeche
Algerienne, at the time. He'd been a brave soldier, and won several medals. There was a paragraph,
yes, with a mention of his family. He came from the aristocracy, it said. Perhaps that's why
he didn't turn out a good man of business. Or maybe he drank too much or took to drugs. These
old retired soldiers who've seen hard fighting in the South often turn that way."

"Did he leave a widow and children?" Max went on, his throat rather dry.

"That I can't tell you, sir; but Delatour's successor might know. I could send there, if----"

"Thank you. I'll go myself," said Max.

The concierge advised a cab, although there was of course the tram which would take him close
to the Hotel Schreiber, and then he could inquire his way. Max chose the tram. He had thought
it not unfair to pay the expenses of his quest for the Doran heiress with Doran money, since
he had little left that he could call his own. But he had not spent an extra dollar on luxuries;
and after a journey from New York to Paris, Paris to Algiers, second-class, a tram as a climax
seemed more suitable than a cab.

Where the Arab town--old and secret, and glimmering pale as a whited sepulchre--huddled away
from contact with Europe, a narrow street ran like a bridge connecting West with East, to-day
with yesterday. Near the entrance to this street, where it started from a fine open place of
great shops and cafés, the Hotel Schreiber stood humbly squeezed in between two dull buildings
as shabby as itself.

"In a few minutes I shall know," Max said to himself, as he walked into a cheaply tiled, dingy
hall, smelling of cabbage-soup and beer.

Commercial travellers' sample boxes and trunks were piled in the dim corners, and a fat, white
little man behind a window labelled "Bureau" glanced up from some calculations, with keen interest
in a traveller who for once looked uncommercial.

His eyes glazed again when he understood that Monsieur wished only to make inquiries, not to
engage a room. He was civil, however, and glib in French with a South-German accent. Madame
Delatour had sold her interest in the hotel to him, Anton Schreiber. Unfortunately there had
been a mortgage. The widow was left badly off, and broken-hearted at her husband's death. With
what little money she had, she had gone to Oran, and through official influence had obtained
a concession for a small tobacconist business, selling also postcards and stamps. She ought
to have done well, for there were many soldiers in Oran. They all wanted tobacco for themselves
and postcards for their friends. But Madame lost interest in life when she lost Delatour--a
fine fellow, well spoken of, though never strong since some fever he had contracted in the
far South. A friend in Oran had written Schreiber the last news of poor Madame Delatour. That
broken heart had failed. She had died suddenly about two years ago, and the girl (yes, there
was a daughter, a strange young person) had been engaged through the influence of Schreiber's
Oran friends, to assist the proprietor of the Hotel Splendide at Sidi-bel-Abbés. She was, Schreiber
believed, still there, in the position of secretary; unless she'd lately married. It was some
months since he'd heard.

Sidi-bel-Abbés.... Home of the Foreign Legion; home perhaps, of Sanda DeLisle!...

       *       *       *       *       *

It was all over, then. The blow had fallen, and Max thought that he must be stunned by it,
for he felt nothing, except a curious thrill which came with the news that he must go to Sidi-bel-Abbés.
The Arab name rang in his ears like the sound of bells--fateful bells that chime at midnight
for birth or death. It seemed to him that Something had always been waiting, hidden behind
a corner of life, calling him to Sidi-bel-Abbés, calling for good or evil, for sorrow or happiness,
who could tell? but calling. And his whole past, with its fun and popularity and gay adventure,
its one unfinished love story, its one tragic episode, had been a long road leading him on
toward this day--and Sidi-bel-Abbés.

The temptation to go back, to forget his mission, a temptation which had come to life many
times after it had first been "scotched, not killed," did not now lift its head. Max had found
out within less than an hour after landing that which would make him penniless and nameless;
yet his most pressing wish seemed to be to get back in time for his appointment with Sanda
DeLisle, and tell her that he, too, was going to Sidi-bel-Abbés.

CHAPTER VII

SIR KNIGHT

Max hurried back to the St. George, knowing that he would be late, and arrived somewhat breathless
on the terrace, at a quarter-past five. Miss DeLisle would forgive him when he explained. And
he would explain! He was half minded to tell everything to the one human being within four
thousand miles who cared.

It was March, and the height of the season in Algiers. Many people were having tea on the flower-draped
terrace framed by a garden of orange trees and palms, and cypresses rising like burnt-out torches
against the blue fire of the African sky. Max's eyes searched eagerly among the groups of pretty
women in white and pale colours for a slim figure in a dark blue travelling dress. Sanda had
said that she would come out to take a table and wait for him; but he walked slowly along without
seeing, even in the distance, a girl alone. Suddenly, however, he caught sight of a dark blue
toque and a mass of hair under it, that glittered like molten gold in the afternoon sun. Yes,
there she was, sitting with her back to him, and close to a gateway of rose-turned marble pillars
taken from the fountain court of some old Arab palace. But--she was not alone. A man was with
her. She was leaning toward him, and he toward her, their elbows on the little table that stood
between them.

The man sat facing Max, who recognized him instantly from many newspaper portraits he had seen--and
the photograph in Sanda's bag. It was Richard Stanton, poseur and adventurer, his enemies said,
follower and namesake of Richard Burton: first white man to enter Thibet; discoverer of a pigmy
tribe in Central Africa, and--the one-time guardian of Sanda DeLisle.

Max had thought vaguely of the explorer as a man who must be growing old. But now he saw that
Stanton was not old. His face had that look of eternal youth which a statue has; as if it could
never have been younger, and ought never to be older. It was a square face, vividly vital,
with a massive jaw and a high, square forehead. The large eyes were square, too; very wide
open, and of that light yet burning blue which means the spirit of mad adventure or even fanaticism.
The skin was tanned to a deep copper-red that made the eyes appear curiously pale in contrast;
but the top of the forehead, just where the curling brown hair grew crisply up, was very white.

The man had thrown himself so completely into his conversation with the girl, that Max, drawing
nearer, could stare if he chose without danger of attracting Stanton's attention. He did stare,
taking in every detail of the virile, roughly cut features which Rodin might have modelled,
and of the strong, heavy figure with its muscular throat and somewhat stooping shoulders. Richard
Stanton was not handsome; he was rather ugly, Max thought, until a brief, flashing smile lit
up the sunburnt face for a second. But it was in any case a personality of intense magnetic
power. Even an enemy must say of Stanton: "Here is a man." He looked cut out to be a hero of
adventure, a soldier of fortune, and in some sleeping depth of Max's nature a hitherto unknown
emotion stirred. He did not analyse it, but it made him realize that he was lonely and unhappy,
uninterestingly young; and that he was a person of no importance. He had come hurrying back
to the hotel, anxious to explain why he was late; but now he saw--or imagined that he saw--even
from Sanda's back, her complete forgetfulness of him. He might have been far later, and she
would not have known or cared. Perhaps she would be glad if he had not come at all.

Max had until lately been subconsciously aware (though it was nothing to be proud of!) that
he was rather an important personage in the eyes of the world. He had been a petted child,
and flattered and flirted with as a cadet and a young officer, one of the richest and best
looking at his post. Suddenly he stood face to face with the fact that he had no longer a world
of his own. He was an outsider, a nobody, not wanted here nor anywhere. If he could have stolen
away without danger of rudeness to Sanda, he would have gone and left her to Stanton, even
though by so doing he lost his chance of seeing her again. But there was the danger that, after
all, she had not quite forgotten him, and that she might be taking it for granted that he would
keep his appointment. He decided not to interrupt the eager conversation at this moment, but
to hover near, in case Miss DeLisle looked around as if thinking of him. He hardly expected
her to do so, until the talk flagged, but perhaps some subtle thought-transference was like
a reminding touch on her shoulder. She turned her head and saw Max Doran. For an instant she
gazed at him half dazedly, as if wondering why he should be there. Her face was so transfigured
that she was no longer the same girl; therefore it did not seem strange that she should have
forgotten so small a thing as an invitation to tea given to a chance acquaintance. Instead
of being pale and delicately pretty, she was a glowing, radiant beauty. Her dilated eyes were
almost black, her cheeks carnation, her smiling lips not coral pink, but coral red. She made
charming little gestures which turned her instantly into a French girl. "Oh, Mr. Doran!" she
exclaimed. "Here is Mr. Stanton. Only think, he's staying in this hotel, and we found each
other by accident! I came out here and he walked past. He didn't know me--it's such ages since
I saw him--till I spoke."

Max had felt obliged to draw near, at her call, and to stand listening to her explanation;
but it was clear that to Stanton he was irrelevant. The explorer had spread a folded map on
the table. It was at that they had been looking, and as Sanda talked to the newcomer, Stanton's
eyes returned to the map again. Max must have been dull of comprehension indeed if he had not
realized that he was wanted by neither. The girl followed up her little preamble by introducing
her new friend to her old one, and the explorer half rose from his chair, bowing pleasantly
enough, though absent-mindedly; but there was nothing for Max to do save to excuse himself.
He apologised by saying that his business would keep him occupied for the rest of the afternoon,
and that he must forego the pleasure of having tea with Miss DeLisle. The expression of the
girl's face as she said that she was very sorry contradicted her words. She was evidently enchanted
to have Stanton to herself, and Max departed, smiling bitterly as he thought of his impatience
to give her the news. This was what all her pretty professions of friendship amounted to in
the end! He had been a fool to believe that they meant anything more than momentary politeness.
She had not referred to his invitation for dinner, so had probably forgotten it in the flush
of excitement at meeting her hero. It seemed cruel to recall it to her memory, as by this time
no doubt Stanton and she were planning to spend the evening together, up to the last moment.
Still, the situation was difficult, as she might remember and consider it an engagement. Max
decided at last to send a card up to her room, where she would find it when her tête à tête
with Stanton was over. He scribbled a few words in pencil, saying that his business would be
over in an hour; that if Miss DeLisle cared to see him he would be delighted; but she must
not consider herself in any way bound. He did not even mention the fact which a little while
ago he had been eager to tell: that he was going to Sidi-bel-Abbés. Perhaps, as Stanton was
a friend of Colonel DeLisle's, he, too, was on his way there, in which case Max would lurk
in the background. The card, in an envelope, he gave to the concierge, and then went gloomily
out to walk and think things over. Passing the terrace he could not resist glancing at the
table nearest the marble pillars. The two still sat there, absorbed in each other, their heads
bent over the map. Stanton looked up as if in surprise when a waiter appeared with a tray.
They had apparently asked for tea, and then forgotten the order.

During that hour of absence Max Doran passed some of the worst moments of his life. He lived
over again his anguish at Rose's death; heard again her confession which, like a sharp knife,
with one stroke had cut him loose from ties of love; and gazed ahead into a future swept bare
of all old friendships, luxuries, and pleasures. His "business," of which he had made much
to Miss DeLisle, consisted solely in walking down the Mustapha hill from the garden of the
Hotel St. George to the small white-painted post-office, and there sending off two telegrams.
One was to Edwin Reeves: the other was the message for which Billie Brookton had thriftily
asked in her special postscript. "Have lost everything," he wrote firmly. "Will explain in
letter following and ask you to treat it in confidence. Good-bye, I hope you may be happy always.
Max."

As he paid for the telegrams he wondered that the framing of Billie's did not turn one more
screw of the rack which tortured heart and brain, but he felt no new wrench in the act of giving
up the girl whom all men wanted. She seemed strangely remote, as if there had never been any
chance of her belonging to him. Max had something like a sensation of guilt because he could
not call up a picture of her, traced with the sharp clarity of an etching. In thinking of Billie,
he had merely an impressionist portrait: golden hair, wonderful lashes, and a sudden upward
look from large, dark eyes, set in a face of pearly whiteness. Because Sanda DeLisle was somewhat
of the same type, having yellow-brown hair, and a small, fair face, her image would push itself
in front of that other far more beautiful image; far more beautiful at least, save in the one
moment of glowing radiance which had illumined Sanda, as a rose--light within might illumine
a pale lily. No woman on earth could have been more beautiful than she, at that instant; but
the magic fire had been kindled by, and for, another man; and if Max had not already guessed,
it would have revealed her whole secret.

The impression was so vivid that it clouded everything else, just as a white light focussed
upon one figure on the stage dims all others there. He thought of himself, and what he should
do with life after his mission was finished; whether he should take the name of Delatour, which
was rightfully his, or choose a new one; yet suddenly, in the midst of some pressing question,
he would forget to search for the answer, as Sanda DeLisle's transfigured face seemed to shine
on him out of darkness.

He stayed away from the hotel for precisely an hour, and then, returning, asked at the desk
of the concierge whether there were a message for him. Yes, there was a letter. Max took it,
thinking that this was perhaps the last time he should ever see the name of Doran on an envelope
addressed to him. The direction had been scrawled in haste, evidently, but even so, the handwriting
had grace and character. Its delicacy, combined with a certain firmness and impulsive dash,
expressed to Max the personality of the writer. The letter was of course from Miss DeLisle;
a short note asking if he would look for her on the terrace at six-thirty. She would be alone
then. Max glanced at the hall clock. It wanted only three minutes of the half hour, and he
went out at once. The scene on the terrace was very different from what it had been an hour
ago. It might have been "set" for another act, was the fancy that flashed through the young
man's mind. The hyacinth-pink of the sunset-sky was now faintly silvered with moonlight. All
the gay groups of tea-drinking people had disappeared. Many of the crowding chairs had been
taken away from the little tables and pushed back against the irregular wall of the house.
The floor was being slowly inlaid with strips of shadow-ebony and moon-silver. Even the perfume
of the flowers seemed changed. Those which had some quality of mystery and sensuous sadness
in their scent had prevailed over the others.

At first Max saw no one, and supposed that Miss DeLisle had not yet come to keep the appointment;
but as he slowly paced the length of the terrace, he discerned, standing on the farther side
of the pillar-gateway, a figure that paused close to the carved balustrade and looked out over
the garden. There was a suggestion of weariness and discouragement in the pose, and though
the form had Sanda's tall slimness he could hardly believe it to be hers, until passing through
the gateway he had come quite close to her. She turned at the sound of footsteps; and in the
rose-and-silver twilight he could see that her eyes were full of tears.

Somehow it struck him as characteristic of the girl that she should not try to pretend she
had not been crying. He could scarcely imagine her being self-conscious enough to pretend anything.

"Is it half-past six already?" she asked, in a very little voice, almost like that of a child
who had been punished. "I'm glad you've come. Will you forgive me?"

"Forgive you for what?" Max asked, though he guessed what she meant, and added hastily, "I'm
sure there's nothing to forgive."

"Yes, there is," she insisted; "you know that as well as I do. But you will forgive me, because--because
I think you must have understood. I was not myself at all."

Max hesitated and stammered. He did not dare admit how well he had understood, though it seemed
a moment for speaking clear truths, here in this wonderful garden which they two had to themselves,
with the magic light of sunset and moonrise shining into their souls.

"You needn't be afraid of shaming me," the girl went on. "I felt that you understood everything,
so we can talk now, when I've come back a little to myself. I didn't mind your seeing, then,
because everything seemed unimportant except--just him, and my being there with him. And I
don't mind even now, because there's so much that's the same in my life and yours. I feel (as
I felt before I was carried out of myself) that we've drifted together at a time when we can
help each other. You can forgive me for being selfish and thoughtless to you, because I was
at a great moment of my life, and you realized it. Didn't you?"

"Yes," said Max.

"I've always adored him. He was the one I meant, of course, when I told you about caring for
somebody," Sanda confessed. "You see, my father has never let me love him, in a personal sort
of way. He has held me off, though I hope it's going to be different when he sees me. Sir Knight
(that's what I always called Richard, ever since I was small) was very kind whenever he had
time. He didn't mind my worshipping him. He never wrote, because he was too busy; but when
he came home from his wonderful expeditions and adventures, he generally had some present for
me. I've always followed him as far as I could, through the newspapers, and--I knew he was
somewhere in Algeria now. I'm afraid--that's partly what made my wish to come so--terribly,
irresistibly strong. I didn't quite realize that, until I saw him. Honestly, I thought it was
because I couldn't live with my aunts any longer, and because I wanted so much to win my father
before it was too late. But meeting Richard here, unexpectedly, when I imagined him somewhere
in the South, showed me--the truth about myself. I'd been so anxious for you to come back,
and to hear all that had happened to you; but meeting him put everything else out of my head!"

"It was natural," said Max. "You wouldn't be human if it hadn't."

"I think it was inhuman. For when I remembered--other things, I didn't seem to care. I was--glad
when you said you had business and couldn't stay to tea. I hoped you'd forget that you'd asked
me to dinner, because I wanted so much to have it with Sir Knight--with Richard. I thought
he'd be sure to invite me, and take me to the train afterward. I was going to apologize to
you as well as I could; but even if you'd been hurt, I was ready to sacrifice you for him."

"Please don't punish yourself by confessing to me," Max broke in. "Indeed it's not necessary.
I----"

"I'm not doing it to punish myself," Sanda exclaimed. "I've been punished--oh, sickeningly
punished!--already. I'm confessing to you because--I want our friendship to go on as if I hadn't
done anything ungrateful and cruel to spoil it. I'm trying to atone."

"You've done that a thousand times over," Max comforted her, feeling that he ought to be comforted
at the same time, yet aware that it was not so. He began to realize that he was boyishly jealous
of the great man whose blaze of glory had made his poor rushlight of friendship flicker into
nothingness.

"Then if I have atoned, tell me quickly your news," said the girl.

"The news is, that I haven't any past which belongs to me--and God knows whether I've a future."
Max gave lightness to the sombre words with a laugh.

"Then the worst has happened to you?"

"One might call it that." Still he managed to laugh.

"Are you very miserable?"

"I don't know. I haven't had time to think."

"Don't take time--yet. Stay with me, as we planned before--before----"

"But Mr. Stanton? Aren't you----"

"No, I'm not. He left me fifteen minutes after you went. I shan't see him again."

"Not at the train?"

"No, not anywhere. You see, he has such important things to do, he hasn't time to bother much
with--with a person he still thinks of as a little girl. Why, I told you, he would hardly have
known me if I hadn't spoken to him! He's going away to-morrow, leaving for Touggourt. There
are all sorts of exciting preparations to make for a tremendous expedition he means to undertake,
though it will be months before he can be ready to start. He can think of nothing else just
now. Oh, it was only 'How do you do?' and 'Good-bye' between us, I assure you, over there at
the little tea-table I'd been keeping for you and me."

"It didn't look like anything so superficial," Max found himself trying once more to console
her. "I'm sure it must really have meant a lot to him, meeting you. I could see even in the
one glance I had, how absorbed he was----"

"Yes, in his map! He was pointing out his route to me, after Touggourt. He's chosen Touggourt
for his starting-place, because the railway has just been brought as far as there. And there's
a man in Touggourt--an old Arab explorer--he wants to persuade to go with him if he's strong
enough. He--and some other Arab Richard came to Algiers to see, are the only two men alive,
apparently, who firmly believe in the Lost Oasis that Sir Knight means to try to find, when
he can get his caravan together, and start across the desert early next autumn after the hot
weather."

"The Lost Oasis? I never heard of it," said Max. "Is there really such a place somewhere?"

"Richard doesn't know. He only believes in it; and says nearly every one thinks he's insane.
But you must have heard--I thought every one had heard the old legend about a Lost Oasis--lost
for thousands of years?"

"I'm afraid not. I haven't any desert lore." As Max made this answer, last night's dream came
back, rising for an instant before his eyes like a shimmering picture, a monochrome of ochre-yellow.
Then it faded, and he saw again the silver sky behind darkening pines, plumed date-palms, the
delicate fringe of pepper trees, and black columns of towering cypress.

"All mine has come from Sir Knight: stories he's told me and books he's given me. Long ago
he talked about the Lost Oasis. I thought of it as a thrilling fairy story. But he believes
it may exist, somewhere far, far east, beyond walls of mountains and shifting sand-dunes, between
the Sahara and the Libyan deserts."

"Wouldn't other explorers have found it, if it were there?"

"Lots have tried, and been lost themselves: or else they've given up hope, after terrible privations,
and have struggled back to their starting-place. But Richard says he has pledged himself to
succeed where the rest have failed, or else to die. It was awful to hear him say that--and
to see the look in his eyes."

"He's done some wonderful things," Max said, trying to speak with enthusiasm.

"Yes; but this seems different, and more terrifying than any of his other adventures, because
in them he had men for his worst enemies. This time his enemy will be nature. And its venturing
into the unknown--almost like trying to find the way to another world. Everybody knew there
was a Thibet and a Central Africa, and what the dangers would be like there; but no one knows
anything of this place--if it is a place."

"What's the story that makes Mr. Stanton feel the thing is worth risking?" Max asked.

"The story is, that there's a blank in Egyptian history which could be filled up and accounted
for, if a great mass of people had moved away and begun a new civilization somewhere, safe
from all the enemies who had disturbed them and stolen their treasure."

"Splendid story! But it sounds as much of a fable as any other myth, doesn't it?"

"It might, if there hadn't been other stories of lost oases which have proved to be true."

"I never heard of them," Max confessed his ignorance.

"Nor I, except from Sir Knight. He says that only lately people have found several oases south
of Tripoli, which were talked about before in the same legendary way as this one he's going
to search for. Only a few people know about them now: but they are known. And they're inhabited
by Jews who fled by tribes from the Romans when Solomon's Temple was destroyed, in the reign
of the Emperor Titus. They never trade, except with each other, but have everything they need
in their hidden dwelling-places. They speak the ancient language that was spoken in Palestine
all those centuries ago, and wear the same costume, and keep to the same laws. That's why Sir
Knight thinks the greater Lost Oasis may exist, having been even better hidden than those.
There was a famous explorer named Rholf who believed that he'd found traces of a way to it,
but he lost them again. And there were Caillaud and Cat, and other names he spoke of to-day,
that I've forgotten. I wish, though, that he were not going--or else that I could go with him,
in the way I used to plan when I was small." The girl paused and sighed.

"What way?"

"Oh, it was only nonsense--silly, romantic nonsense, that I'd got out of books. I used to make
up stories about myself joining Sir Knight on some expedition, dressed as a boy, and he not
recognizing me." She laughed a little. "I constantly saved his life, of course! But now we
won't talk of him any more. You and I will make up a story about ourselves. We're alone on
a desert island, and we have to find food and shelter, and be as comfortable and as happy as
we can. In the story, you have cause to hate me, but you don't, because you're generous. So
you forage for game and fruit, and help me to escape. Which means, if you've really forgiven
my horridness, that you'll take pity on me and ask me to dine with you before you put me into
my train as you promised."

"I will do all that," said Max, almost eagerly. "And if you'll let me I'll go with you in the
train to Sidi-bel-Abbés."

"Oh, no!" she exclaimed. "I couldn't consent to such a sacrifice."

"I must go either by your train or another."

"Why--why?"

"I've found out that the woman I came to search for is not only alive, but living at Sidi-bel-Abbés."

"It's Fate!" the girl half whispered. "But what Fate? What does it all mean?"

"I've been asking myself that question," Max said, "and I can't find an answer--yet."

CHAPTER VIII

ON THE STATION PLATFORM

They dined together in a glass-fronted restaurant opening out on to the terrace, and Sanda
was sweet, but absent-minded. Max could guess where her thoughts were, and almost hated Stanton.
How could the man let some wretched engagement, with a few French officers, keep him from this
poor little girl who adored him? How could Stanton let her go alone to meet her unnatural father
(it was thus that Max thought of Colonel DeLisle) when as her one-time guardian he might have
taken her to Sidi-bel-Abbés himself, and persuaded his old friend, DeLisle, to be lenient.
All that Max had heard against the explorer came back to him, and he was ready to believe Stanton
the cruel and selfish egoist that gossip sketched him. Poor Sanda!

Miss DeLisle had meant to finish her long journey as she had begun it, second-class; but Max
persuaded the girl to let him take for her a first-class ticket, with coupé lit, in a compartment
for women, as far as the station where at dawn they must change for Sidi-bel-Abbés. She was
surprised at the smallness of the price, but did not suspect that she owed her new friend anything
more substantial than gratitude for all the trouble he had taken for her comfort.

Max himself went second-class, packed in with seven men who would have thought opening the
window a symptom of insanity.

One of the seven was the man with whom Sanda DeLisle had chatted on board the General Morel
at dinner. He was the hero of the compartment, for he was going to Sidi-bel-Abbés to fight
a boxing match with the champion of the Legion, a soldier named Pelle. Four of the travellers
(three men of Algiers and a youth of Sidi-bel-Abbés) were accompanying the French boxer, having
met him at the ship.

Dozing and waking, Max heard excited talk of la boxe and the coming event. He was vaguely interested,
for he had been the champion boxer of his regiment--a hundred years ago!--but he was too weary
in body and mind to care much about a match at Sidi-bel-Abbés. When he was not trying to sleep,
he was mentally composing a letter to his colonel, with discreet explanations, and a justification
of his forthcoming immediate resignation from the army: or else a written explanation of his
farewell to Billie, following up the telegram; or thinking out business directions to Edwin
Reeves. Suddenly, however, as he was dully wondering how best to send the heiress to New York
without going back himself, a name spoken almost in his ear had the blinding effect of a searchlight
upon his brain.

"La petite Josephine Delatour," said the young man who lived at Bel-Abbés. He was evidently
answering some question which Max had not caught.

"The handsomest, would you call her?" disputed a commercial traveller, who also knew the town.
"Ah, that, no! she is too strange, too bizarre."

"But her strangeness is her charm, mon ami! She has eyes of topaz, like those of a young panther.
If she were not bizarre, would she--a little nobody at all--be strong enough to draw the smart
young officers after her? There are girls in Bel-Abbés, daughters of rich merchants, who are
jealous of the secretary at the Hotel Splendide. Before she came, it was only the officers
of high rank who messed there. Now it is also the lieutenants. It is not the food, but Mademoiselle
Josephine who attracts!"

"Once upon a time she thought me and my comrades good enough for a flirtation," said the commercial
traveller. "But she looks higher in these days, especially since her namesake in the Spahis
joined his regiment at Bel-Abbés. She told me they had found out that they were cousins."

"The lieutenant doesn't go about boasting of the relationship," laughed the youth from Bel-Abbés.
"He comes to my father's café, which is the best in the town, as you well know. If any one
speaks to him of la petite, he laughs: and it is a laugh she would not like."

Max's ears tingled. He felt as if he were eavesdropping. He wished to hear more, though at
the same time it seemed that he had no right to listen. Luckily or unluckily, the boxer broke
in and changed the subject.

Early in the morning, passengers for Sidi-bel-Abbés had to descend from the train going on
to Oran, and take a slow one, on a branch line. It was a very slow one, indeed, and it was
also late, so that it would be nearly midday and the hour for dejeuner when they reached their
destination. Max saw himself inquiring for Mademoiselle Delatour just at the moment when the
admirers of her topaz eyes were assembling for their meal. He did not like the prospect; but
said nothing of his own worries to Sanda, whom he joined on changing trains. Now the meeting
with her father was so near, she had to hold her courage with both hands. She had realized
for the first time that she would not know where to look for Colonel DeLisle. He might be in
barracks. She could hardly go to him there. He would perhaps be angry, should a girl arrive,
announcing herself as his daughter, at the house where he had rooms. The third alternative
was the Hotel Splendide, where he took his meals. He might already be there when she reached
Sidi-bel-Abbés. What a place for a first meeting! Max agreed, sympathetically. It seemed that
everything at Sidi-bel-Abbés must happen at the Hotel Splendide!

"If you could only be with me and help, as you have helped me all along!" she sighed. "Though
of course you can't. If Sir Knight had come---- But I couldn't easily explain you to my father.
At least, not just at present."

Max saw this, even more clearly than she saw it. It would indeed be difficult for a strange
new daughter to explain in a few brief words a still more strange young man to such a person
as Colonel DeLisle. If he were to be introduced or even mentioned at all, Max felt that it
would have to be later, and must depend on the word of the redoubtable colonel. He suggested
to Sanda as discreetly as he could that he would keep out of her way at the hotel, unless she
summoned him. But, he added, he would have to be there for a short time at all events, because
his business was taking him precisely to the Hotel Splendide.

"The person you're looking for is staying there?" asked Sanda.

"She's the secretary of the hotel." Max hesitated an instant, then, realizing from the words
he had overheard how conspicuous a character Josephine Delatour evidently was, he thought best
to tell Sanda something more of his story than he had told her yet. He sketched the version,
vindicating his foster-mother, which he had given to Billie Brookton and the Reeveses--a version
which all the world at home would, he believed, soon hear.

"So that is it?" said Sanda. "You're giving up everything to this girl. Do you think she will
take it?"

"I wish I were as sure of what I shall do next as I am sure of that," laughed Max. If there
had ever been any doubt in his mind as to Josephine's attitude, it had vanished while listening
to the talk of her in the train.

"I know what you ought to do next," Sanda said. "You ought to be what you have been--a soldier."

"I shall always be, at heart, I think," Max confessed. "But soldier life is over for me, so
far as I can see ahead."

"I wonder----" she began eagerly, then stopped abruptly.

"You wonder--what?"

"I daren't say it."

"Please dare."

"I mustn't. It would be wrong. I might be horribly sorry afterward. And yet----"

She silenced herself with a little gasp. He urged her no more, but stared almost unseeingly
out of the window at the roofed farmhouses, and the yellow hills, like reclaimed desert, with
bright patches of cultivation, and a far, floating background of the blue Thesala mountains.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sidi-bel-Abbés at last! and the train slowing down along the platform of an insignificant station,
which might have been in the South of France, save for a few burnoused Arabs. There was a green
glimpse of olives and palms, and taller plane trees, under a serene sky; and in the distance
the high fortified walls of yellow and dark gray stone, which ringed in the northernmost stronghold
of the Foreign Legion.

"Sidi-bel-Abbés!" a deep voice shouted musically from one end of the platform to the other,
as the train came in; and the name thrilled through Max Doran's veins as it had not ceased
to thrill since yesterday. More strongly than ever he had the impression that some great things
would happen to him here, or begin to happen, and carry him on elsewhere, beyond those yellow
hills. Deep down in him excitement stirred in the dark, like a dazed traveller up before the
dawn, groping for the door through which he must pass to begin his journey. All the more quietly,
however, because of what he secretly felt, Max took Sanda's bag and his own, and gave her a
hand for the high step from the train to platform. There they became units in a crowd strange
to see at a little provincial station; a crowd to be met at few other places in the world.

The French boxer was not the only guest of importance this train brought to Sidi-bel-Abbés.
At the far end of the platform, where the first-class carriages had stopped, a group of officers
in full dress were collected round a man who wore civilian clothes awkwardly, as an old soldier
wears them. There was the sensationally splendid costume of the Spahis; scarlet cloak and full
trousers; the beautiful pale blue of the Chasseurs d'Afrique, and a plainer uniform which Max
guessed to be that of the Foreign Legion. The boxer had his committee de réception also; a
dozen or more dark, fat, loud-talking proprietors of cafés, or tradefolk keen on "le sport."
These, and the lounging Arabs, might have interested strangers to Sidi-bel-Abbés, if there
had been nothing better worth attention. But owing to the lateness of the train, it had come
in almost simultaneously with another made up of windowless wagons for men, horses or freight,
which had not yet discharged its load. Out from the wide doorway of the long car labelled "32
hommes, 6 chevaux," was streaming an extraordinary procession; tall, bearded men with the high
cheek-bones and sad, wide-apart eyes of the Slav: a blond, round-cheeked boy whose shy yet
stolid face could only have been bred in Germany, or Alsace; sharp-featured, rat-eyed fellows
who might have been collected at Montmartre or in a Marseilles slum; others who were nondescripts
of no complexion and no expression; waifs from anywhere; a brown-skinned Spaniard and an Italian
or two; a Negro with the sophisticated look of a New York "darkee"; a melancholy, hooded Arab,
and a fierce-faced Moor; types utterly at variance, yet with one likeness which bound them
together like a convict's chain: weariness and stains of long, hard travelling, which thrust
the few well-dressed men down to the level of the shabbiest. Some were almost middle aged;
some were youths hardly yet at the regulation enlistment age of eighteen; a few one might take
for broken-down gentlemen; more who looked like workmen out of a job, and one or two unmistakably
old soldiers, eager-eyed as lost dogs who had found their way home: a strange gathering of
individuals to find stumbling out of a freight train at a country station of a French colony;
but this was Sidi-bel-Abbés, headquarters of La Legion Etrangére: and as the tired, dirty men
tumbled out on to the platform, everybody stared openly as a corporal with a high képi, a buttoned-back
blue overcoat, and loose, red trousers tucked into military boots, formed the crew into lines
of four.

Even the officers at the end of the platform gazed at the soiled scarecrows who had to be made
into soldiers: for this being Sidi-bel-Abbés, there was no difficulty in guessing that the
twenty-eight or thirty men of six or seven nations were recruits of the Legion of Foreigners.
The draggled throng was quietly indicated to the visitor in civilian clothes, who nodded appreciatively
and then turned away. But the boxer's brigade explained the unfortunate wretches so loudly
and unflatteringly to their guest that haggard faces flushed and quivering lips stiffened;
while at the gateway of exit, a motionless row of non-commissioned officers, watching for deserters,
regarded "les bleus" critically, yet indifferently.

Max, whose quick imagination made him almost painfully sensitive for others, felt hot and sorry
for the men herded together by misfortune. He had read sensational stories of the Foreign Legion,
and found himself hypnotized into looking for brutal jowls of escaped murderers, or faces of
pallid aristocrats in torn evening clothes, splashed with blood. Among these men of mystery
or sorrow there were, however, few startling types which caught the eye. But one man--young,
tall, straight as an arrow--running the gauntlet of jokes and stares with fierce, repressed
defiance, turned suddenly to look at Max and Sanda.

Where to place him in life, Max could not tell. He might be prince or peasant by birth, since
prince and peasant are akin at heart, and ever remote from the middle-classes as from Martians.
He wore a soft, gray felt hat, smeared with coal-dust from the engine. The collar of his dusty
black overcoat was turned up; it actually looked like an evening coat. His trousers were black
too, and Max had an impression of patent leather shoes glittering through dust. But these details
were only accessories to the picture, and interesting because of the wearer's face. It was
dark as that of a Spaniard from Andalusia, with the high, proud features of an Indian. It had
been clean-shaven a few days ago; and from two haggard hollows a pair of wild black eyes flashed
one glance at Max--the only man who had not seemed to stare. Face and look were unforgettable.
It seemed to Max that some appeal had been flung to him. He could hardly keep himself from
striding after the tall figure, to ask: "What is it you want me to do?" And Sanda also had
been impressed. He heard her murmur under her breath, "Poor man! What wonderful eyes!"

Nobody moved from the platform until the corporal had called the roll of names--German, French,
Spanish, Italian, Russian, Arab--and had marched his batch of recruits briskly through the
guarded gate. Max would have hurried Sanda out directly behind them, before the crowd could
secure all the queer, old-fashioned cabs which were waiting, but at that moment the smart group
of officers moved forward. Having shown their guest one of the sights of Sidi-bel-Abbés, they
evidently expected to take precedence of the townspeople, who gave no sign of disputing their
right. Max, following the example of others and resisting an impulse to salute, stood back
with his companion to let the uniforms pass. Sanda, pink with excitement, was as usual all
unconscious of self, and vividly interested both in recruits and officers. The latter, especially
the young ones, were equally interested in the pretty, well-dressed girl, a stranger in Sidi-bel-Abbés
and the one woman on the platform.

Max saw the polite but admiring glances, and would have liked to draw her further away. He
bent down to whisper a suggestion, but Sanda did not hear. Her face, her whole personality,
had undergone one of those swift changes characteristic of her.

With a fluttering cry, she started forward, then stepped nervously back, and, stumbling against
Max's foot, would have fallen if he had not caught her.

All his attention was for her, yet, with his eyes on the girl, he suddenly became conscious
that something had happened among the officers. One man had stopped abruptly just in front
of Sanda, while others were going through the gate, hurrying on as if tactfully desirous to
get themselves out of the way. A voice murmured "Mon Dieu!" and having steadied Sanda, Max
saw standing close to them a small, rather dapper man with a lined brown face, a very square,
smooth-shaven jaw, long gray eyes, short gray hair, and the neat slimness of a West Point cadet.
He had on his sleeve the five gold stripes signifying a colonel's rank, and was decorated with
several medals.

Instantly Max understood the situation. The one thing that ought not to have happened, had
happened.

CHAPTER IX

THE COLONEL OF THE LEGION

All Sanda's anxiously laid plans were swept away in the wind of emotion. She and the father
she had meant to win with loving diplomacy had stumbled upon each other crudely in a railway
station. The dear resemblance upon which she had founded her best hope had struck Colonel DeLisle
like a blow over the heart.

The dapper little officer, with the figure of a boy and the face of a tragic mask, stared straight
at the girl, with the look of one who meets a ghost in daylight. "My God! who are you?" he
faltered, in French. The words seemed to speak themselves against his will.

Sanda was deathly pale. But she caught at her courage as a soldier grasps his flag: "I am--Corisande,
your daughter," she answered in that small, sweet voice of a child with which she had begged
Max to pardon her, yesterday. And she too spoke in French. "My father, forgive me if I've done
wrong to come to you like this. But I was so unhappy. I wanted so much to see you. And I've
travelled such a long way!"

For an instant the man still stared at her in silence. He had the air of listening for a voice
within a voice, as one listens through the sound of running water for its tune. Max, who must
now unfortunately be explained and accounted for in spite of every difficulty, found a strange
likeness between the middle-aged soldier and the young girl. It was in the eyes: long, gray,
haunted with thoughts and dreams. If Sanda DeLisle ever had to become acquainted with sorrow
her eyes would be like her father's.

The pause was but for a second or two, though it was full of suspense for the girl, and even
for Max, who forgot himself in anxiety for her. The hardness of straining after self-control
melted to sudden beauty, as Max had seen Sanda's face transfigured. Never again, it seemed
to him--no matter what Colonel DeLisle's actions might be--could he believe him to be cruel
or cold.

"Ma petite," DeLisle said, with a quiver in his voice that echoed up from heartstrings swept
by some spirit hand. "Can it be true? You have come--across half the world, to me?"

"Oh, father, yes, it is true. And always I've wanted to come." Sanda's voice caressed him.
No man could have resisted her then. "You're not angry?"

"Mon Dieu, no, I'm not angry, though my life is not the life for a girl. I only--for a moment
I thought I saw----"

"I know, I guessed," Sanda gently filled up his pause. "Since I began growing into a woman
every one told me I was like--her. But I wouldn't send you a photograph. For years I've planned
to surprise you--and make you care a little, if I could."

"Care!" he echoed, a look as of anguish passing over his face like the shadow of a cloud; then
leaving it clear, though sad with the habitual sadness which had scored its many lines. "You
have surprised me, indeed. But----" He stopped abruptly, and apparently for the first time
noticed the young man standing near. Stiffening slightly, Colonel DeLisle looked keenly at
Max, his eyes trying to solve the new puzzle. "But--my daughter, you have come to me with----"

"Only a friend," Sanda broke in desperately, blushing up to her bright hair. "A kind friend,
Mr. Doran, an American who had to travel to Sidi-bel-Abbés on business of his own, and who's
been more good to me than I can describe. I want him to let me tell you all about him, and
then you will understand."

"I thank you in advance, Monsieur," said Colonel DeLisle, unbending again, and a faint--a very
faint--twinkle brightening his eyes, at the thought of the error he had nearly made, and because
of Doran's blush at being mistaken for an unwelcome son-in-law.

"I've done nothing, Monsieur le Colonel," stammered Max. "I had to come. I have business with
a person at the Hotel Splendide. It is Mademoiselle who is kind to me in saying----"

"Could he not take me to the hotel to wait for you?" Sanda cut in. "I shouldn't have interrupted
you in such a place as this, and at such a time, my father, if I could have helped doing so,
even though I recognized your face from the old photograph that is my treasure. But acting
on impulse is my greatest fault, the aunts all say. And when I saw you I cried out before I
stopped to think. Then I drew back, but it was too late. I have taken you from some duty."

"I came officially with my comrades to meet General Sauvanne, who is visiting our Algerian
garrisons," said DeLisle. He glanced again at Max, giving him one of those soldier looks which
long experience has taught to penetrate flesh and bone and brain down to a man's hidden self.
"It is true that I have no right to excuse myself for my own private affairs." He hesitated,
almost imperceptibly, then turned to Max. "Add to your past kindness by taking my daughter
to the hotel, Monsieur, where in my name she will engage a room for herself--since, unfortunately,
I have no home to offer her. I will go with you both to a cab, and then return to duty. My
child, I will see you again before dejeuner."

Max's quick mind promptly comprehended the full meaning of Colonel DeLisle's seemingly unconventional
decision. Not only was he being made friendly use of, in a complicated situation, but Sanda's
father wished all who had seen the girl arrive with a man to know once for all that the man
had his official approval. Soon Sanda's relationship to the Colonel of the First Regiment of
the Foreign Legion would be known, and there must be no stupid gossip regarding the scene at
the station. As they passed the other officers and their guests (who for these few dramatic
moments had discreetly awaited developments, outside the platform gate), Colonel DeLisle lingered
an instant to murmur; "It is my daughter, who has come unexpectedly. A young friend whom I
can trust to see her to the hotel will take her there, and I am at your service when I have
put them into a cab."

"What do you think?" cried Sanda, as the rickety vehicle rattled them toward the nearest gate
of the walled town. "Have I failed with him--or have I succeeded?"

"Succeeded," Max answered. "Don't you feel it?"

"I hoped it. Oh, Mr. Doran, I am going to love him!"

"I don't wonder," Max said. "I'm sure he's worth it."

"Yet I saw by your look when I spoke of him before, that you were thinking him heartless."

"I had no right to think anything."

"I gave you the right, by confiding in you. But I didn't confide enough, to do my father justice.
I knew he wasn't heartless, though he couldn't bear the sight of me when I was a baby, and
put me out of his life. He has always said that a soldier's life was not for a young girl to
share. I knew he had a heart, because of that, not in spite of it. It was that he loved my
mother so desperately, and I'd robbed him of her. Now you've seen him, you must let me tell
you a little----"

"Would he wish it?"

"Yes, if he knew why, and if he knew you, and what you are going through at this time. He fell
in love with my mother at first sight in Paris, and she with him. He was on leave, and she
was there with her parents from Ireland. He'd never meant to marry, but he was swept off his
feet. Mother's people wouldn't hear of it. They took her home in a hurry, and tried to make
her marry some one else. She nearly did--because they were stronger than she. She wrote father
a letter of good-bye, to his post in the southern desert, where he was stationed then. He supposed,
when he read the letter, that she was already married when he got it. But suddenly she appeared--as
unexpectedly as I appeared to-day. She'd run away from home, because she couldn't live without
him. Oh, how well I understand her! Think of the joy! It was like waking from a dreadful dream
for both of them. They were going to be married at once, though mother was half dead with fatigue
and excitement after her long, hurried journey; but on their wedding eve she was taken ill,
and became delirious. It was typhoid fever. She had got it somehow on the journey. She had
come without stopping to rest, from Dublin to Touggourt, where father was stationed. They say
it's wild there even now. It was far wilder then, more than twenty-one years ago. He nursed
mother himself, scarcely eating or sleeping: not taking off his clothes for weeks. One of his
aunts--my great-aunt--told me the story. It came to her from a friend of father's. He never
spoke of it. For three months mother wasn't out of danger. Father was her nurse, her doctor,
not her husband. But at last she was well again. They had their honeymoon in a tent in the
desert. She loved the desert, then--or thought she did. Afterward, though, she changed, for
I was coming, and she was ill again. By that time they were stationed still farther south.
She grew so homesick for the north that my father got leave. They started to travel by easy
stages through the desert, with a small caravan. Their hope was to reach Algiers, and to get
to France long before the baby should come; but the heat grew suddenly terrible, and one day
they were caught in a fearful sandstorm. My mother was terrified. I was born two months before
the time. That same night she died, while the storm was still raging; and before she went,
she begged my father to promise, whatever happened, not to leave her body buried in the desert.
He did promise. And then began his martyrdom. The caravan could not march fast because of me.
A negro woman who'd come as mother's maid took care of me as well as she could, and fed me
on condensed milk. Strange I should have lived.... My father had his men make for my mother's
body a case of many tins, which they spread open and soldered together, with lead from bullets
they melted. In the next oasis they cut down a palm tree and hollowed out the trunk for a coffin.
They sealed up the tin case in it, and the coffin travelled on the camel mother had ridden
when she was alive, in one of those beautiful hooded bassourahs you must have seen in pictures.
At night the coffin rested in my father's tent, and he lay beside it as he had lain beside
my mother when she lived, and they were happy. Because she'd been a Catholic, and because she'd
always hated the dark, father burned candles on the coffin always till dawn; and the men who
loved him looked for wild flowers in the desert to lay upon it. He had forty days, and forty
nights, marching through the desert with the dead body of his love, before they came to the
railway. Then he took mother to France, and left me with his two aunts there. Now do you wonder
he never loved me, or wanted to have me with him?"

"No, perhaps not," said Max. Deep sadness had fallen upon him. He was in the desert with the
man beside whose agony his own trial was as nothing. All the world seemed to be full of sorrow
and pain sharper than his own personal pain. And as the girl asked her question and he answered
it, their cab passed the procession of recruits for the Foreign Legion, tramping along between
tall plane trees toward the town gate.

Once again a pair of tortured black eyes looked at Max, who winced as the thick yellow dust
from the wheels enveloped the marching men.

"Will you let me tell my father your story, as I have told you his?" Sanda asked.

"Do as you think best," he said.

In another moment the cab had rolled past a few gardens and villas, a green plateau and a moat,
and passed through a great gateway. Overhead, carved in the stone, were the words "Porte d'Oran,"
and the date, 1855. Once, when the town was young, the gates had been kept tightly closed,
and through the loopholes in the stout, stone wall (the old part yellow, the newer part gray)
guns had been fired at besieging Arabs, the tribe of the Beni Amer, who had worshipped at the
shrine of the dead Saint, Sidi-bel-Abbés. But all that was past long ago. No hope of fighting
for the Legionnaires, save over the frontier in Morocco, or far away in the South! The shrine
of Sidi-bel-Abbés stood neglected in the Arab graveyard. Even the meaning of the name, once
sacred to his followers, was well-nigh forgotten; and all that was Arab in Sidi-bel-Abbés had
been relegated to the Village Négre, strictly forbidden as Blue Beard's Room of Secrets, to
the Soldiers of the Legion.

Inside the wall everything was modern and French, except for a few trudging or labouring Arabs
in white, or in gray burnouses of camel's hair made in Morocco. As the daughter of the Legion's
colonel drove humbly in her shabby cab to the Hotel Splendide, she felt vaguely depressed and
disappointed in the town which she expected to be her home. She had fancied that it would be
very eastern, with mosques and bazaars, and perhaps surrounded with desert; but there was no
desert within many miles; and there was only one minaret rising in the distance, like a long
white finger to mark the beginning of the Village Négre. Instead of bazaars, there were new
French shops and a sinister predominance of drinking places of all sorts: a few "smart" cafés,
with marble-topped tables on the pavement, but mostly dull dens, appealing to the poorest and
most desperate. The town was like a Maltese cross in shape, the arms of the cross being wide
streets, each leading to a gate in the fortifications; Porte d'Oran, Porte de Tlemcen, Porte
de Mascarra, and Porte de Daya; and the one great charm of the place seemed to be in its trees;
giant planes which made arbours across the streets, giving a look of dreaming peace, despite
the rattle of wheels on roughly set paving-stones.

There were middle-aged buildings, low and small and dun-coloured, exactly like those of every
other French-Algerian settlement, but big new blocks of glittering white gave an air of almost
ostentatious prosperity to the place. There was even an attempt at gayety in the ornamentation,
yet there appeared to be nothing attractive to tourists, save the Foreign Legion, which gave
mystery and romance to all that would otherwise have been banal. Noise was everywhere, loud,
shrill, insistent; rumbling, shrieking, rattling, roaring. Huge wagons, loaded with purple-stained
cases of Algerian wine, bumping over the stones; strings of bells wound round the great horns
of horses' collars jingling like sleigh-bells in winter; whips in the hands of fierce-eyed
carters cracking round the heads of large, sad mules; hooters of automobiles and immense motor
diligences blaring; men shouting at animals; animals barking or braying, snorting or clucking
at men; unseen soldiers marching to music; a town clock sweetly chiming the hour, and, above
all, rising like spray from the ocean of din, high voices of Arabs chaffering, disputing, arguing.
This was the "Arabian Night's Paradise" that Sanda had dreamed of!

Presently the cab passed a great town clock with four faces (one for each of the four diverging
streets) and drew up before a flat-faced building with the name "Hotel Splendide" stretching
across its dim, yellow front. Inside a big, open doorway, stairs went steeply up, past piles
of commercial travellers' show trunks, and an Arab bootblack who clamoured for custom. At the
top Max Doran and his charge came into a hall, whence a bare-looking restaurant and several
other rooms opened out. On a gigantic hatrack like a withered tree hung coats and hats in dark
bunches, brightened with a few military coats and gold-braided caps. As Max and Sanda appeared,
an officer--youngish, dark, sharp-featured, with a small waxed moustache and near-sighted black
eyes--turned hastily away from a window, and with a stride added his cap and cloak to the hatrack's
burden. He had an almost childishly guilty air of not wishing to be caught at something. And
what that something was, Max Doran guessed with a queer constriction of the throat as he looked
through the window. This opened into a dim room, which was labelled "Bureau," and framed the
head and bust of a young woman.

Such light as there was in the hall fell full upon her short, white face, into her slanting
yellow eyes and on to the elaborately dressed red hair. She had been smiling at the officer,
but on the interruption of the strangers' entrance she frowned with annoyance. It was the frank,
animal annoyance of a beautiful young lynx, teased by having a piece of meat snatched away.
The eyes were clear in colour as a dark topaz, and full of topaz light. This was remarkable;
but their real strangeness lay in expression. They seemed not unintelligent, but devoid of
all human experience. They gazed at the newcomers from the little window of the bureau, as
an animal gazes from the bars of its cage, looking at the eyes which regard it, not into them;
near yet remote; a creature of another species.

The girl appeared to be well-shaped enough, though her strong white throat was short, and the
hands which lay on the wide window ledge were as small as a child's. Yet like a shadow thrown
on the wall behind her was a lurking impression of deformity of body and mind, a spirit cast
out of her, to point at something veiled. If there could have lingered in the mind of Max a
grain of doubt concerning Rose Doran's confession, it was burnt up in a moment; for the girl
was an Aubrey Beardsley caricature of Rose. No need to ask if this were Mademoiselle Delatour.
He knew. And this lieutenant in the uniform of the Spahis was the "namesake" of whom the men
had talked in the train.

CHAPTER X

THE VOICE OF THE LEGION

It was all far worse even than Max had expected; and the next few days were a nightmare. The
resemblance between the girl and her mother--once his mother, whom he had as a boy adored--made
the effect more gruesome.

Josephine Delatour was coarse minded and sly, inordinately vain, caring for nothing in life
except the admiration of such men as she had met and mistaken for gentlemen. Her way of receiving
the news of her change of fortune disgusted Max, sickened him so utterly that he could not
bear to think of her reigning in Jack Doran's house. She was torn between pleasure in the prospect
of being rich, and suspicious that there was a plot to kidnap her, like the heroine of a sensational
novel. She did not want to go to America. She wanted to stay in Sidi-bel-Abbés and triumph
over all the women who had snubbed her. She boasted of her admirers, and hinted that even without
money she could marry any one of a dozen young officers. But the one for whom she seemed really
to care--if it were in her to care for any one except herself--was the namesake of whom Max
had heard laughing hints.

At the time it had not occurred to him that the name of the alleged "cousin" must be Delatour;
but so it was though the dark young man with the waxed moustache spelled his name differently,
in the more aristocratic way, with three syllables. When Josephine boasted that, though he
was from a great family, with a castle on the River Loire, he called himself her cousin, Max
realized that the Lieutenant of Spahis must be a son or nephew of the de la Tour from whom
Rose and Jack had taken the château. So far, however, was Max Doran from being elated by this
tie of blood, that he mentally dubbed his relative a cad. It was all he could do to persuade
Josephine not to tell Raoul de la Tour that she had come into money, and a name as aristocratic
as his own--in fact, that she was qualifying as a heroine of romance. Only by appealing to
the crude sense of drama the girl had in her could she be prevented from stupidly throwing
out bait to fortune-hunters. But having wired again to Edwin Reeves, and hearing that Mrs.
Reeves, already in Paris, had started for Algiers, a plan occurred to Max. He advised Josephine,
if she thought that de la Tour cared for her, to tell him that she was giving up work in the
Hotel Splendide; also that she was leaving Sidi-bel-Abbés forever; and then see what he would
say. What he did say was such a blow to the girl's vanity that, when she was sure he had no
intention of marrying a poor secretary, she flung the dazzling truth at his face. Repentant,
he tried to turn his late insults into honest lovemaking; but the temper of the lynx was roused.
Never having deeply loved the man, she took pleasure in using her claws on him. In taunting
him with what he might have had, however, she let the identity of the newsbringer leak out.

De la Tour then warned her passionately against le jeune aventurier Americain, and almost frightened
the girl into disbelieving the whole story. But proofs were forthcoming, and with the landlord's
wife, who enjoyed sharing a borrowed halo, Josephine Delatour--or Josephine Doran--went to
Algiers to await Mrs. Reeves's arrival. Meanwhile, with the money she procured from Max, the
girl planned to buy herself a trousseau, and eventually departed, rejoicing in her lover's
discomfiture. Whether or no this attitude were safe with such a man remained to be seen. As
for Max--the messenger who had brought the tidings--since he showed no desire to flirt with
her, Josephine saw no reason to be interested in him. Besides, she could hardly believe that
he was not somehow to blame for having kept what ought to have been hers for his own all these
years. She had not loved her supposed father and mother, who had interfered with her pleasure,
disapproving of what they called her extravagance and frivolity.... There was no grief to the
girl in learning that the Delatours were not her parents.

Nor did it seem to Josephine that gratitude was due Max for resigning in her favour. She was
greedily ready to grab everything, without thanks, just as her lynx-prototype would snatch
a piece of meat, if it could get it, from another lynx. She grudged the years of luxury and
pleasure which she ought to have had; and could she have realized that she had made of Lieutenant
de la Tour an enemy for Max Doran, she would have been glad. It was right that two men should
quarrel over a woman.

While he was arranging Josephine's affairs, Max saw nothing of Sanda and Colonel DeLisle. He
had thought it best to take up his quarters at another hotel, and his only communication with
them was by letter. He wrote Sanda that when his business was finished he would make up his
mind what to do; but in any case he hoped that he might be allowed to bid her and Colonel DeLisle
farewell. In answer, came an invitation from the Colonel to see the Salle d'Honneur of the
Legion, the famous gallery where records of its heroes were kept. "That is," (Sanda said, writing
for her father) "if you are interested in the Legion."

"If he were interested in the Legion!" Already he was obsessed by thoughts of it. Sidi-bel-Abbés,
which at first had struck him as being a dull provincial town, now seemed the only place where
he could have lived through his dark hours. Elsewhere he would have felt surrounded by a gay
and happy world in which a man with his back to the wall had no place. Here at Sidi-bel-Abbés
was the home of men with their backs to the wall. The very town itself had been created by
such men, and for them. For generations desperate men, sad men, starving men, of all countries--men
who had lost everything but life and strength--had been turning their faces toward Sidi-bel-Abbés,
their sole luggage the secret sorrow which, once the Legion had taken them, was no one's business
but their own.

Max Doran could not go into the street without meeting at least a dozen men in the Legion's
uniform, who seemed akin to him because of the look in their eyes; the look of those cut off
from what had once meant life and love. What they were enduring was unknown to him, but he
was somehow at home among them. And the day Josephine went away, before he had yet made up
his mind to the next step, for the first time he heard the music of the Legion's band.

It was in the afternoon, and he had strolled outside the Porte de Tlemcen into the public gardens
for the music, only because he had an hour to pass before his appointment in the Salle d'Honneur.
In winter the band played in the Place Carnot, but on this soft day of early spring the concert
was announced for the gardens beloved by the people of Sidi-bel-Abbés. They were beautiful,
but to Max it seemed the beauty of sadness; and even there, outside the wall which dead Legionnaires
had built, everything spoke of the Legion. Men of the Legion had planted many of the tall trees
of the cloistral avenue, whose columnar trunks were darkly draped with ivy. Men of the Legion
swept dead leaves from the paths, as they swept away old memories. Men of the Legion walked
in the gray shadow of the planes, as they walked in the shadows of life. Men of the Legion
rested on the rough wooden benches, staring absently at mourning plumes of cypresses, or white
waterfalls that fleeted by like lost opportunities. Yes, despite the flowers in the myrtle
borders it was a place of sadness, and of a mournful silence until the musicians brought their
instruments into the curious bandstand formed of growing trees. Then it seemed to Max that
he heard the Legion speak in a great and wonderful voice.

As by studying a hive one feels the mysterious governing spirit, so he felt the spirit of the
Legion in its music, its restlessness, its longings, its passions, and its ambitions, uttered
and cried to heaven in prayers and curses. As individuals the men were dumb, guarding their
secrets, striving to forget; and it was as if this smothered fire, seeking outlet, had sprung
from heart to heart, kindling and massing all together in a vast, white-hot furnace. The music
opened the doors of this furnace, and the flames roared upward to the sky. In the dazzling
light of that strange fire, secrets could be read, if the eyes that saw were not blinded. Bitterness
and joy were there to see, and the blending of all passions through which men ruin their lives,
and need to remake their souls. Yes, that was the Legion's call. Men came to it, in the hope
of remaking their souls. With his own drowned in the music of pain and regeneration, Max went
to the Salle d'Honneur to meet Colonel DeLisle.

He knew where to find it, next to the barracks; a small, low building of the same dull yellow,
set back in a little garden with a few palms and flowerbeds. Inside the gate was a red, blue,
and white sentry box. But Max entered unchallenged, because at the door of the house stood
the colonel, who came down a step to meet him. "Monsieur Doran!" he exclaimed cordially, holding
out his hand.

"Will you still offer me your hand, sir," Max asked wistfully, though he smiled, "even if I've
no name any more, and no country that I can claim? Mademoiselle DeLisle has told you?"

"She has told me," echoed the elder man, shaking the younger's hand with extra warmth. "I congratulate
you on the chance of making a name for yourself. I think from what I hear, and can judge, that
you will do so, in whatever path you choose. Have you chosen yet?"

"Not yet," Max confessed. "Neither a name nor the way to make it. Nor the country most likely
to make it in."

"As for that"--and Colonel DeLisle smiled--"we of the Legion are more used to men without names
and without countries than to those who have them. Not that your case is allied to theirs.
Shall we go in? I want to thank you, as I've not been able to do yet, for your chivalrous behaviour
to my daughter. She has told me all about that, too--all. And I had a feeling that this room,
in which our Legion commemorates honourable deeds, would be a place where you and I might talk."

As he spoke he led Max into a short corridor, at the end of which hung a large frame containing
portraits and many names of men and battles with the crest of la Legion Etrangére at the top.
Pushing open a door at the right, DeLisle made way for his guest. "Here are all the relics
that are to us men of the First Regiment most sacred," he said. And as he passed in, he saluted
a flag preciously guarded in a long glass case: the flag of the regiment decorated with the
Cross of the Legion of Honour on an historic occasion of great bravery. An answering thrill
shot through Max's veins, for in them ran soldier blood. Involuntarily he, too, saluted the
flag and its cross. Colonel DeLisle gave him a quick look, but made no comment.

Two out of the four walls were covered with portraits of men in uniforms ancient and modern;
paintings, engravings, photographs; and the decorations were strange weapons, and torn, faded
banners which had helped the Legion to make history. There were drums and weird idols, too,
and monstrous masks and great fans from Tonkin and Madagascar, and relics of fighting in Mexico.
On the long table lay albums of photographs, and upon either side were ranged chairs as if
for officers to sit in council.

"Whenever we wish to do a guest honour, we bring him here," said the colonel. "We are not rich,
and have nothing better to offer; except, perhaps, our music."

"I have already heard the music," answered Max. "I shall never forget it. And I shall never
forget this room."

"Such music wakes the hearts of men, and helps inspire them to heroic acts like these." Colonel
DeLisle waved his hand toward some of the pictures which showed soldiers fighting the Legion's
most historic battles. "I am rather proud of our music and our men. This room, too, and the
things in it--most of all the flag. My daughter has spent hours in the Salle d'Honneur looking
over our records. Presently she will join us. But I wanted to thank you before she came. Corisande
is a child, knowing little of the world and its ways. Some men in your place would have misunderstood
her--in the unusual circumstances. But you did not. You proved yourself a friend in need for
my little girl, on her strange journey to me. I wish in return there might be some way in which
I could show myself a friend to you. Can you think of any such way?"

The voice was earnest and very kind. A great reaction from his first prejudice against the
speaker swept over Max. Beneath this one voice which questioned him and waited for an answer,
he heard as a deep, thrilling undertone the voice of the Legion which had called to him through
the music to come and share its bath of fire. A sudden purpose awoke in Max Doran, and he knew
then that it had been in the background of his mind for days, waiting for some word to wake
it. Now the word had come. All his blood seemed to rush from heart to head, and he grew giddy:
yet he spoke steadily enough.

"I have thought of a way, Colonel DeLisle!"

"I am glad. You have only to tell me."

"Accept me as one of your men. Let me join the Legion."

"Mon Dieu!" The Legion's colonel was taken completely by surprise. Max had thought he might
perhaps have expected the request, but evidently it was not so. The dapper little figure straightened
itself. And from his place beside his adored flag, Colonel DeLisle gazed across to the other
side where, close also to the flag, stood the young man he had wished to serve. Max met his
eyes, flushed and eager and, it seemed, pathetically young. There was dead silence for an instant.
Then DeLisle spoke in a changed tone: "Do you mean this? Have you thought of what you are saying?"

"I do mean it," Max replied. "I believe I have thought of it ever since I saw those men of
all countries getting out of the train to join the Legion. I felt the call they had felt. But
it is stronger to-day. I know now what I want. In the Salle D'Honneur of the Legion I decide
on my career."

"Decide!" the other repeated. "No, not that, yet! You have got this idea into your head because
you are romantic. You think you are ruined and that the future doesn't matter. You will find
it does. This is no place for poetry and romance--my God, no! It's a fiery furnace. In barracks
we should burn the romance out of you in twenty-four hours."

"If I've got more in me than any man who loves adventure ought to have, then I want it burned
out," said Max.

"Adventures will cost you less elsewhere," almost sneered DeLisle.

"I don't ask to get them cheap," Max still insisted. "Though I've got nothing to pay with,
except myself, my blood, and flesh, and muscles."

"That's good coin," exclaimed the elder, warming again. "Yet we can't take it. You may think
you know what you mean. But you don't know what the Legion means. I do. I've had nearly twenty
years of it."

"You love it?"

"Yes, it is my life. But--I have to remind you, I entered it as an officer. There is all the
difference."

"At least I should be a soldier. I know what a soldier's hardships are."

"Ah, not in the Legion!"

"It can't kill me."

"It might."

"Let it, then. I'll die learning to be a man."

DeLisle looked at his companion intently. "I think," he said, "you are a man."

"No, sir, I'm not," Max contradicted him abruptly. "I used to hope I might pass muster as men
go. But these last days I've been finding myself out. I've been down in hell, and I shouldn't
have got there if I were a man. I'm a self-indulgent, pining, and whining boy, thinking of
nothing but myself, and not knowing whether I've done right or wrong. If the Legion can't teach
me what's white and what's black, nothing can."

The colonel of the Legion laughed a queer, short laugh. "That is true," he said. "I take back
those words of mine about poetry and romance. You've got the right point of view, after all.
And you are the kind of man the Legion wants, the born soldier, lover of adventure for adventure's
sake. You would come to us not because you have anything to hide, or because you prefer barracks
in France to prison at home, or because some woman has thrown you over," (just there his keen
eyes saw the young man wince, and he hurried on without a pause) "but because we've made some
history, we of the Legion, and you would like a chance to make some for yourself, under this"--and
he pointed to the flag whose folds hung between them--"Valeur et Discipline! That's the Legion's
motto, for the Legion itself must be Dieu et Patrie for most of its sons. I've done my duty
as a friend in warning you to go where life is easier. As colonel of the First Regiment, I
welcome you, if you sincerely wish to come into the Legion. Only----"

"Only what, sir?"

"My daughter! She wanted me to help you. She'll think I've hindered, instead."

"No, Colonel. She hoped I'd join the Legion."

DeLisle looked surprised. "What reason have you for supposing that?"

"Interpreting a thing she said, or, rather, a thing she wanted to say, but was afraid to say
for fear I might blame her some day in the future."

"She, knowing nothing of the Legion, recommended you to join? That is strange."

"She knew a little of me and my circumstances. I'd been a soldier, and there seemed only one
convenient way for a man without a name or country to start and become a soldier again. Miss
DeLisle saw that."

"You're talking of me?" inquired Sanda's voice at the half-open door. Both men sprang to open
it for her. As she came into the Salle d'Honneur, she seemed to bring with her into this room,
sacred to dead heroes of all lands, the sweetness of spring flowers to lay on distant graves.
And as she stepped over the threshold, like a young soldier she saluted the flag.

"I have just said to Colonel DeLisle that you would approve of my joining the Legion," Max
explained. "Have I told him the truth?"

The girl looked anxiously from one man to the other. She was rather pale and subdued, as if
life pressed hardly even upon her. "You guessed what I wouldn't let myself say in the train
the other day!" she exclaimed. "But--you haven't joined, have you?"

"Not yet, or I shouldn't be here. The Salle d'Honneur is for common soldiers only when they're
dead, I presume."

"But you could become an officer some day, couldn't he, father?"

"Yes," replied Colonel DeLisle. "Every soldier of the Legion has his chance. And our friend
is French, I think, from what you've told me of his confidences to you. That gives an extra
chance to rise. France--rightly or wrongly, but like all mothers--favours her own sons. Besides,
he has been a soldier, which puts him at once ahead of the others."

"I shouldn't trade on that! I'd rather begin on a level with other men, not ahead of them,"
Max said hastily. "My object would be not to teach, but to learn--to cure myself of my faults----"

The colonel drew a deep breath, like a sigh. "We do cure men sometimes, men far more desperate,
men with souls far more sick than yours. There's that to be said for us."

"His soul isn't sick at all!" Sanda cried out, in defence of her friend.

"Perhaps he thinks it is." Colonel DeLisle looked at Max as he had looked after those chance
words of his about a woman.

"Do you think that, Mr. Doran?" the girl questioned incredulously. "I shall be disappointed
if you do."

"Don't be disappointed. I do not think my soul is sick. I want to see how strong it can be,
and my body, too. But you mustn't call me 'Mr. Doran' now, please. It isn't my name any more.
Colonel DeLisle, may I ask your daughter to choose a name for a new soldier of the Legion?
It will be the last favour, for I understand perfectly that after I've joined the regiment,
as a private soldier, you can be my friends only at heart. Socially, all intercourse must end."

"Oh, no, it wouldn't be so," Sanda cried out impulsively, though the old officer was silent.
"It wouldn't, if I were not going away."

"You are going away?" Max was conscious of a faint chill. He would have found some comfort
in the thought that his brave little travelling companion was near, even though he seldom saw
and never spoke to her.

"Not home to the aunts! I told you I'd never go back to live with them, and my father wouldn't
send me. But there's to be a long march---- Oh, have I said what I oughtn't? Why? Since he
must know if he joins? Anyhow, I can't stay here many days longer--I mean, for the present.
I'm to be sent to a wonderful place. It will be a great romance."

"Sanda, it is irrelevant to talk of that now," Colonel DeLisle reminded his daughter.

"Forgive me! I forgot, father. May I--name the new soldier, and wish him joy?"

DeLisle laughed rather bitterly. "'Joy' isn't precisely the word. If he hoped for it, he would
soon be disillusioned. You may give him a name, if he wishes it. But let me also give him a
few words of advice. Monsieur Doran----"

"St. George!" broke in Sanda. "That is to be his name. I christen him, close to the flag. Soldier,
saint, slayer of dragons." She did not add "my patron saint," but Max remembered, and was grateful.

"Soldier Saint George, then," DeLisle began again, smiling, "this is my advice as your friend
and well-wisher: again, I say, why should you not take advantages you have fairly earned? My
men are wonderful soldiers. I suppose in the world there can be none braver, few so brave;
for they nearly all come to heal or hide some secret wound that makes them desperate or careless
of life. They are glorious soldiers, these foreigners of ours! But at the beginning you will
see them at their worst in the dulness of barrack life. There are all sorts and conditions,
from the lowest to the highest. You may happen to be among some of the lowest. Why not start
where you are entitled to start? When, in being recruited, you are asked to state your profession,
you're at liberty to say what you choose. No statement as to name, age, country, or occupation
is disputed in the Legion. But once more, let me advise you, if you write yourself down "Soldier,"
things can be made comparatively easy for you."

"I thank you, sir, and I will take your advice in everything else. But I don't want things
made easy."

"You may regret your obstinacy."

"Oh, father," pleaded Sanda, "wouldn't you be the very one to do the same thing?"

"In his place," said Colonel DeLisle, shrugging his shoulders, "I suppose I should do what
he does. What I might do, isn't the question, however. But I've said enough.... Now I have
to get back to barracks. For you, Sanda, this must be 'good-bye,' I fear, to the friend of
your journey."

"My friend for always," the girl amended, holding out her hand to Max. "And I'd rather say
'Au revoir' than 'Good-bye'; we shall meet again--away in the desert, perhaps."

She caught her father's warning eye and stopped. "Good-bye, then--Soldier of the Legion."

"If he doesn't change his mind," muttered DeLisle. "There's still time."

Max looked from the girl to the flag in its glass case.

"I shall not change my mind," he said.

CHAPTER XI

FOUR EYES

Beyond the barracks of the Legion, going toward the Porte de Tlemcen, and opposite the drill-ground
and cavalry barracks of the Spahis, there is a sign: Bureau de Recrutement.

Early in the morning after taking his resolution, Max walked down the narrow, lane-like way
which led off from the Rue de Tlemcen and the long front wall of the Legion's barracks, and
found the door indicated by the sign.

In a bare office room, furnished with a table and a few benches, sat a corporal, busily writing.
He looked up, surprised to see such a visitor as Max, and was at some trouble to hide his amazement
on hearing that this well-dressed young man, evidently a gentleman, wished to enlist in the
Legion. Opening off the outer room, with its white-washed walls and display of posters tempting
to recruits, was another office, the Bureau du Commandant de Recrutement, and there Max was
received by a lieutenant, older than most of the men of that rank in the English or American
armies. Something in his manner made Max wonder if the officer had been told of him and his
intention by Colonel DeLisle. At first he put only the perfunctory questions which a man entering
the wide-open gate of the Legion may answer as he chooses. But when in its turn came an inquiry
as to the recruit's profession, the officer looked at Max sharply yet with sympathy.

"No profession," was the answer; a true one, for Max's resignation had already taken effect.

"At present, but--in the past?" the lieutenant encouraged him kindly. "If you have military
experience, you can rise quickly in the Legion."

For good or ill, Max stuck to yesterday's resolve, knowing that he might be weak enough to
regret it, and anxious therefore to make it irrevocable. "I have done some military service,"
he explained, "enough to help me learn my duties as a soldier quickly."

"Ah, well, no more on that subject, then!" and the lieutenant sighed audibly. "Yet it is a
pity, especially as you are of French birth and parentage, though brought up in America. Your
chance of promotion would--but let us hope that by good luck something may happen to give you
the chance in any case. Who knows but both your countries may be proud of you some day? Is
there--nothing you would care to tell me about yourself that might enable me to advise you later?"

"Nothing with which it is necessary to trouble you, my Lieutenant."

"Bien! It remains then only for you to be examined by the medecin major. You have nothing to
fear from his report. Au contraire!"

In an adjoining room two men were already waiting the arrival of the doctor, who was due in
a few minutes. One, evidently a Frenchman, with a dark, dissipated face, volunteered the information
that he was a chauffeur, whose master had discharged him without notice on account of an "unavoidable
accident" at a small town within walking distance of Sidi-bel Abbés. The other, a blond boy
who looked not a day over sixteen, announced that he was an Alsatian who had come to Algeria
as a waiter in a restaurant car, on purpose to join the Legion, and escape military service
as a German. "I shall serve my five years, and become a French subject," he said joyously.
"Take hold of my arm. Not bad, is it, for biceps? For what age would you take me?"

"Seventeen," replied Max, adding a year to his real guess.

But it was not enough. The girlish face blushed up to the lint-coloured hair, cut en brosse.
"I call myself eighteen," said the child. "Don't you think the doctor will believe me when
he feels my muscle?"

"I think he'll give you the benefit of the doubt," Max assured him, smiling.

"No trouble about my age!" exulted the chauffeur. "I am twenty-seven."

He looked ten years older. But a recruit for the Legion may take the age as well as the name
he likes best, provided the medecin major be not too critical.

Both his companions were keenly curious concerning Max, and considered themselves aggrieved
that, after their frankness, he should choose to be reserved. They put this down to pride.
But the Legion would take it out of him! All men were equal there. They had heard that among
other things.

Before the stream of questions had run dry through lack of encouragement, the door was thrown
open, and in walked the doctor, a big, jovial man, accompanied by the middle-aged lieutenant
who had shown interest in Max, and a weary-faced clerk plunged in gloom by a bad cold in the
head. As they entered, the two officers looked at Max, and glanced quickly at each other. They
had evidently been speaking of him. But his examination was left till the last. The chauffeur
of "twenty-seven" and the waiter of "eighteen" were passed as physically fit--bon pour le service:
and then came the turn of the third recruit, whose pale blue silk underclothing brought a slight
twinkle to the eye of the jolly medecin major. Max wished that it had occurred to him to buy
something cheaper and less noticeable. But it was too late to think of that now. At all events,
he was grateful for the tact and consideration which had given him the last turn.

"Magnifique!" exclaimed the doctor, when he had pinched and pounded Max, sounded heart and
lungs, and squeezed his biceps. "Here we have an athlete." And he exchanged another glance
with the lieutenant.

The clerk scribbled industriously and sadly in his book, as Max dressed himself again; and
the ordeal was over. When the third recruit of the day had been given a paper, first to read,
and then to sign with his new name, his contract for five years to serve the Republic of France
was made and completed. Maxime St. George was a soldier of the Legion.

He, with the ex-chauffeur and the ex-waiter, was marched by a corporal through a small side
gate into the barrack square; and the guard, sitting on a bench by the guardhouse, honoured
the newcomers with a stare. The chauffeur and the waiter got no more than a passing glance,
but all eyes, especially those of the sergeant of the guard, focussed on Max. Apparently it
was not every day that the little gate beside the great gate opened for a gentleman recruit.
Max realized again that he was conspicuous, and resigned himself to the inevitable. This was
the last time he need suffer. In a few minutes the uniform of the Legion would make him a unit
among other units, and there would be nothing to single him out from the rest. He would no
longer have even a name that mattered. In losing his individuality he would become a number.
But for a moment he felt like a new arrival in a Zoo: an animal of some rare species which
drew the interest of spectators away from luckier beasts of commoner sorts.

The trio of recruits stood together in an unhappy group, awaiting orders from the regimental
offices; and the news of their advent must have run ahead of them with magic speed, swiftly
as news travels in the desert, for everywhere along the front of the yellow buildings surrounding
the square, windows flew open, heads of soldiers peered out, and voices shouted eagerly: "Voilà
les bleus!" There were only three newcomers, and the arrival of recruits in the barrack square
was an everyday spectacle; but something to gaze at was better than nothing at all. Men in
fatigue uniform of spotless white, their waists wound round with wide blue sashes, came running
up to see the sight, before les bleus should be marched away and lose their value as objects
of interest by donning soldier clothes. Max recalled the day of his début at West Point, a
humble, modest "Pleb." This huge, gravelled courtyard, surrounded on three sides by tall, many-windowed
barracks, and shut away from the Rue de Tlemcen by high iron railings, had no resemblance to
the cadets' barracks of gray stone; but the emotions of the "Pleb" and of the recruit to the
Legion were curiously alike. The same thought presented itself to the soldier that had wisely
counselled the new cadet. "I must take it all as it comes, and keep my temper unless some one
insults me. Then--well, I'll have to make myself respected now or never."

"Les bleus! Voilà les bleus!" was the cry from every quarter: and discipline not being the
order of the moment for Legionnaires off duty, young soldiers and old soldiers gathered round,
making such remarks as occurred to them, witty or ribald. Les bleus were fair game.

As a schoolboy, Max had read in some book that, in the time of Napoleon First, French recruits
had been nicknamed "les bleus" because of the asphyxiating high collars which had empurpled
their faces with a suffusion of blood. Little had he dreamed in committing that fact to memory
that one day the name would be applied to him! Thinking thus, he smiled between amusement and
bitterness; but the smile died as a voice whispered in his ear: "For God's sake don't sell
your clothes to the Jews. Keep them for me. I'll get hold of them somehow."

The voice spoke in French. Max turned quickly, and could not resist a slight start at seeing
close to his, the face which had seized his attention days ago in the railway station.

The man who had then been dressed in dusty black was now a soldier of the Legion, in white
fatigue uniform, like all the rest: but the dark face and night-black eyes had the same arresting,
tragic appeal. After this whisper, the Legionnaire drew back, his look asking for an answer
by nod or shake of the head. Max caught the idea instantly. "By jove! the fellow has made up
his mind to desert already!" he thought. "Why? He hasn't the air of a slacker."

There was no language he could choose in this group made up from a dozen countries, which might
not be understood by one or all. The only thing was to trust to the other's quickness of comprehension,
as the speaker had trusted to his. He held out his hand, exclaiming: "C'est vous, mon ami!
Quel chance!"

The ruse was understood. His handclasp was returned with meaning. Every one supposed that le
bleu of four days ago and le bleu of to-day were old acquaintances who had found each other
unexpectedly.

There was no chance for private speech. A quick fire of interrogation volleyed at the three
recruits, especially at Max. "Are you French? Are you German? Are you from Switzerland--Alsace--Belgium--Italy--England?"
Questions spattered round the newcomers like a rain of bullets, in as many languages as the
countries named, and Max amused himself by answering in the same, whenever he was able.

"How many tongues have you stowed in that fly-trap of yours, my child?" inquired a thin, elderly
Legionnaire with a long nose and clever, twinkling eyes. No nation but Holland could have produced
that face, and it was unnecessary that the speaker should introduce himself as a Dutchman.
"Fourteen years have I served France in the Legion. I have been to Madagascar and Tonkin. Everywhere
I have found myself the champion of languages, which is only natural, for I was translator
in the State Department at home--a long while ago. But if you can speak eleven you will get
the championship over me. I have only as many tongues as I have fingers."

"You beat me by six," laughed Max, and the jealous frown faded.

"Encore un champion!" gayly announced the round-faced youth who had jocosely asked Max if he
were a Belgian. "Voilà notre joli heros, Pelle."

"Quatro oyos" ("Four Eyes") added a Spaniard. "Papa van Loo can beat you with his tongue; Four
Eyes beats with his fists."

Sauntering toward les bleus, with the manner of a big dog who deigns to visit a little one,
came a man of average height but immense girth. His great beardless face was so hideous, so
startling, that Max gaped at him rudely, lost in horror. Nose and lips had been partly cut
away. The teeth and gums showed in a ghastly, perpetual grin. But as if this were not enough
to single him out among a thousand, a pair of black, red-rimmed eyes had been tattooed on the
large forehead, just above a bushy, auburn line overhanging the eyes which nature had pushed
deeply in between protruding cheek and frontal bones.

"Good heavens!" Max blurted out aloud; and the Dutchman cackled with laughter. "You're no Frenchman,
boy!" he loudly asserted in English. "Now we've got at your own jargon. Go away, Mister Pelle,
you're frightening our British baby. Or is it Yankee?"

An angry answer jumped to the tip of Max's tongue, but he bit it back. So this living corpse
was Pelle, the champion boxer of the Legion, who would fight the Frenchman!

The new recruit was ashamed of the sick spasm of disgust that closed his throat. He felt that
it was a sign of raw youth and amateurishness, as when a medical student faints at first sight
of the dissecting table. He feared that his face had betrayed him to these soldiers, many of
whom had hardened their nerves on battlefields. Somehow he must justify himself, and force
respect from the men who greeted Van Loo's cheap wit with an appreciative roar.

Pelle was the only one who did not laugh. He came lumbering along in silence as if he had not
heard; but Max saw that the boxer was aiming straight for him. The newly christened St. George
stood still, waiting to see what the dragon would do. Within three feet of the recruit the
hero of the Legion came to a stop and looked the slim figure in civilian clothes slowly over
from head to foot, as Goliath may sarcastically have studied the points of David. The whole
group was hypnotized, enchanted, each man in white praying that it might be five minutes yet
before the corporal returned to shepherd his three lambs. Much can happen in five minutes.
Battles can be won or lost! and at anything Pelle might do, under provocation, the powers that
were would wink. Not an officer below the colonel but had money on the match which was to come
off in the barrack square to-morrow.

All four eyes of Quatro Oyos seemed to stare at the insignificant shrimp of a recruit. Max
had but two eyes with which to return the compliment, but he made the most of them. Pelle was
not only hideous: he was formidable. The big square head and ravaged face were set on a strong
throat. Chest and shoulders were immense, the arms too long, the slightly bowed legs too short.
Up went a sledgehammer hand, coated with red hair, to scratch the heavy jowl contemplatively,
and Max thought of a gorilla.

"So you don't think I'm pretty, eh?" the boxer challenged him, and Max started with surprise
at sound of the Cockney accent, which came with a hissing sound from the defaced mouth. Pelle
was an Englishman!

The start was misunderstood, not only by the champion of the Legion, but by the surrounding
Legionnaires, who tittered.

"Sorry if I was rude," remarked Max, with an air of nonchalance, to show that he was ready
for anything.

"That's no way to apologize," said Pelle. "Don't look at me like that. You'll have to learn
better manners in the Legion."

"A cat may look at a king," retorted the recruit. "And as for manners, I won't ask you to teach
them to me."

"Why, you damned little Yankee spy, do you want to be pinched between my thumb and finger as
if you was a flea?" bellowed the boxer.

"Try it, and you'll find the flea can bite before he's pinched," said Max. His heart was thumping,
for despite his knowledge of la boxe he knew that he might be pounded into a jelly in another
minute. This man was a heavyweight. He was a lightweight. But whatever happened he would show
himself game; and at that instant nothing else seemed much to matter.

Somewhat to his surprise, Pelle burst out laughing. "Hark to the bantam!" he exclaimed in French--execrable
French, but a proof that he was no newcomer in the Legion. "If you weren't a newspaper spy,
my chicken, I'd let you off for your cheek. But we have heard all about you. Lieutenant de
la Tour of the Spahis knows. He's told every one. It doesn't take long for news to get to the
Legion. I'm going to teach you not to write lies about us for your damned papers. We get enough
from Germany. So I shall make chicken jelly of you. See!"

"All right. Come on!" said Max, more cheerfully than he felt. For his one chance was in his
youth and the method he had learned from the lightweight champion of the world.

A ring formed on the instant, to screen as well as to see the spectacle. Here would be no rounds
timed by an official, no seconds to encourage or revive their men. The encounter, such as it
was, would be primitive and savage, asking no quarter and giving none. But Max felt that his
whole future in the Legion depended on its issue.

CHAPTER XII

NO. 1033

For a second the contestants eyed each other.

A strange hush seemed to fall upon all, a situation always present in affairs of this kind.
It was noticeable to Max. "It might well be said that a calm always preceded a storm," Max
reflected, and then he heard a voice speak close to his ear.

He dared not turn his head for fear of a sudden onslaught by his antagonist, but even as low
as the tone was, he recognized the voice--it was the same voice that had begged him stealthily
for his civilian clothes!

"Beware of his foot," said the voice. "He's English, but he fights French fashion with la savate."

Max had not expected the savate from an Englishman, and he was very glad of the warning.

It flashed through his brain just what the terrible savate could accomplish--a lightning-like
kick landing on the jaw of an adversary, being much more crushing and damaging than the hardest
punch.

The warning came just in time, for he had only a brief chance to steady himself when Four Eyes
rushed at him like a maddened bull.

As he neared Max he let go two terrific swings, first with his left and then with his right
hand, but his smaller opponent side-stepped with the nimbleness of a cat, and Pelle rushed
by two or three steps before he could stop.

At once he turned with a lithe movement, surprisingly graceful for a body so big, and made
ready as though to once more swing his two flail-like fists.

Again did Max set himself to dodge Pelle's punches, but instead of letting his two hands fly,
one after the other, he bent his huge body back from the waist, and at the same time shot his
right foot upward toward the other's face.

It was a fearful kick, and had it landed on Max's jaw it would have ended the fight then and
there, indeed, if it did not break his neck. But that whispered warning about the savate was
Max's salvation.

With a quick backward jerk of his head he saved himself--just barely saved himself--and the
big foot shot harmlessly up into the air, Pelle almost losing his balance in the unsuccessful
effort.

Before the latter could really regain his footing Max stepped in and, with left and right,
landed full on his opponent's face, the last of the two punches coming flush on the nose with
smashing force. It rocked the amazed Pelle back on his heels.

Moreover, the surprise at the force of the blow was not greater than the surprise at the sudden
knowledge of the fact that the "Yankee Spy" was no bungling amateur, but that he had all the
ear-marks of a skilled professional.

Well, he could not be fooled again, and on top of this thought came a heavy grunt as Max again
stepped in and swung a swift right hook to his stomach and then jumped out of harm's way.

This blow took Pelle's wind and he began to dance around on his toes with the lightness of
thistledown, despite his discomfiture, while all the time he watched the clever Max between
half-closed eyes, waiting for another chance to deliver that awful kick where it would surely
put the other out of business.

Now and then the big man would try an occasional swing at his elusive opponent, but it was
more of an attempt to cover up his real intention rather than to land effectively. Well he
knew that his best and quickest chance to end the fight lay in his ability to kick the other
man insensible, and so he tried to fool and disarm Max by a bluff attack.

In this manner they danced about each other for a short space; the American, apparently whenever
he chose, stepped in and landed left and right on the other's jaw with a sound like the crack
of a whip.

There was a snap to Max's punches, a snap that stung and made an impression, and so while the
big man almost exploded with fury at the gruelling he had to go through as his graceful adversary
jumped in and out and banged him, he still nursed his best blow--the murderous kick!--holding
it in reserve until the right moment.

Finally, in the course of Max's punishing onslaught, in which he was leaping in and out with
unceasing agility, he--stumbled! This was just what Pelle was waiting for, and then, like the
fillip of a spring-board, the heavy boot went toward Max's head!

Though he saw it start, and though he swung his head back, Max could not escape it altogether,
and it grazed his chin. For an instant the barrack yard and the white-clad ring of men swam
before his eyes. It seemed as though an iron bolt had entered his chin and gone through the
top of his head, but he did not quite lose all presence of mind, though he did bend away from
the other until he almost fell on his own back.

Pelle saw his advantage and, with a yelp of joy, jumped forward and swung his other foot. As
he did so reason returned to Max and with it came a blind rage at the other's unfairness.

With the quickness of a panther, and with the strength of ten men, he swung his slim body sideways
and then bent forward to let go a vicious right-hand swing--flush to the other's jaw!

The kick missed Max--missed him by a hair--but the punch landed, landed with every ounce of
bone and muscle behind it that Max had in his body.

Down crashed the champion on the back of his skull, with a thud amid a spatter of gravel!

For an instant the huge form lay still, while the ring of Legionnaires remained petrified.
Suddenly the group realized that the fighting cock had been beaten by the bantam.

Then, with visions of "cellule" for every one concerned, four or five men sprang to pick up
the champion. As they got him to his feet, blood poured from his swollen and disfigured nose.
Coming slowly to himself, Pelle wiped it away dazedly with the back of a hairy hand, anxious,
even in semi-consciousness, to preserve the purity of his uniform, sacred in the Legion.

Max stood his ground, rather expecting to be attacked in revenge by some of Pelle's angry allies;
and the man who had warned him to beware of "la savate" took a step nearer him. But both were
new to the Legion Etrangére, and did not yet know the true spirit of the regiment.

Only admiring looks were turned upon the astonished young conqueror, who was rather surprised
at his own easy victory. As Pelle came to himself in his friends' arms, the big fellow staggered
forward, holding out a bloodstained paw.

CHAPTER XIII

THE AGHA'S ROSE

Sanda did not know, and would not know for many days, the news of Sidi-bel-Abbés, for she had
started on a long journey, to the "wonderful place" of which she would have spoken to Max had
she not been warned by her father's word and look that the story was "irrelevant."

If Sanda had tried to tell the tale of that "romance" at which she had hinted in the Salle
d'Honneur, she would have had to begin far back in time when, after his wife's death, Georges
DeLisle had by his own request been transferred to the Legion. His first big fight had been
in helping the Agha of Djazerta against a raid of Touaregs, the veiled men of the South, brigands
then and always. Since those days, DeLisle and Ben Râana, the great desert chief, had been
friends. More than once they had given each other aid and counsel. When Ben Râana came north
with other Caids, bidden to the Governor's ball in Algiers, he paid DeLisle a visit. Each year
at the season of date-gathering he sent the colonel of the Legion a present of the honey-sweet,
amber-clear fruit for which the oasis of Djazerta was famous; and the officer sent to the Agha
a parcel of French books, or some new invention in the shape of a clock, such as Arabs love.
Now he was sending his daughter.

The way of it was this: just before Sanda's surprise arrival, the Agha of Djazerta, chief of
the Ouled-Mendil, had written a confidential letter to Colonel DeLisle. He had a young daughter
whom he adored. Foolishly (he began to think) he had let her learn French, and allowed her
to read French novels. These books had made the girl discontented with her cloistered life.
Being the only child, and always rather delicate, perhaps she had been too much spoiled. Greater
freedom than she had could not be granted; but seeing her sad Ben Râana had asked himself what
he could do for her happiness. Before long she would marry, of course; but it had occurred
to him that meanwhile it might be well if a companion could be found who would be a safe friend
for a girl of Ourïeda's position and religion. Did Colonel DeLisle know of any young gentlewoman,
English or French, who would be willing to come to Djazerta? She must be educated and accomplished,
but above all trustworthy; one who would not try to make Ourïeda wish for a life that could
never be hers: one who would not attempt to unsettle the child's religious beliefs. In writing
this letter Ben Râana had shown a naïf sort of conceit in his own broad-mindedness, which would
have been rather comic if it had not been pathetic. But to DeLisle it was only pathetic, because,
European though he was, he knew the hidden romance of the Agha's life: his worship of a beautiful
Spanish wife who had died years ago, and for love of whom he had vowed never to take into his
harem any other woman, although he had no son. His nearest male relative was a nephew, to whom
DeLisle imagined that some day Ourïeda would be married, though the young man was at least
a dozen years older than she.

When the letter came, Colonel DeLisle knew of no such person as Ben Râana asked for; but he
had not answered yet when Sanda unexpectedly appeared. Hardly had he recovered from the first
shock of his surprise when he remembered the great march soon to be undertaken--a march ostensibly
for maneuvers, but in reality to punish a band of desert raiders, and later, men of the Legion
were to begin the laying of a new road in the far south, even beyond Djazerta. There would
be no long rest for the colonel of the First Regiment for many months, consequently he would
be unable to keep Sanda with him. She did not want to go back to France or Ireland, so she
was told about the Agha of Djazerta and the sixteen-year-old girl, Ourïeda, whose Arab name
meant "Little Rose."

Next to staying at the headquarters of the Foreign Legion with its colonel, Sanda liked the
idea of going into the desert and living for a while the life of an Arab woman with the daughter
of a great chief of the south. The more she thought of it, the more it appealed to her. Besides,
when her father pointed out Djazerta on the map, and not more than twenty kilometres away the
douar, or tribal encampment under the rule of Ben Râana, she noticed that they seemed to be
scarcely a hundred kilometres distant from Touggourt. Probably Richard Stanton would be spending
many days or even weeks at Touggourt before he set off across vast desert spaces searching
for the Lost Oasis. So the girl said to Colonel DeLisle that, since she could not at present
stay with him, she would like beyond everything else such a romantic adventure as a visit to
the Agha's house.

The one objection was that, if she went at all, she must start at once, because there was at
the moment a great chance for her to travel well chaperoned. A captain of the Chasseurs d'Afrique
had just been ordered from Sidi-bel-Abbés to Touggourt, and was leaving at once with his wife.
They could take Sanda with them: and at Touggourt Ben Râana would have his friend's daughter
met by an escort and several women servants. It was an opportunity not to miss; though otherwise
Colonel DeLisle might have kept the girl with him for a fortnight longer.

Sanda would have liked to bid Max good-bye, or if that were not possible, to write him a letter.
But DeLisle said it "would not do." Not that the newly enlisted soldier would misunderstand:
but--he would realize why he heard nothing more from his colonel's daughter. She need not fear
that he would be hurt. So Sanda could send only a thought message to her friend, and perhaps
it reached him in a dream, for the night of her departure--knowing nothing of it--he was back
again in the dim cabin of the General Morel gazing through the dusk at a long, swinging plait
of gold-brown hair.

Sanda, with Captain Amaranthe and his wife, travelled to Oran, thence to Biskra, and from Biskra
on the newly finished railway line to Touggourt. It was there that, twenty-two years ago, the
beautiful Irish girl who had run away from home to her soldier lover, joined Georges DeLisle
and married him. Sanda thought of that, and thought again also that in a few months more Richard
Stanton would come to Touggourt for the getting together of his caravan. These two thoughts
transformed the wild desert town with its palms, and tombs of murdered sultans, and its frame
of golden dunes into a magical city of romance. She felt that some great thing ought to happen
to her there. It was not enough that Touggourt should give her a first glimpse of the true
Sahara. She wanted it to give her more. Nor was it enough that she should be met there by an
escort of Bedouins with a chief's nephew at their head, and negro women to be her servants,
and a white camel of purest breed for her to ride, she being hidden like an Arab princess in
a red-curtained bassourah. All this was wonderful, and thrilling as an Eastern story of the
Middle Ages; but it meant nothing to her heart. And something deep down in her expected more
of Touggourt even than this. She told herself that a place with such associations owed more
to a child of Georges DeLisle and Sanda De Lisle; and even when she and her cavalcade started
away from the great oasis city, winding southward among the dunes, she still had the conviction
that some day, before very long, Touggourt would pay its debt.

Ben Râana had done what he could to honour Colonel DeLisle through his daughter. He had sent
a fine caravan to fetch the girl to Djazerta, and according to the ideas of desert travellers,
no luxury was lacking for her comfort. His half-sister's son, Sidi Tahar Ben Hadj, had under
him some of the best men of the Agha's goum, and there were a pair of giant, ink-black eunuchs
to guard the guest and her two negresses. Silky-soft rugs from Persia lined her bassourah on
the side where she would sit, the balance being kept on the other by her luggage wrapped in
bundles; and the whole was curtained with sumptuous djerbi, striped in rainbow tints. Over
the djerbi, to protect her from the sun, or wind and blowing sand, were hung heavy rugs made
by the women of the Djebel Amour mountains, the red and blue folds ornamented by long strands
and woollen tassels of kaleidoscopic colours. Sanda's camel (like that of Ben Hadj and the
one which carried the two negresses) was a mehari, an animal of race, as superior to ordinary
beasts of burden as an eagle is nobler than a domestic fowl. There was a musician among the
camel-drivers, chosen especially--so said Ben Hadj--because he knew and could sing a hundred
famous songs of love and war. Also he was master of the Arab flute, and the räita, "Muezzin
of Satan," strange instrument of the wicked voice that can cry down all other voices.

Lest the men should misunderstand and think lightly of the Agha's guest, his nephew did not
look upon Sanda's face after the hour of meeting her at Touggourt, in the presence of her friends,
until he had brought the girl to his uncle's house, three days later. She was waited upon only
by the women and the two black giants who rode behind the white camels: and altogether Sidi
Tahar Ben Hadj was in his actions an example of that Arab chivalry about which Sanda had read.
Nevertheless she was not able to like him.

For one thing, though he had a fine bearing and a good enough figure (so far as she could tell
in his flowing robes and burnous), in looks he was no hero of romance, but a disappointingly
ugly man. Ourïeda, the Agha's daughter, was only sixteen, and Tahar was supposed to be no more
than a dozen years her elder, but he appeared nearer forty than twenty-eight. He had suffered
from smallpox, which had marred his large features and destroyed the sight of one eye. It had
turned white and looked, thought Sanda, like the eye of a boiled fish. He wore a short black
beard that, although thick, showed the shape of a heavy jaw; and his wide-open, quivering nostrils
gave him the look of a bad-tempered horse. Although he could speak French, he seemed to the
girl singularly alien and remote. Sanda wondered if he had a wife, or wives, and pitied any
Arab woman unfortunate enough to be shut up in his harem.

On the third morning the great dunes were left behind, and the bassourahs no longer swayed
like towers in a rotary earthquake with the movements of the camels. Far away across a flat
expanse of golden sand, silvered by saltpetre, a long, low cloud--blue-green as a peacock's
tail--trailed on the horizon. It was the oasis of Djazerta, with its thousands of date palms.

At first the vision seemed to float behind a veil of sparkling gauze, unreal as a mirage; but
toward noon it brightened and sharpened in outline, until at last the tall trees took individual
form, bunches of unripe dates beneath their spread fan of plumes hanging down like immense
yellow fists at the end of limp, thin arms cased in orange-coloured gloves.

There was a chott, or dried desert lake, glistening white and livid blue, full of ghostly reflections,
to cross; but once on the other side all the poetic romance of fairy gardens and magic mirrors
vanished. The vast oasis rose out of earthy sand and cracked mud; and the houses piled together
beyond it were no longer cubes of molten gold, but squalid, primitive buildings of sun-dried
brick crowding each other for shade and protection, their only beauty in general effect and
bizarre outline.

"Am I to live in one of those mud hovels?" Sanda wondered. She was not disheartened even by
this thought, for the novelty of the whole experience had keyed her up to enjoy any adventure;
still it was a relief to go swaying past the huddled town, and to stop before a high, white-washed
wall with a small tower on each side of a great gate. Over the top of the wall Sanda could
see the flat roof of a large, low house, not yellow like the others, but pearly white as the
two or three minarets that gleamed above the fringe of palms.

Somebody must have been watching from one of the squat towers by the gate--each of which had
a loophole-window looking out over the caravan way--for even before the head man of the cavalcade
could reach the shut portals of faded gray palm-wood, both gates were thrown open, and a dozen
men in white rushed out. They uttered shouts of joy at sight of Sidi Tahar Ben Hadj, as though
he had been absent for months instead of a few days, and some of the oldest brown faces bent
to kiss his shoulders or elbows.

Sanda saw a bare courtyard paved only with hard-packed, yellow sand; and the long front of
the house with its few small windows looked unsympathetic and unattractive. The girl felt disappointed.
She had imagined a picturesque house, a sort of "Kubla Khan" palace in the desert; and she
had expected that perhaps Ourïeda and her father, the Agha, would come ceremoniously out through
a vast arched doorway to welcome her. But here there was not even the arched entrance of her
fancy, only two small doors set as far as possible from one another in the blank façade. Sanda's
mehari was led in front of the eastern door, which was pulled ajar in a secretive way. One
of the big negroes helped her out of the bassourah as usual, when he had forced the white camel
to its knees; and to her surprise the other black man made of his long white burnous a kind
of screen behind which she might pass without being seen. The women servants--already out of
their bassourah--came hurrying along to join her, silver bracelets a-jingle, chattering encouragement
in Arab, scarcely a word of which could Sanda understand.

Inside the house was a queer kind of vestibule, evidently intended for defence, with a jutting
screen of wall behind the door, and then a passage with a sharp turn in it, and seats along
the sides. A very old, withered negro let them in; and still it seemed to the girl an unfriendly
greeting for her father's daughter, one who had come so far. But in a minute more she gave
a little cry of pleasure, and suddenly understood the mystery. This part of the house was the
harem, secret and sacred to the women, since the very meaning of the word "harem" is "hidden."

She had been ushered through a long, dim corridor, with a sheen of pink and purple tiles halfway
up the white wall to the dark wood of a roughly carved ceiling, and instead of coming into
a room at the end, she walked unexpectedly into a large fountain court, bright with the crystal
brightness of spraying water and the colour of flowers, shaded with orange trees whose blossoms
poured out perfume.

Perhaps it was not such a wonderful place really, for the house walls were only of sun-dried
sand-brick, white-washed till they gleamed like snow in sunlight; and the wooden balustrades
of the narrow balcony that jutted out from the upper story were but roughly carved in stars
and crescents, and painted brown to represent cedarwood. Yet it was a picture. The stem of
the octagonal tiled fountain was of time-worn, creamy marble; the white house was draped with
cascades of wistaria, and pale pink bougainvillea; underneath the shadow of the overhanging
balcony ran wall-seats covered and backed with charming old tiles of blue and white "ribbon"
design; on them were spread white woollen, black-striped rugs delicately woven by Kabyle women;
Tuareg cushions of stamped leather, and pillows of brilliant purple and gold brocade silk.
Though no grass carpeted the earthy sand, there were beds of gorgeous flowers under the orange
and magnolia trees that patterned the yellow sand with lacy shadow, and a girl like an Arabian
Nights' princess stopped feeding a tame gazelle and a troop of doves, to come forward shyly
at sight of Sanda. She was the soul of the picture for the moment. Sanda did not even see that
there were other women in it. Nothing counted except the girl. Everything else was a mere background
or a frame.

There was but a second of silence before words came to either, yet that instant impressed upon
Sanda so sharply, so clearly, every detail of Ourïeda's fantastic beauty, that if she had never
seen the girl again, she could by closing her eyes have called up the vision.

The oval face was so fair and purely chiselled that it seemed Greek rather than Arab. The golden-brown
eyes were large and full of dazzling light as the sun streamed into them under the curve of
their heavy black lashes. But though they were bright they were very sad, keeping their infinite
melancholy while the red lips smiled--the sad, far-off gaze of a desert creature caged. So
long were the lashes that they curled up almost to the low-drawn brows which drooped toward
the temples; and that droop of the eyebrows, with the peculiar fineness of the aquiline nose
and the downward curve of the very short upper lip, gave a fatal and tragic look to the ivory
face framed in dark hair. On either side its delicate oval fell a thick brown braid, not black,
but with a glint of red where the light struck; and though Ourïeda's hair was not so long as
Sanda's, the two plaits lying over the shoulders and following the line of the young bust fell
below the waist. The girl wore a loose robe of coral-red silk, low in the neck, and belted
in with a soft, violet-coloured sash. Over this dress was a gandourah of golden gauze with
rose and purple glints in its woof; and a stiff, gold scarf was wound loosely round the dark
head. The colours blazed like flaming jewels in the African sunshine. As the Agha's daughter
moved forward smiling her sad little smile, there came with her a waft of perfume like the
fragrance of lilies; and the tinkling of bracelets on slender wrists, the clash of anklets
on silk-clad ankles, was like a musical accompaniment, a faintly played leit motif. Perhaps
Ourïeda had dressed herself in all she had that was most beautiful in honour of her guest.

As usual, Sanda forgot herself with the first thrill of excitement. In her admiration she did
not realize that the other girl was self-conscious, a little frightened, a little anxious,
and even distrustful. It would have seemed incredible to Sanda DeLisle that any one on earth,
even an inmate of a harem, could possibly be afraid of her.

She held out both hands impulsively, exclaiming in French: "Oh, are you Ourïeda? But you are
beautiful as a princess in a fairy story. You are worth coming all this long way to see!"

Then the Arab girl's smile changed, and for an instant was radiant, unclouded by any thought
of sadness. She took Sanda's little gloved hands, and, pressing them affectionately, bent forward
to kiss her guest on both cheeks. Her lips were soft and cool as flower petals, though the
day was hot, and the scent of lilies swept over Sanda in a fragrant wave. As she kissed the
stranger, Ourïeda made little birdlike sucking sounds, in the fashion of Arab women when they
would show honour to a favoured friend. First she kissed Sanda's right cheek, the right side
of the body being nobler because the White Angel walks always on the right, jotting down in
his book every good deed done; then she kissed the left cheek, since it is at the left side
of man or woman that the wicked Black Angel stalks, tempting to evil acts, and hastily recording
them before they can be repented.

"Why, you are as young as I am, and white and gold as the little young moon, and very, very
sweet, like honey!" cried the girl, in French as good as Sanda's, though with the throaty,
thrushlike notes that Spaniards and Arabs put into every language. "I am glad, oh, really glad,
that you have come to be with me! Now I see you I know I was foolish to be afraid."

Sanda laughed as they stood holding each other's hands and looking into each other's eyes.
"Afraid of me?" she echoed. "Oh, you couldn't have been afraid of me!"

"But I was," said Ourïeda. "I was afraid until this minute."

"Why?" asked Sanda. "Did you fancy I might be big and old and cross, perhaps with stick-out
teeth and spectacles, like Englishwomen in French caricatures?"

Ourïeda shook her head, still gazing at her guest as if she would read the soul whose experiences
had been so different from her own. "No, I have never seen any French caricatures," she answered.
"I hardly know what they are. And I did not think you would be old, because the Agha, my father,
told me you were but a baby when he first knew your father, the Colonel DeLisle. Still, I did
not understand that you would look as young as I do, or that you would have a face like a white
flower, and eyes with truth shining in them, as our wise women say it shines up like a star
out of darkness from the bottom of a well."

"In my country they say the very same thing about truth and a well," returned Sanda, blushing
faintly under the oddly compelling gaze of the sad young eyes. "But do tell me why you felt
afraid, if you didn't think I should be old and disagreeable?"

Suddenly the other's face changed. A queer look of extraordinary eagerness, almost of slyness,
transformed it, chasing away something of its soft beauty. "Hush!" she said, "we can't talk
of such things now. Some time soon, perhaps! I forgot we were not alone. I must introduce you
to my Aunt Mabrouka, my father's widowed half-sister, who"--and her voice hardened--"is like
a second mother to me."

She stepped back, and an elderly woman, who had stood in the background awaiting her turn (though
far from humbly, to judge by the flashing of her eyes), moved forward to welcome the Roumia--the
foreigner.

Then for the first time Sanda realized that Ourïeda, the soul of the picture, was not the only
human figure in it besides herself. Lella[1] Mabrouka was a personality, too, and if she had
been a woman of some progressive country, marching with the times, most probably she would
have been among the Suffragists. She would have made a handsome man, and indeed looked rather
like a stout, short man of middle age, disguised as an inmate of his own harem. She was dressed
in white, Arab mourning, considered unlucky for women who have not lost some relative by death,
and her square, wrinkled face, the colour of bronze, was dark and harsh in contrast. If she
had not been partly screened by a great flowering pomegranate bush as she sat in her white
dress against the white house wall, Sanda would have seen her on entering the court; but it
was hopeless to try and appease the lady's scarcely stifled vexation with apologies or explanations.
Lella Mabrouka, being of an older generation, had not troubled to learn French, and could understand
only a few words which her naturally quick mind had assorted in hearing the Agha talk with
his daughter. Ourïeda acted as interpreter for the politeness of her aunt and guest, but Sanda
could not help realizing that all was not well between the two. A tall old negress (introduced
by the girl as a beloved nurse), a woman of haggard yet noble face, stood dutifully behind
Lella Mabrouka, but stabbed the broad white back with keen, suspicious glances that softened
into love as her great eyes turned to the "Little Rose."

[Footnote 1: Lella, lady.]

Honey could be no sweeter than the words of welcome translated by Ourïeda, and when Sanda's
answers had been put into Arabic, Lella Mabrouka received them graciously. Soon aunt and niece
and servant were all chattering and smiling, offering coffee and fruit, and assuring the Roumia
that her host was eagerly awaiting permission to meet her. Yet Sanda could not rid herself
of the impression that some hidden drama was being secretly played in this fountain court of
sunshine and flowers.

CHAPTER XIV

TWO ON THE ROOF

"Come up on the roof with me, and I will tell you that thing I have been waiting to tell you,"
said Ourïeda. "Aunt Mabrouka will not follow us there, because she hates going up the narrow
stairs with the high steps. Besides, she will perhaps think I really want to show you the sunset."

Sanda had been in the Agha's house for three days, and always since the first evening a fierce
simoon had been hurling the hot sand against the shut windows like spray from a wild golden
sea. It had not been possible to sit in the fountain court of the harem, the hidden garden
of the women, protected though it was by four high walls. Sanda and Ourïeda had scarcely been
alone together for more than a few minutes at a time, and even if they had been, Ourïeda would
not have spoken. As she said, she had been waiting. Sanda had felt, during the three days,
that she was being watched and studied, not only by Lella Mabrouka, but by the girl. Their
eyes were always on her; and though Sanda DeLisle was very young, and had never tried consciously
to become a student of human character, it seemed to her, in these new and strange conditions
of life which sharpened her powers of discernment, that she could dimly read what the brains
behind the eyes were thinking.

Lella Mabrouka's eyes, though old (as age is counted with Arab women) were beady-bright and
keen as a hawk's, yet she was clever enough to veil thought by wearing the expressionless mask
of an idol in the presence of the girls. Sanda had to pierce that veil; and she felt as if
from behind it a hostile thing peered out, spying for treachery in the new inmate of the house,
hoping rather than fearing to find it, and ready to pounce if a chance came. The stealthy watcher
seemed to be saying, "What are you here for, daughter of Christian dogs? You must have some
scheme in your head to defeat our hopes and wishes; but if you have, I'll find out what it
is, and break it--break you, too, if need be."

No sinister thing looked out from the eyes of Ourïeda, but something infinitely sad and wistful
kept repeating: "Can I trust you? Oh, I think so, I believe so, more and more. But it is so
desperately important to be certain. I must wait a little while yet."

Always, through the countless inquiries of Lella Mabrouka and the girl about France and England
(Ireland meant nothing to them) and Sanda's bringing up, and the life of women in Europe, the
visitor was conscious of the real questions in their souls. But on the third day the feverish
anxiety had burnt itself out behind Ourïeda's topaz-brown eyes. They were eager still, but
clear, and her wistful smile was no longer strained. Whatever the burden was that she hid,
she had decided to beg Sanda's help in carrying or getting rid of it. And instinctively realizing
this, Sanda ceased to feel that the Arab girl was of an entirely different world from hers,
remote as a creature of another planet. The Agha's daughter was transformed in the eyes of
her guest. From a mere picturesque figure in a vivid fairy tale, she became pathetically, poignantly
human. Sanda began to hear the call of another soul yearning to have her soul as its friend,
and all that was warm and impulsive in her responded. A thrill of expectation stirred in her
veins when, on the evening of the third day, after the wind had died a sudden, swift death,
Ourïeda whispered the real reason for going up to the roof.

Sanda had been looking forward to mounting those narrow stairs (with the steep steps which
Lella Mabrouka hated), because Ourïeda had several times spoken of the view far away to the
dunes, and the wonderful colours of sunrise and sunset, when the sky flowered like a hanging
garden. Perhaps the Arab girl had been cleverly "working up" to this moment, so that the suggestion,
made instantly after the death of the simoon, might seem natural to her aunt. In any case it
was as Ourïeda had hoped. Lella Mabrouka did not follow the girls.

When they came out on the flat white expanse of roof, Sanda gave a cry of surprised admiration.
She had known it would be beautiful up there, to see so far over the desert, but the real picture
was more wonderful than her imagination could have painted. The sun had just dropped behind
the waving line of dunes and dragged the fierce wind with him like a tiger in leash. All the
world was magically still after the constant purring and roaring of the new-conquered beast.
The voice of the Muezzin chanting the sunset call to prayer--the prayer of Moghreb--seemed
only to emphasize the vast silence. Up from the shimmering gold of the western sky, behind
the gold of the dunes, slowly moved along separate spears of flame-bright rose, like the fingers
of a gigantic Hand of Fatma spread across the sapphire heaven to bless her father's people.
From this flaming sign in the west poured a pink radiance as of falling rubies. The wonderful
light rained over the marble whiteness of the distant mosque--the great mosque of Djazerta--and
fired the whole mass of the piled oasis-town behind its dark line of palms. The light showered
roses over the girls' heads and dresses, stained the snow of the roof, with its low, bubbling
domes, and streaming eastward turned flat plain and far billowing dune into a sea of flame.

Sanda's spirit worshipped the incredible beauty of the scene, and then flew northward to the
two men whom she loved. She thought of her father, and wondered where Richard Stanton was at
that moment. Then Max Doran's face came between her and the man she had named "Sir Knight."
She remembered her dream of herself and Max in the desert, and was vexed because she had not
dreamed the same dream about Stanton instead.

"How wonderful it is here!" she half whispered, and Ourïeda answered impatiently:

"Yes, it is wonderful; but don't let us talk of it, or even think of it any more, because I
have so much to say to you, and Aunt Mabrouka will send to call us if my father comes. Besides,
we can see this on any night when the wind does not blow."

She had in her hand a large silk handkerchief tied in the form of a bag; and sitting down on
the low, queerly battlemented wall which protected the flat roof, she untied and opened the
bundle on her lap. It was full of yellow grain, and she gave Sanda a handful. "That's for the
doves," she said. "They will know somehow that we are here, and presently they will come. If
Aunt Mabrouka sends her own woman, Taous, up to listen and spy on us she will find us feeding
the doves."

"But why should Lella Mabrouka do such a thing?" Sanda ventured to ask, taking the grain, and
seating herself beside Ourïeda.

"You will understand that, and a great many other things, when I have told you what I am going
to tell," answered the "Little Rose." "From books my father has let me read, and from things
you have said, I have seen that Roumia girls are not like us, even in their thoughts. Perhaps
you are thinking now that I am very sly; and so I am, but not because I love slyness. It is
only because I have to be subtle in self-defence against those who are older and wiser than
I am. Everything in our lives makes us women stealthy as cats. It is not our fault. At least,
it is not mine. Some women--some girls--may enjoy the excitement, but not I. Perhaps I am different
from others, because I have the blood of Europe in my veins. My father's mother was Sicilian.
My own mother was Spanish. And he, my father, is an enlightened man, with broader views and
more knowledge of the world than most Caids of the south. They all pride themselves on knowing
a little French in these days, he tells me, and some have even made visits to Paris once in
their lives. But you know already what he is."

"Yes, he is a magnificent man," Sanda agreed, "even greater than I expected from what my father
said of him."

She had met the Agha only once, for a ceremonious half-hour on the evening of her arrival at
his house, when he had begged permission as of a visiting princess to see and welcome her;
yet this punctiliousness was not neglect, but Arab courtesy; and Ben Râana had talked to her
of the world in general and Paris in particular, in French, which, though somewhat stilted
and guttural, was curiously Parisian in wording and expression. He was one of the handsomest
men she had ever seen, scarcely darker in colour than many Frenchmen of the Midi, and marvellously
dignified, with his long black beard, his great, sad eyes whose overhanging line of brow almost
met above the eagle nose, and the magnificent gray, silver embroidered burnous worn in the
guest's honour. He had appeared to Sanda years younger than the widowed Mabrouka; and though
she was a dark, withered likeness of him, it was not surprising to learn that Lella Mabrouka
was only a half-sister of the Agha, born of an Arab mother.

"You know he has had but one wife, my own mother," Ourïeda said proudly. "That is considered
almost a sin in our religion, yet he could never bring himself to look with love on any woman,
after her, nor to give her a rival, even for the sake of having a son. I adore him for that--how
could I help it, since he says I am her image?--and for letting me learn things Arab girls
of the south are seldom taught, in order that I may have something of her cleverness that held
his love, as her beauty won it. Yet, if he had married a second wife when my mother died, and
she had given him a son, my life would be happier now."

"How can that be?" asked Sanda. "I couldn't love my father in the way I do if he had put somebody
else in my mother's place, and spoiled all the beautiful romance."

"My father's romance with my mother was like a strange poem, for she was the daughter of Catholic
Spanish people, who had an orange plantation near Blida, and wished her to enter a convent.
But my father rode by with some French officers and saw her on her way to church. That one
look decided their whole lives. Yes, it would have been a pity to spoil their romance; yet,
keeping its poetry is spoiling mine."

"You mean your Aunt Mabrouka. But a stepmother might be worse."

"No, it isn't only Aunt Mabrouka I am thinking of. It is her son, who is my father's heir because
he has no son of his own. My father is very enlightened in many ways, but in others he is as
narrow and hard as the rest of our people, who hold to their old customs more firmly than they
hold to life. My father intends me for the wife of Si Tahar, who met and brought you to our house."

Sanda could not keep back a little gasp of dismay. "Oh, no! it's not possible!" she cried.
"You're so beautiful, and so fair. He's so--so----"

"Hideous. Don't be afraid to say the word to me. I love you for it. But because Tahar's not
deformed from birth, and the strength and beauty of the line isn't threatened, his looks make
no difference to my father. To him it seems far more important that I should be the wife of
the heir, so that money and land need not be divided after his death, than that I should love
my husband before my marriage. You see, that can hardly ever happen to a girl of our race and
religion. If Tahar were not my cousin I should never even have seen him, nor he me. And if
I had not seen him, it would perhaps be a little better, for there would be the excitement
and mystery of the unknown. We are brought up to expect that; and if already I hadn't learned
to dislike Tahar for his own sake and his mother's, I should be no worse off than other girls--except
for one thing: the great thing of my life."

Her voice fell lower than before, and her companion on the wall had to bend close to catch
the whisper. "What is that thing?" Sanda dropped the words into a frightened pause, while Ourïeda's
glance went quickly to the well of the staircase.

"It is what I came here to tell you about," the Arab girl answered. "I forced myself to wait,
but now I am sure of you as if you were my own sister. We are going to open our hearts to each
other. Do you know what it is to have a man in your life--a man who is not father or brother,
and yet is of great importance to you; so great that you think of him by day and dream of him
by night?"

"Yes, there are two such men in my life," Sanda replied; and was surprised at herself that
she should have said two. More truly there was only one man, not counting her father, who had
a place in her thoughts.

"Two men!" Ourïeda echoed, looking shocked. "But how can there be two?"

Sanda felt herself blushing and ashamed before the woman of another race. She tried to explain,
though it was difficult, because she had given the answer without stopping to think: indeed,
it had almost spoken itself. "I fancy I said that because you asked me about dreams," she apologized.
"The man who has been my hero all my life--and always will be, I suppose, though he doesn't
care for me and thinks of me as a child--I can't dream of, for some strange reason. He's seldom
out of my thoughts by day for very long, I believe; but the other--I hardly know why I mentioned
him!--is only a friend, and quite a new friend. He's nothing to me at all, really, though I'm
interested in him because of the strange way we met and were thrown together. But the odd thing
is, I dream of him--often."

"The women of my people say it is the man you dream of who has touched your soul," Ourïeda
said thoughtfully.

"That's a very poetical idea, but I'm sure it isn't true!" Sanda exclaimed. "Now tell me about
yourself, because if Lella Mabrouka should send----"

"Yes, I am, oh, so anxious to tell you! But what you said about the man of your thoughts and
the man of your dreams was very queer, and made me forget for an instant. I am glad you love
some one, for that will help you to understand me, and by and by you will tell me more. Already
I can see that you must be almost as unhappy as I am, because you say the one you care for
doesn't care for you. That must be terrible, but you are free, and perhaps some day you can
make him care. As for me, if I am not saved soon, I shall be married to Tahar and lost forever."

"But surely your father, who loves you so dearly, won't actually force you to marry against
your will?"

"He will expect me to obey, and I shall have to obey or--kill myself. Rather that, only--oh,
Sanda, I am a coward! At the last minute my courage might fail. The one thing my father would
promise was that I should be left as I am till my seventeenth birthday. That very day is fixed
for the beginning of the marriage feast. We shall have a whole week of rejoicing. Think of
the horror of it for me! I had a year of hope when he made the promise. Now I have less than
six months. And in all that time nothing has happened."

Sanda saw by the girl's look and guessed by the quiver of her voice that she was not speaking
vaguely. There was something in particular which she had been praying for, counting upon from
day to day. And that thing had not happened.

CHAPTER XV

THE SECRET LINK

The Hand of Fatma was gone from the sky. Ruby had turned to amethyst, amethyst to the gray-blue
of star sapphire, and the red fire of the dunes had burned out to an ashen pallor. The change
had come suddenly while the girls talked; and when Sanda realized it, she shivered a little,
with a touch of superstition she had learned from her two Irish aunts. All this cold whiteness
after the jewelled blaze of colour was like the death of youth and hope. She pushed the thought
away hastily, telling herself it had come only because Ourïeda had threatened to put an end
to her own life rather than marry Tahar; yet it would not go far away. Like a vaguely visible,
ghostly shape it seemed to stand behind the Arab girl as she talked on, telling the story of
her childhood and a love that had grown with her growth.

There was another cousin, it appeared, the son of her mother's sister. He was all Spanish.
There was not a drop of Arab blood in his veins, unless it came through Saracen ancestors in
the days when Moorish kings reigned over Andalusia.

"You know, now you've been with us even these few days," Ourïeda said, "that the harem of an
Arab Caïd isn't a nest of wives, as people in Europe who have never seen one suppose! My father
has laughed when he told me Christians believed that. Now, Aunt Mabrouka and I and our servants
are the only women in my father's harem; but when I was a little girl, before my mother died--I
can just remember her--besides my mother herself there was her sister, whose Spanish husband
had been drowned at sea. An Arab man thinks it a disgrace if any women related even distantly
to him or his wife are thrown on the world to make their own living. It could never happen
with an Arab woman if she were respectable. And even though my mother's sister was Spanish
and a Christian, my father offered her and her boy a home. Already his own sister, Aunt Mabrouka,
had come to stay with us, and had brought her son Tahar. Neither of the boys lived in the harem
of course, for they were old enough to be in the men's part of the house, and have men for
their servants; but they came every day to see their mothers. Even then, though I was a tiny
child, I hated Tahar--and loved Manöel Valdez. Tahar had had smallpox, and looked just as he
looks now, only worse, because he has a bad chin that his beard hides; and Manöel was handsome.
Oh, you can't imagine how handsome Manöel was! He was like the ideal all girls, even Arab girls,
must dream of, I think. I can see him now--as plainly as I see you in this sad, pale light
that comes up from the desert at night."

"Is it long since you parted?" Sanda asked quickly, to put away that persistent thought of trouble.

"We parted more than once, because when our two mothers died, one after another, of the same
sickness--typhoid fever--Manöel was sent away to school. He's nine years older than I am--twenty-five
now; a little more than three years younger than Tahar. My father sent him to the university
in Algiers, because, you see, he was Christian--or, rather, he was nothing at all then; he
had not settled to any belief. Tahar was like Aunt Mabrouka, very religious, and did not care
much to study, except the Koran and a little French. He went once to Paris, but he didn't stay
long. He said he was homesick. Oh, he is clever in his way! He has known how to make himself
necessary to my father."

"And Manöel Valdez?" asked Sanda.

"My father loved him when he was a boy, because he was of the same blood as my mother. Although
Aunt Mabrouka was jealous even then--for she ruled in the house after my mother's death--she
couldn't prejudice my father's mind against Manöel, hard as she tried. Manöel was free to come
here when he liked, for his holidays, or to the douar if we were there; and he loved life under
the great tent. He had a wonderful voice, and he could sing our Arab songs as no one else ever
could. Father wished him to be a lawyer, and gave money for his education, because we Arabs
often need lawyers who understand us. But Manöel cared more for music than anything else--except
for me. When I was eight and he was seventeen I told him I meant to marry him when I grew up,
and he said he would wait for me. I suppose he was only joking then; but the thought of him
and the love of him in my heart made me begin to grow into a woman sooner than if I had had
only the thoughts of a child. It was like the sun opening a flower bud. When he was away I
felt hardly alive. When he came back from Spain to our house or to our tent in the douar I
lived--lived every minute! It was three years ago, when I was thirteen, that he began to love
me as a woman. I shall never forget the day he told me! I was not hadjaba yet. Do you know
what that means? I was considered to be a child still, and I could go out with my aunt to the
baths, or with one of our servants, unveiled. I was not shut up in the house as I am now. But
in my heart I was a woman, because of Manöel. And when he came home after nearly a year in
Seville and other parts of Spain he felt and saw the difference in me. We were in the douar,
and life was free and beautiful. For three months Manöel and I kept our secret. He said he
would do anything to have me for his wife. He would even become Mohammedan, since religion
meant little to him, and love everything. He had no money of his own, but he had been told
that he could make a fortune with his voice, singing in opera, and he had been taking lessons
without telling my father. A Frenchman--is "impresario" the right word?--was having his voice
trained, and by and by Manöel would pay him back out of his earnings. We used to call ourselves
"engaged," as girls and men in Europe are engaged to each other in secret. But one day, soon
after my thirteenth birthday, Aunt Mabrouka, who must have begun to suspect and spy on us,
overheard us talking. She told my father. At first he wouldn't believe her, but he surprised
me into confessing. I should never have been so stupid, only, from what he said, I thought
he already knew everything. After all, it was so little! Just words of love, and some dear
kisses! He suspected there was more; and if I hadn't made him understand, he might have killed
Manöel, and me, too. But even as it was, my father and Aunt Mabrouka hurried me from the douar
in the night, before Manöel knew that anything had happened. I was brought here; and never
since have I been outside this garden without a veil. It was months before I went out at all.
And Manöel was sent away, cursed by my father for ingratitude and treachery, warned never to
come again near Djazerta or the douar as long as he lived, unless he wished for my death as
well as his."

"Have you never seen him since?" Sanda asked, her heart beating fast with the rush of the story
as Ourïeda had told it.

"Yes, he has seen me, and I have seen him. But we have not spoken, except in letters. For a
whole year I heard nothing. Yet I never lost faith. I seemed to feel Manöel thinking of me,
calling me, far away across the desert. I knew that we should meet in life or death. At last,
one Friday two years ago--Friday, you know, is the women's day for visiting the graves of loved
ones--I saw Manöel. He was dressed like a beggar. His face was stained dark brown, and nearly
hidden by the hood of a ragged burnous. But I recognized the eyes. They looked into mine. I
realized that he must have been waiting for me to pass with Aunt Mabrouka. He knew of course
that whenever possible we went on Friday to the cemetery. I almost fainted with joy; but Allah
gave me presence of mind, and strength to hide my feelings. You have noticed how sharp Aunt
Mabrouka is. It's the great ambition of her life to see the daughter of the Agha married to
her son. Never for one moment has she trusted me since she spied out the truth about Manöel.
That Friday, though, I thwarted her. Oh, it was good to know that Manöel was near! I hardly
dared to hope for more than just seeing him; but he remembered that my old nurse had a grandson
in my father's goum, a fine rider, who first taught him--Manöel--to sit on a horse. Through
my nurse and Ali ben Sliman I got letters from Manöel. He told me he had begun to sing in opera,
and that if I would wait for him two--or at most three--years, he would have enough money saved
to give me a life in Europe worthy of a prince's daughter, such as I am. He would organize
some plan to steal me from home, if there were no chance of winning my father's consent, and
he was sure it could be done with great bribes for many people, and relays of Maharis and horses
to get us through the dune-country. I sent word that I would wait for him three years, all
the years of my life! But that was before I knew my father meant me to marry Tahar.

"Not long after Manöel came to stay in Djazerta, disguised as a wandering beggar of Touggourt,
my father told me what was in his mind. I feel sure Aunt Mabrouka suspected from my happier
looks that I was hearing from Manöel, for she persuaded my father that I was ill. She shut
me up and gave me medicine; and I was so afraid Manöel might be discovered and murdered, that
I sent him word to go away at once, not even to write me again. He obeyed for my sake, not
knowing what might happen to me if he refused, but by word of mouth came the message that he
would always be working for our happiness. Well I guessed what he meant! Yet when my father
told me about Tahar, all my faith in Manöel could not keep me brave. My father is splendid,
but he will stop at nothing with those who go against him. At first he said I must be married
when I was sixteen, but I reminded him that seventeen was my mother's age when he took her;
and I begged him, "for luck," to let me wait. I dared not warn Manöel, lest they should have
laid a trap, expecting me to write him about my marriage. I waited for months, and then it
was too late, for Ali ben Sliman was away. I dared trust no one else; and so it is not yet
a year ago that I sent a letter to an old address Manöel had left with Ali. I told him all
that had happened, and I said, if I were to be saved it must be before my seventeenth birthday,
the end of September. After that I should be dead--or else Tahar's wife. Since then, not hearing,
I have sent two more letters to the same address, for I have no other. But no answer has come.
Now Ali has died of fever, and I can never write to Manöel again unless--unless----"

"Unless what?" breathed Sanda.

"Unless you can manage to help me. Would you, if you could?"

"Yes," answered the other girl, without hesitating. "I'm a guest in the Agha's house, and I've
eaten his salt, so it's hateful to work against him. But, some day, surely he'll be thankful
to a friend who saves you from Si Tahar. I'll do anything I can. Yet I'm only a girl like yourself.
What is there I can do? Have you thought?"

"If I have thought!" echoed Ourïeda. "I have thought of nothing else, for weeks and weeks,
long before you came. I begged my father to find me a companion of my own age, not an Arab
girl, but a European, to teach me things and make me clever like my mother. He believed I was
pining with ennui; and because he had put real happiness out of my life, he was willing to
console me as well as he could in some easy way. In spite of Aunt Mabrouka, who may have guessed
what was in my mind, he trusts you completely, because you are your father's daughter."

"Ah, that's the dreadful part! To betray such a trust!" exclaimed Sanda.

"But after all, I am going to ask so little of you, not a hard thing at all," Ourïeda pleaded,
frightened at the effect of her own words. "It is a thing only a trusted guest, a woman of
the Roumia, could possibly do, yet it's very simple. And when the time comes to do it, you
need only shut your eyes."

"Tell me what you mean," said Sanda anxiously.

"Every letter you write--not to your father, because he might ask questions, but to a friend--leave
the envelope open, and turn your back, or go out of the room. Then don't look into the letter
again, or notice if it seems thicker than before, but fasten it up tightly and seal the envelope
with wax. Will you do that?"

"Yes," said Sanda, rather miserably. "To save you I will do that."

"You have friends in France who would post a letter if they found it enclosed in one of yours,
without explanations?"

"I have friends who would do that, perhaps, but to make it more sure I will explain. It would
not save my conscience to let you slip a letter into an open envelope, and pretend to myself
that I knew nothing about it; because I would know, and I think I'd almost rather be hypocritical
with other people than with myself."

"I told you," exclaimed Ourïeda, "that Roumia girls were different from us even in their secret
thoughts! But you will love me, won't you, although you think I am stealthy and sly? I need
your love and help!"

"I love you, or I shouldn't have promised what I have just promised now," Sanda assured her.

"But if there were still more--something harder and more dangerous--would you love me enough
to do that thing too?"

"Do you mean something in particular that you have in your mind, or----"

"Yes, oh, yes! I mean something in particular."

"Will you tell me what it is?"

"I am half afraid."

"Don't be afraid. Tell me!"

"Hush!" whispered Ourïeda. "Don't you hear some one on the stairs--coming up softly? I must
tell you another time. Laugh! Laugh out aloud! Call to the doves!"

The two girls began to chatter together like children. And their young voices tinkling out
in laughter sounded pitifully small in the immensity of the night-bleached desert.

       *       *       *       *       *

Far away in the north where colonist farmers had long ago conquered the desert there was music
that evening at Sidi-bel-Abbés, headquarters of the Foreign Legion. The soul of the Legion
was speaking in its tragic-sweet voice, and the Place Carnot was full of soldiers sauntering
singly or in pairs, mostly silent, as if to hear their own heart-secrets cried aloud by telltale
'cellos and flutes and violins.

The townsfolk were there, too; and when the band played some selection especially to their
liking they buzzed approval. It was only the Legionnaires who talked little, and in tones almost
humbly suppressed. Once, years ago, they had violently asserted their right to promenade the
Place Carnot, and enjoy the music of their own famous band, when local authority would insolently
have banished them; but now the boon was won, they were subdued in manner, as if they had never
smashed chairs and wrecked bandstand in fierce protest against bourgeois tyranny. Immaculate
in every detail of their uniform as though each man had his own servant, these soldiers who
spent half their so-called leisure in scrubbing clothes, polishing steel and brass, and varnishing
leather, had nevertheless a piteously dejected bearing whenever they passed pretty, well-dressed
young women. They knew that, whatever they might once have been, as Foreign Legion men on pay
of five centimes a day they were in the eyes of Bel-Abbés girls hopeless ineligibles, poverty-stricken
social outcasts, the black sheep of the world. It was to vie with each other and to make the
Legion far outshine Chasseurs and Spahis that they sacrificed two thirds of their spare time
in the cause of smartness, not because even the handsomest and youngest cherished any hope
of catching a woman's approving eye.

Just at the moment, however, there was an exception to the depressing rule. The prettiest girls,
French, Spanish, and Algerian-born, all condescended to glance at the bleu who had "knocked
out" the former champion of the Legion, and, taking his place in the match with the Marseillais,
had kept the championship for the First Regiment Etrangére. Since the day more than a week
ago when the barrack-yard of the Legion had been the scene of the great fight--officers looking
on in the front ranks of the invited crowd, and soldiers hanging out of dormitory windows--every
one in Sidi-bel-Abbés had learned to know the hero by sight; and a blackened eye, a bruised
cheek-bone, and a swelled lip (the unbecoming badges of his triumph) made recognition easy.
But the Legion was proud of St. George. Not a man, least of all Four Eyes, grudged him his
success, such "luck" as had never fallen to any mere recruit within the memory of the oldest
Legionnaires, unless in the battlefield, where all are equal.

Max realized fully what this "luck" had done for him, and was aware that eyes turned his way;
but, far from being proud, he was half-ashamed of his conspicuousness, fearing that Colonel
DeLisle might disapprove. Also, he knew that the small, brief blaze of his notoriety would
die out like the flame of a candle. A week or two more and the "little tin god" would go down
off his wheels. If he meant to be somebody in the Legion he would have to work as he had never
worked in all his life.

With him in the Place Carnot was the Spaniard who had begged for his civilian clothes. They
were in the same company and of the same age. From the first glance (given and taken when one
man was a recruit and the other did not yet dream of becoming one) something had drawn the
two together. Then had come the incident of the clothing; and Max had felt himself an unwilling
partner in the other's secret. Later, without exchanging confidences (since "ask no questions,
I'll tell you no lies," is a good general rule in the Legion), they drifted into a tacit kind
of comradeship, Max admiring the Spaniard, the Spaniard trusting Max.

To-night they walked together in silence, or speaking seldom, like the other Legionnaires,
and listening to the music. Suddenly the Spaniard stopped, muttering some word under his breath,
and Max saw through the dusk that the olive face had gone ashy pale. "What's the matter, Garcia?
Are you ill?" he asked.

The other did not answer. He stood stock still, staring almost stupidly straight before him.

Max linked an arm in his. "What's wrong? Garcia! What's wrong with you?" he repeated.

The Spaniard started. "I beg your pardon," he stammered, dazed. "I didn't realize you were--speaking--to
me."

Instantly Max guessed that "Juan Garcia," the name appearing with the "numero matricule" over
the bed of le bleu, was as new as his place in the Legion, and as fictitious as the alleged
profession of garcon d'hôtel which accounted cleverly for the recruit's stained evening clothes.

"I only asked you what was wrong, what made you stop so suddenly?" Max explained.

"It was that thing the band is playing now," said the Spaniard. "Strange they should have it
here already! It is out of the new African opera by Saltenet, "La Naïlia," produced for the
first time ten days ago--a trial performance at Marseilles, and on now at the Opera Comique
in Paris. Good heavens! Another world, and yet these extraordinary men are playing that song
here already--my song!"

"Your song?" involuntarily Max echoed the words.

"My song. If a certain letter hadn't come to me on the night of the last rehearsal but one,
and if we hadn't been in Marseilles, rehearsing, I shouldn't be here to-night. I should be
in Paris, perhaps coming on to the stage at this moment, where I suppose my understudy is grimacing
like the conceited monkey he is."

"By jove!" was all that Max could find to say. But he put several emotions into the two words:
astonishment, warm sympathy, and some sort of friendly understanding.

"You wonder why I tell you this?" Garcia challenged him.

Max answered quietly: "No, I don't wonder. Perhaps you feel it does you good to speak. It's
strange music!--stirs one up, somehow--makes one think of things. And I suppose you trust me?
You can. But don't go any farther unless you're sure you want to."

"I do want to!" burst out the Spaniard. "I've wanted to from the first--since you helped me
about the clothes. Only you're a reserved fellow yourself. I didn't care to have you think
me a gusher. You guessed why I begged for the clothes?"

"I didn't let myself dwell on it too much."

"You must have guessed. Of course I mean to desert the first chance I get."

"It's a beastly risk. Did you see that awful photograph the colonel told the non-coms to pass
around for us to look at, as a warning against desertion?"

"The poor wretch they found in the desert, across the Moroccan border, the man who ran away
from Bel Abbés before we came? Yes, I saw the picture. Ghastly! And to think it's the women
who mutilate men like that! But I shan't try to escape by way of Morocco. The danger I'll run
is only from being caught and sent to the penal battalion--the awful 'Batt d'Aff.' It's a bad
enough danger, for I might as well be dead as in prison--better, for I'd be out of misery.
But I must run the risk. I enlisted in the Legion for its protection in getting to Africa,
because I was in danger of arrest. And you know the Legion, once it's got a man, won't give
him up to the police unless he's a murderer. I'm not that, though I came near it. Even while
I signed for five years' service, I knew I should have to desert the minute I could hope to
get away. I shall wait now till the big march begins, and get as far south as the rest of you
go, in my direction--the direction I want. Then I shall cut away."

"God help you!" said Max.

"Maybe He will, though I'm a man of no religion. Is love the next best thing? Everything I've
done so far, and what I have to do, is for love. Does that make you think me a fool?"

"No."

"I have to save a girl from being given to a man who isn't fit to kiss her little embroidered
shoes--bless them! To save her from him--or from suicide. The letter told me she would rather
die than marry him. That's why I'm not in Paris to-night. There'd been other letters before;
she said in the one which reached me at the theatre--reached me in the midst of rehearsal--thank
God--if there is a God--I still have till the end of September. The crisis won't come till
then, on her seventeenth birthday. But what is five months and a half to a man handicapped
as I am? Caught in a trap, and with hardly any money, just when I had a fortune almost in my
grasp!"

"I can lend you a little," said Max. "I've a few hundred dollars left." He laughed. "It seems
a lot here! These poor chaps look on me as a millionaire, a sort of prince, because I've got
something behind the daily five centimes--some dollars to buy decent tobacco for my friends
and myself, and pay fellows to do my washing and so on--fellows wild with joy to do it! Jove!
It makes me feel a brute to think what a few sous mean to them, gentlemen, some of 'em, who've
lived a more luxurious life than I have--and----"

"Maybe that's why they're here: because they lived too luxuriously--on other people's money.
Tell me, St. George, did you ever hear the name of Manöel Valdez?"

Max thought for an instant. "Valdez? Let me see ... how ... I know, a singer! He sang last
winter in New York, in something or other, a small part, and I wasn't there, but I saw great
notices. I remember now. Why, you're----"

"Yes. You're right. Don't be afraid to speak. I asked for it."

"Then you are----"

"Manöel Valdez. Saltenet, the man who wrote 'La Naïlia,' wrote the man's part for me, because
he thought I could sing it, and because I understand Arab music as maybe no other European
does. I was brought up in the desert. The girl I love is a daughter of the desert. God! How
that music they're playing makes me hear her call me, far away from behind her ocean of dunes!
There's a secret link binding our souls together. Nothing can keep them apart. Saltenet was
my benefactor. He has done everything for me. He would have made my fortune--after I'd made
his; but that's human nature! And twelve nights ago I nearly killed him because he wouldn't
let me go when that girl called--my desert princess! He vowed he'd have me arrested--anything
to stop me. And he tried to hold me by force. I knocked him down in his own private room at
the theatre where we were rehearsing, and then I had to make sure he wasn't dead, for his blood
was on my hands, my sleeves, my shirt front. It was only concussion of the brain, but I hoped
it would keep him still, until I'd got well away. That afternoon an officer I knew had happened
to mention before me that a lot of men were being shipped off to Oran for the Foreign Legion.
I remembered. It was as if some voice reminded me. Africa was my goal, but I'd next to no money.
I thought, why shouldn't France pay? Well, here I am! Now you know why I must desert. Wouldn't
you do the same in my place? Have you got it in you, I wonder, to sacrifice everything in life
for a woman?"

Max thought for a moment before risking a reply. Then he answered slowly: "I--almost believe
I have. But who knows?"

"Some day you will know," said Manöel Valdez, looking away toward the desert.

CHAPTER XVI

THE BEETLE

When Max had served four months in the Foreign Legion he felt older by four years. He looked
older, too. There were faintly sketched lines round his mouth and eyes, and that indefinable
expression which lies deep down in eyes which have seen life and death at grip: a Legion look.

In some ways he had been a boy when he took his sudden resolve in the Salle d'Honneur to prove
what the Legion could do for a nature he himself doubted. Now he was no longer a boy. He realized
that, though he had never found time to study the success of his experiment, and had no idea
that it was being studied day after day by his colonel. Had he guessed, some dark hours might
have been brightened by gleams of hope, for in spite of his luck in the Legion there were times
when Max felt himself abandoned, a creature of as small consequence to any heart on earth as
a half-drowned fly. A more conceited man would have been happier, but Max had not joined the
Legion with the object of finding happiness, and one who was watching believed that it would
be good for him to wait.

Max and Manöel Valdez (alias Garcia) had looked forward to the great march, already vaguely
talked of when they joined. But it had not been a march for marching's sake: its real purpose
was more grave. A band of Arab thieves and murderers on the border of the M'zab country had
to be caught and punished. No recruits were taken: disappointment for Max and despair for Valdez.
He had hoped everything from that chance, and, in his rage at losing it, made a dash for liberty
from Sidi-bel-Abbés. He got no farther than the outskirts, the forbidden Village Négre, where
he risked a night visit in search of the man bribed to hide a certain precious bundle. Fortunately
he was arrested before securing it, for had he been trapped with civilian clothes not even
his marvellous voice (the talk of the garrison since it had been heard in the soldier's theatre)
could have saved him from the fate of caught deserters: the penal battalion for months, if
not a year; death, perhaps, from fever or hardship. As it was, he escaped with the penalty
for a night visit to the Arab quarter: eight days cellule. But the clothes were safe. He would
try again. Nothing on earth, he said, should keep him from trying again; because he might as
well be a "Zephir" in the dreaded "Batt d'Aff," if he could not answer the cry for help he
seemed always to hear from across the desert.

Since his first failure and imprisonment nearly four months had passed, and he had tried again
and failed in the same way. The second time his sentence was twice as long; but before it was
over the medecin major sent him into hospital. He came out emaciated, sullen, dangerous, caring
for nothing, not even to sing. Max yearned over him, but could do nothing except say, "It isn't
too late yet. Maybe, if we brace up, we'll be taken on the big march that they talk of for
the first of September. Even then there'll be time."

He said "we," because it was more comforting to Valdez that their names should be bracketed
together as friends; but as Legionnaires they were already far apart. Max had never been censured,
had never seen the inside of the prison building (that low-roofed, sinister building that runs
along the walls of the barrack-yard). He was in the school of corporals. Soon he would wear
on his blue sleeve the coveted red woollen stripe. Garcia, on the contrary, was constantly
falling into trouble. He had even drunk too much, once or twice, in the hope of drowning trouble,
as Legionnaires do. The September march to the south was ostensibly for road-laying; but there
was again a rumour of other important work to be done. The great secret society of the Senussi
threatened trouble through a new leader who had arisen, a young man of the far south called
the "Deliverer." And when there was prospect of fighting in the desert or elsewhere for the
Legion, recruits--even those who had served for six months--were seldom taken if a long list
of black marks stood against their names. Max feared that there was little hope for Valdez,
though he meant to do what he could to help. And he found it strange that he, a born soldier
as he knew himself to be, should think of tacitly aiding another to desert, no matter on what
pretext. At home in the same position it could not have been so; but in the Foreign Legion
recruits talked freely, even before old Legionnaires to whom the Legion was mother and father
and country. There was no fear of betrayal. The whole point of view seemed different. If a
man felt that he had borne all he could, and was desperate enough to risk death by starvation
or worse, why let him go with his comrades' blessing--and his blood on his own head! If he
had money he might get through. If not, he was lost; but that, too, was his own business.

March was bitterly cold in wind-swept Sidi-bel-Abbés. April was mild; May warm; June hot; July
and August a furnace, but Legionnaires drank no less of the heavy, red Algerian wine than before
the summer heat engulfed them. Max had heard men say jokingly or solemnly of each other, "He
has the cafard." Vaguely he knew that cafard was French for beetle, or cockroach; that soldiers
who habitually mixed absinthe and other strong drinks with their cheap but beloved litre were
often affected with a strange madness which betrayed itself in weird ways, and that this special
madness was familiarly named le cafard. When the hot wave arrived he saw for himself what the
terrible insect could do in a man's brain.

In the canteen it was bad enough on pay nights--so called "the Legion's holidays"--but there
reigned Madame la Cantiniere, young, good looking, a respected queen, who would go on march
with the Legion in her cart, and who must at all times to a certain extent be obeyed. But in
dim side-streets of the town, far from the lights of the smart, out-of-doors cafés, were casse
croutes kept by Spaniards who cared nothing for the fate of Legionnaires when they had spent
their last sou. The cafard grew and prospered there. He tickled men's gray matter and kneaded
it in his microscopic claws. There his victims fought each other, for no reason which they
could explain afterward, or mutilated themselves, tearing off an ear, or tattooing a face with
some design to rival Four Eyes; or they sold parts of their uniforms to buy a little more drink,
or tried to blow out their brains, or the brains of some one else. Afterward, if they survived,
they went to prison; but if it could be proved that they were indeed suffering from cafard,
they got off with light sentences.

Officers of the Legion old enough to have won a few medals seemed to respect the cafard and
make allowances for his deadly work. If the men did not survive, they--what was left of them--went
to the cemetery to rest under small black crosses marked with name and number, their only mourners
the great cypresses which sighed with every breath of wind from the mountains.

One August night of blazing heat and moonlight Max could not sleep. There had been a scene
in the dormitory which had got every man out of bed, but an hour after the tired soldiers were
dead to the world again--all save Max, who felt as if a white fire like the moonlight was raging
in his brain.

He lay still, as though he were gagged and bound, lest a sigh, or a rustle in turning over--as
he longed to turn--might waken a neighbour. The hours set apart for the Legion's repose were
sacred, so profoundly sacred that any man who made the least noise at night or during the afternoon
siesta was given good cause to regret his awkwardness. The most inveterate snorers were cured,
or half killed; and to-night, in this great room with its double row of beds, the trained silence
of the sleepers seemed unnatural, almost terrible, especially after the horror that had broken
it. Max had never before felt the oppression of this deathlike stillness. Usually he slept
as the rest slept; but now, weary as he was, he resigned himself to lie staring through the
slow hours, till the orderly's call, "Au jus!" should rouse the men to swallow their coffee
before reveille.

The dormitory, white with moonlight streaming through curtainless open windows, seemed to Max
like a mausoleum. He could see the still, flat forms, uncovered and prone on their narrow beds,
like carven figures of soldiers on tombs. He alone was alive among a company of statues. The
men could not be human to sleep so soon and so soundly after the thing that had happened!

In his hot brain the scene repeated itself constantly in bright, moving pictures. He had been
rather miserable before going to bed, and had longed for forgetfulness. Sleep had brought its
balm, but suddenly he had started awake to see a man bending over him, a dark shape with lifted
arms that fumbled along the shelf above the bed. On that shelf was the famous paquetage of
the Legionnaire; all his belongings, underclothes, and uniforms, built into the wonderful,
artistic structure which Four Eyes had shown his pet how to make. A thief was searching among
the neat layers of the paquetage for money: every one knew that St. George had money, for he
was continually lending or giving it away. This one meant to save him the trouble by taking
it. Max felt suddenly sick. He had thought all his comrades true to him. It was a blow to find
that some one wished to steal the little he had left, though he had grudged no gift.

Just as Max waked the thief satisfied himself that the well-known wallet was not hidden in
the paquetage, and stooped lower to peer at the sleeper's face before feeling under the pillow.
His eyes and Max's wide-open eyes met. In a flash Max recognized the man. He was of another
company, and had risked much to steal into the dormitory of the Tenth. The fellow must be desperate!
A wave of mingled pity and loathing rushed over Max. Fearing consequences for the wretch, should
any one wake, he would mercifully have motioned him off in silence; but the warning gesture
was misunderstood. The thief started back, expecting a blow, stumbled against the nearest bed,
roused Four Eyes, and in a second the whole room was in an uproar.

The full moon lit the intruder's face as if with a white ray from a police lantern. Pelle and
a dozen others recognized the man from the Eleventh, who could have but one midnight errand
in the sleeping-room of the Tenth: the errand of a thief. Like wolves they leaped on him, snapping
and growling, swearing the strange oaths of the Legion. Bayonets flashed in the moonlight;
blood spouted red, for a soldier of the Legion may "decorate" himself with a comrade's belt,
or bit of equipment, if another has annexed his: that is legitimate, even chic; but money or
food he must not steal if he would live. It is the Legion's law.

All was over inside two minutes. The guard, hearing shouts, rushed in and stoically bore away
a limp, bloodstained bundle to the hospital. Nobody blamed the men. Nobody pitied the bundle--except
Max, whose first experience it was of the Legion's swift justice. But nothing, not even exciting
prospects of a march, can be allowed to spoil the Legion's rest; and so it was that in half
an hour the raging avengers had become once more stone figures carved on narrow tombs in a
moonlit mausoleum.

For the first and only time since he had joined Max thoroughly hated the Legion and wished
wildly that he had never come near Sidi-bel-Abbés. Yet did he wish that? If he had not come
he would not have met Colonel DeLisle, his beau ideal of a man and a soldier. He would be a
boy again, it seemed, with his eyes shut in the face of life. And he would miss his sweetest
memory of Sanda: that hour in the Salle d'Honneur of the Legion, when she had christened him
St. George and called him "her soldier." But after all, of what use to him could be his acquaintance
with the Legion's colonel? There was a gulf between them now. And would it not be as well or
better to forget that little episode of friendship with the colonel's daughter? She had probably
forgotten it by this time. And a Legionnaire has no business with women, even as friends. Besides,
Max was in a mood to doubt all friendship. He had had a letter that day--his first letter from
any one in four months--telling him that Grant Reeves had married Josephine Doran.

Of course, Grant had a right to marry Josephine; but not to write until the wedding day was
safely over--as if he had been afraid Max would try to stop it--and then to confess how he
had come with his mother to meet Josephine at Algiers! That was secret and unfriendly, even
treacherous. Max remembered very well how Grant had proposed accompanying Mrs. Reeves, and
he--Max--had rather impetuously vetoed the arrangement, saying it was unnecessary, and guessing
instinctively the budding idea in Grant's mind. It was clear now that Grant had never abandoned
it, that he had from the first planned a campaign to win the heiress before any other man had
a chance with her, and that he had carried out the scheme with never a hitch. The letter, written
on the eve of the wedding, had been three weeks on the way. Grant (the only person except Edwin
Reeves to whom Max had revealed himself as Maxime St. George, Number 1033, in the Tenth Company,
First Regiment of the Foreign Legion) wrote that he was telling nobody where his friend was,
or what he had done. "The day will surely come, dear boy," Grant said--and Max could almost
hear his voice speaking--"when you will wish to blot out these pages from your book of life.
I want to make it easy for you to do so; and I advise you to keep your present resolve: confide
in none of your pals. They might not be as discreet as the governor and I."

"He's glad I'm out of the way," thought Max. "He wants me to be forgotten by every one, and
he wants to forget me himself. If I were on the spot, poor, and hustling to get on somehow
or other in business, it might worry him a little to be seen spending money that used to be mine."

Perhaps it was morbid to attribute these motives to Grant Reeves, who had once been his friend,
but he did attribute them; and conscious that he was actually encouraging morbid thoughts,
Max wondered if he, too, were getting the cafard, the madness of the Legion? Lying there, the
only waking one among the sleepers, fear of unseen, mysterious things, the fear that sometimes
attacks a brave man in the night, leaped at him out of the shadows. He could almost feel the
sharp little claws of the dreaded beetle scratching in his brain. Yes, he'd been a fool to
join the Legion, and to hand over Jack Doran's house and fortune to Grant Reeves! It was impossible
that Grant had married Josephine for love. He had simply taken her with the money, and he meant
to have the spending of it.

In the letter, Grant said that they planned to alter the old Doran house and "bring it up to
date." It was he, Grant, who had all the ideas, apparently. Josephine was letting him do as
he pleased. What should she know about such matters? If she could have all the dresses and
jewels and fur she wanted, Grant would be allowed to go his own way with other things. He was
clever enough to understand that, and to manage Josephine.

With the letter Grant had posted a bundle of Sunday newspapers and illustrated magazines, such
a bundle of old news as one sends to an invalid in hospital. Max had glanced through some of
the papers before going to bed, looking with a sad, far-off sort of interest at portraits of
people whose names he knew. There had been a page of "America's most beautiful actresses" in
one Sunday supplement, and among them, of course, was Billie Brookton. No such page would be
complete without her! It was a new photograph that Max had never seen. The smiling face, head
drooped slightly in order to give Billie's celebrated upward look from under level brows, had
the place of honour in the middle of the page. And a paragraph beneath announced that Billie
would leave the stage on her marriage with "Millionaire Jeff Houston, of Chicago."

No doubt Houston was the man she had mentioned in her last letter. Round her neck, in the picture,
Max thought he recognized his pearls, and on the pretty hand, raised to play with a rope of
bigger pearls--"Millionaire Houston's" perhaps--was the ring Max had given her the night when
the telegram came. The photograph, which was large and clearly reproduced, showed the curiously
shaped stone on the middle finger of Billie's left hand. A large round pearl adorned the finger
on which Max had once hoped she might wear the blue diamond, a pearl so conspicuous that the
original of the picture appeared to display it purposely. "Millionaire Houston" would be flattered;
and that was what Billie Brookton wanted. As for what Max Doran might think if he saw the portrait,
why should she care? For her, he was numbered with the dead.

Max was no longer in love with Billie. The shock of Rose Doran's terrible accident, the story
she had to tell, and her death, had chilled the fire of what he thought was love. The letter
of farewell had put it out. But the scar of the burn sometimes hurts. To-night was one of those
times; and Max believed that his disappointment in Billie had had its influence in driving
him to the Legion. She stood now as a type of what was mercenary, calculating, and false in
womankind, just as (almost unknown to himself) Sanda DeLisle stood for what was gentle, yet
brave and true. He felt that Billie Brookton had made him hard, with a hardness that was not
good; and that not only she, but all those he had cared for most in his old life, had deceived
and tricked or at best forgotten him. Lying in his narrow bunk, Max lifted his head and let
his eyes wander over the faces of his comrades, turned to gray stone by the moonlight. Not
one which was not sad, except that of the Alsatian who had joined on the day of his own recruitment.
The boy was smiling in some dream and looked like a child, but a sickly child, for the heat
and the severe marching drill for les bleus were telling upon him. Faces of twenty different
types, faces which by day masked their secrets with sullenness, defiance, or stolidity, could
hide nothing in sleep, but fell into lines of sadness that gave a strange family resemblance
to the stone soldiers on the tombs. Saddest of all, after Manöel Valdez, perhaps, was the wrecked
visage of Pelle, whose own particular cafard had been leading him a merry dance the last few days.

To Sidi-bel-Abbés, with a letter of introduction to the colonel, had come an old officer of
the British army, a man of distinction. Pelle, as an Englishman and an ex-soldier, had been
honoured by being appointed his guide. The two had recognized one another. Pelle had served
under the officer years ago. The encounter had been too much for Quatro Oyos: that, and the
money the general gave him at parting. Remembrance of past days was the enemy in the Legion.
Four Eyes had been half drunk ever since, and had escaped prison only by a miracle. That, however,
was nothing new for him. He had been corporal twice and sergeant once; each time he had been
"broke" because of drink. In spite of all, he had stuck to the Legion. There was no other place
for him on earth. The Legion was his country now--his only country and his only home. His medals
he had asked Max to keep till he "settled down again." They mustn't go to the places where
the cafard would take him. They mustn't risk disgrace through things which the cafard might
make him do. He looked like the ruin of a man in the revealing moonshine. But to-morrow he
would be a soldier again till night came, and sooner or later he would pull himself together--more
or less. The medals he had won and his love of sport were his incentives. Yet there were other
men who had no medals and no special incentives, and to-night Max felt himself down on a level
with those.

"What incentive have I?" he asked, in a flash of furious rebellion against fate, conscious
yet not caring that such thoughts spawned the beetle in the brain. Five years of this life
to look forward to!--the life he had pledged himself to live. The officers did their best.
It was vieux style nowadays for an officer of the Legion to be cruel. But try as they might
to break the sameness of barrack life by changing the order of drill and exercise--fencing
one day, boxing the next, then gymnastics, target-practice, marching, skirmishing, learning
first aid to the wounded, giving all the variety possible, the monotony was heart-breaking,
as Colonel DeLisle had warned him it would be. And a great march, when a march meant the chance
of a fight, didn't always come in the way of a young soldier, even one whose conduct was unsmirched
by any stain. Max did not know yet whether he would be taken on the march that all the garrison
was talking of. To-night the beetle in his brain tried to make him think he would not be taken.
There was no luck any more for him! And as for his corporal's stripe, if he got it soon, what
a pathetic prize for a man who had been a lieutenant in the --th Cavalry, the crack cavalry
regiment of the United States Army!

Oh, better not to think of future or past! Better not to think at all, perhaps, but do as some
of the other men did when they wanted to forget even as they had been forgotten: take the few
pleasures in their reach, do the very things he had been prig enough to warn Valdez not to
do! Let the beetle burrow, as a counter-irritant!

"Soldier St. George--my soldier!" a girl's voice seemed to encourage him.

Max heard it through the scratching of the beetle in his brain.

Sanda! Yes, Sanda might care a little, a very little, when she had time to think of him--Sanda,
who loved another man, but had promised to be his friend. He thought of her eyes as they had
looked at him that day in the Salle d'Honneur. He thought of her hair, her long, soft hair....

"She'd be sorry if I let go," he said to himself. "Jove! I won't! I'll fight this down. And
if I'm taken on the march----"

He fell suddenly asleep, thinking of Sanda's hair, her long, soft hair.

And the moonlight turned him also into a stone soldier on a tomb.

CHAPTER XVII

THE MISSION

It is the darkest hour that comes before the dawn. Next day Soldier St. George became Corporal
St. George, and felt more pleasure in the bit of red wool on his sleeve than Lieutenant Max
Doran would have thought possible.

It was Four Eyes who brought him the news, a week later, that his name was among those who
would go on "the great march." Four Eyes was somehow invariably the first one to hear everything,
good news or bad. Life was not so black after all. There need be no past for a Legionnaire,
but there might be a future. None of the men knew for certain when the start was to be made,
but it would be soon, and the barracks of the Legion seethed with excitement. Even those who
were not going could talk of nothing else. They swore that there was no doubt of the business
to be done. The newly risen leader of the Senussi had summoned large bands of the sect to the
village, El Gadhari, of which he was sheikh, calling upon them ostensibly to celebrate a certain
feast. Close to this village was one of the most important Senussi monasteries. Tribes were
moving all through the south, apparently with no warlike intention; but the Deliverer was dangerous.
Just such a leader as he--even to the gray eyes and the horseshoe on his forehead--had been
prophesied for this time of the world. The Legion would march. And it would maneuver in the
desert, in the neighbourhood of El Gadhari. If the warning were enough--there would be no fighting;
but the Legion hoped it might not be enough. To be the regiment ordered to give this warning
was in itself an honour, for wherever work is hardest there the Legion goes. The Legion must
sustain its reputation, such as it is! Desperate men, bad men, let them be called by civilians
in times of peace, but give them fighting and they are the glorious soldiers who never turn
back, who, even when they fall in death, fall forward as they rush upon the enemy. All the
world knew that of them, and they knew it of themselves. They knew, also, that when the moment
of starting came men of Sidi-bel-Abbés who drew away from them in the streets and the Place
Carnot would take off their hats as the Legion went by. It would be "Vive la Legion!" then.

With each day of burning heat the excitement grew more feverish. Surely this morning, or this
night, the order would come! The soldiers whistled as they polished their accoutrements, whistled
half beneath their breath the "March of the Legion" which the band is forbidden to play in
garrison. Quarrels were forgotten. Men who had not spoken to each other for weeks grinned in
each other's faces and offered one another their cheap but treasured cigarettes.

Almost every one seemed to be happy except Garcia. He was among those who would not be taken
on the march--he, who craved and needed to go, as did no other man in the Legion! Max feared
Garcia meant to kill himself the night when he lost hope, and would not let him go out alone
to walk in the darkness. "I don't want to ask if you have any plans," he said. "But there's
one thing I do ask: share with me the money I've got left. You may need it. I shan't. And if
you'll take it, that'll be proof that you think as much of me as I do of you."

Garcia took it, from the wallet which a man now lying in the hospital had tried to empty the
other night. Then Max knew for certain what the queer light in Manöel's eyes meant. He could
not help a rejoicing thrill in the other's desperate courage which no obstacle had crushed.

That same night, when the two had separated (St. George reassured, and believing that Garcia
had use for his life after all), Max met Colonel DeLisle face to face, for the first time alone
and unofficially since they had parted in the Salle d'Honneur. The colonel was walking unaccompanied,
in the street not far from the little garden of the officers' club, where the band was to give
a concert, and returning Max's quick salute he turned to call him back.

"Good evening, Corporal! I should like to speak with you a minute!" DeLisle cried out cheerfully
in English. Max's heart gave a bound. Surely never could the word "Corporal" have sounded so
like fine music in a poor, non-commissioned officer's ears!

He wheeled, pale with pleasure that his beau ideal should wish to speak with him, and in English,
the language they had used when they were still social equals. "My Colonel!" he stammered.

"I want to congratulate you on your quick promotion," said DeLisle. "It has come to you in
spite of your resolution to take no advantage in the beginning over your comrades. I congratulate
you on that, too, and on keeping it, now it has turned out so well. I hoped and believed it
would be so, though I advised you for your good."

"I know that, my Colonel," answered Max, determined not to presume in speech or act upon his
superior officer's kindness. "I knew it then."

"It may seem a pitifully small step up," DeLisle went on, "but it's the first reward the Legion
can give a soldier. There will be others. I shall have to congratulate you again before long,
I'm sure. Meanwhile, I have a message for you." He paused for an instant, slightly hesitating,
perhaps. "It is from my daughter. She is in the south, visiting the daughter of an Agha who
is very loyal to France as a servant, very loyal to me as a friend. Because of the march last
spring, and again this one, now coming (which I expected for this time, and on which I must
go myself), I could not have a young girl like Sanda living in Sidi-bel-Abbés. She is happy
and interested where she is, and she has not forgotten you. In more than one letter she has
wished to be remembered to you, if possible. To-night, Corporal, it is possible, and I'm glad
to give the message."

"I thank you for it, my Colonel," Max said, half ashamed of the deep feeling which his voice
betrayed. "I--wish I might be able to thank Miss DeLisle. It is a great deal to me that she
should remember me--my----"

"Your chivalry? It would be impossible to forget," DeLisle took him up crisply. Then he dismissed
the subject, as Max felt. "Tell me," he went on in the same cheerful tone in which he had called
out "Corporal!" "Are you happy to escape the caserne, and get away to the desert?"

Suddenly a wild idea sprang into Max's head. Desperately, not daring to let himself stop and
think, he spoke. "I should be happy, my Colonel, but for one thing. Have I your permission
to tell you what it is?"

"Yes," said DeLisle. "If I can help you in the matter, I will."

"My Colonel, it's in your power to do me a favour I would repay you for with my life if necessary,
though"--and Max began to stammer again--"that would be at your service in any case. The best
friend I have made in the regiment would give his soul to go on this march. I know he hasn't
always behaved as a soldier ought, but he's as brave as he is hot tempered and reckless. If
it could be reconsidered----"

"You mean Garcia?" broke in Colonel DeLisle sharply.

Max was astonished. Instantly he saw that the colonel must have been watching his career. He
might have guessed as much from the reward of merit just given him--friendly congratulations
and Sanda's message, a thousand times more valued for the delay; and he had begun to realize
that he had never been abandoned, never forgotten. But the colonel's knowledge of his friendship
with Garcia brought the thrilling truth home, almost with a shock.

"Yes, my Colonel--Garcia," he replied.

"Well, I can make no promise," said DeLisle, speaking now more in the tone of an officer with
a subordinate, yet showing that he was not vexed. "But--I should like you to go away happy,
Corporal. I'll look into the affair of your friend, and after that--we shall see. Good-night."

Again the salute was exchanged, and the colonel was gone, turning in at the garden gate of
the Cercle Militaire. The meeting, and all that had passed, seemed like a waking dream. Max
could hardly believe it had happened, that Sanda had sent him a message, that her father had
given it, and that he, scarcely more than a bleu, had dared to speak for Manöel Valdez.

That day it proved not to be a dream, for Garcia learned officially that he was to go with
his comrades. Max hardly knew whether or not it would be wise to explain how the miracle had
come to pass, but there was a reason why he wished to tell. When the truth was out, and Valdez
ready to worship his friend, Max said: "I did it before I stopped to think; if I had stopped,
I don't know--for you see, in a way, this makes me a traitor to the colonel. I begged him for
a favour and he granted it. Yet you and I understand what your going means. I've been asking
him for your chance to--well, we won't put it in words! Only, for God's sake, try to think
of some other way to do what you've got to do!"

"Even you admit that I have got to do it!" Valdez argued. "To save a woman--it's to save her
life, you know."

"I know," said Max. "But there may be some other way than this one in your mind."

"If there is, I'll take it. And now I can give you back your money."

"No! You'll need every sou if----"

"You're the best friend a man ever had!" cried the Spaniard.

At midnight the alarm they were all waiting for sounded, and though it was expected at any
hour, it came as a surprise.

"Aux armes!" rang out the call of the bugle from the barrack-yard and waked the stone soldiers
to instant life. The flat, carved figures sat up on their narrow tombs in the moonlight, then
sprang to their feet. There was no need or thought of discipline with that glorious alarm sounding
in their ears! The men yelled with joy and roared from dormitory to dormitory in the wonderful
Legion language made up of chosen bits from every other language of the world.

"Faites les sacs. En tenue de campagne d'Afrique!" bawled excited corporals. Everything had
to be done in about ten minutes; and though all soldiers knew the programme thoroughly, and
young soldiers had gone through it in drill a hundred times, the real thing was somehow different.
Men stumbled over each other and forgot what to do first. Corporals swore and threatened; but
to an onlooker the work of packing would have seemed to go by magic. At the end of the ten
minutes the barrack-yard was full of men lined up, ready for marching, and soldiers of all
nations thanked their gods for finding that the cartridges served out to them from the magazine
were not blank ones. They had all protested their certainty that this march was for business;
and when they had heard that their colonel was going with them they had been doubly sure; yet
in their hearts they had anxiously admitted that it was guesswork. Now these blessed cartridges
packed full of the right stuff put an end to furtive doubts.

As the companies formed up, the "Legion's March" was played, and the young soldiers who had
never heard it, unless whistled sotto voce by old Legionnaires, felt the thrill of its tempestuous
strains in the marrow of their bones.

Nowadays the great marches of the Foreign Legion are not what they once were, unless for government
maneuvers. When there is need of haste the Legion goes by the railway the Legion has helped
to lay; and only at the end of the line begins the real business for which the Legion lives.
For the Legion is meant for the hardest marching (with the heaviest kits in the world) as well
as the fiercest fighting; and when the Legion marches through the desert, it is "marcher ou
mourir."

The cry of the bugles reached the ears of the heaviest sleepers in town; for those who knew
the Legion and the Legion's music knew that the soldiers were off for a great march, or that
wild air would not be played. Windows flew up and heads looked down as the soldiers tramping
the bright moonlit street went to the railway station. So the "lucky ones" of the Legion passed
out of Sidi-bel-Abbés, some of them never to return. And perhaps that was lucky, too, for it's
as well for a Legionnaire to rest in the desert as under one of the little black crosses behind
the wall of cypresses in the Legion's burial ground.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had to go by the new railway line to Touggourt, as Sanda DeLisle had gone, but instead
of travelling by passenger train, the soldiers went as Max had seen the batch of recruits from
Oran arrive at Bel-Abbés: in wagons which could be used for freight or France's human merchandise:
"32 hommes, 6 cheveaux." After Touggourt their way would diverge from Sanda's. There was no
chance for Colonel DeLisle to go and see his daughter, but in a letter he had told her the
date of his arrival in the oasis town and the hope he had--a hope almost a certainty--of hearing
from his girl there, or having a message of love to take with him on the long march, warmed
his heart. It was very strange, almost horrible, to remember how he had felt toward his daughter
until the day she came to him, in the image of his dead love, at Sidi-bel-Abbés. He had not
wanted to see her. He had even felt that he could not bear to see her. Unjust and brutal as
it was, he had never been able to banish the thought that, if it had not been for her, his
wife might have been with him through the years. Sanda had cost him the happiness of his life.

He had easily persuaded himself that in any case, even if he had wanted her with him, for her
sake it was far better not. Such an existence as his was not for a young woman to share, even
after she had passed the schoolgirl age. It had seemed to DeLisle that the only place for Sanda
was with her aunts, and passing half her time in France, half in Ireland, gave the girl a chance
to see something of the world. She was not poor, for she had her mother's money; and because
he wished to contribute something toward his daughter's keep, rather than because she needed
it, he always paid for her education and her board. What she had of her own, from her mother,
must be saved for her dot when she married; and half unconsciously he had hoped that she would
marry early.

After he saw her--the lovely young thing who had run away to him, as her mother had--all that
had been changed in an instant. His heart was at her little feet, as it had been at the feet
of the first Sanda, whose copy she was.

His time for the next few months was so mapped out that he could not have the girl with him
for more than the first few days of joy, for she could not be left in Sidi-bel-Abbés while
he was away on duty. He had done the best he could for his daughter by giving her a romantic
taste of desert life in the house of a tried friend whom he believed he might trust; but he
thought tenderly and constantly of la petite, and of future days when they might be together--if
he came back alive from those "maneuvers" near El Gadhari. Approaching Touggourt, the first
scene of his life's great love tragedy, he could hardly wait for the letter he hoped for from
Sanda. He expected another event, also the pleasure of meeting Richard Stanton, whom he had
not seen for years, and who would be, he knew, at Touggourt, getting together a caravan for
that "mad expedition" (as every one called it) in search of the Lost Oasis. But if Stanton
had cared as much for his old friend as in past days, he had protested, he would have given
a day or two to go out of his way and visit the Colonel of the Foreign Legion at its headquarters.
He had not done that, and though DeLisle told himself that he was not hurt, his enthusiasm
at the thought of the meeting was slightly dampened. He looked forward more keenly to Sanda's
letter than to an encounter with his erratic friend. It was good to have something heart-warming
to hope for in a place so poignantly associated with the past.

There was plenty for the Legionnaires to do in Touggourt. Having come by rail, their first
camp was made in the flat space of desert between the big oasis town and the dunes. They were
to stay only a few hours, for the first stage of their march would begin long before sun-up,
and most of their leisure was to be spent in sleep. Yet somehow there was time for a look at
the sights of the place. One of these was a large Arab café on the outskirts of the town where
the trampled sand of the streets became a vast, flowing wave of gold. Four Eyes had been in
Touggourt more than once, having marched all the way from Bel-Abbés, long before the railway
was begun or thought of. He urged Max to come into the low white building where at dusk the
räita and the tomtom had begun to scream and throb.

"Prettiest dancing girls of the Sahara," he said, "and a fellow there I used to know in Bel-Abbés--in
the Chasseurs--has just told me there's a great show for to-night."

There were several cafés in Sidi-bel-Abbés, where the proprietors engaged Arab girls to dance,
but Max, who had paid one visit, in curiosity, thought the women disgusting and the dancing
dull. He said that he had no faith in the Touggourt attractions, and would rather take a stroll.

"You don't know what you're talking about!" Four Eyes scouted his objections. "Haven't you
heard the scandal about this Stanton, the exploring man, who's here--our colonel's old pal?"

"No, I've heard that Stanton's at Touggourt. But I've heard no scandal," answered Max. "What
has he got to do with the dancing girls?"

As he spoke, it was as if he saw Stanton sitting with Sanda DeLisle at one of the little tea-tables
on the terrace of the Hotel St. George at Algiers; the square, resolute, red-tanned face, and
the big, square blue eyes, burning with aggressive vitality.

"Everything to do with one of them," said Four Eyes. "That's the scandal. Seems Stanton's been
playing the fool. They say he's half mad, anyhow, about a lot of things--always was, but it
is a bit worse since a touch o' the sun he had a year or two ago. He's off his head about an
Ouled Nail--don't know whether she came here because of him, or whether he picked her up at
Touggourt, but the story is, he could o' got away before now, with his bloomin' caravan, on
that d----d fool expedition of his you read of in the papers, only he couldn't bring himself
to leave this Ahmara, or whatever her crack-jaw name is. The chap that was talkin' to me says
she's the handsomest creature you'd see in a lifetime, an' she's going to dance to-night to
spite Stanton."

"To spite him?" Max repeated, not understanding.

"Yes, you d----d young greenhorn! Anybody'd know you was new to Africa! These girls, when they
get to be celebrated for their looks or any other reason, won't dance in public as a general
thing. They leave that to the common ones, who need to do something to attract. Anyhow, Stanton
wouldn't have let this Ahmara dance in a café before a crowd of nomads from the desert. She
lives with the dancing lot, because there's some law or other about that for these girls, but
that's all, till to-night. There's been a row, my old pal told me, because Stanton gives my
lady the tip not to come near or pretend to know him while his friend the colonel is here.
She's in such a beast of a rage she's announced to the owner of the café that she'll dance
to-night; and I bet every man in Touggourt except Stanton and DeLisle'll be there. You'll come,
won't you?"

"Yes, I'll come," said Max. He was ashamed of himself for so readily believing the scandal
about Stanton, yet he did believe it. Stanton had struck him as the type of man who would stop
at nothing he wanted to do. And Max was ashamed, also, because he felt an involuntary rush
of pleasure in thinking evil of Stanton. He knew what that meant. He had been jealous of Stanton
at Algiers, and he supposed he was mean enough to be jealous of him still. If Sanda knew the
truth, would she be disgusted and cease to care for her hero, her "Sir Knight?" Max wondered.
But perhaps she would only be sad, and forgive him in her heart. Girls were often very strange
about such things. Max, however, could not forgive Stanton for ignoring the exquisite blossom
of love that might be his, and grasping instead some wild scarlet flower of the desert not
fit to be touched by a hand that had pressed Sanda's little fingers. He did not know whether
or not to be equally ashamed of the curiosity which made him say to Pelle that he would see
the dancer; but he yielded to it.

Already the great bare café was filling up. In the dim yellow light of lamps that hung from
the ceiling, or branched out from the smoky, white-washed walls, the throng of dark men in
white burnouses, crowding the long benches or sitting on the floor, was like a company of ghosts.
Their shadows waved fantastically along the walls as they strode noiselessly in, wild as spirits
dancing to the voice of their master Satan, the seductive räita. At one end of the room sat
the musicians, all giant negroes, the scars and tattoo marks on their sweating black faces
giving them a villainous look in the wavering light. They were playing the bendir, the tomtom,
the Arab flute, as well as the räita; but the räita laughed the other music down.

This café was celebrated for the youth and beauty of its dancers, and one after another delicate
little sad-faced girls, almost children, danced and waved gracefully their thin arms tinkling
with silver bracelets, but the ever-increasing crowd of Arabs and French officers and soldiers
(tourists there were none at that time of year) scarcely troubled to look at the dainty figures.
They were waiting, eager-eyed. If Max had not known beforehand that something was expected,
he would have guessed it. At last she came, the great desert dancer said to be the most beautiful
Ouled Nail of her generation.

Max did not see how or whence she arrived, but he heard the rustling and indrawing of breaths
that heralded her coming. And then she was there, in the square left open for the dancing.
All the light in the room seemed to focus upon her, so did she scintillate from head to foot
with spangles. Even he felt a throb of excitement as the tall, erect figure stood in the space
between the benches, eying the audience from under a long veil of green tissue almost covered
with sparkling bits of gold and silver. On her head she wore a high golden crown, and under
the green veil fell a long square shawl of some material which seemed woven entirely of gold.
Her dress was scarlet as poppy petals, and she appeared to be draped in many layers of thin
stuff that flashed out metallic gleams. For a long moment she stood motionless. Then, when
she had made her effect, suddenly she threw up her veil. Winding it around her arm, she snatched
it off her head, and paused again, unsmiling, statue-still, except for her immense dark eyes,
encircled with kohl, which darted glances of pride and defiance round the silent room. Perhaps
she was looking for some one whom she half expected might be there. Max felt the long-lashed
eyes fix themselves on him. Then, receiving no response, they passed on and shot a fiery challenge
into the eyes of a young caid in a gold-embroidered black cloak, who bent forward from his
carpeted bench in a dream of admiration.

She was perfect in her way, a living statue of pale bronze, with the eyes of a young tigress
and the mouth of a passionate child. The gold crown, secured with a scarf of glittering gauze,
the rows of golden coins that hung from her looped black braids over her bosom and down to
the huge golden buckle at her loosely belted waist, gave her the look of an idol come to life
and escaped from some shrine of an eastern temple. As she moved, to begin the promised dance,
she exhaled from her body and hair and floating draperies strange, intoxicating perfumes which
seemed to change with her motions--perfumes of sandalwood and ambergris and attar-of-rose.

For the first time Max understood the meaning of the Ouled Nail dance. This child-woman of
the desert, with her wicked eyes and sweet mouth, made it a pantomime of love in its first
timid beginnings, its fears and hesitations, its final self-abandon and rapture. Ahmara was
a dangerous rival for a daughter of Europe with such a man as Richard Stanton.

When she had danced once, she refused to indulge the audience again, but staring scorn at the
company, accepted a cup of coffee from the handsome young caid in the black mantle. She sat
beside him with a fierce air of bravado, and ignored every one else, as though the dimly lit
room in which her spangles flamed was empty save for their two selves. So she would have sat
by Max if he had given back glance for glance; but he pushed his way out quickly when Ahmara's
dance was over, and drew in long, deep breaths of desert air, sweet with wild thyme, before
he dared let himself even think of Sanda. Sanda, who loved Stanton--with this recompense!

As he walked back to camp, to take what rest he could before the early start, he met a sergeant
of his company, a tall Russian, supposed to be a Nihilist, who had saved himself from Siberia
by finding sanctuary in the Legion.

"I have sent two men to look for you," he said. "The colonel wants you. Go to his tent at once."

Max went, and at the tent door met Richard Stanton coming out. Max recognized his figure rather
than his features, for the light was at his back. It shone into the Legionnaire's face as he
stepped aside to let the explorer pass, but Stanton's eyes rested on the corporal of the Legion
without interest or recognition. The colonel had just bidden him good-bye, and he strode away
with long, nervous strides. "Will he go to the café and see Ahmara with the caid?" The thought
flashed through Max's mind, but he had no time to finish it. Colonel DeLisle was calling him
into the tent.

The only light was a lantern with a candle in it; yet saluting, Max saw at once that the colonel's
face was troubled.

"Have I done anything I oughtn't to have done?" he questioned himself anxiously, but the first
words reassured as much as they surprised him.

"Corporal St. George, I sent for you because you are the only one among my men of whom I can
ask the favour I'm going to ask."

"A favour--from me to you, my Colonel?" Max echoed, astonished.

"Yes. You asked me for one the other night, and I granted it because it was easy, but this
is different. This is very hard. If you do the thing, you will lose the march and the fight
which we may come in for at the end. Is there anything that could make up to you for such a
sacrifice?"

"But, my Colonel," answered Max, "you have only to give me your orders, and whatever they may
be I shall be happy to carry them out." He spoke firmly, yet he could not hide the fact that
this was a blow. He had looked forward to the march, hard as it might be, and to the excitement
at the end as a thirsty man looks forward to a draught of water.

"But I am not going to give you any orders," said DeLisle. "It would not be fair or right.
This is a private matter. I have just received a letter from my daughter with rather bad news.
I told you she was staying in the house of one of the great chiefs of the south, a friend of
years' standing, who has a daughter of her age. I needn't give you details, but Sanda has unfortunately
offended this man in perhaps the one way an Arab, no matter how enlightened, cannot forgive.
From what she tells me I can't wholly blame him for his anger, but--it's impossible for her
to stop longer in his house. Not that she's in danger--no! that's incredible, Ben Râana being
the man he is. An Arab's ideas of hospitality would prevent his offering to send a guest away,
no matter how much he might want to be rid of her. Yet I can't endure the thought of asking
him for a caravan and guard after what seems to have happened. You realize that it is impossible
for me to go myself. My duty is with my regiment. Once before, you watched over my daughter
on a journey--watched over her as a brother might watch over a sister. That is why I ask, as
a favour from one man to another, whether you would be willing to go to the Agha's house and
escort my daughter here to Touggourt. I know how much I am exacting of a born soldier like
yourself."

"My Colonel, you are conferring on me the Cross of the Legion of Honour!" Max cried out impulsively.

"Then you accept?"

"I implore you to accept me for the service."

"But do you thoroughly understand what it means? We go on without you. It will be hopeless
for you to follow us. I give you eight days' leave, which will be ample time for the engaging
of a small caravan--three or four good men and the wife of one to act as servant to my daughter--going
to Ben Râana's place at Djazerta, arriving again at Touggourt, and returning to Bel-Abbés.
I shall have to send you back there, you see. There's nothing else to do."

"I understand, my Colonel. But though I'm sorry to lose the experience, I'd rather be able
to do this for you and for Mademoiselle DeLisle than anything else."

"Thank you. That's settled then, except details. We'll arrange them at once, for you must get
off to-morrow as soon as possible after our start. Another man must be appointed in your place,
Corporal. At Sidi-bel-Abbés you shall have special work while we are gone. There hasn't been
much time for thinking since I got the news, but I have thought that out. At first, I may as
well tell you, my idea was to ask Stanton to put off his expedition and go to Ben Râana's.
But--something I heard to-night turned me against that plan. I should like to have another
man with you out of the regiment in case of trouble. Not that there can be trouble! But I shouldn't
feel justified in asking for a second volunteer. All the men are so keen! It's bad enough to
send one away on a private matter of my own, and----"

In his flush of excitement the soldier interrupted his colonel.

"Sir, I know of one! My friend would be glad to go with me!"

"You speak of Garcia again?"

"Yes, my Colonel."

"Are you sure of him?"

"I am sure."

"Very well. Talk to him then. Come back to me afterward, and I'll give you all instructions."

The name of the Agha and the name of the place where he lived were ringing through Max's head.
Ben Râana--Djazerta!

The father of the girl Manöel Valdez loved and must save was the Agha of Djazerta. Now Valdez
need not desert!

CHAPTER VIII

GONE

There was keen curiosity and even jealousy concerning the errand which suddenly separated Corporal
St. George and his chum Juan Garcia from the march of the Legion. None of their late comrades
knew why they had gone or where, unless it were Four Eyes, who swaggered about looking secretively
wise.

"I told St. George," said he to such young men of the Tenth as were admitted to the honour
of speech with the ex-champion, "I told St. George to fire first at an Arab's face if he got
any fighting. That's the way! The Arab ain't prepared, and he's scared blue for fear of his
head bein' busted off his body. If that happens only his head goes to Paradise and can't have
any fun. Nobody but old Legionnaires who've seen a lot of service have got that tip."

Because of Four Eyes' hints the story went round that St. George and Garcia had been sent off
on special reconnaissance duty. And the Legion marched as only the Legion can, with its heavy
kit, its wonderful tricks to cure footsore feet, its fierce individual desire to bear more
fatigue than is human to endure, its wild gayety, its moods of sullen brooding. For a while
it expected to see St. George and Garcia appear as suddenly and mysteriously as they had disappeared.
But they did not come back. And days and nights passed by; so at last, as the Legion drew nearer
to El Gadhari, the absent pair were talked of no more. There was much to think of and to suffer,
and it was not strange if they were half-forgotten except by two men: one who knew the secret
and one who pretended to know: Colonel DeLisle and Four Eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Corporal St. George arrived at the oasis town of Djazerta he had with him in his small
caravan no other man in the uniform of the Legion. He had only camel-drivers in white or brown
burnouses, nomads who live in tents, and whose womenfolk go unveiled without losing the respect
of men. They had come from the black tents outside Touggourt, all but one, who joined the party
after it had started, following on a fast camel. He was a dark-faced man like the rest, and
wore such garments as the others wore, only less shabby than theirs, and none but the leader
knew him or why he had come. The Arab fashion of covering the body heavily, and especially
of protecting the mouth in days of heat as well as cold, was observed religiously by this tall,
grave person. The one woman of the band, Khadra, wife of the chief camel-driver, wondered if
the stranger had any disfigurement; but her husband smiled a superior smile, remarking that
women have room in their minds only for curiosity about what can never concern them. As for
the newcomer, he was as other men, though not as pleasant a companion as some. According to
his own account, he had been born in Djazerta, though he had lived in many places and learned
French and Spanish in order to make money as an interpreter.

When the caravan reached Djazerta they found the oasis town indulging in festivities because
of the marriage of the Agha's daughter. The customary week of feasting and rejoicing was at
its height, but, to the disappointment of every one, the bride and all the Agha's family had
in the midst of the celebrations suddenly gone out to the douar, the desert encampment of the
tribe over which Ben Râana ruled as chief. This was unprecedented for the wedding of great
personages that the end of the entertainment should take place in the douar; but it was said
that the bride was ill with over-excitement, and rather than put off the marriage, her father
had decided to try the effect of desert air.

This was the news which was told to Max at the Agha's gates after his forced march from Touggourt.
It was translated for him into French by his interpreter, the dark-faced man who covered his
mouth even more closely than did the dwellers in the black tents near Touggourt; for Max, though
he had studied Arabic of nights in the Legion's library, and taken lessons from Garcia, could
not yet understand the desert dialects when spoken quickly. An interpreter was a real necessity
for him on a desert journey with Arabs to command, and as the two talked together outside the
open gate in the high white wall, discussing the situation, neither the Agha's men nor any
man of the caravan could understand a word. The language they used was a mystery. French, English,
Spanish--all were jargons to these people of the southern desert.

"At the douar!" Max repeated. "Where is it?"

"Not twenty miles away," answered Manöel, keeping all feeling out of his voice, as an interpreter
should. "But it's between here and Touggourt. Not exactly on the way, still we could have reached
it by taking a détour of a few kilometres off the caravan track and saved hours, precious hours."

"Never mind," said Max, worried though he was because of the delay that meant something to
him, if not as much as to Manöel. "Never mind. We shall be in time yet. They say the festivities
are only half over. That means she isn't married. Buck up! I know this is a shock; but it isn't
a surprise that the wedding feast should be on. You've been expecting that. You've even been
afraid it might be all over."

"But something has happened, or they wouldn't have taken her away," Manöel said.

"Perhaps she tried to escape," Max suggested. "Would it be harder for her to do that at the
douar than here?"

"In a way, yes. Here she might be hidden for a while in some house of the village: it's a rabbit
warren, as you can see. Whereas, round the douar lies the desert open to all eyes. Still, it's
easier to get out of a tent than a house."

"Well, let's be off and see for ourselves, instead of guessing," proposed his friend with an
air of cheerfulness. Manöel knew the errand which had brought Corporal St. George (and incidentally
himself) to Djazerta at this eleventh hour, but Max and he had never spoken together of Colonel
DeLisle's daughter Sanda except casually, as Ourïeda's guest. Manöel, his thoughts centred
upon his own affairs, had no idea that Mademoiselle DeLisle was personally of importance in
St. George's life. If he had seen that Max was anxious, he would have taken the anxiety for
sympathy with him, or else the nervousness of a keen soldier who had only eight days' leave
and small provision for delays.

Having finished their discussion, they politely refused an invitation, in the absent Agha's
name, to spend the night in his guest house, and started out to retrace some kilometres of
the track they had just travelled. This, thought the Agha's head gatekeeper, was a foolish
decision, no matter how pressing might be the soldier's business with Ben Râana, for already
it was past sunset, and there was no moon. These men were strangers, and could not know their
way to the douar except as it was described to them. But what could one expect? Their leader
was a Roumi, a Christian dog, and all such were fools in the eyes of God's children who knew
that the lesson of life was patience.

CHAPTER XIX

WHAT HAPPENED AT DAWN

Sanda DeLisle's short life had not been brilliantly happy. She had known the ache of feeling
herself unwanted by the only two human beings of paramount importance in her world: her almost
unknown father, and her adored "Sir Knight" and hero Richard Stanton. But never for more than
a few hours of concentrated pain, like those at Algiers, had she suffered for herself as she
suffered for Ourïeda.

The "Little Rose," defenceless against the men who had power over her fate (as all Arab women
are defenceless, unless they choose death instead of life), appealed to the latent motherhood
that slept in the heart of Sanda, as in the heart of every normal girl: appealed to the romance
in her: appealed to the sympathy born of her own love for Stanton, which seemed as hopeless
as Ourïeda's love for Manöel Valdez. Would Manöel come in answer to one of those secretly sent
letters? Would anything happen to save Ourïeda from Tahar? The girl brought up to be a Roman
Catholic prayed to the Blessed Virgin. The girl brought up to be a Mohammedan prayed to Allah.
And the prayers of both, ascending from different altars, like smoke of incense in a Christian
church and in a mosque, rose toward the same heaven. Yet no help came; and the summer days
slipped by, until at last it was September, the month fixed for the wedding.

With the subtlety and soft cowardice of Mussulman women, young or old, Ourïeda said no word
to her father of her loathing for Tahar. When Sanda begged her to tell him at least so much
of the truth and trust to his love, the girl replied always dully and hopelessly in the same
way: it would be useless. He was very fond of her, for her dead mother's sake and her own.
But the fire of youth had died down in his heart. He had forgotten how he felt when love was
the greatest thing on earth. Besides, his own wife had been the exception to all womanhood,
in his eyes. The child she had left had been his dear plaything, his consolation. Now he counted
upon her to fulfil the ambitions of his life, thwarted so far, because she had been a daughter.
To have his nephew, his heir by law, become the father of his grandsons, was his best hope
now, and nothing except Ourïeda's death or Tahar's death would make him give it up.

"My dear nurse Embarka would kill Tahar for me if she could get at him," the "Little Rose"
said one day, calmly. "That would end my trouble, but she cannot reach him, and there is no
one she can trust among those who cook or serve food in the men's part of our house."

Sanda was struck with horror, but Ourïeda could not at first even understand why she was shocked.
"If a viper were ready to strike you or one you loved, would you think harm of killing it?"
she asked. "Tahar is venomous as a viper. I should give thanks to Allah if he were dead, no
matter how he died. But since Allah does not will his death, I must pray for courage to die
myself rather than be false to Manöel, who has perhaps himself gone to Paradise, since he does
not answer when I call; and if a woman can have a soul, I may belong to him there."

Sanda had forgiven her, realizing if not understanding fully the difference between a heart
of the East and a heart of the West, and loving the Arab girl with unabated love. Up to the
hour when Ben Râana came into the garden of the harem and bade his daughter praise Allah because
her wedding day was at hand, Sanda hoped, and begged Ourïeda to hope, that "something might
happen." But even to her that seemed the end, for the girl listened with meekness and offered
no objection except that the hot weather had stolen her strength: she was not well.

"Let the excitement of being a bride bring back thy health, like wine in thy veins, Little
Rose," said the Agha, speaking in French out of compliment to the guest, and to show her that
there was no family secret under discussion which she might not share.

"It is not exciting to marry my cousin Tahar," Ourïeda sighed rather than protested. "He is
an ugly man, dreadful for a girl to look upon as her husband."

"Thou makest me feel that thine aunt is right when she tells me I was wrong ever to let thee
look upon him or any man except thy father," the Agha answered quickly, with a sudden light
behind the darkness of his eyes like the flash of a sword in the night. Sanda, knowing what
she knew, guessed at a hidden meaning in the words. He was remembering Manöel, and wishing
his daughter to see that he had never for a moment forgotten the thing that had passed. The
Agha, despite his eagle face, had been invariably so gentle when with the women of his household,
and had seemed so cultured, so instructed in all the tenets of the twentieth century, that
Sanda had sometimes wondered if his daughter were not needlessly afraid of him. But the unsheathing
of that sword of light convinced her of Ourïeda's wisdom. The girl knew her father. If she
dared to urge any further her dislike of Tahar he would believe it was because of Manöel, and
hurry rather than delay the wedding. Illness was the only possible plea, and even to that Ben
Râana seemed to attach little importance. Marriage meant change and new interests. It should
be a tonic for a Rose drooping in the garden of her father's harem.

"Thou seest for thyself that it is no use to plead," whispered Ourïeda when her father had
gone, and Leila Mabrouka and her woman, Taous, on the overhanging balcony, were loudly discussing
details of the feast. "Now, at last, is the time to tell the thing I waited to tell, till the
worst should come: the thing thou couldst do for me, which would be even harder to do, and
take more courage--oh! far more courage!--than leaving the letters open."

The look in Ourïeda's eyes of topaz brown was more tragic, more strangely fatal than Sanda
had ever seen it yet, even on the roof in the sunset when the story of Manöel had been told.
The heart of her friend felt like a clock that is running down. She was afraid to know the
thing which Ourïeda wanted her to do; yet she must know--and make up her mind. It seemed as
if there were nothing she could refuse, still----

"What is it you mean?" she whispered back, the two heads leaning together over a frame of bright
embroidery in Ourïeda's lap, and the tinkle of the fountain drowning the soft voices, even
if the chatter at the door of Leila Mabrouka's room above had not covered the secret words.

"When I said there was a thing I would ask, if the worst came," Ourïeda repeated, "I meant
one of two things. If thou wilt do either, they are for thee to choose between. But thou wilt
think them both terrible, and my only hope is that thou lovest me."

"You know I do," Sanda breathed.

"Enough to do what I am too poor a coward to do for myself, and Embarka has refused to do?"

"Not--oh, no, no, you can't mean----"

"Yes, thou hast guessed. No one need ever suspect. I would think of a way. I've thought of
one already. There'd be no pain for me. And yet--I suppose because I am young and my blood
runs hot in my veins, I fear--I am sure--I couldn't, when the moment came, do it myself."

"Even for you, I can't be a murderess," Sanda said miserably, almost apologetically.

"It is thy strange Christian superstition which makes thee call it that. It would be our fate;
and thou couldst go away and be happy, feeling thou hadst saved me from life which is worse
than death sometimes. Still, if thou wilt not, there is the other thing. Will thou help me
to escape?"

"Oh, yes!" cried Sanda.

"Wait till thou hast heard my plan. Maybe thou wilt change thy mind."

"I feel sure I shan't change it."

"But the plan may make thee hate me, and think I am cruel and selfish, caring for no one except
myself. Besides, there will be lies to tell; and I know thou dost not like lies, though to
me they seem no harm if they are to do good in the end."

"Tell me the plan."

Ourïeda told it, while overhead on the balcony her Aunt Mabrouka--Tahar's mother--chatted of
the merchants in Djazerta who sold silks from Tunis and perfumes from Algiers.

The plan was very hateful, very dangerous and treacherous. But--it was to save Ourïeda. The
Arab girl proposed to Sanda that she should pretend to have a letter from Colonel DeLisle calling
her back at once to Sidi-bel-Abbés, not giving her even time to wait for the wedding. Ben Râana
would reluctantly consent to her going: he would give her an escort--not Tahar, because Tahar
must stay for his marriage--but some trustworthy men of his goum, and good camels. On the camel
prepared for her would be of course a bassourah with heavy curtains: probably the one in which
she had already travelled. It went also without saying that Sanda would make the journey in
Arab dress, such as she had worn during her visit. Ourïeda would pretend to be ill with grief
because her friend must leave her at such a time; already she had prepared the Agha's mind
by complaining of weakness. She would take to her bed and refuse to see any one but her nurse,
Embarka. Lella Mabrouka, glad to be rid of the Roumia girl (of whom, beneath her politeness,
she had always disapproved), and hating illness, would gladly keep out of the way for two or
three days, while the wedding preparations went on. It would be easy, or almost easy, if no
accident happened, Ourïeda argued, for her to go away veiled and swathed in the bassourah,
while Sanda lay in bed in a darkened room. At Touggourt the veiled lady would be met by that
Captain Amaranthe and his wife of whom Sanda had spoken: they must be written to immediately
and told to expect Mademoiselle DeLisle. Then trouble might come, if they suspected, but perhaps
they would not, if Sanda wrote that she had been ill with influenza and had nearly lost her
voice. They might send her off by train, guessing nothing, or, if they did guess, she must
throw herself on Madame Amaranthe's mercy. No woman with a heart would give her up! And if
the plan succeeded, instead of going to Sidi-bel-Abbés she would go to Oran where she could
find a ship that would take her to Marseilles. Her jewels (some which had been her mother's,
and many new ones given by her father) would pay the expenses and keep her in France, hidden
from Ben Râana and beyond his power, until perhaps Manöel found her through advertisements
she would put into all the French papers.

As for Sanda, the result for her when the trick was discovered (as it ought not to be until
Ourïeda had got out of Algeria) would be simple. She was the daughter of Ben Râana's friend,
a soldier of importance in the eyes of France. Colonel DeLisle had entrusted her to the Agha's
care, and she could not be punished as though she were an Arab woman. If Embarka or any member
of Ben Râana's household so betrayed him and his dearest hopes the right revenge would be death,
and no one outside would ever hear what had been done, for tragedies of the harem are sacred.
To Mademoiselle DeLisle, however, her host could do nothing, except send her with a safe escort
out of his home. And that would be her one desire.

At first it seemed to Sanda that she could not do what Ourïeda asked. With tears she said no,
they must think of some other way. And the Little Rose did not argue or plead. She answered
only that she had thought, and there was no other way but the one which Sanda had refused.
Then she was silent, and the light died out of her eyes, leaving them dull, almost glazed,
as if her soul, that had been gazing through the windows, had gone to some dark sepulchre of hope.

It was because of this silence and this look that Sanda changed her mind, after one day and
night, all of which she spent--vainly--in trying to find another plan. A letter did come from
her father, as she and Ourïeda had hoped it might (Colonel DeLisle, while still at Sidi-bel-Abbés,
found time to scribble off a few lines to his girl for each camel post that travelled through
the dunes from Touggourt to Djazerta), and in sickness of heart Sanda pretended that she was
wanted "at home." The Agha was grieved and astonished, but, great Arab gentleman that he was,
would have cut out his tongue rather than question his guest when no information was volunteered.
He asked only if she had been in all ways kindly treated in his house; and when with swimming
eyes she answered "yes," it was enough. The caravan was prepared to take her to Touggourt,
where she would be met by her former travelling companions, Captain Amaranthe and his wife;
and the Agha assured her that only the marriage--an event unlucky to postpone--prevented him
from sending his nephew as before, or going himself as her escort.

The start was to be made very early in the morning, before dawn, in order that the caravan
might rest during the two hours of greatest heat without shortening the day's march; and this
was in the girl's favour. Sanda had said farewell to Lella Mabrouka the night before, that
the lady need not wake before her usual hour: but not only did she wake; she rose, very quietly,
and saw Embarka tiptoeing along the balcony from Sanda's room to Ourïeda's with the new gandourah
and extra thick veil she herself had given the guest to travel in. When Embarka was out of
the way Lella Mabrouka, in her night robe, pattered softly to Sanda's closed door and knocked.
No answer. She peeped in and saw the room empty.

Sanda might have gone to bid Ourïeda good-bye at the last minute: that would be natural; and
it was the last minute, because the sky was changing its night purple for the gray of dawn,
and from the distant courtyard Lella Mabrouka had heard some time ago the grunting of the camels.
(She was a light sleeper always: and afterward she told Ben Râana and Tahar that Allah had
doubtless sent some messenger to touch her shoulder at this hour of fate.) She had had no definite
suspicions until that moment, except that she was always vaguely suspicious of the girls' confidences;
but suddenly an idea leaped into her mind, the suggestion of just such a trick as she herself
would have been subtle enough to play. If the Roumia went to the room of her friend to disturb
her (though Ourïeda had been ailing for days), why did she not go already dressed, by Embarka's
help, for the start, since it was time to set out, and the Agha must be waiting in the courtyard
to bid Allah speed his guest? There might be a simple and innocent reason for what struck Lella
Mabrouka as mysterious, but she determined to find out. With suddenness she flung open the
door of Ourïeda's room (which Embarka, believing Lella Mabrouka safely asleep, had not locked),
and by the light of a French lamp she saw the old nurse draping Ourïeda in the Roumia's veil.
In Ourïeda's green and gold bed from Tunis lay Sanda in a nightdress of Ourïeda's with her
head wrapped up as Ourïeda's was often wrapped by Embarka as a cure for headache.

Instantly the whole plot was clear to the mother of Tahar. She saw how Ourïeda had meant to
go, and how Sanda would have kept her place, guarded from intrusion by the old nurse, until
the fugitive was safely out of reach.

Ourïeda, quick of mind as the older and more experienced woman, explained without waiting to
be asked that she and her dearest Sanda had exchanged clothing, just for a moment, according
to the old Arab superstition that garments changed between those who love have the power of
giving some quality of the owner to the friend. Sanda said nothing at all, knowing that she
would but make matters worse by speaking. When she understood what the story was to be (she
had given hours of each day during the past months to learning Arabic) she sat up in bed and
begun unwrapping her head as if to prepare for the journey, now that time pressed, and she
must again put on her own things. But if she had had the slightest hope that Lella Mabrouka
might be deceived by Ourïeda's plausible excuse, the cold glint of black eyes staring at her
in the lamplight would have stabbed it to death.

A woman of Europe, burning with rage like Mabrouka's, might have blurted out fierce reproaches
or insults; but the woman of the harem did not even put her discovery into words. She looked
at Ourïeda and the Roumia, and said quietly: "It was a charming idea to wear each other's clothes
so that each might have something of the other in her heart forever. Already I can see a likeness.
But do not hurry to change now. I came to say that for a reason, to be explained later, the
caravan cannot start to-day. Our Little White Moon will light our sky for a time longer. Come
with me, Embarka, I have work for thee. These dear children may have the pleasure of dressing
each other."

Ashy pale under her bronze skin, Embarka obeyed without protest, throwing one look at her beloved
mistress as she followed Lella Mabrouka to her fate. Her great, dilated eyes said: "Good-bye
forever, oh, thou whom I love, and for whom I have given myself without regret."

When they were left alone the girls fell into each other's arms as if for protection against
some terrible fate coming swiftly to destroy them. Though the September dawn had in it the
warmth of summer, they shivered as they clung together.

"It is all over!" Ourïeda said. "Allah is against me."

"What will happen?" asked Sanda, a horror of the unknown upon her.

"Nothing to thee. Do not be afraid."

"I'm not afraid for myself. I am thinking of you."

"For me this is the end."

"You don't mean--surely your father will not----"

"He will not take my life. He will take from me his love. And I shall be watched every instant
till I have been given to Tahar. I shall not even have a chance to kill myself--unless I do
it now."

"Ourïeda! No--there's hope still. Who can tell----"

But Ourïeda did not hear. Suddenly she tore herself free from Sanda's arms, and running to
one of the carved cedarwood doors in the white wall of the bedroom, opened a little cupboard.
There, fumbling among perfumed parcels, rolled as Arab women roll their garments, she snatched
from a bundle of silk a small stiletto with a jewelled handle. Sanda had seen it before, and
had been bidden to admire its rough, square emeralds and queerly shaped pearls. The thing had
belonged to Ourïeda's mother, and had been given to the daughter by the Agha on her sixteenth
birthday, nearly a year ago. Ben Râana's Spanish wife had worn it in her dark hair; but Ben
Râana's daughter, even from the first, had thought of it for another purpose. Last night, when
Embarka had packed the jewels among Sanda's things for the secret journey, Ourïeda had kept
out the stiletto in case of failure. Now it was ready to her hand, and before Sanda could reach
her the point of its thin blade pressed the flesh over the heart. But the pin prick of pain
as the skin broke was too sharp a prophecy of anguish for the petted child who knew herself
physically a coward. She gave a cry, dropped the stiletto as if the handle had burnt her, and,
stumbling against the girl who tried to hold her up, fell in a limp heap on the floor.

There was no time to hide the stiletto, even if Sanda had thought to do so, before Taous, Lella
Mabrouka's woman, came quietly into the room. No doubt Mabrouka had meant to send her, but
had not told the girls, because she wished her servant to surprise them. Gathering up Ourïeda,
who had fainted, or seemed to faint, the negress's bright eyes spied the dagger. Freeing one
hand as easily as if Ourïeda's weight had been that of a baby, she took the weapon and slipped
it into her dress. Whether she meant to show the dagger to her mistress, or to keep it for
herself, who could say?

Sanda would not leave Ourïeda when the girl had been laid on the bed by Taous, but presently,
after half an hour's absence, Lella Mabrouka returned. "Thou mayest go now," said the formidable
woman. "We who love and understand her will restore our Rose with her name's perfume, which
has the power of bringing back lost senses. Have no fear for her health, Little Moon. All will
be well with our sweet bride. Dress thyself, not for a journey, but for a visit from my brother,
the Agha, who will do himself the honour of calling upon thee when thou art ready to descend
to our reception-room. Thou being a Roumia, with customs different to ours, may receive him
alone, otherwise I would leave our Little Rose to Taous, and go with thee."

Despite the unbroken courtesy of Mabrouka's manner, or all the more because of its frozen calm,
Sanda was sick with a deadly fear. She was not afraid that the Agha would do her bodily harm,
but the whole world seemed to have come to an end because of her treachery. She did not know
how she could meet his eyes, those eyes of an eagle, after what she had tried to do. She was
afraid he would question her about what she knew of Ourïeda's secrets, and though she resolved
that nothing should make her speak, her heart seemed turning to water.

CHAPTER XX

THE BEAUTY DOCTOR

"If my father were only here!" Sanda said as she went down to the great room of state where
the ladies of the Agha's harem received their few visitors. And then she thought of Maxime
St. George, her soldier. She recalled the night when she had been afraid of the storm, and
he had sat by her through the long hours. Somehow, she did not know why, it helped a little
to remember that.

Ben Râana, graver and sterner than she had seen him, was waiting in the early dawn which struck
out bleak lights from the dangling prisms of the big French chandeliers--the ugly chandeliers
of which Lella Mabrouka was proud. He asked no questions; and somehow that seemed worse than
the ordeal for which Sanda had braced herself. The Agha's voice, politely speaking French,
was studiously gentle, but icy contempt was in his dark eyes when they were not deliberately
turned from the trusted guest who had betrayed him. He said he had summoned her to announce,
with regret, that, owing to the illness of the man appointed as conductor of the caravan, it
would not be able to start for some time. At present there was no other person equally trustworthy
who could be spared. "I am responsible to thy father for thy safety," he added. "And though
we poor Arabs are behind these modern times in many ways, we would die rather than betray a trust."

That was a stroke well aimed under the roses of courtesy, and Sanda could but receive it in
silence. She had supposed when Lella Mabrouka spoke of the caravan not going that it was only
a threat. Her expectation was to be sent out of the house at once, in disgrace, and though
her soul yearned over Ourïeda, all that was timid in her pined to go. It was surprising--if
anything could surprise her then--to hear that she must remain.

"Almost surely I shan't be allowed to see Ourïeda again, and if I can't help her any more I
might as well beg father to send for me at once," she told herself, when Ben Râana, formally
taking leave of her, with hand on forehead and heart, had gone. She went slowly and miserably
to her own room to await developments, and while she waited, hastily wrote the message to Colonel
DeLisle which three days later found him at Touggourt.

In writing, she feared that her letter might never be allowed to reach her father; but she
wronged Ben Râana. He had spoken no more than the truth (though he spoke to hurt) in saying
he would rather die than betray a trust. At that time he still kept his calmness, because the
plot arranged by the two girls had not succeeded. His daughter was still safe under his own
roof, and it was not an unexpected blow to him that she should have wished to escape from Tahar.
He knew in his heart that Ourïeda was more to blame than Sanda, and seeing shame on the young,
pale face of the Roumia he had no fear of anything George DeLisle's daughter might report to
her father. Her letter went by the courier, as all her other letters had gone. Mabrouka's advice
to keep it back, or at least to steam the envelope open and see what was inside, was scorned
by Ben Râana; and to Sanda's astonishment she was actually sent for to visit Ourïeda.

This was in the afternoon of the day whose dawn had seen the girls' defeat. Ourïeda was in
bed, and Taous sat by the open door with an embroidery frame. But Taous understood neither
French nor English. In exchange for the lessons Ourïeda gave Sanda in Arabic, Sanda had given
lessons in English; therefore, lest Aunt Mabrouka might be listening, and lest she might have
picked up more French than she cared to confess, the two girls chose the language of which
Ourïeda had learned to understand more than she could speak.

"How thankful I am to see you, dearest!" cried Sanda. "Didn't you think, after what your aunt
said, that I should be sent away this morning? Would you have dreamed, even if I stayed, that
we should be allowed to meet and talk like this?"

Ourïeda answered, slowly and brokenly, that she had not believed Sanda would be permitted to
go. Aunt Mabrouka had not stopped to reflect when she had made that threat, or else she had
hoped to part them, and to make Ourïeda believe Sanda had gone. "You see," the girl explained
in her halting English, "they--my father and my aunt--shall have too much of the fear to let
you go till after all is finished."

"Finished?"

"When the marrying has been over thou canst go. Then it too late. My father shall be sure,
thee and me, we know where M---- is, that our plan was for him. I say no, but he not believe.
That is for why they keep thee here, so thou not tell M---- things about me. But my father,
he shall not be mean and little in his mind like my aunt. He not listen to the words she speak
when she say not let us meet together. My father know very well now we shall be finded out,
it is the end for us. He not have fear for what we do if some person shall watch to see I not
kill myself."

"What has become of poor Embarka?" Sanda asked.

Ourïeda shook her head, unutterable sadness in her eyes. "I think never shall I know that in
this world."

Ill, without feigning, as the girl was, the wedding was to be hurried on. The original idea
had been for the week of wedding festivities to begin on the girl's seventeenth birthday; but
now Ben Râana said that, in promising his daughter the delay she asked for, he had always intended
to begin the week before and give the bride to the bridegroom on the anniversary of her birth.

Ourïeda no longer pleaded. She had given up hope, and resigned herself with the deadly calmness
of resignation which only women of the Mussulman faith can feel. It was clear that her will
was not as Allah's will. And women came not on earth for happiness. It was not sure that they
even had souls.

"Allah has appointed that I marry my cousin Tahar," she said to Sanda, "and I shall marry him,
because I have not another stiletto nor any poison, and I am always watched so that, even if
I had the courage, I could not throw myself down from the roof. But afterward--I am not sure
yet what I shall do. All I know is that I shall never be a wife to Tahar. Something will happen
to one of us. It may be to me, or it may be to him. But something must happen."

The Agha himself had caused to be built at Djazerta a hammam copied in miniature after a fine
Moorish bath in Algiers, at which he bathed when he went north to attend the governor's yearly
ball. All Arab brides of high rank or low must go through great ceremonies of the bath in the
week of the wedding feast, and no exception could be made in Ourïeda's case. The privacy of
the hammam was secured for the Agha's daughter by hiring it for a day, and no one was to be
admitted to the women's part of the bath except the few ladies who had enough social importance
to expect invitations. That Lella Mabrouka and Sanda would be there was a matter of course;
and, besides them, there were the wives and daughters of two or three sheikhs and caids, all
of whom Sanda already knew by sight, as they had paid ceremonious visits to the great man's
harem since her arrival at Djazerta.

The Agha had a carriage, large, old-fashioned, and musty-smelling, but lined with gold-stamped
crimson silk from Tunis. It could be used only between his house and the town, or to reach
the oasis just beyond, for there was nowhere else to go; but, drawn by stalwart mules in Spanish
harness, for years it had taken the ladies of his household to the baths and back. Lella Mabrouka
and Taous (both veiled, though they had passed the age of attractiveness when hiding the face
is obligatory) chaperoned the bride and her friend, the coachman and his assistant being fat
and elderly eunuchs.

At the doorway of the domed building, the only new one in Djazerta, there was much stately
fuss of screening the ladies as they left the seclusion of the carriage. Then came a long,
tiled corridor, which opened into a room under the dome of the hammam, and there the party
was met not only by bowing female attendants, but by the guests, who had arrived early to welcome
them. Ourïeda was received with pretty cries and childlike, excited chattering, not only by
her girl friends, but the older women. All were undressed, ready for the bath, or they could
not have followed the bride to the hot rooms; and that was the object and pleasure of the visit.
Every one shrieked compliments as the clothing of the Agha's daughter was delicately removed
by the beaming negresses; and gifts of gold-spangled bonbons, wonderfully iced cakes, crystallized
fruit, flowers, gilded bottles of concentrated perfume, mother-o'-pearl and tortoise boxes,
gaudy silk handkerchiefs made in Paris for Algerian markets, and little silver fetiches were
presented to the bride. She thanked the givers charmingly, though in a manner so subdued and
with a face so grave that the visitors would have been astonished had not Lella Mabrouka explained
that she had been ill with an attack of fever.

From hot room to hotter room the women trooped, resting, when they felt inclined, upon mattings
spread on marble, while the bride, the queen of the occasion, was given a divan. They ate sweets
and drank pink sherbet or syrup-sweet coffee, and, instead of being bathed by one of the attendants,
Ourïeda was waited upon by a great personage who came to Djazerta only for the weddings of
the highest. Originally she was from Tunis, where her profession is a fine art; but having
been superseded there she had moved to Algiers, then to Touggourt; and thence the Agha had
summoned her for his daughter. She was Zakia, la hennena, a skilled beautifier of women; and
she had been sent for, some days in advance of the great occasion, in order (being past her
youth) to recover from the fatigue of the journey. None of the young girls had ever seen her,
and exclaiming with joy they fingered her scented pastes and powders.

This bridal bath ceremony, being more intricate than any ordinary bath, took a long time, and
when it was over, and Ourïeda a perfumed statue of ivory, the cooling-room was entered for
the dyeing of the bride's hair. The girl's face showed how she disliked the process; but it
being an unwritten law that the hair of an Arab bride must be coloured with sabgha, she submitted.
After the first shudder she sat with downcast eyes, looking indifferent, for nothing mattered
to her now. Since Manöel would never see it again, and perhaps it would soon lie deep under
earth in a coffin, she cared very little after all that the long hair he had thought beautiful
must lose its lovely sheen for fashion's sake.

Now and then, as she worked, Zakia stooped over her victim, bringing her old, peering face
close to the bowed face of the girl to make sure the dye did not touch it. Sanda, who had been
grudgingly granted a thin muslin robe for the bath because of her strange Roumia ideas of baring
the face and covering the body, noticed these bendings of la hennena, but thought nothing of
them until she happened to catch a new expression in Ourïeda's eyes. Suddenly the gloom of
hopelessness had gone out of them: and it could not be that this was the effect of the compliments
rained upon her in chorus by the guests, for until that instant the most fantastic praise of
hair, features, and figure had not extorted a smile. What could the woman have said to give
back in an instant the girl's lost bloom and sparkle? Sanda wondered. It was like a miracle.
But it lasted only for a moment. Then it seemed that by an effort Ourïeda masked herself once
more with tragedy. She turned one of her slow, sad glances toward her aunt; and Sanda was sure
she looked relieved on seeing Lella Mabrouka absorbed in talk with the plump wife of a caid.

According to custom in great houses of the south, la hennena was escorted, after the women's
fête at the hammam, to the home of the bride, where she was to spend the remainder of the festive
week in heightening the girl's beauty. She was given the guest-room of the harem, second in
importance to that occupied by Colonel DeLisle's daughter. This, as it happened, was nearer
to Ourïeda's room than Sanda's or even Lella Mabrouka's; and as, during the two days that followed,
Zakia was almost constantly occupied in blanching the bride's ivory skin with almond paste,
staining her fingers red as coral with a decoction of henna and cochineal, and saturating her
hair and body with a famous permanent perfume, sometimes Lella Mabrouka and Taous ventured
to leave the two girls chaperoned only by la hennena. That was because neither had seen the
sudden light in Ourïeda's eyes after the face of Zakia had approached hers at the hammam.

For the first day there was no solution of the mystery for Sanda, who had waited to hear she
knew not what. But at last, in a room littered with pastes and perfume bottles, and lighted
by the traditional long candles wound with coloured ribbon, Ourïeda spoke, in Arabic, that
the hennena might not be hurt.

"Zakia says I may tell thee our secret," she said. "At first she was afraid, but now she sees
that she may trust thee as I do. Didst thou guess there was a secret?"

"Yes," answered Sanda.

"I thought so! Well, it is this: At the hammam is employed a cousin of Embarka's. I feared
never to hear of Embarka again; but my father is more enlightened than I thought. He might
have ordered her death, and the eunuchs would have obeyed, and no one would ever have known.
Yet he did no more than send her away, giving her no time even to pack that which was hers.
He did not care what became of her, being sure that she could never again enter our house.
But he did not know of the cousin in the hammam. And perhaps he did not stop to think that
I might have given Embarka jewels for helping me. She would have helped without payment, because
she loved me. But I wished to reward her. She hid the things in her clothing; and when she
was turned out she still thought of me, not of herself. She knew I would go to the hammam before
my marriage, and that Zakia had been sent for to bathe me and make me beautiful. So she gave
her cousin there a present, and all the rest of the jewels she gave to Zakia, for a promise
Zakia made. Nothing has Embarka kept of all my gifts. It was like her! The rest is easy now.
I shall never again know happiness, but neither shall I know the shame of giving myself to
a man I hate when heart and soul belong to one I love."

"Can la hennena help you to escape?" Sanda wanted to know.

"From Tahar, yes. Here is the way," Ourïeda answered. And she held out for Sanda to see a tiny
pearl-studded gold box, one of many quaint ornaments on a chain the girl always wore round
her neck. She had explained the meaning or contents of each fetich long ago, and Sanda knew
all about the sacred eye from Egypt, the white coral horn to ward off evil, the silver and
emerald case with a text from the Koran blessed by a great saint or marabout, and the pearl-crusted
gold box containing a lock of hair certified to be that of Fatma Zora, the Prophet's favourite
daughter.

"I have put the hair with the text," said Ourïeda. "Look, in its place this tiny bottle of
white powder. Canst thou guess what it is for?"

The blood rushed to Sanda's face, then back to her heart. But she did not answer. She only
looked at Ourïeda: a wide-eyed, fascinated look.

"Thou hast guessed," the Agha's daughter said in a very little voice like a child's. "But I
shall not use it if, when I have told him how I hate him, he consents to let me alone. If he
is a fool, why, he brings his fate on himself. This is for his lips, if they try to touch mine."

"But," Sanda gasped; "you would be a----"

"I know the word in thy mind. It is 'murderess.' Yet my conscience would be clear. It would
be for the sake of my love--to keep true to my promise at any cost. And the cost might be my
life. They would find out; they would know how he died. This is no coward's act like smiling
at a man and giving him each day powdered glass or chopped hair of a leopard in his food, which
many of our women do, to kill and leave no trace. If I break, I pay."

As she spoke the door opened and Lella Mabrouka came swiftly into the room, fierce-eyed as
a tigress whose cub is threatened. She was tight-lipped and silent, but her eyes spoke, and
all three knew that she had listened. Such words as she had missed her quick wit had caught
and patched together. Ourïeda's wish to propitiate Zakia by not seeming to talk secrets before
her had undone them both. But it was too late for regrets, and even for lies.

Lella Mabrouka clapped her hands, and Taous came, to be told in a tense voice that the Agha
must be summoned. Then Mabrouka turned to the Roumia.

"Go, thou! This has nothing to do with thee," was all she said.

Sanda glanced at her friend, and an answering glance bade her obey. She rose and went out,
along the balcony to the door of her own room. This she left open, thinking with a fast-beating
heart that if there were any cry she would run back, no matter what they might do to her. But
there was no cry, no sound of any kind, only the cooing of doves which had flown down into
the fountain court, hoping Ourïeda might throw them corn.

The custom of the house was for the three ladies to take their meals together in a room where
occasionally, as a great honour, the Agha dined with them. That evening a tray of food was
brought to Sanda with polite regrets from Lella Mabrouka because she and her niece were too
indisposed by the hot weather to forsake the shelter of their rooms. Politeness, always politeness,
with these Arabs of high birth and manners! thought the Irish-French girl in a passionate revolt
against the curtain of silk velvet softly let down between her and the secrets of Ben Râana's
harem. This time it might be, she said to herself, that politeness covered tragedy. But the
same night she received another message from Mabrouka. It was merely to say that, the air of
Djazerta not being healthful at this time of year, the Agha had decided, for his daughter's
sake, to finish the week of the wedding feast out in the desert, at the douar.

CHAPTER XXI

THE ELEVENTH HOUR

When Max, at the head of his small caravan, came in sight of the Agha's douar, it was almost
noon, and the desert, shimmering with heat, was motionless, as if under enchantment. They had
travelled through the night, after learning that Ben Râana and his family had gone from Djazerta,
with intervals of rest no longer than those allowed to the Legion on march. What they saw was
a giant tent as large as a circus tent in a village of America or Europe surrounded at a distance
by an army of little tents, black and dirty brown, so flat and low that they were like huge
bats with outstretched wings resting on the sand. The great tent of the chief with its high
roof, its vast spread of white, red, and amber striped cloth of close-woven camel's hair, rose
nobly above all the others, as a mosque rises above a crowd of prostrate worshippers at prayer.
For background, there was a clump of trees; for here, in the far southern desert, just outside
a waving welter of dunes, lay a region of dayas, where a wilderness of sand and tumbled stones
was brightened by green hollows half full of gurgling water.

Never before had Max seen a douar of importance, the desert dwelling of a desert chief. But
Manöel had been here before; and the camel-drivers, if they had not visited this douar, were
familiar with others. Max alone wondered at the great tent, whose many different compartments
sheltered the Agha, his whole family, and servants brought from Djazerta. As the caravan wound
nearer to watching eyes, another tent, not so big, but new and brilliant of colour, separated
itself from the vast bulk of the tente sultane.

"What is that?" Max asked Manöel, who rode beside him as interpreter, his dark-stained face
almost covered by the white folds of his woollen hood, the fire of his young eyes dimmed and
aged by a pair of cheap, silver-rimmed spectacles such as elderly Arabs wear.

"The Agha must have ordered that new tent to be set up for Tahar," Manöel answered gruffly;
and Max guessed from the sharpening of his tone and the brevity of his explanation that this
was the desert dwelling appointed for the bridegroom when he should take his bride.

In the boldness of their plan lay its hope of success; for though Ben Râana's suspicions were
on the alert he would not expect the banished lover to ride brazenly up to his tent, side by
side with a soldier messenger from Colonel DeLisle. There was an instant of suspense after
the corporal on leave and his Arab interpreter were received by the Agha in a reception-room
whose walls were red woollen draperies; but it was scarcely longer than a heartbeat. Ben Râana
had just come out from another room beyond, where, the curtains falling apart, several guests
in the high turbans of desert dignitaries could be seen seated on cushions and waited upon
by Soudanese men who were serving a meal.

The Agha scarcely glanced at Max's companion, the dark, spectacled Arab, but announcing in
French that no interpreter would be needed, he clapped his hands to summon a servant. One of
the black men lifted the red curtains higher and came in, received instructions as to the interpreter's
entertainment, and led him away. Max could hardly keep back a sigh of relief, for that had
been a bad moment. Now it was over, and with it his personal responsibility in his friend's
adventure. It had been agreed between them that Colonel DeLisle's messenger to Ben Râana should
have no further hand in the plot against the Agha. The rest was for Manöel alone, unless at
the end help should be necessary (and possible) for Ourïeda's rescue.

Max delivered a letter from DeLisle, and the Agha read it slowly through. Then he raised his
eyes and fixed them upon the Legionnaire as if wondering how far he might be in his colonel's
confidence.

"My friend has sent thee to escort his daughter to Sidi-bel-Abbés," Ben Râana said thoughtfully.
"Although he cannot be there himself, he believes the northern climate will be better for her
health at this time of year. Perhaps he is right; though my daughter, whom she has visited,
would have been delighted as a married woman to keep Mademoiselle DeLisle with her. However,
my friend's will is as Allah's will. It must be done. The day after to-morrow my daughter's
wedding feast will be over and she will go to her husband's tent. Remain here quietly till
then as my guest. Thy interpreter and the persons of thy caravan shall be well cared for, I
promise thee, by my household. When my daughter leaves me the daughter of my friend shall go
in peace at the same hour, in thy charge."

As he spoke his eyes remained on the messenger's face, watching for any change of expression,
and noting the flush that mounted through the soldier-tan.

"I am very sorry," said Max, "but Colonel DeLisle has given me only short leave. There was
just enough time to get me to Djazerta, from Touggourt, and to do the journey comfortably to
Sidi-bel-Abbés. He is a prompt man, as you know. He thinks and acts quickly. It didn't occur
to him that there need be any great delay. Already there has been a day lost returning from
Djazerta, where I heard that you were at your douar. A day and a half here, much as I should
like to be your guest, would mean overstaying my leave. That, you will see, is impossible."

"If it is impossible, I fear that thou must go from here with thy mission unfulfilled and without
Mademoiselle," replied the Agha, irritatingly calm. "For on my side it is impossible to let
her go before my daughter is--safely married."

He smiled as he spoke, but the pause and the emphasis on a certain word were deliberate. Max
was meant to understand it, in case DeLisle had confided in him. If not, it did not matter;
he would realize that he had had his ultimatum. Max did realize this, and, after a stunned
second, accepted the inevitable.

"I'll write to Sidi-bel-Abbés and explain. It's all I can do," was the thought which ran through
his head as he politely informed the Agha that he would, at any cost, wait for Mademoiselle
DeLisle.

"May I see her and deliver in person a letter I have from her father?" he asked.

But Ben Râana regretted that this might not be until all was ready for the start, which must
be made in the evening after the end of the marriage feast, unless Corporal St. George preferred
to wait till the morning after. The customs of a country must be respected by those sojourning
in that country; and the Arab ladies visiting the douar would be scandalized if a young girl
were allowed to speak with a strange man. There was nothing for it but submission, and Max
submitted, inwardly raging. He wrote explanations to the officer left in charge at Sidi-bel-Abbés,
the man to whom he must report; but no letter could reach DeLisle for many weeks.

He was entertained as the Agha's guest, being introduced to Tahar Ben Hadj and several caids
invited for the bridegroom's part of the festivities. There was much feasting, with music and
strange dances in Tahar's tent at night, and outside, fantasia for the douar in honour of the
wedding; sheep roasted whole, and "powder play." What was going on in the bride's half of her
father's great tent Max did not know, but he fancied that, above the beating of Tahar's tomtoms
and the wild singing of an imported Arab tenor, he could hear soft, distant wailings of the
ghesbah and the shrill "You--you--you!" of excited women. He wondered if Sanda knew that he
had come to take her away, and whether Manöel had contrived to send a message to the bride.

       *       *       *       *       *

That same night Khadra Bent Djellab, the woman who had travelled from Touggourt to return as
Sanda's attendant, came from the camp of the caravan asking if she might see her new mistress.
All was hurry and confusion in the women's part of the tente sultane, for a great feast was
going on which would last through most of the night. The excited servants told Khadra that
she must go, and come again to the tent in the morning; but just then the music for a dance
of love began, and Khadra begged so hard to stay that she was allowed to stand with the servants.
She had never seen Sanda DeLisle, but she had been told by the interpreter ("an order from
the master," said he, slipping a five-franc piece into her hand) that there would be no other
Roumia in the company. When Khadra caught sight of a golden-brown head, uncovered among the
heads wrapped in coloured silks or gauze, she cautiously edged nearer it, behind the double
rank of serving-women. All were absorbed in staring at the dancing-girl, a celebrity who had
been brought from an oasis town farther south. She had arrived at Djazerta and had travelled
to the douar when the family hastily flitted; but this was the night of her best dance. Nobody
remembered Khadra. When she was close behind Sanda she pretended to drop a big silk handkerchief,
such as Arab women love. Squatting down to pick it up, she contrived to thrust into a small
white hand hanging over an edge of the divan a ball of crumpled paper, and gently shut the
fingers over it. A few months, or even weeks, ago Sanda would have started at the touch and
looked round. But her long stay among Arab women, and the drama of the last eight days, had
schooled her to self-control. Instantly she realized that some new plot was on, and that she
was to be mixed up in it. She was deadly sick of plotting, but she loved Ourïeda, and had advised
her not to give up hope until the last minute. Perhaps something unexpected might come to pass.
With that soft, secret touch on her hand, and the feel of the paper in her palm, she knew that
her prophecy was being fulfilled.

Not far away sat the bride, raised high above the rest of the company on a kind of throne made
of carved wood, painted red and thickly gilded. It had served generations of brides in the
Agha's family, and had been brought out from Djazerta. Sanda glanced up from the divan of cushions
on which she and the other women guests reclined to see if Ourïeda was looking her way. But
the girl's great eyes were fixed and introspective.

When Sanda was sure that Lella Mabrouka and Taous, her spy, were both intent on the figure
posturing in the cleared space in the centre of the room, she cautiously unfolded the ball
of paper. Holding it on her lap, half hidden by the frame of her hands, she saw a fine, clear
black writing, a writing new to her. The words--French words--seemed to spring to her eyes:

   "Tell Ourïeda that I am here. She will know who. Perhaps you know
   also. There is only one thing to do. She must go, when the time
   comes, to Tahar's tent, but let her have no fear. At night, when her
   bridegroom should come to her, I will come instead and take her away.
   No one will know till the morning after, so we shall have a long
   start. For a while I will hide her in a house at Djazerta, where I
   have friends who will keep us safe until the search is over. No one
   will think of the town. All will believe that we have joined you and
   the caravan which your father has sent in charge of Corporal St.
   George. It is with him I have come, for I, too, am a Legionnaire. I
   hope to see St. George and explain my latest plans, but already he
   knows that I shall try and reach Spain or Italy. There I can make
   myself known without fear of capture and imprisonment. I can get
   engagements and money. If anything prevents my seeing St. George
   again, after I have started, show him this, or let him know what I
   have said.

   M.V."

Sanda's cheeks, which had been pale, brightened to carnation as she read; but the dancer held
all eyes. The girl crumpled up the letter and palmed it again, wondering how to show it to
Ourïeda, for they had not once been allowed a moment alone in each other's company since the
scene with la hennena. Not that Sanda was suspected of a hand in that affair, but she might
have a hand in another plot. The thing was, politely and kindly, to keep her a prisoner until
after Ourïeda had gone to her husband. Then Tahar could protect his property; and once an Arab
girl is married, she is seldom asked to elope, even by the bravest and most enterprising of
lovers. Some pretext must be thought of for the giving of Manöel's letter. But what--what?

The answer was not long in coming. After the dance all the women, with the exception of the
throned, bejewelled bride, sprang or scrambled up from their cushions to congratulate the celebrity.
Some of them testified their admiration by offering her rings, anklets, or little gilded bottles
of attar-of-rose which they had been holding in their handkerchiefs; and even Aunt Mabrouka's
sharp eyes did not see Sanda slip the ball of paper into Ourïeda's hand when passing the throne
to give a gold brooch to the favourite.

The bride herself was forgotten for a few minutes. Every one was caressing the dancer, patting
her much-ringed hands, or touching her bracelets and counting the almost countless gold coins
of her head ornaments and necklace. When Sanda dared glance across the crowd toward Ourïeda
she saw by the look in her eyes that the girl had read the letter.

CHAPTER XXII

THE HEART OF MAX

Max had resigned himself days ago to Juan Garcia's desertion from the Legion, since the girl
must be saved. But he was far from happy about his own position. The danger was that the day
when he was due to report himself at Sidi-bel-Abbés would come and he would be absent. His
letter of explanation ought to have arrived by that time, but it might be considered the trick
of a deserter. And even when he appeared, the news of Garcia's desertion from his caravan must
be told. The loss of a man would be a black mark against him, and he would probably forfeit
the stripe on which he had been congratulated by the colonel.

There was consolation in the thought of seeing Sanda again, and the certainty that she would
"stand up" for him; but he did not realize just how much that consolation would mean, until,
after the delay of a day and a half, word came that Mademoiselle DeLisle was ready to leave
her friend. The caravan had been assembled and waiting for the last hour, and Max knew that
the bride must have gone to her husband's tent. The music had been wilder than before, the
women's cries of joy louder and more triumphant; and while he had been examining the trappings
of Sanda's camel a procession had gone by carrying aloft several big boxes draped with brocade
and cloth-of-gold: the bride's luggage on its way to her new home. The feasting in the tente
sultane would continue all that night, as on other nights; but Ourïeda and Tahar would be left
quietly in the tent of the bridegroom, alone until after dawn, when Tahar would steal away
and the girl's women friends would rush in to wish her joy. That would be the hour, Max told
himself, when all would be found out, and the chase would begin. He had seen Manöel once since
the last details of the plot to rescue Ourïeda had been settled. He knew that Manöel had sent
a letter to her through Sanda, to whom it had been given; but he was not sure if Sanda had
been warned of the part she would have to play.

It was of this, more than the personality of Sanda herself, that he thought, as he waited,
expecting her to come out from the Agha's tent. But instead, she came from another direction,
and he did not recognize the slim figure in Arab dress until the well-remembered voice spoke
through the white veil:

"It is--my Soldier St. George!" Sanda cried in English, and a thrill ran through the young
man's blood. He forgot all about himself, his risks and his perplexities, and nothing seemed
to matter except that Sanda DeLisle had come back into his life--the girl whose long, soft
hair brushed his face in dreams, the girl who had saved his belief in womanhood and raised
up for him, in his black need, a new ideal.

A tall negro woman, whose forehead was a strip of ebony, whose eyes were beads of jet above
her snowy veil, accompanied Mademoiselle DeLisle, and the two had arrived from the bridegroom's
tent, where doubtless Sanda had been bidding the bride good-bye. Max realized that her attendant
would be shocked if he should offer to shake hands with the girl, so he only bowed, and answered
hastily in English that he was glad--glad to see her again--glad to have the honour of being
her guide. Khadra was brought forward, and Sanda spoke a few words to her in Arabic. Then the
girl was helped into her bassourah, luggage being brought out by eunuchs from the Agha's tent
and packed in to balance the other side. Only when the Roumia had retired behind the blue and
red and purple curtains did Ben Râana appear to wish his friend's daughter and messenger the
blessing of Allah on their journey. The caravan started, and it was not until after the douar,
with its green daya and background of trees, was dim in the distance that Sanda's curtains
parted. Max, riding the only horse in the party, saw the trembling of the rainbow-coloured
stuff, and glanced up, expectant. He found that his heart and all his pulses were hammering,
and as the girl's gold-brown head appeared, her veil thrown off, something seemed to leap in
his breast, something that gave a bound like that of a great fish on a hook. She looked down
and smiled at him rather sadly, yet more sweetly it seemed to Max than any other woman had
ever smiled. He had not realized or remembered how beautiful she was. Why, it was the most
exquisite face in the world! An angel's face, yet the face of a human girl. He adored it as
a man may adore an angel, and he loved it as a man loves a woman. A great and irresistible
tide of love rushed over him. What a fool, what a young, simple fool he had been to think that
he had ever loved Billie Brookton! That seemed hundreds of years ago, in another incarnation,
when he had been undeveloped, when his soul had been asleep. His soul was awake now! Something
had awakened it; life in the Legion, perhaps, for that had begun to show him his own capabilities;
or else love itself, which had been waiting to say: "I am here, now and forever."

Max was almost afraid to look at Sanda lest she should read through his eyes the words written
on his heart. But then he remembered in a flash her love for Stanton, which would blind her
to such feelings in other men. He felt sick for an instant in his hopelessness. Wherever he
turned, whatever he did, happiness seemed never to be for him.

"You don't know how glad I am to see you!" the girl explained. "I've thought of you so often
and--" she was going to add impulsively--"and dreamed about you, too!" but she remembered the
Arab saying which Ourïeda had told her: that when a woman dreams of a man, that is the man
she loves. It was a silly saying, and untrue; yet she kept back the words in a queer sort of
loyalty to Stanton--Stanton, who neither thought nor dreamed of her.

"I was so thankful when I heard my father had sent for me," she quickly went on. "I heard about
it only through that letter--you know the one I mean."

"Yes, I know," said Max. "I felt they didn't mean to tell you till the last minute, though
I could see no reason why. I--I was more than glad and proud to be the one to come."

He was not hoping unselfishly that Colonel DeLisle mightn't have told in his letter how the
great march and the expected fight had been sacrificed for her sake. He was not hoping this,
because in his sudden awakening to love he had forgotten the march. He was thinking of Sanda
and the wild happiness that would turn to pain in memory of being with her for days in the
desert. If, when he reached Sidi-bel-Abbés, he were blamed for the delay, and punished by losing
his stripe, or even by prison, it would be nothing, or almost a joy, because he would be suffering
for her.

"It was only to-day they gave me father's letter, which you brought," Sanda was saying. "It
was short, written in a hurry, in answer to one I sent begging him to take me away. Yet he
mentioned one thing: that he didn't order you, but only asked if you were willing, to come.
And he told me what you answered. I can never thank you, but I do appreciate it--all!"

"It was my selfishness," answered Max. "I said that the colonel was giving me the Cross of
the Legion of Honour. I felt that, then. I feel it a lot more now." There was more truth in
this than he wished her to guess.

"You are the realest friend!" cried Sanda. "Why, do you know, now I come to think of it, unless
I count my father, you are the only real friend I have in the world?"

"You forget Mr. Stanton!" Max reminded her, without intending to be cruel.

She blushed, and Max hated himself as if he had brought the colour to her face with a blow.

"No," she answered quietly. "I never forget him. But you understand, because I told you everything,
that in my heart I can't call him my friend. He doesn't care enough, and I--care too much."

"Forgive me!" Max begged. "All the same I know he must care. He wouldn't be human not to."

"He isn't human! He's superhuman!" She laughed, to cover her pain of humiliation. "I suppose--long
ago--he has started out on his wonderful mission. I keep thinking of him travelling on and
on through the desert, and I pray he may be safe, and succeed in finding the Lost Oasis he
believes in. He told me in Algiers that to find it would crown his life."

"He hadn't started when I left Touggourt," Max said rather dryly.

"What--he was still there? Then my father must have seen him. How strange! He didn't refer
to him at all."

"You mentioned that the colonel wrote in a hurry." Max hinted at this explanation to comfort
her, but he guessed why DeLisle had not been in a mood to speak of Stanton to his daughter.
"There is a reason," he had said, "why I don't want to ask Stanton to put off starting and
go to Djazerta." And Max, having seen the dancer, Ahmara, had known without telling what the
reason was.

"Do you think Richard may be there when we get to Touggourt?" she asked, shamefaced, yet not
able to resist putting the question.

"I think it's very likely." Max tried to keep his tone at reassuring level, though he hoped
devoutly that Stanton might be gone. He could not bear to think of his seeing Sanda again after
the Ahmara episode. With a man of Stanton's strange, erratic nature and wild impulses, who
could be sure whether--but Max would not let the thought finish in his mind.

Sanda suddenly dropped the subject. Whether this was because she saw that Max disliked it,
or whether she had no more to say, he could not guess.

"Tell me about yourself, now," she said. "My father has told me some things in letters, but
I long to know from you if I made a mistake in wanting you to try the Legion."

"You made no mistake. It's one of the things I have to thank you for--one of several very great
things," said Max.

"What other things? I can't think of one unless you thank me for having a splendid father."

"That's one thing."

"Are there more?"

"Yes."

"Tell me, please. Anyway, the greatest, or I shan't believe in any."

Max was silent for an instant. Then he said in a voice so low she could hardly hear it, bending
down from her bassourah, "For giving me back my faith in women."

"I? But you hadn't lost it."

"I was in danger of losing it, with most of my mental and moral baggage. Through you--I've
kept the lot."

"That's the most beautiful thing ever said to me. And it does me so much good after all I've
gone through and been blamed for!"

"Who's dared to blame you for anything?"

"I asked you to tell me about yourself. When you have done that I'll tell you things that have
happened here, things concerning Manöel Valdez and Ourïeda--poor darling Ourïeda, whom I ought
to be thinking of every instant! And so I am, only I can't help being happy to get away--with you."

There was sweet pain in hearing those last words, and the emphasis the caressing girl-voice
gave. Max hurried through a vague list of such events as seemed fit for Sanda's ears. They
were not many, since he did not count his fights among the mentionable ones. He told her, with
more detail, about his acquaintance with Valdez, whose face she had remarked at the railway
station at Sidi-bel-Abbés; and then claimed her promise. She must tell him, if she would (with
a sudden drop from the happy way of Max Doran with women to the humbler way of Max St. George,
Legionnaire), what she had gone through in the Agha's house.

She began by asking a question. "Didn't you think it queer that no one but a servant came out
to see me off?"

"I did a little, but I put it down to Arab manners."

"It was because I left in disgrace. Oh! no one was ever rude! They were polite always. It was
like being stuffed with too much honey. And I don't mean Ourïeda, of course. Ourïeda's a darling.
I'd do anything for her. I've proved that! Did my father give you any idea why he had to send
for me in a hurry, though he has to leave me alone--or rather in charge of people I don't know--at
Bel-Abbés? He must have told you something, as he asked such a sacrifice."

"He needn't have told me anything at all. But he took me into his confidence--it was like him--far
enough to say the Agha was offended somehow, and you were anxious to leave."

"I should think the Agha was offended! I tried to help Ourïeda to escape, even though she hadn't
heard from her Manöel. She had lots of jewels, and thought she might get to France. We failed
in our attempt, and after that we were never alone together, though they--her father and aunt--didn't
want me to go till she was married. The idea at first was--when I arrived, I mean--that my
visit shouldn't end till father came back. They meant me to stop on with Ourïeda, as she and
her husband would live at her old home at Djazerta. The last plot wasn't mine. It was got up
by an old nurse they'd sent away, and a weird woman, a kind of Arab beauty-doctor. But all
the same they were afraid of me. They longed to have me gone, yet, for their own superstitious,
secretive reasons, they were afraid to let me go. As I had to stay so long, I'd rather have
stopped a little longer, so as to know what becomes of Ourïeda. They made me say good-bye to
her in Tahar's tent, where she is waiting, all dressed up like a doll, till the hour at night
when her husband chooses to come to her. Instead, we hope---- But I can hardly bear it, not
to know! Shall we ever know?"

"It may be a long time before Manöel can send us any word," said Max. "But we shall hear, I
suppose, about Tahar."

"Oh, Manöel doesn't mean to kill him, does he? Ourïeda said he wouldn't do that! But Arab women
are so strange, so different from us, I don't believe she'd care much if he did; except that
if he were a murderer they could seize him, even in another country--Spain, where they both
hope to go when they can get out of Djazerta."

"Manöel wouldn't care much, either, except for that same reason," Max admitted. "But he does
care for that. He intends only to surprise and stun Tahar. He doesn't want his life with Ourïeda
spoiled, for he'll be a public character, you know, if he succeeds in escaping from Algeria.
He'll be a great singer. He can take back his own name."

"Why not France?" Sanda wanted to know. "Surely France would be better for a singer than Spain,
or even Italy?"

"Perhaps, but, you see, he has had to desert from the Legion. In France he could be brought
back to Algeria to the penal battalion."

"Oh, I hadn't thought of that!"

"It was--a hateful necessity, his deserting."

Sanda looked at him anxiously. "Will it make trouble for you?"

"Possibly. I hoped it needn't happen. But it had to. There was no other way in the end."

"How he must love Ourïeda, to risk all that for her sake!"

"He risked a great deal more."

"What--but, oh, yes, you told me! The way he came into the Legion, and all that. I wonder--I
wonder if there are many men in the world who would do as much for a woman?"

"I think so," said Max quietly. "You don't count the cost very much when you are in love."

He was to remember that speech before many days.

"They're wonderful, men like that!" Sanda murmured. "And there's more risk to come, for Ourïeda
and himself. A little for us, too, isn't there?"

"Not for you, please God! And very little for any of us. But I see you know what Manöel expects
to happen."

"Oh, yes, that they'll run after us, thinking that he has followed with Ourïeda, to join our
caravan. I do hope the Agha will send his men after us, for that will make us sure those two
have got away. If we hear sounds of pursuit we'll hurry on quickly. Then the chase will have
farther to go back, and Manöel and Ourïeda will gain time. The more ground we can cover before
we're come up with by the Agha's camels, who'll be superior to ours, the better it will be,
won't it?"

"Yes, for if the Agha lets Djazerta alone, Manöel may contrive to slip out of the town sooner
than he dared hope, well disguised, in a caravan of strangers not of Ben Râana's tribe. In
that case the Agha of Djazerta would have no right to search among the women. And Manöel's
splendid at disguise. His actor's training has taught him that."

"I feel now that he will get Ourïeda out of the country. They've suffered too much and dared
too much to fail in the end."

"I hope so; I think so," Max answered. But he knew that in real life stories did sometimes
end badly. His own, for instance. He could see no happy ending for that.

They pushed on as fast as the animals could go when a long march and not a mere spurt of speed
was before them. Through the mysterious sapphire darkness of the desert night the padding feet
of the camels strode noiselessly over the hard sand. Sanda asked Max to offer extra pay to
the men if they would put up with an abbreviated rest. Only three hours they paused to sleep;
and then, in the dusk before dawn, when all living things are as shadows, the camels were wakened
to snarl with rage while their burdens were ruthlessly strapped on again. As Max gave Sanda
a cup of hot coffee (which he had made for her, as Legionnaires make it, strong and black)
she said, shivering a little, "Do you think they'll have found Tahar yet if--if----"

"Hardly yet! Not till daylight," answered Max. "Are you cold? These desert nights can be bitter,
even in summer. Won't you let me put something more around you?"

"No, thanks. It's only excitement that makes me shiver. I'm thinking of Ourïeda and Manöel.
I've been thinking of them instead of sleeping. But I'm not tired. I feel all keyed up; as
if something wonderful were going to happen to me, too."

Something wonderful was happening to Max. But she had no idea of that. She would never know,
he thought.

All day they journeyed on, save for a short halt at noon, and Max was happy. He tried to recall
and quote to himself a verse of Tennyson's "Maud"--"Let come what come may; What matter if
I go mad, I shall have had my day!" He was having his day--just that one day more, because
on the next they would come to Touggourt, and if Stanton were there he would spoil everything.

At night they went on till late, as before; but the camel-men said that the animals must have
a longer rest. Luckily it did not matter now if they were caught. If Manöel and Ourïeda had
escaped they had had a long start. A little after midnight the vast silence of the sand-ocean
was broken with cries and shoutings of men. The Arabs, not knowing of the expected raid, stumbled
up from their beds of bagging and ran to protect the camels; but Max, who had not undressed,
walked out from the little camp to meet a cavalcade of men.

Ben Râana himself rode in advance, mounted on a swift-running camel. In the blue gloom where
the stars were night lights Max recognized the long black beard of the Agha flowing over his
white cloak. None rode near him. Tahar was not there. Max took that as a good sign.

"Who are you?" demanded the uniformed Legionnaire in his halting Arabic. "In the name of France,
I demand your business."

Ben Râana, recognizing him also, impatiently answered in French, "And I demand my daughter!"

"Your daughter? Ah, I see! It is the Agha of Djazerta. But what can we know of your daughter?
We left her being married."

"I think thou knowest well," Ben Râana cut him short furiously, "that her marriage was not
consummated. I cherished a viper in my bosom when I entertained in my house the child of George
DeLisle. She has deceived me, and helped my daughter to deceive."

"I cannot hear Mademoiselle DeLisle spoken of in that way, even by my colonel's friend, sir,"
said Max. "If your daughter has run away----"

"If! Thou knowest well that she has run away with her lover, who has half murdered the man
who should by now be her husband. Thou knowest and Mademoiselle knows!"

"You are mistaken," broke in Max, not troubling to hide his anger. "If you think your daughter----"

"I think she is here! But thou canst not protect her from me. Try, and thou and every man with
thee shall perish."

"Search our camp," said Max.

As he spoke, Sanda appeared at the door of the mean little tent hired for her at Touggourt.
From the shelter of the bassourah, close by on the sand, Khadra peeped out. The search was
made quickly and almost without words. If the power of France had not been behind the soldier
and the girl whom Ben Râana now hated, he would have reverted--"enlightened" man as he was--to
primitive methods. He would have killed the pair with his own hand, while the men of his goum
put the Arabs to death, and all could have been buried under the sand save the camels, which
would have been led back to Djazerta. But France was mighty and far reaching, and he and his
tribe would have to pay too high for such indulgence.

When he was sure that Ourïeda and Manöel Valdez were not concealed in the camp, with cold apologies
and farewells he turned with his men and rode off toward the south--a band of shadows in the
night. The visit had been like a dream, the desert dream that Sanda had had of Max, Max of
Sanda. Yet dimly it seemed to both that these dreams had meant more than this. The girl let
her "Soldier St. George" warm her small, icy hands, and comfort her with soothing words.

"You were not treacherous," he said. "You did exactly right. You deserve happiness for helping
to make that girl happy. And you'll have it! You must! You shall! I couldn't stand your not
being happy."

"Already it's to-day," she half whispered, "to-day that we come to Touggourt. The greatest
thing in my father's life happened there. I thought of that when I passed through before, and
wondered what would happen to me. Nothing happened. But--what about to-day?"

"May it be something very good," Max said steadily. But his heart was heavy, as in his hands
her own grew warm.

CHAPTER XXIII

"WHERE THE STRANGE ROADS GO DOWN"

Shadows of evening flowed over the desert like blue water out of whose depths rose the golden
crowns of the dunes. The caravan had still some miles of sand billows between them and Touggourt,
when suddenly a faint thrill of sound, which might have been the waking dream of a tired brain,
or a trick of wind, a sound scarcely louder than heart-throbs, grew definite and distinct:
the distant beating of African drums, the shriek of räitas, and the sighing of ghesbahs. The
Arabs on their camels came crowding round Max, who led the caravan, riding beside Sanda's mehari.

"Sidi," said their leader, "this music is not of earth, for Touggourt is too distant for us
to hear aught from there. It is the devil. It comes from under the dunes. Such music we have
heard in the haunted desert where the great caravan was buried beneath the sands, but here
it is the first time, and it is a warning of evil. Something terrible is about to happen. What
shall we do--stop here and pray, though the sunset prayer is past, or go on?"

"Go on, of course," ordered Max. "As for the music, it must be that the wind brings it from
Touggourt."

"It is not possible, Sidi," the camel-man, husband of Khadra, persisted. "Besides, there is
no great feastday at this time, not even a wedding or a circumcision, or we should have heard
before we started away that it was to be. Such playing, if from the hands of man, would mean
some great event."

Even as he spoke the music grew louder and wilder. Max hurried the caravan on as fast as it
could go among the sand billows, fearing that the Arabs' superstition might cause a stampede.
With every stride of the camels' long, four-jointed legs, the music swelled; and at the crest
of a higher dune than any they had climbed, Sanda, leaning out of her bassourah, gave a cry.

"A caravan--oh! but a huge caravan like an army," she exclaimed, "or like a troop of ghosts.
What if--what if it should be Sir Knight just starting away?"

"I think it is he," Max answered heavily. "I think it must be Stanton getting off."

"We shall meet him. I can wish him good-bye and Godspeed! Soldier" (this was the name she had
given Max), "it does seem as if heaven must have timed our coming and his going for this moment."

"Or the devil," Max amended bitterly in his heart. But aloud he said nothing. He knew that
if he had spoken Sanda would not have heard him then.

"Let's hurry on," she begged, "and meet him--and surprise him. He can't be angry. He must be
glad for father's sake, if not for mine. Oh! come, Soldier, come, or I will go alone!"

The man whose duty it was to guide her camel had dropped behind, as had often happened before
at her wish and Max's order, for the mehari was a well-trained and gentle beast, knowing by
instinct the right thing to do. Now Sanda leaned far out and touched him on the neck. Squatting
in the way of camels brought up among dunes, he slid down the side of a big golden billow,
sending up a spray of sand as he descended. Below lay a valley, where the blue dusk poured
in its tide; and marching through the azure flood a train of dark forms advanced rhythmically,
as if moving to the music which they had outstripped. It was a long procession of men and camels
bearing heavy loads, so long that the end of it had not yet come into sight behind the next
sand billow; but at its head a man rode on a horse, alone, with no one at his side. Already
it was too dark to see his face, but Max knew who it was. He felt the man's identity with an
instinct as unerring as Sanda's.

Also he longed to hasten after her and catch up with the running camel, as he could easily
do, for his horse, though more delicate and not as enduring, could go faster. But, though Sanda
had cried "Come!" he held back. She had hardly known what she said. She did not want him to
be with her when she met Stanton; and if he--Max--wished to be there, it was a morbid wish.
Whether Stanton were kind or unkind to the girl, he, the outsider, would suffer more than he
need let himself suffer, since he was not needed and would only be in the way. Riding slowly
and keeping back the men of his own little caravan, who wished to dash forward now their superstitious
fears were put to flight, Max saw Stanton rein up his horse as the mehari, bearing a woman's
bassourah, loped toward him; saw him stop in surprise, and then, no doubt recognizing the face
framed by the curtains, jump off his horse and stride forward through the silky mesh of sand
holding out his arms. The next instant he had the girl in them, was lifting her down without
waiting for the camel to kneel, for she had sprung to him as if from the crest of a breaking
wave; and Max bit back an oath as he had to see Ahmara's lover crush Sanda DeLisle against
his breast.

It was only for an instant, perhaps, but for Max it was a red-hot eternity. He forgot his resolution
to efface himself, and whipped his horse forward. By the time he had reached the two figures
in the sand, however, the big, square-shouldered man in khaki and the slim girl in white had
a little space between them. Stanton had released Sanda from his arms and set her on her feet;
but he held both the little white hands in his brown ones; and now that Max was near he could
see a look on the square sunburnt face which might have won any woman, even if she had not
been his in heart already. Max himself was thrilled by it. He realized as he had realized in
Algiers, but a thousand times more keenly, the vital, compelling magnetism of the man.

No need for Sanda to wonder whether "Sir Knight" would be glad to see her! He was glad, brutally
glad it seemed to Max, as the lion might be glad after long, lonely ways to chance upon his
young and willing mate.

"Curse him! How dare he look at her like that, after Ahmara!" thought Max. His blood sang in
his ears like the wicked voice of the räita following the caravan. All that was in him of primitive
man yearned to dash between the two and snatch Sanda from Stanton. But the soldier in him,
which discipline and modern conventions had made, held him back. Sanda was Mademoiselle DeLisle,
the daughter of his colonel. He who had been Max Doran was now nobody save Maxime St. George,
a little corporal in the Foreign Legion, with hardly enough money left to buy cigarettes. Ahmara
had been an episode. Now the episode was over, and in all probability Sanda, like most women,
would have forgiven it if she knew. She was happy in Stanton's overmastering look. She did
not feel it an insult, or dream that the devouring flame in the blue eyes was only a spurt
of new fire in the ashes of a burnt-out passion.

She must be mistaking it for love, and her heart must be shaken to ecstasy by the surprise
and joy of the miracle. Max knew that if he rudely rode up to them in this, Sanda's great moment,
nothing he could say or do would really part them, even if he were cad enough to speak of Ahmara,
the dancer. Sanda would not believe, or else she would not care; and always, for the rest of
her life, she would hate him. He pulled up his horse as he thought, and sat as though he were
in chains. He was, according to his reckoning, out of earshot, but Stanton's deep baritone
had the carrying power of a 'cello. Max heard it say in a tone to reach a woman's heart: "Child!
You come to me like a white dove. God bless you! I needed you. I don't know whether I can let
you go."

Slowly Max turned his horse's head, and still more slowly rode back to the caravan which he
had halted fifty feet away. For an instant he hoped against hope that Sanda would hear the
sound of his going, that she would look after him and call. But deep down in himself he knew
that no girl in her place, feeling as she felt, would have heard a cannon-shot. He explained
to the astonished men that this was the great explorer, the Sidi who found new countries where
no other white men had ever been, and the young Roumia lady had known him ever since she was
a child. The Sidi was starting out on a dangerous expedition, and it was well that chance had
brought them together, for now the daughter of the explorer's oldest friend could bid him good-bye.
They must wait until the farewell had been given, then they would go on again.

The camel-men assented politely, without comment. But Max heard Khadra say to her husband,
"It is the Sidi who loved Ahmara. One would think he had forgotten her now. Or is it that he
tries this way to forget?"

Max wished angrily that his ears were less quick, and that he had not such a useless facility
for picking up words out of every patois.

Half an hour passed, and the blue shadows deepened to purple. It was night, and Touggourt miles
away. Still the two were talking, and the darkness had closed around them like the curtains
of a tent. They had halted not only the little caravan returning from the south, but the great
caravan starting for the far southeast. Nothing was of importance to Stanton and Sanda except
each other and themselves. Max hated Stanton, yet was fascinated by the thought of him: virile,
magnetic, compelling; a man among men; greater than his fellows, as the great stars above,
flaming into life, were brighter than their dim brothers.

The music, which still throbbed and screamed its notes of passion in the desert, seemed to
be beating in Max's brain. A horrible irritation possessed him like a devil. He could have
yelled as a man might yell in the extremity of physical torture. If only that music would stop!

When he had almost reached the limit of endurance there came a soft padding of feet in the
sand and a murmur of voices. Then he saw Stanton walking toward him with the girl. Sanda called
to him timidly, yet with a quiver of excitement in her voice:

"Monsieur St. George, mon ami!"

Not "Soldier" now! That phase was over. Max got off his horse and walked to meet the pair.

"You know each other," Sanda said. "I introduced you last March in Algiers. And perhaps you
met again here in Touggourt with my father, not many days ago. I've told Mr. Stanton all about
you now, mon ami; he knows how good you have been. He knows how I--confided things to you I
never told to anybody else. Do you remember, Monsieur St. George, my saying how, when I was
small, I used to long to run away dressed like a boy, and go on a desert journey with Richard
Stanton? Well, my wish has come true! Not about the boy's clothes, but--I am going with him!
He has asked me to be his wife, and I have said 'yes.'"

CHAPTER XXIV

THE MAD MUSIC

Max was struck dumb by the shock. He had expected nothing so devastating as this. What to do
he knew not, yet something he must do. If he had not loved the girl, it would have been easier.
There would have been no fear then that he might think of himself and not of her. Yet she had
been put under his charge by Colonel DeLisle. He was responsible for her welfare and her safety.
Ought he to constitute himself her guardian and stand between her and this man? On the other
hand, could he attempt playing out a farce of guardianship--he, almost a stranger, and a boy
compared to Stanton, who had been, according to Sanda, informally her guardian when she was
a little girl? Max stammered a few words, not knowing what he said, or whether he were speaking
sense, but Stanton paid him the compliment of treating him like a reasonable man. Suddenly
Max became conscious that the explorer was deliberately focussing upon him all the intense
magnetism which had won adherents to the wildest schemes.

"I understand exactly what you are thinking about me," Stanton said. "You must feel I am mad
or a brute to want this child to go with me across the desert, to share the fate all Europe
is prophesying."

"It's glory to share it," broke in Sanda, in a voice like a harp. "Do I care what happens to
me if I can be with you?"

Stanton laughed a delightful laugh.

"She is a child--an infatuated child! But shouldn't I be more--or less--than a man, if I could
let such a stroke of luck pass by me? You see, she wants to go."

"He knows I love you, and have loved you all my life," said Sanda. "I told him in Algiers when
I was so miserable, thinking that I should never see you again, and that you didn't care."

"Of course I cared," Stanton contradicted her warmly; yet there was a difference in his tone.
To Max's ears, it did not ring true. "Seeing a grown-up Sanda, when I'd always kept in my mind's
eye a little girl, bowled me over. I made excuses to get away in a hurry, didn't I? It was
the bravest thing I ever did. I knew I wasn't a marble statue. But it was another thing keeping
my head in broad daylight on the terrace of a hotel, with a lot of dressed-up creatures coming
and going, from what it is here in the desert at night, with that mad music playing me away
into the unknown, and a girl like Sanda flashing down like a falling star."

"The star fell into your arms, and you saved it from extinction," she finished for him, laughing
a little gurgling laugh of ecstasy.

"I caught it on its way somewhere else! But how can I let it go when it wants to shine for
me? How can I be expected to let it go? I ask you that, St. George!"

Racked with an anguish of jealousy, Max felt, nevertheless, a queer stirring of sympathy for
the man; and struggling against it, he knew Stanton's conquering fascination. He knew, also,
that nothing he could do or say would prevent Sanda from going with her hero. However, he stammered
a protest.

"But--but I don't see what's to be done," he said, "Mademoiselle DeLisle's father, my colonel,
ordered me to take her to Sidi-bel-Abbés."

"Not ordered; asked!" the girl cut in with an unfairness that hurt.

"All the blame is mine," Stanton assured him with a warm friendliness of manner. "My shoulders
are broad enough to bear it. And you know, St. George, your colonel and I are old friends.
If he were here he'd give his consent, I think, after he'd got over his first surprise. I believe
as his proxy you'll do the same, when you've taken a little time to reflect."

"Why, of course he will!" cried Sanda, sweet and repentant. "He knows that this is my one chance
of happiness in life. Everything looked so gray in the future. I was going to Sidi-bel-Abbés
to be with strangers till my father came. And even at best, though he loves me, I am a burden
and a worry to him. Then, suddenly, comes this glorious joy! My Knight, my one Sir Knight,
wants me, and cares! If I knew I were going straight to death, I'd go just the same, and just
as joyously."

"We both realized what was in our hearts, and what must happen, when she looked out between
her curtains like the Blessed Damozel, and I took her out of her bassourah and held her in
my arms. That settled our fate," said Stanton, attractively boyish and eager in the warmth
of his passion. It was genuine passion. There was no doubting that, but lit in an instant,
like a burnt wick still warm from a flame blown out. How long would it last? How clear and
true a light would it give? Max did not know how much of his doubt of Stanton was jealousy,
how much regard for Sanda's happiness.

"To think this should come to me at Touggourt, where my father's happiness came to him!" Sanda
murmured rapturously, as Max stood silent. "It is Fate, indeed!"

"Listen to the music of Africa," said Stanton. "The players followed us for 'luck.' What luck
they've brought! Child, I was feeling lonely and sad. I almost had a presentiment that my luck
was out. What a fool! All the strength and courage I've ever had you've given back to me with
yourself!"

"I could die of happiness to hear you say that!" Sanda answered. "You see how it is, my friend,
my dear, kind soldier? God has timed my coming here to give me this wonderful gift! You wouldn't
rob me of it if you could, would you?"

"Not if it's for your happiness," Max heard something that was only half himself answer. "But"--and
he turned on Stanton--"how do you propose to marry her--here?"

The other hesitated for an instant, then replied briskly, as if he had calculated everything
in detail. This was characteristic of him, to map out a plan of campaign as he went along,
as fast as he drew breath for the rushing words. Often he had made his greatest impressions,
his greatest successes, in this wild way.

"Why, you will pitch your camp here for the night, instead of marching on to Touggourt," he
said. "I camp here, too. My expedition is delayed for one day more, but what does that matter
after a hundred delays? Heavens! I've had to wait for tents a beast of a Jew contracted to
give me and didn't. I've waited to test water-skins. I've waited for new camel-men when old
ones failed me. Haven't I a right to wait a few hours for a companion--a wife? The first thing
in the morning we'll have the priest out from Touggourt. Sanda's Catholic. He'll marry us and
we'll start on together."

"Couldn't we," the girl rather timidly ventured the suggestion, "couldn't we go to Touggourt?
There must be a church there if there's a priest, and I--I'd like to be married in a church."

"My darling child! The priest shall consecrate a tent, or a bit of the desert," Stanton answered
with decision, which, she must have realized, would be useless to combat. "He'll do it all
right! Marriage ceremonies are performed by Catholic priests in houses, you know, if the man
or the woman is ill; deathbed marriages, and--but don't let us talk of such things! I know
I can make him do this when I show him how impossible it would be for us to go back to Touggourt.
Why, the men I've got together, mostly blacks, would take it for a bad omen if I left the escort
stranded here in the desert the first day out! Half of them would bolt. I'd have the whole
work to do over again. You see that, don't you?"

Sanda did see; and even Max admitted to himself that the excuse was plausible. Yet he suspected
another reason behind the one alleged. Stanton was afraid of things Sanda might hear in Touggourt;
perhaps he feared some more active peril.

"I thought," Max dared to argue, "that it took days arranging the legal part of a marriage?
You're an Englishman, Mr. Stanton, and Colonel DeLisle's daughter's a French subject, though
she is half British. You may find difficulties."

"Damn difficulties!" exclaimed Stanton, all his savage impatience of opposition breaking out
at last. "Don't you say so, Sanda? When a man and woman need each other's companionship in
lonely places outside the world, is the world's red tape going to make a barrier between them?
My God, no! Sanda, if your church will give you to me, and send us into the desert with its
blessing, is it, or is it not, enough for you? If not, you're not the girl I want. You're not
my woman."

"If you love me, I am 'your woman,'" said Sanda.

"You hear her?" Stanton asked. "If it's enough for her, I suppose it's enough for you, St. George?"

Through the blue dusk two blue eyes stared into Max's face. They put a question without words.
"Have you any reason of your own for wanting to keep her from me?"

"Will it be enough for Colonel DeLisle?" Max persisted.

"I promised to shoulder all responsibility with him," repeated Stanton.

"And father would be the last man in the world to spoil two lives for a convention," Sanda
added. "Do you remember his love story that I told you?"

Did Max remember? It was not a story to forget, that tragic tale of love and death in the desert.
Must the story of the daughter be tragic, too? A great fear for the girl was in his heart.
He believed that he could think of her alone, now, apart from selfishness. Realizing her worship
of Stanton, had her fate lain in his hands he would have placed it in those of the other man
could he have been half sure they would be tender. But her fate was in her own keeping. He
could do no more than beg, for DeLisle's sake, that they would wait for the wedding until Stanton
came back from his expedition. Even as he spoke, it seemed strange and almost absurd that he
should be urging legal formalities upon any one, especially a man like Stanton, almost old
enough to be his father. What, after all, did law matter in the desert if two people loved
each other? And as Stanton said--patient and pleasant again after his outburst--they could
have all the legal business, to make things straight in the silly eyes of the silly world,
when they won through to Egypt, under English law.

The matter settled itself exactly as it would have settled itself had Max stormed protests
for an hour. Sanda was to be married by the Catholic priest from Touggourt, as early in the
morning as he could be fetched. The great caravan and the little caravan halted for the night.
Stanton harangued his escort in their own various dialects, for there was no obscure lingo
of Africa which he did not know, and this knowledge gave him much of his power over the black
or brown men. The news he told, explaining the delay, was received with wild shouts of amused
approval. Stanton was allowing some of his head men to travel with their wives, it being their
concern, not his, if the women died and rotted in the desert. It was his concern only to be
popular as a leader on this expedition for which it had been hard to get recruits. It was fair
that he, too, should have a wife if he wanted one, and the men cared as little what became
of the white girl they had not seen as Stanton cared about the fate of their strapping females.

The mad music of the tomtoms and räitas played as Max, with his own hands, set up Sanda's little
tent. "For the last time," he said to himself. "To-morrow night her tent will be Stanton's."

He felt physically sick as he thought of leaving her in the desert with that man, whom they
called mad, and going on alone to report at Sidi-bel-Abbés, days after his leave had expired.
Now that Sanda was staying behind, his best excuse was taken from him. He could hear himself
making futile-sounding explanations, but keeping Mademoiselle DeLisle's name in the background.
None save a man present at the scene he had gone through could possibly pardon him for abandoning
his charge. After all, however, what did it matter? He did not care what became of him, even
if his punishment were to be years in the African penal battalion, the awful Bat d'Aff, a sentence
of death in life. "Perhaps I deserve it," he said. "I don't know!" All he did know was that
he would give his life for Sanda. Yet it seemed that he could do nothing.

When all was quiet he went to his tent and threw himself down just inside the entrance with
the flap up. Lying thus, he could see Sanda's tent not far away, dim in the starlit night.
He could not see her, nor did he wish to. But he knew she was sitting in the doorway with Stanton
at her feet. Max did not mean to spy; but he was afraid for her, of Stanton, while that music
played. At last he heard her lover in going call out "good night," then it was no longer necessary
to play sentinel, but though Sanda had slipped inside her tent, perhaps to dream of to-morrow,
it seemed to Max that there were no drugs in the world strong enough to give him sleep. He
supposed, vaguely, that if a priest consented to marry the girl to Stanton, after the wedding
and the start of the explorer's caravan, he, Max, would board the first train he could catch
on the new railway, and go to "take his medicine" at Sidi-bel-Abbés.

Before dawn, when Stanton came to tell Sanda that he was off for Touggourt to fetch the priest,
no alternative had yet presented itself to Max's mind, and he was still indifferent to his
own future. But when Stanton had been gone for half an hour, and a faint primrose coloured
flame had begun to quiver along the billowy horizon in the east, he heard a soft voice call
his name, almost in a whisper.

"Soldier St. George!" it said.

Max sprang up, fully dressed as he was, and went out of his tent. Sanda was standing near,
a vague shape of glimmering white.

CHAPTER XXV

CORPORAL ST. GEORGE, DESERTER

"Is anything the matter?" he asked. A wild hope was in his heart that she might wish to tell
him she had changed her mind. The joy of that hope snatched his breath away. But her first
words put it to flight.

"No, nothing is the matter, except that I've been thinking about you. I could hardly wait to
ask you some things. But I had to wait till morning. It is morning now that Richard is up and
has gone, even though it isn't quite light. And it's better to talk before he comes back. There'll
be--so much happening then---- You're all dressed! You didn't go to bed."

"No, I didn't want to sleep," said Max.

"I haven't slept, either. I didn't try to sleep! I'm so happy for myself, but I'm not all happy.
I'm anxious about you. I see that I've been horribly, hatefully selfish--a beast!"

"Don't! I won't hear you say such things."

"You mustn't try and put me off. Will you promise by--by your love for my father--and your
friendship for me, to answer truly the questions I ask?"

"All I can answer."

"If you don't answer, I shall know what your silence means. Mon ami, you made a great sacrifice
for me. You gave up your march to take me safely to Bel-Abbés. You had only eight days' leave
to do it in. I know, because my father said so in his letter. But I, thinking always of myself,
gave no thought to that. You lost time coming back from Djazerta to the douar. Now I've kept
you another night. Is there a train to-morrow going out of Touggourt?"

"I think so," said Max warily, beginning to guess the trend of her questions.

"What time does it start?"

"I don't know precisely."

"In the morning or at night?"

"I really can't tell."

"You mean you won't. But that does tell me, all the same. It goes in the morning. Soldier,
I've made you late. I see now you've been very anxious all the time about overstaying your
leave, but you wouldn't speak because it was for my sake."

"I've written to the officer in command at Sidi-bel-Abbés, explaining. It will be all right."

"It won't! You're keeping the truth from me. I see by your face. You've overstayed your leave
already. I calculated it out last night. Even as it is, you are a day late."

"What of it? There's nothing to worry about."

"Do you suppose I can be a soldier's daughter and not have learned anything about army life?
Soldier, much as I'd want you to stand by me if it could be right for you, it isn't right,
and you must go! Go now, and be in time for that train this morning. One day late won't be
so bad. But there won't be another train till Monday. By diligence, it's two days to Biskra.
That means--oh! go, my friend! Go, and forgive me! Let us say good-bye now!"

"Not for the world," Max answered. "Not if they'd have me shot at Bel-Abbés, instead of putting
me into cellule for a few days at worst. Nothing would induce me to leave you until"--he choked
a little on the words--"until you're married."

"Cellule" she echoed. "You, in cellule! And your corporal's stripe? You'll lose it!"

"What if I do? I value it more for--for something Colonel DeLisle said than for itself."

"I know you were an officer in your American army at home. To be a corporal must seem laughable
to you. And yet, the stripe is more than just a mere stripe. It's an emblem."

"I didn't mean you to think that I don't value it! I do! But I value other things more."

Day was quickening to life; Sanda's wedding day. In the wan light that bleached the desert
they looked at each other, their faces pale. Max could not take his eyes from hers. She held
them, and he felt her drawing from them the truth his lips refused to speak.

"You are like a man going to his death," she sobbed. "Oh, what have I done? It will be something
worse, a thousand times worse, than cellule. Mon Dieu! I know what they do to men of the Legion
when they've deserted--even if they come back. I implore you to go away now. Do you want me
to beg you on my knees?"

"For God's sake, Mademoiselle DeLisle!"

"Then will you go?"

"No! I told you nothing could make me leave you till--after it's over. What would be the use
anyhow, even if I would go? If they're going to call me a deserter, I'm that already."

