Travellers and strangers in France, in a long journey perhaps, have no connection with any
people, but such who have a design upon their purse. At every Auberge some officious coxcomb
lies in wait to ensnare them, and under one pretence or other, introduces himself; he will
offer to shew you the town; if you accept it, you are saddled with an impertinent visiter the
whole time you stay; if you refuse it, he is affronted; so let him; for no gentleman ever does
that without an easy or natural introduction; and then, if they are men of a certain age, their
acquaintance is agreeable and useful. An under-bred Frenchman is the most offensive civil thing
in the world: a well-bred Frenchman, quite the reverse.--Having dined at the table of a person
of fashion at Aix, a pert priest, one the company, asked me many questions relative to the
customs and manners of the English nation; and among other things, I explained to him the elegance
in which the tables of people of the first fashion were served; and told him, that when any
one changed his dish, that his plate, knife and fork, were changed also, and that they were
as perfectly bright and clean as the day they came from the silver-smith's shop. After a little
pause, and a significant sneer,--Pray Sir, (said he) and do you not change your napkins also?
I was piqued a little, and told him we did not, but that indeed I had made a little mistake,
which I would rectify, which was, that though I had told him the plate, knife, and fork, were
so frequently changed at genteel tables in England, there was one exception to it; for it sometimes
happened that low under-bred priests (especially on a Sunday) were necessarily admitted to
the tables of people of fashion, and that the butler sometimes left them to wipe their knife
upon their bread, as I had often seen Lewis the Fifteenth do, even after eating fish with it.--As
it was on a Sunday I had met with this fop of divinity, at a genteel table, I thought I had
been even with him, and I believe he thought so too, for he asked me no more questions; yet
he assured me at his going out, "he had the honour to be my most obedient humble servant."
This over-strained civility, so unlike good-breeding, puts me in mind of what was said of poor
Sir WM. ST. Q----N, after his death, by an arch wag at Bath: Sir William, you know, was a polite
old gentleman, but had the manners and breeding rather of the late, than the present age, and
though a man deservedly esteemed for his many virtues, was by some thought too ceremonious.
Somebody at the round table at Morgan's Coffee-house happened to say, alas! poor Sir William!
he is gone; but he was a good man, and is surely gone to Heaven, and I can tell you what he
said when he first entered the holy gates! the interrogation followed of course: Why, said
he, seeing a large concourse of departed souls, and not a soul that he knew, he bowed to the
right and left, said he begged pardon,--he feared he was troublesome, and if so, he would instantly
retire.--So the Frenchman, when he says he would cut himself in four pieces to serve you, only
means to be very civil, and he will be so, if it does not put him to any expence.

Aix is a well built city; the principal street called the Course, is very long, very broad,
and shaded by stately trees; in the middle of it are four or five fountains, constantly running,
one of which is of very hot water, at which man and beast are constantly drinking. The city
abounds with a great deal of good company, drawn to it from all parts of Europe by the efficacy
of the waters, and to examine its antiquities, for it has in and about it many Greek as well
as Roman monuments.

Some part of the country between Aix and this populous city is very beautiful, but near the
town scarce any vegetation is seen; on all sides high hills and broken rocks present themselves;
and one wonders how a city so large and so astonishingly populous is supported. When I first
approached the entrance gate, it opened a perspective view of the Course, a street of great
extent, where the heads of the people were so thick together, that I concluded it was a FAIR
day, and that the whole country was collected together; but I found it was every day the same.
I saw a prodigious quantity of game and provisions of all kinds, not only in the shops, but
in the streets, and concluded it was not only a cheap, but a plentiful country; but I soon
found my mistake, it was the evening before Lent commenced, and I could find no provisions
of any kind very easily afterwards, and every thing very dear. You may imagine the price of
provisions at Marseilles when I tell you that they have their poultry from Lyons; it is however
a noble city, crouded with men of all nations, walking in the streets in the proper habits
of their country. The harbour is the most secure sea-port in Europe, being land-locked on all
sides, except at a verry narrow entrance; and as there is very little rise or fall of water,
the vessels are always afloat. Many of the galley slaves have little shops near the spot where
the galleys are moored, and appear happy and decently dressed; some of them are rich, and make
annual remittances to their friends. In the Hotel de Ville are two fine large pictures, which
were taken lately from the Jesuits' college; one represents the dreadful scenes which were
seen in the Grand Course during the great plague at Marseilles; the other, the same sad scene
on the Quay, before the doors of the house in which it now hangs. A person cannot look upon
these pictures one minute before he becomes enthralled in the woes which every way present
themselves. You see the good Bishop confessing the sick, the carts carrying out the dead, children
sucking at the breasts of their dead mothers, wives and husbands bewailing, dead bodies lowering
out of the higher windows by cords, the slaves plundering, the Priests exhorting, and such
a variety of interesting and afflicting scenes so forcibly struck out by the painter, that
you seem to hear the groans, weepings, and bewailings, from the dying, the sick and the sound;
and the eye and mind have no other repose on these pictures but by fixing it on a dead body.
The painter, who was upon the spot, has introduced his own figure, but armed like a serjeant
with a halberd. The pictures are indeed dreadfully fine; one is much larger than the other;
and it is said the town Magistrates cut it to fit the place it is in; but it is impossible
to believe any body of men could be guilty of such an act of barbarism! There is still standing
in this town, the house of a Roman senator, now inhabited by a shoe-maker. In the cathedral
they have a marble-stone, on which there is engraved, in Arabic characters, a monumental inscription
to the following effect:

         "GOD is alone permanent.
    This is the Sepulchre of his servant and Martyr,
    who having placed his confidence in the Most
    High, he trusts that his sins will be forgiven."

    JOSEPH, son of ABDALLAH, of the town of Metelin,
               died in the moon Zilhage.

I bought here an Egyptian household God, or Lar of solid metal, which was lately dug up near
the city walls; it is about nine inches high, and weighs about five pounds. Several of the
hieroglyphic characters are visible on the breast and back, and its form is that of an embalmed
mummy. By a wholesome law of this city, the richest citizen must be buried like the poorest,
in a coffin of nine livres value, and that coffin must be bought at the general Hospital. The
sale of these coffins for the dead, goes a great way towards the support of the poor and the sick.

At this town I experienced the very reverse in every respect of what I met with at Barcelona,
though I had no better recommendation to Mr. BIRBECK, his Britannick Majesty's Agent here,
than I had to the Consul of Barcelona; he took my word, at first sight, nay, he took my notes
and gave me money for them, and shewed me and my family many marks of friendly attention: Such
a man, at such a distance from ones own country, is a cordial to a troubled breast, and an
acquisition to every Englishman who goes there either for health or curiosity. Mr. Birbeck
took me with him to a noble Concert, to which he is an annual subscriber, and which was performed
in a room in every respect suitable to so large a band, and so brilliant an assembly: He and
his good wife were the only two British faces I had seen for many months, who looked like Britons.
I shall, indeed I must, soon leave this town, and shall take Avignon on my way to Lyons, from
whence you shall soon hear from me again.

I had forgot to mention, when I was speaking of Montpellier, that the first gentry are strongly
impressed with the notion of the superiority of the English, in every part of philosophy, more
especially in the science of physic; and I found at Montpellier, that these sentiments so favourable
to our countrymen, had been much increased by the extraordinary knowledge and abilities of
Dr. MILMAN, an English physician, who resided there during the winter 1775. This gentleman,
who is one of Doctor RADCLIFFE'S travelling physicians, had performed several very astonishing
cures, in cases which the French Physicians had long treated without success: And indeed the
French physicians, however checked by interest or envy, were obliged to acknowledge this gentleman's
uncommon sagacity in the treatment of diseases. What I say of this ingenious traveller, is
for your sake more than his; for I know nothing more of him than the fame he has left behind
him at Montpellier, and which I doubt not will soon be verified by his deeds among his own
countrymen.

LETTER XXXIX.

AVIGNON.

There is no dependence on what travellers say of different towns and places they have visited,
and therefore you must not lay too much stress upon what I say. A Lady of fashion, who had
travelled all over France, gave the preference to the town I wrote last to you from (Marseilles);
to me, the climate excepted, it is of all others the most disagreeable; yet that Lady did not
mean to deceive; but people often prefer the town for the sake of the company they find, or
some particular or local circumstance that attended their residence in it; in that respect,
I too left it reluctantly, having met with much civility and some old friends there; but surely,
exclusive of its fine harbour, and favourable situation for trade, it has little else to recommend
it, but riot, mob, and confusion; provisions are very dear, and not very good.

On our road here we came again through Aix. The Mule blanche without the town, is better than
any auberge within, and Mons. L'Abbe Abrard Prætor, de la ordre de St. Malta, is not only a
very agreeable, but a very convenient acquaintance for a stranger, and who is always ready
to shew the English in particular, attention, and who had much attention shewn him by Lord
A. PERCY and his Lady.

From Aix we passed through Lambresque, Orgon, and Sencage, a fine country, full of almond trees,
and which were in full blossom on the 7th of March. At Orgon the post-house was so bad, that
after my horse was in the stable, I was obliged to put him to, and remove to the Soleil d'Or,
without the town, and made a good move too. The situation of Notre Dame de St. Piere, a convent
on a high hill, is worthy of notice, and the antiquity of the town also.--Five leagues from
Orgon we crossed a very aukward passage in a ferry-boat, and were landed in the Pope's territories,
about five miles from Avignon. The castle, and higher part of the town, were visible, rising
up in the middle of a vast plain, fertile and beautiful as possible. If we were charmed with
the distant view, we were much more so upon a nearer approach; nothing can be more pleasing
than the well-planted, and consequently well-shaded coach and foot roads all round this pretty
little city; all shut in with the most beautiful ancient fortification walls I ever beheld,
and all in perfect repair; nor were we asked any questions by the Pope's soldiers, or Custom-house
Officers. I had a letter to Dr. POWER, an English Physician in this town, who received me with
great civity, and made me known to LORD MOUNTGARRET, and Mr. BUTLER, his son, with whom I had
the honour to spend some very agreeable hours: his Lordship has an excellent house here, and
keeps a table, truly characteristic of the hospitality of his own country.--And now I cannot
help telling you of a singular disorder which attacked me the very day I arrived; and the still
more singular manner I got well: the day before I arrived, we had been almost blown along the
road to Orgon by a most violent wind; but I did not perceive that I had received any cold or
injury from it, till we arrived here, and then, I had such an external soreness from head to
foot, that I almost dreaded to walk or stir, and when I did, it was as slow as my feet could
move; after continuing so for some days, I was much urged to dine with Lord MOUNTGARRET, on
St. Patrick's day; I did so, and by drinking a little more than ordinary, set nature to work,
who, without any other Doctor, did the business, by two or three nights' copious sweats. I
would not have mentioned this circumstance, but it may be the mal du pais, and ought to be
mentioned for the method of cure.

There was not quite so good an understanding between the Pope's
Legate and the English residing here, as could be wished; some
untoward circumstance had happened, and there seemed to be faults on
both sides; it was carried, I think, to such a length, that when the
English met him, they did not pull off their hats; but as it happened
before I came, and as in our walks and rides we often met him airing in
his coach, we paid that respect which is everywhere due to a first
magistrate, and he took great pains to return it most graciously; his
livery, guards, &c. make a very splendid appearance: he holds a court,
and is levee'd every Sunday, though not liked by the French. At the
church of St. Didier, in a little chapel, of mean workmanship, is the
tomb of the celebrated Laura, whose name Petrarch has rendered
immortal; the general opinion is, that she died a virgin; but it appears
by her tomb, that she was the wife of Hugues de Sade, and that she
had many children.
    Car la parole est toujours reprimée
    Quand le sujet surmonte le disant."

This town is crowded with convents and churches. The convent of the Celestines, founded by
Charles the VIth, is richly endowed, and has noble gardens: there are not above fourteen or
fifteen members, and their revenue is near two thousand pounds sterling a year. In their church
is a very superb monument of Pope Clement the VIIth, who died here in the year 1394, as a long
Latin inscription upon it announces. They shew in this house a picture, painted by King Renee;
it represents the frightful remains of his beloved mistress, whose body he took out of the
grave, and painted it in the state he then found it, i.e. with the worms crawling about it:
it is a hideous figure, and hideously painted; the stone coffin stands on a line with the figure,
but is above a foot too short for the body; and on the other side is a long scrole of verses,
written in Gothic characters, which begin thus:

    "Une fois fus sur toutes femmes belle
    Mais par la mort suis devenue telle
    Machair estoit tres-belle fraische & tendre
    O'r est elle toute tournee en cendre."

There follow at least forty other such lines.

There is also in this convent, a fine monument, on which stands the effigies of St. Benezet,
a shepherd of Avignon, who built (they say) the bridge from the town over the Rhone, in consequence
of a dream, in the year 1127: some of the noble arches are still standing, and part of a very
pretty chapel on it, nearly in the middle of the river; but a great part of the bridge has
been carried away, many years since, by the violence of the river, which often not only overflows
its banks, but the lower part of the town. In 1755, it rose seventeen feet higher than its
usual flowing, and I saw marks in many of the streets, high above my head, against the sides
of houses, which it had risen to; but with all my industry, I could find no mark upon the house
where Lady Mary Wortley Montagu dwelt, though she resided some time here, and though I endeavoured
to find it.

I need not describe the celebrated fountain of Vaucluse, near this town, where Petrarque composed
his works, and established Mount Parnassus. This is the only part of France in which there
is an Inquisition, but the Officers seem content with their profits and honours, without the power.

One part of the town is allotted to the Jews, where about six or seven hundred live peaceably
and have their synagogue; and it was here the famous rabbin Joseph Meir was born; he died in
the year 1554; he was author, you know, of Annals des Rois de France, and de la Maison Ottomane.

Not far from Avignon, on the banks of the same rapid river, stands Beaucaire, famous for its
annual FAIR, where merchandize is brought from all parts of Europe, free of all duties: it
begins on the 22d of July; and it is computed that eight million of livres are annually expended
there in eight days. Avignon is remarkable for the No. Seven, having seven ports, seven parishes,
seven colleges, seven hospitals, and seven monasteries; and I may add, I think, seven hundred
bells, which are always making a horrid jingle, for they have no idea of ringing bells harmoniously
in any part of France.

LETTER XL.

LYONS.

After a month's residence at Avignon, where I waited till the weather and roads amongst the
high Dauphine mountains were both improved, I sat out for this city. I had, you know, outward
bound, dropt down to Port St. Esprit by water, so it was a new scene to us by land, and I assure
you it was a fine one; the vast and extensive rich vales, adorned on all sides with such romantic
mountains, could not be otherwise, in such a climate. Our first stage was only four leagues
to Orange; this is the last town in the Pope's territories; and within a quarter of a mile
of it stands, in a corn field, a beautiful Roman triumphal arch, so great in ruins, that it
would be an ornament even in Rome. The Palais Royal at this town, has nothing to recommend
it, but that it affords a prospect of this rich morsel of antiquity.

From Orange we passed through Pierlaite, Donzeir, and several smaller towns, and we lay one
night at a single house, but an excellent auberge, called Souce, kept by an understanding sensible
host.

At a little village called A'tang, on the banks of the Rhone, we stopped a day or two, to enjoy
the sweet situation. Just opposite to it, on the other side of the river, stands a large town,
(Tournau,) which added to the beauty of our village, over which hangs a very high mountain,
from whence the best Hermitage wine is collected: I suppose it is called Hermitage, from a
Hermit's cell on the top of it; but so unlike the Montserrat Hermitages, that I contented myself
with only tasting the Hermit's wine; it was so good indeed, that though I did not see how it
was possible to get it safe to the north side of France, I could not withstand the temptation
of buying a cask, for which I was to pay twelve guineas, and did pay one as earnest, to a very
sensible, and I believe honest and opulent wine merchant, who, however, made me a present of
two bottles when I came away, almost worth my guinea; it is three livres a bottle on the spot;
and he shewed me orders he had received from men of fashion in England, for wine; among which
was one from Mr. Ryder, Sir Dudley Ryder's son I fancy, who, I found, was well satisfied with
his former dealings. Do you know that Claret is greatly improved by a mixture of Hermitage,
and that the best Claret we have in England is generally so adulterated?

The next towns we passed were Pevige and Vienne, the latter only five leagues from this city.
It is a very ancient town, and was formerly a Roman colony. The cathedral is a large and noble
Gothic structure, and in it is a fine tomb of Cardinal Mountmoin, said to be equal in workmanship
to Richlieu's in the Sorbonne, but said to be so, by people no ways qualified to judge properly;
it is indeed an expensive but a miserable performance, when put in competition with the works
of Girrardeau. About half a mile without the town is a noble pyramidal Roman monument, said
to have stood in the center of the Market-place, in the time of the Romans. There is also to
be seen in this town, a Mosaic pavement discovered only a few years since, wonderfully beautiful
indeed, and near ten feet square, though not quite perfect, being broken in the night by some
malicious people, out of mere wantonness, soon after it was discovered.

At this town I was recommended to the Table Round; but as there are two, the grande and the
petit, I must recommend you to the petit where I was obliged to move; for, of all the dreadful
women I ever came near, Madam Rousillion has the least mellifluous notes; her ill behaviour,
however, procured me the honour of a very agreeable acquaintance, the Marquis DeValan, who
made me ashamed, by shewing us an attention we had no right to expect; but this is one, among
many other agreeable circumstances, which attend strangers travelling in France. French gentlemen
never see strangers ill treated, without standing forth in their defence; and I hope English
gentlemen will follow their example, because it is a piece of justice due to strangers, in
whatever country they are, or whatever country they are from; it is doing as one would be done
by. That prejudice which prevails in England, even among some people of fashion, against the
French nation is illiberal, in the highest degree; nay, it is more, it is a national disgrace.--When
I recollect with what ease and uninterruption I have passed through so many great and little
towns, and extensive provinces, without a symptom of wanton rudeness being offered me, I blush
to think how a Frenchman, if he made no better figure than I did, would have been treated in
a tour through Britain.--My Monkey, with a pair of French jack boots, and his hair en queue,
rode postillion upon my sturdy horse some hours every day; such a sight, you may be sure, brought
forth old and young, sick and lame, to look at him and his master. Jocko put whole towns in
motion, but never brought any affront on his master; they came to look and to laugh, but not
to deride or insult. The post-boys, it is true, did not like to see their fraternity taken
off, in my little Theatre; but they seldom discovered it, but by a grave salutation; and sometimes
a good humoured fellow called him comrade, and made Jocko a bow; they could not laugh at his
bad seat, for not one of them rode with more ease; or had a handsomer laced jacket. Mr. Buffon
says, the Monkey or Maggot, (and mine is the latter, for he has no tail) make their grimace
or chattering equally to shew their anger or to make known their appetite. With all due deference
to this great naturalist, I must beg leave to say, that his observation is not quite just;
there is as much difference between the grimace of my Jocko, when he is angry or hungry, and
when he grins to shew delight, as there is in a man, when he gnashes his teeth in wrath, or
laughs from mirth.

Between Avignon and this town I met a dancing bear, mounted by a Maggot: as it was upon the
high road, I desired leave to present Jocko to his grandfather, for so he appeared both in
age and size; the interview, though they were both males, was very affecting; never did a father
receive a long-lost child with more seeming affection than the old gentleman did my Jocko;
he embraced him with every degree of tenderness imaginable, while the young gentleman (like
other young gentlemen of the present age) betrayed a perfect indifference. In my conscience
I believe it, there was some consanguinity between them, or the reception would have proved
more mutual. Between you and me, I fear, were I to return to England, I might find myself a
sad party in such an interview. It is a sad reflection; but perhaps Providence may wisely ordain
such things, in order as men grow older, to wean them from the objects of their worldly affections,
that they may resign more readily to the decree of fate. That good man, Dr. ARBUTHNOT, did
not seem to dread the approach of death on his own account, so much as from the grievous affliction
HE had reason to fear it would bring upon his children and family.

LETTER XLI.

LYONS,

The Harangue of the Emperor CLAUDIUS, in the SENATE. Copied from the original Bronze plate
in the Hotel de Ville, of Lyons.

FIRST TABLE.

MOERERUM . Sabinis · veniens · vicinus · quidem · se · tunc.

The above harangue, made by CLAUDIUS, in favor of the LYONOISE, and which he pronounced in
the Senate, is the only remains of the works of this Emperor, though he composed many. Suetonius
says he composed forty-three books of a history, and left eight compleat of his own life; and
adds, that he wrote more elegantly than judiciously.

LETTER XLII.

LYONS.

I have now spent a month in my second visit to this great and flourishing city, and fortunately
took lodgings in a Hotel, where I found the lady and sister of Mons. Le Marquis De Valan, whose
politeness to us I mentioned in a former letter at Vienne, and by whose favour I have had an
opportunity of seeing more, and being better informed, than I could have been without so respectable
an acquaintance. At Vienne I only knew his rank, here I became acquainted with his good character,
and fortune, which is very considerable in Dauphine, where he has two or three fine seats.
His Lady came to Lyons to lye-in, attended by the Marquis's sister, a Chanoinesse, a most agreeable
sensible woman, of a certain age; but the Countess is young and beautiful.

You may imagine that, after what I said of Lyons, on my way to Spain, I did not associate much
with my own country-folks. On my return, indeed, my principal amusement was to see as much
as I could, in a town where so much is to be seen; and in relating to you what I have seen,
I will begin with the Hotel De Ville; if it had not that name, I should have called it a Palace,
for there are few palaces so large or so noble; on the first entrance of which, in the vestibule,
you see, fixed in the wall, a large plate of Bronze, bearing stronger marks of fire than of
age; on which were engraven, seventeen hundred years ago, two harangues made by the Emperor
Claudius in the senate, in favour of the Lyonoise, and which are not only legible at this day,
but all the letters are sharp and well executed; the plate indeed is broke quite through the
middle, but fortunately the fraction runs between the first and second harangues, so as to
have done but little injury among the the letters. As I do not know whether you ever saw a
copy of it, I inclose it to you, and desire you will send it as an agreeable exercise, to be
well translated by my friend at Oxford.

On the other side of the vestibule is a noble stair-case, on which is well painted the destruction
of the city, by so dreadful a fire in the time of the Romans, that Seneca, who gives an account
of it in a letter to his friend, says,

    "Una nox fuit inter urbem maximam et nullum."

    i.e. One night only intervened between a great city and nothing.

There is something awful in this scene, to see on one side of the stair-case the conflagration
well executed; on the other, strong marks of the very fire which burnt so many ages ago; for
there can be no doubt, but that the Bronze plate then stood in the Roman Hotel de Ville, and
was burnt down with it, because it was dug up among the refuse of the old city on the mountain
called Fourvire, on the other side of the river, where the original city was built.--In cutting
the letters on this large plate of Bronze, they have, to gain room, made no distance between
the words, but shewn the division only by a little touch thus < with the graver; and where
a word eroded with a C, or G, they have put the touch within the concavity of the letter, otherwise
it is admirably well executed.

Upon entering into the long gallery above stairs, you are shewn the late King and Queen's pictures
at full length, surrounded with the heads of some hundred citizens; and in one corner of the
room an ancient altar, the Taurabolium, dug up in 1704, near the same place where Claudius's
harangue was found; it is of common stone, well executed, about four feet high, and one foot
and a half square; on the front of it is the bull's head, in demi relief, adorned with a garland
of corn; on the right side is the victimary knife[A] of a very singular form; and on the left
the head of a ram, adorned as the bull's; near the point of the knife are the following words,
cujus factum est; the top of the altar is hollowed out into the form of a shallow bason, in
which, I suppose, incense was burnt and part of the victims.

   [A] The knife, which is cut in demi relief, on the Taurobolium,
   is crooked upon the back, exactly in the same manner, and form, as
   may be seen on some of the medals of the Kings of Macedonia.

The Latin inscription under the bull's head, is very well cut, and very legible, by which it
appears, that by the express order of CYBELE, the reputed mother of the Gods, for the honour
and health of the Emperor Antoninus Pius, father of his country, and for the preservation of
his children, children, Lucius Æmilius Carpus[B] received the horns of the bull, by the ministration
of Quintus Samius Secundus, transported them to the Vatican, and consecrated, at his own expence,
this altar and the head of the bull[C]; but I will send the inscription, and a model[D] of
the altar, as soon as I can have it made, as I find here a very ingenious sculptor and modeller;
who, to my great serprize, says no one has hitherto been taken from it. And here let me observe,
lest I forget it, to say, that Augustus lived three years in this city.

   [B] Lucius Æmilius Carpus was a Priest, and a man of great
   riches: he was of the quality of Sacrovir, and probably one of
   the six Priests of the temple of Angustus.--Sextumvir Augustalii.

   [C] Several inscriptions of this kind have been found both in Italy
   and Spain, but by far the greater number among the Gauls; and as
   the sacrifices to the Goddess Cybele were some of the least ancient
   of the Pagan rites, so they were the last which were suppressed on
   the establishment of Christianity. Since we find one of the
   Taurobolian inscriptions, with so recent a date as the time of the
   Emperor Valentinian the third. The silence of the Heathen writers
   on this head is very wonderful; for the only one who makes any
   mention of them is Julius Firmicus Maternus, in his dissertation on
   the errors of the Pagan religion; as Dalenius, in his elaborate
   account of the Taurobolium, has remarked.

