"All right," he said.  "I know where I can borrow a rig for an hour. Get ready if you are well
enough, if you are not, I'll help you after school."

That week with Aunt Ollie remained a bright spot in Kate's memory. The October days were beginning
to be crisp and cool.  Food was different. She could sleep, she could eat many things Aunt
Ollie knew to prepare especially; soon she could walk and be outdoors. She was so much better
she wrote George a note, asking him to walk out and bring her sewing basket, and some goods
she listed, and in the afternoons the two women cut and sewed quaint, enticing little garments.
George found Kate so much better when he came that he proposed she remain another week. Then
for the first time he talked to her about her theory of government and teaching, until she
realized that the School Director had told him he was dissatisfied with him--so George was
trying to learn her ways. Appalled at what might happen if he lost the school, Kate made notes,
talked at length, begged him to do his best, and to come at once if anything went wrong.  He
did come, and brought the school books so she went over the lessons with him, and made marginal
notes of things suggested to her mind by the text, for him to discuss and elucidate. The next
time he came, he was in such good spirits she knew his work had been praised, so after that
they went over the lessons together each evening.  Thinking of what would help him also helped
fill her day.

He took her home, greatly improved, in much better spirits, to her room, cleaned and ready
for winter, with all of her things possible to use in place, so that it was much changed, prettier,
and more convenient.  As they drove in she said of him:  "George, what about it? Did your mother
purposely fix my food so I could not eat it?"

"Oh, I wouldn't say that," he said.  "You know neither of you is violently attached to the
other.  She'll be more careful after this, I'm sure she will."

"Why, have you been sick?" asked Kate as soon as she saw Mrs. Holt.

She seemed so nervous and appeared so badly Kate was sorry for her; but she could not help
noticing how she kept watch on her son.  She seemed to keep the width of the room and a piece
of furniture between them, while her cooking was so different that it was not in the least
necessary for George to fix things for Kate himself, as he had suggested.  Everything was so
improved, Kate felt better.  She began to sew, to read, to sit for long periods in profound
thought, then to take walks that brought back her strength and colour.  So through the winter
and toward the approach of spring they lived in greater comfort.  With Kate's help, George
was doing so well with the school that he was frequently complimented by the parents.  That
he was trying to do good work and win the approval of both pupils and parents was evident to
Kate.  Once he said to her that he wondered if it would be a good thing for him to put in an
application for the school the coming winter. Kate stared at him in surprise:  "But your profession,"
she objected. "You should be in your office and having enough practice to support us by then."

"Yes, I should!" he said.  "But this is a new thing, and you know how these clodhoppers are."

"If I came as near living in the country, and worked at farming as much as you do, that's the
last thing I would call any human being," said Kate.  "I certainly do know how they are, and
what I know convinces me that you need not look to them for any patients."

"You seem to think I won't have any from any source," he said hotly.

"I confess myself dubious," said Kate.  "You certainly are, or you wouldn't be talking of teaching."

"Well, I'll just show you!" he cried.

"I'm waiting," said Kate.  "But as we must live in the meantime, and it will be so long before
I can earn anything again, and so much expense, possibly it would be a good idea to have the
school to fall back on, if you shouldn't have the patients you hope for this summer.  I think
you have done well with the school.  Do your level best until the term closes, and you may
have a chance."

Laughing scornfully, he repeated his old boast:  "I'll just show you!"

"Go ahead," said Kate.  "And while you are at it, be generous. Show me plenty.  But in the
meantime, save every penny you can, so you'll be ready to pay the doctor's bills and furnish
your office."

"I love you advice; it's so Batesy," he said.  "I have money saved for both contingencies you
mention, but I'll tell you what I think, and about this I'm the one who knows.  I've told you
repeatedly winter is my best time.  I've lost the winter trying to help you out; and I've little
chance until winter comes again.  It takes cold weather to make folks feel what ails their
muscles, and my treatment is mostly muscular.  To save so we can get a real start, wouldn't
it be a good idea for you to put part of your things in my room, take what you must have, and
fix Mother's bedroom for you, let her move her bed into her living room, and spare me all you
can of your things to fix up your room for my office this summer.  That would save rent, it's
only a few steps from downtown, and when I wasn't busy with patients, I could be handy to the
garden, and to help you."

"If your mother is willing, I'll do my share," said Kate, "although the room's cramped, and
where I'll put the small party when he comes I don't know, but I'll manage someway.  The big
objection to it is that it will make it look to people as if it were a makeshift, instead of
starting a real business."

"Real," was the wrong word.  It was the red rag that started George raging, until to save her
self-respect, Kate left the room. Later in the day he announced that his mother was willing,
she would clean the living room and move in that day.  How Kate hated the tiny room with its
one exterior wall, only one small window, its scratched woodwork, and soiled paper, she could
not say.  She felt physically ill when she thought of it, and when she thought of the heat
of the coming summer, she wondered what she would do; but all she could do was to acquiesce.
She made a trip downtown and bought a quart of white paint and a few rolls of dainty, fresh
paper.  She made herself ill with turpentine odours in giving the woodwork three coats, and
fell from a table almost killing herself while papering the ceiling.  There was no room for
her trunk; the closet would not hold half her clothes; her only easy chair was crowded out;
she was sheared of personal comfort at a clip, just at a time when every comfort should have
been hers.  George ordered an operating table, on which to massage his patients, a few other
necessities, and in high spirits, went about fixing up his office and finishing his school.
He spent hours in the woodshed with the remainder of Kate's white paint, making a sign to hang
in front of the house.

He was so pathetically anxious for a patient, after he had put his table in place, hung up
his sign, and paid for an announcement in the county paper and the little Walden sheet, that
Kate was sorry for him.

On a hot July morning Mrs. Holt was sweeping the front porch when a forlorn specimen of humanity
came shuffling up the front walk and asked to see Dr. Holt.  Mrs. Holt took him into the office
and ran to the garden to tell George his first patient had come.  His face had been flushed
from pulling weeds, but it paled perceptibly as he started to the back porch to wash his hands.

"Do you know who it is, Mother?" he asked.

"It's that old Peter Mines," she said, "an' he looks fit to drop."

"Peter Mines!" said George.  "He's had about fifty things the matter with him for about fifty
years."

"Then you're a made man if you can even make him think he feels enough better so's he'll go
round talking about it," said Mrs. Holt, shrewdly.

George stood with his hands dripping water an instant, thinking deeply.

"Well said for once, old lady," he agreed.  "You are just exactly right."

He hurried to his room, and put on his coat.

"A patient that will be a big boom for me," he boasted to Kate as he went down the hall.

Mrs. Holt stood listening at the hall door.  Kate walked around the dining room, trying to
occupy herself.  Presently cringing groans began to come from the room, mingling with George's
deep voice explaining, and trying to encourage the man.  Then came a wild shriek and then silence.
Kate hurried out to the back walk and began pacing up and down in the sunshine.  She did not
know it, but she was praying.

A minute later George's pallid face appeared at the back door: "You come in here quick and
help me," he demanded.

"What's the matter?" asked Kate.

"He's fainted.  His heart, I think.  He's got everything that ever ailed a man!" he said.

"Oh, George, you shouldn't have touched him," said Kate.

"Can't you see it will make me, if I can help him!  Even Mother could see that," he cried.

"But if his heart is bad, the risk of massaging him is awful," said Kate as she hurried after
George.

Kate looked at the man on the table, ran her hand over the heart region, and lifted terrified
eyes to George.

"Do you think--?" he stammered.

"Sure of it!" she said, "but we can try.  Bring your camphor bottle, and some water," she cried
to Mrs. Holt.

For a few minutes, they worked frantically.  Then Kate stepped back. "I'm scared, and I don't
care who knows it," she said. "I'm going after Dr. James."

"No, you are not!" cried George.  "You just hold yourself.  I'll have him out in a minute.
Begin at his feet and rub the blood up to his heart."

"They are swollen to a puff, he's got no circulation," said Kate. "Oh, George, how could you
ever hope to do anything for a man in this shape, with MUSCULAR treatment?"

"You keep still and rub, for God's sake," he cried, frantically. "Can't you see that I am ruined
if he dies on this table?"

"No, I can't," said Kate.  "Everybody would know that he was practically dying when he came
here.  Nobody will blame you, only, you never should have touched him!  George, I AM going
after Dr. James."

"Well, go then," he said wildly.

Kate started.  Mrs. Holt blocked the doorway.

"You just stop, Missy!" she cried.  "You're away too smart, trying to get folks in here, and
ruin my George's chances.  You just stay where you are till I think what to do, to put the
best face on this!"

"He may not be really gone!  The doctor might save him!" cried Kate.

Mrs. Holt looked long at the man.

"He's deader 'an a doornail," she said.  "You stay where you are!"

Kate picked her up by the shoulders, set her to one side, ran from the room and down the street
as fast as possible.  She found the doctor in his office with two patients.  She had no time
to think or temporize.

"Get your case and come to our house quick, doctor," she cried. "An old man they call Peter
Mines came to see George, and his heart has failed. Please hurry!"

"Heart, eh?" said the doctor.  "Well, wait a minute.  No use to go about a bad heart without
digitalis."

He got up and put on his hat, told the men he would be back soon, and went to the nearest drug
store.  Kate followed.  The men who had been in the office came also.

"Doctor, hurry!" she panted.  "I'm so frightened."

"You go to some of the neighbours, and stay away from there," he said.

"Hurry!" begged Kate.  "Oh, do hurry!"

She was beside him as they sped down the street, and at his shoulder as they entered the room.
With one glance she lurched against the casing and then she plunged down the hall, entered
her room, closed the door behind her, and threw herself on the bed. She had only a glance,
but in that glance she had seen Peter Mines sitting fully clothed, his hat on his head, his
stick in his hands, in her easy chair; the operating table folded and standing against the
wall; Mrs. Holt holding the camphor bottle to Peter's nose, while George had one hand over
Peter's heart, the other steadying his head.

The doctor swung the table in place, and with George's help laid Peter on it, then began tearing
open his clothes.  As they worked the two men followed into the house to see if they could
do anything and excited neighbours began to gather.  George and his mother explained how Peter
had exhausted himself walking two miles from the country that hot morning, how he had entered
the office, tottering with fatigue, and had fallen in the chair in a fainting condition.  Everything
was plausible until a neighbour woman, eager to be the centre of attention for a second, cried:
"Yes, we all see him come more'n an hour ago; and when he begin to let out the yells we says
to each other, 'THERE!  George has got his first patient, sure!'  An' we all kind of waited
to see if he'd come out better."

The doctor looked at her sharply:  "More than an hour ago?" he said. "You heard cries?"

"Yes, more'n a good hour ago.  Yes, we all heard him yell, jist once, good and loud!" she said.

The doctor turned to George.  Before he could speak his mother intervened.

"That was our Kate done the yellin'," she said.  "She was scart crazy from the start.  He jest
come in, and set in the chair and he's been there ever since."

"You didn't give him any treatment, Holt?" asked the doctor.

Again Mrs. Holt answered:  "Never touched him!  Hadn't even got time to get his table open.
Wa'n't nothing he could 'a' done for him anyway. Peter was good as gone when he got here. 
His fool folks never ought 'a' let him out this hot day, sick as he was."

The doctor looked at George, at his mother, long at Peter.  "He surely was too sick to walk
that far in this heat," he said.  "But to make sure, I'll look him over.  George, you help
me.  Clear the room of all but these two men."

HE began minutely examining Peter's heart region.  Then he rolled him over and started to compress
his lungs.  Long white streaks marked the puffy red of the swollen, dropsical flesh.  The doctor
examined the length of the body, and looked straight into George Holt's eyes.

"No use," he said.  "Bill, go to the 'phone in my office, and tell Coroner Smith to get here
from Hartley as soon as he can.  All that's left to do here is to obey the law, and have a
funeral. Better some of the rest of you go tell his folks.  I've done all I can do.  It's up
to the Coroner now.  The rest of you go home, and keep still till he comes."

When he and George were left alone he said tersely:  "Of course you and your mother are lying.
You had this man stripped, he did cry out, and he did die from the pain of the treatment you
tried to give him, in his condition.  By the way, where's your wife? This is a bad thing for
her right now.  Come, let's find her and see what state she is in."

Together they left the room and entered Kate's door.  As soon as the doctor was busy with her,
George slipped back into the closed room, rolled Peter on his back and covered him, in the
hope that the blood would settle until it would efface the marks of his work before the Coroner
arrived.  By that time the doctor was too busy to care much what happened to Peter Mines; he
was a poor old soul better off as he was.  Across Kate's unconscious body he said to George
Holt:  "I'm going to let the Coroner make what he pleases out of this, solely for your wife's
sake.  But two things:  take down that shingle.  Take it down now, and never put it up again
if you want me to keep still.  I'll give you what you paid for that table.  It's a good one.
Get him out as soon as you can.  Set him in another room.  I've got to have Mrs. Holt where
I can work. And send Sarah Nepple here to help me.  Move fast!  This is going to be a close
call.  And the other thing:  I've heard you put in an application for our school this winter.
Withdraw it!  Now move!"

So they set Peter in the living room, cleaned Kate's room quickly, and moved in her bed.  By
the time the Coroner arrived, the doctor was too busy to care what happened.  On oath he said
a few words that he hoped would make life easier for Kate, and at the same time pass muster
for truth; told the Coroner what witnesses to call; and gave an opinion as to Peter's condition.
He also added that he was sure Peter's family would be very glad he was to suffer no more,
and then he went back to Kate who was suffering entirely too much for safety.  Then began a
long vigil that ended at midnight with Kate barely alive and Sarah Nepple, the Walden mid-wife,
trying to divide a scanty wardrobe between a pair of lusty twins.

CHAPTER XV

A NEW IDEA

KATE slowly came back to consciousness.  She was conscious of her body, sore from head to foot,
with plenty of pain in definite spots.  Her first clear thought was that she was such a big
woman; it seemed to her that she filled the room, when she was one bruised ache from head to
heels.  Then she became conscious of a moving bundle on the bed beside her, and laid her hand
on it to reassure herself.  The size and shape of the bundle were not reassuring.

"Oh, Lord!" groaned Kate.  "Haven't You any mercy at all?  It was Your advice I followed when
I took wing and started out in life."

A big sob arose in her throat, while at the same time she began to laugh weakly.  Dr. James
heard her from the hall and entered hastily. At the sight of him, Kate's eyes filled with terrified
remembrance. Her glance swept the room, and rested on her rocking chair.  "Take that out of
here!" she cried.  "Take it out, split it into kindling wood, and burn it."

"All right," said Dr. James calmly.  "I'll guarantee that you never see it again.  Is there
anything else you want?"

"You--you didn't--?"

The doctor shook his head.  "Very sorry," he said, "but there wasn't a thing could be done."

"Where is he?" she asked in a whisper.

"His people took him home immediately after the Coroner's inquest, which found that he died
from heart failure, brought on by his long walk in the heat."

Kate stared at him with a face pitiful to behold.

"You let him think THAT?" she whispered again.

"I did," said the old doctor.  "I thought, and still think, that for the sake of you and yours,"
he waved toward the bundle, "it was the only course to pursue."

"Thank you," said Kate.  "You're very kind.  But don't you think that I and mine are going
to take a lot of shielding?  The next man may not be so kindly disposed.  Besides, is it right?
Is it honest?"

"It is for you," said the doctor.  "You had nothing to do with it. If you had, things would
not have gone as they did.  As for me, I feel perfectly comfortable about it in my conscience,
which is my best guide.  All I had to do was to let them tell their story.  I perjured myself
only to the extent of testifying that you knew nothing about it. The Coroner could well believe
that.  George and his mother could easily manage the remainder."

Kate waved toward the bundle:  "Am I supposed to welcome and love them?"

"A poet might expect you to," said the doctor.  "In the circumstances, I do not.  I shall feel
that you have done your whole duty if you will try to nurse them when the time comes.  You
must have a long rest, and they must grow some before you'll discover what they mean to you.
There's always as much chance that they'll resemble your people as that they will not.  The
boy will have dark hair and eyes I think, but he looks exactly like you.  The girl is more Holt."

"Where is George?" she asked.

