August 3rd. I got a chill bathing the other day so now I am not allowed to bathe for a few
days. Robert keeps me company. We are quite alone and he tells me all sorts of tales. He swings
me so high that I positively yell. To-day he made me really angry, for he said: Oswald is a
regular noodle. I said, that's not true, boys can never stand one another. Besides, it is not
true that he lisps. Anyhow I like Oswald much better than Dora who always says "the children"
when she is talking of me and of Hella and even of Robert. Then he said: Dora is just as big
a goose as Erna. He's quite right there. Robert says he is never going to smoke, that it is
so vulgar, that real gentlemen never smoke. But what about Father, I should like to know? He
says, too, that he will never grow a beard but will shave every day and his wife will have
to put everything straight to him. But a beard suits Father and I can't imagine him without
a beard. I know I won't marry a man without a beard.

August 5th. We go to the tennis ground every day. When we set off yesterday, Robert and I and
Liesel and Erna and Rene, Dora called after us: The bridal pair in spee. She had picked up
the phrase from Oswald. I think it means in a hundred years. She can wait a hundred years if
she likes, we shan't. Mother scolded her like anything and said she mustn't say such stupid
things. A good job too; in spee, in spee. Now we always talk of her as Inspee, but no one knows
who we mean.

August 6th. Hella can't come here, for she is going to Klausenburg with her mother to stay
with her other uncle who is district judge there or whatever they call a district judge in
Hungary. Whenever I think of a district judge I think of District Judge T., such a hideous
man. What a nose and his wife is so lovely; but her parents forced her into the marriage. I
would not let anyone force me into such a marriage, I would much sooner not marry at all, besides
she's awfully unhappy.

August 7th. There has been such a fearful row about Dora. Oswald told Father that she flirted
so at the tennis court and he could not stand it. Father was in a towering rage and now we
mayn't play tennis any more. What upset her more than anything was that Father said in front
of me: This little chit of 14 is already encouraging people to make love to her. Her eyes were
quite red and swollen and she couldn't eat anything at supper because she had such a headache!!
We know all about her headaches. But I really can't see why I shouldn't go and play tennis.

August 8th. Oswald says that it wasn't the student's fault at all but only Dora's. I can quite
believe that when I think of that time on the Southern Railway. Still, they won't let me play
tennis any more, though I begged and begged Mother to ask Father to let me. She said it would
do no good for Father was very angry and I mustn't spend whole days with the Warths any more.
Whole days! I should like to know when I was a whole day there. When I went there naturally
I had to stay to dinner at least. What have I got to do with Dora's love affairs? It's really
too absurd. But grown-ups are always like that. When one person has done anything the others
have to pay for it too.

August 9th. Thank goodness, I can play tennis once more; I begged and begged until Father let
me go. Dora declares that nothing will induce her to ask! That's the old story of the fox and
the grapes. She has been playing the invalid lately, won't bathe, and stays at home when she
can instead of going for walks. I should like to know what's the matter with her. What I can't
make out is why Father lets her do it. As for Mother, she always spoils Dora; Dora is Mother's
favourite, especially when Oswald is not on hand. I can understand her making a favourite of
Oswald, but not of Dora. Father always says that parents have no favourites, but treat all
their children alike. That's true enough as far as Father is concerned, although Dora declares
that Father makes a favourite of me; but that's only her fancy. At Christmas and other times
we always get the same sort of presents, and that's the real test. Rosa Plank always gets at
least three times as much as the rest of the family, that's what it is to be a favourite.

August 12th. I can't write every day for I spend most of my time with the Warths. Oswald can't
stand Robert, he says he is a cad and a greenhorn. What vulgar phrases. For three days I haven't
spoken to Oswald except when I really had to. When I told Erna and Liesel about it, they said
that brothers were always rude to their sisters. I said, I should like to know why. Besides,
Robert is generally very nice to his sisters. They said, Yes before you, because he's on his
best behaviour with you. Yesterday we laughed like anything when he told us what fun the boys
make of their masters. That story about the cigarette ends was screamingly funny. They have
a society called T. Au. M., that is in Latin Be Silent or Die in initial letters. No one may
betray the society's secrets, and when they make a new member he has to strip off all his clothes
and lie down naked and every one spits on his chest and rubs it and says: Be One of Us, but
all in Latin. Then he has to go to the eldest and biggest who gives him two or three cuts with
a cane and he has to swear that he will never betray anyone. Then everyone smokes a cigar and
touches him with the lighted end on the arm or somewhere and says: Every act of treachery will
burn you like that. And then the eldest, who has a special name which I can't remember, tattoos
on him the word Taum, that is Be Silent or Die, and a heart with the name of a girl. Robert
says that if he had known me sooner he would have chosen "Gretchen." I asked him what name
he had tattooed on him, but he said he was not allowed to tell. I shall tell Oswald to look
when they are bathing and to tell me. In this society they abuse the masters frightfully and
the one who thinks of the best tricks to play on them is elected to the Rohon; to be a Rohon
is a great distinction and the others must always carry out his orders. He said there was a
lot more which he couldn't tell me because it's too tremendous. Then I had to swear that I
would never tell anyone about the society and he wanted me to take the oath upon my knees,
but I wouldn't do that and he nearly forced me to my knees. In the end I had to give him my
hand on it and a kiss. I didn't mind giving him that, for a kiss is nothing, but nothing would
induce me to kneel down. Still, I was in an awful fright, for we were quite alone in the garden
and he took me by the throat and tried to force me to my knees. All that about the society
he told me when we were quite alone for he said: I can't have your name tattooed on me because
it's against our laws to have two names but now that you have sworn I can let you know what
I really am and think in secret.

I couldn't sleep all night for I kept on dreaming of the society, wondering whether there are
such societies in the high school and whether Dora is in a society and has a name tattooed
on her. But it would be horrible to have to strip naked before all one's schoolfellows. Perhaps
in the societies of the high-school girls that part is left out. But I shouldn't like to say
for sure whether I'd have Robert's name tattooed on me.

August 15th. Yesterday Robert told me that there are some schoolboy societies where they do
very improper things, but that never happened in their society. But he didn't say what. I said,
the stripping naked seems to me awful; but he said, Oh, that's nothing, that must happen if
we're to trust one another, it's all right as long as there's nothing improper. I wish I knew
what. I wish I knew whether Oswald knows about it, and whether he is in such a society or in
a proper one and whether Father was in one. If I could only find out. But I can't ask, for
if I did I should betray Robert. When he sees me he always presses my left wrist without letting
anyone see. He said that is the warning to me to be silent. But he needn't do that really,
for I never would betray him whatever happened. He said: The pain is to bind you to me. When
he says that his eyes grow dark, quite black, although his eyes are really grey and they get
very large. Especially in the evening when we say goodbye, it frightens me. I'm always dreaming
of him.

August 18th. Yesterday evening we had illuminations in honour of the emperor's birthday. We
didn't get home until half past twelve. At first we went to a concert in the park and to the
illuminations. They fired salutes from the hills and there were beacons flaring on the hill-tops;
it was rather creepy although it was wonderful. My teeth chattered once or twice, I don't know
whether I was afraid something would happen or why it was. Then R. came and talked such a lot.
He is set on going into the army. For that he needn't learn so much, and what he's learning
now is of no use to him. He says that doesn't matter, that knowledge will give him a great
pull. I don't think he looks stupid, though Oswald says so to make me angry. All at once we
found ourselves quite away from the others and so we sat on a bench to wait for them. Then
I asked R. once more about the other societies, the ones in which they do such improper things.
But he wouldn't tell me for he said he would not rob me of my innocence. I thought that very
stupid, and I said that perhaps he didn't know himself and it was all put on. All that happened,
he said, was that anyone who joined the society was tickled until he couldn't stand it any
longer. And once one of them got St. Vitus's dance, that is frightful convulsions and they
were afraid that everything would come out. And since then in their society no more tickling
had been allowed. Shall I tickle you a little? I don't understand you, I said, and anyhow you
daren't.

He gave a great laugh and suddenly he seized me and tickled me under the arm. It made me want
to laugh frightfully, but I stifled it for there were still lots of people going by. So he
gave that up and tickled my hand. I liked it at first, but then I got angry and dragged my
hand away. Just then Inspee went by with two other girls and directly they had passed us we
followed close behind as if we had been walking like that all the time. It saved me a wigging
from Mother, for she always wants us all to keep together. As we went along R. said: Look out,
Gretel, I'm going to tickle you some day until you scream.--How absurd, I won't have it, it
takes two to do that.

By the way, in the raffle I won a vase with 2 turtledoves and a bag of sweets and R. won a
knife, fork and spoon. That annoyed him frightfully. Inspee won a fountain pen, just what I
want, and a mirror which makes one look a perfect fright. A good job too, for she fancies herself
such a lot.

August 29th. O dear, such an awful thing has happened. I have lost pages 30 to 34 from my diary.
I must have left them in the garden, or else on the Louisenhohe. It's positively fiendish.
If anyone was to find them. And I don't know exactly what there was on those pages. I was born
to ill luck. If I hadn't promised Hella to write my diary every day I should like to give up
the whole thing. Fancy if Mother were to get hold of it, or even Father. And it's raining so
fearfully to-day that I can't even go into the garden and still less on the Louisenhohe above
all not alone. I must have lost it the day before yesterday, for I didn't write anything yesterday
or the day before. It would be dreadful if anyone were to find it. I am so much upset that
I couldn't eat anything at dinner, although we had my favourite chocolate cream cake. And I'm
so unhappy for Father was quite anxious and Mother too and they both asked what was the matter
with me and I nearly burst out crying before everyone. We had dinner in the hotel to-day because
Resi had gone away for 2 days. But I couldn't cry in the room before Father and Mother for
that would have given the show away. My only hope is that no one will recognise my writing,
for Hella and I use upright writing for our diary, first of all so that no one may recognise
our writing and secondly because upright writing doesn't use up so much paper as ordinary writing.
I do hope it will be fine to-morrow so that I can hunt in the garden very early. I have been
utterly in the dumps all day so that I didn't even get cross when Inspee said: "Have you been
quarrelling with your future husband?"

August 30th. It's not in the garden. I begged Mother to let us go to Louisenhutte this afternoon.
Mother was awfully nice and asked what I was so worried about, and whether anything had happened.
Then I couldn't keep it in any longer and burst out crying. Mother said I must have lost something,
and this gave me an awful fright. Mother thought it was Hella's letter, the one which came
on Tuesday, so I said: No, much worse than that, my diary. Mother said: Oh well, that's not
such a terrible loss, and will be of no interest to anyone. Oh yes, I said, for there are all
sorts of things written in it about R. and his society. Look here, Gretel, said Mother, I don't
like this way you talk about R.; I really don't like you to spend all your time with the Warths;
they're really not our sort and R. is not a fit companion for you; now that you are going to
the high school you are not a little girl any longer. Promise me that you'll not be eternally
with the Warths.--All right, Mother, I will break it off gradually so that nobody will notice.
She burst out laughing and kissed me on both cheeks and promised me to say nothing to Inspee
about the diary for she needn't know everything. Mother is such a dear. Still 3 hours and perhaps
the pages are still there.

Evening. Thank goodness! In front of the shelter I found 2 pages all pulped by the rain and
the writing all run and one page was in the footpath quite torn. Someone must have trodden
on it with the heel of his boot and 2 pages had been rolled into a spill and partly burned.
So no one had read anything. I am so happy. And at supper Father said: I say, why are your
eyes shining with delight? Have you won the big prize in the lottery? and I pressed Mother's
foot with mine to remind her not to give me away and Father laughed like anything and said:
Seems to me there's a conspiracy against me in my own house. And I said in a great hurry: Luckily
we're not in our own house but in a hotel, and everyone laughed and now thank goodness it's
all over. Live and learn. I won't let that happen again.

August 31st. Really I'm not so much with the W's and with R. I think he's offended. This afternoon,
when I went there to tea, he seized me by the wrist and said: Your father is right, you're
a witch. "You need a castigation." How rude of him. Besides, I didn't know what castigation
meant. I asked Father and he told me and asked where I had picked up the word. I said I had
passed 2 gentlemen and had heard one of them use it. What I really thought was that castigation
meant tickling. But it is really horrid to have no one to talk to. Most of the people have
gone already and we have only a week longer. About that castigation business. I don't like
fibbing to Father, but I really had to. I couldn't say that R. wanted to give me a castigation
when I didn't know what it meant. Dora tells a lot more lies than I do and I always love catching
her in a lie for her lies are so obvious. I'm never caught. It only happened once when Frau
Oberst von Stary was there. Father noticed that time, for he said: You little rogue, you tarradiddler!

September 3rd. Such a horrid thing has happened. I shall never speak to R. again. Oswald is
quite right in calling him a cad. If I had really fallen out of the swing I might have broken
my leg 4 days before we have to start from home. I can't make out how it all happened. It was
frightful cheek of him to tickle me as he did, and I gave him such a kick. I think it was on
his nose or his mouth. Then he actually dared to say: After all I'm well paid out, for what
can one expect when one keeps company with such young monkeys, with such babies. Fine talk
from him when he's not 14 himself yet. It was all humbug about his being 15 and he seems to
be one of the idlest boys in the school, never anything but Satisfactory in his reports, and
he's not in the fifth yet, but only in the fourth. Anyhow, we've settled our accounts. Cheeky
devil. I shall never tell anyone about it, it will be my first and I hope my last secret from
Hella.

September 6th. We are going home to-morrow. The last few days have been awfully dull. I saw
R. once or twice but I always looked the other way. Father asked what was wrong between me
and the Warths and R., so that our great friendship had been broken off. Of course I had to
fib, for it was absolutely impossible to tell the truth. I said that R. found fault with everything
I did, my writing, my reading aloud. (That's quite true, he did that once) and Father said:
Well, well, you'll make it up when you say goodbye to-morrow. Father makes a great mistake.
I'll never speak a word to him again.

For her birthday, although it's not come yet, Dora is to have a navy blue silk dustcloak. I
don't think the colour suits her, and anyhow she's much too thin to wear a dustcloak.

September 14th. Hella came back the day before yesterday. She looks splendid and she says I
do too. I'm so glad that she's back. After all I told her about R. She was very angry and said
I ought to have given him 2 more; one for the tickling and one for the "baby" and one for the
"young monkey." If we should happen to meet him, shan't we just glare at him.

September 17th. Inspee has really got the silk dustcloak but I think the tartan hood looks
rather silly. Still, I didn't say so, but only that the cloak fitted beautifully. She has tried
it on at least five times already. I don't know whether Father really wants to treat her as
a grown-up lady or whether he is making fun of her. I believe he's only making fun. She doesn't
really look like a grown-up lady. How could she when she's not 14 yet? Yesterday afternoon
such a lot of girls were invited, and of course Hella was invited on my account and we had
a grand talk. But most of them bragged frightfully about the country where they said they had
been. We were 9 girls. But Hella is the only one I care about.

September 21st. School begins to-morrow. By the way, we have agreed to call it Liz [Lyzeum
= High School] and not School. I'm frightfully curious.

September 22nd, 19--. School began to-day. Hella came to fetch me and we went along together.
Inspee peached on us to Mother, saying we ran on in front of her. We don't want her as governess.
There are 34 of us in the class. Our teachers are a Frau Doktor, 2 mistresses, one professor,
and I think a drawing mistress as well. The Frau Doktor teaches German and writing. She put
us together on the 3rd bench. Then she made a speech, then she told us what books to get, but
we are not to buy them till Monday. We have 3 intervals, one long and 2 short. The long one
is for games, the short ones to go out. I usen't to go out at the elementary school and now
I don't need to. Mother always says that it's only a bad habit. Most of the girls went out,
and even asked to leave the room during lesson time. To-day we hadn't any proper lessons. They
are to begin to-morrow, but we don't know what. Then we came home.

September 23rd. To-day we had the mistress who teaches geography and history, she has no degree.
Inspee says that she had her last year, but she could not stand her, she's so ugly. Father
was angry and said to Inspee: You silly goose, don't fill her head with such stuff. Show what
you are worth as elder sister. One can learn something from every mistress and every master
if one likes. But I can't say, we're really fond of Fraulein Vischer and I don't much care
for geography and history. Besides I'm not learning for her but for myself. Frau Dr. Mallburg
is awfully nice and pretty. We shall always write Frau Dr. M. for short. When she laughs she
has two dimples and a gold stopping. She is new at the school. I don't know if we are to have
singing too. In French we have Madame Arnau, she is beautifully dressed, black lace. Hella
has a lovely pen and pencil case; it's quite soft, we must have it soft so that it shan't make
a row when it falls down during lesson time. I think it cost 7 crowns or 1.70 crowns, I don't
know exactly. To-day lessons went on until 12, first German, then arithmetic, then religion
for Catholics, and then we came away. Hella waited for me, for the Herr Pastor did not come.

September 24th. We thought the book shops would be open to-day but we were wrong. Hella's mother
said, that's what happens when the chicks think themselves wiser than the hens. In the afternoon
Hella came to our house and Inspee had been invited by the Fs. I don't go there, for it's so
dull, they play the piano all day. I have enough piano at my lessons. My music lessons will
begin when the school time-table has been fixed up. Perhaps on October 1st, then I must write
to Frau B., she told me to write myself. She tells all her pupils to do that. I would rather
have had Hella's music mistress. But she has no time to spare and I think she charges more.
At least she wouldn't always be holding me up "Fraulein Dora" as a model. We are not all so
musical as Fraulein Dora. In the evening Inspee was reading a great fat book until 10 or 12
o clock and she simply howled over it. She said she had not, but I heard her and she could
hardly speak. She says she had a cold, liar.

September 25th. To-day they gave us the professors' time-table, but it won't work until the
professors from the Gymnasium know exactly when they can come. Our Frau Doktor might be teaching
in a Gymnasium, but since there is only one here she teaches in our school. To-morrow we are
going to have a viva voce composition: Our Holidays. We may write 8 or 10 sentences at home
before we come, but we must not look at what we have written in class. I've written mine already.
But I've not said anything about Robert. He's not worth thinking about anyhow. I did not even
tell Hella everything.

September 25th. We had the viva voce composition and Frau Doktor said, very good, what is your
name? Grete Lainer I said and she said: And is that your chum next you? Now she must tell us
how she spent her holidays. Hella did hers very well too and Frau Doktor said again, very good.
Then the bell rang. In the long interval Frau Doktor played dodge with us. It was great fun.
I was it six times. In the little intervals we were quite alone for the staff has such a lot
to do drawing up the time-table. A pupil-teacher from the F. high school is in our class. She
sits on the last bench for she is very tall. As tall as Frau Doktor.

September 26th. To-day we had Professor Riegel for the first time in natural history. He wears
eye-glasses and never looks any of us in the face. And in French Madame A. said that my accent
was the best. We've got an awful lot on and I don't know whether I shall be able to write every
day. The younger girls say Professor Igel instead of Riegel and the Weinmann girl said Nikel.

September 30th. I've had simply no time to write. Hella hasn't written anything since the 24th.
But I must write to-day for I met Robert in Schottengasse. Good morning, Miss, you needn't
be so stuck up, he said as he went by. And when I turned round he had already passed, or I
would have given him a piece of my mind. I must go to supper.

October 1st. I can't write, Oswald has come from S., he has sprained his ankle, but I'm not
so sure because he can get about. He is awfully pale and doesn't say a word about the pain.

October 4th. To-day is a holiday, the emperor's birthday. Yesterday Resi told me something
horrid. Oswald can't go back to S. He has been up to something, I wish I knew what, perhaps
something in the closet. He always stays there such a long time, I noticed that when I was
in the country. Or perhaps it may have been something in his society. Inspee pretends she knows
what it is but of course it isn't true, for she doesn't know any more than I do. Father is
furious and Mother's eyes are all red with crying. At dinner nobody says a word. If I could
only find out what he's done. Father was shouting at him yesterday and both Dora and I heard
what he said: You young scamp (then there was something we couldn't understand) and then he
said, you attend to your school books and leave the girls and the married women alone you pitiful
scoundrel. And Dora said. Ah, now I understand and I said: Please tell me, he is my brother
as well as yours. But she said: "You wouldn't understand. It's not suitable for such young
ears." Fancy that, it's suitable for her ears, but not mine though she's not quite three years
older than I am, but because she no longer wears a short skirt she gives herself the airs of
a grown-up lady. Such airs, and then she sneaks a great spoonful of jam so that her mouth is
stuffed with it and she can't speak. Whenever I see her do this, I make a point of speaking
to her so that she has to answer. She does get in such a wax.

October 9th. I know all about it now. . . That's how babies come. And that is what Robert really
meant. Not for me, thank you, I simply won't marry. For if one marries one has to do it; it
hurts frightfully and yet one has to. What a good thing that I know it in time. But I wish
I knew exactly how, Hella says she doesn't know exactly herself. But perhaps her cousin who
knows everything about it will tell her. It lasts nine months till the baby comes and then
a lot of women die. It's horrible. Hella has known it for a long time but she didn't like to
tell me. A girl told her last summer in the country. She wanted to talk about it to Lizzi her
sister, really she only wanted to ask if it was all true and Lizzi ran off to her mother to
tell her what Hella had said And her mother said; "These children are awful, a corrupt generation,
don't you dare to repeat it to any other girl, to Grete Lainer, for instance," and she gave
her a box on the ear. As if she could help it! That is why she didn't write to me for such
a long time. Poor thing, poor thing, but now she can tell me all about it and we won't betray
one another. And that deceitful cat Inspee has known all about it for ages and has never told
me. But I don't understand why that time at the swing Robert said: You little fool, you wont
get a baby simply from that. Perhaps Hella knows. When I go to the gymnastic lesson to-morrow
I shall talk to her first and ask her about it. My goodness how curious I am to know.

October 10th. I'm in a great funk, I missed my gymnastic lesson yesterday. I was upstairs at
Hella's and without meaning it I was so late I did not dare to go. And Hella said I had better
stay with her that we would say that our sum was so difficult that we had not got it finished
in time. Luckily we really had a sum to do. But I said nothing about it at home, for to-morrow
Oswald is going to G. to Herr S's. I thought that I knew all about it but only now has Hella
really told me everything. It's a horrible business this . . . I really can't write it. She
says that of course Inspee has it already, had it when I wrote that Inspee wouldn't bathe,
did not want to bathe; really she had it. Whatever happens one must always be anxious about
it. Streams of blood says Hella. But then everything gets all bl . . . That's why in the country
Inspee always switched off the light before she was quite undressed, so that I couldn't see.
Ugh! Catch me looking! It begins at 14 and goes on for 20 years or more. Hella says that Berta
Franke in our class knows all about it. In the arithmetic lesson she wrote a note: Do you know
what being un . . . is? Hella wrote back, of course I've known it for a long time. Berta waited
for her after class when the Catholics were having their religion lesson and they went home
together. I remember quite well that I was very angry, for they're not chums. On Tuesday Berta
came with us, for Hella had sent her a note in class saying that I knew everything and she
needn't bother about me. Inspee suspects something, she's always spying about and sneering,
perhaps she thinks that she's the only person who ought to know anything.

October 16th. To-morrow is Father's and Dora's birthday. Every year it annoys me that Dora
should have her birthday on the same day as Father; What annoys me most of all is that she
is so cocky about it, for, as Father always says, it's a mere chance. Besides, I don't think
he really likes it. Everyone wants to have their own birthday on their own day, not to share
it with someone else. And it's always nasty to be stuck up about a thing like that. Besides,
it's not going to be a real birthday because of the row about Oswald. Father is still furious
and had to stay away from the office for 2 days because he had to go to G. to see about Oswald
going there.

October 17th. It was much jollier to-day than I had expected. All the Bruckners came, so of
course there was not much said about Oswald only that he has sprained his ankle, (I know quite
well now that that's not true) and that he is probably going to G. Colonel B. said: The best
thing for a boy is to send him to a military academy, that keeps him in order. In the evening
Oswald said: That was awful rot what Hella's father said, for you can be expelled from a military
academy just as easily as from the Gymnasium. That's what happened to Edgar Groller. Oswald
gave himself away and Dora promptly said: Ah, so you have been expelled, and we believed you
had sprained your ankle. Then he got in an awful wax and said: O you wretched flappers, I've
gone and blabbed it all now, and he went away slamming the door, for Mother wasn't there.

October 19th. If we could only find out what Oswald really did. It must have been something
with a girl. But we can't think what Father meant about a married woman. Perhaps a married
woman complained of him to the head master or to the school committee and that's how it all
came out. I feel awfully sorry for him, for I think how I should have felt myself if everything
had come out about Robert and me. Of course I don't care now. But in the summer it would have
been awful. Oswald hardly says a word, except that he has talks with Mother sometimes. He always
pretends that he wants to read, but it's absurd, for with such a love trouble one can't really
read. I have not told Berta Franke all about it, but only that my brother has had an unhappy
love affair and that is why he is back in Vienna. Then she told us that this summer a cousin
of hers shot himself because of her. They said in the newspapers that it was because of an
actress, but really it was because of her. She is 14 already.

October 20th. We spend most of our time now with Berta Franke. She says she has had a tremendous
lot of experience, but she can't tell us yet because we are not intimate enough. By and by
she says. Perhaps she is afraid we shall give her away. She wants to marry when she is 16 at
latest. That's in 2 years. Of course she won't have finished school by then, but she will have
left the third class. She has three admirers, but she has not yet made up her mind which to
choose. Hella says I mustn't believe all this, that the story about the three admirers at once
is certainly a cram.

October 21st. Berta Franke says that when one is dark under the eyes one has it and that when
one gets a baby then one doesn't have it any more until one gets another. She told us too how
one gets it, but I didn't really believe what she said, for I thought she did not know herself
exactly. Then she got very cross and said: "All right, I won't tell you any more. If I don't
know myself." But I can't believe what she said about husband and wife. She said it must happen
every night, for if not they don't have a baby; if they miss a single night they don't have
a baby. That's why they have their beds so close together. People call them marriage beds!!!
And it hurts so frightfully that one can hardly bear it. But one has to for a husband can make
his wife do it. I should like to know how he can make her. But I didn't dare to ask for I was
afraid she would think I was making fun of her. Men have it too, but very seldom. We see a
lot of Berta Franke now, she is an awfully nice girl, perhaps Mother will let me invite her
here next Sunday.

October 23rd. Father took Oswald away to-day. Mother cried such a lot. When Oswald was leaving
I whispered to him: I know what's the matter with you. But he did not understand me for he
said: Silly duffer. Perhaps he only said that because of Father who was looking on with a fearful
scowl.

October 27th. Everything seems to have gone wrong. Yesterday I got unsatisfactory in history,
and in arithmetic to-day I couldn't get a single sum right. I'm frightfully worried about missing
that gymnastic lesson. It will be all right if Mother gives me the money to-morrow, for if
she goes herself she will certainly find out about it.

October 28th. To-day the head mistress was present at our French lesson and said awfully nice
things about me. She said I was good enough in French to be in the Third and then she asked
me whether I was as good in the other subjects. I didn't want to say either Yes or No, and
all the other girls said Yes, she's good at everything. The head patted me on the shoulder
and said: I'm glad to hear that. When she had gone I cried like anything and Madame Arnau asked:
Why, what's the matter? and the other girls said: In arithmetic she had Unsatisfactory but
she can really do her sums awfully well. Then Madame said: "You'll soon wipe off that Unsatisfactory."

October 30th. To-day I had a frightful bother with Fraulein Vischer in the history lesson.
Yesterday when I got into the tram with Mother there was Fraulein V. I looked the other way
so that Mother shouldn't see her and so that she should not tell Mother about me. When she
came in to-day she said: Lainer, do you know the rules? I knew directly what she meant and
said "I did bow to you in the tram but you didn't see me." "That's a fine thing to do, first
you do wrong and then try to excuse yourself by telling a lie. Sit down!" I felt awful for
all the girls looked at me. In the 11 interval Berta Franke said to me: Don't worry, she's
got her knife into you and will always find something to complain of. She must have spoken
to Frau Doktor M., for in the German lesson the subject for viva voce composition was Good
Manners. And all the girls looked at me again. She didn't say anything more. She's a perfect
angel, my darling E. M., her name is Elisabeth; but she does not keep her name-day because
she's a Protestant; that's an awful shame because November 19th is coming soon.

October 31st. I've been so lucky. Nothing's come out about the gymnastic lesson though Mother
was there herself. And in mental arithmetic to-day I got a One. Fraulein Steiner is awfully
nice too and she said: Why, L. what was the matter with you in your sums the other day, for
you're so good at arithmetic? I didn't know what to do so I said: Oh I had such a headache
the other day. Then Berta Franke nearly burst out laughing, it was horrid of her; I don't think
she's quite to be trusted; I think she's rather a sneak. When the lesson was over she said
she had laughed because "headache" means something quite different.

November 1st. To-day we began to work at the tablecloth for Father's Christmas present. Of
course Inspee bagged the right side because that's easier to work at and I had to take the
left side and then one has the whole caboodle on one's hand. For Mother I'm making an embroidered
leather book cover, embroidered with silk and with a painted design; I can do the painting
part at school in Fraulein H.'s lesson, she's awfully nice too. But I like Frau Doktor M. best
of all. I'm not going to invite Berta Franke because of the way she laughed yesterday, and
besides Mother doesn't like having strange girls to the house. November 2nd. I don't know all
about things yet. Hella knows a lot more. We said we were going to go over our natural history
lesson together and we went in to the drawing-room, and there she told me a lot more. Then
Mali, our new servant, came in, and she told us something horrid. Resi is in a hospital because
she's ill. Mali told us that all the Jews when they are quite little have to go through a very
dangerous operation; it hurts frightfully and that's why they are so cruel. It's done so that
they can have more children; but only little boys, not little girls. It's horrid, and I should
not like to marry a Jew. Then we asked Mali whether it is true that it hurts so frightfully
and she laughed and said: It can't be so bad as all that, for if it were you wouldn't find
everyone doing it. Then Hella asked her: But have you done it already, you haven't got a husband?
She said: Go on, Miss! One mustn't ask such questions it's not ladylike. We were in an awful
funk, and begged her not to tell Mother. She promised not to.

November 5th. Everything has come out through that stupid waist band. Yesterday when I was
tidying my drawers Mali came in to make the beds and saw my fringed waistband. "I say, she
said, that is pretty!" You can have it if you like, I said, for I've given up wearing it. At
dinner yesterday I noticed that Mother was looking at Mali and I blushed all over. After dinner
Mother said, Gretel, did you give Mali that waistband? Yes, I said, she asked me for it. She
came in at that moment to clear away and said: "No, I never asked for it, Fraulein Grete gave
it to me herself." I don't know what happened after that, I'd gone back to my room when Mother
came in and said: A fine lot of satisfaction one gets out of one's children. Mali has told
me the sort of things you and Hella talk about. I ran straight off to the kitchen and said
to Mali: How could you tell such tales of us? It was you who chipped in when we were talking.
It was frightfully mean of you. In the evening she must needs go and complain of me to Father
and he scolded me like anything and said: You're a fine lot, you children, I must say. You
are not to see so much of Hella now, do you understand?

November 6th. A fine thing this, that I'm a silly fool now. When I gave Hella a nudge so that
she should not go on talking before Mali, she laughed and said: What does it matter, Mali knows
all about it, probably a great deal more than we do. It was only after that that Mali told
us about the Jews. Now, if you please, I am a silly fool. All right, now that I know what I
am, a silly fool. And that's what one's best friend calls one!

