Transcriber's note:

   The original spelling, hyphenation, and capitalization have been
   retained. However, long s's have been transcribed as modern s's,
   and minor punctuation corrections have been made.

   The oe ligature is represented as [oe].

THE TRUE

LIFE

OF

Betty IRELAND.

[Price a British Sixpence.]

THE TRUE

LIFE

OF

Betty IRELAND.

WITH

Her BIRTH, EDUCATION, and ADVENTURES.

Together with

Some Account of her elder Sister BLANCH of BRITAIN.

Containing,

Sundry very curious Particulars.

LONDON, Printed:

DUBLIN, Reprinted for PETER WILSON, in Dame-street. MDCCLIII.

THE TRUE

LIFE

OF

Betty IRELAND.

It is agreed on all Hands, that Betty Ireland was a younger Daughter by a second Venter; let,
at first, to run wild in the Woods, cloathed with Skins and fed with Acorns; till a famous
Hunter took her in his Toils, and, liking her Countenance, gave her to a Son of his, a Lad,
to bring up. The Girl was born to a good Estate, but ill tenanted, and run to waste. Her Farms
neither meared or bounded, her Rents never paid, as she had no certain Tenants, and had little
more to claim than a Pepper-corn Acknowledgment. She had no Relation to manage her Demesnes,
and could hardly be said to be possessed of any thing.

In this Condition the young Sportsman found her, was fond of her at first, and resolved to
marry her; and happy had it been both for him and her, if he had kept his Resolution, and performed
the Contract. But he hankered after his elder Brother's Estate, and, on his Death, suddenly
got the Tenants to attorn to him, and basely dispossessed his Nephew. But instead of an Estate,
he got nothing but a Law-suit, lived in Broils, and dyed a Beggar. Whereas had he quitted all
Pretensions at home, married Betty and minded her Concerns, he had soon been in a Condition
not to envy his Brother; and, perhaps, had left a second Family little inferior in Greatness
to the first.

This was the only Chance ever Betty had to make a separate Fortune, set up for herself, and
be independent of her Sister. She was ever after beholden to her for maintaining her Rights,
settling her Affairs, and bringing her Tenants to Reason.

Neither Betty or her Sister were yet of Age, but the Younger far from it, and continued under
such Guardians, as the Elder recommended, and had chosen for herself. It was natural to think
they should chiefly be employed in ordering the Affairs of Blanch, and be less attentive to
benefit the other. Accordingly, from time to time, they sent Proxies, to let Leases, keep her
Courts, and force Possession, where the Tenants held over. Little, however, was done for Betty,
though they put her Sister to great Charges; nor did she thrive in the World to any Purpose,
'till she came under the Care of a good orderly Gentlewoman, who was also Guardian to Blanch,
a notable Manager, and very affectionate to her Wards, understood their Business to a hair,
and was never to be imposed on or over-reached. Every thing she put her hand to prospered,
and every thing against her miscarried.

When she first looked into Betty's Affairs, she found them in a manner desperate; her small
Revenues had been embezzled by Agents, Farms set to insolvent Tenants, double Leases made out,
huge Fines taken in Hand and sunk in their own Pockets. She was preyed upon by Vagabonds and
Outlaws; and, to compleat her Misfortunes, a Foreign Count fell in love with her, an odious
Monster and braggadocio Huffer. He swore bitterly no one else should have her, and to support
his Claim, brought in his Pocket, a pretended Licence from the Spiritual Court, and a Pack
of outlandish Goths along with him, to take Possession of her Freehold, and break down her
Gates. But her Sister generously came in to her Assistance, repelled Force by Force, and rescued
her from a Tyrant Ravisher, built Houses for herself, and Fences for the Tenants, and left
some of her own People with her to instruct them in Trades and Husbandry.

She was then, it might be thought, in a Way of making herself respected, both by her own and
her Sister's Tenants, and not stand in need of any more Supplies from them; and if the good
Woman, her guardian, had lived to bring Matters to any Kind of Establishment, Things had been
better. But she unfortunately died, more, however, to her Sister's Disadvantage than hers;
for the Guardian had chalked out a Track of Proceeding for Betty, which she could hardly miss
to follow. The Elder, however, was inconsolable for the Loss of her Guardian, and resolved,
for the future, to manage her Concerns by the Assistance of a Steward, a Sort of a Cousin to
her Guardian deceased, but no way allied to her, in Worth or Understanding. He minded nothing
but Hunting and Puppet-shews, Feasts and Revels; and though the uncomeliest of an ill-favoured
Race, spent his Lady's Money in adorning his own Person, instead of fencing her Grounds. He
was laughed at by one half of the Neighbours, and despised and gulled by the other. In a Word,
he was every Way unfit for the Charge.

His Son succeeded to the Place; he was a grave-looking, orderly young Man, main religious,
and skilled in the Customs of the Manor. Both the Sisters had great Hopes their Affairs would
thrive under his Management. Betty's, indeed, went on well for a while; but, in the End, both
of them had Cause to complain, and curse the Day they had bethought them of employing a Steward
in their Concerns. He was not so great a Fool as his Father; yet nothing he put his Hand to
succeeded. He was bubbled by every Neighbour he dealt with, and choused by every Tenant he
trusted. His Word could never be relied on, as he had always some quibble to evade it. His
Wife made him hated by the Tenants; and for a finishing Stroke to his undoing, and compleat
the Ruin of his Wards, he pretended the Steward had a Right to hold Courts without Juries,
and by his own Authority levy Money for Repairs. The Tenants would not endure this Invasion
on their Rights, but stoutly opposed it; and, after a hard Struggle, got the better, turned
him out of the Stewardship, and some of them finding him one Day at a why-not, tied him to
a Rope, and hanged him in a Frolick.

The Office of a Steward was now abolished for a Time, and the elder Sister resolved to take
her Affairs entirely into her own Hands, and have neither Steward or Guardian for the future.
The Condition, indeed, of both was deplorable. There had been nothing during the late Quarrel,
but Riot and Plunder, Rents unpaid, and Soldiers quartered at Discretion; so that, in order
to retrieve their Affairs, it seemed necessary to put things on a new Footing, and trust none
but themselves to manage them. But whatever they intended mattered but little.

Among the Soldiers quartered on them was a bustling Knave, who from a Corporal had come to
be a Captain. He was bold as a Lion, and crafty as a Fox. He had cajoled his Soldiers to stand
by him; and pretending Compassion for the Sisters, offered, or rather forced himself, to be
their Guardian. They only complied because they could not help it; and he took more rule over
them, than ever Steward or Guardian had done before him.

He seemed, indeed, to mend Matters in the Beginning, but, in reality, did unrepairable Damage
to Blanch, though considerable Services to Betty. The Neighbours all around thought they were
thriving apace, and began to envy their Greatness. The Reason of which was, that he always
took care to have the Girls well dressed, especially when they went a visiting, and sent Word
before-hand (for he was d----d proud) that all the World should Cap to them as they passed
along. He stinted them in every thing else, but spent all he could rap and run to make them
fine. Betty was bashful, and kept pretty much at home; but when Blanch went abroad, she made
a flaming Appearance, held up her Head among the Highest, and insulted the Proudest with her
Braveries.

But all the while Things were but uncomfortable at home, though she made such a tearing Figure
when abroad. Nothing to be had for Farms, by reason the Soldiers put in and out as they pleased.
No Leets or Manor Courts were minded. No taxing for Repairs and Bounds, but the Soldiers taxed
for Contingencies as much Money as they could hear any one had. So that the Tenants found themselves
in a worse Pickle than ever they had been under the Management of a Steward. They longed for
Courts and Inquests, and to have every thing set on the old Bottom again.

They heard of a poor Boy, a Son of the late Steward's, who had run away from the Lands the
Time his Father was hanged, and was now grown up to Years of Discretion. As he had bit a good
while on the Bridle, they thought he might be tamed, more careful than his Father, and do them
more Justice and Kindness. They brought him home in a Hurry; and, as it's natural to run from
one Extreme to another, were sure they were all made when they got him into the Stewardship.

It must be owned, he was a pleasant, good-humoured Fellow as ever broke Bread, civilly behaved,
and by no means wanted Capacity for the Business. But he was idle to a Degree, followed W----ng
and Horse-racing; and provided he could borrow Money enough from the Tenants, or get Presents
from the Neighbours, to treat his Wenches and buy them Top-knots, never heeded how Accounts
were settled, how he held the Courts, or how he paid the Servants. Farm-houses went to decay,
and Strangers forestalled the Markets. Few People, however, could find in their Heart to hate
him. They had a Love for him, though he was daily undoing them: For it was always their Humour
to like a boon Companion; and instead of crossing his Prodigality, they followed his Example,
wh----ed it away from the highest to the lowest, revelled and caroused for dear Blood, and
were never better pleased than when the last Penny was a going. It became a Fashion to be Bankrupt;
to be Rich, was to lose all Credit; and to be Just, was the Mark of a Scoundrel.

But though the elder Sister was well-nigh undone by him, he did a good Turn by Betty, and sent
one of his Cousins to take care of her Concerns, who had a good Farm of his own under her,
and was well-beloved over the whole Estate. He kept Leet and Court-Baron, presented Vagabonds
at the Sessions, and gave Rewards for apprehending Out-laws. He set the Tenants to Work, lived
constantly among them, and looked himself into every thing. Betty began to thrive, and was
less expensive to her Sister, who had wasted huge Sums to keep her Head above Water. She stuck
to Business, and prospered mainly, 'till the Steward's Brother got himself into the Place,
who played H----ll with every thing, and brought the two Sisters to the Brink of Ruin.

He was rash, senseless, obstinate, and ill-minded; none of the Neighbours would deal with him,
or the Tenants trust him, as there was no believing one Word he said, or promise that he made;
for he had taken an Oath when he was young never to speak Truth. He began his Vagaries by putting
the Curate in the Stocks, for refusing to teach a new Catechism of his own Invention. He entered
into a Plot to secure the Elder Sister in the House of Correction, and make her do Penance
in the Church, under Pretence of Carnal Conversation. He agreed to sell Betty to a Cousin of
his, a great Lord in the Neighbourhood, who longed to have her for a Waiting-woman to his Wife.
So the Tenants made short Work with him, rose one and all, and sent him a-packing to his Cousin,
where he was fain to be a Serving-man, since he could not send Betty to be a Serving-maid.

Both the Sisters took an Oath never more to have a Steward again, and to abolish the very Name
from among them, with a reserve to his Daughters, who had married abroad, and were good sort
of Women, in their Way.

Here it was that both the Sisters had their Affairs put on a sure and lasting Footing. The
Rights of the Tenants were narrowly examined, and all pretended Powers of the Steward abolished
by a Rule on the Court Manor Books. There was, indeed, some Difficulty in bringing it about,
and a power of Money laid out on the Occasion. But it was well bestowed had it been twice as much.

There was a Stripling among the neighbouring Fens, who had married a Daughter of the Steward's,
and had got the best Estate there by the Diligence of his Ancestors, who were the principal
Engineers in draining and banking the Country. They had often borrowed Money from Blanch to
carry on the Work, to stem the Water when the Fen-men were in despair, and prevailed on her
to send a strong Posse of her Tenants to keep off some malicious Neighbours, who would ever
and anon be boring Holes in the Dikes, and endangered the Overflowing of all the Land they
had gained. If ever these wretched People shewed any thing that looked like Gratitude, it was
to the Family of their Engineers; and this young Man improved it to his own Advantage, and
that of Blanch, whom he acknowledged the Preserver of the Fen-men, who deserved Preservation
on no other Account than to make them Pack-horses and Carriers. They were, indeed, a middle
Species between Men and Brutes, and chiefly compounded of the latter. But this young Adventurer
had got the Ascendant over them, and, as we ordinarily say of vicious Horses, had made the
D----l come out of them. He ringed them by the Nose, and bled them with the Spur, and so throughly
broke them (for he was a special Horseman) that they never kicked or plunged when he was in
the Saddle; but, as the Nature of Beasts is, became the fonder of him the rougher he handled them.

When he understood that Blanch and her Sister were so hampered and Tyrannically treated by
the Steward, he came to their Assistance, supplied them with Money, which he raised from the
Fen-men, and fairly set them free from his Oppression and Rapine, reversed his Grants, cancelled
his sham Leases, restored Possessions, Leets and Manor-Courts, made up Fences for the Tenants,
and so strongly secured their Copyholds, that there is no likelihood they will ever be ousted
or much disturbed again. And, to crown all the Services he had done the two Sisters, he recommended
them, before he parted, to the Care of a neighbouring Lord, a Cousin of his own, and a right
honest Man, who proved a Father to them and their People, defended their Rights, and secured
their Properties.

And yet Blanch could never rightly like the Fen-man, as she called him, though he had done
so much for her. She could not comport herself with his Manners and his Humour, hated the Servants
he brought with him, complained they were too costly to her, though she kept them sparingly,
and even quarrelled (so exceptious are Women) to the Cut of their Cloaths, and the Colour of
their Liveries.

But Betty Ireland had more Gratitude than her Sister, adored him while he stayed with her,
and to this Day remembers him as her great Deliverer, the Protector of her Life, and the Founder
of her Fortune.

She, indeed, had double Obligations, as her Condition was more helpless than her Sister's,
and she had more severely felt the Tyranny of the Steward, who, because she could not so readily
complain of him, had first stripped her of all she had, and then sold her to Bondage. But both
Sisters ought surely to reflect, that all the Happiness, and all the Security they have since
enjoyed, has been owing to the Friendships he procured them, when he put them under the Protection
of his Cousins; and that he has effectually banished the Stewards thereby, who would doubtless
otherwise be meddling with their Affairs, and use them worse than ever they did before, as
coming in without Leave, they would act without Controul.

But maugre all these Considerations, Blanch was glad when he left her, and ready to leap out
of her Skin for joy. She thought of nothing but Diversions, spent her Time and Money in visiting
and dressing, ransacked the Globe to set off her Person, and, it must be owned, she never looked
handsomer in her Life. Wherever she went, she was adored as an Angel, surrounded by admiring
Throngs, and Thousands hanging on her Look.

But all this was empty Pageantry and too expensive Glory. She ran herself in Debt to uphold
this Appearance, mortgaged her Estate, and bartered her Stock, for the vain Applause of flattering
Knaves, and scoundrel Tradesmen. It was Time to pull in, and keep a Hank in the Hand. She saw
her Folly, and doffed her Gear. It was better go plain than run in Debt for Finery; and enough
she had to do to pay the Debts she had contracted in her Fit of Vanity.

Betty all the while was minding Business at home, and her Affairs prospered amain. Her Tenants
became industrious, and her Estate improved; yet she never thought herself sufficiently secure
till she got under the new Protection her Deliverer had provided. Her Situation is particular.
She has a strange Mixture of People on her Estate, who are always at Daggers drawing with one
another, and a mighty Hindrance to her Business. They are Whites, Blacks, and Black and White.
The Whites only are allowed to be Land-holders; but the last, by hiding half the Face when
they converse with her, pass for Whites, and make good their Titles. The first are dreadfully
maligned by the Blacks, who are unhappily the more numerous, lay old Claims to her Lands, and
are ever watching for an Opportunity to make a Riot, and take forcible Possession. 'Till now
they were too much favoured by her Sister, which checked the Industry of her Farmers.

But when they found they had nothing to fear, either at home or abroad, they began in earnest
to improve their Concerns, as they were sure they were working for themselves, and in no Danger
of being dispossessed, by Virtue of chimerical Claims, and Antediluvian Proprietors.

The Blacks, indeed, immediately made a Riot on this new Settlement, but could not get Possession;
and, lately, a young Jackanapes pretended a Right to be Steward to both Sisters, by Virtue
of a Patent he had got from the last Steward, as if he had a Right to dispose of a Place he
had been turned out of himself. He came on the Lands, however, with a bloody-minded Crew of
skirtless Vagabonds, drove off the Cattle, robbed the Hen-roosts, and swaggered at so unmerciful
a Rate, that Blanch was frightened out of her Senses, and was fain to send for a Dram of Gin
to restore her Spirits. But if she was frightened, her Guardian was not, and had a Month's
Mind to find out the Varlet in Person, and tread him under his Feet. But as he could not leave
the Hall-house where the Court was sitting, he sent a Lad of his own to take Account of him,
who did the Business tightly. He was a well-mettled Blade, and Steel to the Back. He came up
with him at the Corner of a Farmer's Yard, where he gave him and his Desperados a wofull Drubbing,
kicked him i'the A----e, soused him in the Horse-pond, which he swam over to save his Bacon,
and looked so miserably scared in his Passage, that it's sure he'll never try the Ford again.

For a good while before this Alarm happened (which proved nothing but a Bugbear) both the Sisters
had a fair Opportunity of minding their Concerns, and getting above the World. Blanch might
have paid her Debts, and had Money to the fore; but it was ever her Misfortune to be ill-served
by almost all she employed. Never, sure, had Lady so unhandy a Pack about her, and, indeed,
it was impossible it could well be otherwise; for she did not chuse her Servants because they
were fit for this, or that Office, but because they asked, and would have it, or be horribly
out of Humour else, would make a Noise and Uproar at every Court-Leet, terrify the Tenants
at every Ale-house, with strange Stories of Designs on their Copy-holds, and wicked Plots just
ready to begin; 'till they turned their Heads, and set them madding. So that the poor Lady
was fain to take them in, to keep Peace at Home, and to pay them Wages for not doing her Business.
The Consequence of which was, she had Clerks could neither write or read; Book, and Cash-keepers,
that could not count or cast up, or ever heard of a Ballance in their Lives. And so ridiculous
was her Compliance in this Point, that she had once a Lady to curry her Horse, and a Fishmonger
for a Grass Bailiff.

'Tis true, she would often change her Servants, but not a Barrel the better Herring. If she
got one, by chance, knew any thing of his Business, the rest never left boddering her 'till
they had him out. It should never be said they demeaned themselves so much as to serve with
one, who would spoil every thing by his Rashness, and disgrace the Service by his Ignorance.
Now, by Rashness they meant resenting Insults and Injuries done their Lady; and by Ignorance,
not knowing how to buy and sell, and live by the Loss. So that, all Things considered, it were
a Marvel her Affairs should be in better Plight than they are, or her Debts be paid with more
Ease and Expedition.

Betty, in the mean time, is come to an opulent Fortune, has her Rents well paid, and her Farms
daily improving, and would improve ten times more, if her Sister could see her own Advantage
so far, as to give her that Encouragement she is daily giving to Strangers, who give her nothing
in Return but their Envy and Ill-will. But as it is, Betty's in a good Way, and makes the most
of a bad Market. And since she must not work for her Sister, she works for herself.

It had been a Custom of hers to buy every thing she wanted from her Sister's Tenants and Tradesmen,
though they used her abominably, and put off upon her the worst Goods they had. If the Farmer
had damaged Hops, he sold them to Betty Ireland; if his Malt was blinked, away it went to her;
and the Pothecary thought his decayed Drugs good enough for Betty, and instead of burning them,
laid them by for her, as tho' she were not a Christian, or had the same Inside as her Sister.

Betty could not help this contemptuous Treatment, as she had nothing she wanted at Home, by
reason of her Laziness, though all Materials in abundance were at hand. 'Tis incredible to
relate, but, at the Time I am speaking of, certain Fact, on her whole Estate there was not
one to be found could make a Buckle for her Shoe, or a Pin to her Sleeve; a Pot, a Spit, or
any Utensil to cook her Victuals, might as well be found among the Tartars as with her. She
took every thing from her Sister at what Price she pleased, unsight unseen, and bought the
Pig in the Poke. Necessity roused her from Stupidity and Sloth, she encouraged her Tenants
to apply to Trades, assured them of a ready Market, and rewarded those that did their Work
the best; and, at present, has every thing within herself. And tho' it must be owned a very
unreasonable, and not to be endured Instance of her Impudence, she proposes to dress in her
own Manufactures, and does not mean to trouble her Sister any longer for cast Cloaths and unmerchantable
commodities. But in every other Respect, she desires to keep up a good Correspondence with
her, and is daily doing every thing in her Power, to gain her Favour, and procure her Regards.
Whatever she can spare from her ordinary Expences, she, in some Shape or other, makes a Present
of to her Sister, in Acknowledgement for Services done, and Kindnesses receiv'd in her Minority.
Has Blanch a Favourite whom she cannot readily provide for, a poor Relation on hand, or Retainer
to the Family, a broken Projector, or cast Serving-man; she has no more to do but acquaint
Betty with it, who quickly puts him on a creditable Pension, and never refuses, though she
run herself in Debt by it. Is Blanch engaged in a Brangle with her Tenants, (who, by the way,
are cursedly litigious) and hard put to it for Hands to do her Business, Betty makes an Offer
of sending her People to help her, and maintaining them abroad at her own Charges. Does a Tenant
of Blanch come to favour her with a Visit, she receives him with Hospitality and Respect, and
would sacrifice her Fortune to make his Entertainment agreeable.

If all this Complaisance should fail of its Effect, and not so succeed as to keep Blanch in
good Humour, 'tis easy to say where the Fault must lie, and from what Causes her Discontents arise.

In the first Place, it has ever been the Fate of her Domesticks to be invincibly hated by her
Tenants without Difference or Distinction, (for, to say Truth, they have no Head for Distingo's:)
There is but one Thing in the World they hate more, and that is Betty Ireland. Now, the Servants
bear hard on Betty, to curry Favour with her Sister's Tenants, who would go half Way to the
D----l to have Betty d----d, are for ever cursing her, and laying all their Misfortunes at
her Door. If the Clothier loses his Business, or has his Goods on Hand, 'tis all 'long of Betty:
Wheat bears no Price, for Betty has glutted the Market. Whereas, in Fact, they never keep the
same Markets. But they forget, they are all so idle and debauched, such gobling and drinking
Rascals, and so expensive in blew Beer, that they are forced to put a double Price on every
thing goes to Market; so that no Body will deal with them. Indeed, if it incenses them, that
Betty won't buy, burn her own Goods and take off theirs, they must e'en turn the Buckle behind.
Blanch will be wiser, for her own sake, than lay Stresses on her Sister, from whom she gets
more than by all the World beside, only to humour a Set of grumbling Churls, who don't know
what they would be at; and so extremely senseless, that it's Matter of Wonder, their Oxen don't
ride them to the Market, and sell them. 'Tis true, a Linen-weaver, one of Blanch's Tenants,
prevailed on her lately to withdraw some Encouragement she had given Betty, and transfer it
to a Stranger. But that was owing to bad Advice given her, by a Clerk she has since turned
off, and sent a stroling among Brandy-shops and Ale-houses, to backbite his Lady for want of
other Employment.

Another Cause of Blanch's Dislike to her Sister was, a Fright she took, when she was just delivered,
at some ill-looking People, who came from Betty's Lands, and appeared under her Window. There's
no doubt but Blanch has as much Courage as any genteel Lady ought to have, and must have been
in a Fit of low Spirits when she, and all her Tenants from her, took so senseless an alarm,
as to run distracted thro' Fear of half a Dozen Fellows cutting all their Throats in one Night,
who were ready to run through Fire and Water for Fear of being hang'd themselves; yet certain
it is, from this ridiculous Incident, and from nothing else, can be derived, that universal
Hatred shewn her by Blanch's Tenants, though they have never seen, spoken with, or had any
Dealings whatever, either with Betty or her Tenants. People must be generous, as well as brave,
to forgive those that frighten them.

There's another Cause of Dislike among such as have Dealings with Betty's Tenants who come
on Business, or to visit her Sister, that they run in debt with them, and don't pay. So do
all their Neighbours, for that matter; but they complain of none but Betty, though it is very
well known they make ample Reprisals on her; and one Bite of theirs, is worth a hundred of
Betty's, who are none but such as are despised at home, and can get neither Credit or Company
there; for Betty is not yet arrived to that Degree of Politeness, as to court and caress Highway-men
and Sharpers, only because they keep good Company, and are Gentlemen of nice Honour, but sincerely
wishes her Sister to hang them all.

The last I shall mention (and, to be sure, a wise Cause of Dislike it is) Betty goes once,
at least, every Year to pay her Sister a Visit, carries all her Money, puts on her best Cloaths,
lives high as long as she has a Penny left. This vexes her Sister, and many a Slut and Flirt
she calls Betty, at the very time she is throwing away her Money with both Hands for the Tradesmen
and Shoeboys to scramble up. They are both Fools; One for shewing this Contempt, and the other
for putting herself in the Way of it.

It is wished, but probably in vain, that the two Sisters would come to a better Understanding.
They that have considered the true Interest of both, see plainly that the elder, and consequently
the younger, must be shortly undone, if these Bickerings and ill Offices continue. So unnatural
a Quarrel between near Relations must make them despised by all the Neighbours around, who
are hourly taking the Advantage of it, and profiting themselves by the Hindrance the Sisters
give to each other. But their Manners and Disposition are so different, that it's next to impossible
they should ever love one another; tho', for mutual Interest, and to make that Figure in the
Eye of the World which two Ladies of their Distinction and Fortune ought to assume, their Friends
may agree to promote jointly their Interests, and never heed how peevish and untoward either
of them may be, or pay any Regard to the fanciful Aversions, and ungrounded Jealousies, which
are always inseparable from a female Breast.

Tho' in this History I have rather copied the chaste Brevity of Cornelius Nepos, than the diffused
and chatty Eloquence of Plutarch; I shall conclude, in Imitation of the latter, with a Description
of the two Ladies, their Persons, Manners, and Inclinations; and, in drawing the Parallel,
with Freedom represent, their Vices as well as Vertues, their Faults as well as their Perfections.

Blanch is by much the taller, neat, timbersome, and well made, a lively Look and a sprightly
Air. Betty's Face is full out as handsome as her Sister's, tho' not so regular, has more variety
and striking Beauties, and, with equal Dressing, would appear more lovely than the other; but
she's a Slattern in her Dress.

As to their Tempers, Pride is the prevailing Passion of the first, and Vanity of the second;
from which naturally, and unavoidably arises, every observable Character of their Mind and
Manners. Blanch's Pride makes her selfish and reserved, contemptuous, if not rough, in her
Behaviour. Betty's Vanity makes her open and communicative, fond of shewing herself on all
Occasions, complaisant, and caressing, to a Degree of Flattery. As Blanch does not know what
it is to have Love or Affection for any one but herself, so she expects it from no one, but
claims a great deal of Respect. Betty doesn't know what Respect for her means, but to gain
her Love and Liking would part with all she had. Blanch is frugal in the main, not very hospitable,
and seldom lavish but in private Pleasures. Betty is hospitable to Prodigality, lavish to Folly,
and thinks nothing a Pleasure that others don't share in. Hence it comes, that the first loves
her Money above all things, the second less than any thing she has any value for at all; that
one is anxious to get, the other in haste to spend. Blanch has a good Understanding, but does
not know the World, and is commonly choused by her Neighbours. Betty has no Opportunity of
knowing the World, as her Sister won't let her go much abroad or converse with the Neighbours;
she has but little Experience, and, to be sure, is not very wise, but is the quickest in the
World at finding out a Fool. The elder is cautious, and hides carefully every Fault she is
conscious of; the younger is not conscious of any Fault of Folly whatever; so they all come
out in her communicative Fits, which seize her as often as she gets a Stranger to talk to.
Blanch is the more censorious, and Betty the greater Liar.

If either of the Ladies think the Picture not like, let them call to mind the Story of a famous
Painter, who had drawn the Portrait of a young Man, whostood very well with himself, but didn't
please him. "You have drawn me," said he, "exactly the Reverse of every thing I am." If it
be so, replied the Painter, that must be your Likeness, and set the Picture on the Head.

FINIS.

BOOKS Printed for, and Sold by, PETER WILSON, in Dame-street.

The Spectator. In 8 Volumes. Price 16s. 6d.

---- The same. Volume 9th. Pr. 2s. 8d. halfp.

The Minor Poets; or, the Works of the most celebrated Authors, of whose Writings there are
but small Remains, viz. the Earls of Roscommon, Dorset, and Hallifax; Sir Sam. Garth; Geo.
Stepney, Will. Walsh, and Tho. Tickell, Esqrs. and Thomas Sprat, Bishop of Rochester. In 2
Volumes. Price 5s. 5d.

The Universal History, from the earliest Account of Time to the Present. Compiled from original
Authors, and illustrated with Maps, Cuts, &c. In 20 Volumes.

The Life and Exploits of Don Quixote de la Mancha. Translated from the original Spanish, by
Charles Jarvis, Esq; In 4 Volumes. With a new Set of Cuts. Pr. 12s.

A Collection of Poems. In 2 Volumes. By several Hands; viz. Lyttleton, West, C----d, Garrick,
Melmoth, Akinside, Brooke, &c. Collected by R. Dodsley. Pr. 5s. 5d.

A New General English Dictionary, peculiarly calculated for the Use and Improvement of such
as are unacquainted with the learned Languages. By Thomas Dyche. The 7th. Edition, with Additions.
Pr. 6s.

A Guide to the English Tongue. By Thomas Dyche. The 32d. Edition, with Additions. Pr. 9d.

Odes of Pindar. Translated from the Greek. By Gilbert West, Esq; Pr. 2s. 2d.

The NEW whole Duty of Man. Containing the Faith as well as Practice of a Christian. Necessary
for all Families, and Authorized by the King's most Excellent Majesty. The 8th Edition, with
large Additions.----N. B. A proper Allowance will be made by the Dozen.

An Address to Persons of Quality and Estate. By Robert Nelson, Esq; Author of the Festivals
and Fasts of the Church of England. Pr. 2s. 2d.

The Freeholder; or, Political Essays. By the Right Hon. Joseph Addison, Esq; Pr. 2s. 2d.

Six Discourses on Prophecy. With 4 Dissertations, and an Appendix. By Thomas Sherlock, now
Lord Bishop of London. Pr. 3s. 3d.

An Examination of the Bishop of London's Discourses on Prophecy. By Conyers Middleton, D. D.
Pr. 1s. 1d.

The Complaint; or, Night Thoughts on Life, Death, and Immortality. By Edward Young, Author
of the Universal Passion. Pr. 2s. 8d. halfp.

A New Version of the Psalms of David. By N. Tate, and N. Brady. Printed on a good Paper, and
large Letter, Pr. 1s. 8d.

The Adventures of Mr. George Edwards, a Creole. Pr. 2s. 2d.

The Tradesman's Vade Mecum. Containing Sir Samuel Moreland's Tables, shewing the Value of any
Quantity of Goods, at any Rate, from half a Farthing to 20 Shillings per Yard, Pound, &c. With
Tables of Coin and Interest. Pr. 1s. 1d.

Tales and Fables of the late Archbishop of Cambray, Author of Telemachus. Pr. 8d.

Visions in Verse, for the Entertainment and Instruction of younger Minds. The 4th Edition.
Pr. 6d. halfp.

A Tour through Ireland. In several entertaining Letters. Pr. 2s. 2d. sew'd.

The British Theatre; or, the Lives of the English Dramatic Poets, with an Account of all their
Plays. Pr. 2s. 2d. sew'd.

Joe Miller's Jests; or, The Wits Vade Mecum. The 12th Edition, with large Additions. Pr. 1s. 1d.

The Works of Mr. William Congreve. In 2 Volumes.

