Poor dear little sinner! Here comes the world again: "In my travels I met with a handsome lad
named Charles Balfour Esq., and from him I got ofers of marage--offers of marage, did I say?
Nay plenty heard me." A fine scent for "breach of promise"!

This is abrupt and strong: "The Divil is curced and all his works. 'Tis a fine work Newton
on the profecies. I wonder if there is another book of poems comes near the Bible. The Divil
always girns at the sight of the Bible." "Miss Potune" (her "simpliton" friend) "is very fat;
she pretends to be very learned. She says she saw a stone that dropt from the skies; but she
is a good Christian." Here comes her views on church government: "An Annibabtist is a thing
I am not a member of--I am a Pisplekan (Episcopalian) just now, and" (O you little Laodicean
and Latitudinarian!) "a Prisbeteran at Kirkcaldy!"--(Blandula! Vagula! coelum et animum mutas
quae trans mare (i.e. trans Bodotriam)--curris!)--"my native town." "Sentiment is not what
I am acquainted with as yet, though I wish it, and should like to practise it." (!) "I wish
I had a great, great deal of gratitude in my heart, in all my body." "There is a new novel
published, named Self-Control" (Mrs. Brunton's)--"a very good maxim forsooth!" This is shocking:
"Yesterday a marrade man, named Mr. John Balfour, Esq., offered to kiss me, and offered to
marry me, though the man" (a fine directness this!) "was espused, and his wife was present
and said he must ask her permission; but he did not. I think he was ashamed and confounded
before 3 gentelman--Mr. Jobson and 2 Mr. Kings." "Mr. Banester's" (Bannister's) "Budjet is
to-night; I hope it will be a good one. A great many authors have expressed themselves too
sentimentally." You are right, Marjorie. "A Mr. Burns writes a beautiful song on Mr. Cunhaming,
whose wife desarted him--truly it is a most beautiful one." "I like to read the Fabulous historys,
about the histerys of Robin, Dickey, flapsay, and Peccay, and it is very amusing, for some
were good birds and others bad, but Peccay was the most dutiful and obedient to her parients."
"Thomson is a beautiful author, and Pope, but nothing to Shakespear, of which I have a little
knolege. 'Macbeth' is a pretty composition, but awful one." "The Newgate Calender is very instructive."
(!) "A sailor called here to say farewell; it must be dreadful to leave his native country
when he might get a wife; or perhaps me, for I love him very much. But O I forgot, Isabella
forbid me to speak about love." This antiphlogistic regimen and lesson is ill to learn by our
Maidie, for here she sins again: "Love is a very papithatick thing" (it is almost a pity to
correct this into pathetic), "as well as troublesome and tiresome--but O Isabella forbid me
to speak of it." Here are her reflections on a pineapple: "I think the price of a pine-apple
is very dear: it is a whole bright goulden guinea, that might have sustained a poor family."
Here is a new vernal simile: "The hedges are sprouting like chicks from the eggs when they
are newly hatched or, as the vulgar say, clacked." "Doctor Swift's works are very funny; I
got some of them by heart." "Moreheads sermons are I hear much praised, but I never read sermons
of any kind; but I read novelettes and my Bible, and I never forget it, or my prayers." Bravo,
Marjorie!

She seems now, when still about six, to have broken out into song:--

"EPHIBOL (EPIGRAM OR EPITAPH,--WHO KNOWS WHICH?) ON MY DEAR LOVE, ISABELLA.

   "Here lies sweet Isabel in bed,
    With a night-cap on her head;
    Her skin is soft, her face is fair,
    And she has very pretty hair:
    She and I in bed lies nice,
    And undisturbed by rats or mice.
    She is disgusted with Mr. Worgan,
    Though he plays upon the organ.
    Her nails are neat, her teeth are white;
    Her eyes are very, very bright.
    In a conspicuous town she lives,
    And to the poor her money gives.
    Here ends sweet Isabella's story,
    And may it be much to her glory!"

Here are some bits at random:--

   "Of summer I am very fond,
    And love to bathe into a pond:
    The look of sunshine dies away,
    And will not let me out to play.
    I love the morning's sun to spy
    Glittering through the casement's eye;
    The rays of light are very sweet,
    And puts away the taste of meat.
    The balmy breeze comes down from heaven,
    And makes us like for to be living."

"The casawary is an curious bird, and so is the gigantic crane, and the pelican of the wilderness,
whose mouth holds a bucket of fish and water. Fighting is what ladies is not qualyfied for,
they would not make a good figure in battle or in a duel. Alas! we females are of little use
to our country. The history of all the malcontents as ever was hanged is amusing." Still harping
on the Newgate Calendar!

"Braehead is extremely pleasant to me by the companie of swine, geese, cocks, etc., and they
are the delight of my soul."

"I am going to tell you of a melancholy story. A young turkie of 2 or 3 months old, would you
believe it, the father broke its leg, and he killed another! I think he ought to be transported
or hanged."

"Queen Street is a very gay one, and so is Princes Street, for all the lads and lasses, besides
bucks and beggars parade there."

"I should like to see a play very much, for I never saw one in all my life, and don't believe
I ever shall; but I hope I can be content without going to one. I can be quite happy without
my desire being granted."

"Some days ago Isabella had a terrible fit of the toothake, and she walked with a long night-shift
at dead of night like a ghost, and I thought she was one. She prayed for nature's sweet restorer--balmy
sleep--but did not get it--a ghostly figure indeed she was, enough to make a saint tremble.
It made me quiver and shake from top to toe. Superstition is a very mean thing and should be
despised and shunned."

Here is her weakness and her strength again: "In the love-novels all the heroines are very
desperate. Isabella will not allow me to speak about lovers and heroins, and 'tis too refined
for my taste." "Miss Egward's (Edgeworth's) tails are very good, particularly some that are
very much adapted for youth (!) as Laz Laurance and Tarelton, False Keys, etc. etc."

"Tom Jones and Grey's Elegey in a country churchyard are both excellent, and much spoke of
by both sex, particularly by the men." Are our Marjories nowadays better or worse because they
cannot read Tom Jones unharmed? More better than worse; but who among them can repeat Gray's
Lines on a distant prospect of Eton College as could our Maidie?

Here is some more of her prattle: "I went into Isabella's bed to make her smile like the Genius
Demedicus" (the Venus de Medicis) "or the statute in an ancient Greece, but she fell asleep
in my very face, at which my anger broke forth, so that I awoke her from a comfortable nap.
All was now hushed up again, but again my anger burst forth at her biding me get up."

She begins thus loftily,--

   "Death the righteous love to see,
    But from it doth the wicked flee."

Then suddenly breaks off as if with laughter,--

"I am sure they fly as fast as their legs can carry them!"

   "There is a thing I love to see,--
    That is, our monkey catch a flee!"

   "I love in Isa's bed to lie,--
    Oh, such a joy and luxury!
    The bottom of the bed I sleep,
    And with great care within I creep;
    Oft I embrace her feet of lillys,
    But she has goton all the pillys.
    Her neck I never can embrace,
    But I do hug her feet in place."

How childish and yet how strong and free is her use of words!--"I lay at the foot of the bed
because Isabella said I disturbed her by continial fighting and kicking, but I was very dull,
and continially at work reading the Arabian Nights, which I could not have done if I had slept
at the top. I am reading the Mysteries of Udolpho. I am much interested in the fate of poor,
poor Emily."

Here is one of her swains:--

   "Very soft and white his cheeks;
    His hair is red, and grey his breeks;
    His tooth is like the daisy fair:
    His only fault is in his hair."

This is a higher flight:--

"DEDICATED TO MRS. H. CRAWFORD BY THE AUTHOR, M.F.

   "Three turkeys fair their last have breathed,
    And now this world forever leaved;
    Their father, and their mother too,
    They sigh and weep as well as you:
    Indeed, the rats their bones have crunched;
    Into eternity theire laanched.
    A direful death indeed they had,
    As wad put any parent mad;
    But she was more than usual calm:
    She did not give a single dam."

This last word is saved from all sin by its tender age, not to speak of the want of the n.
We fear "she" is the abandoned mother, in spite of her previous sighs and tears.

"Isabella says when we pray we should pray fervently, and not rattel over a prayer,--for that
we are kneeling at the footstool of our Lord and Creator, who saves us from eternal damnation,
and from unquestionable fire and brimston."

She has a long poem on Mary Queen of Scots:--

   "Queen Mary was much loved by all,
    Both by the great and by the small;
    But hark! her soul to heaven doth rise,
    And I suppose she has gained a prize;
    For I do think she would not go
    Into the awful place below.
    There is a thing that I must tell,--
    Elizabeth went to fire and hell!
    He who would teach her to be civil,
    It must be her great friend, the divil!"

She hits off Darnley well:--

   "A noble's son,--a handsome lad,--
    By some queer way or other, had
    Got quite the better of her heart;
    With him she always talked apart:
    Silly he was, but very fair;
    A greater buck was not found there."

"By some queer way or other"; is not this the general case and the mystery, young ladies and
gentlemen? Goethe's doctrine of "elective affinities" discovered by our Pet Maidie.

SONNET TO A MONKEY.

   "O lively, O most charming pug!
    Thy graceful air and heavenly mug!
    The beauties of his mind do shine,
    And every bit is shaped and fine.
    Your teeth are whiter than the snow;
    Your a great buck, your a great beau;
    Your eyes are of so nice a shape,
    More like a Christian's than an ape;
    Your cheek is like the rose's blume;
    Your hair is like the raven's plume;
    His nose's cast is of the Roman:
    He is a very pretty woman.
    I could not get a rhyme for Roman,
    So was obliged to call him woman."

This last joke is good. She repeats it when writing of James the Second being killed at Roxburgh:--

   "He was killed by a cannon splinter,
    Quite in the middle of the winter;
    Perhaps it was not at that time,
    But I can get no other rhyme!"

Here is one of her last letters, dated Kirkcaldy, 12th October, 1811. You can see how her nature
is deepening and enriching:--

"MY DEAR MOTHER,--You will think that I entirely forget you but I assure you that you are greatly
mistaken. I think of you always and often sigh to think of the distance between us two loving
creatures of nature. We have regular hours for all our occupations first at 7 o'clock we go
to the dancing and come home at 8 we then read our Bible and get our repeating, and then play
till ten, then we get our music till 11 when we get our writing and accounts we sew from 12
till 1 after which I get my gramer, and then work till five. At 7 we come and knit till 8 when
we dont go to the dancing. This is an exact description. I must take a hasty farewell to her
whom I love, reverence and doat on and who I hope thinks the same of

"MARJORY FLEMING.

"P.S.--An old pack of cards (!) would be very exeptible."

This other is a month earlier:--

"MY DEAR LITTLE MAMA,--I was truly happy to hear that you were all well. We are surrounded
with measles at present on every side, for the Herons got it, and Isabella Heron was near Death's
Door, and one night her father lifted her out of bed, and she fell down as they thought lifeless.
Mr. Heron said, 'That lassie's deed noo,'--'I'm no deed yet.' She then threw up a big worm
nine inches and a half long. I have begun dancing, but am not very fond of it, for the boys
strikes and mocks me.--I have been another night at the dancing; I like it better. I will write
to you as often as I can; but I am afraid not every week. I long for you with the longings
of a child to embrace you,--to fold you in my arms. I respect you with all the respect due
to a mother. You dont know how I love you. So I shall remain, your loving child,--M. FLEMING."

What rich involution of love in the words marked! Here are some lines to her beloved Isabella,
in July, 1811:--

   "There is a thing that I do want,--
    With you these beauteous walks to haunt;
    We would be happy if you would
    Try to come over if you could.
    Then I would all quite happy be
   Now and for all eternity.
    My mother is so very sweet,
   And checks my appetite to eat;
    My father shows us what to do;
    But O I'm sure that I want you.
    I have no more of poetry;
    O Isa do remember me,
    And try to love your Marjory."

In a letter from "Isa" to

       "Miss Muff Maidie Marjory Fleming,
    favored by Rare Rear-Admiral Fleming,"

she says: "I long much to see you, and talk over all our old stories together, and to hear
you read and repeat. I am pining for my old friend Cesario, and poor Lear, and wicked Richard.
How is the dear Multiplication table going on? Are you still as much attached to 9 times 9
as you used to be?"

But this dainty, bright thing is about to flee,--to come "quick to confusion." The measles
she writes of seized her, and she died on the 19th of December, 1811.

It is more affecting than we care to say to read her mother's and Isabella Keith's letters
written immediately after her death. Old and withered, tattered and pale, they are now: but
when you read them, how quick, how throbbing with life and love! how rich in that language
of affection which only women and Shakespeare and Luther can use,--that power of detaining
the soul over the beloved object and its loss!

     "K. PHILIP (to CONSTANCE).

What variations cannot love play on this one string!

In her first letter to Miss Keith, Mrs. Fleming says of her dead Maidie: "Never did I behold
so beautiful an object. It resembled the finest waxwork. There was in the countenance an expression
of sweetness and serenity which seemed to indicate that the pure spirit had anticipated the
joys of heaven ere it quitted the mortal frame. To tell you what your Maidie said of you would
fill volumes; for you was the constant theme of her discourse, the subject of her thoughts,
and ruler of her actions. The last time she mentioned you was a few hours before all sense
save that of suffering was suspended, when she said to Dr. Johnstone, 'If you let me out at
the New Year, I will be quite contented.' I asked her what made her so anxious to get out then.
'I want to purchase a New Year's gift for Isa Keith with the sixpence you gave me for being
patient in the measles; and I would like to choose it myself.' I do not remember her speaking
afterwards, except to complain of her head, till just before she expired, when she articulated,
'O mother! mother!'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Do we make too much of this little child, who has been in her grave in Abbotshall Kirkyard
these fifty and more years? We may of her cleverness,--not of her affectionateness, her nature.
What a picture the animosa infans gives us of herself,--her vivacity, her passionateness, her
precocious love-making, her passion for nature, for swine, for all living things, her reading,
her turn for expression, her satire, her frankness, her little sins and rages, her great repentances!
We don't wonder Walter Scott carried her off in the neuk of his plaid, and played himself with
her for hours.

The year before she died, when in Edinburgh, she was at a Twelfth Night Supper at Scott's,
in Castle Street. The company had all come,--all but Marjorie. Scott's familiars, whom we all
know, were there,--all were come but Marjorie; and all were dull because Scott was dull. "Where's
that bairn? what can have come over her? I'll go myself and see." And he was getting up, and
would have gone; when the bell rang, and in came Duncan Roy and his henchman Tougald, with
the sedan chair, which was brought right into the lobby, and its top raised. And there, in
its darkness and dingy old cloth, sat Maidie in white, her eyes gleaming, and Scott bending
over her in ecstasy,--"hung over her enamored." "Sit ye there, my dautie, till they all see
you"; and forthwith he brought them all. You can fancy the scene. And he lifted her up and
marched to his seat with her on his stout shoulder, and set her down beside him; and then began
the night, and such a night! Those who knew Scott best said, that night was never equalled;
Maidie and he were the stars; and she gave them Constance's speeches and "Helvellyn," the ballad
then much in vogue, and all her repertoire,--Scott showing her off, and being ofttimes rebuked
by her for his intentional blunders.

We are indebted for the following to her sister: "Her birth was 15th January, 1803; her death,
19th December, 1811. I take this from her Bibles.[3] I believe she was a child of robust health,
of much vigor of body, and beautifully formed arms, and, until her last illness, never was
an hour in bed.

[Footnote 3: "Her Bible is before me; a pair, as then called; the faded marks are just as she
placed them. There is one at David's lament over Jonathan."]

"I have to ask you to forgive my anxiety in gathering up the fragments of Marjorie's last days,
but I have an almost sacred feeling to all that pertains to her. You are quite correct in stating
that measles were the cause of her death. My mother was struck by the patient quietness manifested
by Marjorie during this illness, unlike her ardent, impulsive nature; but love and poetic feeling
were unquenched. When Dr. Johnstone rewarded her submissiveness with a sixpence, the request
speedily followed that she might get out ere New Year's day came. When asked why she was so
desirous of getting out, she immediately rejoined, 'O, I am so anxious to buy something with
my sixpence for my dear Isa Keith.' Again, when lying very still, her mother asked her if there
was anything she wished: 'O yes! if you would just leave the room-door open a wee bit, and
play "The Land o' the Leal," and I will lie and think, and enjoy myself' (this is just as stated
to me by her mother and mine). Well, the happy day came, alike to parents and child, when Marjorie
was allowed to come forth from the nursery to the parlor. It was Sabbath evening, and after
tea. My father, who idolized this child, and never afterwards in my hearing mentioned her name,
took her in his arms; and, while walking her up and down the room, she said, 'Father, I will
repeat something to you; what would you like?' He said, 'Just choose yourself, Maidie.' She
hesitated for a moment between the paraphrase, 'Few are thy days, and full of woe,' and the
lines of Burns already quoted, but decided on the latter, a remarkable choice for a child.
The repeating these lines seemed to stir up the depths of feeling in her soul. She asked to
be allowed to write a poem; there was a doubt whether it would be right to allow her, in case
of hurting her eyes. She pleaded earnestly, 'Just this once'; the point was yielded, her slate
was given her, and with great rapidity she wrote an address of fourteen lines, 'to her loved
cousin on the author's recovery,' her last work on earth;--

   'Oh! Isa, pain did visit me;
    I was at the last extremity:
    How often did I think of you,
    I wished your graceful form to view,
    To clasp you in my weak embrace,
    Indeed I thought I'd run my race:
    Good care, I'm sure, was of me taken,
    But still indeed I was much shaken,
    At last I daily strength did gain,
    And oh! at last, away went pain;
    At length the doctor thought I might
    Stay in the parlor all the night;
    I now continue so to do,
    Farewell to Nancy and to you.'

"She went to bed apparently well, awoke in the middle of the night with the old cry of woe
to a mother's heart, 'My head, my head!' Three days of the dire malady, 'water in the head,'
followed, and the end came."

   "Soft, silken primrose, fading timelessly."

It is needless, it is impossible, to add anything to this: the fervor, the sweetness, the flush
of poetic ecstasy, the lovely and glowing eye, the perfect nature of that bright and warm intelligence,
that darling child,--Lady Nairne's words, and the old tune, stealing up from the depths of
the human heart, deep calling unto deep, gentle and strong like the waves of the great sea
hushing themselves to sleep in the dark; the words of Burns touching the kindred chord, her
last numbers "wildly sweet" traced with thin and eager fingers, already touched by the last
enemy and friend,--moriens canit,--and that love which is so soon to be her everlasting light,
is her song's burden to the end.

 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

LITTLE JAKEY.

BY MRS. S.H. DEKROYFT.

I.

At the time of the opening of this story, there were in the rear of the New York Institution
for the Blind, two small but pleasant parks, full of trees and winding walks, where the birds
sang, and blind boys and girls ran and played. The little gate between the two parks was usually
left open during school hours, and one bright June morning, while the sun was drinking up the
dews from the leaves and the flowers, I chanced to be walking there, and I heard the little
gate opening and shutting, opening and shutting; rattle went the chain, then bang went the
gate, until suddenly, as I was passing it, a little voice saluted me, so sweet and musical
and up so high, that for the moment I almost fancied one of the birds had stopped his song
to speak with me.

"I know you. I knows ven you come. Sometimes you tell stories to ze girls, and I hear you ven
I bees dis side."

Going up and putting my hand on the little speaker's head, I said,--

"Pray, what little girl is this here, with these long pretty curls, swinging on the gate?"

"I bees not a girl,--I bees a boy, I be."

Then passing my hand down over a little coat covered with buttons, I said,--

"Surely, so you are a little boy; but what is your name?"

"My name bees Little Jakey; dot is my name."

"Little Jakey! Indeed! and pray, when did you come here?"

Quick as thought his little foot struck out against the post again, and the gate went flying
to and fro, as before; then coming to a sudden halt, he said,--

"Vell, I tink I tell you. I bees here von Sunday and von Sunday and von Sunday; so long I bees
here."

"How old are you, Jakey?"

"I bees seving; dot is my old,--dot is how old I bees."

"And can you not see?"

"No, I not see. Ven Gott make my eyes, my moder say he not put ze light in zem."

"And are you going to school here, Jakey?"

"Yes, some ze time I go in ze school, and I read ze letters mit my fing-er. Von letter vot
live on ze top ze line, I know him, ven I put my fing-er on him; hees name bees A; and von
oder letter, I know him, ven I put my fing-er on him,--round like ze hoop; hees name bees O."

"Who teaches you the letters, Little Jakey?"

"Cassie, ce teach me, but all ze time ce laugh, ven I say ze vords; so Miss Setland sen her
avay, and now Libbie, ce teach me. But not much I go in ze school. I come down here mit ze
birds in ze trees. Up to ze house ze birds not go. Eddy and Villy, and all ze boys, ven zey
play, make big noise, and zey scare ze birds. But down here zey not scare, and all ze time
zey sing."

"You love the birds, Jakey?"

"Yes, I love ze birds. I love von bird up in dot tree. You not see him vay high dare? Ven I
have eat my dinner in ze morning, I come down here, and ven I have eat my dinner in ze noon,
I come down here; and all ze time, ven I come, he sing. Sometimes some oder birds come in ze
tree, and zey sing mit him; but all ze time he sing. I vish I sing like ze birds. I vish I
have vings, and I go vay high in ze sky, vare ze stars be. Gott make ze stars, and Georgy say
dot zey shine vay down in ze vater, he see zem dare; and von time I tell him dot he vill get
me von mit hees hook vot he catch ze fishes mit; but he laugh and say dot he cannot. But I
tink I see ze stars ven I come im Himmel mit"--

"Im Himmel! Where is that, Jakey? Where is Himmel?"

"Vy! you not know dot? Himmel bees vare Gott live."

I caught him down from the gate in my arms, and nearly smothered him with kisses.

Then he put his bands up and felt my face over, so softly and tenderly, that I fancied his
little creeping fingers reading there every thought in my heart; and finally, clasping his
loving arms around my neck, he said, in a voice hardly above a whisper,--

"I love you,--you love me?"

"I do indeed love you, you dear lamb," I said; but I could hardly speak, my voice was so choked
with tears. Perceiving this, he rested his little hand softly on my cheek again, and whispered
timidly,--

"Vy for you cry?"

But hearing some one approaching, and fearing to be disturbed, I took his little hand in mine
and led him away, across the park, to a seat under the big mulberry, where I held him long
and lovingly on my lap, as I did often afterwards, while coaxing from his sweet lips the following
chapters of his strange little life.

II.

Little Jakey was indeed little Jakey. I have often seen boys three years old both taller and
heavier; but never one more perfect in form and feature. His little feet and hands might have
belonged to a fairy. His black eyes were bright and full, with long lashes and arched brows.
His long curls were blacker than the raven, and while holding him there in my arms, I could
think of nothing but a beautiful cherub with folded wings, astray from heaven. After smoothing
down his curls awhile, and kissing him many times, I said to him,--

"Dear Jakey, pray where did you come from, and who brought you here?"

Then dropping both his little hands in mine, he said,--

"I come fon Germany. My moder, ce bring me. I come mit her, and mit ze baby. Ven I come in
ze America, ze flowers bees in ze garden, and ze birds bees in ze trees, and ze opples bees
on ze trees, and ze pot-a-toes bees in ze ground. Zen ze vinds blow and ze birds go avay, and
ze opples bees in ze cellar, and ze pot-a-toes bees in ze cellar. Zen ze vinds blow too hard
and ze snow bees on ze ground, and it bees cold vinter. Zen long time ze snow go avay, and
ze leaves come on ze trees, and ze birds come back again, and it bees varm; so long I bees
in ze America."

"And so you have been here one year? But pray, dear, where is your father? Is he dead?"

"No, he bees not dead. He bees in Germany, mit Jeem and mit Fred and mit my granfader."

"But, Jakey, why did your mother come away here to America, and leave your father away there
in Germany?"

I felt his little hands stir in mine; but after a moment he drew a little sigh and said,--

"Vell, I tink I tell you. My granfader have some lands, some big lands he have, and he sell
zem; and may be he not buy it, but he get von big house in ze city, mit vindows vay down to
ze ground, and in ze vindows he put--I not know vot you call zem, but zey have vine in zem,
and beer in zem."

"Bottles, Jakey?"

"Yes, dot bees it, bottles mit vine and mit beer in zem; and my fader go dare, and he give
my granfader ze pennies, and he drink ze vine and he drink ze beer. Much times and all ze time
he go dare, and he do dot. And von day he come home, and he have drunk too much ze beer, and
hees head go von vay and von vay; and he say vicked vords, and my moder ce cry. Jeem and Fred
bees afraid, and zey hide; but I bees not afraid, I bees mit my moder. And ven my fader tink
he sit down on ze chair, he go vay fall on ze floor; and ven Jeem and Fred hear him, zey run
out, and ven zey see him dare on ze floor, zey laugh; and my fader say dot he vill kill zem,
and he vill trow ze chair at zem, but too quick zey run avay; and all ze time my moder ce cry
and ce cry, and ce not eat ze dinner, and ce make my fader go lay on ze bed.

"Von time my fader come home and he have drunk too much ze beer, and he have sold ze piano.
And von time he come home and he have drunk too much ze beer, and he have sold ze harp; and
ze man come mit him vot have buy it; and ven ze harp go avay, my moder ce cry, and my fader
strike her mit hees hand, and he strike Jeem and Fred; and me he vill strike, but my moder
ce not let him.

"Von oder time ze men come dare, and zey take avay all ze tings vot my moder have,--ze chair,
and ze sofa, and all ze tings. Zen my moder ce go live in von leetle house, and some ze time
ce not have ze fire dare, and some ze time ce not have ze bread. And von time in ze night my
fader come home, and he bring too much men mit him vot have drunk ze beer; and he tell my moder
dot ce give ze men ze supper. And my moder say dot ce have not ze supper, ce have not ze fire,
and ce have not ze bread; and ven ce tell ze men go avay, zey say bad vords to my moder, and
my fader he strike her dot ce go on ze floor. Zen mit her hair he drag her to ze door, and
mit hees feets he strike her vay out on ze stone, and her head bleed. And Jeem he see her dare,
and he cry, and Fred cry, and I cry; and my moder ce groan like ce die. And von ze men vot
come mit him strike my fader, and von oder man strike him, and zey say vicked vords, and zey
all strike, and zey break ze tings. And vile zey do dot, my moder ce get up, and ce come avay
in ze dark, and Jeem and Fred come mit her, and I come mit her, and long vay ce sit down on
ze stone by ze big house; and Jeem bees cold dare, and he cry; and Fred bees cold, and he cry.
I bees not cold, I not cry, my moder ce hold me tight; but all ze time ce cry.

"Zen long time ze man vot live in ze big house open ze door, and he say some vords to my moder,
and my moder ce tell him dot my fader have got ze bad men mit him in ze house; and he tell
my moder dot ce come in; and Jeem and Fred zey go up ze step, and ze man he lif me, and my
moder ce come up ze step; and ven ce come in, ze man see ze blood, vare my fader have strike
her, and he go tell ze lady dot ce come, and ze lady vash my moder's head, and ce give her
ze medicine vot ce drink. Zen ce lay her on ze bed, and I lay on ze bed mit her; and Jeem and
Fred zey go in von leetle bed to ze fire.

"In ze morning my moder come home, and my fader sleep dare on ze floor, and vile he sleep,
he make big noise mit hees nose; and Jeem and Fred laugh, cause my fader make big noise mit
hees nose, but my moder ce cry.

"Long time Jeem bees hungry and he cry, Fred bees hungry and he cry, but my moder say ce have
not ze meat and ce have not ze bread. Zen long time my fader vake, and ven he see my moder
dare, he say dot he vill be good, dot he vill not drink ze vine and ze beer any more; and he
kiss my moder, and he say dot he love her, and dot he vill get ze fire, and he vill get ze
bread, but he have not ze money. Zen my moder say dot ce vill give him ze vatch vot ce have,
ven ce vas mit her moder in Italy, to get ze money mit, but ce tink ven he get ze money he
vill drink ze beer. My fader say No! vile he live and vile he die, he not drink any more ze
beer; and he kiss Jeem and he kiss Fred and he kiss me, and he tell my moder dot ven he sell
ze vatch, he vill bring ze money, and he vill get ze fire, and he vill get ze meat and ze bread.
Zen my moder ce get him ze vatch, and he go avay.

"Long time he not come. Zen long time in ze night he come, and he bring ze bread mit him, but
he have drunk ze beer. My moder tell him dot he have, and he say dot he have not; but all ze
time hees head go von vay and von vay, and some ze vords he speak, and some ze vords he not
speak. My moder ce tell him, Vare ze money vot he get mit ze vatch? and he say dot he have
not ze money, dot he not sell ze vatch. Zen my moder say, Vare ze vatch den? and he say dot
he have loss it, dot vile he sell it, von man get it! But my moder say No, he have got ze money
and he have drunk ze beer mit ze bad men, ce know he have. Zen my fader strike her von time
and von time; and ven ce go on ze floor, he strike her dare mit hees feets, and ce not move,
like ce be dead, and he say he vill kill her, he vill, he vill! And Jeem scream and Fred scream,
and my fader get ze big knife vot he cut ze bread mit, and he lif it vay high, and say loud
much times dot he vill kill zem all! But ze men vot vatch in ze night come in, and ven zey
see my fader dare mit ze knife, zey put ze chain on hees feets and on hees hands, and zey go
avay mit him. And quick von man come back mit ze doctor, and ven, mit hees leetle knife, he
have make my moder's arm bleed, ce speak, and ce say, Vare my fader be? and ze man tell her
dot zey have lock him up, and he vill be hang mit ze rope; and my moder ce cry, and long time
ce bees sick in ze bed."

III.

"Did your mother come from Italy, Jakey?"

"Yes; ven my fader have not drunk ze beer, he make ze peoples mit ze brush; and he go in Italy,
and ven he have make my moder dare mit ze brush, ce love him, and ce run away mit him ven her
moder not know it. And ven ce come in Germany, von oder time he make her mit ze brush, and
ce hang on ze vall; and Jeem he make, and Fred he make mit ze brush, and zey hang on ze vall.
Much ze peoples he make mit ze brush, and zey give him ze money. Me he not make, but my moder
ce make me mit ze leetle brush; but ven I bees made, I not hang on ze vall, I bees sut like
ze book. And ce make Jeem dot vay, and Fred dot vay, and ce keep zem. Von time my fader go
to ze drawer, and he get zem all, and he go avay and he sell zem, and he get ze money; and
ven my moder know it, ce come vare ze man be vot have buy zem, and I come mit her, and ce give
him ze ring fon her fing-er, and ce get me back and ce hide me.

"Von time my fader have sell my moder vot hang on ze vall, and ze man come dare, and my fader
have take her down, and Jeem cry and Fred cry; and Fred say let hees go, and Jeem say let hees
go, but my moder say no, and ze man go avay mit her."

"But, dear Jakey, how long did they keep your father locked up there with the chains on him?"

"Oh! big long time; and von time my granfader come dare, and my moder bees sick in ze bed;
ce not get vell vare my fader have strike her; and my granfader tell her dot ze man vot sit
vay high in ze seat have said ze vord, dot my fader go vay off, and be lock up mit ze dark
and mit ze chains on him, vile he live and vile he die. Zen my moder say ce vill go vare he
be. My granfader lif her, and ce get up, and I come mit zem. And ven my moder come dare, ce
go to ze man vot have said ze vord, and ce tell him dot he vill let my fader go, he vill, he
vill! And ce say dot ce vill die, if he not let my fader go, and ce cry; and ce tell ze man
vot sit vay high in ze chair, dot he vill let him go? but ze man say No, he have said ze vord.
Zen my moder go down vare my fader be mit ze chains on him, and ven ce come dare, ce scream,
and ce fall on ze ground, like ce be dead. Zen my granfader say dot I go tell ze man dot he
vill let my fader go, and ven my granfader bring me, and I come dare, I tink I say dot; but
I tell him dot he vill not kill my moder, and I cry, too loud I cry. Zen ze man go vay high
on hees feets mil his hand on my head, and he say some vords to ze men vot bees dare, and he
say some vords to my granfader. Zen he go roun on his feets and he say some vords to my fader.
He tell him, dot he vill be good? dot he vill not drink ze beer? dot he vill vork? dot he vill
make ze peoples mit ze brush? dot he vill love my moder, and get ze bread and ze fire and ze
meat? and my fader say he vill, he vill! Zen ze man vot have said ze vord tell my fader dot
he may go; and quick von oder man take ze chains fon hees feets and fon hees hands, and he
bees too glad; and he lif up my moder, and he sake her dot ce speak, and he love her, and he
come avay mit her. And my granfader bring me; I come mit him in hees arms, and vile my granfader
valk, he cry.

"Ven it bees night, ze big man vot sit vay high in ze chair and vot have said ze vord, come
to ze house, and he see my moder dare in ze bed; and he talk mit her, and he talk mit my fader,
and he say some vords mit Jeem and mit Fred, and he hold me on hees lap.

"Long time he stay dare, and ven he go vay, he tell my fader, if he vill make him mit ze brush?
and my fader say dot he vill. Zen much times he come dare, and ven my fader have make him big
all aroun, fon hees feets to hees head, mit ze chair vot he sit in vay high, ven he say ze
vord, he give my fader much ze money, much money he give; and my fader get ze fire mit it,
and ze bread and ze meat; and he love my moder, and he love Jeem, and he love Fred, and me he love.

"Zen my moder sing, but ce have not ze harp, and ce have not ze piano; and my fader sing mit
her; and much ze peoples he make mit ze brush; and my moder ce help him, all ze time ce help
him, and Jeem and Fred zey help; zey grind ze tings vot he make ze peoples mit. Von time I
help; ven Fred bees gone, I vash ze brushes, and my moder say dot I have make zem clean so
better as Fred. And all ze time I rock ze baby in ze leetle bed, and I sing ze song vot my
moder make ze baby sleep mit."

"Did your father stay always good, Jakey, and did he never drink the beer any more?"

"Oh! no," he answered, with an earnestness that chilled my very heart, and made me feel that
he had not yet told me half the sorrow shut up in his little bosom; and while, with tears in
my eyes, I tried to encourage him to go on, I felt almost guilty, and was about deciding to
probe his little heart no more, when of his own accord he resumed.

"Von time my fader say dot he vill go to ze man mit ze pic-sure vot he have make, and he vill
get ze money; and my moder say dot ce vill go mit him; but my fader say No, he vill go mit
hees-self, and ven he have got ze money, he vill come home to ze supper. But long time he not
come. Jeem he go in ze bed, and Fred he go in ze bed, and I go in ze leetle bed, and my moder
ce have ze baby mit her to ze fire.

