     "'Our mess had the volume of Harper's Magazine, found at
     Salisbury, and we each could have it an hour or more daily.
     A few games of checkers or cribbage, played sitting on the
     floor, tailor-fashion, were always in order. All who were
     accustomed to smoking would manage to secure a supply of
     tobacco at least sufficient for one smoke per day, and, if
     they could not obtain it in any other way, would sell half
     their scanty ration, and perhaps get enough to last a week.
     It was a good place to learn how to economize. I have known
     some to refuse a light from the pipe, for fear of losing a
     grain of the precious weed. Evenings we would be in
     darkness, and as we could not move about without frequent
     collisions, would gather in little groups and talk of home,
     friends, and the good time coming, when we would have one
     good, square meal; arrange the bill of fare, comprising all
     the delicacies that heart could wish, or a morbid mind
     prompted by a starving stomach could conceive; lay plans for
     escape and discuss the route to be followed; sing a few
     hymns and the national airs, and wind up with 'We'll Hang
     Jeff Davis on a Sour Apple Tree.'

     "'There were with us two officers who, when we arrived at
     Salisbury, had been in solitary confinement and whom the
     rebels were holding as hostages for two guerillas whom Gen.
     Burnside had condemned to be shot. When the removal of the
     officers to Danville occurred, these two were released from
     close confinement and sent on with us, and it was thought
     they were no longer considered as hostages. They had planned
     an escape and well nigh succeeded. They had dug a hole
     through the brick wall, and passing into an adjoining
     unoccupied building, cut through the floor, dug under the
     stone foundation and were just coming through on the
     outside, when some one in passing stepped on the thin crust
     and fell in. Whether he or the men digging were the most
     frightened it would be hard to tell. The next morning these
     two who had worked so hard to regain their liberty were
     taken out and probably placed in close confinement again.

     "'After this attempt to escape, the rebel authorities made
     an effort to rob us of everything, particularly
     pocket-knives, watches, or any thing that could aid us to
     escape. In this they were foiled. They made us all go to one
     end of the room and placing a guard through the middle,
     searched us one by one and passed us to the other side. If
     one had a knife, watch or money, he had only to toss it over
     to some one already searched, and when his turn came would
     have nothing to show.

     "'The guards would not allow us to stand by the windows, and
     on one occasion, without warning, fired through a
     second-story window and badly wounded an officer on the
     third floor.

     "'My shoes were nearly worn out when I was captured, and
     soon became so worn that I could only keep sole and body
     together by cutting strings from the edge of the uppers and
     lacing them together. These strings would wear but a little
     while, and frequent cuttings had made the shoes very low.

     "'Toward the last of January, Capt. Cook received
     intelligence that a special exchange had been effected in
     his case and he was to start at once for the North. Here was
     an opportunity to communicate with our comrades and friends,
     for up to this time we did not know whether any of our
     letters had been received. Capt. Cook had a pair of good
     stout brogans. These shoes he urged me to take in exchange
     for my dilapidated ones. At first, I felt reluctant to do
     so, but finally made the exchange and he left us with a
     light heart, but his anticipations were not realized, for
     instead of going directly North he was detained in Libby
     Prison until just before the rest of us arrived, and when we
     reached Annapolis he was still there awaiting his leave, and
     had been obliged to wear my old shoes until two days
     previous.

     "'Rumors of a general exchange began to circulate, and a few
     boxes of provisions and clothing, sent by Northern friends,
     were delivered. Among the rest, was a well-filled box from
     the officers of our regiment, and twelve hundred dollars
     Confederate money (being the equivalent of sixty dollars
     greenbacks) which they had kindly contributed. Could we have
     received the box and money in November, instead of just
     before our release, we could have subsisted quite
     comfortably all winter. As it was, we lived sumptuously as
     long as the contents of the box lasted, and when about a
     week later we started for Richmond to be paroled, we had
     drawn considerably upon the twelve hundred dollars.

     "'February 17th, we left Danville for Richmond and were
     again quartered in Libby. On the 19th, we signed the parole
     papers.

     "'The second morning after signing the rolls, one of the
     clerks came in and said that for want of transportation,
     only a hundred would be sent down the river that day, and
     the rest would follow soon; that those whose names were
     called would fall in on the lower floor, ready to start. As
     he proceeded to call the roll there was a death-like
     stillness, and each listened anxiously to hear his own name.
     Of our mess only one name was called. As he stopped reading
     and folded his rolls and turned to leave, I thought, what if
     our army should commence active operations and put an end
     to the exchange, and resolved to go with the party that day,
     if possible. I had noticed that the clerk had not called the
     names in their order nor checked them, and knew he could not
     tell who had been called. I therefore hurried down to the
     lower floor and fell in with the rest, thinking all the time
     of the possibility of detection and the consequent solitary
     confinement, and although my conscience was easy so far as
     the papers I had signed were concerned--for I had only
     agreed not to take up arms until duly exchanged--I did not
     breath freely until I had disembarked from the boat and was
     under the Stars and Stripes. Fortunately, the rest of the
     party came down on the boat the next day.

     "'One other incident and I am done: Sergt. Henry Jordan, of
     Company C, was wounded and captured with the rest of us, but
     on account of his wounds was unable to be sent South with
     the other enlisted-men. After his recovery he was kept as a
     servant about the office of Major Turner, the commandant of
     the prison, and when, on the 2d of April, 1865, the rebels
     evacuated Richmond and paroled the prisoners, he remained
     until our forces came in and took possession of the city.
     When, a few days later, Maj. Turner was captured by our
     troops and confined in the same cell we had occupied, Sergt.
     Jordan was detailed to carry him his rations, and although
     he was not of a vindictive or revengeful disposition, I will
     venture to say that the rations allowed Turner were not much
     better than had been given the sergeant through the winter.
     Had Turner been guarded by such men as Henry Jordan, or even
     by the poorest soldiers of the regiment, he would not have
     escaped within three days of his capture, as was the case.'"

Very few of the black soldiers were exchanged, though the confederate government pretended
to recognize them and treat them as they did the whites. General Taylor's reply to General
Grant, was the general policy applied to them when convenient. In the latter days of the war,
when--in June, 1864, at Guntown, Miss.,--the confederate Gen. Forrest attacked and routed the
Union forces, under Sturgis, through the stupidity of the latter, (alluded to more at length
a few pages further on,) a number of black soldiers were captured, Sturgis having had several
Phalanx regiments in his command. The confederates fought with desperation, and with their
usual "no quarter," because, as Forrest alleges, the Phalanx regiments meant to retaliate for
his previous massacre of the blacks at Fort Pillow. Seeking to justify the inhuman treatment
of his black prisoners, he wrote as follows to General Washburn, commanding the District of
West Tennessee:

     "It has been reported to me that all of your colored troops
     stationed in Memphis took, on their knees, in the presence
     of Major General Hurlburt and other officers of your army,
     an oath to avenge Fort Pillow, and that they would show my
     troops no quarter. Again I have it from indisputable
     authority that the troops under Brigadier General Sturgis on
     their recent march from Memphis, publicly, and in many
     places, proclaimed that no quarter would be shown my men. As
     they were moved into action on the 10th they were exhorted
     by their officers to remember Fort Pillow. The prisoners we
     have captured from that command, or a large majority of
     them, have voluntarily stated that they expected us to
     murder them, otherwise they would have surrendered in a body
     rather than have taken to the bushes after being run down
     and exhausted."

The massacre at Fort Pillow had a very different effect upon the black soldiers than it was
doubtless expected to have. Instead of weakening their courage it stimulated them to a desire
of retaliation; not in the strict sense of that term, but to fight with a determination to
subdue and bring to possible punishment, the men guilty of such atrocious conduct. Had General
Sturgis been competent of commanding, Forrest would have found himself and his command no match
for the Phalanx at Guntown and Brice's Cross Roads. Doubtless Forrest was startled by the reply
of General Washburn, who justly recognized the true impulse of the Phalanx. He replied to Forrest,
June 19, 1864, as follows:

     "You say in your letter that it has been reported to you
     that all the negro troops stationed in Memphis took an oath,
     on their knees, in the presence of Major General Hurlburt
     and other officers of our army, to avenge Fort Pillow and
     that they would show your troops no quarter. I believe it is
     true that the colored troops did take such an oath, but not
     in the presence of General Hurlburt. From what I can learn
     this act of theirs was not influenced by any white officer,
     but was the result of their own sense of what was due to
     themselves and their fellows who had been mercilessly
     slaughtered."

The chief of Forrest's artillery writes in the Philadelphia Times, in September, 1883:

     "Col. Arthur T. Reeve, who commanded the Fifty-fifth Colored
     Infantry in this fight, tells me that no oath was taken by
     his troops that ever he heard of, but the impression
     prevailed that the black flag was raised, and on his side
     was raised to all intents and purposes. He himself fully
     expected to be killed if captured. Impressed with this
     notion a double effect was produced. It made the Federals
     afraid to surrender and greatly exasperated our men, and in
     the break-up the affair became more like a hunt for wild
     game than a battle between civilized men."

In his description of the battle at Brice's Cross Roads, he says:

     "The entire Confederate force was brought into action at
     once. We kept no reserves; every movement was quickly
     planned and executed with the greatest celerity. A potent
     factor which made the battle far bloodier than it would have
     been, was it being reported, and with some degree of truth,
     that the negroes had been sworn on their knees in line
     before leaving Memphis to show 'no quarter to Forrest's
     men,' and badges were worn upon which were inscribed,
     'Remember Fort Pillow.' General Washburn, commanding the
     district of West Tennessee, distinctly admits that the negro
     troops with Sturgis had gone into this fight with the
     declared intention to give no quarter to Forrest's men."

The fate of the black soldiers taken in these fights is unknown, which is even worse than of
those who are known to have been massacred.

The details of the massacre at Fort Pillow have been reserved for this portion of the present
chapter in order to state them more at length, and in connection with important movements which
soon after took place against the same confederate force.

The most atrocious of all inhuman acts perpetrated upon a brave soldiery, took place at Fort
Pillow, Kentucky, on the 13th of April, 1864. No cause can be assigned for the shocking crime
of wanton, indiscriminate murder of some three hundred soldiers, other than that they were
"niggers," and "fighting with niggers."

On the 12th, General Forrest suddenly appeared before Fort Pillow with a large force, and demanded
its surrender. The fort was garrisoned by 557 men in command of Major L. F. Booth, consisting
of the 13th Tennessee Cavalry, Major Bradford, and the 6th Phalanx Battery of heavy artillery,
numbering 262 men, and six guns. At sunrise on the 13th, General Forrest's forces advanced
and attacked the fort. The garrison maintained a steady brisk fire, and kept the enemy at bay
from an outer line of intrenchments. About 9 A. M. Major Booth was killed, and Major Bradford
taking command, drew the troops back into the Fort, situated on a high, steep and partially
timbered bluff on the Mississippi river, with a ravine on either hand. A federal gunboat, the
"New Era," assisted in the defence, but the height of the bluff prevented her giving material
support to the garrison. In the afternoon both sides ceased firing, to cool and clean their
guns. During this time, Forrest, under a flag of truce, summoned the federals to surrender
within a half hour. Major Bradford refused to comply with the demand. Meantime the confederates
taking advantage of the truce to secret themselves down in a ravine, from whence they could
rush upon the Fort at a given signal. No sooner was Bradford's refusal to surrender received,
than the confederates rushed simultaneously into the Fort. In a moment almost the place was
in their possession. The garrison, throwing away their arms fled down the steep banks, endeavoring
to hide from the promised "no quarter," which Forrest had embodied in his demand for surrender:
"If I have to storm your works, you may expect no quarter." The confederates followed, "butchering
black and white soldiers and non-combatants, men, women and children. Disabled men were made
to stand up and be shot; others were burned within the tents wherein they had been nailed to
the floor." This carnival of murder continued until dark, and was even renewed the next morning.
Major Bradford was not murdered until he had been carried as a prisoner several miles on the
retreat.

It is best that the evidence in this matter, as given in previous pages of this chapter, should
be read. It is unimpeachable, though Forrest, S. D. Lee and Chalmers have attempted to deny
the infernal work. The last named, under whose command these barbarous acts were committed,
offered on the floor of the United States Congress, fifteen years afterward, an apologetic
denial of what appears from the evidence of those who escaped,--taken by the Congressional
Committee,--and also contradictory to the confederate General S. D. Lee's report, in which
he fails to convince himself even of the inaccuracy of the reports of brutality, as made by
the few who escaped being murdered. Lee says:

     "The garrison was summoned in the usual manner, and its
     commanding officer assumed the responsibility of refusing to
     surrender after having been informed by General Forrest of
     his ability to take the Fort, and of his fears of what the
     result would be in case the demand was not complied with.
     The assault was made under a heavy fire, and with
     considerable loss to the attacking party. Your colors were
     never lowered, and your garrison never surrendered, but
     retreated under cover of a gunboat, with arms in their hands
     and constantly using them. This was true particularly of
     your colored troops, who had been firmly convinced by your
     teaching of the certainty of slaughter, in case of capture.
     Even under these circumstances, many of your men, white and
     black, were taken prisoners."

Continuing, he says:

     "The case under consideration is almost an extreme one. You
     had a servile race armed against us. I assert that our
     officers with all the circumstances against them endeavored
     to prevent the effusion of blood."

This is an admission that the massacre of the garrison actually occurred, and because Phalanx
troops were a part of the garrison. That the black soldiers had been taught that no quarter
would be shown them if captured, or if they surrendered, is doubtless true. It is also too
true that the teaching was the truth. One has but to read the summons for the surrender to
be satisfied of the fact, and then recollect that the President of the Confederate States,
in declaring General Butler an outlaw, also decreed that negroes captured with arms in their
hands, their officers as well, should be turned over to the State authorities wherein they
were captured, to be dealt with according to the laws of that State and the Confederacy.

The sentiment of the chief confederate commander regarding the employment of negroes in the
Union army, notwithstanding the Confederate Government was the first to arm and muster them
into service, as shown in previous and later chapters, is manifested by the following dispatch,
though at the time of writing it, that General had hundreds of blacks under his command at
Charleston building fortifications.

                        "CHARLESTON, S. C., Oct. 13th, 1862.

           "HON. WM. P. MILES, RICHMOND, VA.

     "Has the bill for the execution of abolition prisoners,
     after January next, been passed? Do it, and England will be
     stirred into action. It is high time to proclaim the black
     flag after that period: let the execution be with the
     garrote. G. T. BEAUREGARD."

The confederate thirst for "nigger" blood seemed to have been no stronger in Kentucky than
in other Departments, but it does appear, for some reason, that Kentucky and northern Mississippi
were selected by the confederate generals, Pillow and Forrest, as appropriate sections in which
to particularly vent their spite. The success of Forrest at Fort Pillow rather strengthened
General Beauford's inhumanity. He commanded a portion of Pillow's forces which appeared before
Columbus the day after the Fort Pillow massacre, and in the following summons demanded its
surrender:

     "To the Commander of the United States Forces, Columbus,
     Ky.:

     "Fully capable of taking Columbus and its garrison, I desire
     to avoid shedding blood. I therefore demand the
     unconditional surrender of the forces under your command.
     Should you surrender, the negroes in arms will be returned
     to their masters. Should I be compelled to take the place by
     force, no quarter will be shown negro troops whatever;
     white troops will be treated as prisoners of war.

                            "I am, sir, yours,
                                A. BEAUFORD, Brig. Gen."

Colonel Lawrence, of the 34th New Jersey, declined to surrender, and drove the enemy off, who
next appeared in Paducah, but retired without making an assault upon the garrison.

These occurrences, with the mysterious surrender of Union City to Forrest, on the 16th of March,
so incensed the commander of the Department that a strong force was organized, and in command
of General S. D. Sturgis, started, on the 30th of April, in pursuit of Forrest and his men,
but did not succeed in overtaking him. A few weeks later, General Sturgis, with a portion of
his former force, combined with that of General Smith's,--just returning from the Red River
(Banks) fiasco,--again went in pursuit of General Forrest. At Guntown, on the 10th of June,
Sturgis' cavalry, under General Grierson, came up with the enemy, charged upon them, and drove
them back upon their infantry posted near Brice's Cross Roads. General Grierson, needing support,
sent back for the infantry, which was several miles in his rear. The day was intensely hot,
and the roads, from constant rains, in very bad condition. However, Sturgis marched the troops
up at double-quick to the position where General Grierson was holding the confederates in check.
The infantry had become so exhausted when they reached the scene of action, that they were
unable to fight as they otherwise would have done. Sturgis, either ignorant of what was going
on or incapacitated for the work, heightened the disorder at the front by permitting his train
of over two hundred wagons to be pushed up close to the troops, thus blocking their rear, and
obstructing their manoeuvring; finally the wagons were parked a short distance from the lines
and in sight of the foe. The troops exhausted by the rapid march, without proper formation
or commanders, had been brought up to the support of the cavalry, who were hotly engaged with
the enemy, whose desperation was increased at the sight of the Phalanx regiments. General Beauford
had joined Forrest, augmenting his force 4,000. Sturgis' force numbered about 12,000, in cavalry,
artillery and infantry. Forrest was well provided with artillery, which was up early and took
a position in an open field enfilading the Federal line, which fought with a determination
worthy of a better fate than that which befel it.

A confederate writer says:

     "At early dawn on the 10th Lyon took the advance, with
     Morton's artillery close behind, Rucker and Johnson
     following. Meanwhile, Bell, as we have stated, at Rienzi,
     eight miles further north, was ordered to move up at a trot.
     The roads, soaked with water from recent continuous heavy
     rains and so much cut up by the previous passage of cavalry
     and trains, greatly retarded the progress of the artillery,
     so that Rucker and Johnson soon passed us. On reaching old
     Carrollville, five miles northeast of Brice's Cross Roads,
     heavy firing could be heard just on ahead. Forrest, as was
     his custom, had passed to the front of the entire column
     with his escort.

     "He had, however, ordered Lieutenant R. J. Black, a dashing
     young officer, temporarily attached to his staff, to take a
     detachment of men from the Seventh Tennessee Cavalry and
     move forward and develop the enemy. Black soon reported that
     he had met the advance of the Federal cavalry one and a half
     miles from Brice's Cross Roads and there was skirmishing
     with them. General Forrest ordered Lyon to press forward
     with his brigade. A courier hastening back to the artillery
     said: 'General Forrest says, 'Tell Captain Morton to fetch
     up the artillery at a gallop.' Lyon in the meantime had
     reached the enemy's outposts, dismounted his brigade and
     thrown it into line and had warmly opposed a strong line of
     infantry or dismounted cavalry, which, after stubborn
     resistance, had been driven back to within half a mile of
     Brice's Cross Roads."

The columns of the Federals could not do more than retreat, and if they had been able to do
this in any order, and recover from their exhaustion, they would have been ready to drive the
foe, but they were hotly pursued by the confederates, who were continually receiving re-enforcements.
It was soon evident that the confederates intended to gain the rear and capture the whole of
the Union troops. The Federals, therefore, began to retire leisurely.

Says the confederate account:

     "General Forrest directed General Buford to open vigorously
     when he heard Bell on the left, and, taking with him his
     escort and Bell's Brigade, moved rapidly around
     southeastward to the Guntown-Ripley road. He formed Wilson's
     and Russel's Regiments on the right of the road, extending
     to Rucker's left, and placed Newsom's Regiment on the left
     of the road; Duffs Regiment, of Rucker's Brigade, was placed
     on the left of Newsom; Captain H. A. Tyler, commanding
     Company A, Twelfth Kentucky, was ordered by Lyon and
     subsequently by Forrest to take his company, with Company C,
     Seventh Kentucky, and keep mounted on the extreme left of
     the line. The escort, under Captain Jackson, moved around
     the extreme left of the line, and on striking the Baldwyn
     and Pontotoc road about two miles south of the cross roads
     had a sharp skirmish and pressed the enemy's cavalry back to
     where Tishamingo creek crosses that road; here it was joined
     by Captain Gartrell's Georgia company and a Kentucky
     company. By mutual agreement Captain Jackson, of the escort,
     was placed in command of the three companies and Lieutenant
     George L. Cowan in command of the escort. Meanwhile General
     Buford had ordered Barteau's Second Tennessee Cavalry to
     move across the country and gain the Federal rear, and if
     possible destroy their trains and then strike them in
     flank."

The gallant conduct of the Federal cavalry inspired the other troops. They made a stand, and
for awhile advanced, driving the confederate line before them on the right, doubling it up
and gaining the rear.

The same writer says:

     "It was at this critical moment an officer of Bell's staff
     dashed up to General Forrest, very much excited, and said:
     'General Forrest, the enemy flanked us and are now in our
     rear. What shall be done?' Forrest, turning in his saddle,
     very coolly replied: 'We'll whip these in our front and
     then turn around, and wont we be in their rear? And then
     we'll whip them fellows!' pointing in the direction of the
     force said to be in his rear. Jackson and Tyler, charging on
     the extreme left, drove back two colored regiments of
     infantry upon their main line at the cross roads. In this
     charge the gallant Captain Tyler was severely wounded.

     "Meanwhile the Federals, with desperation, hurled a double
     line of battle, with the four guns at Brice's house
     concentrated upon Rucker and Bell, which for a moment seemed
     to stagger and make them waver. In this terrible onslaught
     the accomplished Adjutant, Lieutenant W. S. Pope, of the
     Seventh Tennessee, was killed, and a third of his regiment
     was killed and wounded. Soon another charge was sounded.
     Lieutenant Tully Brown was ordered, with his section of
     three-inch rifles, close on the front at the Porter house,
     from which position he hurled a thousand pounds of cold iron
     into their stubborn lines. A section of twelve-pounder
     howitzers, under Lieutenant B. F. Haller, pressed still
     further to the front and within a stone's throw almost of
     the enemy's line. Mayson's section of three-inch rifles were
     quickly placed in line with Haller's. Just then, General
     Buford, riding up and seeing no support to the artillery,
     called General Forrest's attention to the fact, when Forrest
     remarked: 'Support, h--l; let it support itself; all the
     d--n Yankees in the country can't take it."'

The lines were now closing upon each other, and the confederates began to feel the effect of
the Union fire. The dash of the Phalanx, charging the enemy's flank, gave renewed courage to
the troops, now pouring deadly volleys into the confederate's faces, and their guns had gained
a position, from which they began to sweep the enemy's lines.

Says the same account:

     "Now rose the regular incessant volleys of musketry and
     artillery. The lines in many places were not over thirty
     paces apart and pistols were freely used. The smoke of
     battle almost hid the combatants. The underbrush and dense
     black-jack thickets impeded the advance of the dismounted
     cavalry as the awful musketry fire blazed and gushed in the
     face of these gallant men. Every tree and brush was barked
     or cut to the ground by this hail of deadly missiles. It was
     here the accomplished and gallant William H. Porter, brother
     of Major Thomas K. and Governor James D. Porter, fell
     mortally wounded. This promising young officer had not
     attained his manhood. He was a cadet in the regular
     Confederate States army and had been ordered to report to
     General Bell, who assigned him to duty as A. D. C. Captain
     J. L. Bell, General Bell's Assistant Inspector-General, had
     just been killed from his horse, and almost at the same
     moment young Porter lost his own horse and just mounted
     Captain Bell's when he received the fatal shot. Lieutenant
     Isaac Bell, aide-de-camp of Bell's staff, was severely
     wounded. The loss in officers right here was very heavy;
     sixteen were killed and sixty-one wounded. Captain Ab Hust,
     a mere boy, who commanded Bell's escort, rendered most
     efficient service at this critical juncture, and Major Tom
     Allison, the fighting Quartermaster of Bell's Brigade, was
     constantly by the side of his fearless commander, and in
     this terrible loss in staff officers his presence was most
     opportune.

     "Like a prairie on fire the battle raged and the volleying
     thunder can be likened in my mind to nothing else than the
     fire of Cleburne's Division at Chickamauga, on that terrible
     Saturday at dusk. At length the enemy's lines wavered,
     Haller and Mayson pressed their guns by hand to within a
     short distance of Brice's house, firing as they advanced.
     Bell, Lyon and Rucker now closed in on the cross roads and
     the Federals gave way in disorder, abandoning three guns
     near Brice's house. General Sturgis, in his official report
     of the fight, says: 'We had four pieces of artillery at the
     cross roads. * * * Finding our troops were being hotly
     pressed, I ordered one section to open on the enemy's
     reserves. The enemy's artillery soon replied, and with great
     accuracy, every shell bursting over and in the immediate
     vicinity of our guns.' A shell from one of the Confederate
     guns struck the table in Brice's porch, was used by General
     Sturgis, stunning that officer."

The terrible struggle which now ensued was not surpassed, according to an eye-witness, by the
fighting of any troops. The Phalanx were determined, if courage could do it, to whip the men
who had so dastardly massacred the garrison of Fort Pillow. This fact was known to Forrest,
Buford and their troops, who fought like men realizing that anything short of victory was death,
and well may they have thus thought, for every charge the Phalanx made meant annihilation.
They, too, accepted the portentous fiat, victory or death.

Though more than twenty years have passed since this bloody fight, yet the chief of the confederate
artillery portrays the situation in these words:

     "Is was soon evident that another strong line had formed
     behind the fence by the skirt of woods just westward of
     Phillips' branch. General Forrest riding up, dismounted and
     approached our guns, which were now plying shell and solid
     shot. With his field glasses he took in the situation. The
     enemy's shot were coming thick and fast; leaden balls were
     seen to flatten as they would strike the axles and tires of
     our gun carriages; trees were barked and the air was ladened
     with the familiar but unpleasant sound of these death
     messengers.

     "Realizing General Forrest's exposure, we involuntarily
     ventured the suggestion that, 'You had better get lower down
     the hill, General.' Instantly we apologized, as we expected
     the General to intimate that it was none of our business
     where he went. He, however, stepped down the hill out of
     danger and seating himself behind a tree, seemed for a few
     moments in deep study, but soon the head of our cavalry
     column arriving, he turned to me and said: 'Captain, as soon
     as you hear me open on the right and flank of the enemy over
     yonder,' pointing to the enemy's position, 'charge with your
     artillery down that lane and cross the branch.' The genial
     and gallant Captain Rice coming up at this time and hearing
     the order, turned to me and said: 'By G--d! whoever heard of
     artillery charging?' Captain Brice's Battery had been
     stationed at Columbus, Miss., and other points on local
     duty, and only a few months previous had been ordered and
     assigned to our command. He accepted his initiation into the
     ways and methods of horse artillery with much spirit and
     good grace.

     "Meanwhile, watching Forrest at the head of the cavalry
     moving through the woods and across the field in the
     direction of the enemy's right, I directed Lieutenants
     Tully, Brown and H. H. Briggs, whose sections had been held
     in the road below the Hadden house for an emergency, to be
     ready to move into action at a moments notice. The enemy,
     observing our cavalry passing to their right, began to break
     and retire through the woods. Forrest, seeing this, dashed
     upon them in column of fours. At the same moment Lieutenant
     Brown pressed his section down the road, even in advance of
     the skirmish line, and opened a terrific fire upon the
     enemy, now breaking up and in full retreat. Lieutenant
     Briggs also took an advanced position and got in a few
     well-directed shots. Brown's section and a section of Rice's
     Battery were pushed forward across Phillips' branch and up
     the hill under a sharp fire, the former taking position on
     the right of the road and the latter in the road just where
     the road turns before reaching Dr. Agnew's house.

     "Our skirmishers had driven the enemy's skirmishers upon
     their main line, when we were about to make another
     artillery charge, but distinctly hearing the Federal
     officers giving orders to their men to stand steady and
     yell, 'Remember Fort Pillow.' 'Charge! charge! charge!' ran
     along their lines, and on they came. Our right was pressed
     back on the 'negro avengers of Fort Pillow.' They moved
     steadily upon our guns and for a moment their loss seemed
     imminent. Our cannoneers, standing firm and taking in the
     situation, drove double-shotted cannister into this
     advancing line. The cavalry rallying on our guns sent death
     volleys into their ranks, which staggered the enemy and
     drove them back, but only to give place to a new line that
     now moved down upon us with wild shouts and got almost
     within hand-shaking distance of our guns.

     "Lyon coming up opportunely at this moment formed his
     brigade on our right, and springing forward with loud
     cheers, hurled them back with so stormful an onset that
     their entire line gave way in utter rout and confusion.
     Lieutenant Brown's horse was shot under him. The gallant
     young soldier, Henry King, of Rice's Battery, fell with his
     rammer staff in hand, mortally wounded. His grave now marks
     the spot where he fell. Several members of the artillery
     were wounded and a great many battery horses were killed.
     The reason for this desperate stand was soon discovered. The
     road was filled with their wagons, ambulances and many
     caissons, the dying and wounded. Cast-away arms,
     accoutrements, baggage, dead animals and other evidences of
     a routed army were conspicuous on every side. The sun had
     set, but the weary and over-spent Confederates maintained
     the pursuit for some five or six miles beyond and until it
     became quite too dark to go further. A temporary halt was
     ordered, when a section from each battery was directed to be
     equipped with ammunition and the best horses from their
     respective batteries and be ready to continue the pursuit at
     daylight."

The rout was all the enemy could desire, the Federals fought with a valor creditable to any
troops, but were badly worsted, through the incompetency of Sturgis. They were driven back
to Ripley, in a most disastrously confused state, leaving behind their trains, artillery, dead
and wounded. But for the gallantry of the Phalanx, the enemy would have captured the entire force.

The same writer describes the rout:

     "Johnson, pressing his brigade forward upon the enemy's
     position at Brice's Quarter, with Lyon supporting the
     artillery in the road below Brice's house, the position was
     soon captured with many prisoners and three pieces of
     artillery. Hallers and Mayson's sections were moved up at a
     gallop and established on the hill at Brice's Quarter and
     opened a destructive fire with double-shotted cannister upon
     the enemy's fleeing columns and wagon trains. The bridge
     over Tishamingo creek, still standing, was blocked up with
     wagons, some of whose teams had been killed. Finding the
     bridge thus obstructed the enemy rushed wildly into the
     creek, and as they emerged from the water on the opposite
     bank in an open field, our artillery played upon them for
     half a mile, killing and disabling large numbers. Forrests
     escort, under the dashing Lieutenant Cowan, having become
     detached in the meantime, had pressed around to the west
     side of the creek and south of the Ripley road, and here
     made one of its characteristic charges across an open field
     near the gin house, upon the enemy's wagon train, capturing
     several wagons.

     "Meanwhile Barteau was not idle. He had moved his regiment,
     as we have stated, across to get in the enemy's rear, and in
     his own language says: 'I took my regiment across the
     country westward, to reach the Ripley road, on which the
     enemy was moving, and being delayed somewhat in passing
     through a swampy bottom, I did not reach that road, at
     Lyon's gin, three miles from Brice's Cross Roads, until
     probably 1 o'clock. I then learned that the last of the
     Federal regiments, with all their train, had passed by rapid
     march, and as there was now a lull in the engagement (for I
     had been hearing sharp firing in front), I greatly feared
     that Forrest was defeated and that the Federals were pushing
     him back, so I moved rapidly down the road till I reached
     the open field near the bridge.'

     "This could not have been the Ripley Guntown road, as that
     road was filled with Federal troops, wagons and artillery
     from Dr. Agnew's house to the cross roads, a distance of two
     miles. 'Having placed some sharpshooters, whose sole
     attention was to be directed to the bridge,' he continues,
     'I extended my line nearly half a mile, and began an attack
     by scattering shots at the same time. Sounding my bugle from
     various points along the line, almost immediately a
     reconnoitering force of the enemy appeared at the bridge,
     and being fired upon returned. This was followed, perhaps,
     by a regiment, and then a whole brigade came down to the
     creek. My men, taking good aim, fired upon them coolly and
     steady. Soon I saw wagons, artillery, etc., pushing for the
     bridge. These were shot at by my sharpshooters. I now began
     to contract my line and collect my regiment, for the
     Federals came pouring in immense numbers across the creek.
     Your artillery was doing good work. Even the bullets from
     the small arms of the Confederates reached my men. I
     operated upon the flank of the enemy until after dark.'

     "The wagons blockading the bridge were soon removed by being
     thrown into the stream and a section from each battery was
     worked across by hand, supported by the escort, and brought
     to bear upon a negro brigade with fearful loss; the other
     two sections were quickly to the front, ahead of any support
     for the moment, and drove the enemy from the ridge back of
     Holland's house across Dry creek. The cavalry in the
     meantime had halted, reorganized and soon joined in the
     pursuit. The road was narrow, with dense woods on each side,
     so that it was impossible to use more than four pieces at a
     time, but that number were kept close upon the heels of the
     retreating enemy and a murderous fire prevented them from
     forming to make a stand.

     "The ridge extending southward from the Hadden house offered
     a strong natural position for defensive operations. Upon
     this ridge the Federals had established a line of battle,
     but a few well directed shots from the artillery stationed
     near the Holland house and a charge by our cavalry across
     Dry creek readily put them to flight. A section of each
     battery was ordered at a gallop to this ridge, which was
     reached in time to open with a few rounds of double-shotted
     cannister upon their demoralized ranks as they hastily
     retreated through the open fields on either side of Phillips
     branch. Our cannoneers were greatly blown and well nigh
     exhausted from excessive heat and continuous labor at their
     guns for full five hours. We noticed a number drink with
     apparant relish the black powder water from the sponge
     buckets."

The enemy followed the fleeing column, capturing and wounding many at the town of Ripley. Next
morning the Federals made a stand. Again the Phalanx bore the brunt of the battle, and when
finally the troops stampeded, held the confederates in check until the white troops were beyond
capture. But this was all they could do, and this was indeed an heroic act.

The confederate says:

     "Long before daylight found us moving rapidly to overtake
     the flying foe. We had changed positions. The cavalry now
     being in advance, overtook the enemy at Stubb's farm; a
     sharp skirmish ensued, when they broke, leaving the
     remainder of their wagon train. Fourteen pieces of artillery
     and some twenty-five ambulances, with a number of wounded,
     were left in Little Hatchie bottom, further on. The
     discomfited Federals were badly scattered throughout the
     country. Forrest, therefore, threw out his regiment on
     either side of the roads to sweep the vicinity. A number
     were killed and many prisoners captured before reaching
     Ripley, twenty-five miles from Brice's Cross Roads. At this
     point two strong lines were formed across the road. After a
     spirited onset the Federals broke, leaving one piece of
     artillery, two caissons, two ambulances. Twenty-one killed
     and seventy wounded were also left on the field. Colonel G.
     M. McCraig, of the One Hundred and Twentieth Illinois
     Infantry, was among the killed; also Captain W. J. Tate,
     Seventh Tennessee Cavalry. This was accomplished just as the
     artillery reached the front.

     "Lieutenant Frank Rodgers, of Rucker's staff, the night
     previous, with a small, select detachment of men, assisted
     by Captain Gooch, with the remnant of his company, hung
     constantly upon the Federal rear, with a daring never
     surpassed. Their series of attacks greatly harrassed and
     annoyed the enemy, numbers of whom were killed and wounded.
     The artillery followed to Salem, twenty-five miles distant
     from Ripley."

The Phalanx regiments would not consent to be whipped, even with the black flag flying in their
front, and deserted by their white comrades. A correspondent of the Cleveland Leader, in giving
an account of this "miserable affair," writes:

     "About sunrise, June 11, the enemy advanced on the town of
     Ripley, and threatened our right, intending to cut us off
     from the Salem Road. Again the colored troops were the only
     ones that could be brought into line; the Fifty-ninth being
     on the right, and the Fifty-fifth on the left, holding the
     streets. At this time, the men had not more than ten rounds
     of ammunition, and the enemy were crowding closer and still
     closer, when the Fifty-ninth were ordered to charge on them,
     which they did in good style, while singing,

          "'We'll rally round the flag, boys.'

     "This charge drove the enemy back, so that both regiments
     retreated to a pine grove about two hundred yards distant.

     "By this time, all the white troops, except one squadron of
     cavalry, that formed in the rear, were on the road to Salem
     and, when this brigade came up, they, too, wheeled and left,
     and in less than ten minutes this now little band of colored
     troops found themselves flanked. They then divided
     themselves into three squads, and charged the enemy's lines;
     one squad taking the old Corinth Road, then a by-road, to
     the left. After a few miles, they came to a road leading to
     Grand Junction. After some skirmishing, they arrived, with
     the loss of one killed and one wounded.

     "Another and the largest squad covered the retreat of the
     white troops, completely defending them by picking up the
     ammunition thrown away by them, and with it repelling the
     numerous assaults made by the rebel cavalry, until they
     reached Collierville, a distance of sixty miles. When the
     command reached Dan's Mills, the enemy attempted to cut it
     off by a charge; but the colored boys in the rear formed,
     and repelled the attack, allowing the whole command to pass
     safely on, when they tore up the bridge. Passing on to an
     open country, the officers halted, and re-organized the
     brigade into an effective force. They then moved forward
     until about four, P. M.; when some Indian flank skirmishers
     discovered the enemy, who came up to the left, and in the
     rear, and halted. Soon a portion advanced, when a company
     faced about and fired, emptying three saddles. From this
     time until dark, the skirmishing was constant.

     "A corporal in Company C, Fifty-ninth, was ordered to
     surrender. He let his would-be captor come close to him;
     when he struck him with the butt of his gun.

     "While the regiment was fighting in a ditch, and the order
     came to retreat, the color-bearer threw out the flag,
     designing to jump out and get it; but the rebels rushed for
     it, and in the struggle one of the boys knocked down with
     his gun the reb who had the flag, caught it, and ran.

     "A rebel, with an oath, ordered one of our men to surrender.
     He, thinking the reb's gun was loaded, dropped his gun; but,
     on seeing the reb commence loading, our colored soldier
     jumped for his gun, and with it struck his captor dead.

     "Capt. H., being surrounded by about a dozen rebels, was
     seen by one of his men, who called several of his
     companions; they rushed forward and fired, killing several
     of the enemy, and rescued their captain.

     "A rebel came up to one, and said, 'Come my good fellow, go
     with me and wait on me.' In an instant, the boy shot his
     would-be master dead.

     "Once when the men charged on the enemy, they rushed forth
     with the cry, 'Remember Fort Pillow.' The rebs called back,
     and said, 'Lee's men killed no prisoners.'

     "One man in a charge threw his antagonist to the ground, and
     pinned him fast; and, as he attempted to withdraw his
     bayonet, it came off his gun, and, as he was very busy just
     then, he left him transfixed to mother earth.

     "One man killed a rebel by striking him with the butt of his
     gun, which he broke; but, being unwilling to stop his work,
     he loaded and fired three times before he could get a better
     gun; the first time not being cautious, the rebound of his
     gun badly cut his lip.

     "When the troops were in the ditch, three rebels came to one
     man, and ordered him to surrender. His gun being loaded, he
     shot one and bayoneted another; and, forgetting he could
     bayonet the third, he turned the butt of his gun, and
     knocked him down."

General Sturgis was severely criticised by the press immediately after the affair. Historians
since the war have followed up these criticisms. He has been accused of incompetency, rashness
and drunkenness, none of which it is the purpose of this volume to endorse. Possibly his reports
furnish a sufficient explanation for the disaster, which it is hoped they do, inasmuch as he
is not charged with either treason or cowardice.

                    [General Sturgis' Report, No. 1.]

                         "HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES FORCES,
                            COLLIERSVILLE, TENN., June 12, 1864.

     "GENERAL:--I have the honor to report that we met the enemy
     in position and in heavy force about 10 A. M. on the 10th
     instant at Brice's Cross-Roads on the Ripley and Fulton road
     and about six miles northwest of Guntown, Miss. A severe
     battle ensued which lasted until about 4 P. M., when I
     regret to say my lines were compelled to give way before the
     overwhelming numbers by which they were assailed at every
     point. To fall back at this point was more than ordinarily
     difficult as there was a narrow valley in our rear through
     which ran a small creek crossed by a single narrow bridge.
     The road was almost impassable by reason of the heavy rains
     which had fallen for the previous ten days and the
     consequence was that the road soon became jammed by the
     artillery and ordnance wagons. This gradually led to
     confusion and disorder.

     "In a few minutes, however, I succeeded in establishing two
     colored regiments in line of battle in a wood on this side
     of the little valley. These troops stood their ground well
     and checked the enemy for a time. The check, however, was
     only temporary and this line in turn gave way. My troops
     were seized with a panic and became absolutely
     uncontrollable. One and a half miles in rear by dint of
     great exertion and with pistol in hand, I again succeeded in
     checking up the flying column and placing it in line of
     battle.

     "This line checked the enemy for ten or fifteen minutes
     only, when it again gave way and my whole army became
     literally an uncontrollable mob. Nothing now remained to do
     but allow the retreat to continue and endeavor to force it
     gradually into some kind of shape. The night was exceedingly
     dark, the roads almost impassable and the hope of saving my
     artillery and wagons altogether futile, so I ordered the
     artillery and wagons to be destroyed. The latter were burned
     and the former dismantled and spiked, that is all but six
     pieces which we succeeded in bringing off in safety. By 7 A.
     M. next morning we reached Ripley (nineteen miles). Here we
     re-organized and got into very respectable shape. The
     retreat was continued, pressed rapidly by the enemy. Our
     ammunition soon gave out, this the enemy soon discovered and
     pressed the harder. Our only hope now lay in continuing the
     retreat which we did to this place, where we arrived about 7
     o'clock this morning.

     "My losses in material of war was severe, being 16 guns and
     some 130 wagons. The horses of the artillery and mules of
     the train we brought away. As my troops became very greatly
     scattered and are constantly coming in in small parties, I
     am unable to estimate my loss in killed and wounded. I fear,
     however, it will prove severe, probably ten or twelve
     hundred. While the battle lasted it was well contested and I
     think the enemy's loss in killed and wounded will not fall
     short of our own.

     "This, general, is a painful record, and yet it was the
     result of a series of unfortunate circumstances over which
     human ingenuity could have no control.

     "The unprecedented rains so delayed our march across a
     desert country that the enemy had ample time to accumulate
     an overwhelming force in our front, and kept us so long in
     an exhausted region as to so starve and weaken our animals
     that they were unable to extricate the wagons and artillery
     from the mud.

     "So far as I know every one did his duty well, and while
     they fought no troops ever fought better. The colored troops
     deserve great credit for the manner in which they stood to
     their work.

     "This is a hasty and rather incoherent outline of our
     operations, but I will forward a more minute account as soon
     as the official reports can be received from division
     commanders.

     "I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your
     obedient servant,

                                     "S. D. STURGIS,

                             "Brig.-Gen. Commanding.

     "To Maj.-Gen. C. C. WASHBURN, Commanding District W. Tenn."

An extract from a letter from Colonel Arthur T. Reeve, who commanded the 55th Colored Infantry
in this fight, reads:

     "Our (the Federal) command having been moved up on
     double-quick--a distance of about five miles--immediately
     before their arrival on the field and the consequent fact
     that this arm of our force went into the engagement very
     seriously blown, in fact, very nearly exhausted by heat and
     fatigue, with their ranks very much drawn out, were whipped
     in detail and overwhelmed by the very brilliant and vigorous
     assaults of your forces. When the engagement first began I
     was at the rear of the Federal column, in command of the
     train guard, and hence passed over the ground on the way to
     the battle-field after the balance of the army had passed,
     and am able to speak advisedly of the extreme exhaustion of
     the infantry, as I passed large numbers entirely prostrated
     by heat and fatigue, who did not reach the field of battle
     and must have fallen into your hands after the engagement."

               [General Sturgis' Report, No. 2.]

                                 "MEMPHIS, TENN., June 24, 1864.

     "Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report of the
     operations of the expedition which marched from near La
     Fayette, Tenn., under my command on the 2nd instant. This
     expedition was organized and fitted out under the
     supervision of the major general commanding the District of
     West Tennessee and I assumed command of it on the morning of
     the 2nd of June, near the town of La Fayette, Tenn., in
     pursuance of Special Orders, No. 38, dated Headquarters,
     District of West Tennessee, Memphis, May 31, 1864, and which
     were received by me on the 1st inst. The strength of the
     command in round numbers was about 8,000 men,' (which
     included the following Phalanx regiments: 59th Regt., 61st
     Regt., 68th Regt., Battery I, 2nd Artillery, (Light,) 2
     pieces.)

     "My supply train, carrying rations for 18 days, consisted of
     181 wagons, which with the regimental wagons made up a train
     of some 250 wagons. My instructions were substantially as
     follows, viz: To proceed to Corinth, Mississippi by way of
     Salem and Ruckersville, capture any force that might be
     there, then proceed south, destroying the Mobile and Ohio
     Railroad to Tupelo and Okolona and as far as possible
     towards Macon and Columbus with a portion of my force,
     thence to Grenada and back to Memphis. A discretion was
     allowed me as to the details of the movement where
     circumstances might arise which could not have been
     anticipated in my instructions. Owing to some
     misunderstanding on the part of the quartermaster, as to the
     point on the Memphis and Charleston Railroad at which some
     forage was to have been deposited from the cars, there was
     some little delay occasioned in getting the column in
     motion.

     "The following incidents of the march are taken from the
     journal kept from day to day by one of my staff, Capt. W. C.
     Rawolle, A. D. C. and A. A. A. G.:

     "'Wednesday, June 1st.--Expedition started from Memphis and
     White's Station toward La Fayette.

     "'Thursday, June 2nd.--The general and staff left Memphis on
     the 5 o'clock A. M. train and established headquarters at
     Leaks' House, near La Fayette, and assumed command. Cavalry
     moved to the intersection of State line and Early Grove
     roads, six miles from La Fayette. It rained at intervals all
     day and part of the night.

     "'Friday, June 3rd.--Ordered the cavalry to move to within
     three four miles of Salem. Infantry marched to Lamar, 18
     miles from La Fayette. Owing to the heavy rains during the
     day and the bad condition of the roads and bridges, the
     train could only move to within four miles of Lamar, and did
     not get into park until 11 o'clock P. M., the colored
     brigade remaining with the train as a guard.

     "'Saturday, June 4th.--Informed General Grierson that the
     infantry and train under the most favorable circumstances
     could only make a few miles beyond Salem and to regulate his
     march accordingly. Train arrived at Lamar about noon, issued
     rations to the infantry and rested the animals. It rained
     heavily until 1 o'clock P. M., making the roads almost
     impassable. Moved headquarters to the Widow Spright's house,
     two miles west of Salem, and Colonel Hoge's brigade of
     infantry to Robinson's house, four miles from Salem.

     "'Sunday, June 5th.--Infantry and train started at half past
     four o'clock A. M., and joined the cavalry, two miles east
     of Salem. At 10 o'clock A. M., issued rations to the cavalry
     and fed the forage collected by them. Infantry remained in
     camp during the day; cavalry moved to the intersection of
     the LaGrange and Ripley and the Salem and Ruckersville
     roads. Col. Joseph Karge, 2nd New Jersey, with 400 men,
     started at 6 P. M., with instructions to move via Ripley to
     Rienzi, to destroy the railroad; to proceed north, destroy
     bridge over Tuscumbia and to join General Grierson at
     Ruckersville. Heavy showers during the afternoon.

     "'Monday, June 6th.--Infantry and train moved at 4 o'clock
     A. M., on the Ruckersville road. Commenced raining at 5 A.
     M., and continued at intervals all day. Progress very slow,
     marched 13 miles and made headquarters at Widow Childers, at
     intersection of the Saulsbury and Ripley and the
     Ruckersville and Salem roads. Cavalry moved to Ruckersville.
     The advance guard of the infantry encountered a small party
     of rebels about noon and chased them towards Ripley on La
     Grange and Ripley roads.

     "'Tuesday, June 7th.--Upon information received from General
     Grierson that there was no enemy near Corinth, directed him
     to move toward Ellistown, on direct road from Ripley, and
     instruct Colonel Karge to join him by way of Blackland or
     Carrollsville. Infantry moved to Ripley and cavalry encamped
     on New Albany road two miles south. Encountered a small
     party of rebels near Widow Childers and drove them toward
     Ripley. In Ripley, met an advance of the enemy and drove
     them on New Albany road. Cavalry encountered about a
     regiment of rebel cavalry on that road and drove them south.
     Several showers during the afternoon, and the roads very
     bad.

     "Wednesday, June 8th.--Received information at 4 o'clock A.
     M. that Colonel Karge was on an island in the Hatchie River
     and sent him 500 men and two howitzers as re-inforcements.
     Winslow's brigade of cavalry moved 6 miles on the Fulton
     Road. Infantry and train moved five miles on same road.
     Colonel Waring's brigade remained in Ripley awaiting return
     of Colonel Karge, who joined him at 5 o'clock P. M., having
     swam the Hatchie River. Rained hard during the night.

     "'Thursday, June 9th.--Sent back to Memphis 400 sick and
     wounded men and 41 wagons. Cavalry and infantry moved to
     Stubbs', fourteen miles from Ripley; issued five days'
     rations (at previous camp.) Rained two hours in the evening.

     "'Friday, June 10th.--Encountered the enemy at Brice's
     Cross-Roads, 23 miles from Ripley and six miles from
     Guntown.'

     "At Ripley it became a serious question in my mind as to
     whether or not I should proceed any farther. The rain still
     fell in torrents; the artillery and wagons were literally
     mired down, and the starved and exhausted animals could with
     difficulty drag them along. Under these circumstances, I
     called together my division commanders and placed before
     them my views of our condition. At this interview, one
     brigade commander and two members of my staff were,
     incidentally, present also. I called their attention to the
     great delay we had undergone on account of the continuous
     rain and consequent bad condition of the roads; the
     exhausted condition of our animals; the great probability
     that the enemy would avail himself of the time thus afforded
     him to concentrate an overwhelming force against us in the
     vicinity of Tupelo and the utter hopelessness of saving our
     train or artillery in case of defeat, on account of the
     narrowness and general bad condition of the roads and the
     impossibility of procuring supplies of forage for the
     animals; all agreed with me in the probable consequences of
     defeat. Some thought our only safety lay in retracing our
     steps and abandoning the expedition. It was urged, however,
     (and with some propriety, too,) that inasmuch as I had
     abandoned a similar expedition only a few weeks before and
     given as my reasons for so doing, the "utter and entire
     destitution of the country," and that in the face of this we
     were again sent through the same country, it would be
     ruinous on all sides to return again without first meeting
     the enemy. Moreover, from all the information General
     Washburn had acquired, there could be no considerable
     force in our front and all my own information led to the
     same conclusion. To be sure my information was exceedingly
     meagre and unsatisfactory and had I returned I would have
     been totally unable to present any facts to justify my
     cause, or to show why the expedition might not have been
     successfully carried forward. All I could have presented
     would have been my conjectures as to what the enemy would
     naturally do under the circumstances and these would have
     availed but little against the idea that the enemy was
     scattered and had no considerable force in our front.

     "Under these circumstances, and with a sad forboding of the
     consequences, I determined to move forward; keeping my force
     as compact as possible and ready for action at all times;
     hoping that we might succeed, and feeling that if we did
     not, yet our losses might at most be insignificant in
     comparison with the great benefits which might accrue to
     General Sherman by the depletion of Johnson's army to so
     large an extent.

     "On the evening of the 8th, one day beyond Ripley, I
     assembled the commanders of infantry brigades at the
     headquarters of Colonel McMillen, and cautioned them as to
     the necessity of enforcing rigid discipline in their camps;
     keeping their troops always in hand and ready to act on a
     moment's notice. That it was impossible to gain any accurate
     or reliable information of the enemy, and that it behooved
     us to move and act constantly as though in his presence.
     That we were now where we might encounter him at any moment,
     and that we must under no circumstances allow ourselves to
     be surprised. On the morning of the 10th, the cavalry
     marched at half-past 5 o'clock and the infantry at seven,
     thus allowing the infantry to follow immediately in rear of
     the cavalry as it would take the cavalry a full hour and a
     half to clear their camp. The habitual order of march was as
     follows, viz: Cavalry with its artillery in advance;
     infantry with its artillery; next, and lastly, the supply
     train, guarded by the rear brigade with one of its regiments
     at the head, one near the middle and one with a section of
     artillery in the rear. A company of pioneers preceded the
     infantry for the purpose of repairing the roads, building
     bridges, &c., &c.

     "On this morning, I had preceded the head of the infantry
     column and arrived at a point some five miles from camp,
     when I found an unusually bad place in the road and one that
     would require considerable time and labor to render
     practicable. While halted here to await the head of the
     column, I received a message from General Grierson that he
     had encountered a portion of the enemy's cavalry. In a few
     minutes more I received another message from him, saying the
     enemy numbered some 600 and were on the Baldwyn road. That
     he was himself at Brice's Cross-Roads and that his position
     was a good one and he would hold it. He was then directed to
     leave 600 or 700 men at the cross-roads, to precede the
     infantry on its arrival, on its march towards Guntown, and
     with the remainder of his forces to drive the enemy toward
     Baldwyn and there rejoin the main body by way of the line of
     the railroad, as I did not intend being drawn from my main
     purpose. Colonel McMillen arrived at this time and I rode
     forward toward the cross-roads. Before proceeding far,
     however, I sent a staff officer back directing Colonel
     McMillen to move up his advance brigade as rapidly as
     possible without distressing his troops. When I reached the
     cross-roads, found nearly all the cavalry engaged and the
     battle growing warm, but no artillery had yet opened on
     either side. We had four pieces of artillery at the
     cross-roads, but they had not been placed in position, owing
     to the dense woods on all sides and the apparent
     impossibility of using them to advantage.

     "Frequent calls were now made for re-enforcements, but until
     the infantry should arrive, I had none to give. Colonel
     Winslow, 4th Iowa Cavalry, commanding a brigade and
     occupying a position on the Guntown road a little in advance
     of the cross-roads, was especially clamorous to be relieved
     and permitted to carry his brigade to the rear. Fearing that
     Colonel Winslow might abandon his position without
     authority, and knowing the importance of the cross-roads to
     us, I directed him in case he should be overpowered, to fall
     back slowly toward the cross-roads, thus contracting his
     line and strengthening his position. I was especially
     anxious on this point because through some misunderstanding,
     that I am yet unable to explain, the cavalry had been
     withdrawn without my knowledge from the left, and I was
     compelled to occupy the line, temporarily, with my escort,
     consisting of about 100 of the 19th Penn. Cavalry. This
     handful of troops under the gallant Lieut.-Colonel Hess,
     behaved very handsomely and held the line until the arrival
     of the infantry. About half-past 1 p. m. the infantry began
     to arrive. Col. Hodge's brigade was the first to reach the
     field and was placed in position by Colonel McMillen, when
     the enemy was driven a little. General Grierson now
     requested authority to withdraw the entire cavalry as it was
     exhausted and well nigh out of ammunition. This I authorized
     as soon as sufficient infantry was in position to permit it
     and he was directed to reorganize his command in the rear
     and hold it ready to operate on the flanks. In the mean time
     I had ordered a section of artillery to be placed in
     position on a knoll near the little bridge, some three or
     four hundred yards in the rear, for the purpose of opposing
     any attempt of the enemy to turn our left. I now went to
     this point to see that my orders had been executed and also
     to give directions for the management and protection of the
     wagon-train. I found the section properly posted and
     supported by the 72nd Ohio Infantry, with two companies
     thrown forward as skirmishers, and the whole under the
     superintendence of that excellent officer, Colonel Wilkins,
     of the 9th Minn. While here, the head of the wagon train,
     which had been reported still a mile and a half in rear,
     arrived. It was immediately ordered into an open field near
     where the cavalry were reorganizing, there to be turned
     round and carried farther toward the rear. The pressure on
     the right of the line was now becoming very great and
     General Grierson was directed to send a portion of his
     cavalry to that point. At this time I received a message
     from Colonel Hodge that he was satisfied that the movement
     on the right was a feint and that the real attack was being
     made on the left. Another section of artillery was now
     placed in position a little to the rear of Colonel Wilkins,
     but bearing on the left of our main line, and a portion of
     the cavalry was thrown out as skirmishers. The cavalry which
     had been sent to the extreme right began now to give way,
     and at the same time the enemy began to appear in force in
     rear of the extreme left, while Colonel McMillen required
     re-enforcements in the centre. I now endeavored to get hold
     of the colored brigade which formed the guard to the train.
     While traversing the short distance to where the head of
     that brigade should be found, the main line began to give
     way at various points; order soon gave way to confusion and
     confusion to panic. I sent an aid to Col. McMillen informing
     him that I was unable to render him any additional
     assistance, and that he must do all in his power with what
     he had to hold his position until I could form a line to
     protect his retreat. On reaching the head of the supply
     train, Lieut.-Colonel Hess was directed to place in position
     in a wood the first regiment of colored troops I could find.
     This was done, and it is due to those troops to say here
     that they stood their ground well and rendered valuable aid
     to Colonel McMillen, who was soon after compelled to
     withdraw from his original line and take up new positions in
     rear. It was now 5 o'clock P. M. For seven hours, these
     gallant officers and men had held their ground against
     overwhelming numbers, but at last overpowered and exhausted
     they were compelled to abandon not only the field, but many
     of their gallant comrades who had fallen to the mercy of the
     enemy. Everywhere the army now drifted toward the rear and
     was soon altogether beyond control. I requested General
     Grierson to accompany me and to aid in checking the fleeing
     column and establishing a new line. By dint of entreaty and
     force and the aid of several officers, whom I called to my
     assistance, with pistols in their hands we at length
     succeeded in checking some 1200 or 1500 and establishing
     them in a line of which Colonel Wilkins, 9th Minnesota, was
     placed in command. About this time it was reported to me
     that Col. McMillen was driving the enemy. I placed but
     little faith in this report, yet disseminated it freely for
     the good effect it might produce upon the troops. In a few
     minutes, however, the gallant Colonel McMillen, sad and
     disheartened, arrived himself, and reported his lines broken
     and in confusion. The new line under Colonel Wilkins also
     gave way soon after and it was now impossible to exercise
     any further control. The road became crowded and jammed with
     troops; the wagons and artillery sinking into the deep mud
     became inextricable and added to the general confusion which
     now prevailed. No power could now check or control the
     panic-stricken mass as it swept toward the rear, led off by
     Colonel Winslow at the head of his brigade of cavalry, and
     who never halted until he had reached Stubbs', ten miles in
     rear. This was the greater pity as his brigade was nearly,
     if not entirely, intact, and might have offered considerable
     resistance to the advancing foe. About 10 o'clock P. M., I
     reached Stubbs' in person, where I found Colonel Winslow and
     his brigade. I then informed him that his was the only
     organized body of men I had been able to find, and directed
     him to add to his own every possible force he could rally,
     as they passed, and take charge of the rear, remaining in
     position until all should have passed. I also informed him
     that on account of the extreme darkness of the night and the
     wretched condition of the road, I had little hope of saving
     anything more than the troops, and directed him therefore to
     destroy all wagons and artillery which he might find
     blocking up the road and preventing the passage of the men.
     In this way about 200 wagons and 14 pieces of artillery were
     lost, many of the wagons being burned and the artillery
     spiked and otherwise mutilated; the mules and horses were
     brought away. By 7 o'clock A. M., of the 11th, we had
     reorganized at Ripley, and the army presented quite a
     respectable appearance, and would have been able to
     accomplish an orderly retreat from that point but for the
     unfortunate circumstances that the cartridge boxes were
     well nigh exhausted. At 7 o'clock the column was again put
     in motion on the Salem road, the cavalry in advance,
     followed by the infantry. The enemy pressed heavily on the
     rear, and there was now nothing left but to keep in motion
     so as to prevent the banking up of the rear, and to pass all
     cross-roads before the enemy could reach them, as the
     command was in no condition to offer determined resistance,
     whether attacked in the front or the rear. At 8 o'clock a.
     m. on the 12th, the column reached Colliersville, worn out
     and exhausted by the fatigues of fighting and marching for
     two days and two nights without rest and without eating.
     About noon of the same day a train arrived from Memphis,
     bringing some 2,000 infantry, commanded by Colonel Wolf, and
     supplies for my suffering men, and I determined to remain
     here until next day for the purpose of resting and affording
     protection to many who had dropped by the wayside, through
     fatigue and other causes. Learning, however, toward evening,
     that the commander at White's Station had information of a
     large force of the enemy approaching that place from the
     southeast, and knowing that my men were in no condition to
     offer serious resistance to an enemy presenting himself
     across my line of march, I informed the general commanding
     the district, by telegraph, that I deemed it prudent to
     continue my march to White's Station. Accordingly, at 9 p.
     m., the column marched again, and arrived at White's Station
     at daylight next morning. This report having already become
     more circumstantial than was anticipated, I have purposely
     omitted the details of our march from Ripley to White's
     Station, as they would extend it to a tiresome length, but
     would respectfully refer you for these to the sub-reports
     herewith enclosed. Casualties are as follows:

     "Killed, 223, wounded, 394; missing, 1623; total, 2240. That
     our loss was great, is true; yet that it was not much
     greater is due in an eminent degree to the personal
     exertions of that model soldier, Col. W. L. McMillen, of the
     95th Ohio Infantry, who commanded the infantry, and to the
     able commanders under him.

     "The strength of the enemy is variously estimated by my most
     intelligent officers at from 15,000 to 20,000 men. A very
     intelligent sergeant who was captured and remained five days
     in the hands of the enemy, reports the number of the enemy
     actually engaged, to have been 12,000, and that two
     divisions of infantry were held in reserve. It may appear
     strange that so large a force of the enemy could be in our
     vicinity and we be ignorant of the fact, but the surprise
     will exist only in the minds of those who are not familiar
     with the difficulty, (I may even say impossibility) of
     acquiring reliable information in the heart of the enemy's
     country. Our movements and numbers are always known to the
     enemy, because every woman and child is one of them, but we,
     as everybody knows who has had any experience in this war,
     can only learn the movements of the enemy and his numbers by
     actually fighting for the information; and in that case the
     knowledge often comes too late.

     "While I will not prolong this already extended report by
     recording individual acts of good conduct, and the names of
     many brave officers and men who deserve mention, but will
     respectfully refer you for these to the reports of division
     and brigade commanders, yet I cannot refrain from expressing
     my high appreciation of the valuable services rendered by
     that excellent and dashing officer, Col. Joseph Karge, of
     the 2nd New Jersey Vols., in his reconnoissance to Corinth
     and his subsequent management of the rear-guard, during a
     part of the retreat, fighting and defending the rear during
     one whole afternoon and throughout the entire night
     following.

     "To the officers of my staff,--Lieut.-Col. J. C. Hess, 19th
     Pa. Cavalry, commanding escort, Capt. W. C. Rawolle, A. D.
     C. and A. A. A. G.; Capt. W. C. Belden, 2nd Iowa Cavalry, A.
     D. C.; Lieut. E. Caulkins 7th Indiana Cavalry, A. D. C.;
     Lieut. Samuel (name illegible) 19th Penn. Cavalry, A. D. C.;
     Lieut. Dement, A. A. Q. M.; Lieut. W. H. Stratton, 7th Ills.
     Cavalry, A. A. C. S.,--whose names appear in no other
     report, I am especially grateful, for the promptness and
     zeal with which my orders were executed at all times and
     often under trying and hazardous circumstances.

     "I am, major, very respectfully your obedient servant,

                                         S. D. STURGIS,
     MAJ. W. H. MORGAN, A. A. G.,     Brig.-Gen. Commanding.
       Hdqrs. Dist. West Tenn., Memphis, Tenn.

     "Amid these scenes we noted the arrival of 95 more men;
     those who had belonged to a raid sent from Memphis, Tenn.,
     under command of General Sturgis, and were attacked and
     badly defeated by the rebel General Forrest, at a place in
     Mississippi. General Sturgis is said to have been
     intoxicated during the engagement, and that just as soon
     as he saw things were likely to go against him, he turned
     away with a portion of his cavalry, and sought to save
     himself from capture.--'Life and Death in Rebel
     Prisons.'"

Notwithstanding the arrangements usually and speedily entered into by two belligerent powers
for the exchange of prisoners of war, it proved a most difficult task for the Federal Government
to consummate an arrangement with the confederates, and much suffering was caused among the
prisoners in the hands of the latter while negotiations were in progress. The agreement entered
into by the commissioners, after a long delay, did not anticipate there being any black soldiers
to exchange; nor would the confederate authorities thereafter allow the terms of the cartel
to apply to the blacks, because Jefferson Davis and the confederate Congress regarded it as
an outrage against humanity, and the rules of civilized warfare to arm the negroes against
their masters.

It was a year after the black soldiers had become a part of the Union forces before even a
quasi acknowledgment of their rights as prisoners was noted in Richmond. The grounds upon which
the greatest difficulty lingered was the refusal of the Federal government at first to accord
belligerent rights to the confederates but this difficulty was finally overcome in July, 1862,
and the exchange of prisoners proceeded with until the confederate authorities refused to count
the black soldiers captured in the interpretation of the cartel. But the time arrived when
Grant assumed command of the armies, when it was no longer an open question, for the confederate
Congress began devising plans for arming the slaves.

However, the inhuman treatment did not cease with "irresponsible parties," whose conduct was
doubtless approved by the rebel authorities, Jefferson Davis having declared General Butler
an outlaw, and committed him and his officers and black soldiers to the mercy of a chivalry
which affected to regard them as mercenaries. With this spirit infused in the confederate army,
what else than barbarity could be expected?

FOOTNOTES:

[28] Among the captured rebel flags now in the War Department, Washington, D. C., are several
Black Flags. No. 205 was captured near North Mountain, Md., Aug. 1st, 1864. Another Captured
from General Pillow's men at Fort Donelson, is also among the rebel archives in that Department.
Several of them were destroyed by the troops capturing them, as at Pascagoula, Miss., and near
Grand Gulf on the Mississippi.

[29] General Brisbin, in his account of the expedition which, in the Winter of 1864, left Bean
Station, Tenn., under command of General Stoneman, for the purpose of destroying the confederate
Salt Works in West Virginia, says the confederates after capturing some of the soldiers of
the Sixth Phalanx Cavalry Regiment, butchered them. His statement is as follows:

"For the last two days a force of Confederate cavalry, under Witcher, had been following our
command picking up stragglers and worn-out horses in our rear. Part of our troops were composed
of negroes and these the Confederates killed as fast as they caught them, laying the dead bodies
by the roadside with pieces of paper pinned to their clothing, on which were written such warnings
as the following: 'This is the way we treat all nigger soldiers,' and, 'This is the fate of
nigger soldiers who fight against the South.' We did not know what had been going on in our
rear until we turned about to go back from Wytheville, when we found the dead colored soldiers
along the road as above described. General Burbridge was very angry and wanted to shoot a Confederate
prisoner for every one of his colored soldiers he found murdered, and would undoubtedly have
done so had he not been restrained. As it was, the whole corps was terribly excited by the
atrocious murders committed by Witcher's men, and if Witcher had been caught he would have
been shot."

This gallant soldier,(?) twenty years after the close of the war, writes about the incidents
and happenings during the march of the army to Saltville, and says:

"Before we reached Marion we encountered Breckenridge's advance and charged it vigorously driving
it back in confusion along the Marion and Saltville road for several miles. In one of these
charges (for there were several of them and a sort of running fight for several miles) one
of Witcher's men was captured and brought in. He was reported to me and I asked him what his
name was and to what command he belonged. He gave me his name and said 'Witcher's command.'
Hardly were the words out of his mouth before a negro soldier standing near raised his carbine
and aimed at the Confederate soldier's breast. I called out and sprang forward, but was too
late to catch the gun. The negro fired and the poor soldier fell badly wounded. Instantly the
negro was knocked down by our white soldiers, disarmed and tied. I drew my revolver to blow
his brains out for his terrible crime, but the black man never flinched. All he said was, pointing
to the Confederate soldier, 'He killed my comrades; I have killed him.' The negro was taken
away and put among the prisoners. The Provost Marshal had foolishly changed the white guard
over the prisoners and placed them under some colored troops. An officer came galloping furiously
to the front and said the negroes were shooting the prisoners. General Burbridge told me to
go back quickly and do whatever I pleased in his name to restore order. It was a lively ride,
as the prisoners were more than four miles back, being forced along the road as rapidly as
possible toward Marion. All the prisoners, except a few wounded men, were on foot, and of course
they could not keep up with the cavalry. I soon reached them and never shall I forget that
sight while I live. Men with sabres were driving the poor creatures along the road like beasts.
I halted the motley crew and scolded the officer for his inhumanity. He said he had orders
to keep the prisoners up with the column and he was simply trying to obey his orders. As I
was General Burbridge's chief of staff and all orders were supposed to emanate from my office,
I thought I had better not continue the conversation. As it was, I said such orders were at
an end and I would myself take charge of the prisoners."

[30] "When the successful attempt was made, by tunneling, to escape from Libby Prison in 1862,
many of the fugitives were honorably harbored by this unfortunate class till a more quiet opportunity
occurred for leaving the city. This I have from one of the escaped officers."

CHAPTER XI.

THE PHALANX IN VIRGINIA.

The laurels won by the Phalanx in the Southern States, notwithstanding the "no quarter" policy,
was proof of its devotion to the cause of liberty and the old flag, which latter, until within
a short period had been but a symbol of oppression to the black man; Cailloux had reddened
it with his life's blood, and Carney, in a seething fire had planted it on the ramparts of
Wagner. The audacious bravery of the Phalanx had wrung from Generals Banks and Gillmore congratulatory
orders, while the loyal people of the nation poured out unstinted praises. Not a breach of
discipline marred the negro soldier's record; not one cowardly act tarnished their fame. Grant
pronounced them gallant and reliable, and Weitzel was willing to command them.

In New York City, where negroes had been hung to lamp posts, and where a colored orphan asylum
had been sacked and burned, crowds gathered in Broadway and cheered Phalanx regiments on their
way to the front. General Logan, author of the Illinois Black Code, greeted them as comrades,
and Jefferson Davis finally accorded to them the rights due captured soldiers as prisoners
of war. Congress at last took up the question of pay, and placed the black on an equal footing
with the white soldiers. Their valor, excelled by no troops in the field, had finally won full
recognition from every quarter, and henceforth they were to share the full glory as well as
the toils of their white comrades-in-arms. Not until those just rights and attentions were
attained, was the Phalanx allowed, to any great extent, to show its efficiency and prowess
in the manoeuvres in Virginia and vicinity, where that magnificent "Army of Northern Virginia,"
the hope and the pride of the Confederacy, was operating against the Federal government. But
when General Grant came to direct the movements of the Eastern armies of the United States,
there was a change. He had learned from his experience at Vicksburg and other places in his
western campaigns, that the negro soldiers were valuable; that they could be fully relied upon
in critical times, and their patriotic zeal had made a deep impression upon him. Therefore,
as before stated, there were changes, and quite a good many Phalanx regiments--numbering about
20,000 men--were taken from Southern and Western armies and transferred to the different armies
in Virginia.

The 19th Army Corps sent one brigade. General Gillmore brought a brigade from the Tenth Army
Corps. At least ten thousand of them were veterans, and had driven many confederates out of
their breastworks.

The world never saw such a spectacle as America presented in the winter and early spring of
1864. The attempt to capture Richmond and Petersburg had failed. The Army of the Potomac lay
like a weary lion under cover, watching its opponent. Bruised, but spirited and defiant, it
had driven, and in turn had been driven time and again, by its equally valient foe. It had
advanced and retreated until the soldiers were foot-sore from marching and counter-marching,
crossing and re-crossing the now historic streams of the Old Dominion. Of all this, the loyal
people were tired and demanded of the Administration a change. The causes of the failures to
take the confederate capitol were not so much the fault of the commanders of the brave army
as that of the authorities at Washington, whose indecision and interference had entailed almost
a disgrace upon McClellan, Hooker, Burnside and Meade. But finally the people saw the greatest
of the difficulties, and demanded its removal, which the Administration signified its willingness
to do. Then began an activity at the North, East and West, such as was never before witnessed.
The loyal heart was again aroused by the President's call for troops, and all realized the
necessity of a more sagacious policy, and the importance of bringing the war to a close. The
lion of the South must be bearded in his lair, and forced to surrender Richmond, the Confederate
Capitol, that had already cost the Government millions of dollars, and the North thousands
of lives. The cockade city,--Petersburg,--like the Gibralter of the Mississippi, should haul
down the confederate banner from her breastworks; in fact, Lee must be vanquished. That was
the demand of the loyal nation, and right well did they enter into preparations to consummate
it; placing brave and skillful officers in command.

The whole North became a recruiting station. Sumner, Wilson, Stevens and Sherman, in Congress,
and Greeley, Beecher, Philips and Curtis, with the press, had succeeded in placing the fight
upon the highest plane of civilization, and linked freedom to the cause of the Union thus making
the success of one the success of the other,--"Liberty and Union, one and inseparable." What
patriotism should fail in accomplishing, bounties--National, State, county, city and township--were
to induce and effect. The depleted ranks of the army were filled to its maximum, and with a
hitherto victorious and gallant leader would be hurled against the fortifications of the Confederacy
with new energy and determination.

Early in January, General Burnside was ordered again to take command of the Ninth Army Corps,
and to recruit its strength to fifty thousand effective men, which he immediately began to
do. General Butler, then in command of the Department of Virginia and North Carolina, began
the organization of the Army of the James, collecting at Norfolk, Portsmouth and on the Peninsula,
the forces scattered throughout his Department, and to recruit Phalanx regiments. In March,
General Grant was called to Washington, and received the appointment of Lieutenant General,
and placed in command of the armies of the Republic. He immediately began their reorganization,
as a preliminary to attacking Lee's veteran army of northern Virginia.

As has before been stated, the negro had, up to this time, taken no very active part in the
battles fought in Virginia. The seed of prejudice sown by Generals McDowell and McClellan at
the beginning of hostilities, had ripened into productive fruit. The Army of the Potomac being
early engaged in apprehending and returning runaway slaves to their presumed owners, had imbibed
a bitter, unrelenting hatred for the poor, but ever loyal, negro. To this bitterness the Emancipation
Proclamation gave a zest, through the pro-slavery press at the North, which taunted the soldiers
with "fighting to free the negroes." This feeling had served to practically keep the negro,
as a soldier, out of the Army of the Potomac.

General Burnside, upon assuming his command, asked for and obtained permission from the War
Department to raise and unite a division of Negro troops to the 9th Army Corps. Annapolis,
Md., was selected as the "depot and rendezvous," and very soon Camp Stanton had received its
allowance of Phalanx regiments for the Corps. Early in April, the camp was broken, and the
line of march taken for Washington. It was rumored throughout the city that the 9th Corps would
pass through there, and that about 6,000 Phalanx men would be among the troops. The citizens
were on the qui vive; members of Congress and the President were eager to witness the passage
of the Corps.

At nine o'clock on the morning of the 25th of April, the head of the column entered the city,
and at eleven the troops were marching down New York Avenue. Halting a short distance from
the corner of 14th street, the column closed up, and prepared to pay the President a marching
salute, who, with General Burnside and a few friends, was awaiting their coming. Mr. Lincoln
and his party occupied a balcony over the entrance of Willard's Hotel. The scene was one of
great beauty and animation. The day was superbly clear; the soft atmosphere of the early spring
was made additionally pleasant by a cool breeze; rain had fallen the previous night, and there
was no dust to cause discomfort to the soldiers or spectators. The troops marched and appeared
well; their soiled and battered flags bearing inscriptions of battles of six States. The corps
had achieved almost the first success of the war in North Carolina; it had hastened to the
Potomac in time to aid in rescuing the Capitol, when Lee made his first Northern invasion;
it won glory at South Mountain, and made the narrow bridge at Antietam, forever historic; it
had likewise reached Kentucky in time to aid in driving the confederates from that State. Now
it appeared with recruited ranks, and new regiments of as good blood as ever was poured out
in the cause of right; and with a new element--those whom they had helped set free from the
thraldom of slavery--whom they were proud to claim as comrades.

Their banners were silent, effective witnesses of their valor and their sacrifices; Bull's
Run, Ball's Bluff, Roanoke, Newburn, Gaines' Mills, Mechanicsville, Seven Pines, Savage Station,
Glendale, Malvern, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Antietam, South Mountain, Knoxville, Vicksburg,
Port Hudson and Gettysburg, were emblazoned in letters of gold. The firm and soldierly bearing
of the veterans, the eager and expectant countenances of the men and officers of the new regiments,
the gay trappings of the cavalry, the thorough equipment and fine condition of the artillery,
the clattering of hoofs, the clanking of sabres, the drum-beat, the bugle call, and the music
of the bands were all subjects of interest. The President beheld the scene. Pavement, sidewalks,
windows and roofs were crowded with people. A division of veterans passed, saluting the President
and their commander with cheers. And then, with full ranks--platoons extending from sidewalk
to sidewalk--brigades which had never been in battle, for the first time shouldered arms for
their country; they who even then were disfranchised and were not American citizens, yet they
were going out to fight for the flag. Their country was given them by the tall, pale, benevolent
hearted man standing upon the balcony. For the first time, they beheld their benefactor. They
were darker hued than their veteran comrades, but they cheered as lustily, "hurrah, hurrah,
hurrah for Massa Linkun! Three cheers for the President!" They swung their caps, clapped their
hands and shouted their joy. Long, loud and jubilant were the rejoicings of these redeemed
sons of Africa. Regiment after regiment of stalwart men,--slaves once, but freemen now,--with
steady step and even ranks, passed down the street, moving on to the Old Dominion. It was the
first review of the negro troops by the President. Mr. Lincoln himself seemed greatly pleased,
and acknowledged the plaudits and cheers of the Phalanx soldiers with a dignified kindness
and courtesy. It was a spectacle which made many eyes grow moist, and left a life-long impression.
Thus the corps that had never lost a flag or a gun, marched through the National Capitol, crossed
long bridge and went into camp near Alexandria, where it remained until the 4th of May.

The Phalanx regiments composing the 4th division were the 19th, 23rd, 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th,
31st, 39th and 43rd, commanded by General E. Ferrero.

The Army of the James, under General Butler, which was to act in conjunction with the Army
of the Potomac, under Meade, was composed of the 10th and 18th Corps. The 10th Corps had two
brigades of the Phalanx, consisting of the 7th, 9th, 29th, 16th, 8th, 41st, 45th and 127th
Regiments, commanded by Colonels James Shaw, Jr., and Ulysses Doubleday, and constituted the
3rd division of that Corps commanded by Brigadier-General Wm. Birney.

The 3rd division of the 18th Corps, commanded by Brigadier-General Charles G. Paine, was composed
of the 1st, 22nd, 37th, 5th, 36th, 38th, 4th, 6th, 10th, 107th, 117th, 118th and 2nd Cavalry,
with Colonels Elias Wright, Alonzo G. Draper, John W. Ames and E. Martindale as brigade commanders
of the four brigades. A cavalry force numbering about two thousand, comprising the 1st and
2nd, was under command of Colonel West,[31] making not less than 20,000 of the Phalanx troops,
including the 4th Division with the Ninth Corps, and augmenting Butler's force to 47,000, concentrated
at Yorktown and Gloucester Point.

On the 28th of April, Butler received his final orders, and on the night of the 4th of May
embarked his troops on transports, descended the York river, passed Fortress Monroe and ascended
the James River. Convoyed by a fleet of armored war vessels and gunboats, his transports reached
Bermuda Hundreds on the afternoon of the 5th. General Wilde, with a brigade of the Phalanx,
occupied Fort Powhatan, on the south bank of the river, and Wilson's Wharf, about five miles
below on the north side of the James, with the remainder of his division of 5,000 of the Phalanx.
General Hinks landed at City Point, at the mouth of the Appomattox. The next morning the troops
advanced to Trent's, with their left resting on the Appomattox, near Walthall, and the right
on the James, and intrenched. In the meantime, Butler telegraphed Grant:

                                    "OFF CITY POINT, VA., May 5th.

     "LIEUT. GEN. GRANT, Commanding Armies of the United States,
                                      Washington, D. C.:

     "We have seized Wilson's Wharf Landing; a brigade of Wilde's
     colored troops are there; at Fort Powhatan landing two
     regiments of the same brigade have landed. At City Point,
     Hinks' division, with the remaining troops and battery, have
     landed. The remainder of both the 18th and 10th Army Corps
     are being landed at Bermuda Hundreds, above Appomattox. No
     opposition experienced thus far, the movement was
     comparatively a complete surprise. Both army corps left
     Yorktown during last night. The monitors are all over the
     bar at Harrison's landing and above City Point. The
     operations of the fleet have been conducted to-day with
     energy and success. Gens. Smith and Gillmore are pushing the
     landing of the men. Gen. Graham with the army gunboats, lead
     the advance during the night, capturing the signal station
     of the rebels. Colonel West, with 1800 cavalry, made several
     demonstrations from Williamsburg yesterday morning. Gen.
     Rantz left Suffolk this morning with his cavalry, for the
     service indicated during the conference with the
     Lieut.-General. The New York flag-of-truce boat was found
     lying at the wharf with four hundred prisoners, whom she had
     not time to deliver. She went up yesterday morning. We are
     landing troops during the night, a hazardous service in the
     face of the enemy.

                                "BENJ. F. BUTLER,

     "A. F. PUFFER, Capt. and A. D. C.   Maj.-Gen. Commanding."

About two miles in front of their line ran the Richmond & Petersburg Railroad, near which the
enemy was encountered. Butler's movements being in concert with that of the Army of the Potomac
and the 9th Corps,--the latter as yet an independent organization.

General Meade, with the Army of the Potomac, numbering 120,000 effective men, crossed the Rapidan
en route for the Wilderness, each soldier carrying fifty rounds of ammunition and three days
rations. The supply trains were loaded with ten days forage and subsistence. The advance was
in two columns, General Warren being on the right and General Hancock on the left. Sedgwick
followed closely upon Warren and crossed the Rapidan at Germania Ford. The Ninth Corps received
its orders on the 4th, whereupon General Burnside immediately put the Corps in motion toward
the front. Bivouacking at midnight, the line of march was again taken up at daylight, and at
night the Rapidan was crossed at Germania Ford. The corps marched on a road parallel to that
of its old antagonist, General Longstreet's army, which was hastening to assist Lee, who had
met the Army of the Potomac in the entanglements of the wilderness, where a stubborn and sanguinary
fight raged for two days. General Ferrero's division, composed of the Phalanx regiments, reached
Germania Ford on the morning of the 6th, with the cavalry, and reported to General Sedgwick,
of the 6th Corps, who had the care of the trains. The enemy was projecting an attack upon the
rear of the advancing columns. Gen. Ferrero was ordered to guard with his Phalanx division,
the bridges, roads and trains near and at the Rapidan river. That night the confederates attacked
Sedgwick in force; wisely the immense supply trains had been committed to the care of the Phalanx,
and the enemy was driven back before daylight, while the trains were securely moved up closer
to the advance. General Grant, finding that the confederates were not disposed to continue
the battle, began the movement toward Spottsylvania Court House on the night of the 7th. The
9th Corps brought up the rear, with the Phalanx division and cavalry covering the trains.

Butler and his Phalanx troops, as we have seen, was within six miles of Petersburg, and on
the 7th, Generals Smith and Gillmore reached the railroad near Port Walthall Junction, and
commenced destroying it; the confederates attacked them, but were repulsed. Col. West, on the
north side of the James River, forded the Chickahominy with the Phalanx cavalry, and arrived
opposite City Point, having destroyed the railroad for some distance on that side.

Leaving General Hinks with his Phalanx division to hold City Point, on the 9th Butler again
moved forward to break up the railroad which the forces under Smith and Gillmore succeeded
in doing, thus separating Beaureguard's force from Lee's. He announced the result of his operation's
in the following message to Washington:

     "May 9th, 1864.

     "Our operations may be summed up in a few words. With one
     thousand and seven hundred cavalry we have advanced up the
     Peninsula, forced the Chickahominy and have safely brought
     them to our present position. These were colored cavalry,
     and are now holding our advanced pickets toward Richmond.
     General Kautz, with three thousand cavalry from Suffolk, on
     the same day with our movement up James river, forced the
     Blackwater, burned the railroad bridge at Stony Creek, below
     Petersburg, cutting in two Beauregard's force at that point.
     We have landed here, intrenched ourselves, destroyed many
     miles of railroad, and got possession, which, with proper
     supplies, we can hold out against the whole of Lee's army. I
     have ordered up the supplies. Beauregard, with a large
     portion of his force, was left south, by the cutting of the
     railroad by Kautz. That portion which reached Petersburg
     under Hill, I have whipped to-day, killing and wounding
     many, and taking many prisoners, after a well contested
     fight. General Grant will not be troubled with any further
     re-inforcements to Lee from Beaureguard's force.

     "BENJ. F. BUTLER, Major-General."

But for having been misinformed as to Lee's retreating on Richmond,--which led him to draw
his forces back into his intrenchments,--Butler would have undoubtedly marched triumphantly
into Petersburg. The mistake gave the enemy holding the approaches to that city time to be
re-enforced, and Petersburg soon became well fortified and garrisoned. Beaureguard succeeded
in a few days time in concentrating in front of Butler 25,000 troops, thus checking the latter's
advance toward Richmond and Petersburg, on the south side of the James, though skirmishing
went on at various points.

General Grant intended to have Butler advance and capture Petersburg, while General Meade,
with the Army of the Potomac, advanced upon Richmond from the north bank of the James river.
Gen. Butler failed to accomplish more than his dispatches related, though his forces entered
the city of Petersburg, captured Chester Station, and destroyed the railroad connection between
Petersburg and Richmond. Failure to support his troops and to intrench lost him all he had
gained, and he returned to his intrenchments at Bermuda Hundreds.

The Phalanx (Hinks division) held City Point and other stations on the river, occasionally
skirmishing with the enemy, who, ever mindful of the fact that City Point was the base of supplies
for the Army of the James, sought every opportunity to raid it, but they always found the Phalanx
ready and on the alert.

After the battle of Drewry's Bluff, May 16th, Butler thought to remain quiet in his intrenchments,
but Grant, on the 22nd, ordered him to send all his troops, save enough to hold City Point,
to join the Army of the Potomac; whereupon General W. F. Smith, with 16,000 men, embarked for
the White House, on the Pamunky river, Butler retaining the Phalanx division and the Cavalry.
Thus ended the operations of the Army of the James, until Grant crossed the river with the
army of the Potomac.

On the 13th of May, Grant determined upon a flank movement toward Bowling Green, with a view
of making Port Royal, instead of Fredericksburg, his depot for supplies. Sending his reserve
artillery to Belle Plain, he prepared to advance. It was in this manoeuvre that Lee, for the
last time, attacked the Federal forces, outside of cover, in any important movement. The attempt
to change the base of supply was indeed a hazardous move for Grant; it necessitated the moving
of his immense train, numbering four thousand wagons, used in carrying rations, ammunition
and supplies for his army, and transportation of the badly wounded to the rear, where they
could be cared for.

Up to this time the Wilderness campaign had been a continuous fight and march. The anxiety
which Grant felt for his train, is perhaps best told by himself:

     "My movements are terribly embarrassed by our immense wagon
     train. It could not be avoided, however."

It was the only means by which the army could obtain needful supplies, and was consequently
indispensable. It was the near approach to the train that made the confederates often fight
so desperately, for they knew if they could succeed in capturing a wagon they would probably
get something to eat. Soon after the advance began, it was reported to Grant, that the confederate
cavalry was in the rear, in search of the trains. On the 14th he ordered General Ferrero to
"keep a sharp lookout for this cavalry, and if you can attack it with your (Phalanx) infantry
and (white) cavalry, do so." On the 19th Ferrero, with his Phalanx division, (4th division,
9th Corps) was on the road to Fredericksburg, in rear of and to the right of General Tyler's
forces, in the confederates' front. The road formed Grant's direct communication with his base,
and here the confederates, under Ewell attacked the Federal troops. Grant sent this dispatch
to Ferrero:

     "The enemy have crossed the Ny on the right of our lines, in
     considerable force, and may possibly detach a force to move
     on Fredericksburg. Keep your cavalry pickets well out on the
     plank road, and all other roads leading west and south of
     you. If you find the enemy moving infantry and artillery to
     you, report it promptly. In that case take up strong
     positions and detain him all you can, turning all your
     trains back to Fredericksburg, and whatever falling back
     you may be forced to do, do it in that direction."

The confederates made a dash for the train and captured twenty-seven wagons, but before they
had time to feast off of their booty the Phalanx was upon them. The enemy fought with uncommon
spirit; it was the first time "F. F. V's," the chivalry of the South,--composing the Army of
Northern Virginia,--had met the negro soldiers, and true to their instinctive hatred of their
black brothers, they gave them the best they had; lead poured like rain for a while, and then
came a lull. Ferrero knew what it meant, and prepared for their coming. A moment more and the
accustomed yell rang out above the roar of the artillery. The confederates charged down upon
the Phalanx, but to no purpose, save to make the black line more stable. They retaliated, and
the confederates were driven as the gale drives chaff, the Phalanx recapturing the wagons and
saving Grant's line of communication. General Badeau, speaking of their action, in his military
history of Grant, says:

     "It was the first time at the East when colored troops had
     been engaged in any important battle, and the display of
     soldierly qualities won a frank acknowledgment from both
     troops and commanders, not all of whom had before been
     willing to look upon negroes as comrades. But after that
     time, white soldiers in the army of the Potomac were not
     displeased to receive the support of black ones; they had
     found the support worth having."

Ferrero had the confidence of his men, who were ever ready to follow where Grant ordered them
to be led.

But this was not the last important battle the Phalanx took part in. Butler, after sending
the larger portion of his forces to join the Army of the Potomac, was not permitted to remain
quiet in his intrenchments. The confederates felt divined to destroy, if not capture, his base,
and therefore were continually striving to break through the lines. On the 24th of May, General
Fitzhugh Lee made a dash with his cavalry upon Wilson's Wharf, Butler's most northern outpost,
held by two Phalanx Regiments of General Wilde's brigade. Lee's men had been led to believe
that it was only necessary to yell at the "niggers" in order to make them leave the Post, but
in this affair they found a foe worthy of their steel. They fought for several hours, when
finally the confederate troops beat a retreat. An eye witness of the fight says:

     "The chivalry of Fitzhugh Lee and his cavalry division was
     badly worsted in the contest last Tuesday with negro troops,
     composing the garrison at Wilson's Landing; the chivalry
     made a gallant fight, however. The battle began at half-past
     twelve P. M., and ended at six o'clock, when the chivalry
     retired, disgusted and defeated. Lee's men dismounted far in
     the rear, and fought as infantry; they drove in the pickets
     and skirmishers to the intrenchments, and made several
     valiant charges upon our works. To make an assault, it was
     necessary to come across an opening in front of our
     position, up to the very edge of a deep and impassable
     ravine. The rebels, with deafening yells, made furious
     onsets, but the negroes did not flinch, and the mad
     assailants, discomforted, returned to cover with shrunken
     ranks. The rebels' fighting was very wicked; it showed that
     Lee's heart was bent on taking the negroes at any cost.
     Assaults on the center having failed, the rebels tried first
     the left, and then the right flank, with no greater success.
     When the battle was over, our loss footed up, one man killed
     outright, twenty wounded, and two missing. Nineteen rebels
     were prisoners in our hands. Lee's losses must have been
     very heavy; the proof thereof was left on the ground.
     Twenty-five rebel bodies lay in the woods unburied, and
     pools of blood unmistakably told of other victims taken
     away. The estimate, from all the evidence carefully
     considered, puts the enemy's casualties at two hundred.
     Among the corpses Lee left on the field, was that of Major
     Breckenridge, of the 2nd Virginia Cavalry. There is no
     hesitation here in acknowledging the soldierly qualities
     which the colored men engaged in the fight have exhibited.
     Even the officers who have hitherto felt no confidence in
     them are compelled to express themselves mistaken. General
     Wilde, commanding the Post, says that the troops stood up to
     their work like veterans."

Newspaper correspondents were not apt to overstate the facts, nor to give too much favorable
coloring to the Phalanx in those days. Very much of the sentiment in the army--East and West--was
manufactured by them. The Democratic partizan press at the North, especially in New York and
Ohio, still engaged in throwing paper bullets at the negro soldiers, who were shooting lead
bullets at the country's foes.

The gallantry and heroic courage of the Phalanx in the Departments of the Gulf and South, and
their bloody sacrifices, had not been sufficient to stop the violent clamor and assertions
of those journals, that the "niggers won't fight!"

Many papers favorable to the Emancipation; opposed putting negro troops in battle in Virginia.
But to all these bomb-proof opinions Grant turned a deaf ear, and when and where necessity
required it, he hurled his Phalanx brigades against the enemy as readily as he did the white
troops. The conduct of the former was, nevertheless, watched eagerly by the correspondents
of the press who were with the army, and when they began to chronicle the achievements of the
Phalanx, the prejudice began to give way, and praises were substituted in the place of their
well-worn denunciations. A correspondent of the New York Herald thus wrote in May:

     "The conduct of the colored troops, by the way, in the
     actions of the last few days, is described as superb. An
     Ohio soldier said to me to-day, 'I never saw men fight with
     such desperate gallantry as those negroes did. They advanced
     as grim and stern as death, and when within reach of the
     enemy struck about them with a pitiless vigor, that was
     almost fearful.' Another soldier said to me, 'These negroes
     never shrink, nor hold back, no matter what the order.
     Through scorching heat and pelting storms, if the order
     comes, they march with prompt, ready feet.' Such praise is
     great praise, and it is deserved. The negroes here who have
     been slaves, are loyal, to a man, and on our occupation of
     Fredericksburg, pointed out the prominent secessionists, who
     were at once seized by our cavalry and put in safe quarters.
     In a talk with a group of faithful fellows, I discovered in
     them all a perfect understanding of the issues of the
     conflict, and a grand determination to prove themselves
     worthy of the place and privileges to which they are to be
     exalted."

The ice was thus broken, and then each war correspondent found it his duty to write in deservedly
glowing terms of the Phalanx.

The newspaper reports of the engagements stirred the blood of the Englishman, and he eschewed
his professed love for the freedom of mankind, and particularly that of the American negro.
The London Times, in the following article, lashed the North for arming the negroes to shoot
the confederates, forgetting, perhaps, that England employed negroes against the colonist in
1775, and at New Orleans, in 1814, had her black regiments to shoot down the fathers of the
men whom it now sought to uphold, in rebellion against the government of the United States:

     "THE NEGRO UNION SOLDIERS.

     "Six months have now passed from the time Mr. Lincoln issued
     his proclamation abolishing slavery in the States of the
     Southern Confederacy. To many it may seem that this measure
     has failed of the intended effect and this is doubtless in
     some respects the case. It was intended to frighten the
     Southern whites into submission, and it has only made them
     more fierce and resolute than ever. It was intended to raise
     a servile war, or produce such signs of it as should compel
     the Confederates to lay down their arms through fear for
     their wives and families; and it has only caused desertion
     from some of the border plantations and some disorders along
     the coast. But in other respects the consequences of this
     measure are becoming important enough. The negro race has
     been too much attached to the whites, or too ignorant or too
     sluggish to show any signs of revolt in places remote from
     the presence of the federal armies: but on some points where
     the federals have been able to maintain themselves in force
     in the midst of a large negro population, the process of
     enrolling and arming black regiments has been carried on in
     a manner which must give a new character to the war. It is
     in the State of Louisiana, and under the command of General
     Banks, that this use of negro soldiers has been most
     extensive. The great city of New Orleans having fallen into
     the possession of the federals more than a year ago, and the
     neighboring country being to a certain degree abandoned by
     the white population, a vast number of negroes have been
     thrown on the hands of the General in command to support
     and, if he can, make use of. The arming of these was begun
     by General Butler, and it has been continued by his
     successor. Though the number actually under arms is no doubt
     exaggerated by Northern writers, yet enough have been
     brought into service to produce a powerful effect on the
     imaginations of the combatants, and, as we can now clearly
     see, to add almost grievously to the fury of the struggle.

     "Of all wars, those between races which had been accustomed
     to stand to each other in the relation of master and slave
     have been so much the most horrible that by general consent
     the exciting of a servile insurrection has been considered
     as beyond the pale of legitimate warfare. This had been held
     even in the case of European serfdom, although there the
     rulers and the ruled are of the same blood, religion and
     language. But the conflict between the white men and the
     negro, and particularly the American white man and the
     American negro, is likely to be more ruthless than any which
     the ancient world, fruitful in such histories, or the modern
     records of Algeria can furnish. There was reason to hope
     that the deeds of 1857 in India would not be paralleled in
     our time or in any after age. The Asiatic savagery rose upon
     a dominant race scattered throughout the land, and wreaked
     its vengeance upon it by atrocities which it would be a
     relief to forget. But it has been reserved for the New
     World to present the spectacle of civil war, calling servile
     war to its aid, and of men of English race and language so
     envenomed against each other that one party places arms in
     the hands of the half savage negro, and the other acts as if
     resolved to give no quarter to the insurgent race or the
     white man who commands them or fights by their side. In the
     valley of the Mississippi, where these negro soldiers are in
     actual service, it seems likely that a story as revolting as
     that of St. Domingo is being prepared for the world. No one
     who reads the description of the fighting at Port Hudson,
     and the accounts given by the papers of scenes at other
     places, can help fearing that the worst part of this war has
     yet to come, and that a people who lately boasted that they
     took the lead in education and material civilization are now
     carrying on a contest without regard to any law of
     conventional warfare,--one side training negroes to fight
     against its own white flesh and blood, the other
     slaughtering them without mercy whenever they find them in
     the field.

     " * * * It is pitiable to find these unhappy Africans, whose
     clumsy frames are no match for the sinewy and agile white
     American, thus led on to be destroyed by a merciless enemy.
     Should the war proceed in this manner, it is possible that
     the massacre of Africans may not be confined to actual
     conflict in the field. Hitherto the whites have been
     sufficiently confident in the negroes to leave them
     unmolested, even when the enemy was near; but with two or
     three black regiments in each federal corps, and such events
     as the Port Hudson massacre occuring to infuriate the minds
     on either side, who can foresee what three months more of
     war may bring forth?

     "All that we can say with certainty is that the unhappy
     negro will be the chief sufferer in this unequal conflict.
     An even greater calamity, however, is the brutalization of
     two antagonistic peoples by the introduction into the war of
     these servile allies of the federals. Already there are
     military murders and executions on both sides. The horrors
     which Europe has foreseen for a year past are now upon us.
     Reprisal will provoke reprisal, until all men's natures are
     hardened, and the land flows with blood."

The article is truly instructive to the present generation; its malignity and misrepresentation
of the Administration's intentions in regard to the arming of negroes, serves to illustrate
the deep-seated animosity which then existed in England toward the union of the States. Nor
will the American negro ever forget England's advice to the confederates, whose massacre of
negro soldiers fighting for freedom she endorsed and applauded. The descendants of those black
soldiers, who were engaged in the prolonged struggle for freedom, can rejoice in the fact that
no single act of those patriots is in keeping with the Englishman's prediction; no taint of
brutality is even charged against them by those whom they took prisoners in battle. The confederates
themselves testify to the humane treatment they unexpectedly received at the hands of their
negro captors. Mr. Pollard, the historian, says:

     "No servile insurrections had taken place in the South."

But it is gratifying to know that all Englishmen did not agree with the writer of the Times.
A London letter in the New York Evening Post, said:

     "Mr. Spurgeon makes most effective and touching prayers,
     remembering, at least once on a Sunday, the United States.
     'Grant, O God,' he said recently, 'that the right may
     conquer, and that if the fearful canker of slavery must be
     cut out by the sword, it be wholly eradicated from the body
     politic of which it is the curse.' He is seldom, however, as
     pointed as this; and, like other clergymen of England, prays
     for the return of peace. Indeed, it must be acknowledged
     that if the English press and government have done what they
     could to continue this war, the dissenting clergy of England
     have nobly shown their good will and hearty sympathy with
     the Americans, and their sincere desire for the settlement
     of our difficulties. 'If praying would do you Americans any
     good,' said an irreverent acquaintance last Sunday, 'you
     will be gratified to learn that a force of a
     thousand-clergymen-power is constantly at work for you over
     here.'"

After the heroic and bloody effort at Cold Harbor to reach Richmond, or to cross the James
above the confederate capitol, and thus cut off the enemy's supplies,--after Grant had flanked,
until to flank again would be to leave Richmond in his rear,--when Lee had withdrawn to his
fortifications, refusing to accept Grant's challenge to come out and fight a decisive battle,--when
all hope of accomplishing either of these objects had vanished, Grant determined to return
to his original plan of attack from the coast, and turned his face toward the James river.
On the 12th of June the Army of the Potomac began to move, and by the 16th it was, with all
its trains across, and on the south side of the James.

Petersburg Grant regarded as the citadel of Richmond, and to capture it was the first thing
on his list to be accomplished. General Butler was made acquainted with this, and as soon as
General Smith, who, with a portion of Butler's forces had been temporarily dispatched to join
the army of the Potomac at Cold Harbor, returned to Bermuda Hundreds with his force, he was
ordered forward to capture the Cockade City. It was midnight on the 14th, when Smith's troops
arrived. Butler ordered him immediately forward against Petersburg, and he moved accordingly.
His force was in three divisions of Infantry, and one of Cavalry, under General Kautz, who
was to threaten the line of works on the Norfolk road. General Hinks, with his division of
the Phalanx, was to take position across the Jordon's Point road on the right of Kautz; Brooks'
division of white troops was to follow, Hinks coming in at the center of the line, while General
Martindale with the other division was to move along the Appomattox and strike the City Point
road. Smith's movement was directed against the northeast side of Petersburg, extending from
the City Point to the Norfolk railroad. About daylight on the 15th, as the columns advanced
on the City Point road at Bailey's farm, six miles from Petersburg, a confederate battery opened
fire. Kautz reconnoitered and found a line of rifle trench, extending along the front, on rapidly
rising ground, with a thicket covering. The work was held by a regiment of cavalry and a light
battery. At once there was use for the Phalanx; the works must be captured with the battery
before the troops could proceed. The cavalry was re-called, and Hinks began the formation of
an attacking party from his division. The confederates were in an open field, their battery
upon a knoll in the same field, commanding a sweeping position to its approaches. The advancing
troops must come out from the woods, rush up the slope and carry it at the point of the bayonet,
exposed to the tempest of musketry and cannister of the battery. Hinks formed his line for
the assault, and the word of command was given,--"forward." The line emerged from the woods,
the enemy opened with cannister upon the steadily advancing column, which, without stopping,
replied with a volley of Minie bullets.

     "The long, dusky line, arm to arm, knee to knee."

Then shells came crashing through the line, dealing death and shattering the ranks; but on
they went, with a wild cheer, running up the slope; again a storm of cannister met them; a
shower of musketry came down upon the advancing column, whose bristling bayonets were to make
the way clear for their white comrades awaiting on the roadside. A hundred black men went down
under the fire; the ranks were quickly closed however, and with another wild cheer the living
hundreds went over the works with the impetuosity of a cyclone; they seized the cannon and
turned them upon the fleeing foe, who, in consternation, stampeded toward Petersburg, to their
main line of intrenchments on the east. Thus the work of the 5th and 22nd Phalanx regiments
was completed and the road made clear for the 18th Corps.

Brooks now moved up simultaneously with Martindale, on the river road. By noon the whole corps
was in front of the enemy's main line of works, Martindale on the right, Brooks in the center,
the Phalanx and cavalry on the left, sweeping down to the Jerusalem Plank Road on the southeast.
Hinks, with the Phalanx, in order to gain the position assigned him, had necessarily to pass
over an open space exposed to a direct and cross-fire. Nevertheless, he prepared to occupy
his post, and forming a line of battle, he began the march. The division numbered about 3,000,
a portion of it being still at Wilson's Landing, Fort Powhatan, City Point and Bermuda Hundreds.
This was a march that veterans might falter in, without criticism or censure. The steady black
line advanced a few rods at a time, when coming within range of the confederate guns they were
obliged to lie down and wait for another opportunity. Now a lull,--they would rise, go forward,
and again lie down. Thus they continued their march, under a most galling, concentrated artillery
fire until they reached their position, from which they were to join in a general assault;
and here they lay, from one till five o'clock,--four long hours,--exposed to ceaseless shelling
by the enemy. Badeau says, in speaking of the Phalanx in this ordeal:

     "No worse strain on the nerves of troops is possible, for it
     is harder to remain quiet under cannon fire, even though
     comparatively harmless, than to advance against a storm of
     musketry."

General W. F. Smith, though brave, was too cautious and particular in detail, and he spent
those four hours in careful reconnoissance, while the troops lay exposed to the enemy's concentric
fire.

The main road leading east from Petersburg ascends a hill two or more miles out, upon the top
of which stood what was then known as Mr. Dunn's house. In front of it was a fort, and another
south, and a third north, with other works; heavy embankments and deep ravines and ditches,
trunks of hewn trees blackened by camp fires, formed an abatis on the even ground. Here the
sharpshooters and riflemen had a fair view of the entire field. The distance from these works
to the woods was about three hundred and sixty paces, in the edge of which lay the black Phalanx
division, ready, like so many tigers, waiting for the command, "forward." The forts near Dunn's
house had direct front fire, and those on the north an enfilading fire on the line of advance.
Smith got his troops in line for battle by one o'clock, but there they lay. Hinks impatiently
awaited orders; oh! what a suspense--each hour seemed a day,--what endurance--what valor. Shells
from the batteries ploughed into the earth where they stood, and began making trouble for the
troops. Hinks gave the order, "lie down;" they obeyed, and were somewhat sheltered. Five o'clock--yet
no orders. At length the command was given, "forward." The skirmishers started at quick time;
the enemy opened upon them vigorously from their batteries and breastworks, upon which they
rested their muskets, in order to fire with accuracy. A torrent of bullets was poured upon
the advancing line, and the men fell fast as autumn leaves in a gale of wind. Then the whole
line advanced, the Phalanx going at double-quick; their well aligned ranks, with bayonets glittering
obliquely in the receding sunlight, presented a spectacle both magnificent and grand.

Duncan rushed his skirmishers and reached the ditches in front of the breastworks, which, without
waiting for the main body, they entered and clambered up the steep embankments. A sheet of
flame from above was rained down, causing many a brave man to stagger and fall back into the
ditch, never to rise again. The troops following, inspired by the daring of the skirmishers,
pressed forward on the run up to the forts, swept round the curtains, scaled the breastworks
and dashed with patriotic rage at the confederate gunners, who deserted their pieces and ran
for their lives. Brooks and Martindale advanced simultaneously upon the works at Osborn's house
and up the railroad, sweeping everything before them. The Phalanx seized upon the guns and
turned them instantly upon the fleeing foe, and then with spades and shovels reversed the fortifications
and prepared to hold them. Fifteen pieces of artillery and three hundred confederates were
captured. "The Phalanx," says the official report, took two-thirds of the prisoners and nine
pieces of artillery. General Smith, finding that General Birney, with the 2nd Corps, had not
arrived, instead of marching the troops into Petersburg, waited for re-inforcements unnecessarily,
and thereby lost his chance of taking the city, which was soon garrisoned with troops enough
to defy the whole army. Thus Grant was necessitated afterward to lay siege to the place.

The confederates never forgot nor forgave this daring of the "niggers," who drove them, at
the point of the bayonet, out of their breastworks, killing and capturing their comrades and
their guns. They were chided by their brother confederates for allowing negroes to take their
works from them. The maidens of the Cockade City were told that they could not trust themselves
to men who surrendered their guns to "niggers." The soldiers of the Phalanx were delirious
with joy. They had caught "ole massa," and he was theirs. General Hinks had their confidence,
and they were ready to follow wherever he led.

The chaplin of the 9th Corps, in his history, says:

     "In this movement a division of colored troops, under
     Brigadier-General Hinks, seems to have won the brightest
     laurels. They first attacked and carried the enemy's outpost
     at Bailey's farm, capturing one piece of artillery in the
     most gallant manner. On their arrival before Petersburg,
     they lay in front of the works for nearly five hours,
     waiting for the word of command. They then, in company with
     the white troops, and showing equal bravery, rushed and
     carried the enemy's line of works, with what glorious
     success has already been related."

This, indeed, was a victory, yet shorn of its full fruits; but that Petersburg was not captured
was no fault of the Phalanx. They had carried and occupied the most formidable obstacles.

Badeau, in chronicling these achievements, says:

     "General Smith assaulted the works on the City Point and
     Prince George Court House roads. The rebels resisted with a
     sharp infantry fire, but the center and left dashed into the
     works, consisting of five redan's on the crest of a deep and
     difficult ravine. Kiddoo's (22d) black regiment was one of
     the first to gain the hill. In support of this movement, the
     second line was swung around and moved against the front of
     the remaining works. The rebels, assaulted thus in front and
     flank, gave way, four of the guns already captured were
     turned upon them by the negro conquerors, enfilading the
     line, and before dark, Smith was in possession of the whole
     of the outer works, two and a half miles long, with fifteen
     pieces of artillery and three hundred prisoners. Petersburg
     was at his mercy."

This failure made a siege necessary, and General Grant began by regular approaches to invest
the place, after making the three desperate assaults on the 16th, 17th and 18th. It had been
indeed a bloody June; the soil of the Old Dominion, which for two centuries the negro had tilled
and made to yield the choicest products, under a system of cruel and inhuman bondage he now
reddened with his blood in defense of his liberty, proving by his patriotism, not only his
love of liberty, but his courage and capacity to defend it. The negro troops had marched and
fought with the white regiments with equal intrepidity and courage; they were no longer despised
by their comrades; they now had recognition as soldiers, and went into the trenches before
Petersburg as a part of as grand an army as ever laid siege to a stronghold or stormed a fortification.

On the 18th of June, General Ferrero reported to General Meade, with his division of the Phalanx,
(4th Division, 9th Corps), and was immediately ordered to join its own proper corps,--from
which it had been separated since the 6th of May,--at the crossing of the Rapidan. It had served
under Sedgwick and Sheridan until the 17th, when it came under the direct command of General
Grant, and thus remained until the 25th of May, when General Burnside, waiving rank to Meade,
the 9th Corps was incorporated into the Army of the Potomac. During its absence the division
sustained the reputable renown of its corps, not only in protecting the trains, but in fighting
the enemy, and capturing prisoners. Before rejoining the corps, the division was strengthened
by three regiments of cavalry,--the 5th New York, 3rd New Jersey and 2nd Ohio. From the 9th
of May till the 17th, the division occupied the plank road, looking to the old Wilderness tavern,
covering the extreme right of the army, extending from Todd's to Banks' Ford. On the 17th,
the division moved to Salem Church, near the main road to Fredericksburg, where, as we have
seen, it defended the rear line against the attack made by the confederates, under General Ewell.

The historian of the corps says:

     "The division on the 21st of May was covering
     Fredericksburg, and the roads leading hence to Bowling
     Green. On the 22nd it marched toward Bowling Green, and on
     the 23rd it moved to Milford Station. From that date to the
     27th it protected the trains of the army in the rear of the
     positions on the North Anna. On the 27th, the division moved
     to Newtown; on the 28th, to Dunkirk, crossing the Maltapony;
     on the 29th, to the Pamunkey, near Hanovertown. On the 1st
     of June the troops crossed the Pamunkey, and from the 2nd to
     the 6th, covered the right of the army; from the 6th to the
     12th they covered the approaches from New Castle Ferry,
     Hanovertown, Hawe's shop, and Bethusda Church. From the 12th
     to the 18th they moved by easy stages, by way of Tunstall's
     New Kent Court House, Cole's Ferry, and the pontoon bridge
     across the James, to the line of the army near Petersburg.
     The dismounted cavalry were left to guard the trains, and
     the 4th Division prepared to participate in the more active
     work of soldiers. Through the remainder of the month of
     June, and the most of July, the troops were occupied in the
     second line of trenches, and in active movements towards the
     left, under Generals Hancock and Warren. While they were
     engaged in the trenches they were also drilled in the
     movements necessary for an attack and occupation of the
     enemy's works. A strong feeling of pride and esprit de
     corps sprung up within the hearts of the blacks, and they
     began to think that they too might soon have the opportunity
     of some glory for their race and country."

How natural was this feeling. As we have seen, their life for more than a month had been one
of marching and counter-marching, though hazardous and patriotic. When on the 18th, they entered
upon the more active duty of soldiers, they found the 3rd Division of the 18th Corps, composed
of the Phalanx of the Army of the James, covered with glory, and the welkin ringing with praises
of their recent achievements. The men of the 4th Division chafed with eager ambition to rival
their brothers of the 18th Corps, in driving the enemy from the Cockade City. General Burnside
was equally as anxious to give his black boys a chance to try the steel of the chivalry in
deadly conflict, and this gave them consolation, with the assurance that their day would ere
long dawn, so they toiled and drilled carefully for their prospective glory.

But the situation of the Phalanx before Petersburg was far from being enviable. Smarting under
the thrashing they had received from Hinks' division, the confederates were ever ready now
to slaughter the "niggers" when advantage offered them the opportunity. A steady, incessant
fire was kept up against the positions the Phalanx occupied, and their movements were watched
with great vigilance. Although they did not raise the black flag, yet manifestly no quarter
to negro troops, or to white troops that fought with them, was the confederates' determination.

     "Judging from their actions, the presence of the negro
     soldiers, both in the Eighteenth and Ninth Corps," says
     Woodbury, "seemed to have the effect of rendering the enemy
     more spiteful than ever before the Fourth Division came. The
     closeness of the lines on the front of the corps rendered
     constant watchfulness imperative, and no day passed without
     some skirmishing between the opposing pickets. When the
     colored soldiers appeared, this practice seemed to increase,
     while in front of the Fifth Corps, upon the left of our
     line, there was little or no picket firing, and the outposts
     of both armies were even disposed to be friendly. On the
     front of the Ninth, the firing was incessant, and in many
     cases fatal."

     "General Potter, in his report, mentions that, when his
     division occupied the front, his loss averaged some fourteen
     or fifteen officers killed and wounded per diem. The
     sharpshooters on either side were vigilant, and an exposure
     of any part of the person was the signal for the exchange of
     shots. The men, worn by hard marching, hard fighting and
     hard digging, took every precaution to shield themselves,
     and sought cover at every opportunity. They made fire proofs
     of logs and earth, and with tortuous covered ways and
     traverse, endeavoring to secure themselves from the enemy's
     fire. The artillery and mortars on both sides were kept
     almost constantly at work. These were all precursors of the
     coming, sanguinary struggle for the possession of Cemetery
     Hill. Immediately in front of the salient occupied by the
     Ninth Corps, the rebels had constructed a very strong
     redoubt, a short distance below Cemetery Hill. In the rear
     of the redoubt ran a ridge nearly at right angles with the
     rebels' lines, to the hill. It appeared that if this redoubt
     was captured, the enemy's line would be seriously
     threatened, if not entirely broken up. A feasible plan for
     the destruction of the redoubt, was seriously discussed
     among the soldiers of the corps; finally Colonel Pleasants,
     of the 48th Pennsylvania Regiment, devised a plan to run a
     mine under the intervening space between the line of the
     corps and the redoubt, with the design of exploding it,
     directly under the redoubt. To this plan General Burnside
     lent his aid, and preparations were made for an assault upon
     Cemetery Hill, at the time of its explosion. The work of
     digging and preparing the mine was prosecuted under the most
     disadvantageous circumstances. General Meade reluctantly
     gave official sanction, and the work of excavation proceeded
     with, despite the fact that General Burnside's requisitions
     for supplies were not responded to. Nevertheless, in less
     than a month the mine was ready, and after considerable
     discussion, and not without some bickering, the plan of
     attack was arranged, which, in brief, was to form two
     columns, and to charge with them through the breach caused
     by the explosion of the mine. Then to sweep along the
     enemy's line, right and left, clearing away the artillery
     and infantry, by attacking in the flank and rear. Other
     columns were to make for the crest, the whole to co-operate.
     General Ferrero, in command of the Phalanx division was
     informed, that in accordance with the plan of attack, he was
     to lead in the assault, when the attack was made, after the
     mine had been fired. He was ordered to drill his troops
     accordingly. After a careful examination of the ground,
     Ferrero decided upon his methods of advance,--not to go
     directly in the crater formed by the explosion, but rather
     upon one side of it, and then to take the enemy in flank and
     reverse. When he informed his officers and men that they
     would be called upon to lead in the assault, they received
     the information with delight. His men, desirous of emulating
     their comrades of the Third Division of the Eighteenth
     Corps, felt that their cherished hope,--the opportunity for
     which they had prayed,--was near at hand; the hour in which
     they would show themselves worthy of the honor of being
     associated with the Army of the Potomac. They rejoiced at
     the prospect of wiping off whatever reproach an ill-judged
     prejudice might have cast upon them, by proving themselves
     brave, thereby demanding the respect which brave men
     deserve. For three weeks they drilled with alacrity in the
     various movements; charging upon earthworks, wheeling by the
     right and left, deployment, and other details of the
     expected operations. General Burnside had early expressed
     his confidence in the soldierly capabilities of the men of
     the Phalanx, and now wished to give them an opportunity to
     justify his good opinion."

His white troops, moreover, had been greatly exposed throughout the whole campaign, had suffered
severely, and had been so much under the fire of the sharpshooters that it had become a second
nature with them to dodge bullets. The negro troops had not been so much exposed, and had already
shown their steadiness under fire in one or two pretty severe skirmishes in which they had
previously been engaged. The white officers and men of the corps were elated with the selection
made by General Burnside, and they, too, manifested an uncommon interest in their dark-hued
comrades. The demeanor of the former toward the latter was very different from that of the
other corps, of which that particular army was composed. The 9th Corps had seen more service
than any other corps in the Army of the Potomac. Its operations in six States had given to
the men an experience calculated to destroy, very greatly, their race prejudice; besides a
very large portion of the regiments in the corps came from the New England States, especially
Massachusetts, Vermont and Rhode Island, where race prejudice was not so strong; consequently
the treatment of the men in the 4th Division was tempered by humanity, and pregnant with a
fraternal feeling of comradeship. And then there was a corps pride very naturally existing
among the white troops, which prompted a desire for the achievement of some great and brilliant
feat by their black comrades. This feeling was expressed in more than one way by the entire
corps, and greatly enhanced the ambition of the Phalanx to rout the enemy and drive him out
of his fortifications before Petersburg, if not to capture the city.

These high hopes were soon dissipated, however. General Meade had an interview with General
Burnside on the 28th; the subject was fully discussed as to the plan of the assault, as proposed
by General Burnside, and made known to Meade by Burnside, in writing, on the 26th. It was at
this meeting that General Meade made his objections to the Phalanx leading the assault. General
Burnside argued with all the reason he could command, in favor of his plans, and especially
for the Phalanx, going over the grounds already cited; why his white troops were unfit and
disqualified for performing the task of leading the assault, but in vain. Meade was firm in
his purpose, and, true to his training, he had no use for the negro but as a servant; he never
had trusted him as a soldier. The plan, with General Meade's objection was referred to General
Grant for settlement. Grant, doubting the propriety of agreeing with a subordinate, as against
the commander of the army, dismissed the dispute by agreeing with Meade; therefore the Phalanx
was ruled out of the lead and placed in the supporting column. It was not till the night of
the 29th, a few hours before the assault was made, that the change was made known to General
Ferrero and his men, who were greatly chagrined and filled with disappointment.

General Ledlie's division of white troops was to lead the assault, after the explosion of the
mine on the morning of the 30th. It was on the night of the 29th, when General Burnside issued
his battle order, in accordance with General Meade's plan and instructions, and at the appointed
hour all the troops were in readiness for the conflict. The mine, with its several tons of
powder, was ready at a quarter past three o'clock on the eventful morning of the 30th of July.
The fuses were fired, and "all eyes were turned to the confederate fort opposite," which was
discernible but three hundred feet distant. The garrison was sleeping in fancied security;
the sentinels slowly paced their rounds, without a suspicion of the crust which lay between
them and the awful chasm below. Our own troops, lying upon their arms in unbroken silence,
or with an occasional murmur, stilled at once by the whispered word of command, looked for
the eventful moment of attack to arrive. A quarter of an hour passed,--a half hour, yet there
was no report. Four o'clock, and the sky began to brighten in the east; the confederate garrison
was bestirring itself. The enemy's lines once more assumed the appearance of life; the sharpshooters,
prepared for their victims, began to pick off those of our men, who came within range of their
deadly aim. Another day of siege was drawing on, and still there was no explosion. What could
it mean? The fuses had failed;--the dampness having penetrated to the place where the parts
had been spliced together, prevented the powder from burning. Two men (Lieut. Jacob Douty and
Sergeant--afterwards Lieutenant--Henry Rees,) of the 48th Pennsylvania volunteered to go and
ascertain where the trouble was. At quarter past four o'clock they bravely entered the mine,
re-arranged the fuses and relighted them. In the meantime, General Meade had arrived at the
permanent headquarters of the 9th Corps. Not being able to see anything that was going forward,
and not hearing any report, he became somewhat impatient. At fifteen minutes past four o'clock
he telegraphed to General Burnside to know what was the cause of the delay. Gen. Burnside was
too busy in remedying the failure already incurred to reply immediately, and expected, indeed,
that before a dispatch could be sent that the explosion would take place. General Meade ill-naturedly
telegraphed the operator to know where General Burnside was. At half-past four, the commanding
general became still more impatient, and was on the point of ordering an immediate assault
upon the enemy's works, without reference to the mine. Five minutes later he did order an assault.
General Grant was there when, at sixteen minutes before five o'clock, the mine exploded. Then
ensued a scene which beggars description.

General Badeau, in describing the spectacle, says:

     "The mine exploded with a shock like that of an earthquake,
     tearing up the rebels' work above them, and vomiting men,
     guns and caissons two hundred feet into the air. The
     tremendous mass appeared for a moment to hang suspended in
     the heavens like a huge, inverted cone, the exploding powder
     still flashing out here and there, while limbs and bodies of
     mutilated men, and fragments of cannon and wood-work could
     be seen, then all fell heavily to the ground again, with a
     second report like thunder. When the smoke and dust had
     cleared away, only an enormous crater, thirty feet deep,
     sixty wide, and a hundred and fifty long stretched out in
     front of the Ninth Corps, where the rebel fort had been."

The explosion was the signal for the federal batteries to open fire, and immediately one hundred
and ten guns and fifty mortars opened along the Union front, lending to the sublime horror
of the upheaved and quaking earth, the terror of destruction.

A confederate soldier thus describes the explosion, in the Philadelphia Times, January, 1883:

     "About fifteen feet of dirt intervened between the sleeping
     soldiers and all this powder. In a moment the superincumbent
     earth, for a space forty by eighty feet, was hurled upward,
     carrying with it the artillery-men, with their four guns,
     and three companies of soldiers. As the huge mass fell
     backwards it buried the startled men under immense
     clods--tons of dirt. Some of the artillery was thrown forty
     yards towards the enemy's line. The clay subsoil was broken
     and piled in large pieces, often several yards in diameter,
     which afterwards protected scores of Federals when
     surrounded in the crater. The early hour, the unexpected
     explosion, the concentrated fire of the enemy's batteries,
     startled and wrought confusion among brave men accustomed to
     battle."

Says a Union account:

     "Now was the time for action, forward went General Ledlie's
     column, with Colonel Marshall's brigade in advance. The
     parapets were surmounted, the abatis was quickly removed,
     and the division prepared to pass over the intervening
     ground, and charge through the still smoking ruins to gain
     the crest beyond. But here the leading brigade made a
     temporary halt; it was said at the time our men suspected a
     counter mine, and were themselves shocked by the terrible
     scene they had witnessed. It was, however, but momentary; in
     less than a quarter of an hour, the entire division was out
     of its entrenchments, and was advancing gallantly towards
     the enemy's line. The ground was somewhat difficult to cross
     over, but the troops pushed steadily on with soldiery
     bearing, overcoming all the obstacles before them. They
     reached the edge of the crater, passed down into the chasm
     and attempted to make their way through the yielding sand,
     the broken clay, and the masses of rubbish that were
     everywhere about. Many of the enemy's men were lying among
     the ruins, half buried, and vainly trying to free
     themselves. They called for mercy and for help. The soldiers
     stopped to take prisoners, to dig out guns and other
     material. Their division commander was not with them, there
     was no responsible head, the ranks were broken, the
     regimental organizations could not be preserved, and the
     troops were becoming confused. The enemy was recovering from
     his surprise, our artillery began to receive a spirited
     response, the enemy's men went back to their guns; they
     gathered on the crest and soon brought to bear upon our
     troops a fire in front from the Cemetery Hill, and an
     enfilading and cross-fire from their guns in battery. Our
     own guns could not altogether silence or overcome this fire
     in flank, our men in the crater were checked, felt the
     enemy's fire, sought cover, began to entrench. The day was
     lost, still heroic men continued to push forward for the
     crest, but in passing through the crater few got beyond it.
     Regiment after regiment, brigade followed brigade, until the
     three white divisions filled the opening and choked the
     passage to all. What was a few moments ago organization and
     order, was now a disordered mass of armed men. At six
     o'clock, General Meade ordered General Burnside to push 'his
     men forward, at all hazards, white and black.' His white
     troops were all in the crater, and could not get out. As
     instructed, he ordered General Ferrero to rush in the
     Phalanx; Colonel Loving was near when the order came to
     Ferrero; as the senior staff officer present, seeing the
     impossibility of the troops to get through the crater, at
     that time countermanded the order, and reported in person to
     General Burnside, but he had no discretion to exercise, his
     duty was simply to repeat Meade's order. The order must be
     obeyed; it was repeated; away went the Phalanx division,
     loudly cheering, but to what purpose did they advance? The
     historian of that valiant corps, presumably more reliable
     than any other writer, says:

     "'The colored troops charged forward, cheering with
     enthusiasm and gallantry. Colonel J. K. Sigfried, commanding
     the first brigade, led the attacking column. The command
     moved out in rear of Colonel Humphrey's brigade of the Third
     Division. Colonel Sigfried, passing Colonel Humphrey by the
     flank, crossed the field immediately in front, went down the
     crater, and attempted to go through. The passage was
     exceedingly difficult, but after great exertions the brigade
     made its way through the crowded masses in a somewhat broken
     and disorganized condition, and advanced towards the crest.
     The 43rd U. S. Colored troops moved over the lip of the
     crater toward the right, made an attack upon the enemy's
     line of intrenchments, and won the chief success of the day,
     capturing a number of prisoners and rebel colors, and
     re-capturing a stand of national colors. The other
     regiments of the brigade were unable to get up, on account
     of white troops in advance of them crowding the line. The
     second brigade, under command of Colonel H. G. Thomas,
     followed the first with equal enthusiasm. The men rushed
     forward, descended into the crater, and attempted to pass
     through. Colonel Thomas' intention was to go to the right
     and attack the enemy's rifle-pits. He partially succeeded in
     doing so, but his brigade was much broken up when it came
     under the enemy's fire. The gallant brigade commander
     endeavored, in person, to rally his command, and at last
     formed a storming column, of portions of the 29th, 28th,
     23rd, and 19th Regiments of the Phalanx division.'

     "'These troops' made a spirited attack, but lost heavily in
     officers and became somewhat disheartened.
     Lieutenant-Colonel Bross, of the 29th, with the colors in
     his hands, led the charge; was the first man to leap upon
     the enemy's works, and was instantly killed. Lieutenant
     Pennell seized the colors, but was shot down, riddled
     through and through. Major Theodore H. Rockwood, of the
     19th, sprang upon the parapet, and fell while cheering on
     his regiment to the attack. The conduct of these officers
     and their associates was indeed magnificent. No troops were
     ever better lead to an assault; had they been allowed the
     advance at the outset, before the enemy had recovered from
     his first surprise, their charge would have been successful.
     But it was made too late. The fire to which they were
     exposed was very hot and destructive; it came from front and
     flank, it poured into the faces of the men. It enfiladed
     their lines. The enemy's rage against the colored troops had
     its bloody opportunity."

And they made use of it.

Captain W. L. Fagan, of the 8th Alabama Regiment, thus gives an account of the fight, from
the confederate side:

     "The crater combat, unlike other battles in Virginia, was a
     series of deeds of daring, of bloody hand-to-hand fighting,
     where the survivor could count with a certainty the men he
     had slain. A few days ago a soldier said to me: 'I killed
     two at the crater; they were not three feet from me when
     they fell. I had followed the fortunes of the Confederacy
     from Williamsburg to Appomattox Court House, and had, to the
     morning of July 30, only seen two bayonet wounds;--one
     received at Frazier's Farm, the other at Turkey Ridge, June
     3, 1864.' Men stood face to face at the crater. Often a
     bayonet thrust was given before the Minie ball went crashing
     through the body. Every man took care of himself, intent on
     selling his life as dearly as possible. The negroes did not
     all stampede. They mingled with the white troops. The troops
     of Mahone, Wilcox and Wright were greeted with defiant
     yells, while their ranks were mowed down by withering fires.
     Many officers commanding negro troops held their commissions
     for bravery. Encouraged, threatened, emulating the white
     troops, the black men fought with desperation. Some
     Confederate soldiers recognized their slaves at the crater.
     Captain J----, of the Forty-first Virginia, gave the
     military salute to 'Ben' and 'Bob,' whom he had left hoeing
     corn down in Dinwiddie. If White's Division had occupied
     Reservoir Hill, Richmond would have been evacuated."

But let the writer of the following tell what the brave black men met after having advanced
beyond the crater, where they grappled with the sullen foe filled with the recollection of
the capture, in June, of their works, guns and comrades by the "niggers" of the 18th Corps.
It was not lex talionis that they observed, but a repetition of the Fort Pillow Massacre. Under
the head of "The Confederate Charge," the particulars are given:

     "The Federals now held the crater and the inner line.
     Generals Lee and Mahone arrived on the field about 7:30 A.
     M. A ravine, which deepened on our right, ran parallel with
     this inner line and was used by Mahone in which to form his
     brigade when preparing to attack. At 8 A. M. Mahone's
     Brigade, commanded by Colonel D. A. Weisiger, brought from
     the right of Hoke's Division, was formed in this ravine and
     advanced to the assault. The Federals, concentrating a
     terrific fire of musketry and artillery, ploughed out great
     gaps in these fearless Virginians. Nothing daunted, they
     pressed forward and recaptured the inner line. The loss of
     this brigade was heavy, both in men and officers, more than
     two hundred Virginians falling between the ravine and the
     captured works. The Federal troops, white and colored,
     fought with a desperation never witnessed on former
     battle-fields. The negroes, it is said, cried 'No quarter.'
     Mahone and Wright's Brigades took only twenty-nine of them
     prisoners. The Federals still held the crater and part of
     the line. Another charge was necessary and Wright's Georgia
     Brigade was ordered up from Anderson's Division. Wright's
     Brigade, forming in the ravine, moved forward to drive the
     Federals from the line they still held. The enemy, expecting
     their attack, poured a volley into the Georgians that
     decimated their ranks, killing and wounding nearly every
     field officer in the brigade. The men rushing forward,
     breasting a storm of lead and iron, failed to oblique far
     enough to the right to recapture the whole line, but gained
     the line occupied by and contiguous to the line already
     captured by Weisiger, commanding Mahone's Brigade. Mahone's
     Brigade and Wright's Brigade had captured forty-two
     officers, three hundred and ninety men and twenty-nine
     negroes.

     "It was now about 10 A. M. General Grant made no effort to
     reinforce his line or to dislodge Wright and Mahone from the
     positions they held. A courier dashed up to General J. C. C.
     Sanders, commanding Wilcox's Brigade, informing him that his
     brigade was wanted. The men were expecting this courier, as
     they were next in line, and they distinctly heard the shouts
     of Mahone's and Wright's men, followed by the heavy
     artillery firing, while the word had passed down the line
     that the salient had not been recaptured. General Sanders
     moved his brigade, consisting of the Eighth, Ninth, Tenth,
     Eleventh and Fourteenth Alabama Regiments, to the left and
     occupied the ravine. There was no shade or water in this
     ravine, while the men were exposed nearly four hours to a
     scorching sun. The heat was almost beyond human endurance.
     Strong men fainted and were carried to the rear. The waves
     of hot air at times were almost suffocating. For the first
     and only time the men were told what was expected of them.
     General Saunders explained the situation to the officers of
     the regiments. Each captain spoke to his men, urging them to
     retake the salient, or Petersburg and Richmond must be
     evacuated. The men were ordered to fix their bayonets
     securely, to trail arms--not to fire, not to yell, but to
     move quietly up the side of the ravine, and then, every man
     run for his life to the breastworks. They were told that
     Generals Lee, Beauregard, Hill, Mahone, Hoke and every
     general officer of the army would watch them as they moved
     forward.

     "At 1:30 P. M. the firing had almost ceased and the
     Federals, overcome with heat, did not expect an attack.
     Saunders formed his brigade and moved quietly up the side of
     the ravine. Hardly a word was spoken, for the Alabamians
     expected to die or retake that salient. The eye of General
     Lee was fixed on them. When they caught sight of the works
     their old feelings came back to them and yell they must.
     With the fury of a whirlwind they rushed upon the line they
     had been ordered to take. The movement was so unexpected and
     so quickly executed that only one shell was thrown into the
     brigade. The works gained, they found the enemy on the other
     side. It was stated that Lee, speaking to Beauregard, said:
     'Splendid!' Beauregard spoke with enthusiasm of the
     brilliant charge.

     "In an instant the Federal army was aroused, and batteries
     opened along the whole line, while the infantry fire was a
     continuous roar. Only a breastwork divided Wilcox's Brigade
     from the Federals. A moment was required for Saunders to
     reform, and his brigade mounted the inner line and forced
     the enemy backwards to the outer line and the crater. The
     crater was full of white and negro soldiers. The
     Confederates, surrounding it on every side, poured volley
     after volley into this heaped-up mass of terrified negroes
     and their brave officers. The negroes ran in every direction
     and were shot down without a thought. Bayonets, swords and
     the butts of muskets were used. The deafening roar of
     artillery and musketry, the yells and imprecations of the
     combatants, drowned the commands of officers. A negro in the
     crater attempted to raise a white flag, and it was instantly
     pulled down by a Federal officer. The Federal colors were
     planted on a huge lump of dirt, and waved until Sergeant
     Wallace, of the Eleventh Alabama, followed by others, seized
     them and tore them from the staff. Instantly a white flag
     was raised, and the living, who were not many, surrendered.
     The crater was won."

With the exception of General Burnside, no commander of the Army of the Potomac was in favor
of the Phalanx participating in a battle. What, then, had the Phalanx to expect of those to
whom they had borne the relation of slave? The confederates had a right to expect hard fighting
when they met the Phalanx, and the Phalanx knew they had to fight hard when they met the confederates.
It was the previous associations and habits of the negro that kept him from retaliating for
the several massacres that had been perpetrated upon his brother-soldiers. It was not for a
want of courage to do it: it was only necessary for those who commanded them to have ordered
it, and they would never have taken a confederate prisoner.

Many of those who commanded them needed but public opinion to sustain them, to give such an
order as would have made every battle between the Phalanx and the confederates bloody and inhuman.
It was but the enlightened sentiment of the North, the religious teaching of the brotherhood
of man, the high character and moral training of the statesmen on the side of the Union, that
restrained the Phalanx from retaliation, else they possessed none of the characteristics of
a courageous, sensitive and high tempered people. The negro is not naturally docile; his surroundings,
rather than his nature, have given him the trait; it is not naturally his, but something which
his trainers have given him; and it is not a difficult task to untrain him and advance him
beyond his apparent unconsciousness of self-duty and self-preservation. Let him feel that he
is to be supported in any transaction uncommon to him, and he can act as aggressively as any
race of men who are naturally quicker in temperament. It is this characteristic that made the
negro what General Grant said he was: in discipline a better soldier than the white man. It
was said that he would not fight: there is no man in the South who met him on the battle-field
that will say so now.

These are a few of the thoughts that came to me as I listened for an hour, one evening in June,
1883, to the confederate Gen. Mahone, whose acquaintance the writer enjoys, reciting the story
of the fight at the crater, where the negro met the confederate, and in a hand-to-hand struggle
one showed as much brute courage as the other. It would not be doing the negro justice to accord
him less, and yet that courage never led him to acts of inhumanity. It is preferable that the
confederates themselves should tell the stories of their butcheries than for me to attempt
them. Not the stories told at the time, but fifteen years afterward, when men could reflect
and write more correctly. There is one, an orator, who has described the fight, whose reference
to the crater so gladdened the hearts of his audience that they reproduced the "yell," and
yelled themselves hoarse. No battle fought during the war, not even that of Bull Run, elicited
so much comment and glorification among the confederates as that of the crater. It was the
bloodiest fight on the soil of the Old Dominion, and has been the subject of praise by poets
and orators upon the confederate side. Capt. J. B. Hope eulogized "Mahone's brigade" in true
Southern verse. Capt. McCabe, on the 1st of November, 1876, in his oration before the "Association
of the Army of Northern Virginia," in narrating the recapture of the works, said:

     "It was now 8 o'clock in the morning. The rest of Potter's
     (Federal) division moved out slowly, when Ferrero's negro
     division, the men, beyond question, inflamed with drink,
     (there are many officers and men, myself among the number,
     who will testify to this), burst from the advanced lines,
     cheering vehemently, passed at a double quick over a crest
     under a heavy fire, and rushed with scarcely a check over
     the heads of the white troops in the crater, spread to their
     right, and captured more than two hundred prisoners and one
     stand of colors. At the same time Turner, of the Tenth
     corps, pushed forward a brigade over the Ninth Corps'
     parapet, seized the Confederate line still further to the
     north, and quickly dispersed the remaining brigades of his
     division to confirm his successes."

The truth is over-reached in the statement of this orator if he intended to convey the idea
that the men of the Phalanx division were drunk from strong drink; but it may be looked upon
as an excuse offered for the treatment the courageous negro soldiers received at the hands
of their captors, who, worse than enraged by strong drink, gave the battle-cry on their way
to the front, "No quarter to niggers!" This has been admitted by those in a position, at the
time, to know what went on. In his "Recollections of the Recapture of the Lines," Colonel Stewart
of the 61st Virginia Regiment, says:

     "When nearly opposite the portions of our works held by the
     Federal troops, we met several soldiers who were in the
     works at the time of the explosion. Our men began ridiculing
     them for going to the rear, when one of them remarked, 'Ah,
     boys, you have got hot work ahead,--they are negroes, and
     show no quarter.' This was the first intimation we had that
     we were to fight negro troops, and it seemed to infuse the
     little band with impetuous daring, as they pressed toward
     the fray. I never felt more like fighting in my life. Our
     comrades had been slaughtered in a most inhuman and brutal
     manner, and slaves were trampling over their mangled and
     bleeding corpses. Revenge must have fired every heart, and
     strung every arm with nerves of steel, for the herculean
     task of blood."

On the Monday morning after the assault of Saturday, the Richmond Enquirer said:

     "Grant's war cry of 'no quarter' shouted by his negro
     soldiers, was returned with interest, we regret to hear, not
     so heavily as ought to have been, since some negroes were
     captured instead of being shot. Let every salient we are
     called upon to defend, be a Fort Pillow, and butcher every
     negro that Grant hurls against our brave troops, and permit
     them not to soil their hands, with the capture of one
     negro."

There is no truth in the statement. No such cry was ever made by negro soldiers; and when it
is remembered that the confederate congress, in four short months after this declaration, began
arming slaves for the defense of Richmond, it is readily seen how deep and with what sincerity
such declarations were made. The Southern historian Pollard thus describes the situation after
the assault and the ground had again come into the possession of the confederates:

     "The ground all around was dotted with the fallen, while the
     sides and bottom of the crater were literally lined with
     dead, the bodies lying in every conceivable position. Some
     had evidently been killed with the butts of muskets, as
     their crushed skulls and badly smashed faces too plainly
     indicated.' Within this crater--this hole of forty by eighty
     feet--were lying one hundred and thirty-six dead soldiers,
     besides the wounded. The soil was literally saturated with
     blood. General Bartlett was here, with his steel leg broken.
     He did not look as though he had been at a 'diamond
     wedding,' but was present at a 'dance of death.' A covered
     way for artillery was so full of dead that details were made
     to throw them out, that artillery might be brought in. The
     dead bodies formed a heap on each side. The Alabamians
     captured thirty-four officers, five hundred and thirty-six
     white and one hundred and thirty-nine colored soldiers. The
     three brigades had seventeen stands of colors, held by
     seventeen as brave, sweaty, dirty, powder-stained fellows as
     ever wore the gray, who knew that, when presenting their
     colors to division headquarters, to each a furlough of
     thirty days would be granted.

     "The crater was filled with wounded, to whom our men gave
     water. Adjutant Morgan Cleveland, of the 8th Alabama
     Regiment, assisted a federal captain who was mortally
     wounded and suffering intensely. Near him lay a burly,
     wounded negro. The officer said he would die. The negro,
     raising himself on his elbow, cried out: 'Thank God. You
     killed my brother when we charged, because he was afraid and
     ran. Now the rebels have killed you.' Death soon ended the
     suffering of one and the hatred of the other. A darkness
     came down on the battle-field and the victors began to
     repair the salient. The crater was cleared of the dead and
     wounded. Men were found buried ten feet under the dirt.
     Twenty-two of the artillery company were missing. Four
     hundred and ninety-eight dead and wounded confederates were
     buried or sent to the hospitals. Between the lines lay
     hundreds of wounded federals, who vainly called for water.
     These men had been without water since early morning. Some
     calling louder than others, their voices were recognized,
     and as their cries grew fainter, we knew their lives were
     ebbing away. Our men, risking their lives, carried water to
     some.

     "I find in my diary these lines: 'Sunday, July 31, 1864.
     Everything comparatively quiet along the lines. Hundreds of
     federal soldiers are lying in front of the crater exposed to
     a scorching sun; some are crying for water. The enemy's fire
     is too heavy for a soldier to expose himself.' Late on
     Sunday evening a flag of truce was sent in and forwarded to
     General Lee. General Grant had asked permission to bury his
     dead and remove his wounded. The truce was granted, to begin
     on Monday at 5 A. M. and conclude at 9 A. M. Punctual to the
     hour the federal details came on the field and by 9 A. M.
     had buried about three hundred. The work was hardly begun
     and the truce was extended. Hour after hour was granted
     until it was evening before the field was cleared."

With these selections from the mass of confederate testimony before us, of their "daring, bloody
work," given by participants, it is well to read some of the statements of those who battled
for the Union on that occasion.

Many of the correspondents at the seat of war, ignorant of the real facts regarding the assault,
attributed the failure, not to General Meade's interference with General Burnside's plan, but
to the Phalanx division, the men who bore the brunt of the battle and gained for themselves
a fame for desperate fighting. But some of those who were acquainted with the facts have left
records that tell the true story and give honor to whom honor is due. Gen. Grant is among the
number; he perfectly understood the whole matter, knew that General Burnside, not being allowed
to carry out his own plans, but at the last moment compelled to act contrary to his judgment,
could not fight with that enthusiasm and confidence that he would have done had he been allowed
to carry out his own ideas. In his "Memoirs," General Grant gives an account of the explosion
of the mine and the assault after placing the blame for the "stupendous failure" where it belongs.
I quote a few preliminary words which not only intimate where the trouble lies, but gives the
key to the whole matter. Speaking of General Burnside's command, he says:

     "The four divisions of his corps were commanded by Generals
     Potter, Wilcox, Ledlie and Ferrero. The last was a colored
     division; and Burnside selected it to make the assault.
     Meade interfered with this. Burnside then took Ledlie's
     division--a worse selection than the first could have been.
     * * * * Ledlie, besides being otherwise inefficient, proved
     also to possess disqualifications less common among
     soldiers."

A correspondent of the New York Evening Post says:

     "We have been continually notified for the last fortnight,
     that our sappers were mining the enemy's position. As soon
     as ready, our division was to storm the works on its
     explosion. This rumor had spread so wide we had no faith in
     it. On the night of the 29th, we were in a position on the
     extreme left. We were drawn in about nine P. M., and marched
     to General Burnside's headquarters, and closed in mass by
     division, left in front. We there received official notice
     that the long-looked-for mine was ready charged, and would
     be fired at daylight next morning. The plan of storming was
     as follows: One division of white troops was to charge the
     works immediately after the explosion, and carry the first
     and second lines of rebel intrenchments. Our division was to
     follow immediately, and push right into Petersburg, take the
     city, and be supported by the remainder of the Ninth and
     Twenty-eighth corps. We were up bright and early, ready and
     eager for the struggle to commence. I had been wishing for
     something of this sort to do for some time, to gain the
     respect of the Army of the Potomac. You know their former
     prejudices. At thirty minutes after five, the ball opened.
     The mine, with some fifty pieces of artillery, went off
     almost instantaneously; at the same time, the white troops,
     according to the plan, charged the fort, which they carried,
     for there was nothing to oppose them; but they did not
     succeed in carrying either of the lines of intrenchments.

     "We were held in rear until the development of the movement
     of the white troops; but, on seeing the disaster which was
     about to occur, we pushed in by the flank (for we could go
     in in no other way to allow us to get in position); so you
     see on this failure we had nothing to do but gain by the
     flank. A charge in that manner has never proved successful,
     to my knowledge; when it does, it is a surprise.

     "Our men went forward with enthusiasm equal to anything
     under different circumstances; but, in going through the
     fort that had been blown up, the passage was almost impeded
     by obstacles thrown up by the explosion. At the same time,
     we were receiving a most deadly cross-fire from both flanks.
     At this time, our lieutenant-colonel (E. W. Ross) fell, shot
     through the left leg, bravely leading the men. I immediately
     assumed command, but only to hold it a few minutes, when I
     fell, struck by a piece of shell in the side. Capt.
     Robinson, from Connecticut, then took command; and, from all
     we can learn, he was killed. At this time, our first charge
     was somewhat checked, and the men sought cover in the works.
     Again our charge was made, but, like the former,
     unsuccessful. This was followed by the enemy making a
     charge. Seeing the unorganized condition and the great loss
     of officers, the men fell back to our own works. Yet a large
     number still held the fort until two P. M., when the enemy
     charged again, and carried it. That ended the great attempt
     to take Petersburg.

     "It will be thus seen that the colored troops did not
     compose the first assaulting, but the supporting column; and
     they were not ordered forward until white troops in greater
     numbers had made a desperate effort to carry the rebel
     works, and had failed. Then the colored troops were sent in;
     moved over the broken ground, and up the slope, and within a
     short distance of the parapet, in order, and with steady
     courage; but finally broke and retreated under the same fire
     which just before had sent a whole division of white
     regiments to the right-about. If there be any disgrace in
     that, it does not belong exclusively nor mainly to the
     negroes. A second attack is far more perilous and unlikely
     to succeed than a first; the enemy having been encouraged by
     the failure of the first, and had time to concentrate his
     forces. And, in this case, there seems to have been a fatal
     delay in ordering both the first and second assault."

An officer in the same engagement says:

     "In regard to the bravery of the colored troops, although I
     have been in upwards of twenty battles, I never saw so many
     cases of gallantry. The 'crater,' where we were halted, was
     a perfect slaughter-pen. Had not 'some one blundered,' but
     moved us up at daylight, instead of eight o'clock, we should
     have been crowned with success, instead of being cut to
     pieces by a terrific enfilading fire, and finally forced
     from the field in a panic. We had no trouble in rallying the
     troops and moving them into the rifle-pits; and, in one hour
     after the rout I had nearly as many men together as were
     left unhurt.

     "I was never under such a terrific fire, and can hardly
     realize how any escaped alive. Our loss was heavy. In the
     Twenty-eighth (colored) for instance, commanded by
     Lieut.-Col. Russell (a Bostonian), he lost seven officers
     out of eleven, and ninety-one men out of two hundred and
     twenty-four; and the colonel himself was knocked over
     senseless, for a few minutes, by a slight wound in the head;
     both his color-sergeants and all his color-guard were
     killed. Col. Bross, of the Twenty-ninth, was killed
     outright, and nearly every one of his officers hit. This was
     nearly equal to Bunker Hill. Col. Ross, of the Thirty-first,
     lost his leg. The Twenty-eighth, Twenty-ninth and Thirtieth
     (colored), all charged over the works; climbing up an
     earthwork six feet high, then down into a ditch, and up on
     the other side, all the time under the severest fire in
     front and flank. Not being supported, of course the storming
     party fell back. I have seen white troops run faster than
     these blacks did, when in not half so tight a place. Our
     brigade lost thirty-six prisoners, all cut off after leaving
     the 'crater.' My faith in colored troops is not abated one
     jot.'"

The Congressional Committee on the Conduct of the War investigated the affair, before which
General Grant testified. He was severe upon General Ledlie, whom he regarded as an inefficient
officer; he blamed himself for allowing that officer to lead the assault. General Grant also
testified:

     "General Burnside wanted to put his colored division in
     front; I believe if he had done so it would have been a
     success."

On the morning of the 13th of August, 1864, a brigade of the Phalanx, consisting of the 7th,
8th, 9th and 29th Regiments, crossed from Bermuda Hundreds to the north side of the James river,
on pontoons, near Jones' landing, and bivouacked for the night. General Grant was led to believe
that General Lee had sent a portion of his troops, at least three divisions of infantry, and
one of cavalry, from the front of Petersburg, to re-enforce Gen. Early, then operating in the
valley. Consequently he thought it a favorable opportunity to threaten Richmond, and ordered
Hancock with the 2nd, and Birney with a part of the 10th Corps, with Gregg's Cavalry, to attack
the confederate works on the north side of the James. The object was two-fold: to prevent Lee
from re-enforcing Early, confronted by Sheridan's troops; and likewise to drive the confederates
from out their works. The troops crossed the James on the 13th, the 2d Corps going to Deep
Bottom by transports, the other troops crossing the river by pontoons, and advancing, found
the enemy in force. Several spirited engagements took place, after which the main forces withdrew
again across the river, to the front of Petersburg. The following account applies to the brigade
as well as the 7th Phalanx Regiment, from whose record it is extracted:

     "During the forenoon of the 14th the (7th) Regiment acted as
     reserve, moving forward occasionally as the line advanced.
     Most of the work of the day was done to the right, little
     being done in the immediate front except skirmishing. About
     5 P. M. a portion of the Seventh and Ninth, forming line in
     the edge of some timber, moved across an open field and
     charged upon reaching the farther side and captured the
     enemy's line of rifle-pits. The companies of the Seventh
     pushed on some distance further toward their second line,
     but were met with so severe a fire that they fell back to
     the captured line; which was held. This charge, known as the
     action of Kingsland Road, was made in fine style. The
     battalion of the Seventh was commanded by Capt. Weiss--Col.
     Shaw having been detailed as Corps Officer of the day, and
     Lieut.-Col. Haskell being temporarily in command of the
     brigade. Our losses were two men killed, and one officer
     (Lieut. Eler) and thirty-two men wounded.

     "About 10 o'clock P. M., the troops moved down the road to
     the right, and at 1 o'clock Col. Shaw withdrew the pickets
     of the corps, re-crossed the pontoons, where we had crossed
     in the morning, and moved down the neck. Then followed four
     hours of the most wearisome night-marching--moving a few
     rods at a time and then halting for troops ahead to get out
     of the way; losing sight of them and hurrying forward to
     catch up; straggling out into the darkness, stumbling and
     groping along the rough road, and all the time the rain
     coming down in a most provoking, exasperating drizzle. About
     daylight crossed back to the north side and halted for
     coffee, and then moved forward some four miles and rejoined
     the corps, taking position behind the crest of a hill. The
     Eighth and Twenty-ninth were left in a work on the hill.

     "About 3:30 P. M. orders came to pile knapsacks and be ready
     to march immediately. A little after 4 o'clock the brigade
     moved to the right, some three-quarters of a mile, into an
     open cornfield, and, after halting a few moments, turned
     down a road through the woods to the left with Gen. Wm.
     Birney, who ordered Col. Shaw to throw out skirmishers and
     advance with his brigade down a road which he pointed out,
     find the enemy and attack vigorously, and then rode away.
     Finding the road turning to the left, Col. Shaw sent word to
     Gen. Birney that the designated road would probably bring
     him back on our own line. The order came back from Gen.
     Birney to go ahead. The road still bearing to the left, word
     was again sent that we should strike our own line if we
     continued to advance in the direction we were going. A
     second time the answer came to move on. A third messenger
     having brought from Gen. Birney the same reply, Col. Shaw
     decided to disobey the order and call in the skirmishers.
     Before it could be done firing commenced and continued
     briskly for several minutes, before the men recognized each
     other, and it was discovered that we had been firing into
     our own Second Brigade--Col. Osborn's. This sad affair,
     which would not have occurred had Col Shaw's caution been
     heeded, resulted in the killing of the lieutenant commanding
     the picket-line and the wounding of many men on both sides.
     After this fiasco the brigade moved out into the
     cornfield, where it had halted earlier in the day, and
     bivouacked for the night. The regiment had been more or less
     exposed all day to shell-fire, but lost from it only four or
     five men wounded, in addition to the ten or twelve men
     wounded in the skirmish with Osborn's brigade.

     "Early on the morning of the 16th, the regiment marched back
     to its knapsacks and halted for breakfast. About 10 o'clock
     it was ordered out to support two batteries, and remained on
     this duty until 3 P. M., changing position frequently, in
     the meantime Gen. Terry, with the First Division of the
     Tenth Corps, had charged the rebel line, near Fuzzel's
     mills, and captured it, together with three colors and some
     three hundred prisoners. But the enemy rallied, and with
     reinforcements, soon compelled Gen. Terry to relinquish the
     captured line. About dark Gen. Wm. Birney came up, and
     taking the left wing of the Seventh--the right wing, under
     Col. Shaw, was in support of a battery--and two companies of
     the Ninth, placed them under command of Lieut.-Col. Haskell,
     and ordered him with this handful of men to take an
     earthwork in his front which a division a short time before
     had failed to carry. The timely arrival of Gen. Terry put an
     end to this mad scheme. The regiment lost during the day
     eight or ten men wounded.

     "The general results of the day's fighting had been
     unsatisfactory, for not only had Terry's attack failed in
     its object, but the advance on the right, along the Charles
     City road, by the troops of the Second Corps and Gregg's
     cavalry division, had been equally unsuccessful. The rebel
     General Chambliss was among the killed.

     "About 2:30 A. M. of the 17th, the left wing of the regiment
     was sent back to a line of rifle-pits that had been thrown
     up some two hundred yards to the rear, where it was joined
     by the right wing in the morning after breakfast.
     Picket-firing continued during the day and heavy artillery
     firing was heard in the direction of Petersburg. At 4 P. M.
     a flag of truce was sent out and two hours given to bring in
     the dead from between the lines. Gen. Chambliss' body was
     delivered, and we received that of Capt. Williams, of the
     Thirty-ninth Illinois. Early in the evening the regiment was
     ordered on picket. Considerable picket-firing occurred
     during the night and day, the men being with difficulty
     restrained from it. We were relieved about noon of the 18th
     by the One Hundred and Fifteenth New York and Seventy-sixth
     Pennsylvania. * * *

     "Early in the morning the Eighth and the Twenty-ninth
     Connecticut rejoined the regiment, and after the regiment
     was relieved from picket, it, with the Twenty-ninth, fell
     back a quarter of a mile, leaving the Eighth and Ninth on
     the line. Rations having been drawn, the men got supper and
     prepared for a good night's sleep. Suddenly a heavy musketry
     fire broke out toward the left which rapidly extended to the
     right and the entire line was soon under fire. The regiment
     moved forward at double-quick, but by the time it reached
     the front and formed line, darkness set in and the enemy
     fell back. About 11 P. M. our forces were withdrawn, and,
     after several hours spent in marching and halting, the
     regiment went into camp two miles from the pontoons. Here it
     lay all day of the 19th. The following congratulatory order
     was received from corps headquarters, in which the brigade
     was spoken of in very flattering terms by Maj.-Gen. D. B.
     Birney, commanding:

                  "'HEADQUARTERS TENTH ARMY CORPS,
                        FUZZEL'S MILLS, VA., August 19, 1864.

     "'General Orders.--The Major-General commanding
     congratulates the Tenth Army Corps upon its success. It has,
     on each occasion, when ordered, broken the enemy's strong
     lines. It has captured during this short campaign four siege
     guns protected by formidable works, six colors and many
     prisoners. It has proved itself worthy of its old Wagner and
     Fort Sumter renown.

     "'Much fatigue, patience and heroism, may still be demanded
     of it, but the Major-General commanding is confident of the
     response. To the colored troops, recently added to us, and
     fighting with us, the Major-General tenders his thanks for
     their uniform good conduct and soldierly bearing. They have
     set a good example to our veterans, by the entire absence of
     straggling from their ranks on the march.

     "'By order of Maj.-Gen. D. B. BIRNEY.

                                        "'E.W. SMITH,
     Lieutenant-Colonel and Assistant Adjutant-General.'

     "The special correspondent of the New York Tribune said:

     "'Gen. Butler, in a dispatch to the Tenth Corps, on
     receiving official report of its work, said: 'All honor to
     the brave Tenth Corps; you have done more than was expected
     of you by the Lieutenant-General.'

     "'The loss in the four colored regiments is about three
     hundred. The Seventh U. S. C. T. on the first day, carried,
     with fixed bayonets, a line of rifle-pits, and carried it
     without a shot, but with a loss of 35. It was one of the
     most stirring and gallant affairs I have ever known'.

     "It began to rain in the afternoon and continued during the
     night and until nearly noon of the following day, 20th.
     During the afternoon of the 20th, orders were received to
     send all sick to the rear and be ready to withdraw quietly
     at dark. The movement began at 7 P. M., both the Second and
     Tenth Corps participating--the Second Corps and the cavalry
     returning to the Petersburg line, and the Tenth to the
     Bermuda Hundred front. The night was dark and the roads
     muddy, and after various delays the pontoons were crossed;
     and at 2 A. M., the regiment went into camp near the spot it
     occupied the first night after its arrival in Virginia.

     "An amusing incident occurred when we halted, after crossing
     the river. When the fires were lighted our line presented
     the appearance of a checker-board--alternate black and white
     men. The latter belonged to the Second Corps, and having
     straggled from their commands, and belonging to regiments
     with the same numbers, had fallen into our solid ranks by
     mistake. Their astonishment and our amusement were about
     equal. Capt. Walker, having been asked if his men were all
     present, replied: 'Yes, and about twenty recruits.'

     "Thus ended a very hard week's work, during which the
     regiment was almost constantly under fire; marching,
     counter-marching, supporting a battery here or strengthening
     the line there--duties which required almost constant
     wakefulness and watchfulness. The losses of the brigade
     footed up some two hundred and fifty.

     "This movement, which had begun on the 12th by the
     withdrawal of the Second Corps, Gen. Hancock, and Gregg's
     cavalry division, from the Petersburg front to the north
     bank of the James, to act in conjunction with the Tenth
     Corps in an attempt to turn the left of the rebel line,
     proved as abortive as the similar attempt made by the same
     corps in the latter part of June; Gen. Lee, in both
     instances, seeming to have received timely information of
     our plans to enable him to transfer re-enforcements from the
     Petersburg to the Richmond front. The Union losses during
     the movement have been estimated at five thousand.

     "Sunday, the 21st, was a day of rest. The men put up shelter
     tents and made themselves as comfortable as circumstances
     would allow. Gen. Birney resumed command of the brigade and
     Col. Shaw returned to the regiment. About 6 P. M. orders
     came to be ready to move during the night with one day's
     rations. Moved out of camp at 2 A. M., 22nd, and reported at
     Maj.-Gen. Birney's headquarters, where, after remaining a
     short time, the regiment returned to camp. About 8 P. M.
     orders were received to pack everything, and at 5 the
     regiment marched to the front and went into the trenches
     near Battery Walker, (No. 7), relieving a regiment of
     hundred-days' men, whose time had expired.

     "The 23d passed quietly. Tents were pitched, and in the
     evening a dress-parade was held. Lieut. Mack returned to
     duty from absent sick.

     "Line was formed at dawn on the 24th, and again about
     noon--rapid picket-firing in each instance rendering an
     attack probable.

     "About daybreak on the 25th, the enemy attacked toward the
     left, drove in our pickets--Capts. Weld and Thayer in
     command--but were checked before reaching the main line. The
     regiment was placed in support of Battery England (No. 5).
     Two men were wounded.

     "Some changes in the division here took place--the
     Twenty-ninth Connecticut was transferred to another brigade,
     and the Tenth U. S. C. T. to ours, and Col. Duncan was
     placed in command.

     "About noon (25th) packed up everything, crossed the
     Appomattox, and after a fatiguing march through the heat and
     dust, reached the Petersburg front a little before sunset
     and halted for orders. Soon after dark moved to the left in
     a heavy rain squall, and lay down on a hillside as reserve
     to the troops in the trenches. At 11 P. M. ordered to report
     to Gen. Terry. Marched back a mile and reported. Another
     mile's march in another direction brought the regiment,
     about 1 A. M., to its position, where it lay down in the
     woods, again as a reserve. A rattling fire of musketry was
     kept up all night.

     "On the 26th, a camp was selected and had been partially
     cleared up, when orders were received for the regiment to go
     into the trenches. Reported at brigade headquarters at
     sunset, and soon afterward, through the mud and darkness,
     the men silently felt their way into the trenches, which the
     rain had reduced to the condition of a quagmire. It was a
     slow process, and 10 o'clock came before all were in their
     places.

     "During the following day (27th,) the parapet was raised and
     paths made through the muddier portions of the trenches.
     Soon after dark a furious cannonade began which lasted for
     several hours, and afforded to the spectators on both sides
     a brilliant pyrotechnic display.

     "Just after daybreak on the 28th, the enemy opened a heavy
     musketry fire which lasted until after sunrise. He did not
     leave his works, however, and our men remained stationary. A
     man of Company B, while watching for a shot through a
     section of stove-pipe, which he had improvised into a
     port-hole, was struck and killed by a sharpshooter's bullet.

     "Soon after midnight on the 28th-29th, the regiment moved
     out of the trenches, and after daylight marched a quarter of
     a mile to the right and rear and went into camp in a
     cornfield. The men were at once put to work constructing
     bomb-proofs, as the position was within sight and range of
     the enemy's line. This occupied the entire day.

     "Brig.-Gen. Birney's arrangement of the brigade did not seem
     to have given satisfaction to higher authority, and it was
     broken up, and the old brigade--Seventh, Eighth, Ninth U. S.
     C. T., and Twenty-ninth Connecticut--were again united, with
     Col. Shaw in command.

     "From this time until the 24th of September, the Seventh and
     Eighth alternated with the Ninth and Twenty-ninth for duty
     in the trenches--two days in and two out; and on the 'off'
     days furnishing details of officers and men for fatigue
     purposes, in constructing new works and strengthening old
     ones. The main lines at this point were scarcely over a
     hundred yards apart, while from the advanced posts a stone
     could almost be thrown into the enemy's works, and it was
     considered the most disagreeable portion of the line.

     "During the evening of the 4th of September, there was a
     grand salute along the whole line, in honor of the fall of
     Atlanta. At every battery the men stood at the guns, and
     when the monster mortar--"The Petersburg Express"--gave the
     expected signal, every lanyard was pulled. The effect was
     exceedingly grand.

     "At 9 o'clock on the morning of the 5th, the regiment met
     with an irreparable loss in the death of Capt. A. R. Walker.
     Capt. Walker, who was at the time in the trenches, had
     raised his head above the parapet to observe the enemy's
     movements, when he was struck in the head by a bullet, and
     fell without speaking against the parapet. He was carried
     back and laid upon the ground in rear of the trench, but all
     efforts failed to elicit any token of recognition. He
     breathed for a few moments and life was extinct. His body
     was sent to the rear the same afternoon under charge of
     Lieut. Teeple, upon whom the command of his company
     devolved, who made the necessary arrangements for having it
     embalmed and forwarded to his friends at Caledonia, New
     York.

            *       *       *       *

     "On the 14th Col. Howell, who was commanding the division in
     the absence of Gen. Birney, who was absent sick, died of
     injuries received from a fall from his horse, and the
     command of the division devolved upon Col. Pond. Col. Howell
     was highly esteemed, and was a thorough gentleman and a good
     officer.

     "On the 17th, Sergt. Wilson, Company F, color-sergeant, was
     reduced to the ranks for cowardice, and Sergt. Griffin,
     Company B, appointed in his place.

     "On the 21st, Capt. Thayer resigned.

     "On the 22d, Gen. Birney returned and resumed command of the
     brigade; the division having been temporarily broken up by
     the withdrawal of troops, and Col. Shaw returned to the
     regiment.

     "On the 23d, companies B and C were detailed to garrison
     Fort Steadman.

     "On the evening of the 24th, the regiment was relieved from
     duty in the trenches by the Sixty-ninth New York, and moving
     about two miles to the rear, went into camp with the
     remainder of the brigade--some four miles from City Point.
     Here regular drills and parades were resumed.

     "At 3 P. M. on the 28th, camp was broken, and an hour later
     the brigade followed the two divisions of the corps on the
     road toward Bermuda Hundred. A tedious night-march followed,
     during which the north side of the James was reached by way
     of Broadway and Jones' landings. After an hour or two of
     rest on the morning of the 29th, the brigade moved forward
     as a support to the First Division (Paine's), the First
     Brigade of which, under Col. Duncan, charged and carried the
     enemy's works on Signal-Hill, on the New Market road, beyond
     the line of works taken by the Seventh and Ninth on the 14th
     of August.[32] [See foot-note next page.] * * * The
     Eighteenth Corps at the same time charged and carried Fort
     Harrison and a long line of rebel works. Soon after noon,
     while the brigade, which had been moving by the flank down
     the New Market road, had halted in the road, orders came to
     form column of regiments, faced to the left, in the woods.
     Scarcely had this been done when Gen. Wm. Birney, commanding
     brigade, rode up to the right of the column and ordered the
     Seventh to move off by the right flank. As it was crossing
     the Mill road, Col. Shaw reached the head of the line and
     received from him the order to "form on the right by file
     into line, and charge and take the work that is firing," and
     adding, "if that work is taken when you reach it, push right
     on and take the next before Gen. Foster can get there." In
     the meantime the Ninth had charged a work on the right and
     had been repulsed, and the commanding officer of the Eighth
     had been ordered to send four companies deployed as
     skirmishers to take the work to the left, but when Major
     Wagner found how strong it was he halted his line and
     remained in advance as skirmishers. As the regiment was
     forming for the charge, behind the crest of a knoll, Capt.
     Bailey, Gen. Birney's Adjutant-General, rode up to Col. Shaw
     with the order to send four companies deployed as
     skirmishers to 'attack and take the work that is firing.'
     Col. Shaw replied that he had orders to charge it with his
     regiment, to which Capt. Bailey answered, 'well, now the
     General directs you to send four companies, deployed as
     skirmishers, to take the work.' Lieut.-Col. Haskell, being
     absent on leave, and Maj. Mayer sick, companies C, D, G and
     K were placed under command of Capt. Weiss, who, when he
     received the order to charge, replied, 'what! take a fort
     with a skirmish line?' and then added, 'I will try, but it
     can't be done.' What followed can best be described by
     quoting his own words:

     "Captain Weiss says: 'I at once, about 1 P. M., ordered the
     four companies on the right of the regiment, C, D, G and K,
     twenty-five or thirty paces to the front, where a slight
     depression in the ground secured them from the eyes, if not
     the projectiles, of the enemy. After being deployed by the
     flank on the right of the second company from the right, the
     command advanced in ordinary quick step against the
     objective point. Emerging from the swale into view, it
     became at once the target for a seemingly redoubled fire,
     not only from the fort in front, but also from the one on
     its right. The fire of the latter had been reported
     silenced, but instead, from its position to the left
     oblique, it proved even more destructive than that of the
     one in front.

     "'Both forts were most advantageously situated for defense,
     at the extremity of a plain, variously estimated at from 500
     to 700 yards wide, whose dead level surface afforded at no
     point shelter from view or shot to an assailing party. The
     forts were connected by a curtain of rifle-pits containing a
     re-entrant angle, thus providing for a reciprocal enfilading
     fire in case either was attacked.

     "'The nature of the ground and the small altitude of the
     ordnance above the level of the plain also made the fire in
     the nature of a ricochet.

     "'As the party advanced the enemy's shell and schrapnel were
     exchanged for grape and cannister, followed soon by a lively
     rattle of musketry. When within range of the latter, and
     after having traversed about three-fourths of the distance,
     the order to charge was given and obeyed with an alacrity
     that seemed to make the execution almost precede the order.
     For a moment, judging from the slacking of their fire, the
     enemy seemed to be affected by a panicky astonishment, but
     soon recovering, they opened again with cannister and
     musketry, which, at the shorter range, tore through the
     ranks with deadlier effect. Capt. Smith and Lieut. Prime,
     both of Company G, here fell grievously wounded, while forty
     or fifty enlisted-men dotted the plain with their prostrate
     forms.

     "'In a few minutes the ditch of the fort was reached. It was
     some six or seven feet deep and ten or twelve wide, the
     excavated material sufficing for the embankments of the
     fort. Some 120 men and officers precipitated themselves into
     it, many losing their lives at its very edge. After a short
     breathing spell men were helped up the exterior of the
     parapet on the shoulders of others; fifty or sixty being
     thus disposed an attempt was made to storm the fort. At the
     signal nearly all rose, but the enemy, lying securely
     sheltered behind the interior slope, the muzzles of their
     guns almost touching the storming party, received the latter
     with a crushing fire, sending many into the ditch below shot
     through the brain or breast. Several other attempts were
     made with like result, till at last forty or fifty of the
     assailants were writhing in the ditch or resting forever.

     "'The defense having been obviously re-enforced meanwhile
     from other points not so directly attacked, and having armed
     the gunners with muskets, it was considered impolitic to
     attempt another storm with the now greatly reduced force on
     hand, especially as the cessation of the artillery fire of
     the fort was considered a sufficient hint to the commander
     of the Union forces that the attacking party had come to
     close quarters and were proper subjects for re-enforcements.
     No signs, however, of the latter appearing, it was decided
     to surrender, especially as the rebels had now commenced to
     roll lighted shells among the stormers, against which there
     was no defense, thus inviting demoralization. Seven
     officers, Capts. Weiss and McCarty, Lieuts. Sherman, Mack,
     Spinney, Ferguson and Eler, and from seventy to eighty
     enlisted-men, delivered up their arms to an enemy gallant
     enough to have fought for a better cause.

     "'Many, in mounting the parapet, could not help taking a
     last mournful look on their dead comrades in the ditch,
     whose soldierly qualities had endeared them to their best
     affections; and many, without for a moment selfishly looking
     at their own dark future, were oppressed with inexpressible
     sadness when reflecting on the immensity of the sacrifice
     and the deplorableness of the result. It was a time for
     manly tears.'

     "Lieut. Spinney gives the following account of the charge
     against Fort Gilmer:

     "'The charge was made in quick time, in open order of about
     three paces, until we could plainly see the enemy; then the
     order was given by Capt. Weiss to 'double-quick,' which was
     promptly obeyed, the line preserving its order as upon
     drill. Upon arriving at the ditch there was no wavering, but
     every man jumped into the trap from which but one man
     returned that day (George W. Washington, Company D.)

     "'Upon looking about us after getting into the ditch we
     found there was but one face where the enemy could not touch
     us, so all the survivors rallied at that face. Then
     commenced a scene which will always be very fresh in my
     memory.

     "'Capt. Weiss gave orders to raise men upon the parapet,
     which was done by two men assisting one to climb. Capt.
     Weiss, having from thirty to forty men up, attempted to gain
     the inside of the fort, but he with all of his storming
     party were knocked back, either killed or wounded, into the
     ditch. A second attempt was made with the same result,
     Lieut. Ferguson being wounded by a bullet across the top of
     his head. A third attempt was made with no better success.

     "'The enemy during this time had been rolling shell upon us,
     and calling upon us to surrender, which was answered by some
     of the men in the words, 'we will show you how to
     surrender,' at the same time rising and firing into the
     fort. One of these men I remember to have been Perry
     Wallace, Company D.

     "'Upon a consultation of the officers who were in the ditch,
     it was decided to surrender what was left of the command. I
     was still upon the face of the parapet, when Lieut. Sherman
     passed me a handkerchief which I raised upon the point of my
     sword. But the rebels, fearing it was only done to gain a
     foothold, would not take notice of it, but called upon me to
     come in, which I did, and met with a warm reception at their
     hands, being plucked of all they could lay hands upon. An
     adjutant of an Alabama regiment coming up, ordered his men
     to return to me what they had taken, but this was not done,
     however. I stated that our men had disarmed themselves and
     were ready to give up the hopeless struggle. Still they
     would not believe me, but made me mount the parapet first,
     when they had the courage to do so themselves, when the
     remnant of the four companies marched into the fort.

     "'The march to Richmond was one continued insult from the
     troops that were hurrying to the front; one man being
     determined to kill Capt. Weiss, whom he thought was not
     humble enough. The female portion of the inhabitants were
     also very insolent.

     "'Upon arriving at Libby Prison the officer in charge asked
     the commander of our guard if the 'niggers' would fight. His
     answer was, 'by G--d! if you had been there you would have
     thought so. They marched up just as if they were on drill,
     not firing a shot.'

     "'After being lodged in Libby, Salisbury and Danville
     prisons, we were returned to Richmond about February 17th,
     paroled on the 21st, and reached our lines on the 22d.'

     "An article in the New York Herald of November 4th, 1864,
     copied from a rebel newspaper, arguing for the arming of
     slaves, has in it the following passage:

     "'But A. B. says that negroes will not fight. We have before
     us a letter from a distinguished general (we wish we were at
     liberty to use his name and influence) who says 'Fort Gilmer
     proved the other day that they would fight. They raised each
     other on the parapet to be shot as they appeared above.'

     "The officer referred to was understood to be Gen. Lee.

     "After the four companies had disappeared in the ditch of
     the fort, Capt. Pratt, with Company F, was ordered to move
     forward as near the work as he could get and keep down its
     fire and cover their retreat. Capt. Smith and Lieut. Prime
     came back, both severely wounded. Later in the day companies
     A, B, E and I, under Capt. Spaulding, moved to the left and
     relieved the four companies of the Eighth, who were out of
     ammunition. Co. F lost two men killed and twenty-three
     wounded, and the four companies under Capt. Spaulding had
     eleven men killed and wounded. Lieut. Teeple, commanding
     Company I, was wounded in the arm, but remained in command
     of his company during the day.

     "Four companies annihilated, 70 killed, 110 wounded and 129
     missing tells the story of Fort Gilmer.

     "The regiment, or what was left of it, remained at the front
     until 9 o'clock P. M., when the wounded were gathered
     together and it moved half a mile to the rear and slept on
     its arms.

     "This day proved the most unfortunate one in the history of
     the regiment. The storming of a strong field-work, whose
     garrison was on the alert, with a thin skirmish line without
     supports, resulted as could easily have been foreseen.
     First, the Ninth was sent unsupported to charge a work to
     the left of Fort Gilmer, across an open field where its line
     was enfiladed by the enemy's fire, and was repulsed; then
     four companies of the Eighth, as skirmishers, were sent
     against the same work, with no better success, and after
     this bitter experience, four companies of the Seventh were
     sent to their destruction on an errand equally hopeless. Had
     the brigade been sent together, instead of its three
     regiments in detail, the rebel line would have been carried
     and the road to Richmond opened to us. This is no
     conjecture. The testimony of a rebel staff-officer on duty
     at Fort Gilmer, and that of our own officers who were
     captured, fully substantiate the statement.

     "About noon on the following day, the 30th, the regiment
     moved a mile to the left and went into the rifle-pits to the
     left of Fort Harrison. Soon after, the rebel Maj.-Gen.
     Field, who had commanded the Ft. Gilmer line the day
     previous, made a determined assault on Fort Harrison from
     one side, while Hoke's division attacked on the other; but
     the attack was not made simultaneously and was repulsed with
     heavy loss. While this charge was being made, Col. Shaw was
     struck on the head by a rifle bullet, but was uninjured. The
     next morning the rebels opened their batteries on our line.
     During the cannonade, Lieut. Bjornmark was wounded in the
     foot by the fragment of a shell.

     "The following is the report of Capt. Weiss to the
     commanding officer of the regiment, announcing his arrival
     in Richmond:

     "'LIBBY PRISON, RICHMOND, VA., September 30, 1864.

     "'Sir:--I respectfully inform you that the following
     officers of the Seventh U. S. C. T. are here, prisoners:
     Capts. Weiss and McCarty, Lieuts. Mack, Sherman, Eler,
     Ferguson and Spinney. Lieut. Ferguson and myself are wounded
     in the head, but doing well.

     "'Please inform our friends of the above, and oblige,

         "'Yours, on the part of my associates,

             "'JULIUS A. WEISS,

                 "'Capt. Seventh U. S. C. T."

     "On the 5th of October, the regiment was relieved from duty
     in the trenches by the Eight, and moving a short distance to
     the rear, went into camp near division headquarters.

     "On the 6th, Gen. Birney divided the regiments of his
     command into two brigades. The First Brigade, composed of
     the Seventh, Ninth and One Hundred and Twenty-seventh, was
     placed under command of Col. Voris, of the Sixty-seventh
     Ohio, although each regiment had a colonel serving with it;
     and the Second, composed of the Eighth, Twenty-ninth and
     Forty-fifth, under Lieut.-Col. Armstrong, of the Ninth.
     Capt. Rice returned from sick-leave the same day and was
     assigned to the command of Company A, his own company (K)
     having disappeared in the melee of the 29th of September.

     "During the forenoon of the 7th, the enemy attacked in force
     on the right, driving in Kautz's cavalry and capturing
     Elder's battery of the First United States Artillery, but
     was checked and driven back by the First Division of the
     Tenth Corps. The regiment was moved to the right, and after
     changing positions several times, went into the trenches
     near the New Market road.

     "On the afternoon of the 12th, orders came for the regiment
     to be ready to move in light marching order, and later it
     moved out about half of a mile to the front and right, and
     deployed two companies as skirmishers. Shortly after dark it
     was withdrawn to the position it held earlier in the day. A
     cold rain was falling, and as the men were without
     overcoats, they suffered considerably.

     "About 3 o'clock on the morning of the 13th, our own
     division (Third), together with the First, moved out of camp
     and marched to the right until it reached the Darbytown
     road. Here it formed line, and advancing through the thick
     undergrowth finally lay down in front of the enemy's works
     to await developments. At 10 o'clock the First Division,
     which, with the cavalry, had gone to the right, charged the
     enemy's line, but failed to break it and had to withdraw
     with considerable loss. About noon the regiment relieved the
     Eighth on the skirmish line. Capt. Dickey, of the Eighth,
     was killed during the movement. Here it remained until about
     4 o'clock, when, the remainder of the division having been
     withdrawn, it fell back covering the movement of the corps
     and returned to its old camp on the New Market road. * * *

     "The regiment remained in camp until the 26th, furnishing in
     the meantime a large picket detail, together with details
     for fatigue, employed in the construction of earthworks,
     abattis, etc. On this date Col. Voris was relieved from
     command of the brigade by Col. Shaw, Lieut.-Col. Haskell
     taking command of the regiment.

     "On the evening of this day orders were received for the
     regiment to be ready to move on the following morning, with
     three days' cooked rations, and in light marching order. At
     5 A. M. we moved out of camp and took the road toward the
     right. The Eighteenth, as well as our own corps, was in
     motion. The orders were for the Tenth Corps to threaten the
     enemy's line near the Darbytown road, while the Eighteenth
     moving by the rear to the right, was to strike their left
     flank. If they weakened their line in its front, the Tenth
     Corps was to advance. The whole movement being made to cover
     the advance of the Army of the Potomoc against the rebel
     lines covering Hatcher's run and the Boydtown plank-road.

     "Marching about two miles to the right we struck the
     Darbytown road, when line of battle was formed to the left,
     and moved forward through the woods, and, in places, almost
     impassable undergrowth--the Seventh having the left of the
     division as well of the line. Our ears were soon greeted
     with the scattering fire of our skirmish line, interspersed
     by the crashing of an occasional shell through the
     tree-tops. After an advance of half a mile the division
     halted to await the result of the attack on the right. The
     irregular skirmish fire soon swelled out into long, heavy
     volleys, deepened by the hoarser notes of the artillery.
     From 8 A. M. until 8 P. M. we lay and listened to this
     concert of diabolical sounds, momentarily expecting the
     order would be passed along the line to advance. About 11 A.
     M. it began to rain, which continued until far into the
     night. At 8 P. M. we fell back out of the woods, behind an
     old line of rebel rifle-pits, and bivouacked for the night
     near Kell's House.

     "At 3 o'clock the following morning we were ordered in to
     relieve the Twenty-ninth on the picket-line. The clouds had
     cleared away and the air was keen and cold. We felt our way
     through the dense, dripping undergrowth to the musical
     accompaniment of rebel bullets singing above our heads. By
     daybreak we were in position along the edge of a belt of
     woods, something less than a quarter of a mile from the
     rebel works. Their skirmishers kept up a lively fire all
     through the forenoon, and as a consequence we lost some
     thirty odd men, killed and wounded, from their fire. About 3
     P. M. orders were given to fall back, but through some
     misunderstanding, the two companies holding the extreme left
     of the line failed to receive the order, and held their
     ground until their retreat was nearly cut off by the rebel
     advance, when they fell back without orders, meeting on
     their way the remainder of the brigade coming to their
     rescue. The same evening the troops returned to their camps.

     "Here ended our fighting for the fall. * * *

     "On the 28th, Gen. Birney returned and relieved Gen. Hawley
     in command of the division, which he had held during the
     absence of the former in Philadelphia, where he had gone
     about the 21st to attend the funeral of his brother,
     Maj.-Gen. D. B. Birney. Col. Shaw was placed permanently in
     command of the First Brigade, and Col. Wright, Tenth U. S.
     C. T., of the Second.

     "About the 30th, a general order was received from Gen.
     Butler thanking Capt. Weiss and the officers under him for
     their gallant conduct on the 29th, and saying that their
     absence in prison alone prevented their promotion.

     "On the 1st of November, the division was reviewed by Gen.
     Birney, and the proclamation of the Governor of Maryland,
     announcing the adoption of the constitutional amendment
     abolishing slavery in that State, was read to the command.
     This paper, which conveyed to the men the knowledge that
     their wives and children were no longer slaves, produced an
     effect more easily imagined than described.

            *       *       *       *

     "On the 5th, Capt. Cheney and Lieut. Teeple, with companies
     H and I, were detached from the regiment to garrison Fort
     'No. 3,' at Spring Hill--a work on the right flank of the
     Army of the James--where they remained until the 6th of
     December.

     "On the 1st of December, the reorganization of the Tenth and
     Eighteenth Corps was determined upon. The white troops of
     the two corps were consolidated and formed the
     Twenty-fourth Corps, under Gen. Foster; and the colored
     troops of the Ninth, Tenth and Eighteenth Corps, with other
     colored troops not assigned, formed the Twenty-fifth Corps,
     under Gen. Weitzel. Its three divisions were commanded by
     Gens. Wild, Birney and Paine, respectively. The First
     Brigade of Birney's division was made up of the Seventh, One
     Hundred and Ninth, One Hundred and Sixteenth and One hundred
     and Seventeenth, under Col. Shaw. The Forty-first
     Forty-fifth and One Hundred and Twenty-seventh had at
     different times been attached to the brigade--to learn our
     ways, as they said at headquarters. Eventually, however,
     the One Hundred and Fifteenth was substituted for the One
     Hundred and Seventeenth in the brigade.

     "On the 4th, a general re-assignment of positions was made.
     The Seventh moved from the New Market road to Fort Burnham
     (Harrison), which was garrisoned by the First Brigade. The
     Second Brigade, under Doubleday, was on our right, and the
     Third on our left. The Second Brigade joined the
     Twenty-fourth Corps, near the New Market road, and Paine's
     division was on our left and extended to the river. The
     other division was in reserve to the rear. The Seventh was
     under command of Lieut.-Col. Pratt, and so remained during
     the remainder of our stay in Virginia."

The prolonged but decisive struggle began to draw near. General Grant had pushed the troops
nearer and closer, at every opportunity, to the beleaguered cities, until they were well-nigh
completely invested. General Sherman's splendid victories influenced the veteran corps lying
before these places, and filled them with the spirit of sure success. The intrepid commander,
having reached North Carolina, visited Grant at the latter's headquarters at City Point, where
he also found President Lincoln, and received their congratulations for his successful march
to the sea, which achievement had not been surpassed by any of the undertakings of either Hannibal
or Bonaparte in point of daring and strategy. An important conference then took place, and
on the 28th of March Sherman returned to his command.

Grant throughout the winter had been preparing for the spring campaign. The Phalanx regiments
heretofore in the 9th, 10th and 18th Corps had been consolidated, and formed the 25th Corps,
under the command of Major-General Godfrey Weitzel, who at New Orleans refused to command negro
troops. The Corps was divided into three divisions, with Brigadier-Generals Wilde, Birney and
Paine as commanders. Major-General Ord had succeeded to the command of the Army of the James,
then numbering about 28,000 effective men, and was to take part with three divisions of his
command in the onward movement to commence on the 29th of March, while Weitzel was to command
the remainder of the troops north of the James and at Bermuda Hundreds.

Lee, as though he had knowledge of Grant's intention and meant to frustrate his plans by taking
the initiative, attacked the 9th Corps at Fort Steadman on the 25th, with signal success. He
was finally repulsed, however, and Grant began moving the Union troops. On the morning of the
29th, General Birney with the 2nd Division of the 25th Corps was near Hatcher's Run, with General
Ord's command. The division consisted of three brigades of Phalanx Infantry, commanded by Colonels
James Shaw, Jr., Ulysses Doubleday and William W. Woodward. A brigade of artillery commanded
by Captain Louis L. Langdon was attached to the Corps; but, owing to the country being wooded,
it was of little use, and most of it was left on the north side with General Weitzel.

On the same day Sheridan reached Dinwiddie, and the next morning he encountered the confederates
near the Court House. Here were W. H. F. Lee's Cavalry, Picket's and Bushrod Johnson's divisions
of Infantry, and Wise's brigade. Sheridan made the attack. His men, on account of the marshy
ground, had to dismount. The confederates fought desperately, but Sheridan's men contested
every inch of ground, and at night fell back to Dinwiddie Court House and bivouacked. The 5th
Corps came up during the night to attack the confederates in the rear; but at daylight it was
found that they had fallen back to Five Forks. Here was found the cavalry of W. H. F. Lee and
Fitzhugh Lee, with Ross', Picket's, Wise's and Johnson's divisions of infantry. On the morning
of the 1st of April, Sheridan advanced the 5th Corps toward Five Forks. That afternoon it fell
upon Picket's rear, and now began the decisive battle. The roar was deafening. Night was coming
on, and Sheridan was anxious to carry out Grant's order and "end the matter if possible to
do so." He gave the order, "Charge bayonets!" In five minutes Picket's outer line was in possession
of the federals. Crawford's division struck them in the flank, and, with McKenzie's brigade,
routed and sent the confederates flying. The 5th Corps rallied and captured the enemy's entire
force in their front. General Sheridan says in report:

     "The enemy were driven from their strong line of works,
     completely routed, the Fifth Corps doubling up their left
     flank in confusion, and the cavalry of General Merritt
     dashing on to the White Oak Road, capturing their artillery,
     turning it upon them, and riding into their broken ranks, so
     demoralized them that they made no serious stand after their
     line was carried, but took flight in disorder."

The writer well remembers the eagerness of the Phalanx brigade of Colonel Shaw, composed of
the 109th, 116th and 7th Regiments, as they waited orders near Hatcher's Run. The sound of
distant guns fell upon their ears; Colonel Shaw was impatient; all seemed to feel the end was
near, and wanted to lend a hand in the consummation. Oh, what suspense! The brigade lay upon
their arms in a state of great agitation, all that night, waiting for orders to advance upon
the foe. Who can tell the thoughts of those brave black soldiers as thus they lay upon the
rumbling earth. Fathers, mothers, sisters, wives and children, yet slaves, behind the enemy's
guns: precious property they are, and guarded like dearest treasure and even life itself, by
an army of slave-holders--Lee's men, who, with the desperation of demons, vainly attempted
to check the advance of the men of the North, who, with their lives, defended the Union. The
black brigade wanted to strike one more blow for freedom--for the freedom of their wives and
children--to make one more charge, and the confederate banner should go down; one more charge,
and the light of Liberty's stars should blazon over the ramparts of the confederate forts.
At length, with the dawning of day, came the order; then the black brigade went forward, but
to find the enemy gone and their works deserted.

The confederate lines were broken, and Sheridan's troopers, McKenzie and Merritt, with their
cavalry, although it was night, had followed up the fleeing foe, capturing them by thousands.
The brigade pushed on along the captured works. The federal batteries, from every mound and
hill, were showering shot and shell into the enemy's inner works; while the gleaming bayonets
of the thousands of infantry could be seen as far as the eye could reach, their proud banners
kissing the stifling air, and the bugles sounding the "forward march," leaving in their rear
smoking camps and blazing dwellings. What a Sunday morning was that, with its thunders of terrific
war, instead of the mellow chimes of church bells and the repose of peace.

It was late in the afternoon, and huge, black clouds of smoke rolled up out of the city of
Petersburg, and then a loud report, told that the confederates had evacuated it. Away to the
left, the huzzas of Colonel Doubleday's Phalanx brigade (2nd) were heard. Now came a race to
reach the city, between the 7th and 8th Phalanx regiments. No matter which was first, they
were among the troops which took possession of the city, and gladdened the hearts of the negro
population, as they marched through the streets singing their battle song:

    "We will hang Jeff Davis on a sour apple-tree as we go marching on."

It was a glorious victory, bringing freedom to thousands of slaves, though it cost as many
lives and millions of treasure. It was the beginning of the end. The confederates deserted
their army by thousands. The South Side Railroad was in the hands of the federals, and starvation
threatened the enemy. Lee, says a historian, was no longer himself: he rode wildly through
his camps hither, and thither, trying to save his shattered and routed soldiers from annihilation.

The defeat at Five Forks settled the fate of the Army of North Virginia. Grant had almost the
entire federal army actively engaged; he stopped the exchange of prisoners, invited President
Lincoln, then at City Point, to come out and see the army advance, which he did. He met Grant
in the city of Petersburg, amid the exultations of the troops and the joyous demonstrations
of the negro population. General Lee made no stop at Richmond; he had informed Jefferson Davis
that he must give up the city. The latter, with his aids and all the money he could collect,--not
the confederate paper, but the gold of the United States,--stampeded.

General Weitzel, with Kautz's division of the 24th Corps and Thomas' and Ashborne's division
of the 25th Corps, on the north side of the James river, lay quietly upon their arms during
the fight on the south side. Grant kept Weitzel informed as to the results of the attack, and
warned him to be on the alert and take every advantage offered, to press the confederates.
General Longstreet's forces had been in Weitzel's front, but were partly withdrawn to defend
Petersburg; therefore the latter kept unceasing vigil upon the fortifications before him.

Sunday evening the bands were ordered out to play, and it was late into the night when their
melodious strains ceased to float through the air. It was a night long to be remembered, the
hearts of the black soldiers of the 25th Corps, gladdened by the reports of the victories of
the troops before Petersburg, were jubilant, and with vigilant watch each looked for morning.
They were impatient for the light, and ere it dawned they were ready for the onset which they
believed must come with it. The enemy whom they supposed were preparing to give them battle,
was silently stealing away to the enchanting strains of the Federal musicians. It was near
the morning hours when a sudden report startled the sleeping soldiers; an explosion, another,
and yet another followed in rapid succession.

General Weitzel soon became satisfied that the enemy was moving, the continuous sound of distant
cannonading away to the south, told that the combat still raged. From the signal tower bright
lights were discernable at Richmond. The city appeared to be on fire; a confederate picket
was captured, but he knew nothing; he had got astray from his comrades and command. A deserter
came in with intelligence that the city was being evacuated, and half an hour later a negro
drove into camp and gave information that the enemy was flying.

The ground in front was thickly set with torpedoes, and the troops dared not move. Day came
and Colonel Draper's black brigade of the 25th Corps went forward. The road was lumbered with
all manner and sort of military gear and munitions of war. Keeping clear of the red flags which
marked the torpedoes, the troops pushed on; they soon reached the defences of the city to find
them untenanted; the negro had told the truth and the Phalanx brigade entered the city welcomed
by thousands of happy kinsfolks. Badeau says:

     "The sun was an hour up, when suddenly there rose in the
     streets the cry of 'Yankees! Yankees!' and the mass of
     plunderers and rioters, cursing, screaming, trampling on
     each other, alarmed by an enemy not yet in sight, madly
     strove to extricate themselves and make an opening for the
     troops. Soon about forty men of the Fourth Massachusetts
     Cavalry rode into the crowd, and, trotting straight to the
     public square, planted their guidons on the Capitol.
     Lieutenant De Peyster, of Weitzel's staff, a New Yorker
     eighteen years of age, was the first to raise the national
     colors, and then, in the morning light of the 3d of April,
     the flag of the United States once more floated over
     Richmond.

     "The command of Weitzel followed--a long blue line--with
     gun-barrels gleaming, and bands playing 'Hail Columbia' and
     'John Brown's Soul Goes Marching On.' One regiment was
     black.[33] The magistrates formally surrendered the city to
     Weitzel at the Capitol, which stands on a hill in the centre
     of the town, and overlooks the whole country for miles. The
     national commander at once set about restoring order and
     extinguishing the flames. Guards were established,
     plundering was stopped, the negroes were organized into a
     fire corps, and by night the force of the conflagration was
     subdued, the rioting was at an end, and the conquered city
     was rescued by the efforts of its captors from the evils
     which its own authorities had allowed, and its own
     population had perpetrated."

Lee and his famishing host were fleeing towards Danville, hotly pursued by the Federal Army.
Resting there until the 5th they resumed the march, fighting and running, until, at Appomattox
they gave up and surrendered. Major Alexandria S. Johnson of the 116th Phalanx Regiment thus
relates the story in part which the Phalanx brigade took in the memorable movement of the two
armies to Appomattox. He says:

     "As a participant in these events I will speak merely of
     what came under my own observation. The One Hundred and
     Sixteenth (colored) Infantry, in which I commanded a
     company, belonged to the Third Brigade, Second Division of
     the Twenty-fifth Army Corps, and during the winter of
     1864-65 held the lines on Chapin's farm, the left resting on
     Fort Burnham. The division was commanded by Major-General
     Birney. The winter was passed in endeavoring to get the
     troops in as high a state of discipline as possible by
     constant drill and watchful training. When the spring opened
     we had the satisfaction of feeling that they were the equal,
     as soldiers, of most of the white troops. They were a
     contented body, being well fed and clothed, and they took
     delight in their various duties. The news of the capture of
     Savannah by Sherman and the defeat of Hood at Nashville had
     a cheering effect upon the whole command, and we looked
     forward with confidence that the end was drawing near.

     "On the night of the 26th of March our division silently
     left the lines on Chapin's farm, and marching to the rear
     some three miles went into bivouac. On the night of the 27th
     we crossed the James on muffled pontoons, and after a weary
     march arrived at Hatcher's Run at daybreak of the 28th.
     Crossing the original lines of breastworks we built new
     breastworks some two hundred yards in advance and bivouacked
     in the pine woods awaiting events. Sheridan at this time was
     operating on the Confederate right flank. The news of his
     decisive victory at Five Forks and of the complete turning
     of the enemy's flank was the immediate cause of a verbal
     order, given to company commanders by our colonel on the
     afternoon of April 1st, to advance on the lines in our front
     at dawn on the following day. That night the Union artillery
     opened along the whole line. Hissing and bursting shells
     from Appomattox river to Hatcher's Run filled in a scene
     never to be forgotten by those who witnessed it. It was as
     if demons incarnate were holding a jubilee. As far as the
     eye could reach there was one blaze of fiery shot. The world
     has seldom seen its like. Where our brigade was to operate
     was a dense wilderness of pines with matted underbrush, but
     in the morning it looked as though a sirocco had kissed it.

     "With the dawn of day the brigade was in line of battle. Not
     a breath of air was stirring. A misty vapor shed its gloom
     and hung like a pall among the tree-tops. The silk covers
     were taken from our flags, but their folds hung lazily along
     the staff when the command, 'Forward! guide centre! march!'
     was given. At first slashed timber and brush obstructed our
     way, but as the obstruction began to cease an obstacle in
     the shape of a long line of abattis met our gaze. The dusky
     line broke through the abattis, however, as if the stakes
     had been so many reeds, and charged over the breastworks and
     into the Confederate camp. The rush must have been a
     surprise, as the enemy offered little resistance. In front
     of one of the tents a Federal sergeant (white) lay dead, his
     right arm extended to the full length, and firmly clenched
     in his hand was a piece of fancy soap. A bullet had entered
     his forehead, the blood from the wound was trickling down
     his face, but the hue of health was still on his cheek. How
     he came to be there is to me a mystery, as that part of the
     line was forced by colored troops. Swinging by the right
     flank we kept our way along the Boydton road. A Confederate
     light battery in position alongside of a cottage, which
     stood in a hollow, shelled the column as it advanced, and so
     accurate had the gunners got the range that almost every
     shell did damage. A couple of shells burst together above my
     company. The flash blinded me for a few seconds. I heard a
     scream of pain and just then was ordered to lie down. Not
     twenty yards from me was a wounded soldier. His leg was
     shattered badly. He prayed and sang hymns alternately, but
     his voice gradually grew weaker until it ended in death. One
     of our batteries was brought into position, and engaging the
     Confederate battery, the latter was silenced, when the
     column again resumed the march, arriving in front of
     Petersburg about noon.

     "It was the intention of General Birney to carry by assault
     the main fort which commanded the city, and he deployed the
     division in line of battle for that purpose, but General
     Ord, coming up in time, ordered him to retire his division
     out of range and await further orders. We went into bivouac
     for the night, and at early dawn of the 3d we entered the
     city, the Confederates having evacuated the forts during the
     night. The field music played "John Brown's Body," and a
     tiny Union flag in the hands of a girl of ten years waved us
     a welcome. Resting an hour in the city the division started
     in pursuit of the Confederates. For a mile or two outside of
     the city the road was strewn with plug tobacco. Blood could
     be seen also at intervals in patches along the road. We
     bivouacked some fifteen miles from the city. A few of our
     officers took supper in a house close to our camping ground.
     Our fare was "corn pone," scraps of bacon, sorghum molasses,
     and a solution of something called coffee, for which we each
     gave our host, a middle-aged Virginian, one dollar. The
     colored troops being encamped on his farm his indignation
     was stirred and he exclaimed, while the tears trickled down
     his cheeks, 'Poor old Virginia! poor old Virginia! that I
     should have lived to see this day!'

     "At dawn of the 4th the column resumed the pursuit. It is
     needless for me to tell in detail how our cavalry destroyed
     and burned over five hundred Confederate wagons on the 5th
     and 6th, and how Ewell's command was defeated and captured
     at Sailor's creek on the 6th. Our brigade having arrived at
     Farmville on the afternoon of the 6th and encamped for the
     night, some of the citizens poured forth pitiful tales to
     our officers. They told how our cavalry had entered their
     houses and ripped open their feather beds, how the rude
     troopers had broken open bureaus and chests in search of
     valuables, and how they had carried away with them what they
     could find. Nothing of interest took place until the 8th,
     which was noted for the forced march made by the brigade,
     starting at daybreak and going into bivouac at twelve
     midnight. The morning of the 9th broke calm and serene. It
     was a lovely morning, the sun had not yet gotten above the
     horizon when the brigade was on the march again, but it went
     only a short distance when it was halted. To the right of
     the road, in a clearing, was a portion of the Twenty-fourth
     Corps, with arms stacked and the men cooking breakfast.
     Sides of bacon at intervals hung from their bayonets.
     Although the woods were full of our cavalry and three
     divisions of our infantry were in close proximity, all was
     as quiet as a Sabbath morning. One of our batteries, some
     six hundred yards to the right, broke the stillness by
     fitfully throwing a shell once in a while, but to a
     looker-on all seemed inaction. Such was the situation at
     Appomattox at sunrise on the morning of the 9th.

     "Our brigade, after resting some thirty minutes, resumed the
     march. It soon filed to the right. In a few minutes the
     command was given--'Right shoulder, shift arms! double
     quick, march!' Onward we went, the objective point being the
     Lynchburg pike. Dismounted cavalry retreating from the front
     broke through the column, saying as they passed us, 'Give it
     to them, boys! they are too many for us!' In a few minutes
     the head of the column reached the pike, when it halted and
     faced to the front. The command--'Unsling knapsacks!'--was
     given, and then we knew we were stripping for a fight.
     Skirmishers were deployed on our front, and as we advanced
     the Confederate skirmishers retired before us. After
     advancing some eight hundred yards the brigade was ordered
     to halt and form in line of battle. It formed into column of
     companies. Some eight hundred yards away was the Army of
     Northern Virginia, with its three lines of battle awaiting
     us.

     "We had not been at a halt more than twenty minutes when the
     news of Lee's surrender reached us. Our brigade celebrated
     the event by firing volleys of musketry in the air. Officers
     hugged each other with joy. About four hundred yards to the
     rear was a portion of the Twenty-fourth Corps, which had
     been marching to our support. The men in that long line
     threw their caps upwards until they looked like a flock of
     crows. From wood and dale came the sound of cheers from
     thousands of throats. Appomattox will never hear the like
     again. The brigade moved forward a short distance and went
     into camp some three hundred yards from the Confederate
     camp. In the afternoon I strolled over the ground we had
     traversed in the morning. I came across the body of a dead
     Confederate soldier, covered with a blanket. Some one had
     taken the shoes from his feet. Uncovering him I found that a
     shot had pierced his right breast. His white cotton shirt
     was matted with blood. A small bag was attached to the
     button-hole of his jacket. Undoing the bag I found it
     contained sixty ounces of corn meal. He was not over
     twenty-six years of age, and was of fair complexion. Who
     knows but he was the last soldier who fell belonging to the
     Army of Northern Virginia?"

It was Palm Sunday, celebrated by many of the followers of Christ as the day of his triumphal
entrance into Jerusalem, a day of great rejoicing among Christians, known in our annual calendar
as the 9th day of April, 1865. The morning broke clear and bright in the neighborhood of Appomattox
Court House, and there was every evidence of spring. The birds chirped in the trees half clad
with the early foliage, which trembled in the soft breeze. Along the roadside yet untrod by
the hostile feet of man or steed, the tiny floweret buds had begun to open to the warmth of
genial nature, and the larger roses, red and white, cast their fragrance to the lingering winds.
Here the half clad, sore footed soldiers of the Army of Northern Virginia, were trembling with
dread impatience for the onset,--the inevitable--which would decide their fate and their prospect
of reaching the mountains just beyond. In front of them the federal cavalry awaited their coming.

It was yet grey in the morning when General Lee sent word to his Lieutenant Gordon to cut his
"way through at all hazards." With the impetuosity of a cyclone, his shattered corps rushed
upon the dismounted cavalry in their front, the Federal line quivered, and bent to the gale.
On and on they came, pressing closer and closer upon the cavalry. The struggle was becoming
desperate, it was the last hope of the confederates they must go through the lines, or perish
in the attempt. Again the confederate yell rose above the din of the battle's roar, and soon
the cavalry fell back. Where was their leader Sheridan? He came, galloping at break-neck speed,
his men cheering him as he rode to the front. He had been to the rear some five miles away.
He saw at a glance the daring object of the foe, and ordered his men to fall back slowly. The
confederates followed up the wavering line with brightened hopes, but hopes that were to be
dissipated; soon the bristling bayonets, and glistening musket barrels of the Army of the James
gleamed in their front; then the pressure ceased, and Sheridan's bugle sounded the order to
mount, and his troopers dashed themselves against the enemy's left flank. Then, one bearing
a white flag--a flag of truce, rode to the front of the confederate lines. Capt. J. D. Cook
of General Mile's staff went forward to meet him. It was Colonel Taylor of General Lee's staff;
he bore a note from Lee, asking a suspension of hostilities, and an interview with General
Grant. Now let us go back to the night of the 6th, and trace the flying columns to this point.
Badeau says:

     "That night once more the rebels evacuated their works, this
     time in front of Meade, and when morning dawned were far on
     their way, as they fondly thought, to Lynchburg, and Lee
     defiantly informed his pursuer that the emergency for the
     surrender had not yet arrived. But he reckoned without his
     host. He was stretching, with the terrific haste that
     precedes despair, to Appomattox for supplies. He need hardly
     have hastened to that spot, destined to be so fatal to
     himself and his cause. Grant's legions were making more
     haste than he. The marvelous marching, not only of Sheridan,
     but of the men of the Fifth and Twenty-Fourth Corps, was
     doing as much as a battle to bring the rebellion to a close.
     Twenty-eight, thirty-two, thirty-five miles a day in
     succession these infantry soldiers marched, all day and all
     night. From daylight until daylight again, after more than a
     week of labor and fatigue almost unexampled, they pushed on
     to intercept their ancient adversary, while the remainder of
     the Army of the Potomac was at his heels.

     "Finally Lee, still defiant, and refusing to treat with any
     view of surrender, came up to his goal, but found the
     national cavalry had reached the point before him, and that
     the supplies were gone. Still he determined to push his way
     through, and with no suspicion that men on foot could have
     marched from Rice's Station to his front in thirty hours, he
     made his last charge, and discovered a force of infantry
     greater than his own before him, besides cavalry, while two
     corps of the Army of the Potomac were close in his rear. He
     had run straight into the national lines. He was enclosed,
     walled in, on every side, with imminent instant destruction
     impending over him. He instantly offered to submit to Grant,
     and in the agony of alarm, lest the blow should fall, he
     applied to Meade and Sheridan also for a cessation of
     hostilities. Thus in three directions at once he was
     appealing to be allowed to yield. At the same moment he had
     messengers out to Sheridan, Meade, and Grant. The emergency,
     whose existence he had denied, had arrived. He was
     out-marched, out-fought, out-witted, out-generaled--defeated
     in every possible way. He and his army, every man, numbering
     27,516, surrendered. He and his army, every man, was fed by
     the conqueror."

From the date of Lee's surrender, the confederates, from Virginia to the Mississippi, began
to lay down their arms. Howell Cobb surrendered at Macon, Ga., on the 21st; Johnston surrendered
to General Sherman on the 26th, in North Carolina; Dick Taylor, east of the Mississippi, on
the 4th of May, and on the 26th Kirby Smith surrendered his forces west of the Mississippi.
Jeff. Davis had been captured, disguised as a woman, and thus the cause, which originated in
treason, based on the enslavement of a race, and which derived its only chance of success from
men who were false to their oaths, collapsed. The mightiest blow given the confederacy was
struck by the immortal Proclamation of Emancipation, giving freedom to four millions of slaves;
more than two hundred thousand of whom, with dash and gallantry excelled by no other race,
tore down the traitor's banner from their deemed impregnable breastworks and planted in its
stead the national flag. That emblem, whose crimson folds, re-baptised in the blood of liberty's
martyrs, invited all men, of all races, who would be free, to gather beneath the effulgent
glare of its heaven-lighted stars, regardless of color, creed or condition. The Phalanx nobly
bore their part all through the long night of war, and at last they occupied Charleston,--the
traitors' nest,--Petersburg,--their eastern Gibraltar,--and Richmond--their Capitol. They marched
proudly through the streets of these once impregnable fortresses, in all of which many of the
soldiers of the Phalanx had been slaves. Oh! what a realization of the power of right over
might. What a picture for the historian's immortal pen to paint of the freemen of America,
whose sufferings were long, whose struggle was gigantic, and whose achievement was a glorious
personal and political freedom!

At the close of the war, the government, anticipating trouble in Texas, ordered General Steele
to the command of the Rio Grande, under these instructions:

                               "WASHINGTON, May 21st, 1865.

     "MAJ. GEN. F. STEELE, Commanding Rio Grande Expedition.

     "By assignment of the President, Gen. Sheridan takes general
     command west of the Arkansas. It is the intention to
     prosecute a vigorous campaign in that country, until the
     whole of Texas is re-occupied by people acknowledging
     allegiance to the Government of the United States. Sheridan
     will probably act offensively from the Red river. But it is
     highly important that we should have a strong foothold upon
     the Rio Grande. You have been selected to take that part of
     the command. In addition to the force you take from Mobile
     Bay, you will have the 25th Corps and the few troops already
     in Southern Texas.

     "Any directions you may receive from Gen. Sheridan, you will
     obey. But in the absence of instructions from him you will
     proceed without delay to the mouth of the Rio Grande and
     occupy as high up that river as your force and means of
     supplying will admit of.

     "Your landing will probably have to be made at Brazos, but
     you will learn more fully upon that matter on your arrival.
     We will have to observe a strict neutrality towards Mexico,
     in the French and English sense of the word. Your own good
     sense and knowledge of international law, and experience of
     policy pursued towards us in this war teaches you what will
     be proper.

                    "Signed, U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant-General.

         "Official: Signed, GEO. K. LEET, A. A. G."

In the meantime General Grant sent the following dispatches to Generals Halleck and Weitzel:

                      "WASHINGTON, May 18th, 1865, 12.40 P. M.,

     "MAJOR-GENERAL H. W. HALLECK, Richmond Va.

     "Please direct Major-General Weitzel commanding 25th Army
     Corps to get his corps in readiness for embarkation at City
     Point immediately upon the arrival of ocean transportation.
     He will take with him forty (40) days rations for twenty
     thousand men, one-half of his land transportation and
     one-fourth of his mules with the requisite amount of forage
     for his animals. All surplus transportation and other public
     property he may have he will turn over to the depots at City
     Point.

     "By command of Lieutenant-General Grant.

                                "Signed, JOHN A. RAWLINS,

                     "Brigadier-General and Chief of Staff.

         "Official. Signed, GEORGE K. LEET, A. A. G."

       *       *       *       *       *

                          "WASHINGTON, May 21st, 1865.

     "MAJOR-GENERAL G. WEITZEL, Commanding 25th A. C.

     "As soon as your corps is embarked you will proceed with it
     to Mobile Bay, Ala., and report to Major-General Steele for
     further orders.

     "In addition to rations, ammunition, and other articles
     which you have received directions to take with you, you
     should take a fair quantity of intrenching tools.

                  "Signed, U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant-General.

     "Official, Signed, GEORGE K. LEET, A. A. G."

On the 24th of May the 25th Corps began embarking for Texas by way of Mobile Bay. The troops,
however, occupied Texas but a short time, the confederate forces there surrendering upon the
same terms as those of General Lee. All fears having been dissipated, the troops were slowly
mustered out of the United States service. The men returned to their wonted fields of labor
to provide for their long-neglected families, upon a new career of peace and happiness, rising,
Phoenix like, from the ashes of slavery to join the Phalanx of industry in upbuilding the greatness
of their country, which they had aided in saving from desolation and ruin.

Such is the history of the negro in the wars of the United States. Coming to its shores in
the condition of slavery, it required more than two centuries for the entire race to reach
the estate of freedom. But the imperishable records of their deeds show that however humble
and despised they have been in all political and social relations they have never been wanting
in patriotism at periods of public peril. Their devotion has been not only unappreciated, but
it has failed to receive a fitting commemoration in pages of national history. It has been
the purpose of the writer of this volume to relate herein the patriotic career of the negro
race in this country in an authentic and connected form. In the time to come the race will
take care of itself. Slavery is ended, and now they are striking off link by link the chains
of ignorance which the servitude of some and the humility of all imposed upon them. If the
past is the story of an oppressed race, the future will reveal that of one uprisen to great
opportunities, which they will improve from generation to generation, and guard with the same
vigilance that they will the liberties and boundaries of the land.

FOOTNOTES:

[31] The reader will bear in mind that there were several changes in the command of these troops
during the campaign, on account of promotions, but the troops remained in the Department and
Army of the James. See Roster, for changes.

[32] THE PHALANX AT NEW MARKET HEIGHTS.[A]

"On the 29th of September, 1864, Gen. Grant ordered Gen. Butler to cross the James River, at
Two Points, and attack the enemy's line of work, in the centre of which was Fort Harrison;
on the left, at New Market Heights, was a very strong work, the key of the enemy's flank on
the north side of the river. It was a redoubt built on the top of a hill of some considerable
elevation, then running down into a marsh. In that marsh was a brook--then rising again to
a plain, which gently rolled toward the river. On that plain, when the flash of dawn was breaking,
Butler placed a column of the black Phalanx," [which consisted of the 5th, 36th, 38th and 2nd
Cavalry Regts.], "numbering three thousand, in close column, by division, right in front with
guns at 'right shoulder shift.' The center of the line was given to the eighteenth corps composed
of white troops, under Gen. Ord, and they drove the enemy from a very strong work, capturing
several pieces of cannon.

"Gen. Butler had been severely criticised by officers of the regular army for organizing twenty-five
regiments of negroes. 'Why.' said they, 'they will not fight' In contradiction of this assertion
Butler made up his mind to prove the worth and value of the black Phalanx. Notwithstanding
their gallantry at Petersburg and on the Fredericksburg road, the metal of the 25th corps of
the Army of the James was to be tried; so Butler took command of the Phalanx himself with a
determination to set at rest forever the question of the fighting capacity of a portion of
his command. Addressing the Phalanx, he said, pointing to the works on the enemy's flank, 'those
works must be taken by the weight of your column; not a shot must be fired. In order to prevent
them from firing he had the caps taken from the nipples of their guns. 'When you charge.' he
said, 'your cry will be 'Remember Fort Pillow.'

"'Twas in the early grey of the morning, ere the sun had risen. The order 'forward' set the
column in motion, and it went forward as if on parade--down the hill, across the marsh, and
as the column got into the brook they came within range of the enemy's fire, which was vigorously
opened upon them. The column broke a little, as it forded the brook, it wavered! What a moment
of intense anxiety? But they formed again, as they reached the firm ground, marching on steadily
with close ranks under the enemy's fire until the head of the column reached the first line
of abatis, some one hundred and fifty yards from the enemy's work. Then the axemen ran to the
front to cut away the heavy obstacles of defense while one thousand men of the enemy with their
artillery concentrated poured from the redoubt a heavy fire upon the head of the column of
fours. The axemen went down under that murderous fire; other strong black hands grasped the
axes in their stead and the abatis was cut away. Again, at double-quick, the column went forward
to within fifty yards of the fort, to meet there another line of abatis. The column halted
and there a very fire of hell was poured upon them. The abatis resisted and held the head of
the column which literally melted away under the rain of shot and shell; the flags of the leading
regiments went down, but a brave black hand seized the colors. They were soon up again and
waved their starry light over the storm of battle. Again the axemen fell, but strong hands
and willing hearts seized the heavy sharpened trees and dragged them away, and the column rushed
forward and with a shout that rang out above the roar of artillery went over the redoubt like
a flash, and the enemy did not stop running within four miles, leaving the Phalanx in possession
of their deemed impregnable work, cannons and small arms. The autocrats of the regular army
could croak no longer about the negro soldiers not fighting.

"This gallantry of the Phalanx won for them and the negro race the admiration of the man who
supported Jeff Davis and the slave power in the Charleston convention in 1860. Ten years after
this splendid victory of the Phalanx, in support of their civil rights, General Butler then
a member of congress, made an eloquent appeal in behalf of the equal civil rights of the negro
race. In it he referred to the gallant charge of the Phalanx. He said: "It became my painful
duty to follow in the track of that charging column, and there, in a space not wider than the
clerk's desk and three hundred yards long, lay the dead bodies of five hundred and forty-three
of my colored comrades, fallen in defense of their country, who had offered up their lives
to uphold its flag and its honor, as a willing sacrifice: and as I rode along among them, guiding
my horse this way and that way, lest he should profane with his hoofs what seemed to me the
sacred dead, and as I looked on their bronzed faces upturned in the shining sun, as if in mute
appeal against the wrongs of the country for which they had given their lives, whose flag had
only been to them a flag of stripes, on which no star of glory had ever shone for them--feeling
I had wronged them in the past and believing what was the future of my country to them--among
my dead comrades there, I swore to myself a solemn oath--'May my right hand forget its cunning
and my tongue cleave to the roof my mouth, if I ever fail to defend the rights of those men
who have given their blood for me and my country that day and for their race forever, and God
helping me, I will keep that oath."

       *       *       *       *       *

"NEW MARKET HEIGHTS.[B]

    "'Freedom their battle cry, freedom or leave to die.'--Boker.

    At New Market Heights, there Afric's lineage stood,
    And poured out copiously its best blood;
    Of them I would sing, my lyre's restrung,
    And allures not diffidently to the song,
    Paternal muse with thy patriot valor reign
    Supreme, and the brightness of ages regain,
    In the deep recess of the past
    Lower me, to where the battle's blast
    Has been given to oblivion, the sigh
    Of dying patriots let greet me nigh.
    And my thoughts waft on memory's wing,
    To where their charging shouts yet ring.

    If mine the task indulgent muse vouchsafed,
    Whilst I commune 'mongst bones that paved,
    And flesh that bridged the chasm o'er,
    Where Butler numbered five hundred and more
    of Afric's sons, who for liberty fell.
    In the corridors of a stockaded hell.
    I'll essay their deeds of valor done,
    By which the nation its victory won.

    'Twas early in the grey September morn,
    Ere the suns fulgent light had shown,
    Whilst departed patriots looked out from above,
    Emitting their twinkling silvery light of love,
    Upon the silent bivouac of freedom's sons,
    Weary and resting upon their bayonetless guns;
    Quite near the bank of the James,
    Just above where their own fathers' names,
    Were first enrolled as ignoble slaves.
    The Second Brigade, valiant men and braves,
    Saw a meteor like rocket burst high,
    High up in the dewey morning sky.
    Then came the summons prepare to away,
    Butler leads to New Market heights at day.
    Beat the long roll, sound the alarm,
    Break the monotone and the dead calm,
    And the bugle's clarion notes aroused, awoke,
    The host that waited ere day broke;
    Infantry, cavalry prepared to make away,
    Butler leads to New Market heights at day.

    From rank to rank the summons ran,
    Bayonets rattle and clank of sabres began.
    With whetted steel the sturdy axe-men,
    Capless riflemen, horseless cavalry men.
    Formed on that plain in battle array,
    Butler leads to New Market heights at day.

    When the flash of dawn was breaking,
    Their leader rode in front, and speaking,
    Gave the charging shout 'Remember Fort Pillow,'
    And their banners brightened in the mellow
    Light of heaven; 'Forward,' they marched away,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.
    Went down the hill across the marsh,--
    Into the brook--there halted--ah! how harsh
    The rebels' fire opened upon them, artillery
    Hail swept the run, and the infantry
    Broke, the column wavered tho' not in dismay,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    Again the shattered columns form and again advance
    To firmer ground, tho' the redoubt hurl'd like an avalanche
    In quick succession, bursting bombs and canister shot,
    But with closed ranks the column, fearing not
    Unheedful of the iron hail bent its way,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    Now the head of the column of fours go down
    Under the murderous fire and the hissing song
    Of the enemy's shells, now the axe men spring
    To the abatis high and long, now their axes ring
    Out on the morning air, they were swept away.
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    The flags are where, do they kiss the morning light,
    Do they wave in the battle's gale, are their stars bright,
    Illumining the path of the brave? riddled and torn,
    With the dead they lay. Soon again they shone,
    In the first gleam of the rising-sun's ray,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    Upon the brigade each felt that all was placed,
    Their race and country's future honored or disgraced,
    Hence with Spartan courage they the charge renewed,
    And in hot haste the Nation's enemy pursued,
    And sweat and blood from pore and wound inveigh,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    'Forward, forward!' rung the command, the flags are up again,
    The axe-men grin, and with a shout go over the slain,
    To a second line of abatis. The welkin's aglow.
    The advancing brigade shouts, 'Remember Fort Pillow!'
    And with a will and spirit they clear the way,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    Down the dismounted cavalrymen fall by ranks,
    The Infantry an adamantine wall on the flanks,
    Close up briskly on right and left receive
    The enflading fire from the brazen crest, breathe
    They not a word in complaint, freedom's impulse obey,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    Mow the black axe-men tear from the sod the huge logs
    Which science and treason placed deep in the bogs,
    Skill gave way to freedom's might in the dastardly fight,
    And the black brigade, with capless rifles and starry light,
    Go through the gap to the Rebel's hell in gallant array,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    Volley after volley poured, cannon after cannon roared,
    Like reapers in a field a thousand artillerists mowed
    In the gap, the brigade's advancing files of four,
    Yet on through the flood of death still the brigade pour.
    Their battle cry, Remember Fort Pillow, the enemy dismay,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    Hark! above the raging carnage swells the shout,
    'No quarter to Niggers,' with hope of a rout,
    But the brigade was not deterred, they retaliate
    The defiant yells, Remember Fort Pillow, the fate
    Of its garrison how it fell, on through the fray,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    On for the redoubt over the rampart they go,
    Not a rifle was fired, not a shot at the foe,
    By the weight of the column the redoubt is theirs,
    And the enemy routed, the chivalry scattered everywhere
    Victorious shouts the empyrean ring in repay,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    In the track of the brigade lay the loyal dead,
    Afric's hecatomb, her lineage's pyre to liberty wed,
    Their upturned countenances to the burning sun,
    Were appeals to Mars for their race's freedom won,
    Five hundred lives on the patriotic alter lay,
    Following Butler to New Market heights that day.

    No marble shaft or granate pile mark the spot
    Where they fell--their bones lay harvested from sun-rot,
    In the Nation's cities of the dead. Hannibal led
    No braver than they through Alpine snow, nor wed
    To freedom were Greece's phalanx more, who o'er gory clay
    Followed Butler to New Market heights that day.

[A] (Author in the N. Y. Globe.)

[B] (Author in "Voice of a New Race.")

[33] See report of 29th Regiment Connecticut Colored Volunteers in appendix.

CHAPTER XII.

ROLL OF HONOR.

The following enlisted men of the Black Phalanx received medals of honor from the United States
Government for heroic conduct on the field of battle:

    Sergeant-Major C. A. FLEETWOOD, 4th Regiment.

    Color-Sergeant ALFRED B. HILTON, 4th Regiment.

    Private CHARLES VEAL, 4th Regiment.

    1st Sergeant JAMES BROWNSON, 5th Regiment.

    Sergeant-Major MILTON M. HOLLAND, 5th Regiment.

    1st Sergeant, ROBERT PINN, 5th Regiment.

    1st Sergeant POWHATAN BEATY, 5th Regiment.

    1st Sergeant ALEX. KELLEY, 6th Regiment.

    Sergeant SAMUEL GILCHRIST, 36th Regiment.

    Sergeant WILLIAM DAVIS, 36th Regiment.

    Corporal MILES JAMES, 36th Regiment.

    Private JAMES GARDNER, 36th Regiment.

    1st Sergeant EDWARD RATCLIFF, 38th Regiment.

    Private WILLIAM BARNES, 38th Regiment.

CHAPTER XIII.

ROSTER OF THE BLACK PHALANX

CAVALRY.

1st Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Seip.--Organized at Camp Hamilton, Va., December, 1863. Battles:
Bermuda Hundreds, Smithfield, Wilson's Landing, Fort Pocahontas, Cabin Point, Powhatan. Mustered
out February, 1866.

2nd Regiment, Colonel G. W. Cole.--Organized at Ft. Monroe, December, 1863. Battles: Suffolk,
Drewry's Bluff, May 10, 16th and 20th, 1864. Point of Rocks, Deep Bottom, Chapin Farm, Richmond.
Mustered out February, 1866.

3d Regiment, Lieutenant Colonel J. B. Cook.--Organized at Vicksburg, October 9th, 1863. Battles:
Haines Bluff, Shipwith's Landing, Miss., Memphis, Tenn., Bayou Boeuf, Yazoo Expedition, Rolling
Fork, Vicksburg, Jackson, Fort Adams, Franklin, Roache's Plantation, Yazoo City. Mustered out
January, 1866.

4th Regiment, (1st Corps d'Afrique), Lieutenant-Colonel N. C. Mitchell.--Organized September,
1863, at New Orleans, La. Battle: Clinton. Mustered out March, 1866.

5th Regiment, Colonel L. Henry Carpenter.--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky., October, 1864. Battles:
Saltville, Hopkinsville, Harrodsburg, Simpsonville. Mustered out March, 1866.

5th Regiment, Massachusetts, Colonel S. E. Chamberlin.--Organized at Readville, Mass., May,
1864. Battle: Petersburg. Mustered out October, 1865.

6th Regiment, Colonel James F. Wade.--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky., Nov., 1864. Battles: Saltville,
Marion, Smithfield. Mustered out April, 1866.

HEAVY ARTILLERY.

1st Regiment, Colonel John E. McGowan.--Organized at Knoxville, Tenn., February, 1864. Battle:
Decatur.

3rd Regiment, Colonel Ignatz G. Kappner.--Organized at Memphis, Tenn., and Fort Pickering,
Tenn., June, 1863, as 1st Regiment Tennessee Heavy Artillery. Its designation was changed to
2nd Regiment and to 3rd, April, 1864. Mustered out April, 1864.

4th Regiment, Major Wm. N. Lansing.--Organized at Columbus, Ky., June, 1863, as 2nd Regiment
Tennessee. Its designation was changed March, 1864, to the 3rd Regiment, and to the 4th, April,
1864. Battles: Fort Donelson. Mustered out February, 1866.

5th Regiment, Colonel Herman Leib.--Organized at Vicksburg, Miss., August, 1863, as the 9th
Regiment Louisiana Volunteers. Its designation was changed to 1st Regiment, Mississippi, September,
1863, and to the 4th, March, 1864. Battles: Milliken's Bend, June 6th, 7th and 25th, 1863,
Vicksburg. Mustered out May, 1866.

6th Regiment, Colonel Hubert A. McCaleb.--Organized at Natchez, Miss., September, 1863, as
2nd Regiment, Miss. Its designation was changed to the 5th Regiment, March, 1864, and to the
6th, April, 1864. Battles: Vidalia, Concordia Bayou, Black River. Mustered out May, 1866.

For 7th Regiment see 11th Infantry.

8th Regiment, Colonel Henry W. Barry.--Organized at Paducah, Ky., April, 1864. Battle: Fort
Anderson. Mustered out February, 1866.

9th Regiment, Major Edward Grosskoff.--Organized at Clarksville, Nashville, Tenn., October,
1864; broken up May, 1865; officers and enlisted men transferred to other organizations.

10th Regiment, Colonel C. A. Hartwell, (regular army).--Organized at New Orleans, La., November,
1862, as 1st Regiment Louisiana. Its designation was changed to 1st Regiment Corps d'Afrique,
November, 1863, and to the 7th Regiment United States, April, 1864; to the 10th, May, 1864.
The 77th Regiment Infantry was consolidated with it October, 1865. Mustered out February, 1867.
Battle: Pass-Manchæ.

11th Regiment, Colonel J. Hale Sypher.--Organized at Providence, R. I., August, 1863, as the
14th Regiment, R. I. Its designation was changed to the 8th Regiment United States, April,
1864, and to the 11th, May, 1864. Battle: Indian Village. Mustered out October, 1865.

12th Regiment, Colonel Norman S. Andrews.--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky., July, 1864. Battles:
Big Springs, Fort Jones. Mustered out, April, 1866.

13th Regiment, Colonel Jacob T. Foster.--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky., June, 1865. Mustered
out November, 1865.

14th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Walter S. Poor.--Organized at New Berne and Marblehead, N.
C., March, 1864, as the 1st North Carolina. Its designation was changed to the 14th, March,
1865. Mustered out December, 1865.

LIGHT ARTILLERY.

2nd Regiment.--Organized at Nashville, Tenn., April, 1864. Mustered out January, 1866.

Battery A, Captain F. P. Meigs.

Battery B, Captain Francis C. Choate.--Organized at Fort Monroe. Va. January, 1864. Battles:
Wilson's Wharf, City Point. Mustered out March, 1866.

Battery C, Captain Robert Ranney.--Organized at Hebron's Plantation, Miss., November, 1863,
as the 1st Louisiana Battery. Its designation was changed to Battery A, 2d Regiment, March,
1864, and to Battery C April, 1864. Mustered out December, 1865.

Battery D, Captain W. H. Pratt.--Organized at Black River Bridge, Miss., December, 1863, as
the 2d Louisiana Battery. Its designation was changed to Battery B, 2d Regiment United States,
March, 1864, and to Battery D April, 1864. Battles: Island No. 76, Big Creek.

Battery F, Captain Carl A. Lamberg.--Organized at Memphis, Tenn., as the Memphis Light Battery,
November, 1863. Its designation was changed to Battery D, 2d United States Regiment, March,
1864, and to Battery F, April, 1864. Consolidated with the 3d United States Heavy Artillery,
December, 1865. Battles: Fort Pillow, Brice's Cross Roads. Mustered out April, 1866.

Battery G, Captain Jeremiah S. Clark.--Organized at Hilton Head, S. C., May, 1864. Mustered
out August, 1865.

Battery H, Captain John Driscoll.--Organized at Pine Bluff, Ark., June, 1864, as the 1st Arkansas
Colored Battery. Changed to Battery H, 2d United States, December, 1864. Mustered out September,
1865.

Battery I, Captain Louis B. Smith.--Organized at Memphis, Tenn., April, 1864. Mustered out
January, 1866.

Independent Battery, Captain H. Ford Douglass. Organized at Leavenworth, Kan., December, 1864.
Mustered out July, 1865.

INFANTRY.

1st Regiment,[34] Colonel John H. Holman.--Organized at District of Columbia, May, 1863. Battles:
Wilson's Wharf, Petersburg, Chapin's Farm, Fair Oaks, Fillmore, Town Creek, Wilmington, Warsaw.
Mustered out, September 1865.

2d Regiment, Colonel B. F. Townsend.---Organized at Arlington, Va., June, 1863. Battles: Fort
Taylor, Cedar Keys, Natural Bridge. Mustered out January, 1866.

3d Regiment, Colonel F. W. Bardwell.--Organized at Philadelphia, Penn., August, 1863. Battles:
Fort Wagner, Bryant's Plantation, Marion County, Jacksonville. Mustered out October, 1865.

4th Regiment, Colonel S. A. Duncan.--Organized at Baltimore, Md., July, 1863. Battles: Bermuda
Hundreds, Petersburg, Dutch Gap, Chapin's Farm, Sugar-Loaf Hill. Mustered out May, 1866.

5th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel John B. Cook. Organized at Camp Delaware, Ohio, August, 1863.
Battles: Sandy Swamp, New Kent Court House, City Point, Petersburg, Chapin's Farm, Fair Oaks,
Raleigh. Mustered out, September 1865.

6th Regiment, Colonel John W. Ames, (regular army).--Organized at Camp William Penn, Pa., 1863.
Battles: Williamsburg, Chapin's. Farm, Sugar-Loaf Hill, January 19th, February 11th, 1865.
Mustered out September, 1865.

6th Regiment, Louisiana, Colonel Robert Des Anges.--Organized at New Orleans, La., July, 1863--sixty
days. Mustered out August, 1863.

7th Regiment, Colonel James Shaw, Jr.--Organized at Baltimore, Md., September, 1863. Battles:
Deep Bottom, Johns Island, James Island, Darbytown Road, Jacksonville, May 1st, 28th, 1864,
Bermuda Hundreds, Chapin's Farm, Fort Burnham, Petersburg, Richmond. Mustered out October, 1866.

7th Regiment, Louisiana, Colonel M. Wilson Phanley.--Organized at New Orleans, La.--sixty days.
Mustered out August, 1863.

8th Regiment, Colonel Charles W. Fribley.--Organized at Camp William Penn., Pa., September,
1863. Battles: Olustee, Chapin's Farm, Darbytown Road. Mustered out November, 1865.

9th Regiment, Colonel Thomas Bayley.--Organized at Camp Staunton, Md., November, 1863. Battles:
Deep Bottom, Chapin's Farm, Darbytown Road, Fair Oaks. Mustered out November, 1866.

10th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel E. H. Powell.--Organized in Virginia, November, 1863. Battles:
Wilson's Wharf, Plymouth, November 26th, 1863, April 18th, 1864, Petersburg. Mustered out May,
1866.

11th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel James M. Steele.--Organized (five companies) at Fort Smith,
Ark., December, 1863. Battles: Fort Smith, Boggs Mills. Mustered out May, 1866.

11th Regiment consolidated with the 112th and 113th, old regiments, April, 1865, and designated
the 113th. Mustered out May, 1866.

11th Regiment, Colonel William D. Turner.--Organized at La Grange, Lafayette, Memphis, Tenn.,
Corinth, Miss, June, 1863, as the 1st Regiment Alabama Siege Artillery, changed to 6th Regiment
United States Heavy Artillery March, 1864, to 7th Regiment April, 1864, and to 11th Regiment
January, 1865. Battles: Fort Pillow, Holly Springs. Mustered out January, 1866.

12th Regiment, Colonel Charles R. Thompson.--Organized in the State of Tennessee July, 1863.
Battles: Nashville, Section 37, N. & N. W. R. R., Murfreesboro. Mustered out January, 1866.

13th Regiment, Colonel John A. Hollenstein.--Organized at Nashville, Tenn., November, 1863.
Battles: Johnsonville, Nashville. Mustered out January, 1866.

14th Regiment, Colonel Henry C. Corbin.--Organized at Gallatin, Tenn., November, 1863. Battles:
Dalton, Decatur, Nashville. Mustered out March, 1866.

15th Regiment, Colonel William Inness.--Organized at Nashville, Tenn., December, 1863. Battles:
Nashville, Magnolia. Mustered out April, 1866.

16th Regiment, Colonel William B. Gaw. Organized at Nashville, Tenn., December, 1863. Battles:
Chattanooga. Mustered out April, 1866.

17th Regiment, Colonel William R. Shafter.--Organized at Nashville, Tenn., December, 1863.
Battles: Nashville, Decatur, Brawley Fork. Mustered out April, 1866.

18th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel J. J. Sears.--Organized in the State of Missouri February,
1864. Battles: Nashville, December 7th, 15th, and 16th, 1864, Sand Mountain. Mustered out February,
1866.

19th Regiment, Colonel Joseph G. Perkins.--Organized at Camp Staunton, Md., December, 1863.
Battles: Petersburg, Bermuda Hundreds, November 30th, December 4th, 1864. Mustered out January,
1867.

20th Regiment, Colonel Nelson B. Bertram.--Organized at Piker's Island, N. Y., February, 1864.
Mustered out October, 1865.

21st Regiment, Colonel Augustus G. Bennett. Organized at Hilton Head, S. C., Fernandina, Fla.,
June, 1863, as the 3d and 4th South Carolina. Consolidated March, 1864, and designated as the
21st U. S. Regiment. Mustered out April, 1866.

22d Regiment, Colonel Joseph B. Kiddoo. Organized at Philadelphia, Pa., January, 1864. Battles:
Petersburg, New Market Heights, Dutch Gap, Chapin's Farm, September 29th, November 4th, 1864,
Fair Oaks. Mustered out 1865.

23d Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Marshall L. Dempey. Organized at Camp Casey, Va., November,
1863. Battles: Petersburg, Bermuda Hundreds. Mustered out November, 1865.

24th Regiment, Colonel Orlando Brown.--Organized at Camp William Penn, Pa., January, 1865--one
year. Company F mustered out September, 1865; remaining companies October, 1865.

25th Regiment, Colonel F. L. Hitchcock.--Organized at Philadelphia, Pa., January, 1864. Mustered
out December, 1865.

26th Regiment, Colonel William B. Guernsey.--Organized at Piker's Island, N. Y., February,
1864. Battles: John's Island, July 5th and 7th, McKay's Point, Gregory's Farm.

27th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel John W. Dounellon.--Organized at Camp Delaware, Ohio, January,
1864. Battles: Petersburg, Hatcher's Run. Mustered out November, 1865.

28th Regiment, Colonel Charles S Russell, (regular army).--Organized at Indianapolis, Ind.,
December, 1863. Battles: Jones Bridge, Petersburg. Mustered out November, 1865.

29th Regiment, Colonel Clark E. Royce. Organized at Quincy, Ill., in the field, Virginia, April,
October, 1864--one and three years. Battles: Petersburg, White Oak Road. Mustered out November,
1865.

29th Regiment, Connecticut, Lieutenant-Colonel David Torrence.--Organized at New Haven, Conn.,
March, 1864. Battles: Petersburg, Chapin's Farm, Darbytown Road, Fair Oaks, Mustered out October,
1865.

30th Regiment, Colonel Delevan Bates.--Organized at Camp Stanton, Md., February, 1864. Battles:
Petersburg, Sugar Loaf Hill, Cox's Bridge. Mustered out December, 1865.

31st Regiment, Colonel Henry C. Ward.--Organized at Hart's Island, N. Y., in the field, Virginia,
April, November, 1864. Battle: Petersburg. The 30th Connecticut consolidated with this regiment
May, 1864. Mustered out November, 1865.

32d Regiment, Colonel George W. Baird.--Organized at Camp William Penn, Pa., February, 1864.
Battles: Honey Hill, Deveaux Neck. Mustered out August, 1865.

33d Regiment, Colonel William F. Bennett.--Organized at Beaufort, S. C., January, 1863, as
the 1st Regiment South Carolina Volunteers; changed to 33d Regiment U. S. February, 1864. Battles:
Township, Mill Town Bluff, Hall Island, Jacksonville, John's Island. Mustered out January, 1866.

34th Regiment, Colonel William W. Marple.--Organized at Beaufort, Hilton Head, S. C., May,
1863. Battles: Ashepoo River, John's Island, Deveaux Neck. Mustered out February, 1866. Organization
commenced as 2d Regiment, South Carolina; changed before completion to the 34th Regiment U. S.

35th Regiment, Colonel James C. Beecher.--Organized at New Berne, N. C., June, 1863, as the
1st North Carolina Regiment, changed to 35th U. S. Regiment February, 1864. Battles: Olustee,
Black Creek, St. John's River, Honey Hill. Mustered out June, 1866.

36th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel William H. Hart.--Organized at Portsmouth, Va., as the 2d
Regiment North Carolina, changed February, 1864. Battles: Indian Town, Point Lookout, Pierson's
Farm. Petersburg, Chapin's Farm, Dutch Gap. Mustered out October, 1866.

37th Regiment, Colonel Nathan Goff.--Organized at Norfolk, Va., January, 1864, as the 3d North
Carolina Regiment; changed to 37th U. S. Regiment, February, 1864. Battles: Plymouth, Chapin's
Farm, Fair Oaks. Mustered out February, 1867.

38th Regiment, Colonel Robert W. Hall, (regular army).--Organized in Virginia January, 1864.
Battles: Chapin's Farm, Deep Bottom. Mustered out January, 1867.

39th Regiment, Colonel Ozora P. Stevens.--Organized at Baltimore, Md., March, 1864. Battles:
Petersburg, Federal Point, Bermuda Hundreds, Hatcher's Run. Mustered out December, 1865.

40th Regiment, Colonel F. W. Lester.--Organized at Nashville and Greenville, Tenn. Battle:
South Tunnel. Mustered out April, 1866.

41st Regiment, (battalion), Lieutenant-Colonel Julius A. Weiss.--Organized at Philadelphia,
Pa., September, 1864, composed of men enlisted, drafted for one, two, and three years. Consolidated
into a battalion of four companies September, 1865, of one year men. Battles: Hatcher's Run,
Fort Burnham, Petersburg, Appomattox Court House. Mustered out December, 1865.

42d Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel J. R. Putnam.--Organized at Chattanooga and Nashville, Tenn.,
April, 1864, composed of enlisted and drafted men for one and three years. Mustered out January,
1866.

43d Regiment, Colonel S. B. Yoeman. Organized at Philadelphia, Pa., March, 1864. Battles: Petersburg,
Hatcher's Run. Mustered out 1865.

44th Regiment, Colonel Lewis Johnson.--Organized at Chattanooga, Tenn., Rome, Dalton, Ga.,
April, 1864. Battles: Nashville, December 2d, 21st, 1864. Mustered out April, 1866.

45th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel E. Mayer.--Organized at Philadelphia, Pa., June, 1864. Battles:
Hatcher's Run, Petersburg. Mustered out November, 1865.

46th Regiment, Colonel C. Whittlesey.--Organized in Arkansas May, 1863, as the 1st Regiment
Arkansas Volunteers; changed to 46th Regiment U. S., May, 1864. Battle: Mound Plantation. Mustered
out January, 1866.

47th Regiment. Colonel Hiram Schofield.--Organized at Lake Providence, La., May, 1863, as the
8th Regiment Louisiana Volunteers; changed to 47th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles: Lake
Providence, Liverpool Heights, Yazoo City, Fort Blakely. Mustered out January, 1866.

48th Regiment, Colonel F. M. Crandal.--Organized at Lake Providence and Goodrich's Landing,
La., May, 1863, as the 10th Regiment Louisiana Volunteers; changed to 48th Regiment U. S.,
March, 1864. Battles: Bayou Tensa, Vicksburg, Fort Blakely. Mustered out January, 1866.

49th Regiment, Colonel Van E. Young.--Organized at Miliken's Bend, La., May, 1863, as the 11th
Regiment Louisiana Volunteers; changed to 49th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles: Miliken's
Bend, Waterproof. Mustered out March, 1866.

50th Regiment, Colonel Charles A. Gilchrist.--Organized at Vicksburg, Miss., July, 1863, as
the 12th Regiment Louisiana Volunteers; changed to 50th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battle:
Fort Blakely. Mustered out March, 1866.

51st Regiment, Colonel A. Watson Webber.--Organized at Miliken's Bend, La., and Vicksburg,
Miss., May, 1863, as the 1st Regiment Mississippi Volunteers; changed to 51st Regiment U. S.,
March, 1864. Battles: Miliken's Bend, Ross Landing, Floyd, Fort Blakely. Mustered out June, 1866.

52d Regiment, Colonel George M. Ziegler.--Organized at Vicksburg, Miss., July 27th, 1863, as
the 2d Regiment Mississippi Volunteers; changed to 52d Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles:
Vicksburg, Coleman's Plantation, Bayou Bidell. Mustered out May, 1866.

53d Regiment, Colonel Orlando C. Risdon.--Organized at Warrentown, Miss., May, 1863, as the
3d Regiment Mississippi Volunteers; changed to 53d Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles: Haines'
Bluff, Grand Gull, White River. Mustered out March, 1866.

54th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Fair.--Organized in Arkansas September, 1863, as
the 2d Regiment Arkansas Volunteers; changed to 54th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles:
Cow Creek, Arkansas River, Sabine River, Fort Gibson, Cabin Creek. Mustered out August, 1866.

54th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteers, Colonel E. N. Hallowell.--Organized at Camp Meigs,
Readville, Mass., March, 1863. Battles: James Island, Fort Wagner, Olustee, Honey Hill, Boykin's
Mill, before Charleston. Mustered out August, 1865.

55th Regiment, Colonel N. B. Bartman.--Organized at Corinth, Miss., May, 1863, as the 1st Regiment
Alabama Volunteers; changed to 55th Regiment U. S., 1864. Battles: Ripley, Brice's Cross Roads,
Moscow, Waterford. Mustered out December, 1865.

55th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteers, Colonel Alfred S. Hartwell.--Organized at Camp Meigs,
Readville, Mass., May, 1863. Battles: James Island, May 21st, July 2d, 1864, February 10th,
1865, Honey Hill, Briggen Creek, St. Stephens, Deveaux Neck. Mustered out August, 1865.

56th Regiment, Colonel Charles Bentzoni, (regular army). Organized at St. Louis, Mo., August,
1863, as the 3d Regiment Arkansas Volunteers; changed to 56th Regiment U. S., March, 1854.
Battles: Indian Bay, Meffleton Lodge, Wallace's Ferry. Mustered out September, 1866.

57th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Silas Hunter.--Organized at Duvall's Bluff, Little Rock.
Helena, Ark., December, 1863, as the 4th Regiment Arkansas Volunteers, changed to 57th Regiment
U. S., March, 1864. Battles: Little Rock, April 26th and May 28th, 1864, Camden. Mustered out
October, 1866.

58th Regiment, Colonel Simon M. Preston.--Organized at Natchez, Miss., August, 1863, as the
6th Regiment Mississippi Volunteers; changed to 58th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battle: Natchez.
Mustered out April, 1866.

59th Regiment, Colonel Edward Bonton.--Organized at La Grange, Tenn., June, 1863, as the 1st
Regiment Tennessee Volunteers; changed to 59th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles: Brice's
Cross Roads, Tupelo. Mustered out January, 1866.

60th Regiment, Colonel John G. Hudson.--Organized at Keokuk, Iowa, and Benton Barracks, Mo.,
October, 1863, as the 1st Regiment Iowa Volunteers; changed to 60th Regiment U. S., March,
1864. Battle: Big Creek. Mustered out October, 1865.

61st Regiment Lieutenant-Colonel John Foley.--Organized at La Grange, Tenn., June, 1863, as
the 2nd Regiment Tennessee Volunteers; changed to 61st Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles:
Moscow Station, Tupelo, Waterford, Memphis, Castport. Mustered out December, 1865.

62nd Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel David Branson.--Organized at Benton Barracks, Mo., December,
1863, as the 1st Regiment Missouri Volunteers; changed to 62nd Regiment U. S., March, 1864.
Battles: Glasgow, Palmetto Ranch. Mustered out March, 1866.

63rd Regiment, Major Wm. G. Sargent.--Organized at Memphis, and Island No. 10, Tenn., Vicksburg,
Miss., and Goodrich's Landing, La., November, 1863, as the 9th Regiment Louisiana Volunteers;
changed to 63rd Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles: Waterproof, Ashwood, Marengo. Mustered
out January, 1866.

64th Regiment, Colonel Samuel Thomas.--Organized at Camp Holly Springs, Memphis, and Island
No. 10, Tenn., December, 1863, as the 7th Regiment Louisiana Volunteers, changed to the 64th
Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles; Ashwood Landing, Point Pleasant, Pine Bluff, David's
Bend, June 2nd, 29th, 1864, Helena. Mustered out March, 1866.

65th Regiment, Colonel Alonzo J. Edgerton.--Organized at Benton Barracks, Mo., December, 1863,
as the 2nd Regiment Missouri Volunteers; changed to 65th Regiment U. S. March, 1864. Mustered
out January, 1867.

66th Regiment, Colonel Michael W. Smith. Organized at Vicksburg, Miss., December, 1863, as
the 4th Regiment Mississippi Volunteers; changed to 66th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles:
Columbia, Goodrich's Landing, March 24th, and July 16th, 1864, Issequena County, July 10th
and August 17th, 1864, Bayou Macon, Bayou Tensas, July 30th, and August 26th, 1864. Mustered
out March, 1866. Battle: Mount Pleasant Landing.

68th Regiment, Major Oliver H. Holcomb.--Organized at Benton Barracks, Mo., March, 1864, as
the 4th Regiment Missouri Volunteers; changed to 68th Regiment U. S., March, 1864. Battles:
Tupelo, Spanish Fort, Fort Blakely. Mustered out February, 1866.

69th Regiment, Captain James T. Watson.--Organized at Pine Bluff, Duvall's, Bluff, Little Rock,
and Helena, Ark., and Memphis, Tenn., December, 1864. Organization discontinued September,
1865, and the commissioned officers and enlisted men transferred to the 63d and 64th Regiments.

70th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Morris Yeomans.--Organized in part, April, 1864, at Natchez,
Miss.; completed November, 1864, by the consolidation of the 71st Regiment. Mustered out March,
1866.

71st Regiment, Colonel Willard C. Earle.--Organized at Black River Bridge and Natchez, Miss.,
and Alexandria, La., March, 1864; consolidated with the 70th Regiment November, 1864.

72d Regiment, Colonel Alexander Duncan.--Organized at Covington, Ky., April, 1865; discontinued
May, 1865; commissioned officers ordered before a board for examination, and enlisted men transferred
to other regiments.

73d Regiment, Colonel Samuel M. Quincy.--Organized at New Orleans, La., September, 1862, as
the 1st Native Guard Volunteers; changed to 1st Regiment Corps d'Afrique, and to 73d Regiment
U. S., April, 1864; consolidated with the 96th Regiment U. S., September, 1865. Battles: Port
Hudson, Jackson, Bayou Tunica, Steamer City Belle, Morganzia, Fort Blakely. Men mustered out
at the expiration of time.

74th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel A. G. Hall.--Organized at New Orleans, La., October, 1862,
as the 2d Regiment Louisiana Native Guard Volunteers; changed to 2d Regiment Corps d'Afrique,
June, 1863, and to the 74th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle: East Pascagoula. Mustered
out October, 1865.

75th Regiment, Colonel Henry W. Fuller.--Organized at New Orleans, La., November, 1862, as
the 3d Regiment Louisiana Native Guard Volunteers; changed to 3d Regiment Corps d'Afrique,
June, 1863, and to the 75th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battles: Jackson, Port Hudson, Pleasant
Hill, Waterloo. Mustered out November, 1865.

76th Regiment, Colonel Charles W. Drew.--Organized at New Orleans, La., February, 1863, as
the 4th Regiment Louisiana Native Guard Volunteers; changed to 4th Regiment Corps d'Afrique,
June, 1863, and to the 76th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle: Fort Blakely. Mustered out
December, 1865.

77th Regiment, Colonel Charles A. Hartwell.--Organized at Fort St. Philip, La., December, 1863,
as the 5th Regiment Infantry Corps d'Afrique, by the transfer of 291 enlisted men from the
4th Corps Regiment Volunteers; changed to 77th Regiment U. S., April, 1864; consolidated with
the 85th Regiment and with the 10th Regiment Heavy Artillery, October, 1865. Battle: Amite River.

78th Regiment, Colonel Charles L. Norton.--Organized at Port Hudson, La., September, 1863,
as the 6th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 78th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle: Port
Hudson. Mustered out January, 1866.

79th Regiment, Colonel James C. Clark.--Organized at Port Hudson, La., August, 1863, as the
7th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 79th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Broken up July,
1864. Battle: Port Hudson.

79th Regiment, Colonel James M. Williams.--Organized at Fort Scott, Kan., January, 1863, as
the 1st Regiment Kansas Volunteers; changed to 79th Regiment U. S., December, 1864. Battles:
Sherwood, Bush Creek, Cabin Creek, Honey Springs, Prairie d'Anne, Poison Springs, Jenkins Ferry,
Joys Ford, Clarksville, Horse Head Creek, Roseville Creek, Timber Hill, Lawrence, Island Mound,
Fort Gibson. Mustered out October, 1865.

80th Regiment, Colonel William S. Mudget.--Organized at Port Hudson, La., September, 1863,
as the 8th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 80th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle: Port
Hudson. Mustered out March, 1867.

81st Regiment, Colonel John F. Appleton.--Organized at Port Hudson, La., September, 1863, as
the 9th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 81st Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle: Port
Hudson. Mustered out November, 1866.

82d Regiment, Colonel Ladislos L Zulasky.--Organized at Port Hudson, La., September, 1863,
as the 10th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 82d Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battles:
Port Hudson, Barrancas, Mariana, Mitchell's Creek, Pine Barren Ford, Fort Blakely. Mustered
out September, 1866.

83d Regiment, Colonel E. Martindale.--Organized at Port Hudson, La., August, 1863, as the 11th
Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 83d Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Broken up July, 1864,
and enlisted men transferred to other regiments.

83d Regiment, Brevet Colonel J. H. Gillpatrick.--Organized at Forts Scott and Leavenworth,
Kan., August, 1863, as the 2d Regiment Kansas Volunteers; changed to 83d Regiment U. S., December,
1864. Battles: Jenkins' Ferry, April 30th, May 4th, 1864, Prairie d'Anne, Sabine River, Fort
Smith, Steamer Chippewa, Steamer Lotus, Rector's Farm.

84th Regiment, Colonel William H. Dickey.--Organized at Port Hudson, La., September, 1863,
as the 12th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 84th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle:
Morganzia. Mustered out March, 1866.

85th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Henry C. Merriam.--Organized at New Orleans, La., March,
1864, as the 13th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 85th Regiment U. S., April, 1864; consolidated
with the 77th Regiment U. S., May, 1864.

86th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel George E. Yarrington.--Organized at New Orleans, La., August,
1863, as the 14th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 86th Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle:
Fort Blakely. Mustered out April, 1866.

87th Regiment, Major H. Tobey.--Organized at New Orleans, La., September, 1863, as the 16th
Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 87th Regiment U. S., April, 1864; consolidated with the
95th Regiment U. S., November, 1864, to form the 85th Regiment U. S.; subsequently changed
to 87th Regiment U. S.

87th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel William W. Bliss.--Organized by the consolidation of the
87th and 95th Regiments U. S., November, 1864, and designated as the 87th Regiment U. S.; consolidated
with the 84th Regiment U. S., August, 1865.

88th Regiment, Colonel Edmund R. Wiley.--Organized at Memphis, Tenn., February, 1863; consolidated
with the 3d Regiment U. S. Heavy Artillery, December, 1865.

91st Regiment, Colonel Eliot Bridgeman.--Organized at Fort Pike, La., September, 1863, as the
20th Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 91st Regiment U. S., July, 1864; consolidated with
74th Regiment U. S., July, 1864. Battle: Bayou St. Louis.

92nd Regiment, Colonel H. N. Frisbie.--Organized at New Orleans, La., September, 1863, as the
22nd Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 92nd Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Battle: Red River
Expedition. Mustered out Dec. 1865.

93rd Regiment, Colonel Simon Jones.--Organized at New Iberia, La., November, 1863, as the 25th
Regiment Corps d'Afrique; changed to 93rd Regiment U. S., April, 1864. Broken up June 1865;
enlisted men transferred to 81st and 82nd Regiments U. S. Battle: Ash Bayou.

95th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel A. F. Wrohwuski.--Organized at Camp Parapet, La., April,
1863, as the 1st Regiment Engineers Corps d'Afrique; divided to form the 3rd Regiment Engineers
Corps d'Afrique; changed to 95th Regiment U. S.; consolidated with 87th Regiment November,
1864, to form 81st Regiment; changed to 87th Regiment. Battle: Port Hudson.

96th Regiment, Lieut.-Colonel O. L. F. E. Fariola.--Organized at New Orleans, La., August,
1863, as the 2nd Regiment Engineers Corps d'Afrique; changed to 96th U. S., April, 1864. Battle:
Fort Gaines. Consolidated with 73rd Regiment September, 1865; mustered out January, 1866.

97th Regiment, Geo. D. Robinson.--Composed of men transferred from the 1st Regiment Engineers
Corps d'Afrique. Organized at New Orleans, La., August, 1863, as the 3rd Regiment Engineers
Corps d'Afrique; changed to 97th U. S., April, 1864. Battle: Pine Barren Creek. Mustered out
April, 1866.

98th Regiment, Colonel Chas. L. Morton.--Organized at Camp Parapet, New Orleans, and Berwick
City, La., September, 1863, as the 4th Regiment Engineers Corps d'Afrique; changed to 98th
U. S., April, 1864; consolidated with the 78th Regiment August, 1865. Battles: Berwick, Natchez.

99th Regiment, Major Samuel Pollock.--Organized at New Orleans, La., August, 1863, as the 15th
Regiment Infantry Corps d'Afrique; changed to 5th Regiment Engineers Corps d'Afrique February,
1864, and to the 99th U. S., April, 1864; consolidated into a battalion of five companies,
December, 1865. Battles: Natural Bridge, Steamer 'Alliance.' Mustered out April, 1866.

100th Regiment, Colonel Reuben D. Massey, (regular army).--Organized in Kentucky, May, 1864.
Battles: N. & N. W. R. R., Nashville. Mustered out December, 1865.

101st Regiment, Colonel Robert W. Barnard, (regular army).--Organized in Tennessee, September,
1864. Battles: Scottsboro, Boyd's Station, Madison Station. Mustered out January, 1866.

102d Regiment, Colonel Henry L. Chipman, (regular army).--Organized at Detroit, Mich., February,
1864, as the 1st Regiment Michigan Volunteers; changed to 102d Regiment U. S., May, 1864. Battles:
Honey Hill, Deveaux Neck, Salkehatchie, Bradford's Spring, Swift's Creek. Mustered out September,
1865.

103d Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel John A. Bogert.--Organized at Hilton Head, S. C., March,
1865. Mustered out April, 1866.

104th Regiment, Colonel Douglas Frazar.--Organized at Beaufort, S. C., April, 1864. Mustered
out February, 1866.

106th Regiment, Captain Frederick Holsman.--Organized at Decatur, Ala., March, 1864, as the
4th Regiment Alabama Infantry; changed to 106th Regiment U. S., May, 1864. Battles: Mud Creek,
Athens. Consolidated with the 40th Regiment U. S., November, 1865.

107th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel David M. Sells.--Organized at Louisville, Ky., May, 1864.
Mustered out November, 1866.

108th Regiment, Colonel John S. Bishop.--Organized at Louisville, Ky., June, 1864. Battle:
Owensboro. Mustered out March, 1866.

109th Regiment, Colonel Orion A. Bartholomew.--Organized at Louisville, Ky., July, 1864. Mustered
out February, 1866.

110th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Dedrick F. Tiedemaun.--Organized at Pulaski, Tenn., November,
1863, as the 2d Regiment Alabama Volunteers; changed to 110th Regiment U. S., June, 1864. Battles:
Dallas, Athens. Mustered out February, 1866.

111th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel William H. Scroggs.--Organized at Pulaski, Prospect, and
Lynnville, Tenn., and Sulphur Branch Trestle, Ala., January, 1864, as the 3d Regiment Alabama
Volunteers; changed to 111th Regiment U. S., June, 1864. Battles: Pulaski, Sulphur Branch Trestle,
Athens, Richland. Mustered out April, 1866.

112th Regiment, Lieutenant Colonel John G. Gustafson.--Organized at Little Rock, Ark., April,
1864; consolidated with the 11th and 113th Regiments U. S., April, 1865, to form the 113th
Regiment U. S.

113th Regiment, (old), Lieutenant-Colonel Lanniston W. Whipple.--Organized at Little Rock,
Ark., March, 1864, as the 6th Regiment Arkansas Volunteers; changed to 113th Regiment U. S.,
June, 1864; consolidated with the 11th and 112th Regiment U. S. to form the 113th, (new), April,
1865.

113th Regiment, (new), Colonel Lanniston W. Whipple.--Organized at Little Rock, Ark,, April,
1865, by the consolidation of the 11th, 112th, and 113th--old regiments. Mustered out April, 1866.

114th Regiment, Colonel Thomas D. Sedgwick.--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky., July, 1864. Mustered
out April, 1867.

115th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel George T. Elder.--Organized at Bowling Green, Ky., July,
1864. Mustered out February, 1866.

116th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Kireker.--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky., July, 1864.
Mustered out February, 1866. Battle: Petersburg.

117th Regiment, Colonel Lewis G. Brown.--Organized at Covington, Ky., July, 1864. Battle: Ghent.
Mustered out August, 1867.

118th Regiment, Colonel John C. Moon. Organized at Baltimore, Md., October, 1864. Battles:
Fort Brady, Henderson. Mustered out February, 1866.

119th Regiment, Colonel Charles G. Bartlett, (regular army).--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky.
Battles: Glasgow, Taylorsville. Mustered out February, 1866.

120th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel John Glenn.--Organized at Henderson, Ky., November, 1864.
Discontinued June, 1865, and enlisted men transferred to other regiments.

122d Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel David M. Layman.--Organized at Louisville, Ky., December,
1864; consolidated into a battalion of three companies January, 1866. Mustered out February, 1866.

123d Regiment, Colonel Samuel A. Porter.--Organized at Louisville, Ky., December, 1864. Mustered
out October, 1865.

124th Regiment, Colonel Frederick H. Bierbower.--Organized at Camp Nelson, Ky., January, 1865.
Mustered out October, 1865.

125th Regiment, Colonel William R. Gerhart.--Organized at Louisville, Ky., February. 1865.
Mustered out October, 1867.

127th Regiment, (Battalion), Lieutenant-Colonel James Givin.--Organized at Philadelphia, Pa.,
August, 1864; consolidated into a battalion of three companies September, 1865. Battle: Deep
Bottom. Mustered out October, 1865.

128th Regiment, Colonel Charles H. Howard.--Organized at Hilton Head, S. C., April, 1865. Mustered
out October, 1866.

136th Regiment, Colonel Richard Root.--Organized at Atlanta, Ga., July, 1865. Mustered out
January, 1866.

137th Regiment, Colonel Martin R. Archer.--Organized at Selina, Ala., April, 1865. Mustered
into the United States service at Macon, Ga., June, 1865. Mustered out January, 1866.

138th Regiment, Colonel F. W. Benteen.--Organized at Atlanta, Ga., July, 1865. Mustered out
July, 1866.

INDEPENDENT COMPANY A.

First Lieutenant, E. M. Harris.--Organized at Camp William Penn, Pa., (one hundred days,) July,
1864. Mustered out November, 1864.

Company A, (unassigned), Captain George L. Barnes.--Organized at Alexandria, Va., (one year),
September, 1864. Mustered out July, 1865.

NINTH ARMY CORPS.

4th Division,[35] Brigadier-General Edward Ferrero.

First Brigade, Colonel Joshua K. Sigfried.--27th Regiment, 30th Regiment, 39th Regiment, 43d
Regiment.

Second Brigade, Colonel Henry G. Thomas.--19th Regiment, 29th Regiment, 23d Regiment, 28th
Regiment, 31st Regiment.

EIGHTEENTH ARMY CORPS.

3d Division, (June 15th to July 31st, 1864.)--Brigadier-General E. W. Hinks, June 1st to July
1st; Colonel John H. Holman, July 1st to 27th; Colonel S. A. Duncan, July 27th to 29th; Brigadier-General
Joseph B. Carr, since July 29th.

First Brigade, Colonel John H. Holman; Colonel Jeptha Garrard since July 2d.--1st Regiment,
10th Regiment,[36] 37th Regiment,[37] 1st Cavalry, 5th Massachusetts Cavalry.[B]

Second Brigade, Colonel S. A. Duncan.--4th Regiment, 5th Regiment, 6th Regiment, 22d Regiment,
2d Cavalry.[38]

The following regiments composed the Provisional Detachment of the Army of the Tennessee, 23rd
Army Corps, commanded by Major-General James B. Steadman, in 1864:

First Brigade, Colonel T. J. Morgan.--14th Regiment, 15th Regiment, 17th Regiment, 18th Regiment,
(battalion), 44th Regiment.

Second Brigade, Colonel Charles R. Thompson.--12th Regiment, 13th Regiment, 100th Regiment.
Post of Nashville, Battery A, 2nd Artillery.

TENTH ARMY CORPS.

Army of the Ohio, Major-General A. H. Terry.--3d Division, Brigadier-General C. J. Paine.

First Brigade, Brevet Brigadier-General D. Bates.--1st Regiment, 30th Regiment, 107th Regiment.

Second Brigade, Brevet Brigadier-General S. Duncan.--4th Regiment, 6th Regiment, 37th Regiment.

Third Brigade, Colonel J. H. Holman--5th Regiment, (Mass.,) 27th Regiment, 37th Regiment.

TENTH ARMY CORPS.[39]

3d Division, Brigadier-General William Birney.

First Brigade, Colonel James Shaw, Jr.--7th Regiment, 9th Regiment, 16th Regiment, 29th Regiment.

Second Brigade, Colonel Ulysses Doubleday.--8th Regiment, 41st Regiment, 45th Regiment, 127th
Regiment.

EIGHTEENTH ARMY CORPS.

3d Division, Brigadier-General Charles J. Paine.

First Brigade, Colonel Elias Wright.--1st Regiment, 22d Regiment, 37th Regiment.

Second Brigade, Colonel Alonzo G. Draper.--5th Regiment, 36th Regiment, 38th Regiment.

Third Brigade, Colonel John W. Ames.--4th Regiment, 6th Regiment, 10th Regiment.

Provisional Brigade, Colonel E. Martindale.--107th Regiment, 117th Regiment, 118th Regiment.

Second Regiment Cavalry.

TWENTY-FIFTH ARMY CORPS.

Organized in the field December, 1864; commander, Major-General Godfrey Weitzel.

1st Division. Brigadier-General Chas. J. Paine.

First Brigade, Colonel J. H. Holman.--1st Regiment, 27th Regiment, 30th Regiment.

Second Brigade, Brevet Brigadier-General Samuel A. Duncan.--4th Regiment, 6th Regiment, 39th
Regiment.

Third Brigade, Colonel Elias Wright, 10th Regiment.--5th Regiment, 10th Regiment, 37th Regiment,
107th Regiment.

2nd Division. Brigadier-General Wm. Birney.

First Brigade, Colonel James Shaw, 7th Regiment.--7th Regiment, 109th Regiment, 116th Regiment.

Second Brigade, Colonel Ulysses Doubleday, 45th Regiment.--8th Regiment, 45th Regiment, 127th
Regiment.

Third Brigade, Colonel Chas. S. Russell, 28th Regiment.--28th Regiment, 29th Regiment, 31st
Regiment, 117th Regiment.

3rd Division. Brigadier-General C. A. Heckman.

First Brigade, Brevet Brigadier-General A. G. Draper.--22nd Regiment, 36th Regiment, 38th Regiment,
118th Regiment.

Second Brigade, Colonel E. Martindale, 81st Regiment.--9th Regiment, 29th Conn. Regiment, 41st
Regiment.

Third Brigade, Colonel H. G. Thomas, 10th Regiment.--19th Regiment, 23rd Regiment, 43rd Regiment.

Cavalry Brigade, Brevet Brigadier-General B. C. Ludlow.--1st Cavalry, 2nd Cavalry, Light Battery
B, 2nd Artillery.

Artillery Brigade.[40] Battery D, 1st U. S. Artillery, Battery M, 1st U. S. Artillery, Battery
E, 3rd U. S. Artillery, Battery D, 4th U. S. Artillery, Battery C, 3rd R. I. Artillery, 4th
New Jersey Battery, 5th New Jersey Battery, Battery E, 1st Pa. Artillery.

REGIMENTS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH, APRIL, 1864.

1st Mich., 3rd, 7th, 8th, 9th, 21st, 26th U. S., 29th Conn., 32nd, 33rd, 34th, 35th U. S.,
54th Mass., 55th Mass. Regiments.

REGIMENTS WITH GENERAL STURGIS IN JUNE, 1864.

59th, 61st, 68th Regt's., Battery I, 2nd Reg't., Artillery (light.)

FOOTNOTES:

[34] Dr. Wright, a prominent secessionist at Norfolk, Va., swore to shoot the first white man
that he caught drilling negroes. Lieutenant A. S. Sanborn, of this regiment, while marching
a squad to headquarters through the main street of the city was shot and killed by this Dr.
Wright, for which he was hanged.

[35] There was with this division eleven batteries, four regiments of cavalry of white troops.

[36] Detached in July.

[37] Detached June 28th to Department Headquarters.

[38] Assigned June 22d, 1864.

[39] Organized in November, 1864.

[40] All white in the Artillery Brigade.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE CONFEDERATE SERVICE.

The leaders at the South in preparing for hostilities showed the people of the North, and the
authorities at Washington, that they intended to carry on the war with no want of spirit; that
every energy, every nerve, was to be taxed to its utmost tension, and that not only every white
man, but, if necessary, every black man should be made to contribute to the success of the
cause for which the war was inaugurated. Consequently, with the enrollment of the whites began
the employment of the blacks.

Prejudice against the negro at the North was so strong that it required the arm of public authority
to protect him from assault, though he declared in favor of the Union. Not so at the South,
for as early as April, 1861, the free negroes of New Orleans, La., held a public meeting and
began the organization of a battalion, with officers of their own race, with the approval of
the State government, which commissioned their negro officers. When the Louisiana militia was
reviewed, the Native Guards (negro) made up, in part, the first division of the State troops.
Elated at the success of being first to place negroes in the field together with white troops,
the commanding general sent the news over the wires to the jubilant confederacy:

                            "NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 23rd, 1861.

     "Over 28,000 troops were reviewed to-day by Governor Moore,
     Major-General Lovell and Brigadier-General Ruggles. The line
     was over seven miles long; one regiment comprised 1,400
     free colored men."

The population of the city of New Orleans differs materially from that of any other city on
this side of the Atlantic Ocean. It has several classes of colored people: the English, French,
Portuguese and Spanish,--all a mixture of the African,--and the American Negro,--mulatto,--numerically
stronger than either of the others, but socially and politically less considered and privileged;
the former enjoyed distinctive rights, somewhat as did the mulattoes in the West Indies before
slavery was abolished there. Of these foreign classes many were planters, and not a few merchants,
all owning slaves. It was from these classes that the 1,400 colored men, forming the Native
Guard regiment, came, and which recruited to 3,000 before the city was captured by the Union
fleet. This brigade was placed at the United States Mint building, under command of a creole,
who, instead of following the confederate troops out of the city when they evacuated it, allowed
his command to be cut off, and surrendered to General Butler.

Of course, prior to this date, the negro at the South had taken an active part in the preparations
for war, building breastworks, mounting cannon, digging rifle-pits and entrenchments, to shield
and protect his rebelling master.

January 1st, 1861, Hon. J. P. Walker, at Mobile, Ala., received from R. R. Riordan, Esq., of
Charleston, S. C., a dispatch rejoicing that--

     "Large gangs of negroes from plantations are at work on the
     redoubts, which are substantially made of sand-bags and
     coated with sheet-iron."

These doubtless were slaves, and mere machines; but the Charleston Mercury of January 3rd,
brought the intelligence that--

     "One hundred and fifty able-bodied free colored men
     yesterday offered their services gratuitously to the
     governor, to hasten forward the important work of throwing
     up redoubts, wherever needed, along our coast."

Only the fire-eaters based their hope of success against the North,--the National Government,--upon
the stubborn energies of the white soldiery; the deliberate men rested their hopes,--based
their expectations, more upon the docility of the negro, than upon the audacity of their white
troops.

The legislature of Tennessee, which secretly placed that State in the Southern Confederacy,
enacted in June, 1861, a law authorizing the governor--

     "To receive into the military service of the State all male
     free persons of color, between the age of 15 and 50, who
     should receive $8 per month, clothing and rations."

And then it further provided--

     "That in the event a sufficient number of free persons of
     color to meet the wants of the State shall not tender their
     service, the Governor is empowered, through the sheriffs of
     the different counties, to press such persons until the
     requisite number is obtained."

A few months after, the Memphis Avalanche, of September 3rd, 1861, exultingly announced the
appearance on the streets of Memphis, of two regiments of negroes, under command of confederate
officers. On the 7th of September, again the Avalanche said:

     "Upwards of 1000 negroes armed with spades and pickaxes have
     passed through the city within the past few days. Their
     destination is unknown, but it is supposed that they are on
     their way to the 'other side of Jordan.'"

Nor were the negroes in Virginia behind those of the other Southern States. In April, the Lynchburg
Republican chronicled the enrollment of a company of free negroes in that city, also one at
Petersburg.

Thus instead of revolts among the negroes, slaves and free, as predicted by some Union men
at the North, many became possessed of a fervor,--originating generally in fear,--stimulated
by an enthusiasm of the whites, that swept the populace like a mighty sea current into the
channel of war. The negro who boasted the loudest of his desire to fight the Yankees; who showed
the greatest anxiety to aid the confederates, was granted the most freedom and received the
approval of his master.

The gayly decked cities; the flags, bunting and streamers of all colors; the mounted cavalry;
the artillery trains with brazen cannons drawn by sturdy steeds; followed by regiments of infantry
in brilliant uniforms, with burnished muskets, glittering bayonets and beautiful plumes; preceeded
by brass bands discoursing the ever alluring strains of the quick-step; all these scenes greatly
interested and delighted the negro, and it was filling the cup of many with ecstasy to the
brim, to be allowed to connect themselves, even in the most menial way, with the demonstrations.
There was also an intuitive force that led them, and they unhesitatingly followed, feeling
that though they took up arms against the National Government, freedom was the ultimatum. Many
of those who enlisted feared to do otherwise than fight for slavery, for to refuse would have
invited, perchance, torture if not massacre; to avert which many of the free blacks, as well
as some of the slaves, gave an apparent acquiescence to the fervor of their lesser informed
comrades, who regarded any remove from the monotony of plantation life a respite.

The readiness with which they responded to the call was only astonishing to those who were
unacquainted with the true feelings of the unhappy race whose highest hope of freedom was beyond
the pearly gates of the celestial domain. One thing that impressed the blacks greatly was the
failure of Denmark Vesy, Nat Turner and John Brown, whose fate was ever held up to them as
the fate of all who attempted to free themselves or the slaves. Escape to free land was the
only possible relief they saw on earth, and that they realized as an individual venture, far
removed from the field-hand South of Delaware, Maryland and Virginia.

It was not unnatural, then, for some to spring at the opportunity offered to dig trenches and
assist Beauregard in mounting cannon, and loading them with shot and shell to fire upon Fort
Sumter.

The negro did not at first realize a fight of any magnitude possible, or that it would result
in any possible good to himself. So while the free negroes trembled because they were free,
the slaves sought refuge from suspicion of wanting to be free, behind, per se, an enthusiasm
springing, not from a desire and hope for the success of the confederates, but from a puerile
ambition to enjoy the holiday excitement.

Later on, however, when the war opened in earnest, and the question of the freedom and slavery
of the negro entered into the struggle; when extra care was taken to guide him to the rear
at night; when after a few thousand Yankee prisoners, taken in battle, had sought and obtained
an opportunity of whispering to him the real cause of the war, and the surety of the negroes'
freedom if the North was victorious, the slave negro went to the breastworks with no less agility,
but with prayers for the success of the Union troops, and a determination to go to the Yankees
at the first opportunity; though he risked life in the undertaking. When the breastworks had
been built and the heavy guns mounted, when a cordon of earthworks encircled the cities throughout
the South, and after a few thousand negroes had made good their escape into the Union lines,
then those who had labored upon the fortifications of the South were sent back to the cotton-fields
and the plantations to till the soil to supply the needs of the confederate soldiers who were
fighting to keep them in bondage. But when the policy of the North was changed and union and
liberty were made the issues of the struggle, as against slavery and disunion, and the Union
forces began to slay their enemies, the Confederate Government realized the necessity of calling
the negroes from the hoe to the musket,--from the plantations to the battle-fields.

In the incipiency of the struggle, many of the States made provision for placing the negro
at the disposal of the Confederate Government; but elated at their early victories, the leaders
deemed the enforcement of the laws unnecessary, negro troops not being needed. As the change
came, however, and defeats, with great losses in various ways depleted the armies, the necessity
of the aid of the negroes became apparent. Stronghold after stronghold, city after city, States
in part, fell before the march of the Union troops. The negro had become a soldier in the Union
army, and was helping to crush the rebellion. President Lincoln had declared all slaves in
rebeldom free, and thousands of black soldiers were marching and carrying the news to the slaves.

This state of affairs lead President Davis and his cabinet to resign to the inevitable, as
had the North, and to inaugurate the policy of emancipating and arming the slaves, knowing
full well that it was sheer folly to expect to recruit their shattered armies from the negro
population without giving them their freedom.

It was therefore in the last days of the confederate authorities, and it was their last hope
and effort for success. Despair had seized upon them. The army was daily thinned more by desertion
than by the bullets of the Union soldiers, while Sherman's march from Atlanta to the sea had
awakened the widest alarm. In the winter of 1864 and 1865 the question of arming the slaves
was presented as a means of recruiting the depleted and disordered ranks of the army, and it
soon assumed an importance that made it an absorbing topic throughout the Confederacy. There
was no other source to recruit from. The appeal to foreigners was fruitless. "The blacks had
been useful soldiers for the northern army, why should they not be made to fight for their
masters?" it was asked. Of course there was the immediate query whether they would fight to
keep themselves in slavery. This opened up a subject into which those who discussed it were
afraid to look; nevertheless it seemed unavoidable that a black conscription should be attempted,
and with that in view, every precaution was taken by those who supported the scheme to avoid
heightening the dissensions already too prevalent for good. The newspapers were advised of
the intended change of policy, to which not a few of them acquiesced. General Lee was consulted,
as the following letter, afterward printed in the Philadelphia Times, shows:

                         "HEADQUARTERS ARMY NORTHERN VIRGINIA,

                                          "January 11th, 1865.

     "HON. ANDREW HUNTER: I have received your letter of the 7th
     instant, and, without confining myself to the order of your
     interrogatories, will endeavor to answer them by a
     statement of my views on the subject.

     "I shall be most happy if I can contribute to the solution
     of a question in which I feel an interest commensurate with
     my desire for the welfare and happiness of our people.

     "Considering the relation of master and slave controlled by
     human laws, and influenced by Christianity and an
     enlightened public sentiment, as the best that can exist
     between the white and black races, while intermingled as at
     present in this country, I would deprecate any sudden
     disturbance of that relation, unless it be necessary to
     avert a greater calamity to both. I should, therefore,
     prefer to rely on our white population to preserve the ratio
     between our forces and that of the enemy, which experience
     has shown to be safe. But in view of the preparations of our
     enemies it is our duty to prepare for continued war and not
     for a battle or a campaign, and I own I fear we can not
     accomplish this without overtaxing the capacity of our white
     population.

     "Should the war continue under existing circumstances the
     enemy may in course of time penetrate our country, and get
     access to a large part of our slave population. It is his
     avowed policy to convert the able-bodied men among them into
     soldiers, and emancipate all. The success of the federal
     arms in the south was followed by a proclamation from
     President Lincoln for two hundred and eighty thousand men,
     the effect of which will be to stimulate the northern states
     to procure as substitutes for their own people the negroes
     thus brought within their reach. Many have already been
     obtained in Virginia, and should the fortunes of war expose
     more of her territory the enemy will gain a large accession
     of strength. His progress will thus add to his numbers, and
     at the same time destroy slavery in a manner most pernicious
     to the welfare of our people. Their negroes will be used to
     hold them in subjection, leaving the remaining force of the
     enemy free to extend his conquest.

     "Whatever may be the effect of our employing negro troops it
     can not be as mischievous as this. If it end in subverting
     slavery it will be accomplished by ourselves, and we can
     devise the means of alleviating the evil consequences to
     both races. I think, therefore, we must decide whether
     slavery shall be extinguished by our enemies and the slaves
     be used against us, or use them ourselves at the risk of the
     effects which may be produced upon our social institutions.
     My own opinion is that we should employ them without delay.
     I believe that, with proper regulations, they can be made
     effective soldiers. They possess the physical qualifications
     in an eminent degree. Long habits of obedience and
     subordination, coupled with that moral influence which in
     our country the white man possesses over the black, furnish
     the best foundation for that discipline which is the surest
     guarantee of military efficiency. Our chief aim should be to
     secure their fidelity. There have been formidable armies
     composed of men having no interests in the country for which
     they fought beyond their pay or the hope of plunder. But it
     is certain that the best foundation upon which the fidelity
     of an army can rest, especially in a service which imposes
     peculiar hardships and privations, is the personal interest
     of the soldier in the issue of the contest. Such an interest
     we can give our negroes by granting immediate freedom to all
     who enlist, and freedom at the end of the war to the
     families of those who discharge their duties faithfully,
     whether they survive or not, together with the privilege of
     residing at the south.

     "To this might be added a bounty for faithful service. We
     should not expect slaves to fight for prospective freedom
     when they can secure it at once by going to the enemy, in
     whose service they will incur no greater risk than in ours.
     The reasons that induce me to recommend the employment of
     negro troops at all render the effect of the measures I have
     suggested upon slavery immaterial, and in my opinion the
     best means of securing the efficiency and fidelity of this
     auxiliary force would be to accompany the measure with a
     well-digested plan of gradual and general emancipation. As
     that will be the result of the continuance of the war, and
     will certainly occur if the enemy succeed, it seems to me
     most advisable to adopt it at once, and thereby obtain all
     the benefits that will accrue to our cause.

     "The employment of negro troops under regulations similar to
     those indicated would, in my opinion, greatly increase our
     military strength, and enable us to relieve our white
     population to some extent. I think we could dispense with
     the reserve forces, except in cases of emergency. It would
     disappoint the hopes which our enemies have upon our
     exhaustion, deprive them in a great measure of the aid they
     now derive from black troops, and thus throw the burden of
     the war upon their own people. In addition to the great
     political advantages that would result to our cause from the
     adoption of a system of emancipation, it would exercise a
     salutary influence upon our negro population, by rendering
     more secure the fidelity of those who become soldiers, and
     diminishing the inducements to the rest to abscond.

     "I can only say in conclusion that whatever measures are to
     be adopted should be adopted at once. Every day's delay
     increases the difficulty. Much time will be required to
     organize and discipline the men, and action may be deferred
     till it is too late.

          "Very respectfully,

              "Your obedient servant,

        "A true copy. J. B. W."    "(Signed,) R. E. LEE, General."

This letter was intended for members of Congress to read, and it was circulated among them,
but all was not harmony. Many members were bitterly opposed to arming the slaves, some of them
denounced General Lee for writing the letter, and prepared to oppose the measure when it should
be introduced into Congress.[41]

At length the period for its introduction arrived. Lee in his attempted invasion of the north
made no more careful preparations than did Mr. Davis and his cabinet to carry through Congress
the bill enrolling slaves and to emancipate them. Finally the hour was at hand, and amid the
mutterings of dissenters, and threats of members to resign their seats if the measure was forced
through, the administration began to realize more sensibly its weakness. However, it stood
by the carefully drawn bill.

Of course the negro people about the city of Richmond heard of the proposition to arm and emancipate
them if they would voluntarily fight for their old masters. They discussed its merits with
a sagacity wiser than those who proposed the scheme, and it is safe to say that they concluded,
in the language of one who spoke on the matter, "It am too late, de Yankees am coming." There
were those among them, however, known as the free class, who stood ever ready to imitate the
whites, believing that course to be an evidence of their superiority over the slaves. They
were very anxious to enlist.

On February 8th Senator Brown, of Mississippi, introduced a resolution which, if it had been
adopted, would have freed 200,000 negroes and put them into the army; but on the next day it
was voted down in secret session. Upon this very February 9th, when Senator Brown's resolution
was lost, Mr. Benjamin, Secretary of State, addressed a large public meeting at Richmond. He
made a very extraordinary speech, setting forth the policy of President Davis and his cabinet.
Emissaries of Mr. Davis had just returned from the Peace Conference at Fortress Monroe, where
they met representatives of the United States government, and learned that the conditions upon
which the Southern States could resume their relations were those which they were compelled
to accept finally. During Mr. Benjamin's speech he said:

     "We have 680,000 blacks capable of bearing arms, and who
     ought now to be in the field. Let us now say to every negro
     who wishes to go into the ranks on condition of being free,
     go and fight--you are free. My own negroes have been to me
     and said, 'Master, set us free and we'll fight for you.'
     You must make up your minds to try this or see your army
     withdrawn from before your town. I know not where white men
     can be found."

Mr. Benjamin's speech created an intense excitement among the slave-holders. The situation
seemed to have narrowed itself down to a disagreeable alternative. They must either fight themselves
or let the slaves fight. Doubtless many would have preferred submission to Lincoln, but then
they could not save their slaves. Immediately following Mr. Benjamin's speech on the 11th,
a bill was introduced into the House of Representatives authorizing the enlistment of 200,000
slaves, with the consent of their owners. As a test of its strength a motion was made for the
rejection of this bill, and the vote not to reject it was more than two to one. There was every
indication that the bill would pass. It was while this measure was under discussion that General
Lee wrote the letter which follows in answer to one of inquiry from a member of the House:

             "HEADQUARTERS CONFEDERATE STATE ARMIES,

                                    "February 18th, 1865.

     "Hon. Barksdale, House of Representatives, Richmond.

     "SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
     letter of the 12th inst. with reference to the employment of
     negroes as soldiers. I think the measure not only expedient
     but necessary. The enemy will certainly use them against us
     if he can get possession of them, and as his present
     numerical superiority will enable him to penetrate many
     parts of the country, I can not see the wisdom of the policy
     of holding them to await his arrival, when we may, by timely
     action and judicious management, use them to arrest his
     progress. I do not think that our white population can
     supply the necessities of a long war without overtaxing its
     capacity, and imposing great suffering upon our people; and
     I believe we should provide resources for a protracted
     struggle, not merely for a battle or a campaign.

     "In answer to your second question I can only say that, in
     my opinion, under proper circumstances the negroes will make
     efficient soldiers. I think we could at least do as well
     with them as the enemy, and he attaches great importance to
     their assistance. Under good officers and good instructions
     I do not see why they should not become soldiers. They
     possess all the physical qualifications, and their habits of
     obedience constitute a good formulation for discipline. They
     furnish a more promising material than many armies of which
     we read in history, which owed their efficiency to
     discipline alone. I think those employed should be freed.
     It would be neither wisdom nor justice, in my opinion, to
     require them to serve as slaves. The best course to pursue,
     it seems to me, is to call for such as are willing to come
     with the consent of their owners. Impressment or draft would
     not be likely to bring out the best class, and the use of
     coercion would make the measure distasteful to them and to
     their owners. I have no doubt if Congress would authorize
     their reception into service, and empower the President to
     call upon individuals or States for such as they are willing
     to contribute with the condition of emancipation to all
     enrolled, a sufficient number would be forthcoming to enable
     us to try the experiment.

     "If it proves successful, most of the objections to the
     matter would disappear, and if individuals still remained
     unwilling to send their negroes to the army, the force of
     public opinion in the States would soon bring about such
     legislation as would remove all obstacles. I think the
     matter should be left as far as possible to the people and
     the States, which alone can legislate as the necessities of
     this particular service may require. As to the mode of
     organizing them, it should be left as free from restraint as
     possible. Experience will suggest the best course, and would
     be inexpedient to trammel the subject with provisions that
     might in the end prevent the adoption of reforms, suggested
     by actual trial.

            "With great respect,

                    "ROBERT E. LEE, General."

Meanwhile the measure, to forward which this letter was written, was progressing very slowly.
J. B. Jones, clerk of the War Department of the Confederate Government, entered in his diary
from day to day such scraps of information as he was able to glean about the progress of this
important matter. These entries are significant of the anxiety of this critical time. Under
February 14th we find this entry:

     "Yesterday some progress was made with the measure of
     200,000 negroes for the army. Something must be done and
     soon."

     "February 16th.--Did nothing yesterday; it is supposed,
     however, that the bill recruiting negro troops will pass. I
     fear when it is too late."

     "February 17th.--A letter from General Lee to General Wise
     is published, thanking the latter's brigade for resolutions
     recently adopted declaring that they would consent to
     gradual emancipation for the sake of independence and peace.
     From all signs slavery is doomed. But if 200,000 negro
     recruits can be made to fight and can be enlisted, General
     Lee may maintain the war, very easily and successfully, and
     the powers at Washington may soon become disposed to abate
     the hard terms of peace now exacted."

     "February 21st.--The negro bill has passed one house and
     will pass the other to-day, but the measure may come too
     late. The enemy is enclosing us on all sides with great
     vigor and rapidity."

     "February 22nd.--Yesterday the Senate postponed action on
     the negro bill. What this means I cannot conjecture, unless
     there are dispatches from abroad with assurance of
     recognition, based on stipulations of emancipation, which
     can not be carried into effect without the consent of the
     States, and a majority of these seem in a fair way of
     falling into the hands of the Federal generals."

     "February 24th.--Yesterday the Senate voted down the bill to
     put 200,000 negroes into the army. The papers to-day contain
     a letter from General Lee, advocating the measure as a
     necessity. Mr. Hunter's[42] vote defeated it. He has many
     negroes, and will probably lose them; but the loss of
     popularity and fear of forfeiting all chance of the
     succession may have operated upon him as a politician. What
     madness! 'Under which king, Benzonian?'"

     "February 25th.--Mr. Hunter's eyes seem blood-shot since he
     voted against Lee's plan of organizing negro troops."

     "February 26th.--Mr. Hunter is now reproached by the
     slave-holders he thought to please for defeating the negro
     bill. They say his vote will make Virginia a free State,
     inasmuch as General Lee must evacuate it for want of negro
     troops."

     "March 2d.--Negro bill still hangs fire in Congress."

     "March 9th.--Yesterday the Senate passed the negro troops
     bill--Mr. Hunter voting for it under instruction."

     "March 10th.--The president has the reins now, and Congress
     will be more obedient; but can they leave the city?
     Advertisements for recruiting negro troops are in the papers
     this morning."

     "March 17th.--We shall have a negro army. Letters are
     pouring into the department from men of military skill and
     character asking authority to raise companies, battalions,
     and regiments of negro troops. It is a desperate remedy for
     the desperate case, and may be successful. If 200,000
     efficient soldiers can be made of this material there is no
     conjecturing when the next campaign may end. Possibly 'over
     the border;' for a little success will elate our spirits
     extravagantly, and the blackened ruins of our towns, and the
     moans of women and children bereft of shelter, will appeal
     strongly to the army for vengeance."

     "March 19th.--Unless food and men can be had Virginia must
     be lost. The negro experiment will soon be tested. Curtis
     says that the letters are pouring into the department from
     all quarters asking authority to raise and command negro
     troops. 100,000 troops from this source might do wonders."

So ends the entries on this interesting subject in Mr. Jones' diary. Though the conscientious
war clerk ceased to record, the excitement and effort of the advocates of the measure by no
means slackened. Grant's cordon around the city drew closer and tighter each day and hour,
continually alarming the inhabitants. Governor Smith gave the negro soldier scheme his personal
influence and attention. The newspapers began clamoring for conscription. No little effort
was made to raise a regiment of free blacks and mulattoes in the latter days of January, and
early in February a rendezvous was established at Richmond, and a proclamation was issued by
the State authorities. A detail of white officers was made, and enlistment began. The agitation
of the subject in Congress, though in secret session, gave some encouragement to the many despairing
and heart-sick soldiers of the Army of Northern Virginia.[43] Their chief commander, Lee, perhaps
dreamed nightly that he commanded 200,000 negro troops en masse, and was driving the Yankees
and their Black Phalanx like chaff from off the "sacred soil" of the Old Dominion, but, alas,
such a dream was never to be realized.

About twenty negroes,[44] mostly of the free class, enlisted, went into camp, and were uniformed
in Confederate gray. These twenty men, three of whom were slaves of Mr. Benjamin, Confederate
Secretary of State, were daily marched into the city and drilled by their white officers in
the Capitol Square, receiving the approving and congratulatory plaudits of the ladies, who
were always present.[45] However, no accessions were gained to their ranks, consequently the
scheme, to raise by enlistment a regiment of blacks, was a failure, for the few volunteers
secured in Virginia and a company in Tennessee are all that the writer has been able to obtain
any account of. The Confederate authorities then sought to strengthen the army by conscripting
all able-bodied negroes, free and slave, between the age of eighteen and fifty. Monday, April
3d, was appointed as the day to begin the draft. The Virginia State Legislature had come to
the rescue of the Davis-Lee-Benjamin scheme, and so had the local authorities of Richmond,
but all was to no purpose. It was too late; they had delayed too long.

With a pitiable blindness to the approach of his downfall, only a few days before he became
a fugitive, Jefferson Davis wrote the following letter:[46]

                         "RICHMOND, Va., March 30th, 1865.

     "His Excellency William Smith, Governor of Virginia:

     "Upon the receipt of your letter of the 27th inst. I had a
     conference with the Secretary of War and Adjutant-General in
     relation to your suggestion as to the published order for
     the organization of negro troops, and I hope that the
     modification which has been made will remove the objection
     which you pointed out. It was never my intention to collect
     negroes in depots for purposes of instruction, but only as
     the best mode of forwarding them, either as individuals or
     as companies, to the command with which they were to serve.
     The officers in the different posts will aid in providing
     for the negroes in their respective neighborhoods, and in
     forwarding them to depots where transportation will be
     available, and aid them in reaching the field of service for
     which they were destined. The aid of gentlemen who are
     willing and able to raise this character of troops will be
     freely accepted. The appointment of commanders, for reasons
     obvious to you, must depend on other considerations than the
     mere power to recruit.

     "I am happy to receive your assurance of success as well as
     your promise to seek legislation to secure unmistakably
     freedom to the slave who shall enter the army, with a right
     to return to his old home when he shall have been honorably
     discharged from the military service.

     "I remain of the opinion that we should confine our first
     efforts to getting volunteers, and would prefer that you
     would adopt such measures as would advance that mode of
     recruiting, rather than that of which you make enquiry, to
     wit: by issuing requisitions for the slaves as authorized by
     the State of Virginia.

     "I have the honor to be, with much respect,

         "Your obedient servant,
            JEFFERSON DAVIS."

The appointed time came, but instead of the draft, amid blazing roofs and falling walls, smoke
and ashes, deafening reports of explosions, the frenzy of women and children, left alone not
only by the negro conscripting officers and President Davis and his Cabinet, but by the army
and navy; in the midst of such scenes, almost beyond description, the Black Phalanx of the
Union army entered the burning city, the capitol of rebeldom, scattering President Lincoln's
Proclamation of Emancipation to the intended confederate black army. For twelve squares they
chanted their war songs, "The Colored Volunteers" and "John Brown," in the chorus of which
thousands of welcoming freed men and freed women joined, making the welkin ring with the refrain,

    "Glory, glory hallelujah,
    Glory, glory hallelujah,
    Glory, glory hallelujah,
    We is free to-day!"

The decisive events of the next few days, following in rapid succession, culminating with Lee's
surrender, on the 9th of April, at Appomattox, left no time for further action, and when the
war was over, with the important and radical changes that took place, it was almost forgotten
that such projects as arming and freeing the negro had ever been entertained in the South by
the Confederate Government.

FOOTNOTES:

[41] General William C. Wickham led the opponents of the project in a very bitter pro-slavery
speech.

[42] It was upon the discussion of this bill that Mr. Hunter, of Virginia, made these significant
statements and admissions:

"When we left the old government we thought we had got rid forever of the slavery agitation;
but, to my surprise, I find that this (the Confederate) Government assumes power to arm the
slaves, which involves also the power of emancipation. This proposition would be regarded as
a confession of despair. If we are right in passing this measure, we are wrong in denying to
the old government the right to interfere with slavery and to emancipate slaves. If we offer
the slaves their freedom as a boon we confess that we are insincere and hypocritical in saying
slavery was the best state for the negroes themselves. I believe that the arming and emancipating
the slaves will be an abandonment of the contest. To arm the negroes is to give them freedom.
When they come out scarred from the conflict they must be free."

[43] Of these twenty volunteers six of them are frequently to be met on the streets of Richmond,
while some of them are members of the Colored State Militia of Virginia.

[44] The veterans of General Henry A. Wise's Legion adopted resolutions commending the scheme.

[45] On April 1st, 1865, quite a company of negroes, most of whom were pressed into the service,
paraded the streets of Richmond.

[46] This letter is a copy of the original now in possession of Senator George A. Brooks. It
has never before been published.

PART III.

MISCELLANY.

CHAPTER I.

THE BLACK PHALANX AT SCHOOL.

The esteem in which education was held by the soldiers of the Black Phalanx, can be judged
of best by the efforts they made to educate themselves and to establish a system of education
for others of their race. Doubtless many persons suppose that the negro soldier elated with
his release from slavery, was contented; that his patriotism was displayed solely upon the
field of battle, simply to insure to himself that one highest and greatest boon, his freedom.
Such a supposition is far from the truth. The Phalanx soldiers had a strong race pride, and
the idea that ignorance was the cause of their oppression gave zest to their desire to be educated.

When they found following the United States Army a large number of educated people from the
North, establishing schools wherever they could in village, city and camp, and that education
was free to all, there was awakened in the black soldier's breast an ambition, not only to
obtain knowledge, but to contribute money in aid of educational institutions, which was done,
and with liberal hands, during and subsequent to the war.

Unlettered themselves, they became daily more and more deeply impressed, through their military
associations, and by contact with things that required knowledge, with the necessity of having
an education. Each soldier felt that but for his illiteracy he might be a sergeant, company
clerk, or quartermaster, and not a few, that if educated, they might be lieutenants and captains.
This was not an unnatural conclusion for a brave soldier to arrive at, when men no braver than
himself, were being promoted for bravery.

Generally there was one of three things the negro soldiers could be found doing when at leisure:
discussing religion, cleaning his musket and accoutrements, or trying to read. His zeal frequently
led him to neglect to eat for the latter. Every camp had a teacher, in fact every company had
some one to instruct the soldiers in reading, if nothing more. Since the war I have known of
more than one who have taken up the profession of preaching and law making, whose first letter
was learned in camp; and not a few who have entered college.

The negro soldier was not only patriotic in the highest sense but he was a quick observer of
both the disadvantages and opportunities of his race. He recognized the fact that the general
education of the white men who composed the Union army in contra-distinction to so many of
those of the confederate army, gave them great prestige over the enemy. The ingenuity of the
Yankee he attributed to his education, and he readily decided that he lacked only the Yankee's
education to be his equal in genius. Great was the incentive given him by example, arousing
his latent hope to be something more than a free man; if not that, his children might rise
from the cornfield to the higher walks of life. Their thirst for a knowledge of letters was
evinced in more ways than one, as was their appreciation of the opportunity to assist in providing
for coming generations.

Colonel G. M. Arnold says:

     "Aside from the military duties required of the men forming
     the Phalanx regiments, the school teacher was drilling and
     preparing them in the comprehension of letters and figures.
     In nearly every regiment a school, during the encampment,
     was established, in some instances female teachers from the
     North, impulsed by that philanthropy which induced an army
     of teachers South to teach the freedmen, also brought them
     to the barracks and the camp ground to instruct the soldiers
     of the Phalanx. Their ambition to learn to read and write
     was as strong as their love of freedom, and no opportunity
     was lost by them to acquire a knowledge of letters. So
     ardent were they that they formed squads and hired
     teachers, paying them out of their pittance of seven dollars
     per month, or out of the bounty paid to them by the State to
     which they were accredited. In a number of instances the
     officers themselves gave instructions to their command, and
     made education a feature and a part of their duty, thereby
     bringing the soldier up to a full comprehension of the
     responsibility of his trust. "Taps" was an unpleasant sound
     to many a soldier, who, after the fatigue and drill of the
     day was over, sat himself down upon an empty cracker box,
     with a short candle in one hand and a spelling book in the
     other, to study the ab, eb, ob's. When the truce was sounded
     after a day or night's hard fighting, many of these men
     renewed their courage by studying and reading in the 'New
     England Speller.' And where they have fought,--died where
     they fell, and their bodies left to the enemy's mercy, they
     often found in the dead soldier's knapsack a spelling-book
     and a Testament. At the siege of Port Hudson and Charleston,
     and of Richmond, agents of the Christian Commission and of
     various other societies, made a specialty of the
     spelling-book for distribution among the soldiers of the
     Phalanx, and upon more than one occasion have these soldiers
     been found in the trenches with the speller in hand,
     muttering, bla, ble."

The historian of the 55th Regiment says:

     "A great desire existed among those who had been deprived of
     all educational privileges to learn to read and write, and
     through the kindness and labors of Dr. Bowditch and others,
     a school was established to teach those who desired to
     learn. Many availed themselves of this, and many were
     assisted by their company officers and their better informed
     fellow-soldiers, so that a decided improvement in this
     respect was effected among the men during their stay at
     Readville."

But it is not necessary to dwell upon the subject to show the eagerness of these soldiers to
learn to read and write, as many of them did.

Lieutenant James M. Trotter,[47] in an article published in Mr. Fortune's paper, gives this
graphic description of "The School-master in the Army":

     "Of the many interesting experiences that attended our
     colored soldiery during the late war none are more worthy of
     being recounted than those relating to the rather improvised
     schools, in which were taught the rudimentary branches. One
     would naturally think that the tented field, so often
     suddenly changed to the bloody field of battle, was the last
     place in the world where would be called into requisition
     the schoolteacher's services; in fact it would hardly be
     supposed that such a thing was possible. Yet in our colored
     American army this became not only possible but really
     practicable, for in it frequently, in an off-hand manner,
     schools were established and maintained, not only for
     teaching the soldiers to read and write but also to sing,
     nor were debating societies, even, things unheard of in the
     camp life of these men. Besides in quite a number of the
     colored regiments military bands were formed, and under the
     instruction of sometimes a band teacher from the north, and
     at others under one of their own proficient fellow-soldiers,
     these bands learned to discourse most entertaining music in
     camp, and often by their inspiriting strains did much to
     relieve the fatigue occasioned by long and tiresome marches.
     But we are speaking now mainly of the work of the
     school-teacher proper. And what shall we say of the halls of
     learning in which were gathered his eager pupils? Well,
     certainly these would not compare favorably with those of
     civil life, as may well be imagined. As says Bryant, truly
     and beautifully, speaking of primitive religious worship:

          'The groves were God's first temples.'

     So, too, in the groves and fields of their new land of
     liberty, these men found their first temples of learning,
     and in spite of all inconveniences these school tents were
     rendered quite serviceable. Of the text books used there is
     not much to say, for these were generally 'few and far
     between.' Books were used at times, of course, but quite as
     often the instruction given was entirely oral. That these
     spare facilities did not render the teacher's efforts
     ineffective was abundantly proven in the service, and has
     been proven since in civil life. Scattered here and there
     over this broad country to-day are many veteran soldiers who
     are good readers and writers, some of them even fair
     scholars, who took their first lessons from some manly
     officer or no less manly fellow-soldier in the manner
     mentioned, during such camp intervals as were allowed by the
     dread arbitrament of war. In a number of regiments these
     fortunate intervals were quite frequent and of long
     duration, and in such cases, therefore, much progress was
     made.

     "It must, of course, be remembered that in our colored
     regiments a very large percentage of the men were
     illiterate, especially in those composed of men from the
     south and so lately escaped from under the iron heel of
     slavery. Indeed, in many of them there could scarcely be
     found at the commencement of the service a man who could
     either read or write. Many an officer can recall his rather
     novel experience in teaching his first sergeant enough of
     figures and script letters to enable the latter to make up
     and sign the company morning report. All honor to those
     faithful, patient officers, and all honor, too, give to
     those ambitious sergeants who after a while conquered great
     difficulties and became educationally proficient in their
     lines of duty.

     "In this connection I readily call to mind one of the most,
     if not the most, unique figures of all my experience in the
     army. It was Colonel James Beecher, of the famous Beecher
     family, and a brother of Henry Ward Beecher. He was in
     command of the First North Carolina Colored Regiment. In
     this position it would be hard to overestimate the variety
     and value of his services, for he became for his soldiers at
     once a gallant fighter, an eloquent, convincing preacher,
     and a most indefatigable and successful school-teacher.
     Preaching had been his vocation before entering the army,
     and so it was but natural for him to continue in that work.
     At one time our regiment lay encamped near his in South
     Carolina, and I well remember how, on one Sabbath morning,
     the two commands formed a union service, all listening with
     deep, thrilling interest to the inspiring words of this
     "fighting parson." That he was indeed a fighting parson we
     fully learned not long after this Sabbath service. For again
     we met on the bloody field of battle, where in the very
     front of the fight we saw him gallantly leading his no less
     gallant men, even after he had been wounded, and while the
     blood almost streamed down his face. Seeing him thus was to
     ever remember him and his noble work with his regiment.

     "Colonel Beecher when encamped neglected no opportunity to
     form schools of instruction for his men, in order that they
     might become not only intelligent, efficient soldiers, but
     also intelligent, self-respecting citizens, should they
     survive the perils of war. I do not know what are his
     thoughts to-day, but judging from the grand work of Colonel
     Beecher in his black regiment, I can not doubt that he looks
     back to it all with satisfaction and pride, and as forming
     the richest experience of his life.

     "I know another ex-colonel and scholar, of high rank as a
     man of letters and in social life, who yielding to the call
     of duty, not less to country than to a struggling race, left
     his congenial studies and took command of a colored
     regiment, becoming not only their leader, but, as chance
     afforded, their school-teacher also. However, as he has
     given to the world his army experience in a book abounding
     in passages of thrilling dramatic interest, I need only in
     this connection make mention of him. I refer to that true
     and tried friend of the colored race, Colonel T. W.
     Higginson.

     "But let it not be supposed for a moment that only officers
     and men of another race were engaged in this noble work of
     school-teaching in our colored army. Not a few of the best
     workers were colored chaplains, who wisely divided their
     time between preaching, administering to the sick by reason
     of wounds or otherwise, and to teaching the old 'young idea
     how to shoot;' while many non-commissioned officers and
     private soldiers cheerfully rendered effective service in
     the same direction. Nor must we close without expressing
     warm admiration for those earnest, ambitious soldier pupils
     who, when finding themselves grown to man's estate, having
     been debarred by the terrible system of slavery from
     securing an education, yielded not to what would have been
     considered only a natural discouragement, but, instead,
     followed the advice and instruction of their comrade
     teachers, and, bending themselves to most assiduous study,
     gained in some cases great proficiency, and in all much that
     fitted them for usefulness and the proper enjoyment of their
     well-earned liberty. And so we say, all honor to teachers
     and taught in the Grand Army that made a free republic,
     whose safe foundation and perpetuity lies in the general
     education of its citizens."

FOOTNOTES:

[47] Now Registrar at Washington, D. C.

CHAPTER II.

BENEVOLENCE AND FRUGALITY.

The negro troops gave striking evidence of both benevolence and frugality with the money they
received. They needed but to be shown an opportunity to contribute to some object, when they
quickly responded. Frequently, too, they fell easy victims to the crafty camp bummers and speculators,
who were ever collecting means for some charitable object for the benefit of the negro race.
However, here it will be a pleasing duty to name some of the more conspicuous instances where
their charity was well and nobly bestowed. At the same time they deposited a vast aggregate
sum of savings in different banks established for this purpose.

The 62nd Regiment contributed to a commendable project gotten up by its officers, who gave,
themselves, $1,034.60, the regiment giving $3,966.50. With this money the founding of a school
was commenced, which eventually became a college known as the Lincoln Institute, situated at
Jefferson City, Mo. To this sum of $5,001.10, the 65th Regiment contributed $1,379.50, through
the efforts of their officers. The sum was soon increased to $20,000, and the Institute stands
to-day a monument to the 62nd and 65th Phalanx Regiments.

Professor Foster, in his history of this Institute, gives these interesting details:

     "Dr. Allen, a man of high character and influence, gave the
     scheme standing ground by declaring that he would give $100.
     Both our field officers, Colonel Barrett and
     Lieutenant-Colonel Branson, though neither was with us at
     the time, afterwards subscribed a like amount. Others
     responded in the same spirit. Officers and men entered into
     the work with enthusiasm. The lieutenants gave $50 each;
     officers of higher rank, $100. First Sergeant Brown, Co D,
     gave $75; Sergeants Curd, Bergamire, Alexander and Moore
     each gave $50, while the number who gave 25, 20, 15, 10, and
     5 dollars apiece is too great for me to recall their names
     on this occasion, but they are all preserved in our records.
     The total result in the 62nd Regiment was $1,034.60,
     contributed by the officers, and $3,966.50 by the colored
     soldiers. The soldiers of the 65th Regiment afterwards added
     $1,379.50. One of them, Samuel Sexton, gave $100 from his
     earnings as a private soldier at $13 per month, an example
     of liberality that may well challenge comparison with the
     acts of those rich men who, from their surplus, give
     thousands to found colleges."

Colonel David Branson, late of the 62nd Regiment, in his dedicatory speech, said:

     "MY FRIENDS:--This, with one exception, has been the
     happiest 4th of July in my life. That exception was in 1863,
     when I saw the rebel flag go down at Vicksburg. I felt the
     exultation of victory then, and I feel it to-day as I look
     upon this splendid building. Looking in the faces of my old
     comrades of the 62nd Regiment here to-day, memory goes back
     to the past, when hundreds of you came to me at Benton
     Barracks, ragged, starving, and freezing--some did freeze to
     death--and emotions fill me that no language can express. I
     cannot sit down and think of those scenes of suffering
     without almost shedding tears. But happily those days are
     passed. No more marching with sluggish step and plantation
     gait through the streets of St. Louis, Mo., amid the jeers
     of your enemies; no more crossing the Mississippi on ice; no
     more sinking steamers, and consequent exposure on the cold,
     muddy banks of the river; no more killing labor on
     fortifications at Port Hudson, Baton Rouge and Morganza; no
     more voyages over the Gulf of Mexico, packed like cattle in
     the hold of a vessel; no mere weary marches in the burning
     climate of Texas; no more death by the bullet, and no more
     afternoons on the banks of the Rio Grande, deliberating on
     the future education of yourselves when discharged from the
     army; but peace and prosperity here with the result of those
     deliberations before us. Our enemies predicted, that upon
     the disbanding of our volunteer army--particularly the
     colored portion of it--it would turn to bands of marauding
     murderers and idle vagabonds, and this Institute was our
     answer."

When Colonel Shaw, of the 54th Regiment, fell at Fort Wagner, the brave soldiers of that regiment
gladly contributed to a fund for a monument to his memory, but which, upon reflection, was
appropriated to building the Shaw School at Charleston, S. C. And yet all these sums sink into
insignificance when compared to that contributed by the negro soldiers to the erection of a
monument to the memory of President Lincoln, at the capitol of the nation; seventeen hundred
of them gave ten thousand dollars. But let the record speak for itself, for it is only a people's
patriotism that can do such things:

     CORRESPONDENCE AND STATEMENTS OF JAMES E. YEATMAN,

     PRESIDENT OF THE WESTERN SANITARY COMMISSION, RELATIVE
     TO THE EMANCIPATION MONUMENT.

                          "ST. LOUIS, April 26th, 1865.

     "James E. Yeatman, Esq.:

     "MY DEAR SIR; A poor negro woman, of Marietta, Ohio, one of
     those made free by President Lincoln's proclamation,
     proposes that a monument to their dead friend be erected by
     the colored people of the United States. She has handed to a
     person in Marietta five dollars as her contribution for the
     purpose. Such a monument would have a history more grand and
     touching than any of which we have account. Would it not be
     well to take up this suggestion and make it known to the
     freedmen?

            "Yours truly,   T. C. H. SMITH."

Mr. Yeatman says:

     "In compliance with General Smith's suggestion I published
     his letter, with a card, stating that any desiring to
     contribute to a fund for such a purpose, that the Western
     Sanitary Commission would receive the same and see that it
     was judiciously appropriated as intended. In response to his
     communication liberal contributions were received from
     colored soldiers under the command of General J. W.
     Davidson, headquarters at Natchez, Miss., amounting in all
     to $12,150. This was subsequently increased from other
     sources to $16,242."

                          "MARIETTA, OHIO, June 29th, 1865.

     "Mr. James E. Yeatman, President Western Sanitary Commission, St. Louis:

     "MY DEAR SIR: I have learned, with the greatest
     satisfaction, through Brigadier-General T. C. H. Smith and
     the public press that you are devoting your noble energies
     in giving tone and direction to the collection and
     appropriation of a fund for the erection of the Freedmen's
     National Monument, in honor and memory of the benefactor and
     savior of their race.

     "The general also informs me that you desire, and have
     requested through him that the five dollars deposited with
     the Rev. C. H. Battelle, of this city, by Charlotte Scott,
     should be used as the original and foundation subscription
     for this most praiseworthy purpose; and Mr. Battelle assures
     me that he will most cheerfully remit it to you this day. As
     a slave-holder by inheritance, and up to a period after the
     outbreak of the rebellion, and as an ardent admirer of our
     lamented president, the author of universal emancipation in
     America, I feel an enthusiastic interest in the success of
     the Freedmen's National Monument. I hope it may stand
     unequalled and unrivalled in grandeur and magnificence. It
     should be built essentially by freedmen, and should be
     emphatically national. Every dollar should come from the
     former slaves, every State should furnish a stone, and the
     monument should be erected at the capital of the nation.
     Nothing could be better calculated to stimulate this
     downtrodden and abused race to renewed efforts for a moral
     and national status.

     "Charlotte Scott, whose photograph General Smith will
     forward, was born a slave in Campbell County, Virginia. She
     is about sixty years old, but is very hale and active. Her
     reputation for industry, intelligence, and moral integrity,
     has always been appreciated by her friends and
     acquaintances, both white and colored. She was given, with
     other slaves, to my wife, by her father, Thomas H. Scott.
     When we received the news of Mr. Lincoln's assassination,
     the morning after its occurrence, she was deeply distressed.
     In a conversation with Mrs. Rucker, she said: 'The colored
     people have lost their best friend on earth. Mr. Lincoln was
     our best friend, and I will give five dollars of my wages
     towards erecting a monument to his memory.' She asked me
     who would be the best person to raise money for the purpose.
     I suggested Mr. Battelle, and she gave him the five dollars.

                "I am, my dear sir, truly and respectfully,

                                    "WILLIAM P. RUCKER."

                               "MARIETTA, OHIO, June 29th, 1865.

     "Mr. J. E. Yeatman.

     "DEAR SIR: I was providentially called upon by Charlotte
     Scott, formerly a slave of Dr. W. P. Rucker, now living in
     this place, to receive the enclosed $5, as the commencement
     of a fund to be applied to rearing a monument to the memory
     of Hon. Abraham Lincoln.

     "I received her offering, and gave notice through the press
     that I would receive other donations, and cheerfully do what
     I could to promote so noble an object. Other persons have
     signified their willingness to give when the measure is
     fully inaugurated.

     "By the advice of General T. C. H. Smith I herewith forward
     you her contribution, and I hope to here from you upon its
     receipt, that I may show to Charlotte and others that the
     money has gone in the right direction. After hearing from
     you I hope to be able to stir up the other colored folks on
     this subject.

     "I rejoice, dear sir, that I have some connection with this
     honorable movement in its incipiency. I shall not fail to
     watch its progress with thrilling interest, and hope to live
     until the top stone shall be laid amid the jubilant
     rejoicing of emancipated millions crying 'Grace, grace unto
     it.'

                        "Very respectfully yours,

                              "C. D. BATTELLE."

"The publication of the note of Mr. Yeatman, and the first communication received concerning
the colored woman's proposed offering, brought the following letters and contributions, showing
how generously the proposition of Charlotte Scott was responded to by the colored troops stationed
at Natchez, Miss. These contributions have been duly deposited for safe keeping towards the
Freedmen's National Monument to Mr. Lincoln.

         "HEADQUARTERS 6TH U. S. COLORED HEAVY ARTILLERY,

                                "FORT MCPHERSON, Natchez, May 19th, 1865.
     Allow me to say that I feel proud of my regiment for their
     liberal contribution in honor of our lamented chief. Please
     acknowledge receipt.

            "Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

                                     "JOHN P. COLEMAN,

     "Lieutenant-Colonel commanding 6th U. S. Colored Heavy Artillery."

     "Amounts as donated by their respective companies: Company
     A, $515; Company B, $594; Company C, $514; Company D, $464;
     Company E, $199; Company F, $409; Company G, $284; Company
     H, $202; Company I, $423; Company K, $231; Company L, $142;
     Company M, $354. Total, $4,242."

         "HEADQUARTERS 70TH U. S. COLORED INFANTRY,

                      "RODNEY, MISS., May 30th, 1865.

     "Brevet Major-General J. W. Davidson, commanding
          District of Natchez, Miss.:

     "GENERAL: I have the honor to enclose the sum of two
     thousand nine hundred and forty-nine dollars and fifty cents
     as the amount collected, under your suggestion, for the
     purpose of erecting a monument to the memory of President
     Lincoln. Every dollar of this money has been subscribed by
     the black enlisted men of my regiment, which has only an
     aggregate of six hundred and eighty-three men. Much more
     might have been raised, but I cautioned the officers to
     check the noble generosity of my men rather than stimulate
     it. Allow me to add that the soldiers expect that the
     monument is to be built by black people's money exclusively.
     They feel deeply that the debt of gratitude they owe is
     large, and any thing they can do to keep his 'memory green'
     will be done cheerfully and promptly.

     "If there is a monument built proportionate to the
     veneration with which the black people hold his memory, then
     its summit will be among the clouds--the first to catch the
     gleam and herald the approach of coming day, even as
     President Lincoln himself first proclaimed the first gleam
     as well as glorious light of universal freedom.

     "I am, general, most respectfully, your obedient servant,

                                "W. C. EARLES,

     "Colonel 70th United States Colored Infantry."

                        "DISTRICT OF NATCHEZ, May 21st, 1865.

     "Hon. James E. Yeatman:

     "Upon seeing your suggestions in the Democrat I wrote to
     my colonels of colored troops, and they are responding most
     nobly to the call. Farrar's regiment, 6th United States
     Heavy Artillery, sent some $4,700. The money here spoken of
     has been turned over to Major W. C. Lupton, Pay-master U. S.
     A., for you. Please acknowledge receipt through the Missouri
     Democrat. The idea is, that the monument shall be raised
     to Mr. Lincoln's memory at the national capital exclusively
     by the race he has set free.

                "Very truly yours,

                    "J. W. DAVIDSON, Brevet Major-General."

                     "HEAD PAY DEPARTMENT, NATCHEZ, MISS., June 15th, 1865.

     "James E. Yeatman, Esq., President Western Sanitary Commission,
       St. Louis:

     "SIR: The colored soldiers of this district, Brevet
     Major-General Davidson commanding, feeling the great
     obligations they are under to our late president, Mr.
     Lincoln, and desiring to perpetuate his memory, have
     contributed to the erection of a monument at the national
     capital, as follows:

73th. United States Colored Infantry, Colonel W. C. Earle      $2,949.50
Three Companies 63d U. S. Colored Infantry--A, C, and E--
Lieutenant-Colonel Mitchell                                      263.00
Freedmen of Natchez                                              312.38
                                                              ---------
Total                                                         $3,529.85

     "Added to this Major John P. Coleman, of the 6th United
     States Colored Heavy Artillery, (those that Forrest's men
     did not murder at Fort Pillow), stationed here, has sent you
     nearly five thousand dollars for the same fund, and the 57th
     United States Colored Infantry desire me, at the next
     pay-day, to collect one dollar per man, which will swell the
     amount to nearly ten thousand dollars. This is a large
     contribution from not quite seventeen hundred men, and it
     could have been made larger--many of the men donating over
     half their pay, and in some instances the whole of it--but
     it was thought best to limit them.

     "Will you please publish this, that the colored soldiers and
     their friends may know that their money has gone forward,
     and send me a copy of the paper.

             "I am, sir, with regard,

             "W. C. LUPTON, Pay-master United States Navy."

     "These noble contributions are a striking evidence of the
     favor with which this movement is regarded by the colored
     people, and especially the brave soldiers (the Phalanx who
     fought to maintain their freedom) of this oppressed race who
     have been fighting to carry out the proclamation of their
     benefactor, securing them their liberty."

There is still another evidence of the appreciation of freedom by the negro soldiers in their
frugality. After the enlistment of colored troops became general, and they began to receive
pay and bounties, the officers commanding them readily discovered the necessity of providing
a better place for keeping the money paid them than in their pocket-books and in the soldier's
knapsack. Every payday these soldiers would carry sums of money to their officers for safe
keeping, until thousands of dollars were thus deposited, which were often lost in battle. In
August, 1864, General Rufus Saxton, military governor of South Carolina, after mature deliberation
as to the best means to be adopted for the safe keeping of these soldiers' monies, established
a bank in his department. General Butler established a similar one at Norfolk, Va., about the
same time. At the organization of the Freedmen's Savings and Trust company, chartered by act
of Congress, these institutions transferred to the Freedmen's Bank all the monies on deposit
in them, as the war had ceased, and the troops and officers were being mustered out of the
United States service. The Butler Bank at Norfolk in July, 1865, transferred $7,890. In December
the Saxton Bank at Beaufort transferred $170,000. Thus the sum of $177,890, belonging to soldiers
in two departments only, was placed to their credit, subject to their order, in the new national
bank, called into existence by like motives. This bank had branches at these places. Had similar
banks been established in the other departments an enormous sum would have been collected.
The Freedmen's bank, however, took the place of these military banks, and had the confidence
of the soldiers who continued to deposit in its various branches throughout the south. When
that institution collapsed in 1874, of the many millions of dollars deposited in it, it is
estimated that two-thirds of the amount was the savings of the Phalanx. There is now in the
vaults of the national government more than a quarter of a million of dollars belonging to
the Phalanx, held as unclaimed bounty and pay--an ample sum from which to erect a suitable
monument to commemorate the heroic devotion and patriotic endeavor of those who fell in Freedom's
cause. This money doubtless belongs to those who on the battle-fields and in hospitals died
for the country's honor. These are some of the lessons taught by the history of the Black Phalanx.

CHAPTER III.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

The following publications have been of service in the preparation of this volume:

Goodrich's History of the U. S.

The Great Rebellion.--Headley.

Record of the Seventh U. S. C. T.

War of 1812.--Rossiter.

Negro in the Rebellion.--Brown.

Butler in New Orleans--Parton.

American Conflict.--Greeley.

Historical Research.--Livermore.

Record 55th Regt. Mass. Vols.

Patriotism of Colored Americans.

Boys of 61.--Coffin.

Record of 37th U. S. C. T.

History of Virginia.--Magill.

Atlanta.--Cox.

March to the Sea.--Cox.

Lincoln and Slavery.--Arnold.

Ramsey's History of America.

Grimshaw's History of the U. S.

Attack on Petersburg.--Congress.

Fort Pillow Massacre.--Congress.

Campaigns of the Army of the Potomac.--Swinton.

Army Life in a Black Regiment.--Higginson.

Anti-Slavery Measures in Congress.--Wilson.

Principles and Acts of the Revolution.--Niles.

Military History of U. S. Grant.--Badeau.

First and Second Year of the War.--Pollard.

