So, wandering, hoping, trying, waiting, thirty-two years of his life went by, and they left
him true, sympathetic, patient. The sharp private griefs that sting the heart so deeply, and
leave a little poison behind, did not spare him. But he bore everything so bravely, so silently,--often
silent for a whole evening in the midst of pleasant talkers, but not impertinently sad, nor
ever sullen,--that we all loved him a little more at such times. The ill-health from which
he always suffered, and a flower-like delicacy of temperament, the yearning desire to be of
some service in the world, coupled with the curious, critical introspection which marks every
sensitive and refined nature and paralyzes action, overcast his life and manner to the common
eye with pensiveness and even sternness. He wrote verses in which his heart seems to exhale
in a sigh of sadness. But he was not in the least a sentimentalist. The womanly grace of temperament
merely enhanced the unusual manliness of his character and impression. It was like a delicate
carnation upon the cheek of a robust man. For his humor was exuberant. He seldom laughed loud,
but his smile was sweet and appreciative. Then the range of his sympathies was so large, that
he enjoyed every kind of life and person, and was everywhere at home. In walking and riding,
in skating and running, in games out of doors and in, no one of us all in the neighborhood
was so expert, so agile as he. For, above all things, he had what we Yankees call faculty,--the
knack of doing everything. If he rode with a neighbor who was a good horseman, Theodore, who
was a Centaur, when he mounted, would put any horse at any gate or fence; for it did not occur
to him that he could not do whatever was to be done. Often, after writing for a few hours in
the morning, he stepped out of doors, and, from pure love of the fun, leaped and turned summersaults
on the grass, before going up to town. In walking about the island, he constantly stopped by
the roadside fences, and, grasping the highest rail, swung himself swiftly and neatly over
and back again, resuming the walk and the talk without delay.

I do not wish to make him too much a hero. "Death," says Bacon, "openeth the gate to good fame."
When a neighbor dies, his form and quality appear clearly, as if he had been dead a thousand
years. Then we see what we only felt before. Heroes in history seem to us poetic because they
are there. But if we should tell the simple truth of some of our neighbors, it would sound
like poetry. Winthrop was one of the men who represent the manly and poetic qualities that
always exist around us,--not great genius, which is ever salient, but the fine fibre of manhood
that makes the worth of the race.

Closely engaged with his literary employments, and more quiet than ever, he took less active
part in the last election. But when the menace of treason became an aggressive act, he saw
very clearly the inevitable necessity of arms. We all talked of it constantly,--watching the
news,--chafing at the sad necessity of delay, which was sure to confuse foreign opinion and
alienate sympathy, as has proved to be the case. As matters advanced and the war-cloud rolled
up thicker and blacker, he looked at it with the secret satisfaction that war for such a cause
opened his career both as thinker and actor. The admirable coolness, the promptness, the cheerful
patience, the heroic ardor, the intelligence, the tough experience of campaigning, the profound
conviction that the cause was in truth "the good old cause," which was now to come to the death-grapple
with its old enemy, Justice against Injustice, Order against Anarchy,--all these should now
have their turn, and the wanderer and waiter "settle himself" at last.

We took a long walk together on the Sunday that brought the news of the capture of Fort Sumter.
He was thoroughly alive with a bright, earnest forecast of his part in the coming work. Returning
home with me, he sat until late in the evening talking with an unwonted spirit, saying playfully,
I remember, that, if his friends would only give him a horse, he would ride straight to victory.

Especially he wished that some competent person would keep a careful record of events as they
passed; "for we are making our history," he said, "hand over hand." He sat quietly in the great
chair while he spoke, and at last rose to go. We went together to the door, and stood for a
little while upon the piazza, where we had sat peacefully through so many golden summer-hours.
The last hour for us had come, but we did not know it. We shook hands, and he left me, passing
rapidly along the brook-side under the trees, and so in the soft spring starlight vanished
from my sight forever.

The next morning came the President's proclamation. Winthrop went immediately to town and enrolled
himself in the artillery corps of the Seventh Regiment. During the two or three following days
he was very busy and very happy. On Friday afternoon, the 19th of April, I stood at the corner
of Courtland Street and saw the regiment as it marched away. Two days before, I had seen the
Massachusetts troops going down the same street. During the day the news had come that they
were already engaged, that some were already dead in Baltimore. And the Seventh, as they went,
blessed and wept over by a great city, went, as we all believed, to terrible battle. The setting
sun in a clear April sky shone full up the street. Mothers' eyes glistened at the windows upon
the glistening bayonets of their boys below. I knew that Winthrop and other dear friends were
there, but I did not see them. I saw only a thousand men marching like one hero. The music
beat and rang and clashed in the air. Marching to death or victory or defeat, it mattered not.
They marched for Justice, and God was their captain.

From that moment he has told his own story in these pages until he went to Fortress Monroe,
and was made acting military secretary and aid by General Butler. Before he went, he wrote
the most copious and gayest letters from the camp. He was thoroughly aroused, and all his powers
happily at play. In a letter to me soon after his arrival in Washington, he says,--

"I see no present end of this business. We must conquer the South. Afterward we must be prepared
to do its police in its own behalf, and in behalf of its black population, whom this war must,
without precipitation, emancipate. We must hold the South as the metropolitan police holds
New York. All this is inevitable. Now I wish to enroll myself at once in the Police of the
Nation, and for life, if the nation will take me. I do not see that I can put myself--experience
and character--to any more useful use..... My experience in this short campaign with the Seventh
assures me that volunteers are for one purpose and regular soldiers entirely another. We want
regular soldiers for the cause of order in these anarchical countries, and we want men in command
who, though they may be valuable as temporary satraps or proconsuls to make liberty possible
where it is now impossible, will never under any circumstances be disloyal to Liberty, will
always oppose any scheme of any one to constitute a military government, and will be ready,
when the time comes, to imitate Washington. We must think of these things, and prepare for
them..... Love to all the dear friends..... This trip has been all a lark to an old tramper
like myself."

Later he writes,--

