NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

PRESERVED MEATS AND MEAT-BISCUITS.

The many-headed public look out for 'nine days' wonders,' and speedily allow one wonder to
obliterate the remembrance of that which preceded it. So it is with all newspaper topics, and
so it has been in respect to the preserved-meat question. We all know how great was the excitement
at the commencement of the present year on this matter. Ships' accounts overhauled; arctic
stores re-examined; canisters opened and rejected; contracts inquired into; statements and
counter-statements published; questionings of Admiralty officials in the two Houses of Parliament;
reports published by committees; recommendations offered for future guidance; descriptions
of the preserving processes at different establishments: all went the round of the newspapers,
and then the topic was forgotten. It deserves to be held in remembrance, however, for the subject-matter
is really important and valuable, in respect not only to the stores for shipping, but to the
provisioning of large or small bodies of men under various exceptional circumstances.

A few of the simple laws of organic chemistry suffice to account for the speedy decay of dead
animal substances, and for the methods whereby this decay is retarded or prevented. In organised
substances, the chemical atoms combine in a very complex but unstable way; several such atoms
group together to form a proximate principle, such as gluten, albumen, fibrin, &c.; and several
of these combine to form a complete organic substance. The chemical rank-and-file, so to speak,
form a battalion, and two or more battalions form the chemical army. But it is a law in chemistry,
that the more complex a substance becomes, the less stable is its constitution, or the sooner
is it affected by disturbing influences. Hence organic substances are more readily decomposed
than inorganic. How striking, for instance, are the changes easily wrought in a few grains
of barley! They contain a kind of starch or fecula; this starch, in the process of malting,
becomes converted into a kind of sugar; and from this malt-sugar or transformed starch, may
be obtained ale or beer, gin or whisky, and vinegar, by various processes of fermenting and
distilling. The complex substance breaks up through very slight causes, and the simple elements
readjust themselves into new groupings. The same occurs in animal as in vegetable substances,
but still more rapidly, as the former are more intricate in composition than the latter, and
are held together by a weaker tie.

What the 'vital principle' may be, neither chemists nor physiologists can tell us with any
great degree of clearness; but it is this vital principle, whatever it may be, which prevents
decay in a living organic substance, however complex. When life departs, the onslaught begins;
the defender has been removed, and a number of assailants make their appearance. Air, heat,
and moisture are the principal of these; they attack the dead organism, and gradually convert
it into wholly different and inorganic compounds, such as water, carbonic acid, ammonia, phosphuretted
hydrogen, and many others. What, then, would result if these disturbers could be warded off,
one or all? It is now pretty well ascertained, that if any one of the three--air, heat, moisture--be
absent, the decay is either greatly retarded or indefinitely postponed; and we shall find that
in all antiseptic or preserving processes, the fundamental principle has simply such an object
in view.

Sometimes the operation of natural causes leads to the preservation of dead animal substances
for a great length of time, by excluding one out of the above three disturbing influences.
If heat be so deficient that the animal juices become wholly frozen up, the substance is almost
proof against decay. Thus, about seventy years ago, a huge animal was found imbedded in the
ice in Siberia: from a comparison of its skeleton with those of existing species, Cuvier inferred
that this animal must have been antediluvian; and yet, so completely had the cold prevented
putrefaction, that dogs willingly ate of the still existing flesh. At St Petersburg, when winter
is approaching, the fish in the markets become almost like blocks of ice, so completely are
they frozen; and in this state they will remain sound for a lengthened period. Dead poultry,
and other articles of animal food, are similarly kept fresh throughout the winter in many rigorous
climates, simply by the powerlessness of the attacking agents, when heat is not one of the
number. And that which nature effects on a large scale, may reasonably be imitated by man on
a more limited one. It is customary to pack many kinds of provisions in ice or snow, either
for keeping them in storehouses, or for sending them to market. Thus it is with the tubs of
poultry, of veal, and of other kinds of meat, which, killed in the country districts of Russia
in autumn, are packed in snow to keep cool till sold at market; and thus it is with much of
the salmon sent from Scotland to London. Since the supply of excellent ice from Wenham Lake,
commenced about nineteen years ago, has become so abundant and so cheap, it is worth a thought
whether the preservative powers of cold might not advantageously be made more available in
this country than they have yet been. In the United States, housewives use very convenient
refrigerators or ice-boxes, provided with perforated shelves, under which ice is set, and upon
which various provisions are placed: a large uncooked joint of meat is sometimes kept in one
of these boxes for weeks. Among the celebrities of the Crystal Palace, many will recollect
Masters's elegant ice-making machine, in which, by combining chemical action with centrifugal
motion, ice can be made in a few minutes, let the heat of the weather be what it may. This
machine, and the portable refrigerators manufactured by the Wenham Company, together with our
familiar, old-fashioned ice-houses, might supply us with much more preservative power, in respect
to articles of food, than we have hitherto practically adopted.

If, instead of watching the effects produced by abstraction of heat, we direct attention to
the abstraction of moisture, we shall find that antiseptic or preservative results are easily
obtainable. All kinds of bacon and smoked meats belong to the class here indicated. The watery
particles are nearly or quite driven out from the meat, and thus one of the three decomposing
agents is rendered of no effect. In some cases, the drying is not sufficient to produce the
result, without the aid of the remarkable antiseptic properties of salt; because decomposition
may commence before the moisture is quite expelled. In many parts of the country, hams are
hung within a wide-spreading chimney, over or near a turf-fire, and where a free current of
air, as well as a warm temperature, may act upon them; but the juices become dissipated by
this rude process. Simple drying, without the addition of salt or any condiment, is perhaps
more effectual with vegetable than with animal substances.

But it is under the third point of view that the preservative process is more important and
interesting, inasmuch as it admits of a far more extensive application. We speak of the abstraction
of air. Atmospheric air affects dead organic matter chiefly through the agency of the oxygen
which forms one of its constituents; and it is principally to insure the expulsion of oxygen
that air is excluded. The examples which illustrate the resulting effects are numerous and
varied. Eggs have been varnished so as to exclude air, and have retained the vital principle
in the chick for years; and it is a familiar domestic practice, to butter the outside of eggs
as a means of keeping them. The canisters of preserved provisions, however, are the most direct
and valuable result of the antiseptic action by exclusion of air. The Exhibition Jury on Class
3, in their Report on this subject, speak thus warmly thereupon:--'It is impossible to overestimate
the importance of these preparations. The invention of the process by which animal and vegetable
food is preserved in a fresh and sweet state for an indefinite period, has only been applied
practically during the last twenty-five years, and is intimately connected with the annals
of arctic discovery. The active measures taken to discover a north-west passage, and to prosecute
scientific research, in all but inaccessible regions, first created a demand for this sort
of food; and the Admiralty stimulated the manufacturers to great perfection in the art. As
soon as the value of these preparations in cold climates became generally admitted, their use
was extended to hot ones, and for the sick on board ship under all circumstances. Hitherto
they had been employed only as a substitute for salt beef or pork at sea, and if eaten on shore,
it was at first as a curiosity merely. Their utility in hot climates, however, speedily became
evident; especially in India, where European families are scattered, and where, consequently,
on the slaughter of a large animal, more is wasted than can be consumed by a family of the
ordinary number.'

Whatever improvements may have been introduced by later manufacturers, the principle involved
in the meat-preserving processes is nearly as M. Appert established it forty years ago. His
plan consisted in removing the bones from the meat; boiling it to nearly as great a degree
as if intended for immediate consumption; putting it into jars; filling up the jars completely
with a broth or jelly prepared from portions of the same meat; corking the jars closely; incasing
the corks with a luting formed of quicksilver and cheese; placing the corked jars in a boiler
of cold water; boiling the water and its contents for an hour; and then allowing the cooling
process to supervene very gradually.

Until the recent disclosures concerning the preserved meats in the government depôts, the extent
of the manufacture, or rather preparation, was very little known to the general public. In
the last week of 1851, an examination, consequent on certain suspicions which had been entertained,
was commenced at the victualling establishment at Gosport. The canisters--for since Appert's
time stone jars have been generally superseded by tin canisters--contain on an average about
10 pounds each; and out of 643 of these which were opened on the first day's examination, no
fewer than 573 were condemned as being utterly unfit for food. On the next day, 734 were condemned
out of 779; and by the fourth day, the number examined had risen to 2707, of which only 197
were deemed fit for food. Such wretched offal had been packed in the canisters, instead of
good meat, that the stench arising from the decomposing mass was most revolting; the examiners
were compelled to use Sir William Burnett's disinfecting fluid abundantly, and even to suspend
their labours for two or three days under fear of infection. The canisters formed part of a
supply sent in by a contractor in November 1850, under a warrant that the contents would remain
good for five years; the filling of the canisters was understood to have been effected at Galatz,
in Moldavia, but the contractor was in England. The supply amounted to 6000 canisters, all
of which had to be examined, and out of which only a few hundred were found to contain substances
fit for food. Instead of good meat, or in addition to a small quantity of good meat, the examiners
found lung, liver, heart, tongue, kidney, tendon, ligament, palate, fat, tallow, coagulated
blood, and even a piece of leather--all in a state of such loathsome putridity as to render
the office of the examiners a terrible one.

Of course nothing can be predicated from such atrocities as these against the wholesomeness
of preserved food; they prove only the necessity of caution in making the government contracts,
and in accepting the supplies. The Admiralty shewed, during subsequent discussions, that large
supplies had been received from various quarters for several years, for use on shipboard in
long voyages and on arctic expeditions; that these had turned out well; and that the contractor
who was disgraced in the present instance, was among those who had before fulfilled his contracts
properly. Fortunately, there is no evidence that serious evil had resulted from the supply
of the canisters to ships; the discovery was made in time to serve as a useful lesson in future
to government officials and to unprincipled contractors.

The jury report before adverted to, points out how cheap and economical these preserved meats
really are, from the circumstance, that all that is eatable is so well brought into use. It
is affirmed by the manufacturers, that meat in this form supplies troops and ships with a cheaper
animal diet than salt provisions, by avoiding the expense of casks, leakage, brine, bone, shrinkage,
stowage, &c., which are all heavy items, and entail great waste and expenditure; and by a canister
of the former being so much smaller than a cask of the latter, in the event of one bad piece
of meat tainting the whole contents. The contents of all the cases, when opened, are found
to have lost much of the freshness in taste and flavour peculiar to newly-killed meat; they
are always soft, and eat as if overdone. As a matter of choice, therefore, few or no persons
would prefer meat in this state to the ordinary unpacked and recently-cooked state. But the
important fact to bear in mind is, that the nutritious principles are preserved; as nutriment,
they are unexceptionable, and they are often pleasantly seasoned and flavoured.

In the ordinary processes of preparation, as carried on in London and other places, the tin
canisters have a minute hole, through which the air may be expelled, while the meat is simmering
or boiling within; and in the case of poultry being preserved whole, extra precautions are
necessary, to insure the expulsion of the air from the hollow bones of the birds. Soups are
more easily prepared than solid meat, on account of the greater facility for getting rid of
the confined air. The minute air-hole in the canister is soldered down when the process is
completed.

M. Alexis Soyer, who has a notoriety in London as the prince of cooks, and a very ingenious
man--a sort of Paxton of the kitchen--wrote to the daily journals, about the time of the disclosure
at Gosport, to offer a few suggestions. He said: 'No canister ought to contain more than about
six pounds of meat, the same to be very slightly seasoned with bay-salt, pepper, and aromatic
herbs in powder, such as bay-thyme and bay-leaf, a small quantity of which would not be objectionable
even for invalids. No jelly should be added to the meat; the meat, and the meat alone, should
produce its own jelly. With the bones and trimmings of the above, a good stock should be made
without vegetables, well reduced and skimmed, to form a very strong transparent demi-glaze;
six-pound canisters should be filled with the same, bearing a special mark, and one of these
allowed to every dozen of the others. This demi-glaze, when diluted in water, would make six
gallons of very good broth, with which any kind of soup could be made in a very short time.'
He also points out how the condition of the preserved meat may be guessed by the external appearance
of the canister. If either the top or bottom of the canister be convex, like the upper surface
of a watch-glass, the contents are in a state of decomposition; the bulging being occasioned
by the gases generated during the chemical changes. If the contents of the canister be sound,
the top and bottom will be either quite flat, or slightly concave.

The Jury on Food, at the Great Exhibition, had quite an embarras des richesses; they were surrounded
by hundreds of canisters of preserved provisions, all of which they were invited to open and
taste. They say, or their reporter says, that the merits of the contributions 'were tested
by a selection from each; the cases were opened in the presence of the jury, and tasted by
themselves, and, where advisable, by associates. The majority are of English manufacture, especially
the more substantial viands; France and Germany exhibiting chiefly made-dishes, game, and delicacies--of
meat, fish, soups, and vegetables.' It is an important fact for our colonies, that viands of
this description are as well prepared in Australia, Van Diemen's Land, Canada, and the Cape
of Good Hope, as in the mother-country. 'Animal food is most abundant and cheap in some of
those colonies. In Australia, especially, during seasons of drought, it is wasted in extraordinary
quantities; flocks are slaughtered for the tallow alone, and herds, for their bones and hides.
Were the meat on these occasions preserved, it cannot be doubted that it could be imported
into England, and sold at a cheaper rate than fresh meat in our metropolitan markets, to the
great benefit of the lower-classes.' This is a statement well worth being borne in mind by
some of those who are at present dazzled with gold-digging wonders.

In respect to the preserved meats at the Great Exhibition, many were merely cured or dried
meats. From Canada, for instance, they comprised hams, bacon, tongues, and barrels of beef
and pork. Among the miscellaneous contributions were grated beef, canisters of fresh salmon,
'admirable boiled mutton in tin cases,' dried mullets, 'mouton rôti,' fish, meats preserved
in a fresh state by simple drying--on a plan practised in Switzerland--and preserved larks.
Not the least remarkable was a preserved pig, which reclined in all its glory on the floor
of the south-west gallery, and was a successful example of curing on a large scale. Still more
striking than this, was the large partridge-pie, placed somewhat out of general notice in the
'Netherlands' department; a formidable pie it truly was, for it contained 150 partridges, with
truffles, and weighed 250 pounds: it had been made a year before it was forwarded to London.
But among the contributions more immediately relating to our present subject, may be mentioned
those of Mr Gamble, which comprised, among others, a canister of preserved boiled mutton, which
had been prepared for the arctic expedition in 1824; many such canisters were landed at Fury
Beach in Prince Regent's Inlet; they were found by Sir John Ross at that spot in 1833 in a
perfect state, and again by Sir James Ross in 1849, the meat being as sweet and wholesome as
when prepared a quarter of a century before.

The range of these preserving processes is singularly wide and varied. If we take the trade-list
of one of the manufacturers, such as that of Messrs Hogarth of Aberdeen, and glance through
it, we shall find ample evidence of this. There are nearly twenty kinds of soups selling at
about 2s. per quart-canister. There is the concentrated essence of beef, much more expensive,
because containing the nutriment of so much more meat; and there are, for invalids, concentrated
broths of intermediate price. There are about a dozen kinds of fish, some fresh and some dried.
There are various kinds of poultry, roast and boiled; hare, roast and jugged; and venison,
hashed and minced. There are beef, veal, and mutton, all dressed in various ways, and some
having the requisite vegetables canistered with them, at prices varying from l0d. to 15d. per
pound. There are tongues, hams, bacon, kidneys, tripe, and marrow; and there are cream, milk,
and marmalade. Lastly, there are such vegetables as peas, beans, carrots, turnips, cabbage,
and beet, at 6d. to 1s. per pound-canister. The canisters for all these various provisions
contain from one pound to six pounds each. It was Messrs Hogarth, we believe, who supplied
the preserved meats and vegetables to the arctic ships under Sir E. Belcher which sailed in
the spring of 1852.

M. Brocchière, a French manufacturer, has lately extended these economical processes so far,
as to attempt to produce concentrated food from the blood of cattle. He dries up the liquid
or serous portions of the blood, and forms into a cake, with admixture of other substances,
the coagulable portion, which contains fibrin, the source of flesh and muscle. Unless a more
delicate name could be given to this preparation, prejudice would have some influence in depriving
it of the chance of fair play. The dry blood is in some cases combined with a small portion
of flour, and made into light dry masses, like loaves or cakes, to be used as the basis of
soups; while in other cases it is combined with sugar, to make sweet biscuits and bon-bons.
Another kind of preserved animal fluid is the ozmazome, prepared by Messrs Warriner and Soyer.
This consists of the nutritious matter or juice of meat, set free during the operation of boiling
down fat for tallow in Australia; it is afterwards concentrated, and preserved in the form
of sausages. A great amount of nutriment is thus obtained in a portable form; when boiled with
gelatine, it forms a palatable diet, and it is also used to form a gravy for meat.

Masson's method of preserving vegetables seems to be very effective, as applied to white and
red cabbages, turnips, Brussels sprouts, and such like. The process, as conducted in France,
is very simple. The vegetables are dried at a certain temperature (104 to 118 degrees Fahrenheit),
sufficient to expel the moisture without imparting a burnt taste; and in this operation they
lose nearly seven-eighths of their original weight. The vegetables are then pressed forcibly
into the form of cakes, and are kept in tinfoil till required for use. These vegetables require,
when about to be eaten, rather more boiling than those in the ordinary state. Some of the French
ships of war are supplied with them, much to the satisfaction of the crews. Dr Lindley has
stated, on the authority of a distinguished officer in the antarctic expedition under Sir James
Ross, that although all the preserved meats used on that occasion were excellent, and there
was not the slightest ground for any complaint of their quality, the crew became tired of the
meat, but never of the vegetables. 'This should shew us,' says Dr Lindley, 'that it is not
sufficient to supply ships' crews with preserved meats, but that they should be supplied with
vegetables also, the means of doing which is now afforded.' Generally speaking, the flavour
of preserved vegetables, whether prepared on Masson's or on any other process, is fresher than
that of the meats--especially in the case of those which abound in the saccharine principle,
as beet, carrot, turnips, &c. The more farinaceous vegetables, such as green peas, do not preserve
so well.

