 A preacher of the Word, a professor of morality, a minister
of Charity, a guide and dispenser of spiritual life, he taught a theory of the world, at once
consoling and self-denying, which he enforced with a cult, and this cult was the only one adapted
to his flock; manifestly, the French, especially those devoted to manual and hard labor, could
not regard this world as ideal, except through his formulas; history, the supreme judge, had
on this point rendered its verdict without appeal; no heresy, no schism, not the Reformation
nor Jansenism, had prevailed against hereditary faith; through infinitely multiplied and deeply
penetrating roots this faith suited national customs, temperament, and peculiar social imagination
and sensibility. Possessing the heart, the intellect, and even the senses, through fixed, immemorial
traditions and habits, it had become an unconscious, almost corporeal necessity, and the Catholic
orthodox curé, in communion with the Pope, was about as indispensable to the village as the
public fountain; he also quenched thirst, the thirst of the soul; without him, the inhabitants
could find no drinkable water. And, if we keep human weaknesses in mind, it may be said that
nobleness of character in the clergy corresponded with nobleness of profession; in all points
no one could dispute their capacity for self-sacrifice, for they willingly suffered for what
they believed to be the truth. If, in 1790, a number of priests took the oath to the civil
constitution of the clergy, it was with reservations, or because they deemed the oath licit;
but, after the dismissal of the bishops and the Pope's disapprobation, many of them withdrew
it at the risk of their lives, so as not to fall into schism; they fell back into the ranks
and gave themselves up voluntarily to the brutality of the crowd and the rigors of the law.
Moreover, and from the start, notwithstanding threats and temptations, two-thirds of the clergy
would not take the oath; in the highest ranks, among the mundane ecclesiastics whose skepticism
and laxity were notorious, honor, in default of faith, maintained the same spirit; nearly the
whole of them, great and small, had subordinated their interests, welfare and security to the
maintenance of their dignity or to scruples of conscience. They had allowed themselves to be
stripped of everything; they let themselves be exiled, imprisoned, tortured and made martyrs
of, like the Christians of the primitive church; through their invincible meekness, they were
going, like the primitive Christians, to exhaust the rage of their executioners, wear out persecutions,
transform opinion and compel the admission, even with those who survived in the eighteenth
century, that they were true, deserving and courageous men.

V. The Bourgeoisie.

     Where recruited.--Difference between the functionary of the
     ancient regime and the modern functionary.--Appointments
     seen as Property.--Guilds.--Independence and security of
     office-holders.--Their ambitions are limited and satisfied.
     --Fixed habits, seriousness and integrity.--Ambition to
     secure esteem.--Intellectual culture.--Liberal ideas.
     --Respectability and public zeal.--Conduct of the bourgeoisie
     in 1789-1791.

Below the nobles and the clergy, a third class of notables, the bourgeoisie, almost entirely
confined to the towns,[4174] verged on the former classes through its upper circles, while
its diverse groups, ranging from the parliamentarian to the rich merchant or manufacturer,
comprised the remainder of those who were tolerably well educated, say 100 000 families, recruited
on the same conditions as the bourgeoisie of the present day: they were "bourgeois living nobly,"
meaning by this, living on their incomes, large manufacturers and traders, engaged in liberal
pursuits-lawyers, notaries, procureurs, physicians, architects, engineers, artists, professors,
and especially the government officials; the latter, however, very numerous, differed from
ours in two essential points. On the one hand, their office, as nowadays with the notaries'
étude, or a membership of the stock-board, was personal property. Their places, and many others,
such as posts in the judiciary, in the finances, in bailiwicks, in the Présidial, in the Election,[4175]
in the salt-department, in the customs, in the Mint, in the department of forests and streams,
in presidencies, in councils, as procureurs du roi in various civil, administrative and criminal
courts, holding places in the treasury, auditors and collectors of the various branches of
the revenue--all of which offices, and many others, had been alienated for more than a century
by the State in return for specified sums of ready money; thenceforth, they fell into the hands
of special purchasers; the title of each possessor was as good as that of a piece of real property,
and he could legally sell his title, the same as he had bought it, at a given price, on due
advertisement![4176] On the other hand, the different groups of local functionaries in each
town formed their own associations, similar to our notarial chambers, or those of our stock-brokers;
these small associations had their own by-laws, meetings and treasury, frequently a civil status
and the right of pleading, often a political status and the right of electing to the municipal
council;[4177] consequently, besides his personal interests, each member cherished the professional
interests of his guild. Thus was his situation different from what it now is, and, through
a natural reaction, his character, manners and tastes were different. First, he was much more
independent; he was not afraid of being discharged or transferred elsewhere, suddenly, unawares,
on the strength of an intendant's report, for political reasons, to make room for a deputy's
candidate or a minister's tool. This would have cost too much it would have required first
of all a reimbursement of the sum paid for his office, and at a rate of purchase ten times,
at least, the revenue of the office.[4178] Besides, in defending himself, in protesting against
and forestalling his disgrace, he would have been supported by his entire professional guild,
oftentimes by other similar bodies, and frequently by the whole town, filled with his relations,
clients and comrades. The entire hive protected the bee against the caprices of favoritism
and the brutalities of despotism. At Paris, a certain procureur, supported by his colleagues,
is known to have imposed on a noble who had insulted him, the most humiliating atonement.[4179]
In fact, under the ancient régime, it was almost impossible for a functionary to be removed;
hence, he could fulfill his duties securely and with dignity, without being obliged to keep
daily watch of the capital, of going to Paris to see how the official wind blew, to look after
all the influences in his favor, to nurse his relations with the government and live like a
bird on a branch.--In the second place, there was a limit to his ambition; he did not keep
constantly thinking of mounting a step higher in the hierarchy; or how to pass from a small
town to a large one and hold on to his title; this would have been a too troublesome and complicated
matter; he would first have had to find a purchaser and then sell his place, and next find
a seller and buy another at a higher price; a stock broker at Bordeaux, a notary at Lyons,
is not an aspirant for the post of stock broker or notary at Paris.--Nothing then bore any
resemblance to the itinerant groups of functionaries of the present day which, in obedience
to orders from above, travels about governing each of our towns, strangers on the wing, with
no personal standing, without local landed property, interests or means, encamped in some hired
apartment, often in a furnished room, sometimes stopping at a hotel, eternal nomads awaiting
a telegram, always prepared to pack up and leave for another place a hundred leagues off in
consideration of a hundred crowns extra pay, and doing the same detached work over again. Their
predecessor, belonging to the country, was a stable fixture and contented; he was not tormented
by a craving for promotion; he had a career within the bounds of his corporation and town;
cherishing no wish or idea of leaving it, he accommodated himself to it; he became proud of
his office and professional brethren, and rose above the egoism of the individual; his self-love
was bent on maintaining every prerogative and interest belonging to his guild. Established
for life in his native town, in the midst of old colleagues, numerous relatives and youthful
companions, he esteemed their good opinion. Exempt from vexatious or burdensome taxes, tolerably
well off, owning at least his own office, he was above sordid preoccupations and common necessities.
Used to old fashioned habits of simplicity, soberness and economy, he was not tormented by
a disproportion between his income and expenses, by the requirements of show and luxury, by
the necessity of annually adding to his revenue.--Thus guided and free, the instincts of vanity
and generosity, the essence of French character, took the ascendant; the councilor or comptroller,
the King's agent, regarded himself as a man above the common run, as a noble of the Third-Estate;
he thought less of making money than of gaining esteem; his chief desire was to be honored
and honorable; "he passed life comfortably and was looked up to,... in the discharge of his
duty,... with no other ambition than to transmit to his children.... along with their inheritance
an unsullied reputation."[4180] Among the other groups of the bourgeoisie the same corporate
system, the same settled habits, the same security, the same frugality, the same institutions,
the same customs,[4181] promoted the growth of nearly the same sentiments, while the intellectual
culture of these men was not insignificant. Having leisure, they were given to reading; as
they were not overwhelmed with newspapers they read books worth reading; I have found in old
libraries in the provinces, in the houses of the descendants of a manufacturer or lawyer in
a small town, complete editions of Voltaire, Rousseau, Montesquieu, Buffon and Condillac, with
marks in each volume showing that the volume had been read by someone in the house before the
close of the eighteenth century. Nowhere else, likewise, had all that was sound and liberal
in the philosophy of the eighteenth century found such a welcome; it is from this class that
the patriots of 1789 were recruited; it had furnished not only the majority of the Constituent
Assembly, but again all the honest men who, from July, 1789 to the end of 1791 performed their
administrative duties so disinterestedly, and with such devotion and zeal, amidst so many difficulties,
dangers and disappointments. Composed of Feuillants or Monarchists, possessing such types of
men as Huez of Troyes or Dietrich of Strasbourg, and for representatives such leaders as Lafayette
and Bailly, it comprised the superior intelligence and most substantial integrity of the Third-Estate.
It is evident that, along with the nobles and clergy, the best fruits of history were gathered
in it, and most of the mental and moral capital accumulated, not only by the century, but,
again, by preceding centuries.

VI. The Demi-notables.

     Where recruited.--Village and trade syndics.--Competency of
     their electors.--Their interest in making good selections.
     --Their capacity and integrity.--The sorting of men under the
     ancient regime.--Conditions of a family's maintenance and
     advancement.--Hereditary and individual right of the Notable
     to his property and rank.

Like a fire lit on a hilltop overlooking a cold and obscure countryside, a civilization, kept
alive with much expense on peaks in a sea of human barbarity, radiating while its rays grow
dim; its light and warmth fading just as its gleams reach remoter and deeper strata. Nevertheless,
both penetrate yet sufficiently far and deep before wholly dying out. If we want to appraise
their power in France at the close of the eighteenth century we must add to the notables the
half-notables of society, namely, the men who, like the people, were devoted to manual labor,
but who, among the people, led the way, say one hundred and fifty thousand families, consisting
of well-to-do farmers, small rural proprietors, shopkeepers, retailers, foremen and master-workmen,
village syndics and guild syndics,[4182] those who were established and had some capital, owning
a plot of land and a house, with a business or stock of tools, and a set of customers, that
is to say, with something ahead and credit, not being obliged to live from hand to mouth, and
therefore, beginning to be independent and more influential, in short, the overseers of the
great social work-house, the sergeants and corporals of the social army.--They, too, were not
unworthy of their rank. In the village or trade community, the syndic, elected by his equals
and neighbors, was not blindly nominated; all his electors in relation to him were competent;
if peasants, they had seen him turning up the soil; if blacksmiths or joiners, they had seen
him at work in his forge, or at the bench. And, as their direct, present and obvious interests
were concerned, they chose him for the best, not on the strength of a newspaper recommendation,
in deference to a vague declamatory platform or sounding, empty phrases, but according to their
personal experiences, and the thorough knowledge they had of him. The man sent by the village
to represent them to the intendant and selected by the guild to sit in the town council, was
its most capable, and most creditable man, one of those, probably, who, through his application,
intelligence, honesty and economy, had proved the most prosperous, some master-workman or farmer
that had gained experience through long years of assiduity, familiar with details and precedents,
of good judgment and repute, more interested than anybody else in supporting the interests
of the community and with more leisure than others to attend to public affairs.[4183] This
man, through the nature of things, imposed himself on the attention, confidence, and deference
of his peers, and, because he was their natural representative, he was their legal representative.

Upon the whole, if, in this old society, the pressure was unequally distributed, if the general
equilibrium was unstable, if the upper parts bore down too heavily on the lower ones, the sorting,
at least, which goes on in every civilized State, constantly separating the wheat from the
chaff, went on tolerably well; except at the center and at the Court, where the winnowing machine
had worked haphazard and, frequently, in an opposite sense for a century, the separation proceeded
regularly, undoubtedly slower, but, perhaps, more equitably than in our contemporary democracy.
The chance that a notable by right could become a notable de facto was then much greater: it
was less difficult, and the inclination to found, maintain and perpetuate a family or a business
was much stronger; people looked more often beyond themselves; the eyes naturally turned outside
the narrow circle of one's personality, looking backward as well as beyond this present life.
The (later) institution of an equal partition of property, the (later) system of obligatory
partition and the rule of partition in kind, with other prescriptions of the (new) civil code,
did not split up an heritage and ruin the home.[4184] Parental negligence and the children's
lack of respect and consideration had not yet upset the authority and abolished respect in
the family. Useful and natural associations were not yet stifled in the germ nor arrested in
their development by the systematic hostility of the law. The ease and cheapness of transportation,
the promiscuity of schools, the excitement of competition, everyone's rush to placement and
office, the increasing excitement of ambition and greed, had not (yet) immeasurably multiplied
the class of irresponsible malcontents and mischievous nomads. In the political order of things,
inaptitude, envy, brutality were not sovereign; universal suffrage did not exclude from power
the men, born, bred and qualified to exercise it; countless public posts were not offered as
a prey to charlatanism and to the intrigues of politicians. France was not then, as now-a-days,
on a way to become a vast lodging-house administered by casual managers, condemned to periodical
failures, inhabited by anonymous residents, indifferent to each other, lacking local ties,
lacking engagements and having no corporate loyalties, merely tenants and passing consumers,
placed in numerical order around a common mess-table where each thinks only of himself, gets
served quickly, consumes what he can lay his hands on, and ends by finding out that, in a place
of this sort, the best condition, the wisest course, is to put all one's property into an annuity
and live a bachelor.--Formerly, among all classes and in all the provinces, there were a large
number of families that had taken root on the spot, living there a hundred years and more.
Not only among the nobles, but among the bourgeoisie and the Third-Estate, the heir of any
enterprise was expected to continue his calling. This was so with the seignorial chateau and
extensive domain, as with the bourgeois dwelling and patrimonial office, the humble rural domain,
farm, shop and factory, all were transmitted intact from one generation to another.[4185] Great
or small, the individual was not exclusively interested in himself; his thoughts also traveled
forward to the future and back to the past, on the side of ancestors and on that of descendants,
along the endless chain of which his own life was but a link; he possessed traditions, he felt
bound to set examples. Under this twofold title, his domestic authority was uncontested;[4186]
his household and all his employees followed his instructions without swerving and without
resistance. When, by virtue of this domestic discipline, a family had maintained itself upright
and respected on the same spot for a century, it could easily advance a degree; it could introduce
one of its members into the upper class, pass from the plow or trade to petty offices, and
from these to the higher ones and to parliamentary dignities, from the four thousand posts
that ennoble to the legalized nobility, from the lately made nobles to the old nobility. Apart
from the two or three thousand gilded drones living on the public honey at Versailles, apart
from the court parasites and their valets, three or four hundred thousand notables and half-notables
of France thus acquired and kept their offices, consideration and fortune; they were therefore
their legitimate possessors. The peasant-proprietor and master-artisan had risen from father
to son, at four o'clock in the morning, toiled all day and never drank. From father to son,
the trader, notary, lawyer and office-holder, had been careful, economical, skillful and attentive
to business, correct in their papers, precise in their accounts. From father to son, the nobleman
had served bravely, the parliamentarian had judged equitably, as a point of honor, with a salary
inferior to the interest of the sum paid by him to acquire his rank or post. Each of these
men received no more than his due; his possessions and his rank were the savings of his ascendants,
the price of social services rendered by the long file of deserving dead, all that his ancestors,
his father and himself had created or preserved of any stable value; each piece of gold that
remained in the hereditary purse represented the balance of a lifetime, the enduring labor
of some one belonging to his line, while among these gold pieces, he himself had provided his
share.--For, personal services counted, even among the upper nobility; and all the more among
the lower class, in the Third-Estate, and among the people. Among the notables of every degree
just described, most of them, in 1789, were fully grown men, many of them mature, a goodly
number advanced in years, and some quite aged; consequently, in justification of his rank and
emoluments, or of his gains and his fortune, each could allege fifteen, twenty, thirty and
forty years of labor and honorability in private or public situations, the grand-vicar of the
diocese as well as the chief-clerk of the ministry, the intendant of the généralité as well
as the president of the royal tribunal, the village curé, the noble officer, the office-holder,
the lawyer, the procureur, the large manufacturer, the wholesale dealer, as well as the well-to-do
farmer, and the well-known handicraftsman.--Thus, not only were they an élite corps, the most
valuable portion of the nation, the best timber of the forest, but again, the wood of each
branch belonged to that trunk; it grew there, and was the product of its own vegetation; it
sprung out of the trunk wholly through the unceasing and spontaneous effort of the native sap,
through time-honored and recent labor, and, on this account, it merited respect.--Through a
double onslaught, at once against each human branch and against the entire French forest, the
Jacobin wood-choppers seek to clear the ground. Their theory results in this precept, that
not one of the noble trees of this forest, not one valuable trunk from the finest oak to the
smallest sapling, should be left standing.

VII. Principle of socialist Equality.

     All superiorities of rank are illegitimate.--Bearing of this
     principle.--Incivique benefits and enjoyments.--How
     revolutionary laws reach the lower class.--Whole populations
     affected in a mass.--proportion of the lowly in the
     proscription lists. How the revolutionary laws specially
     affect those who are prominent among the people.

Not that the ravages which they make stop there! The principle extended far beyond that. The
fundamental rule, according to Jacobin maxims, is that every public or private advantage which
any citizen enjoys and which is not enjoyed by another citizen, is illegitimate.--On Ventôse
19, year II., Henriot, general in command, having surrounded the Palais Royal and made a sweep
of "suspects," renders an account of his expedition as follows:[4187] "One hundred and thirty
muscadins have been arrested.... These gentlemen are transferred to the Petits-Pêres. Being
well-fed and plump, they cannot be sans-culottes." Henriot was right, for, to live well is
incivique. Whoever lays in stores of provisions is criminal, even if he has gone a good ways
for them, even if he has not overpaid the butcher of his quarter, even if he has not diminished
by an ounce of meat the ration of his neighbor; when he is found out, he is punished and his
hoard confiscated. "A citizen[4188] had a little pig brought to him from a place six leagues
from Paris, and killed it at once. Three hours afterwards, the pig was seized by commissioners
and distributed among the people, without the owner getting a bit of it;" moreover, the said
owner "was imprisoned."--He is a monopolist! To Jacobin people, to empty stomachs, there is
no greater crime; this misdeed, to their imaginations, explains the arrest of Hébert, their
favorite: "It is said at the Halle (the covered Paris market)[4189] that he has monopolized
a brother of the order of Saint-Antoine[4190] as well as a pot of twenty-five pounds of Brittany
butter," which is enough; they immediately and "unanimously consign Père Duchesne to the guillotine."
(Note that the Père Duchesne, founded by Hébert, was the most radical and revolutionary journal.
(SR.)--Of all privileges, accordingly, that of having a supply of food is the most offensive;
"it is now necessary for one who has two dishes to give one of them to him who has none;"[4191]
every man who manages to eat more than another is a robber; for, in the first place, he robs
the community, the sole legitimate owner of aliments, and next, he robs, and personally, all
who have less to eat than he has.

The same rule applies to other things of which the possession is either agreeable or useful:
in an equalizing social system, that now established, every article of food possessed by one
individual to the exclusion of others, is a dish abstracted from the common table and held
by him to another's detriment. On the strength of this, the theorists who govern agree with
the reigning ragamuffins. Whoever has two good coats is an aristocrat, for there are many who
have only one poor one.[4192] Whoever has good shoes is an aristocrat, for many wear wooden
ones, and others go barefoot. Whoever owns and rents lodgings is an aristocrat, for others,
his tenants, instead of receiving money, pay it out. The tenant who furnishes his own rooms
is an aristocrat, for many lodge in boarding-houses and others sleep in the open air. Whoever
possesses capital is an aristocrat, even the smallest amount in money or in kind, a field,
a roof over his head, half-a-dozen silver spoons given to him by his parents on his wedding-day,
an old woollen stocking into which twenty or thirty crowns have been dropped one by one, all
one's savings, whatever has been laid by or economized, a petty assortment of eatables or merchandise,
one's crop for the year and stock of groceries, especially if, disliking to give them up and
letting his dissatisfaction be seen, he, through revolutionary taxation and requisitions, through
the maximum and the confiscation of the precious metals, is constrained to surrender his small
savings gratis, or at half their value.--Fundamentally, it is only those who have nothing of
their own that are held to be patriots, those who live from day to day,[4193] "the wretched,"
the poor, vagabonds, and the famished; the humblest laborer, the least instructed, the most
ill at his ease, is treated as criminal, as an enemy, as soon as he is suspected of having
some resources; in vain does he show his scarified or callous hands; he escapes neither spoliation,
the prison, nor the guillotine. At Troyes, a poor shop-girl who had set up a small business
on borrowed money, but who is ruined by a bankruptcy and completely so by the maximum, infirm,
and consuming piecemeal the rest of her stock, is taxed five hundred livres.[4194] In the villages
of Alsace, an order is issued to arrest the five, six or seven richest persons in the commune,
even if there are no rich; consequently, they seize the least poor, simply because they are
so; for instance, at Heiligenberg, six "farmers" one of whom is a day-laborer, "or journey-man,"
"suspect," says the register of the jail, "because he is comfortably off."[4195] On this account
nowhere are there so many "suspects" as among the people; the shop, the farm and the work-room
harbor more aristocrats than the rectory and the chateau. In effect, according to the Jacobins,[4196]
"nearly all farmers are aristocrats;" "the merchants are all essentially anti-revolutionary,"[4197]
and especially all dealers in articles of prime necessity, wine-merchants, bakers and butchers;
the latter especially are open "conspirators," enemies "of the interior," and "whose aristocracy
is insupportable." Such, already, among the lower class of people, are the many delinquents
who are punished.

But there are still more of them to punish, for, besides the crime of not being destitute,
of possessing some property, of withholding articles necessary for existence, there is the
crime of aristocracy, necessarily so called, namely, repugnance to, lack of zeal, or even indifference
for the established régime, regret for the old one, relationship or intercourse with a condemned
or imprisoned émigré of the upper class, services rendered to some outlaw, the resort to some
priest; now, numbers of poor farmers, mechanics, domestics and women servants, have committed
this crime;[4198] and in many provinces and in many of the large cities nearly the whole of
the laboring population commits it and persists in it; such is the case, according to Jacobin
reports, in Alsace, Franche-Comté, Provence, Vaucluse, Anjou, Poitou, Vendée, Brittany, Picardie
and Flanders, and in Marseilles, Bordeaux and Lyons. In Lyons alone, writes Collot d'Herbois,
"there are sixty thousand persons who never will become republicans. They should be dealt with,
that is made redundant, and prudently distributed all over the surface of the Republic."[4199]--Finally,
add to the persons of the lower class, prosecuted on public grounds, those who are prosecuted
on private grounds. Among peasants in the same village, workmen of the same trade and shopkeepers
in the same quarter, there is always envy, enmities and spites; those who are Jacobins become
local pashas and are able to gratify local jealousies with impunity, something they never fail
to do.[41100]

Hence, on the lists of the guillotined, the incarcerated and of emigrés, the men and women
of inferior condition are in much greater number, far greater than their companions of the
superior and middle classes all put together. Out of 12,000 condemned to death whose rank and
professions have been ascertained, 7,545[41101] are peasants, cultivators, ploughmen, workmen
of various sorts, innkeepers, wine-dealers, soldiers and sailors, domestics, women, young girls,
servants and seamstresses. Out of 1,900 emigrés from Doubs, nearly 1,100 belong to the lower
class. Towards the month of April, 1794, all the prisons in France overflow with farmers;[41102]
in the Paris prisons alone, two months before Thermidor 9, there are 2 000 of them.[41103]
Without mentioning the eleven western departments in which four or five hundred square leagues
of territory are devastated and twenty towns and one thousand eight hundred villages destroyed,[41104]
where the avowed purpose of the Jacobin policy is a systematic and total destruction of the
country, man and beast, buildings, crops, and even trees, there are cantons and even provinces
where the entire rural and working population is arrested or put to flight. In the Pyrenees,
the old Basque populations "torn from their natal soil, crowded into the churches with no means
of subsistence but that of charity," in the middle of winter, so that sixteen hundred of those
incarcerated die "mostly of cold and hunger;"[41105] at Bédouin, a town of two thousand souls,
in which a tree of liberty is cut down by some unknown persons, four hundred and thirty-three
houses are demolished or burned, sixteen persons guillotined and forty-seven shot, while the
rest of the inhabitants are driven out, reduced to living like vagabonds on the mountain, or
in holes which they dig in the ground;[41106] in Alsace, fifty thousand farmers who, in the
winter of 1793, take refuge with their wives and children on the other side of the Rhine.[41107]
In short, the revolutionary operation is a complete prostration of people of all classes, the
trunks as well as the saplings being felled, and often in such a way as to clear the ground
entirely.

But in this ruthless felling, however, the notables of the people, making all due allowances,
suffer more than the ordinary people. It is obvious that the Jacobin wood-chopper persecutes,
insistently and selectively, the veterans of labor and savings, the large cultivators who from
father to son and for many generations have possessed the same farm, the master-craftsmen whose
shops are well stocked and who have good customers, the respectable, well-patronized retailers,
who owe nothing; the village-syndics and trades-syndics, all those showing more deeply and
visibly than the rest of their class, the five or six blazes which summon the ax. They are
better off, better provided with desirable comforts and conveniences, which is of itself an
offense against equality. Having accumulated a small hoard, a few pieces of plate, sometimes
a few crowns,[41108] a store of linen and clothes, a stock of provisions or goods, they do
not willingly submit to being plundered, which is the offense of egoism. Being egoists, it
is presumed that they are hostile to the system of fraternity, at least indifferent to it,
as well as lukewarm towards the Republic, that is to say, Moderates, which is the worst offense
of all.[41109] Being the foremost of their class, they are haughty like the nobles or the bourgeois
and regard themselves as superior to a poor man, to a vagabond, to a genuine sans-culotte,
the fourth and most inexcusable of all offenses. Moreover, from the fact of their superior
condition, they have contracted familiarities and formed connections with the proscribed class;
the farmer, the intendant, the overseer is often attached to his noble proprietor or patron;[41110]
many of the farmers, shopkeepers and craftsmen belonging to old families are considered as
affiliated with the bourgeoisie or the clergy,[41111] through a son or brother who has risen
a degree in trade, or by some industrial pursuit, or who, having completed his studies, has
become a curé or lawyer, or else through some daughter, or well-married sister, or through
one who has become a nun: now, this relation, ally, friend or comrade of a "suspect "is himself
a "suspect,"--the last anti-revolutionary and decisive barrier. Sober and well-behaved persons,
having prospered or maintained themselves under the ancient régime, must naturally cherish
respect for former institutions; they must involuntarily retain a deep feeling of veneration
for the King, and especially for religion; they are devout Catholics, and therefore are chagrined
to see the churches shut up, worship prohibited and ecclesiastics persecuted, and would again
be glad to go to Mass, honor Easter, and have an orthodox curé who could administer to them
available sacraments, a baptism, an absolution, a marriage-rite, a genuine extreme unction.[41112]--Under
all these headings, they have made personal enemies of the rascals who hold office; on all
these grounds, they are struck down; what was once meritorious with them is now disgraceful.
Thus, the principal swath consists of the élite of the people, selected from amongst the people
itself; it is against the "subordinate aristocracy," those most capable of doing and conducting
manual labor, the most creditable workmen, through their activity, frugality and good habits,
that the Revolution, in its rigor against the inferior class, rages with the greatest fury.

VIII. Rigor against the Upper Classes.

     The rigor of the revolutionary laws increase according to
     the elevation of the class.--The Notables properly so called
     attacked because of their being Notables.--Orders of
     Taillefer, Milhaud, and Lefiot.--The public atonement of
     Montargis.

For the same reason, as far as the notables, properly so-called, are concerned, it bears down
still more heavily, not merely on the nobles because of ancient privileges, not merely on ecclesiastics
on the score of being insubordinate Catholics, but on nobles, ecclesiastics and bourgeois in
their capacity of notables, that is to say, born and bred above others, and respected by the
masses on account of their superior condition.--In the eyes of the genuine Jacobin, the notables
of the third class are no less criminal than the members of the two superior classes. "The
bourgeois,[41113] the merchants, the large proprietors," writes a popular club in the South,
"all have the pretension of the old set (des ci-dévants)." And the club complains of "the law
not providing means for opening the eyes of the people with respect to these new tyrants."
It is horrible! The stand they take is an offense against equality and they are proud of it!
And what is worse, this stand attracts public consideration! Consequently, "the club requests
that the revolutionary Tribunal be empowered to consign this proud class to temporary confinement,"
and then "the people would see the crime it had committed and recover from the sort of esteem
in which they had held it."--Incorrigible and contemptuous heretics against the new creed,
they are only too lucky to be treated somewhat like infidel Jews in the middle-ages. Accordingly,
if they are tolerated, it is on the condition that they let themselves be pillaged at discretion,
covered with opprobrium and subdued through fear.--At one time, with insulting irony, they
are called upon to prove their dubious civism by forced donations. "Whereas,"[41114] says Representative
Milhaud, "all the citizens and citoyennes of Narbonne being in requisition for the discharge
and transport of forage; whereas, this morning, the Representative, in person, having inspected
the performance of this duty," and having observed on the canal "none but sans-culottes and
a few young citizens; whereas, not finding at their posts any muscadin and no muscadine; whereas,
the persons, whose hands are no doubt too delicate, even temporarily, for the glorious work
of robust sans-culottes, have, on the other hand, greater resources in their fortune, and,
desiring to afford to the rich of Narbonne the precious advantage of being equally useful to
the republic," hereby orders that "the richest citizens of Narbonne pay within twenty-four
hours" a patriotic donation of one hundred thousand livres, one-half to be assigned to the
military hospitals, and the other half, on the designation thereof by a "Committee of Charity,
composed of three reliable revolutionary sans-culottes," to be distributed among the poor of
the Commune. Should any "rich egoist refuse to contribute his contingent he is to be immediately
transferred to the jail at Perpignan."--Not to labor with one's own hands, to be disqualified
for work demanding physical strength, is of itself a democratic stain, and the man who is sullied
by this draws down on himself, not alone an augmentation of pecuniary taxation, but frequently
an augmentation of personal compulsory labor. At Villeneuve, Aveyron, and throughout the department
of Cantal,[41115] Representative Taillefer and his delegate Deltheil, instruct the Revolutionary
Committees to "place under military requisition and conscription all muscadins above the first
class," that is to say, all between twenty-five and forty years of age who are not reached
by the law. "By muscadins is meant all citizens of that age not married, and exercising no
useful profession," in other words, those who live on their income. And, that none of the middle
or upper class may escape, the edict subjects to special rigor, supplementary taxes, and arbitrary
arrest, not alone property-holders and fund-holders, but again all persons designated under
the following heads,--aristocrats, Feuillants, moderates, Girondists, federalists, muscadins,
the superstitious, fanatics the abettors of royalism, of superstition and of federation, monopolists,
jobbers, egoists, "suspects" of incivism, and, generally, all who are indifferent to the Revolution,
of which local committees are to draw up the lists.

Occasionally, in a town, some steps taken collectively, either a vote or petition, furnish
a ready-made list;[41116] it suffices to read this to know who are notables, the most upright
people of the place; henceforth, under the pretext of political repression, the levellers may
give free play to their social hatred.--At Montargis, nine days after the attempt of June 20,
1792,[41117] two hundred and twenty-eight notables sign an address in testimony of their respectful
sympathy for the King; a year and nine months later, in consequence of a retroactive stroke,
all are hit, and, with the more satisfaction, inasmuch as in their persons the most respected
in the town fall beneath the blow, all whom flight and banishment had left there belonging
to the noble, ecclesiastic, bourgeois or popular aristocracy. Already, "on the purification
of the constituted authorities of Montargis, the representative had withdrawn every signer
from places of public trust and kept them out of all offices." But this is not sufficient;
the punishment must be more exemplary. Four of them, the ex-mayor, an ex-collector, a district
administrator and a notable are sent to the revolutionary Tribunal in Paris, to be guillotined
in deference to principles. Thirty-two former officers--chevaliers of St. Louis, mousquetaires,
nobles, priests, an ex-procureur-royal, an ex-treasurer of France, a former administrator of
the department, and two ladies, one of them designated as "calling herself a former marchioness"--are
confined, until peace is secured, in the jail at Montargis. Other former municipal officers
and officers in the National Guard--men of the law, notaries and advocates, physicians, surgeons,
former collectors, police commissioners, postmasters, merchants and manufacturers, men and
women, married or widows and widowers--are to make public apology and be summoned to the Temple
of Reason to undergo there the humiliation of a public penance on the 20th of Ventôse at three
o'clock in the afternoon. They all go, for the summons says, "whoever does not present himself
on the day and hour named will be arrested and confined until peace is declared." On reaching
the church, purified by Jacobin adoration, "in the presence of the constituted authorities
of the popular club and of the citizens convoked in general assembly," they mount one by one
into a tribune raised three steps above the floor," in such a way as to be in full sight. One
by one the national agent, or the mayor, reprimands them in the following language:

"You have been base enough to sign a fawning address to Louis XVI., the most odious and the
vilest of tyrants, an ogre of the human species guilty of every sort of crime and debauchery.
You are hereby censured by the people. You are moreover warned that on committing the first
act of incivism, or manifesting any anti-revolutionary conduct, the surveillance of the constituted
authorities will be extended to you in the most energetic manner; the tribunals will show you
less leniency and the guillotine will insure prompt and imposing justice."

Each, called by name, receives in turn the threatened admonition, and, descending from the
tribune amidst hues and cries, all sign the procès-verbal. But shame and guilt are often absent,
and some of them do not seem to be sufficiently penitent. Consequently, at the close of the
ceremony, the National Agent calls the attention of the assembly to "the impudence manifested
by certain aristocrats, so degraded that even national justice fails to make them blush;" and
the Revolutionary Committee, "considering the indifference and derisive conduct of four women
and three men, just manifested in this assembly; considering the necessity of punishing an
inveterate aristocracy which seems to make sport of corrective acts that bear only (sic) on
morals, in a most exemplary manner, decides that the seven delinquents "shall be put under
arrest, and confined in the jail of Sainte-Marie." The three who have shown indifference, are
to be confined three months; the four who have shown derision, are to be confined until peace
is restored. Besides this, the decree of the National Agent and the minutes of the meeting
are to be printed and six thousand impressions struck off at the expense of the signers, "the
richest and most 'suspect,' "--a former treasurer of France, a notary, a grocer, the wife of
the former commandant of the gendarmerie, a widow and another woman,--all, says the agent,
"of very solid wealth and aristocracy." "Bravo!" shouts the assembly, at this witticism; applause
is given and it sings "the national hymn." It is nine o'clock in the evening. This public penitence
lasts six hours and the Jacobins of Montargis retire, proud of their work; having punished
as a public affront, an old and legal manifestation of respect for the public magistrate; having
sent either to the scaffold or to prison, and fined or disgraced the small local élite; having
degraded to the level of prostitutes and felons under surveillance, reputable women and honorable
men who are, by law, most esteemed under a normal system of government and who, under the revolutionary
system are, by law, the least so.[41118]

IX. The Jacobin Citizen Robot.

     Two characteristics of the upper class, wealth and
     education.--Each of these is criminal.--Measures against
     rich and well-to-do people.--Affected in a mass and by
     categories.--Measures against cultivated and polite people.
     --Danger of culture and distinction.--Proscription of "honest
     folks."

Two advantages, fortune and education, each involving the other, cause a man to be ranked in
the upper class; hence, one or the other, whether each by itself or both together, mark a man
out for spoliation, imprisonment and death.--In vain may he have demonstrated his Jacobinism,
and Jacobinism of the ultra sort. Hérault-Séchelles, who voted for murdering the King, who
belongs to the Committee of Public Safety, who, in the Upper-Rhine, has just carried out the
worst revolutionary ordinances,[41119] but who has the misfortune to be rich and a man of the
world, is led to the scaffold, and those devoted to the guillotine readily explain his condemnation:
he is no patriot,--how could he be, enjoying an income of two hundred thousand livres, and,
moreover, is he not a general-advocate?[41120] One of these offenses is sufficient.--Alone
and by itself, "opulence," writes Saint-Just, "is a disgrace," and, according to him, a man
is opulent "who supports fewer children than he has thousands of livres income; in effect,
among the persons confined as "rich and egoists" we find, according to the very declaration
of the Revolutionary Committee, persons with incomes of only 4,000, 3,700, 1,500, and even
500 livres.[41121] Moreover, a fortune or a competence, inspires its possessor with anti-revolutionary
sentiments; consequently, he is for the moment an obstruction; "You are rich," says Cambon,
making use of a personification, "you cherish an opinion, which compels us to be on the defensive;
pay then, so as to indemnify us and be thankful for our indulgence which, precautionary and
until peace is declared, keeps you under bolt and bar."[41122] Rich, anti-revolutionary, and
vicious," according to Robespierre,[41123] "these three traits depend on each other, and, therefore,
the possession of the superfluous is an infallible sign of aristocracy, a visible mark of incivism"
and, as Fouché says, "a stamp of reprobation." "The superfluous is an evident and unwarrantable
violation of the people's rights; every man who has more than his wants call for, cannot use,
and therefore he must only abuse."[41124] Whoever does not make over to the masses the excess
of what is strictly necessary.... places himself in the rank of 'suspects.' Rich egoists, you
are the cause of our misfortunes!"[41125] "You dared to smile contemptuously on the appellation
of sans-culottes;[41126] you have enjoyed much more than your brethren alongside of you dying
with hunger; you are not fit to associate with them, and since you have disdained to have them
eat at your table, they cast you out eternally from their bosom and condemn you, in turn, to
wear the shackles prepared for them by your indifference or your maneuvers." In other words,
whoever has a good roof over his head, or wears good clothes, man or woman, idler or industrious,
noble or commoner, is available for the prison or the guillotine, or, at the very least, he
is a taxable and workable serf at pleasure; his capital and accumulations, if not spontaneously
and immediately handed over, form a criminal basis and proof of conviction.--The orders of
arrest are generally issued against him on account of his wealth; in order to drain a town
of these offenders one by one, all are penned together according to their resources; at Strasbourg,[41127]
193 persons are taxed, each from 6,000 to 300,000 livres, in all 9 million livres, payable
within twenty-four hours, by the leading men of each profession or trade, bankers, brokers,
merchants, manufacturers, professors, pastors, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, publishers, printers,
upholsterers, glass-dealers, rope-makers, master-masons, coffee-house and tavern keepers. And
let there be no delay in responding to these orders within the prescribed time! Otherwise the
delinquents will be placed in the stocks, on the scaffold, face to face with the guillotine.
"One of the best citizens in the commune, who had steadily manifested his attachment to the
Revolution, being unable to realize a sum of 250,000 livres in one day, was fastened in the
pillory."[41128] Sometimes the orders affected an entire class, not alone nobles or priests,
but all the members of any bourgeois profession or even of any handicraft. At Strasbourg, a
little later, "considering that the thirst for gold has always controlled the brewers of the
commune," they are condemned to 250,000 livres fine, to be paid in three days under penalty
of being declared rebels, with the confiscation of their possessions;" then, upon another similar
consideration, the bakers and flour dealers are taxed three hundred thousand livres.[41129]
In addition to this, writes Representative Milhaud, at Guyardin,[41130] "We have ordered the
arrest of all bankers, stock-brokers and notaries.... All their wealth is confiscated; we estimate
the sums under seal at 2 or 3 millions in coin, and 15 or 16 in assignats." There is the same
haul of the net at Paris. By order of Lhuillier, procureur of the department, "seals are placed
in the offices of all the bankers, stock-brokers, silversmiths, etc.," and they themselves
are shut up in the Madelonettes; a few days after, that they may pay their drafts, they are
let out as a favor, but on condition that they remain under arrest in their homes, at their
own expense, under guard of two good sans-culottes.[41131] In like manner, at Nantes,[41132]
Lyons, Marseilles and Bordeaux, the prisons are filled and the guillotine works according to
the categories. At one time they are "all of the Grand Théatre," or the principal merchants,
"to the number of more than 200," are incarcerated at Bordeaux in one night.[41133] At another
time, Paris provides a haul of farmer-generals or parliamentarians. Carts leave Toulouse conveying
its parliamentarians to Paris to undergo capital punishment. At Aix, writes an agent,[41134]

"the guillotine is going to work on former lawyers a few hundred heads legally taken off will
do the greatest good."

And, as new crimes require new terms to designate them, they add to "incivisme" and "moderantisme,"
the term "negociantisme," all of which are easily stated and widespread crimes.

"The rich and the merchants," writes an observer,[41135] "are here, as elsewhere, born enemies
of equality and lovers of hideous federalism, the only aristocracy that remains to be crushed out."

Barras, with still greater precision, declares in the tribune that, "commerce is usurious,
monarchical and anti-revolutionary."[41136] Considered in itself, it may be defined as an appeal
to bad instincts; it seems a corrupting, incivique, anti-fraternal institution, many Jacobins
having proposed either to interdict it to private persons and attribute it wholly to the State,
or suppress it along with the arts and manufactures which nourish it, in order that only a
population of agriculturists and soldiers may be left in France.[41137]

The second advantage and the second crime of the notables is superiority of education. "In
all respectable assemblages," writes a Dutch traveler in 1795,[41138] "you may be sure that
one-half of those present have been in prison. Add the absent, the guillotined, the exiled,
emigrés, the deported, and note this, that, in the other favored half, those who did not quaff
the prison cup had had a foretaste of it for, each expected daily to receive his warrant of
arrest; "the worst thing under Robespierre, as several old gentlemen have told me, was that
one never knew in the morning whether one would sleep in one's own bed at night." There was
not a well-bred man who did not live in dread of this; examine the lists of "suspects," of
the arrested, of exiles, of those executed, in any town, district or department,[41139] and
you will see immediately, through their quality and occupations, first, that three-quarters
of the cultivated are inscribed on it, and next, that intellectual culture in itself is suspect.
"They were equally criminal,"[41140] write the Strasbourg administrators, "whether rich or
cultivated.... The (Jacobin) municipality declared the University federalist; it proscribed
public instruction and, consequently, the professors, regents, and heads of schools, with all
instructors, public as well as private, even those provided with certificates of civism, were
arrested;.... every Protestant minister and teacher in the Lower-Rhine department was incarcerated,
with a threat of being transferred to the citadel at Besançon."--Fourcroy, in the Jacobin Club
at Paris, excusing himself for being a savant, for giving lectures on chemistry, for not devoting
his time to the rantings of the Convention and of the clubs, is obliged to declare that he
is poor, that he lives by his work, that he supports "his father, a sans-culotte, and his sans-culotte
sisters;" although a good republican, he barely escapes, and the same with others like him.
All educated men were persecuted," he states a month after Thermidor 9;[41141] "to have acquaintances,
to be literary, sufficed for arrest, as an aristocrat.... Robespierre... with devilish ingenuity,
abused, calumniated and overwhelmed with gall and bitterness all who were devoted to serious
studies, all who professed extensive knowledge;... he felt that cultivated men would never
bend the knee to him [41142]..... Instruction was paralyzed; they wanted to burn the libraries.....
Must I tell you that at the very door of your assembly errors in orthography are seen? Nobody
learns how to read or write."--At Nantes, Carrier boasts of having "dispersed the literary
chambers," while in his enumeration of the evil-minded he adds "to the rich and merchants,"
"all gens d'esprit."[41143] Sometimes on the turnkey's register we read that such an one was
confined "for being clever and able to do mischief," another for saying "good-day, gentlemen,
to the municipal councillors."[41144]

Politeness has, like other signs of a good education, become a stigma; good manners are considered,
not only as a remnant of the ancient régime, but as a revolt against the new institutions;
now, as the governing principle of these is, theoretically, abstract equality and, practically,
the ascendancy of the low class, one rebels against the established order of things when one
repudiates coarse companions, familiar oaths, and the indecent expressions of the common workman
and the soldier. In sum, Jacobinism, through its doctrines and deeds, its dungeons and executioners,
proclaims to the nation over which it holds the rod:[41145]

"Be rude, that you may become republican, return to barbarism that you may show the superiority
of your genius; abandon the customs of civilized people that you may adopt those of galley
slaves; mar your language with a view to improve it; use that of the populace under penalty
of death. Spanish beggars treat each other in a dignified way; they show respect for humanity
although in tatters. We, on the contrary, order you to assume our rags, our patois, our terms
of intimacy. Don the carmagnole and tremble; become rustics and dolts, and prove your civism
by the absence of all education."

This is true to the letter.

"Education,[41146]" says another contemporary, "amiable qualities, gentle ways, a mild physiognomy,
bodily graces, a cultivated mind, all natural endowments are henceforth the inevitable causes
of proscription."

One is self-condemned if one has not converted oneself into a sans-culotte and proletarian,
in accordance with affected modes, air, language and dress. Hence,

"through a hypocritical contest hitherto unknown men who were not vicious deemed it necessary
to appear so."

And worse still,

"one was even afraid to be oneself; one changed one's name, one went in disguise, wearing a
vulgar and tasteless attire; everybody shrunk from being what he was."

For, according to the Jacobin program, all Frenchmen must be recast[41147] in one uniform mold;
they must be taken when small; all must be subject to the same enforced education, that of
a mechanic, rustic and soldier's boy. Be warned, ye adults, by the guillotine, reform yourselves
beforehand according to the prescribed pattern! No more costly, elegant or delicate crystal
or gold vases! All are shattered or are still being shattered. Henceforth, only common ware
is to be tolerated or ordered to be made, all alike in substance, shape and color, manufactured
by thousands at wholesale and in public factories, for the common and plain uses of rural and
military life; all original and superior forms are to be rejected.

"The masters of the day," writes Daunou,[41148] "deliberately aimed their sword thrusts at
superior talent, at energetic characters; they mowed down as well as they could in so short
a time, the flower and hope of the nation."

In this respect they were consistent; equality-socialism[41149] allows none but automatic citizens,
mere tools in the hands of the State, all alike, of a rudimentary fashion and easily managed,
without personal conscience, spontaneity, curiosity or integrity; whoever has cultivated himself,
whoever has thought for himself and exercised his own will and judgment rises above the level
and shakes off the yoke; to obtain consideration, to be intelligent and honorable, to belong
to the élite, is to be anti-revolutionary. In the popular club of Bourg-en-Bresse,[41150] Representative
Javogues declared that,

"the Republic could be established only on the corpse of the last of the respectable men."

X. The Governors and the Governed.

     Prisoners in the rue de Sévres and the "Croix-Rouge"
     revolutionary committee.--The young Dauphin and Simon his
     preceptor.--Judges, and those under their jurisdiction.
     --Trenchard and Coffinhal, Lavoisier and André Chénier.

Here we have, on one side, the élite of France, almost every person of rank, fortune, family,
and merit, those eminent for intelligence, culture, talent and virtue, all deprived of common
rights, in exile, in prison, under pikes, and on the scaffold. On the other side, those above
common law, possessing every office and omnipotent in the irresponsible dictatorship, in the
despotic proconsulships, in the sovereignty of justice, a horde of the outcasts of all classes,
the parvenus of fanaticism, charlatanism, imbecility and crime. Often, when these personalities
meet, one sees the contrast between the governed and the governors in such strong relief that
one almost regards it as calculated and arranged beforehand; the colors and brush of the painter,
rather than words, are necessary to represent it. In the western section of Paris, in the prisons
of the rue de Sévres[41151] the prisoners consist of the most distinguished personages of the
Quartier Saint Germain, prelates, officers, grand-seigniors, and noble ladies,--Monseigneur
de Clermont-Tonnerre, Monseigneur de Crussol d'Amboise, Monseigneur de Hersaint, Monseigneur
de Saint Simon, bishop of Agde, the Comtesse de Narbonne-Pelet, the Duchesse de Choiseul, the
Princesse de Chimay, the Comtesse de Raymond-Narbonne and her daughter, two years of age, in
short, the flower of that refined society which Europe admired and imitated and which, in its
exquisite perfection, equalled or surpassed all that Greece, Rome and Italy had produced in
brilliancy, polish and amiability. Contrast with these the arbiters of their lives and deaths,
the potentates of the same quarter who issue the warrants of arrest against them, who pen them
in to speculate on them, and who revel at their expense and before their eyes: these consist
of the members of the revolutionary committee of the Croix-Rouge, the eighteen convicted rogues
and debauchees previously described,[41152] ex-cab-drivers, porters, cobblers, street-messengers,
stevedores, bankrupts, counterfeiters, former or future jail-birds, all clients of the police
or alms-house riff-raff.--At the other end of Paris, in the east, in the tower of the Temple,
separated from his sister and torn from his mother, still lives the little Dauphin: no one
in France merits more pity or respect than him. For, if France exists, it is owing to the thirty-five
military chiefs and crowned kings of which he is the last direct scion; without their thousand
years of hereditary rule and preserving policy the intruders into the Tuileries who have just
profaned their tombs at St. Denis and thrown their bones into a common ditch,[41153] would
not be Frenchmen. At this moment, were suffrages free, the immense majority of the people,
nineteen Frenchmen out of twenty, would recognize this innocent and precious child for their
King, the heir of the people of which their nation and country is formed, a child of eight
years, of rare precociousness, as intelligent as he is good, and of a gentle and winning expression.
Look at the other figure alongside of him, his fist raised and with insults on his lips, with
a hang-dog face, bloated with brandy, titular governor, official preceptor, and absolute master
of this child, the cobbler Simon, malignant, foul-mouthed, mean in every way, forcing him to
become intoxicated, starving him, preventing him from sleeping, thrashing him, and who, obeying
orders, instinctively visits on him all his brutality and corruption that he may pervert, degrade
and deprave him.[41154]--In the Palais de Justice, midway between the tower of the Temple and
the prison in the rue de Sèvres, an almost similar contrast, transposing the merits and demerits,
daily brings together in opposition the innocent with the vile. There are days when the contrast,
still more striking, seats criminals on the judges' bench and judges on the bench of criminals.
On the first and second of Floréal, the old representatives and trustees of liberty under the
monarchy, twenty-five magistrates of the Paris and Toulouse parliaments, many of them being
eminent intellects of the highest culture and noblest character, embracing the greatest historical
names of the French magistracy,--Etienne Pasquier, Lefèvre d'Ormesson, Molé de Champlatreux,
De Lamoignon, de Malesherbes,--are sent to the guillotine[41155] by the judges and juries familiar
to us, assassins or brutes who do not take the trouble, or who have not the capacity, to give
proper color to their sentences. M. de Malesherbes exclaims, after reading his indictment,
"If that were only common-sense!"--In effect those who pronounce judgment are, by their own
admission, "substantial jurymen, good sans-culottes, natural people." And such a nature! One
of these, Trenchard, an Auvergnat carpenter, portrays himself accurately in the following note
addressed to his wife before the trial comes on:

"If you are not alone, and the companion can work, you may come, my dear, and see the twenty-four
gentlemen condemned, all of them former presidents or councillors in the parliaments of Toulouse
and Paris. I recommend you to bring something along with you (to eat), it will be three hours
before we finish. I embrace you, my dear friend and wife."[41156]

In the same court, Lavoisier, the founder and organizer of chemistry, the great discoverer,
and condemned to death, asks for a reprieve of his sentence for a fortnight to complete an
experiment, and the president, Coffinhal, another Auvergnat, replies,

"The Republic has no need of savants."[41157]

And it has no need of poets. The first poet of the epoch, André Chénier, the delicate and superior
artist who reopens antique sources of inspiration and starts the modern current, is guillotined;
we possess the original manuscript indictment of his examination, a veritable master-piece
of gibberish and barbarism, of which a full copy is necessary to convey an idea of its "turpitudes
of sense and orthography."[41158] The reader may there see, if he pleases, a man of genius
delivered up to brutes, coarse, angry, despotic animals, who listen to nothing, who comprehend
nothing, who do not even understand terms in common use, who stumble through their queries,
and who, to ape intelligence, draggle their pens along in supreme stupidity.

The overthrow is complete. France, subject to the Revolutionary Government, resembles a human
being forced to walk with his head down and to think with his feet.

*****

[Footnote 4101: Cf. "The Revolution," book I., ch. 3, and book III., chs. 9 and 10.]

[Footnote 4102: Grégoire, "Memoires," II., 172. "About eighteen thousand ecclesiastics are
enumerated among the émigrés of the first epoch. About eighteen thousand more took themselves
off, or were sent off, after the 2nd of September."]

[Footnote 4103: Ibid., 26. "The chief of the émigré bureau in the police department (May 9,
1805) enumerates about two hundred thousand persons reached, or affected, by the laws concerning
emigration."--Lally-Tolendal, "Défense des Emigrés," (2nd part, p. 62 and passim). Several
thousand persons inscribed as émigrés did not leave France. The local administration recorded
them on its lists either because they lived in another department, and could not obtain the
numerous certificates exacted by the law in proof of residence, or because those who made up
the lists treated these certificates with contempt. It was found convenient to manufacture
an émigré in order to confiscate his possessions legally, and even to guillotine him, not less
legally, as a returned émigré.--Message of the Directory to the "Five Hundred," Ventôse 3,
year V.: "According to a rough estimate, obtained at the Ministry of Finances, the number enrolled
on the general list of émigres amounts to over one hundred and twenty thousand; and, again,
the lists from some of the departments have not come in."--Lafayette, "Mémoires," vol. II.,
181. (Letters to M. de Maubourg, Oct. 17, 1799 (noté) Oct. 19, 1800.) According to the report
of the Minister of Police, the list of émigrés, in nine vols., still embraced one hundred and
forty-five thousand persons, notwithstanding that thirteen thousand were struck off by the
Directory, and twelve hundred by the consular government.]

[Footnote 4104: Cf. Mémoires of Louvet, Dulaure and Vaublanc.--Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires," II.,
7. "Several, to whom I have spoken, literally made the tour of France in various disguises,
without having been able to find an outlet; it was only after a series of romantic adventures
that they finally succeeded in gaining the Swiss frontier, the only one at all accessible."--Sauzay,
V., 210, 220, 226, 276. (Emigration of fifty-four inhabitants of Charquemont, setting out for
Hungary.)]

[Footnote 4105: Ibid., vols. IV., V., VI., VII. (On the banished priests remaining and still
continuing their ministrations, and on those who returned to resume them.)--To obtain an idea
of the situation of the emigrés and their relations and friends, it is necessary to read the
law of Sep.15, 1794 (Brumaire 25, year III.), which renews and generalizes previous laws; children
of fourteen years and ten years are affected by it. It was with the greatest difficulty, even
if one did not leave France, that a person could prove that he had not emigrated.]

[Footnote 4106: Pandour, an 18th century Croatian foot-soldier in the Austrian service: a robber.
(SR)]

[Footnote 4107: Moniteur, XVIII., 215. (Letter of Brigadier-general Vandamme to the convention,
Ferney, Brumaire I, year II.) The reading of this letter calls forth "reiterated applause."]

[Footnote 4108: Sauzay, V., 196. (The total is five thousand two hundred. Some hundreds of
names might be added, inasmuch as many of the village lists are wanting.)]

[Footnote 4109: Buchez et Roux, XXXIV., 434. (List of arrests after Prairial 7, year II.) "When
the following arrests were made there were already over three thousand persons confined in
Strasbourg."--Alfred Lallier, "Les Noyades de Nantes," p.90.--Berryat Saint-Prix, p.436. (Letter
of Maignet to Couthon, Avignon, Floreal 4, year II.)]

[Footnote 4113: Baulieu, "Essais," V., 283. At the end of December, 1793, Camille Desmoulins
wrote: "Open the prison doors to those two hundred thousand citizens whom you call 'suspects'!"--The
number of prisoners largely increased during the seven following months. ("Le Vieux Cordelier,"
No. IV., Frimaire 30, year II.)--Beaulieu does not state precisely what the committee of General
Security meant by the word déténu. Does it merely relate to those incarcerated? Or must all
who were confined at their own houses be included?--We are able to verify his statement and
determine the number, at least approximatively, by taking one department in which the rigor
of the revolutionary system was average and where the lists handed in were complete. According
to the census of 1791, Doubs contained two hundred and twenty-one thousand inhabitants; France
had a population of 26 millions, and we have just seen the number of each category that were
under confinement; the proportion for France gives 258 000 persons incarcerated, and 175 000
confined to their houses, and 175 000 persons besides these on the limits in their communes,
or ajournées, that is to say, 608 000 persons deprived of their liberty. The first two categories
form a total of 433 000 persons, sufficiently near Beaulieu's figures.]

[Footnote 4114: Paris, "Histoire de Joseph Lebon," II., 371, 372, 375, 377, 379, 380.--"Les
Angoisses de la Mort," by Poirier and Monjay of Dunkirk (second edition, year III.). "Their
children and trusty agents still remained in prison; they were treated no better than ourselves...
. we saw children coming in from all quarters, infants of five years, and, to withdraw them
from paternal authority, they had sent to them from time to time, commissioners who used immoral
language with them."]

[Footnote 4115: Mémoires sur les Prisons," (Barrière et Berville collection), II., 354, and
appendix F. Ibid., II., 2262.--The women were the first to pass under rapiotage." (Prisons
of Arras and that of Plessis, at Paris.)]

[Footnote 4116: "Documents on Daunou," by Taillandier. They were generally put with those on
the straw, on entering, where they sometimes remained a fortnight... It was necessary to drink
brandy with these persons; in the evening, after having dropped their excrement near their
straw, they went to sleep in their filth.... I passed those three nights half-sitting, half-stretched
out on a bench, one leg on the ground and leaning against the wall."--Wallon, "La Terreur,"
II., 87. (Report of Grandpré on the Conciergerie, March 17, 1793. "Twenty-six men collected
into one room, sleeping on twenty-one mattresses, breathing the foulest air and covered with
half-rotten rags." In another room forty-five men and ten straw-beds; in a third, thirty-nine
poor creatures dying in nine bunks; in three other rooms, eighty miserable creatures on sixteen
mattresses filled with vermin, and, as to the women, fifty-four having nine mattresses and
standing up alternately.--The worst prisons in Paris were the Conciergerie, La Force, Le Plessis
and Bicêtre.--"Tableau des Prisons de Toulouse," p. 316. "Dying with hunger, we contended with
the dogs for the bones intended for them, and we pounded them up to make soup with."]

[Footnote 4118: "Recueil de Pièces, etc.," i., p.3. (Letter of Frédéric Burger, Prairial 2,
year II.)]

[Footnote 4119: Alfred Lallier, "Les Noyades de Nantes," p. 90.--Campardon, "Histoire de Tribunal
Révolutionnaire de Paris," (trial of Carrier), II., 55. (Deposition of the health-officer,
Thomas.) "I saw perish in the revolutionary hospital (at Nantes) seventy-five prisoners in
two days. None but rotten mattresses were found there, on each of which the epidemic had consumed
more than fifty persons. At the Entrepot, I found a number of corpses scattered about here
and there. I saw children, still breathing, drowned in tubs full of human excrement."]

[Footnote 4120: Narrative of the sufferings of unsworn priests, deported in 1794, in the roadstead
of Aix, passim.]

[Footnote 4121: "Histoire des Prisons," I., 10. "Go and visit," says a contemporary, (at the
Conciergerie), "the dungeons called 'the great Cæsar,' 'Bombie,' 'St. Vincent.' 'Bel Air,'
etc., and say whether death is not preferable to such an abode." Some persons, indeed, the
sooner to end the matter, wrote to the public prosecutor, accusing themselves, demanding a
king and priests, and are at once guillotined, as they hoped to be.--Cf. the narrative of "La
Translation des 132 à Nantois Paris," and Riouffe, "Mémoires," on the sufferings of prisoners
on their way to their last prison.]

[Footnote 4122: Berryat Saint-Prix, p. IX., passim.]

[Footnote 4123: Campardon, II., 224.]

[Footnote 4124: Berryat Saint-Prix, 445.--Paris, "Histoire de Joseph Lebon," II., 352.--Alfred
Lallier, p. 90.--Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 394.]

[Footnote 4125: Berryat Saint-Prix, pp.23, 24.]

[Footnote 4126: Berryat Saint-Prix, p.458. "At Orange, Madame de Latour-Vidan, aged eighty
and idiotic for many years, was executed with her son. It is stated that, on being led to the
scaffold, she thought she was entering a carriage to pay visits and so told her son."--Ibid.,
471. After Thermidor, the judges of the Orange commission having been put on trial, the jury
declared that "they refused to hear testimony for the defense and did not allow the accused
even informal lawyers to defend them."]

[Footnote 4127: Camille Boursier," La Terreur en Anjou," p.228. (Deposition of Widow Edin.)
"La Persac, a nun ill and infirm, was ready to take the oath. Nicolas, Vacheron's agent, assisted
by several other persons, dragged her out of bed and put her on a cart; from ninety to ninety-four
others were shot along with her."]

[Footnote 4128: Berryat Saint-Prix, p. 161. The following are samples of these warrants: "S.
(shot), Germinal 13, Widow Menard, seventy-two years old, an old aristocrat, liking nobody,
habitually living by herself."--"Warrant of the Marseilles committee, Germinal 28, year II.,
condemning one Cousinéri for having continually strayed off as if to escape popular vengeance,
to which he was liable on account of his conduct and for having detested the Revolution."--Camille
Boursier, p.72, Floréal 15, year II., execution of "Gerard, guilty of having scorned to assist
at the planting of a Liberty-pole, in the commune of Vouille, Sep., 1792, and inducing several
municipal officers to join him in his insolent and liberticide contempt."]

[Footnote 4129: Wallon, "Histoire du Tribunal Révolutionnaire de Paris," V., 145.]

[Footnote 4130: Ibid., v., 109. (Deposition of Madame de Maillé.)--V., 189. (Deposition of
Lhullier.)--Cf. Campardon, in the same affairs.]

[Footnote 4131: Campardon, II., 189, 190, 193, 197. (Depositions of Beaulieu, Duclos, Tirard,
Ducray, etc.)]

[Footnote 4132: Berryat Saint-Prix, 395. (Letter of Representative Moyse Bayle,)--Ibid., 216.
(Words of Representative Lecarpentier at Saint-Malo.) "Why such delays? Of what use are these
eternal examinations? What need is there of going so deep into this matter? The name, profession
and the upshot, and the trial is over."--"He publicly stated to the informers: You don't know
what facts you require to denounce the Moderates? Well, a gesture, one single gesture, suffices."]

[Footnote 4133: Letter of Payan to Roman Formosa, judge at Orange: "In the commissions charged
with punishing the conspirators, no formalities should exist; the conscience of the judge is
there as a substitute for these... The commissions must serve as political courts; they must
remember that all the men who have not been on the side of the Revolution are against it, since
they have done nothing for the country... I say to all judges, in the name of the country,
do not risk saving a guilty man."--Robespierre made the same declaration in the Jacobin Club.
Frimaire 19, year II.: "We judge, in politics, with the suspicions of an enlightened patriotism."]

[Footnote 4134: "Mémoires de Fréron" and on Fréron, (collection Barrière et Berville,) p.364.
Letter of Fréron, Toulon, Nivôse 16. "More than eight hundred Toulonese have already been shot."]

[Footnote 4135: Lallier, p.90. (The eleven distinct drownings ascertained by M. Lallier extend
up to Pluviôse 12, year II.)]

[Footnote 4136: Moniteur, XXII., 227. (Official documents read in the Convention, Ventôse 21,
year III.) These documents authenticate an ulterior drowning. Ventôse 9, year II., by order
of Lefévre, adjutant general, forty-one persons were drowned, among whom were two men seventy-eight
years of age and blind, twelve women, twelve young girls, fifteen children, of which ten were
between six and ten years old, and five at the breast. The drowning took place in the Bourgneuf
bay.-Carrier says in the Convention, (Moniteur, XXII., p.578), in relation to the drowning
of pregnant women: "At Laval, Angers, Saumur, Chaban-Gontier, everywhere the same things took
place as at Nantes."]

[Footnote 4137: Camille Boursier, p.159.]

[Footnote 4138: Ibid., 203. Representative Francastel announces "the firm determination to
purge, to bleed freely this Vendean question." This same Francastel wrote to General Grignon:
"Make those brigands tremble! Give them no quarter! The prisons in Vendée are overflowing with
prisoners!... The conversion of this country into a desert must be completed. Show no weakness
and no mercy... These are the views of the Convention.... I swear that Vendée shall be depopulated."]

[Footnote 4139: Granier de Cassagnac, "His. du Directoire," II., 241.--(Letter of General Hoche
to the Minister of the Interior, Feb. 2, 1796.) "Only one out of five remains of the population
of 1789."]

[Footnote 4140: Campardon, II., 247, 249, 251, 261, 321. (Examination of Fouquier-Tinville,
Cambon's words.)]

[Footnote 4141: Article by Guffroy, in his journal Le Rougiff: "Down with the nobles, and so
much the worse for the good ones, if there are any! Let the guillotine stand permanently throughout
the Republic. Five millions of inhabitants are enough for France!"--Berryat Saint-Prix, 445.
(Letter of Fauvety, Orange, Prairial 14, year II.) "We have but two confined in our arrondissement.
What a trifle!"--Ibid., 447. (Letter of the Orange Committee to the Committee of Public Safety,
Messidor 3.) "As soon as the Committee gets fully agoing it is to try all the priests, rich
merchants and ex-nobles."--(Letter of Juge, Messidor 2.) "Judging by appearances more than
three thousand heads will fall in the department."--Ibid., 311. At Bordeaux, a huge scaffold
is put up, authorized by the Military Committee, with seven doors, two of which are large and
like barn-doors, called a four-bladed guillotine, so as to work faster and do more. The warrant
and orders for its construction bear date Thermidor 3 and 8, year II.--Berryat Saint-Prix,
285. Letter of Representative Blutel, on mission at Rochefort, after Thermidor: "A few men,
sunk in debauchery and crime, dared proscribe (here) virtues, patriotism, because it was not
associated with their sanguinary excitement: the tree of Liberty, they said, required for its
roots ten feet of human gore."]

[Footnote 4142: "Recueil de Pièces Authentiques, concernant le Revolution à Strasbourg," I.,
174, 178. Examples of revolutionary taxes.--Orders of Representatives Milhaud, Ruamps, Guyadin,
approving of the following contributions, Brumaire 20, year II.

     On 3 individuals of Stutzheim......150,000 livres.
     "  3 " Offenheim....................30,000   "
     " 21 " Molsheim.....................367,000  "
     " 17 " Oberenheim....................402,000 "
     " 84 " Rosheim.......................503,000 "
     " 10 " Mutzig........................114,000 "]

Another order by Daum and Tisseraud, members of the committee who temporarily replace the district
administrators: "Whereas, it is owing to the county aristocrats that the Republic supports
the war," they approve of the following taxes:

    On the aristocrats of Geispolzheim, 400,000 livres.
    ditto of Oberschoeffolsheim 200,000 "
    ditto of Düttlenheim 150,000 "
    ditto of Duppigheim 100,000 "
    ditto of Achenheim 100,000 "]

List of contributions raised in the rural communes of the district of Strasbourg, according
to an assessment made by Stamm, procureur pro tem. of the district, amounting to three millions
one hundred and ninety-six thousand one hundred livres.]

[Footnote 4143: "Recueil des Pieces Authentiques," etc., I., 23. By order of the representatives
under date of Brumaire 25, year II. "The municipality of Strasbourg stripped the whole commune
of shoes in twenty-four hours, sending for them from house to house."--Ibid.. p.32. Orders
of Representatives Lemaire and Baudot, Frimaire I, year II., declaring that kitchen-utensils,
boilers, sauce-pans, stew-pans, kettles and other copper and lead vessels, as well as copper
and lead not worked-up, found at Strasbourg and in the departments, be levied on."--Archives
Nationales, AF., I., 92. (Orders of Taillefer, Brumaire 3, year II. Villefranche 1'Avergnon.)
Formation of a Committee of ten persons directed to make domiciliary visits, and authorized
to take possession of all the iron, lead, steel and copper found in the houses of "suspects,"
all of which kitchen utensils, are to be turned into cannon.--Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires," I., 15.]

[Footnote 4144: Moniteur, XXV., 188. (Speech by Blutels, July 9, 1795.)]

[Footnote 4145: "Recueil du Pièces Authentiques," etc., I., 24.--Grégoire, reports on Vandalism,
Fructidor 14, year II., and Brumaire 14, year III. (Moniteur, XXII., 86 and 751.)--Ibid., Letter
of December 24, 1796: "Not millions, but billions have been destroyed."--Ibid.,, "Mémoires,"
I., 334: "It is incalculable, the loss of religious, scientific and literary objects. The district
administrations of Blanc (Indre) notified me that to ensure the preservation of a library,
they had the books put in casks."--Four hundred thousand francs were expended in smashing statues
of the Fathers of the church, forming a circle around the dome of the Invalides.--A great many
objects became worthless through a cessation of their use: for example, the cathedral of Meaux
was put up at auction and found no purchaser at six hundred francs. The materials were valued
at forty-five thousand francs, but labor (for taking it down) was too high. (Narrative by an
inhabitant of Meaux.)]

[Footnote 4146: "Les Origines du Système Financier Actuel," by Eugene Sturm, p.53, 79.]

[Footnote 4147: Meissner, "Voyage à Paris," (end of 1795), p. 65. "The class of those who may
have really gained by the Revolution.... is composed of brokers, army contractors, and their
subordinates, a few government agents and fermiers, enriching themselves by their new acquisitions,
and who are cool and shrewd enough to hide their grain, bury their gold and steadily refuse
assignats."--Ibid., 68, 70. "On the road, he asks to whom a fine chateau belongs, and they
tell him with a significant look, 'to a former scruffy wretch.'--'Oh, monsieur,' said the landlady
at Vesoul, 'for every one that the Revolution has made rich, you may be sure that it has made
a thousand poor.'"]

[Footnote 4148: The following descriptions and appreciations are the fruit of extensive investigation,
scarcely one tenth of the facts and texts that have been of service being cited. I must refer
the reader, accordingly, to the series of printed and written documents of which I have made
mention in this and the three preceding volumes.]

[Footnote 4149: "The Ancient Regime," book II., ch 2, P IV.]

[Footnote 4150: Ibid., book IV., chs. I., II., III.]

[Footnote 4151: Lacretelle, "Histoire de France au 18eme Siecle," V., 2.--" The Ancient Regime,"
pp. 163, 300.]

[Footnote 4152: Morellet, "Mémoires," I., 166. (Letter by Roederer to Beccaria's daughter,
May 20, 1797).]

[Footnote 4153: Beccaria (Cesare Bonesana, marquis de) (Milan 1738--id. 1794). Italian jurist,
whose "Traité des délits et des peines" (1764) contributed to the reforms and the softening
of of European penal law. (SR)]

[Footnote 4154: Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires," II., 493. "While the Duke of Orleans was undergoing
his examination he read a newspaper."--Ibid., 497. "Nobody died with more firmness, spirit
and dignity than the Duke of Orleans. He again became a royal prince. On being asked in the
revolutionary tribunal whether he had any defense to make, he replied, 'Rather die to-day than
to-morrow: deliberate about it.'" His request was granted.--The Duc de Biron refused to escape,
considering that, in such a dilemma, it was not worth while. "He passed his time in bed, drinking
Bordeaux wine.... Before the tribunal, they asked his name and he replied, 'Cabbage, turnip,
Biron, as you like, one is as good as the other.' 'How!' exclaimed the judges, 'you are insolent!'
'And you--you are windbags! I Come to the point; Guillotine, that is all you have to say, while
I have nothing to say.'" Meanwhile they proceeded to interrogate him on his pretended treachery
in Vendée, etc. "'You do not know what you are talking about! You ignoramuses know nothing
about war! Stop your questions. I reported at the time to the Committee of Public Safety, which
approved of my conduct. Now, it has changed and ordered you to take my life. Obey, and lose
no more time.' Biron asked pardon of God and the King. Never did he appear better than on the
(executioner's) cart."]

[Footnote 4155: Morellet, II., 31.-"Mémoires de la Duchesse de Tourzel," "de Mlle. des Écherolles,"
etc.-Beugnot, "Mémoires, I., 200-203. "The wittiest remarks, the most delicate allusions, the
most brilliant repartees were exchanged on each side of the grating. The conversation was general,
without any subject being dwelt on. There, misfortune was treated as if it were a bad child
to be laughed at, and, in fact, they did openly make sport of Marat's divinity, Robespierre's
sacerdoce and the magistracy of Fouquier. They seemed to say to all these bloody menials: 'You
may slaughter us when you please, but you cannot hinder us in being aimable'"-Archives Nationales,
F.7, 31167. (Report by the watchman, Charmont, Nivôse 29, year II.) "The people attending the
executions are very much surprised at the firmness and courage they show (sic) on mounting
the scaffold. They say that it looks (sic) like going to a wedding. People cannot get used
to it, some declaring that it is supernatural."]

[Footnote 4156: Sauzay, I.. introduction.--De Tocqueville, "L'Ancien Regime et la Revolution,"
166. "I have patiently read most of the reports and debates of the provincial États,' and especially
those of Languedoc, where the clergy took much greater part than elsewhere in administrative
details, as well as the procès-verbaux of the provincial assemblies between 1779 and 1787,
and, entering on the study with the ideas of my time, I was surprised to find bishops and abbés,
among whom were several as eminent for their piety as their learning, drawing up reports on
roads and canals, treating such matters with perfect knowledge of the facts, discussing with
the greatest ability and intelligence the best means for increasing agricultural products,
for ensuring the well-being of the people and the property of industrial enterprises, oftentimes
much better than the laymen who were interested with them in the same affairs."]

[Footnote 4157: "The Ancient Regime," p.300.--"The Revolution," vol. I., p. 116. Buchez et
Roux, I., 481. The list of notables convoked by the King in 1787 gives an approximate idea
of this social staff. Besides the leading princes and seigniors we find, among one hundred
and thirty-four members, twelve marshals of France, eight Councillors of State, five maîtres
de requêtes, fourteen bishops and archbishops, twenty presidents and seventeen procureurs géneraux
des parlements, or of royal councils, twenty-five mayors, prévôts des marchands, capitouls,
and equerries of large towns, the deputies of the "Etats" of Burgundy, Artois, Brittany and
Languedoc, three ministers and two chief clerks.--The capacities were all there, on hand, for
bringing about a great reform; but there was no firm, strong, controlling hand, that of a Richelieu
or Frederic II.]

[Footnote 4158: See "The Revolution II" Ed. Lafont page 617. US edition P. 69. (SR.)]

[Footnote 4159: "Mémoires de Gaudin," duc de Gaëte.]

[Footnote 4160: Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires," II., 25, 24. "The War Committee is composed of engineer
and staff-officers, of which the principal are Meussuer, Favart, St. Fief, d'Arcon, Lafitte-Clavé
and a few others. D'Arcon directed the raising of the siege of Dunkirk and that of Maubenge....
These officers were selected with discernment; they planned and carried out the operations;
aided by immense resources, in the shape of maps, plans and reconnaissances preserved in the
war department, they really operated according to the experience and intelligence of the great
generals under the monarchy."]

[Footnote 4161: Miot de Melito, "Mémoires," I., 47.--Andre Michel, "Correspondance de Mallet-Dupan
avec la Cour de Vienne," I., 26. (January 3, 1795.) "The Convention feels so strongly the need
of suitable aids to support the burden of its embarrassments as to now seek for them among
pronounced royalists. For instance, it has just offered the direction of the royal treasury
to M. Dufresne, former chief of the department under the reign of the late King, and retired
since 1790. It is the same spirit and making a still more extraordinary selection, which leads
them to appoint M. Gerard de Rayneval to the Commissariat of Foreign Affairs, chief-clerk of
correspondence since the ministry of the Duc de Choiseul until that of the Comte de Montmorin
inclusive. He is a man of decided opinions and an equally decided character; in 1790 I saw
him abandon the department through aversion to the maxims which the Revolution had forcibly
introduced into it."]

[Footnote 4162: Marshal Marmont, "Mémoires." At nine years of age he rode on horseback and
hunted daily with his father.]

[Footnote 4163: Among other manuscript documents, a letter of M. Symn de Carneville, March
II, 1781. (On the families of Carneville and Montmorin-Saint-Herem, in 1789.) The latter family
remains in France; two of its members are massacred, two executed, a fifth "escaped the scaffold
by forestalling the justice of the people;" the sixth, enlisted in the revolutionary armies,
received a shot at nineteen years of age which made him blind. The other family emigrated,
and its chiefs, the count and viscount Carneville commanded, one, a free company in the Austrian
service, and the other, a regiment of hussars in Conde's army. Twelve officers of these two
corps were brothers-in-law, nephews, first-cousins and cousins of the two commanders, the first
of whom entered the service at fifteen, and the second at eleven.--Cf. "Mémoires du Prince
de Ligne." At seven or eight years of age I had already witnessed the din of battle, I had
been in a besieged town, and saw three sieges from a window. A little older, I was surrounded
by soldiers; old retired officers belonging to various services, and living in the neighborhood
fed my passion.--Turenne said "I slept on a gun-carriage at the age of ten. My taste for war
was so great as to lead me to enlist with a captain of the 'Royal Vaissiaux,' in garrison two
leagues off. If war had been declared I would have gone off and let nobody know it. I joined
his company, determined not to owe my fortune to any but valorous actions."--Cf. also "Mémoires
du Maréchal de Saxe." A soldier at twelve, in the Saxon legion, shouldering his musket, and
marching with the rest, he completed each stage on foot from Saxony to Flanders, and before
he was thirteen took part in the battle of Malplaquet.]

[Footnote 4164: Alexandrine des Echerolles, "Un Famille Noble sous la Terreur," p.25.--Cf.
"Correspondance de Madelle de Féring," by Honore Bonhomme. The two sisters, one sixteen and
the other thirteen, disguised as men, fought with their father in Dumouriez' army.--See the
sentiment of young nobles in the works of Berquin and Marmontel. (Les Rivaux d' Eux-meme.)]

[Footnote 4165: "The Revolution," I., 158, 325. Ibid., the affair of M. de Bussy, 306; the
affair of the eighty-two gentlemen of Caen, 316.--See in Rivarol ("Journal Politique Nationale")
details of the admirable conduct of the Body-guards at Versailles, Oct. 5 and 6, 1789.]

[Footnote 4166: The noble families under the ancient regime may be characterized as so many
families of soldiers' children.]

[Footnote 4167: "L'Ancien Régime et la Revolution," by M. de Tocqueville, p.169. My judgment,
likewise based on the study of texts, and especially manuscript texts, coincides here as elsewhere
with that of M. de Tocqueville. (See in Sauzay, biographical details and the grades of the
principal ecclesiastical dignitaries of the diocese Besançon.) The cathedral chapter, and that
of the Madeleine, could be entered only through nobility or promotion; it was requisite for
a graduate to have a noble for a father, or a doctor of divinity, and himself be a doctor of
divinity or in canon law. Analogous titles, although lower down, were requisite for collegiate
canons, and for chaplains or familiars.]

[Footnote 4169: "The Revolution," I., 233.--Cf. Emile Ollivier, "L'Eglise et l'Etat au Concile
du Vatican," I., 134, II., 511.]

[Footnote 4170: Morellet, "Mémoires," I., 8, 31. The Sorbonne, founded by Robert Sorbon, confessor
to St. Louis, was an association resembling one of the Oxford or Cambridge colleges, that is
to say, a corporation possessing a building, revenues, rules, regulations and boarders; its
object was to afford instruction in the theological sciences; its titular members, numbering
about a hundred, were mostly bishops, vicars-general, canons, curés in Paris and in the principal
towns. Men of distinction were prepared in it at the expense of the Church.--The examinations
for the doctorate were the tentative, the mineure, the Sorbonique and the majeure. A talent
for discussion and argument was particularly developed.--Cf. Ernest Renan, "Souvenirs d'Enfance
et de Jeunesse," p.279, (on St. Sulpice and the study of Theology).]

[Footnote 4171: Cf. the files of the clergy in the States-General, and the reports of ecclesiastics
in the provincial assemblies.]

[Footnote 4172: "The Revolution," p.72. (Ed. Lafont I, p 223 etc.)]

[Footnote 4173: In some dioceses, notably that of Besançon, the rural parishes were served
by distinguished men. (Sauzay, I., 16.) "It was not surprising to encounter a man of European
reputation, like Bergier, so long curé of Flangebouche; an astronomer of great merit, like
M. Mongin, curé of la Grand Combe des Bois, whose works occupy an honorable place in Lalande's
bibliography, all passing their lives in the midst of peasants. At Rochejean, a priest of great
intelligence and fine feeling, M. Boillon, a distinguished naturalist, had converted his house
into a museum of natural history as well as into an excellent school.... It was not rare to
find priests belonging to the highest social circles, like MM. de Trevillers, of Trevillers,
Balard de Bonnevaux of Bonétage, de Mesmay of Mesmay, du Bouvot, at Osselle, cheerfully burying
themselves in the depths of the country, some on their family estates, and, not content to
share their income with their poor parishioners, but on dying, leaving them a large part of
their fortunes."]

[Footnote 4174: De Tocqueville, "L'Ancien Regime," 134, 137.]

[Footnote 4175: Terms signifying certain minor courts of law.]

[Footnote 4176: Albert Babeau, "La Ville sous l'Ancien Régime," p. 26.--(Advertisements in
the "Journal de Troyes," 1784, 1789.) "For sale, the place of councillor in the Salt-department
at Sézannes. Income from eight to nine hundred livres. Price ten thousand livres."--"A person
desires to purchase in this town (Troyes) an office in the Magistracy or Finances, at from
twenty-five thousand to sixty thousand livres; cash paid down if required."]

[Footnote 4177: De Tocqueville, "L'Ancien Régime," p.356. The municipal body of Angers comprised,
among other members, two deputies of the présidial, two of the Forest and Streams department,
two of the Election, two of the Salt-department, two of the Customs, two of the Mint, two Council
judges. The system of the ancient regime, universally, is the grouping together of all individuals
in one body with a representative of all these bodies, especially those of the notables. (Cf.
note on preceding page.) The Collector's Office at Reteil, in 1746, is sold at one hundred
and fifty thousand livres; it brings in from eleven thousand to fourteen thousand livres.--The
purchaser, besides, has to pay to the State the "right of the golden marc" (a tax on the transfer
of property); in 1762, this right amounted to nine hundred and forty livres for the post of
Councillor to the bailiwick of Troyes. D'Esprémenil, councillor in the Paris Parliament, had
paid fifty thousand livres for his place, besides ten thousand livres taxation of the "golden
marc."]

[Footnote 4179: Emile Bos, "Les Avocats au conseil du Roi," p.340. Master Peruot, procureur,
was seated on the balcony of the Theatre Français when Count Moreton Chabrillant arrives and
wants his place. The procureur resists and the count calls the guard, who leads him off to
prison. Master Peruot enters a complaint; there is a trial, intervention of the friends of
M. de Chabrillant before the garde des sceaux, petitions of the nobles and resistance of the
entire guild of advocates and procureurs. M. de Chabrillant, senior, offers Peruot forty thousand
livres to withdraw his suit, which Peruot refuses to do. Finally, the Count de Chabrillant
is condemned, with six thousand livres damages, (which are given to the poor and to prisoners),
as well as to the expense of printing two hundred impressions of the verdict.--Duport de Cheverney,
"Mémoires," (unpublished), communicated by M. Robert de Crevecoeur: "Formerly a man paid fifty
thousand livres for an office with only three hundred livres income; the consideration, however,
he enjoyed through it, and the certainty of remaining in it for life, compensated him for the
sacrifice, while the longer he kept it, the greater was the influence of himself and children."]

[Footnote 4180: Albert Babeau, "La Ville," p. 27;--"Histoire de Troyes," p. 21.--This portrait
is drawn according to recollections of childhood and family narrations. I happen to have known
the details of two or three small provincial towns, one of about six thousand inhabitants where,
before 1800, nearly all the notables, forty families, were relations; to-day all are scattered.
The more one studies documents, the more does Montesquieu's definition of the incentive of
society under the ancient régime seem profound and just, this incentive consisting of honor.
In the bourgeoisie who were confounded with the nobility, namely the Parliamentarians, their
functions were nearly gratuitous; the magistrate received his pay in deference. (Moniteur,
V., 520. Session of August 30, 1790, speech by d'Espremenil.) "Here is what it cost a Councillor;
I take myself as an example. He paid fifty thousand livres for his place, and ten thousand
more for the tax of the 'marc d'or.' He received three hundred and eighty-nine livres ten sous
salary, from which three hundred and sixty-seven livres 'capitation' had to be deducted. The
King allowed us forty-five livres for extra service of 'La Tournelle'. How about the fees?
is asked. The (grande chambre) superior court, asserted to have received the largest amount,
was composed of one hundred and eighty members; the fees amounted to two hundred and fifty
thousand livres, which were not a burden on the nation, but on the litigants. M. Thouret, who
practiced in the Rouen parliament, will bear witness to this. I appeal to him to say conscientiously
what sum a Councillor derived from his office--not five hundred livres... When a judgment cost
the litigant nine hundred livres the King's portion was six hundred livres... To sum up, the
profits of an office were seven livres ten sous."]

[Footnote 4181: Albert Babeau, "La Ville," ch. II., and "Histoire de Troyes," I., ch. 1. At
Troyes, fifty merchants, notables, elected the judge-consul and two consuls; the merchants'
guild possessed its own hall and had its own meetings. At Paris, the drapers, mercers, grocers,
furriers, hatters and jewelers formed the six bodies of merchants. The merchants' guild everywhere
took precedence of other industrial communities and enjoyed special privileges. "The merchants,"
says Loyseau, "hold rank (qualité d'honneur), being styled honorable men, honest persons and
bourgeois of the towns, qualifications not attributed to husbandmen, nor to sergeants, nor
to artisans, nor to manual laborers."--On paternal authority and domestic discipline in these
old bourgeois families see the History of Beaumarchais and his father. (" Beaumarchais," by
M. de Lomenie, vol. I.)]

[Footnote 4182: Albert Babeau, "Le village sous l'Ancien Régime," p. 56, ch. III and IV., (on
the village syndics), and pp. 357 and 359. "The peasants had the right to deliberate on their
own affairs directly and to elect their principal agents. They understood their own needs,
were able to make a sacrifice for school and church.... for repairs of the town clock and the
belfry. They appointed their own agents and generally elected the most capable."--Ibid, "La
Ville sous 1'Ancien Regime," p.29. The artisans' guilds numbered at Paris one hundred and twenty-four.
at Amiens sixty-four, and at Troyes fifty, also Chalons-sur-Marne, at Angers twenty-seven.
The edicts of 1776 reduced them to forty-four at Paris, and to twenty as the maximum for the
principal towns within the jurisdiction of the Paris parliament.--"Each guild formed a city
within a city... Like the communes, it had its special laws, its selected chiefs, its assemblies,
its own building or, at least, a chamber in common, its banner, coat-of-arms and colors."--Ibid.,
"Histoire de Troyes Pendant la Revolution," I., 13, 329. Trade guilds and corporations bear
the following titles, drawn up in 1789, from the files of complaints: apothecaries, jewelers
and watch-makers, booksellers and printers, master-barbers, grocers, wax and candle-makers,
bakers and tailors, master shoemakers, eating-house-keepers, inn-keepers and hatters, master-masons
and plasterers in lime and cement, master-joiners, coopers and cabinet-makers, master-cutlers,
armorers, and polishers; founders, braziers, and pin-makers; master-locksmiths, ironmongers,
tinsmiths and other metal workers, vinegar-makers, master-shearers, master rope-makers, master-tanners,
dealers and master-dyers and dressers; master saddle and harness-makers, charcoal-burners,
carters, paper-makers and band-box-makers, cap-makers and associates in arts and trades.--In
some towns one or two of these natural guilds kept up during the Revolution and still exist,
as, for example, that of the butchers at Limoges.]

[Footnote 4183: F. Leplay, "Les Ouvriers Européens," V., 456, 2nd ed., (on workmen's guilds),
Charpentier, Paris.]

[Footnote 4184: F. Leplay, "Les Quvriers Européens," (2nd ed.) IV., 377, and the monographs
of four families (Bordier of Lower Brittany, Brassier of Armagnac, Savonnier of Lower Provence,
Paysan of Lavedan, ch. 7, 8 and 9).--Ibid., "L'Organization de la Famille," p.62, and the whole
volume.--M. Leplay, in his exact, methodical and profound researches, has rendered a service
of the highest order to political science and, consequently, to history. He has minutely observed
and described the scattered fragments of the old organization of society; his analysis and
comparison of these fragments shows the thickness and extent of the stratum almost gone, to
which they belonged. My own observations on the spot, in many provinces in France, as well
as the recollections of my youth, agree with M. Leplay's discoveries.--On the stable, honest
and prosperous families of small rural proprietors, Cf. Ibid., p. 68, (Arthur Young's observation
in Béarn), and p.75. Many of these families existed in 1789, more of them than at the present
time, especially in Gascony, Languedoc, Auvergne, Dauphiny, Franch-Comté, Alsace and Normandy.--Ibid.,
"L'Organization du Travail," pp.499, 503, 508. (Effects of the "Code Civile" on the transmission
of a manufactory and a business establishment in France, and on cultivation in Savoy; the number
of suits in France produced by the system of forced partition of property.)]

[Footnote 4185: F. Leplay, "L'Organization de la Famille," p.212. (History of the Mélonga family
from 1856 to 1869 by M. Cheysson.) Also p.269. (On the difficulty of partitions among ascendants,
by M. Claudio Jannet.)]

[Footnote 4186: Rétif de la Bretonne, "Vie de mon Pere," (paternal authority in a peasant family
in Burgundy). The reader, on this point, may test the souvenirs of his grand-parents. With
reference to the bourgeoisie I have cited the family of Beaumarchais. Concerning the nobles,
see the admirable letter by Buffon June 22, 1787, (correspondence of Buffon, two vols., published
by M. Nadaud de Buffon), telling his son how he ought to act on account of his wife's behavior.]

[Footnote 4187: Moniteur, XIX., 669.]

[Footnote 4188: Dauban, "Paris en 1794," p.245. (Report by Bacon, Ventôse 25, year II.)]

[Footnote 4189: Ibid. (Report by Perrière, Ventôse 26.)]

[Footnote 4190: Ironical, slang for a hog. TR.]

[Footnote 4191: Ibid., 245. (Report by Bacon, speech of an orator to the general assembly of
the section "Contrat-Social," Ventôse 25.)]

[Footnote 4192: "Un Sejour en France." (Sep., 1792.) Letter of a Parisian: "It is not yet safe
to walk the streets in decent clothes. I have been obliged to procure and put on pantaloons,
jacket, colored cravat and coarse linen, before attempting to go outdoors."--Beaulieu, "Essais,"
V., 281. "Our dandies let their moustaches grow long; while they rumpled their hair, dirtied
their hands and donned nasty garments. Our philosophers and literary men wore big fur caps
with long fox-tails dangling over their shoulders; some dragged great trailing sabers along
the pavement--they were taken for Tartars.... In public assemblies, in the theatre boxes, nothing
was seen in the front rows but monstrous red bonnets. All the galériens of all the convict
prisons in Europe seem to have come and set the fashion in this superb city which had given
it to all Europe."--"Un Séjour en France," p. 43. (Amiens, September, 1792.) "Ladies in the
street who are well-dressed or wear colors that the people regard as aristocratic are commonly
insulted. I, myself, have been almost knocked down for wearing a straw hat trimmed with green
ribbons."--Nolhac, "Souvenirs de Trois Années de la Révolution at Lyons," p.132. "It was announced
that whoever had two coats was to fetch one of them to the Section, so as to clothe some good
republican and ensure the reign of equality."]

[Footnote 4193: Buchez et Roux, XXVI., 455. (Speech by Robespierre, in the Jacobin club, May
10, 1793.): "The rich cherish hopes for an anti-revolution; it is only the wretched, only the
people who can save the country."--Ibid., XXX. (Report by Robespierre to the Convention, December
25, 1793.): "Virtue is the appanage of the unfortunate and the people's patrimony."--Archives
Nationales, AF.,II., 72. (Letter of the municipality of Montauban, Vendémiaire 23, year IV.)
Many workmen in the manufactories have been perverted "by excited demagogues and club orators
who have always held out to them equality of fortunes and presented the Revolution as the prey
of the class they called sans-culottes.... The law of the 'maximum,' at first tolerably well
carried out, the humiliation of the rich, the confiscation of the immense possessions of the
rich, seemed to be the realization of these fine promises."]

[Footnote 4194: Archives Nationales, F.7, 4421. Petition of Madeleine Patris.--Petition of
Quétrent Cogniér, weaver, "sans-culotte, and one of the first members of the Troyes national
guard."--(The Style and orthography of the most barbarous kind.)]

[Footnote 4195: bid., AF., II. 135. (Extract from the deliberations of the Revolutionary Committee
of the commune of Strasbourg, list of prisoners and reasons for arresting them.) At Oberschoeffolsheim,
two farmers "because they are two of the richest private persons in the commune."--"Recueil
de Pieces, etc.," I.. 225. (Declaration by Welcher, revolutionary commissioner). "I, the undersigned,
declare that, on the orders of citizen Clauer, commissioner of the canton, I have surrendered
at Strasbourg seven of the richest in Obershoeffolsheim without knowing why." (Speech by Hébert
in the Jacobin club, Brumaire 26.)-Schmidt, "Tableaux de la Révolution Française," 19. (Reports
of Dutard, June II.--Archives Nationales. F7., 31167. (Report of the Pourvoyeur, Nivôse 6,
year II.) "The people complain (se plain) that there are still some conspirators in the interior,
such as butchers and bakers, but particularly the former, who are (son) an intolerable aristocracy.
They (il) will sell no more meat, etc. It is frightful to see what they (il) give the people."]

[Footnote 4198: "Recueil de Police," etc., I., 69 and 91. At Strasbourg a number of women of
the lower class are imprisoned as "aristocrats and fanatics," with no other alleged motive.
The following are their occupations: dressmaker, upholsteress, housewife, midwife, baker, wives
of coffee-house keepers, tailors, potters and chimney-sweeps.--Ibid., II., 216. "Ursule Rath,
servant to an émigré arrested for the purpose of knowing what her master had concealed....
Marie Faber, on suspicion of having served in a priest's house."--Archives Nationales, AF.,
II., 135. (List of the occupations of the suspected women detained in the cells of the National
college.) Most of them are imprisoned for being either mothers, sisters, wives or daughters
of émigrés or exiled priests, and many are the wives of shopkeepers or mechanics. One, a professional
nurse, is an "aristocrat and fanatic." (Another list describes the men); a cooper as "aristocrat;"
a tripe-seller as "very incivique, never having shown any attachment to the Revolution;" a
mason has never shown "patriotism," a shoemaker is aristocrat at all times, having accepted
a porter's place under the tyrant;" four foresters "do not entertain patriotic sentiments,"
etc.--"Recueil de Pièces, etc.," II., 220. Citoyenne Genet, aged 75, and her daughter, aged
44, are accused of having sent, May 22, 1792, thirty-six francs in silver to the former's son,
an émigré and were guillotined.--Cf. Sauzay, vols. III., IV., and V. (appendices), lists of
émigrés and prisoners in Doubs, where titles and professions, with motives for confining them,
will be found.--At Paris, even (Archives Nationales, F.7, 31167. report of Latour-Lamontagne,
September 20, 1793), aversion to the government descends very low. "Three women (market-women)
all agree on one point-the necessity of a new order of things. They complain of the authorities
without exception.... If the King is not on their lips, it is much to be feared that he is
already in their hearts. A woman in the Faubourg St. Antoine, said: If our husbands made the
Revolution we know how to make a counter-revolution if that should be necessary."]

[Footnote 4199: See above ch. V., P 4.--Archives Nationales, F.7, 4435, No. 10. (Letter of
Collot d'Herbois to Couthon, Frimaire 11, year II.)]

[Footnote 41100: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol.331. (Letter of Bertrand, Nîmes, Frimaire
3.) "We are sorry to see patriots here not very delicate in the way they cause arrests, in
ascertaining who are criminal, and the precious class of craftsmen is no exception."]

[Footnote 41101: Berryat Saint-Prix, "La Justice Révolutionnaire," 1st ed., p.229.]

[Footnote 41102: "Un Séjour en France," p. 186. "I notice that most of the arrests now made
are farmers." (In consequence of the requisitions for grain, and on account of the applications
of the law of the maximum.)]

[Footnote 41103: "Bulletin du Tribunal Révolutionnaire," No.431. (Testimony of Tontin, secretary
of the court.) Twelve hundred of these poor creatures were set free after Thermidor 9.]

[Footnote 41104: Moniteur, session of June 29, 1797. (Report of Luminais.) Danican, "Les Brigands
Démasqués," p. 194.]

[Footnote 41105: Meillan, "Mémoires," p. 166.]

[Footnote 41106: Berryat Saint-Prix, "La Justice Révolutionnaire," p. 419.--Archives Nationales,
AF., II., 145. (Orders issued by Representative Maignet, Floréal 14, 15 and 17, year II.) "The
criminal court will try and execute the principal criminals; the rest of the inhabitants will
abandon their houses in twenty-four hours, and take their furniture along with them. The town
will then be burnt. All rebuilding or tillage of the soil is forbidden. The inhabitants will
be apportioned among neighboring communes; nobody is allowed to leave the commune assigned
to him under penalty of being treated as an emigré. All must appear once every ten days at
the municipality under penalty of being declared 'suspect' and imprisoned."]

[Footnote 41107: "Recueil de Piecès, etc.," I., 52. (Carret de Beudot and La Coste, Pluviôse
6, year II.) "Whereas, it being impossible to find jurors within an extent of one hundred leagues,
two-thirds of the inhabitants having emigrated."--Moniteur, Aug.28 and 29, 1797. (Report by
Harmand de la Meuse.)--Ibid., XIX., 714. (Session of Ventôse 26, year II., speech by Baudot.)
"Forty thousand persons of all ages and both sexes in the districts alone of Haguenau and Wissembourg,
fled from the French territory on the lines being retaken. The names are in our hands, their
furniture in the depot at Saverne and their property is made over to the Republic."]

[Footnote 41108: Albert Babeau, "Histoire de Troyes," II., 160. "A gardener had carefully accumulated
eight thousand two hundred and twenty-three livres in gold, the fruit of his savings; threatened
with imprisonment, he was obliged to give them up."]

[Footnote 41109: Archives Nationales, AF.,II., 116. (Orders of Representative Paganel, Toulouse,
Brumaire 12, year II.) "The day has arrived when apathy is an insult to patriotism, and indifference
a crime. We no longer reply to the objections of avarice; we will force the rich to fulfill
the duties of fraternity which they have abjured."--Ibid. (Extract from the minutes of the
meetings of the Central committee of Montauban, April II, 1793, with the approval of the representative,
Jeanbon-Saint-André.) "The moment has at length come when moderatism, royalism and pusillanimity,
and all other traitorous or useless sects to the country, should disappear from the soil of
Liberty." All opinions opposed to those of sans-culotterie are blamable and merit punishment.]

[Footnote 41110: Archives Nationales, F.7, 2471. (Minutes of the Revolutionary Committee of
the Tuileries section, meeting of September 17, 1793.) List of seventy-four persons put under
arrest and among them, M. de Noailles, with the following note opposite his name: "The entire
family to be arrested, including their heir Guy, and Hervet, their old intendant, rue St. Honoré."]

[Footnote 41111: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol. 322. (Letters of Ladonay, Chalons,
September 17 and 20, 1792.) "At Meaux, the brigands have cut the throats of fifteen prisoners,
seven of whom are priests whose relations belong to the town or its environs. Hence an immense
number of malcontents."--Sauzay, I., 97. "The country curés are generally recruited from among
the rural bourgeoisie and the most respected farmers' families."]

[Footnote 41112: Sauzay, passim, especially vols. 3, 4, 5, and 6.]

[Footnote 41113: Archives Nationales, F.7, 4437. Address of the popular club of Clavisson (Gard.),
Messidor 7, year II.--Rodolphe Reuss, "Séligman Alexandre, sur les Tribulations d'un Israelite
Strasbourgeois Pendant la Terreur," p. 37. Order issued by General Diéche to Coppin, in command
of the "Seminaire" prison. "Strive with the utmost zeal to suppress the cackle of aristocrats."
Such is the sum of the instructions to jail keepers.]

[Footnote 41114: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 88. (Edict issued by Representative Milhaud,
Narbonne, Ventôse 9, year II.) Article II. "The patriotic donation will be doubled if, in three
days, all boats are not unloaded and all carts loaded as fast as they arrive." Article IV.
"The municipality is charged, on personal responsibility, to proportion the allotment on the
richest citizens of Narbonne." Article VII. "If this order is not executed within twenty-four
hours, the municipality will designate to the commandant of the post the rich egoists who may
have refused to furnish their contingent, etc." Article VIII. "The commandant is specially
charged to report (the arrests of the refractory rich) to the representative of the people
within twenty-four hours, he being responsible on his head for the punctual execution of the
present order."--Ibid., AF., II. 135. (Orders of Saint-Just and Lebas, Strasbourg, Brumaire
10, year II.) The following is equally ironical; the rich of Strasbourg are represented as
"soliciting a loan on opulent persons and severe measures" against refractory egoists.]

[Footnote 41115: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 92. Orders of Representative Taillefer, Villefranche,
Aveyron, Brumaire 3, year II., and of his delegate, Deitheil, Brumaire 11, year II.]

[Footnote 41116: This is the case in Lyons, Bordeaux, Marseilles, and at Paris, as we see in
the signatures of the petition of the eight thousand, or that of the twenty thousand, and for
members of the Feuillants clubs, etc.]

[Footnote 41117: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 116. (Minutes of the public session of Ventôse
20, year II., held at Montargis, in the Temple of Reason, by Benon, "national agent of the
commune and special agent of the people's representative." Previous and subsequent orders,
by Representative Lefert.) Eighty-six persons signed, subject to public penance, among them
twenty-four wives or widows, which, with the four names sent to the Paris tribunal and the
thirty-two imprisoned, makes one hundred and twenty-two. It is probable that the one hundred
and six who are wanting to complete the list of two hundred and twenty-eight had emigrated,
or been banished in the interval as unsworn priests.--Ibid., D.S., I., 10. (Orders by Delacroix,
Bouchet and Legendre, Conches, Frimaire 8 and 9, year II.) The incarceration of the municipal
officers of Conches for an analogous petition and other marks of Feuillantism.]

[Footnote 41118: The real sentiments and purposes of the Jacobins are well shown at Strasbourg.
("Recueil de Pieces, etc.," I., 77. Public meeting of the municipal body, and speech by Bierlyn,
Prairial 25, year II.) " How can the insipid arrogance of these (Strasbourg) people be represented
to you, their senseless attachment to the patrician families in their midst, the absurd feuil1antism
of some and the vile sycophancy of others? How is it, they say, that moneyless interlopers,
scarcely ever heard of before, dare assume to have credit in a town of sensible inhabitants
and honest families, from father to son, accustomed to governing and renowned for centuries?"--Ibid.,
113. (Speech of the mayor Mouet, Floréal 21, year II.) "Moral purification (in Strasbourg)
has become less difficult through the reduction of fortunes and the salutary terror excited
among those covetous men.. . Civilization has encountered mighty obstacles in this great number
of well-to-do families who have nourished souvenirs of, and who regret the privileges enjoyed
by, these families under the Emperors; they have formed a caste apart from the State carefully
preserving the gothic pictures of their ancestors they were united only amongst themselves.
They are excluded from all public functions. Honest artisans, now taken from all pursuits,
impel the revolutionary cart with a vigorous hand."]

[Footnote 41119: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol. 1411. (Report of Pourveyeur, Ventôse
29.) "They remark (sic) that one is not (sic) a patriot with twenty-thousand livres (sic) income,
and especially a former advocate-general."]

[Footnote 41121: De Martel, "Fouché," p.226, 228. For instance, at Nevers, a man of sixty-two
years of age, is confined "as rich, egoist, fanatic, doing nothing for the Revolution, a proprietor,
and having five hundred livres revenue."]

[Footnote 41122: Buchez et Roux, XXVI., '77. (Speech by Cambon, April 27, 1793.)]

[Footnote 41123: "Who are our enemies? The vicious and the rich."--"All the rich are vicious,
in opposition to the Revolution." (Notes made by Robespierre in June and July, 1793, and speech
by him in the Jacobin club, May 10, 1793.)]

[Footnote 41124: Guillon, II., 355. (Instructions furnished by Collot d'Herbois and Fouché,
Brumaire 26, year II.)]

[Footnote 41125: De Martel, 171, 181. (Orders of Fouché, Nevers, August 25 and October 8, 1793.)]

[Footnote 41126: Guillon.-Archives des Affaires étrangères, F. 1411. Reports by observers at
Paris, Aug. 12 and 13, 1793. (Documents relating to the revolutionary tax at Belfort.) "Vieillard,
Moderate and egoist, ten thousand francs; Keller, rich egoist, seven thousand; as aristocrats,
of whom the elder and younger brother are imprisoned, Barthélémy the younger ten thousand,
Barthélémy senior, three thousand five hundred, Barthelemy junior seven thousand, citoyenne
Barthélémy, mother, seven thousand, etc."]

[Footnote 41128: "Recueil de Pièces, etc.," I., 22. (Letter of the Strasbourg authorities.)
De Martel, p. 288. (Letter of the authorities of Allier.) "Citizens Sainay, Balome, Heulard
and Lavaleisse were exposed on the scaffold in the most rigorous season for six hours (at Moulins)
with this inscription--'bad citizen who has given nothing to the charity-box.'"]

[Footnote 41129: "Recueil de Pièces, etc.," I., 16.]

[Footnote 41130: Ibid., I., 159. (Orders of Brumaire 15, year II.)]

[Footnote 41131: Archives Nationales, F.7, 2475. (Minutes of the Revolutionary committee of
the Piques section.) September 9, 1793, at 3 o'clock in the morning, the committee declares
that, for its part, "it has arrested twenty-one persons of the category below stated." October
8, it places two sans-culottes as guards in the houses of all those named below, in the quarter,
even those who could not be arrested on account of absence. "It is time to take steps to make
sure of all whose indifference (sic) and moderatism is ruining the country."]

[Footnote 41132: Berryat Saint-Prix, pp.36, 38. carrier declares suspect "merchants and the rich."]

[Footnote 41133: Moniteur, XVIII., 641. (Letter of the representatives imprisoned at Bordeaux,
Frimaire 10, year II.)]

[Footnote 41134: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol.329. (Letter of Brutus, October 3, 1793.)]

[Footnote 41135: Ibid., vol.329. (Letter of Charles Duvivier, Lille, Vendémiaire 15, year II.)]

[Footnote 41136: Speech by Barère, Ventôse 17, year II.]

[Footnote 41137: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol. 331. Letter by Darbault, political
agent, Tarbes, Frimaire II, year II. (Project for doing away with middle men in trade, brokers
and bankers.) "The profession of a banker is abolished. All holders of public funds are forbidden
to sell them under a year and one day after the date of their purchase. No one must be at the
same time wholesale and retail dealer, etc." Projects of this sort are numerous. As to the
establishment of a purely agricultural and military Republic, see the papers of Saint-Just,
and the correspondence of the Lyons Terrorists. According to them the new France needs no silk-weavers.
The definite formulas of the system are always found among the Babeuvists. "Let the arts perish,
if it must be so, provided real Equality remains." (Sylvain Maréchal," Maniféste des Egaux.")]

[Footnote 41138: "Revue Historique," November, 1878. (Letter of M. Falk, Paris, Oct.19, 1795.)]

[Footnote 41139: "Etude sur l'histoire de Grenoble Pendant la Terreur," by Paul Thibault. (List
of notorious "suspects" and of ordinary "suspects" for each district in the Isere, April and
May, 1793.)--Cf. the various lists of Doubs in Sauzay, and of Troyes, in Albert Babeau.]

[Footnote 41140: "Recueil de Pièces, etc.," I., 19, and the second letter of Frederic Burger,
Thermidor 25.--Archives Nationales, AF., II.,111.(Order of Representatives Merlincourt and
Amar, Grenoble, April 27, 1793.) "The persons charged with the actual government of and instruction
in the public establishments known in this town under the titles of, 1st, Orphelines; 2nd Presentins;
3rd Capuchins; 4th, Le Propagation; 5th, Hospice for female servants.... are put under arrest
and are forbidden to take any part whatever in the functions relating to teaching, education
or instruction."]

[Footnote 41141: Moniteur, XXI., 645. (Session of the Convention, Fructidor 14, year II.)--"Bibliotèque
nationale," LB41, 1802, (Denounciation of the six sections of the commune of Dijon), 3: "Woe
betide those are seen in any way, either due to an honest affluence, a good education, an elegant
dress or some talent or other, as being different from their fellow citizens! They are likely
to be persecuted or to be killed."]

[Footnote 41142: Perhaps there is a connection with Mao Zedong and the Chinese Cultural Revolution.
(SR.)]

[Footnote 41143: Moniteur, XVIII., 51. (Letter by Carrier, Brumaire 17, year II.)--Berryat
Saint-Prix, pp.36 and 38.]

[Footnote 41144: Berriat-Saint-Prix, 240 (The imprisoned at Brest.)--Duchaltelier ("Brest pendant
la Terreur," 205). "Of the 975 prisoners, 106 were former nobles, 239 female nobles, 174 priests
or monks, 206 nuns, 111 seamstresses, female workers etc, 56 were farmers, 46 artisans or workers,
17 merchants, 3 with a liberal profession. One is imprisoned for having secret opinions, a
girl, for being witty and laughing at the patriots."]

[Footnote 41145: Mallet-Dupan, "Correspondance Politique." Introduction, p. VIII. (Hamburg, 1796.)]

[Footnote 41146: Portalis, "De la Révision des Jugements," 1795. (Saint-Beuve, "Causeries du
Lundi," V., 452.)--Moniteur. XXII, 86 (Report of Grégoire, 14 Fructidor, year II): "Dumas said
that all clever men (les hommes d'esprit) should be sent to the guillotine... Henriot proposed
to burn the National Library.... and his proposal is repeated in Marseille... The systematic
persecution of talented persons was organized.... Shouts had been heard in the sections: Beware
of that man as he as written a book."]

[Footnote 41147: "Tableau des Prisons de Toulouse" by Pescayre, prisoner, year III, p. 317
( Messidor 22nd, year II). Pinson, secretary of the reception, indoctrinated as follows the
old duke de Lesparre: "Citoyen, your detention is used by your country as a means of conversion.
Eight of your immediate family have, because they did not take advantage of his opportunity,
carried their heads to the scaffold. What have you done to avoid the sword of justice? Speak!
What are your feelings? Let us hear your principles. Have you at last renounced the arrogance
of the ancient regime? Do you believe in equality established by nature and ordained by the
Convention? Who are the sans-culottes you associate with? Is your cell not a meeting place
for the aristocrats?... It is I, who in the future will be your company; I, who will make you
familiar with the republican principles, who will make you love them, and who will take care
of your improvement."]

[Footnote 41148: Taillandier, Mémoires écrits par Daunau, à Port-Libre, in Aug. 1794, p.51, 52.]

[Footnote 41149: Granier du Cassagnac, "Histoire du Directoire," i., 107. (Trial of Babeuf,
extracts from Buonarotti, programme des "Egaux.") "All literature in favor of Revelation must
be prohibited: children are to be brought up in common; the child will no longer bear his father's
name; no Frenchman shall leave France; towns shall be demolished, chateaux torn down and books
proscribed; all Frenchmen shall wear one special costume; armies shall be commanded by civil
magistrates; the dead shall be prosecuted and obtain burial only according to the favorable
decision of the court; no written document shall be published without the consent of the government,
etc."--Cf. "Les Meditations de Saint-Just."]

[Footnote 41150: Guillon de Montléon, II., 174.]

[Footnote 41151: "Memoires sur les Prisons," I., 211, II., 187.--Beaulieu, "Essais," V., 320.
"The prisons became the rendezvous of good society."]

[Footnote 41152: "The Revolution," vol.3, ch. 6, ante.]

[Footnote 41153: Chateaubriand: "Génie du Christianisme," part 4, book II., notes on the exhumations
at St. Denis taken by a monk, an eye-witness. Destruction, August 6 and 8, 1793, of fifty-one
monuments. (Testimony of Bordier-Langlois.) "I saw the head of our good Duke Réné, deposited
in the chapel of St. Bernardin, in the Cordéliers at Angers, tossed like a ball by some laborers
from one to the other."]

[Footnote 41154: R. Chantelauze, "Louis XVII.," (according to unpublished documents). This
book, free of declamation and composed according to the critical method, sets this question
at rest.]

[Footnote 41155: Wallon, "Histoire du Tribunal Revolutionnaire," III., 285.--Campardon, "Hist.
du Tribunal Révolutionnaire de Paris," I., 306. (TR).]

[Footnote 41157: Wallon, III., 402.]

[Footnote 41158: Campardon, II., 350.--Cf. Causeries du Lundi," II., 164. Saint-Beuve's comment
on the examination. "André Chénier, natife de Constantinoble....son frère vice-consulte en
Espagne. "Remark the questions on his health and correspondence and the cock-and-bull story
about the 'maison a cotté.' "--They ask him where his servant was on the 10th of August, 1792,
and he replies that he could not tell. "A lui representé qua lepoque de cette journee que touts
les bons citoyent ny gnoroit point leurs existence et quayant enttendue batte la générale cettait
un motife de plus pour reconnoitre tous les bons citoyent et le motife au quelle il setait
employée pour sauvee la Republique. A repondue quil avoit dite l'exacte véritée. A lui demandée
quel etoit dite l'exacte veritée--a repondue que cetoit toutes ce qui etoit cy dessue."]

CHAPTER II. FOOD AND PROVISIONS.

I. Economical Complexity of Food Chain.

     Complexity of the economical operation by which articles of
     prime necessity reach the consumer.--Conditions of the
     operation.--Available resources.--Cases in which these are
     not available.--Case of the holder of these being no longer
     disposed to make them.

Suppose a man forced to walk with his feet in the air and his head downward. By using extremely
energetic measures he might, for a while, be made to maintain this unwholesome attitude, and
certainly at the expense of a bruised or broken skull; it is very probable, moreover, that
he would use his feet convulsively and kick terribly. But it is certain that if this course
were persisted in, the man would experience intolerable pain and finally sink down; the blood
would stop circulating and suffocation would ensue; the trunk and limbs would suffer as much
as the head, and the feet would become numb and inert.--Such is more or less the history of
France under its Jacobin pedagogues; their rigid theory and persistent brutality impose on
the nation an attitude against nature; consequently she suffers, and each day suffers more
and more; the paralysis increases; the functions get out of order and cease to act, while the
last and principal one,[4201] the most urgent, namely, physical support and the daily nourishment
of the living individual, is so badly accomplished, against so many obstacles, interruptions,
uncertainties and deficiencies, that the patient, reduced to extreme want, asks if to-morrow
will not be worse than to-day, and whether his semi-starvation will not end in complete starvation.

Nothing, apparently, is simpler, and yet really more complex, than the physiological process
by which, in the organized body, the proper restorative food flows regularly to the spot where
it is needed, among the innumerably diverse and distant cells. In like manner, nothing is simpler
at the first glance, and yet more complex, than the economical process by which, in the social
organism, provisions and other articles of prime necessity, flow of themselves to all points
of the territory where they are needed and within reach of each consumer. It is owing to this
that, in the social body as in the organized body, the terminal act presupposes many others
anterior to and co-ordinate with it, a series of elaborations, a succession of metamorphoses,
one elimination and transportation after another, mostly invisible and obscure, but all indispensable,
and all of them carried out by infinitely delicate organs, so delicate that, under the slightest
pressure, they get out of order, so dependent on each other that an injury to one affects the
operations of the rest, and thus suppresses or perverts the final result to which, nearly or
remotely, they all contribute.

Consider, for a moment, these precious economical organs and their mode of operation. In any
tolerably civilized community that has lasted for any length of time, they consist, first in
rank, of those who possess wealth arising from the accumulation of old and recent savings,
that is to say, those who possess any sort of security, large or small, in money, in notes,
or in kind, whatever its form, whether in lands, buildings or factories, in canals, shipping
or machinery, in cattle or tools, as well as in every species of merchandise or produce.--And
see what use they make of these: each person, reserving what he needs for daily consumption,
devotes his available surplus to some enterprise, the capitalist his ready money, the real-estate
owner his land and tenements, the farmer his cattle, seed and farming implements, the manufacturer
his mills and raw material, the common-carrier his vessels, vehicles and horses, the trader
his warehouses and stock of goods for the year, and the retailer his shop and supplies for
a fortnight. To which everybody, the agriculturist, merchant and manufacturer, necessarily
adds his cash on hand, the deposits in his bank for paying the monthly salaries of his clerks,
and at the end of the week, the wages of his workmen.--Otherwise, it would be impossible to
till the soil, to build, to fabricate, to transport, to sell; however useful the work might
be, it could not be perfected, or even begun, without a preliminary outlay in money or in kind.
In every enterprise, the crop presupposes labor and seed corn. If I want to dig a hole I am
obliged to hire a pick and the arms to wield it, or, in other terms, to make certain advances.
But these advances are made only on two conditions: first, that he who makes them is able to
make them, that is to say, that he is the possessor of an available surplus; and next, being
the owner of this surplus, that he desires to make them, with this proviso that he may gain
instead of losing by the operation.--If I am wholly or partially ruined, if my tenants and
farmers do not pay their rent,[4202] if my lands or goods do not bring half their value in
the market, if the net proceeds of my possessions are threatened with confiscation or pillage,
not only have I fewer securities to dispose of, but, again, I become more and more uneasy about
the future; over and above my immediate consumption I have to provide for a prospective consumption;
I add to my reserve stores especially of coin and provisions; I hold on to the remnant of my
securities for myself and those who belong to me; they are no longer available and I can no
longer make loans or enter upon my enterprise. And, on the other hand, if the loan or enterprise,
instead of bringing me a profit, brings me loss; if the law is powerless or fails to do me
justice and adds extra to ordinary risks; if my work once perfected is to become the prey of
the government, of brigands or of whoever pleases to seize it; if I am compelled to surrender
my wares and merchandise at one-half their cost; if I cannot produce, put in store, transport
or sell except by renouncing all profit and with the certainty of not getting back my advances,
I will no longer make loans or enter upon any under-taking whatever.

Such is the disposition and situation of people able to make advances in anarchical times,
when the State falters and no longer performs its customary service, when property is no longer
adequately protected by the public force, when jacqueries overspread the country and insurrections
break out in the towns, when chateaux are sacked, archives burnt, shops broken into, provisions
carried off and transportation is brought to a halt, when rents and leases are no longer paid,
when the courts dare no longer convict, when the constable no longer dares serve a warrant,
when the gendarmerie holds back, when the police fails to act, when repeated amnesties shield
robbers and incendiaries, when a revolution brings into local and central power dishonest and
impoverished adventurers hostile to every one that possesses property of any kind.--Such is
the disposition and situation of all who are in possession of the means to initiate projects
in socialistic times

* when the usurping State, instead of protecting private property, destroys or seizes it;

* when it takes for itself the property of many of the great corporations;

* when it suppresses legally established credits without indemnity;

* when, by dint of expenditure and the burdens this creates, it becomes insolvent;

* when, through its paper-money and forced circulation, it annuls indebtedness in the hands
of the creditor, and allows the debtor to go scot-free;

* when it arbitrarily seizes current capital;

* when it makes forced loans and requisitions;

* when its tax on productions surpasses the cost of production and on merchandise the profit
on its sale;

* when it constrains the manufacturer to manufacture at a loss and the merchant to sell at a loss;

* when its principles, judged by its acts, indicate a progression from partial to a universal
confiscation.--

Ineluctably every phase of disease engenders the evil which follows: it is like a poison the
effects of which spread or pass onwards. Each function, affected by the derangement of the
adjacent one, becoming disturbed in its turn. The perils, mutilation and suppression of property
diminish available securities as well as the courage that risks them, that is to say, the mode
of, and disposition to, make advances. Through a lack of funds, useful enterprises languish,
die out or are not undertaken. Consequently, the production, supply, and sale of indispensable
articles slacken, become interrupted and cease altogether. There is less soap and sugar and
fewer candles at the grocery, less wood and coal in the wood-yard, fewer oxen and sheep in
the markets, less meat at the butcher's, less grain and flour at the corn-exchange, and less
bread at the bakeries. As articles of prime necessity are scarce they become dear; as people
contend for them their dearness increases; the rich man ruins himself in the struggle to get
hold of them, while the poor man never gets any, and the bare necessities become unattainable.

II. Conditions in 1793. A Lesson in Market Economics.

     Economical effect of the Jacobin policy from 1789 to 1793.
     --Attacks on property.--Direct attacks.--Jacqueries, effective
     confiscations and proclamation of the socialist creed.
     --Indirect attacks.--Bad administration of the public funds.
     --Transformation of taxation and insignificance of the
     returns.--Increased expenditures.--The War-budget and
     subsistence after 1793.--Paper money.--Enormous issues of
     it.--Credit of the Assignats run down.--Ruin of Public
     creditors and of all private credit.--Rate of interest
     during the Revolution.--Stoppage of trade and industry.--Bad
     management of new land-owners.--Decrease of productive
     labor.--Only the small rural land-owner works
     advantageously.--Why he refuses Assignats.--He is no longer
     obliged to sell his produce at once.--High cost of food.--It
     reaches a market with difficulty and in small quantities.
     --The towns buy at a high price and sell at a low one.--Food
     becomes dearer and famine begins.--Prices during the first
     six months of 1793.

Such is the hardship in France at the moment when the Jacobin conquest has been completed,
a misery of which the Jacobins are the cause due to the systematic war they have waged against
property during the preceding four years.

From below, they have provoked, excused, amnestied, or tolerated and authorized all the popular
attacks on property,[4203] countless insurrections, seven successive jacqueries, some of them
so extensive as to cover eight or ten departments at the same time. The last one let loose
on all France a universal and lasting brigandage, the arbitrary rule of paupers, vagabonds
and ruffians; every species of robbery, from a refusal to pay rents and leases to the sacking
of chateaux and ordinary domiciles, even to the pillage of markets and granaries. Free scope
was given to mobs which, under a political pretext, tax and ransom the "suspects" of all classes
at pleasure, not alone the noble and the rich but the peaceable farmer and well-to-do artisan.
In short, the country reverted back to a natural state, the sovereignty of appetites, greed
and lust, to mankind's return to a savage, primitive life in the forests. Only a short time
before, in the month of February, 1793, through Marat's recommendation, and with the connivance
of the Jacobin municipality, the Paris riff-raff had broken into twelve hundred groceries and
divided on the spot, either gratis or at the price it fixed, sugar, soap, brandy and coffee.

From above, they had undertaken, carried out and multiplied the worst assaults on property,
vast spoliations of every sort; the suppression of hundreds of millions of incomes and the
confiscation of billions of capital; the abolition without indemnity of tithes and quitrents;
the expropriation of the property of the clergy, of emigrés, that of the order of Malta, that
of the pious, charitable and educational associations and endowments, even laic; seizures of
plate, of the sacred vessels and precious ornaments of the churches. And, because they have
the power, others still more vast. After August 10, their newspapers in Paris and their commissioners
in the departments,[4204] have preached

"the agrarian law, the holding of all property in common, the leveling of fortunes, the right
of each fraction of the sovereign people" to help itself by force to all food and stores at
the expense of the owner, to hunt down the rich, proscribe "land-owners, leading merchants,
financiers and all men in possession of whatever is superfluous."

Rousseau's dogma that "the fruit belongs to everybody and the soil to no one" is established
at an early date as a maxim of State in the Convention, while in the deliberations of the sovereign
assembly socialism, openly avowed, becomes ascendant, and, afterwards, supreme. According to
Robespierre,[4205]

"whatever is essential to preserve life is common property to society at large. It is only
the excess which may be given up to individuals and surrendered to commercial enterprise."

With still greater solemnity, the pontiff of the sect, in the Declaration of Rights which,
unanimously adopted by the all-powerful Jacobin club, is to serve as the corner-stone of the
new institutions, pens the following formula heavy with their consequences:[4206]

"Society must provide for the support of all its members. The aid required by indigence is
a debt of the rich to the poor. The right of property is limited, and applies only to that
portion which the law guarantees. Every ownership, any trade, which bears prejudicially on
the existence of our fellow-creatures is necessarily illicit and immoral."

The meaning of this is more than clear: the Jacobin populace, having decided that the possession
of, and trade in, groceries was prejudicial to its existence, the grocers' monopoly is, therefore,
immoral and illicit, and consequently, it pillages their shops. Under the rule of the populace
and of the "Mountain," the Convention applies the theory, seizes capital wherever it can be
found, and notifies the poor, in its name,

"that they will find in the pocket-books of the rich whatever they need to supply their wants."[4207]

Over and above these striking and direct attacks, an indirect and hidden attack, even more
significant, which slowly undermines the basis of all present and future property. State affairs
are everybody's affairs, and, when the State ruins itself, everybody is ruined along with it.
For, it is the country's greatest debtor and its greatest creditor, while there is no debtor
so free of seizure and no creditor so absorbing, since, making the laws and possessing the
force, it can, firstly, repudiate indebtedness and send away the fund-holder with empty hands,
and next, increase taxation and empty the taxpayer's pocket of his last penny. There is no
greater menace to private fortunes than the bad administration of the public fortune. Now,
under the pressure of Jacobin principles and of the Jacobin faction, the trustees of France
have administered the country as if they purposely meant to ruin their ward; every known means
for wasting a fortune have been brought into play by them.--In the first place, they have deprived
him of three-fourths of his income. To please the people and enforce the theory, the taxes
on articles consumed, on salt, with the excise subsidies and the octroi duties on liquors,
meat, tobacco, leather and gunpowder, have been abolished, while the new imposts substituted
for the old ones, slowly fixed, badly apportioned and raised with difficulty have brought in
no returns. On the 1st of February, 1793,[4208] the Treasury had received on the real and personal
taxation of 1791, but one hundred and fifty millions instead of three hundred millions. On
the same taxes for 1792, instead of three hundred millions it had obtained nothing at all.
At this date, and during the four years of the Revolution, the total arrears of taxation amounted
to six hundred and thirty-two millions--a bad debt that can hardly be recovered, and, in fact,
it is already reduced one-half, since, even if the debtor could and was disposed to pay, he
would pay in assignats, which, at this time, were at a discount of fifty per cent.--In the
second place, the new managers had quadrupled the public expenditure.[4209] What with the equipment
and excursions of the National Guards federations, patriotic festivals and parades, the writing,
printing and publication of innumerable documents, reimbursements for suppressed offices, the
installation of new administrations, aid to the indigent and to its charity workshops, purchases
of grain, indemnities to millers and bakers, it was under the necessity of providing for the
cost of the universal demolition and reconstruction. Now, the State had, for the most part,
defrayed all these expenses. At the end of April, 1793, it had already advanced to the city
of Paris alone, one hundred and ten million francs, while the Commune, insolvent, kept constantly
extorting fresh millions.[4210] By the side of this gulf, the Jacobins had dug another, larger
still, that of the war. For the first half of the year 1793 they threw into this pit first,
one hundred and forty millions, then one hundred and sixty millions, and then one hundred and
ninety million francs; in the second six months of 1793 the war and provisions swallowed up
three hundred million francs per month, and the more they threw into the two gulfs the deeper
they became.[4211]

Naturally, when there is no collecting a revenue and expenses go on increasing, one is obliged
to borrow on one's resources, and piecemeal, as long as these last. Naturally, when ready money
is not to be had on the market, one draws notes and tries to put them in circulation; one pays
tradesmen with written promises in the future, and thus exhausts one's credit. Such is paper
money and the assignats, the third and most efficient way for wasting a fortune and which the
Jacobins did not fail to make the most of.--Under the Constituent Assembly, through a remnant
of good sense and good faith, efforts were at first made to guarantee the fulfillment of written
promises the holders of assignats were almost secured by a first mortgage on the national possessions,
which had been given to them coupled with an engagement not to raise more money on this guarantee,
as well as not to issue any more assignats.[4212] But they did not keep faith. They rendered
the security afforded by this mortgage inoperative and, as all chances of re-payment disappeared,
its value declined. Then, on the 27th of April, 1792, according to the report of Cambon, there
begins an unlimited issue; according to the Jacobin financiers, nothing more is necessary to
provide for the war than to turn the wheel and grind out promises to pay: in June, 1793, assignats
to the amount of four billion three hundred and twenty millions have already been manufactured,
and everybody sees that the mill must grind faster. This is why the guarantee, vainly increased,
no longer suffices for the monstrous, disproportionate mortgage; it exceeds all limits, covers
nothing, and sinks through its own weight. At Paris, the assignat of one hundred francs is
worth in specie, in the month of June, 1791, eighty-five francs, in January, 1792, only sixty-six
francs, in March, 1792, only fifty. three francs; rising in value at the end of the Legislative
Assembly, owing to fresh confiscations, it falls back to fifty-five francs in January, 1793,
to forty-seven francs in April, to forty francs in June, to thirty-three francs in July.[4213]--Thus
are the creditors of the State defrauded of a third, one-half, and two-thirds of their investment,
and not alone the creditors of the State but every other creditor, since every debtor has the
right to discharge his obligations by paying his debts in assignats. Enumerate, if possible,
all who are defrauded of private claims, all money-lenders and stockholders who have invested
in any private enterprise, either manufacturing or mercantile, those who have loaned money
on Contracts of longer or shorter date, all sellers of real estate, with stipulations in their
deeds for more or less remote payment, all landowners who have leased their grounds or buildings
for a term of years, all holders of annuities on private bond or on an estate, all manufacturers,
merchants and farmers who have sold their wares, goods and produce on time, all clerks on yearly
salaries and even all other employees, underlings, servants and workmen receiving fixed salaries
for a specified term. There is not one of these persons whose capital, or income payable in
assignats, is not at once crippled in proportion to the decline in value of assignats, so that
not only the State falls into bankruptcy but likewise every creditor in France, legally bankrupt
along with it through its fault.

In such a situation how can any enterprise be commenced or maintained? Who dares take a risk,
especially when disbursements are large and returns remote? Who dares lend on long credits--?
If loans are still made they are not for a year but for a month, while the interest which,
before the Revolution was six, five or even four per cent. per annum, is now two per cent.
a month on securities." It soon runs up higher and, at Paris and Strasbourg we see it rising,
as in India and the Barbary States, to four, five, six and even seven per cent. a month.[4214]

What holder of raw material, or of manufactured goods, would dare make entries on his books
as usual and allow his customer the indispensable credit of three months? What large manufacturer
would presume to make goods up, what wholesale merchant would care to make shipments, what
man of wealth or with a competence would build, drain and construct dams and dykes, repair,
or even maintain them with the positive certainty of delays in getting back only one-half his
outlays and with the increasing certainty of getting nothing?

During a few years the large establishments collapsed in droves:

* After the ruin of the nobles and the departure of wealthy foreigners, every craft dependent
on luxurious tastes, those of Paris and Lyons, which were the standard for Europe, all the
manufactories of rich fabrics and furniture, and other artistic, elegant and fashionable articles.

* After the insurrection of the blacks in St. Domingo, and other troubles in the West Indies,
the great colonial trade and remarkable prosperity of Nantes and Bordeaux, including all the
industrial enterprises by which the production, transportation and circulation of cotton, sugar
and coffee were affected;[4215]

* After the declaration of war with England, the shipping interest;

* After the declaration of war with all Europe, the commerce of the continent.[4216]

Failure after failure, an universal crash, utter cessation of extensively organized and productive
labor: instead of productive industries, I see none now but destructive industries, those of
the agricultural and commercial vermin, those of dealers in junk and speculators who dismantle
mansions and abbeys, and who demolish chateaux and churches so as to sell the materials as
cheap as dirt, who bargain away national possessions, so as to make a profit on the transaction.
Imagine the mischief a temporary owner, steeped in debt, needy and urged on by the maturity
of his engagements, can and must do to an estate held under a precarious title and of suspicious
acquirement, which he has no idea of keeping, and from which, meanwhile, he derives every possible
benefit:[4217] not only does he put no spokes in the mill-wheel, no stones in the dyke, no
tiles on the roof, but he buys no manure, exhausts the soil, devastates the forest, alienates
the fields, and dismembers the entire farm, damaging the ground and the stock of tools and
injuring the dwelling by selling its mirrors, lead and iron, and oftentimes the window-shutters
and doors. He turns all into cash, no matter how, at the expense of the domain, which he leaves
in a run-down condition, unfurnished and for a long time unproductive. In like manner, the
communal possessions, ravaged, pillaged and then pieced out and divided off, are so many organisms
which are sacrificed for the immediate relief of the village poor, but of course to the detriment
of their future productiveness and an abundant yield.[4218]

Alone, amongst these millions of men who have stopped working, or work the wrong way, the petty
cultivator labors to advantage; free of taxes, of tithes and of feudal imposts, possessing
a scrap of ground which he has obtained for almost nothing or without stretching his purse
strings, he works in good spirits.[4219] He is sure that henceforth his crop will no longer
be eaten up by the levies of the seignior, of the décimateur and of the King, that it will
belong to him, that it will be wholly his, and that the worse the famine in the towns, the
dearer he will sell his produce. Hence, he has ploughed more vigorously than ever; he has even
cleared waste ground; getting the soil gratis, or nearly so, and having to make but few advances,
having no other use for his advances, consisting of seed, manure, the work of his cattle and
of his own hands, he has planted, reaped and raised grain with the greatest energy. Perhaps
other articles of consumption will be scarce; it may be that, owing to the ruin of other branches
of industry, it will be hard to get dry-goods, shoes, sugar, soap, oil, candles, wine and brandy;
it may happen that, owing to the bungling way in which agricultural transformations have been
effected, all produce of the secondary order, meat, vegetables, butter and eggs, may become
scarce. In any event, French foodstuffs par excellence is on hand, standing in the field or
stored in sheaves in the barns; in 1792 and 1793, and even in 1794, there is enough grain in
France to provide every French inhabitant with his daily bread.[4220]

But that is not enough. In order that each Frenchman may obtain his bit of bread every day,
it is still essential that grain should reach the markets in sufficient quantities, and that
the bakers should every day have enough flour to make all the bread that is required; moreover,
the bread offered for sale in the bakeries should not exceed the price which the majority of
consumers can afford to pay. Now, in fact, through a forced result of the new system, neither
of these conditions is fulfilled.--In the first place, wheat, and hence bread, is too dear.
Even at the old rate, these would still be too dear for the innumerable empty or half-empty
purses, after so many attacks on property, industry and trade, now that so many hundreds of
workmen and employees are out of work, now that so many land-owners and bourgeois receive no
rents, now that incomes, profits, wages and salaries have diminished by hundreds of thousands.
But wheat, and, consequently, bread, has not remained at old rates. Formerly a sack of wheat
in Paris was worth 50 francs. In February, 1793, it is worth sixty-five francs; in May, 1793,
one hundred francs and then one hundred and fifty; and hence bread, in Paris, early in 1793,
instead of being three sous the pound, costs six sous, in many of the southern departments
seven and eight sous, and in other places ten and twelve sous.[4221] The reason is, that, since
August 10, 1792, after the King's fall and the wrenching away of the ancient keystone of the
arch which still kept the loosened stones of the social edifice in place, the frightened peasant
would no longer part with his produce; he determined not to take assignats, not to let his
grain go for anything but ringing coin. To exchange good wheat for bad, dirty paper rags seemed
to him a trick, and justly so, for, on going to town every month he found that the dealers
gave him less merchandise for these rags. Being distrustful and a hoarder, he must have good,
old fashioned crowns, with the ancient effigy, so as to lay them away in a jar or old woollen
stocking; give him specie or he will keep his grain. For he is not, as formerly, obliged to
part with it as soon as it is cut, to pay taxes and rent; the bailiff and sheriff are no longer
there to constrain him; in these times of disorder and demagoguism, under impotent or partial
authorities, neither the public nor the private creditor has the power to compel payment, while
the spurs which formerly impelled the farmer to seek the nearest market are blunted or broken.
He therefore stays away, and he has excellent reasons for so doing. Vagabonds and the needy
stand by the roadside and at the entrances of the towns to stop and pillage the loaded carts;
in the markets and on the open square, women cut open bags of grain with their scissors and
empty them, or the municipality, forced to do it by the crowd, fixes the price at a reduced
rate.[4222]--The larger a town, the greater the difficulty in supplying its market; for its
provisions are drawn from a distance; each department, each canton, each village keeps its
own grain for itself by means of legal requisitions or by brutal force; it is impossible for
wholesale dealers in grain to make bargains; they are styled monopolists, and the mob, breaking
into their storehouses, hangs them out of preference.[4223] As the government, accordingly,
has proclaimed their speculations "crimes," it is going to interdict their trade and substitute
itself for them.[4224]--But this substitution only increases the penury still more; in vain
do the towns force collections, tax their rich men, raise money on loan, and burden themselves
beyond their resources;[4225] they only make the matter worse. When the municipality of Paris
expends twelve thousand francs a day for the sale of flour at a low price in the markets, it
keeps away the flour-dealers, who cannot deliver flour at such low figures; the result is that
there is not flour enough in the market for the six hundred thousand mouths in Paris; when
it expends seventy-five thousand francs daily to indemnify the bakers, it attracts the outside
population, which rushes into Paris to get bread cheap, and for the seven hundred thousand
mouths of Paris and the suburbs combined, the bakers have not an adequate supply. Whoever comes
late finds the shop empty; consequently, everybody tries to get there earlier and earlier,
at dawn, before daybreak, and then five or six hours before daybreak in February, 1793, long
lines of people are already waiting at the bakers' door, these lines growing longer and longer
in April, while in June they are enormously long.[4226] Naturally, for lack of bread, people
fall back on other aliments, which also grow dearer; add to this the various contrivances and
effects of Jacobin politics which still further increase the dearness of food of all sorts,
and also of every other necessary article: for instance, the extremely bad condition of the
roads, which renders transportation slower and more costly; the prohibition of the export of
coin and hence the obtaining of food from abroad; the decree which obliges each industrial
or commercial association, at present or to come, to "pay annually into the national treasury
one-quarter of the amount of its dividends;" the revolt in Vendée, which deprives Paris of
six hundred oxen a week; the feeding of the armies, which takes one-half of the cattle brought
to the Poissy market; shutting off the sea and the continent, which ruins manufacturers and
extensive commercial operations; the insurrections in Bordeaux, Marseilles and the South, which
still further raise the price of groceries, sugar, soap, oil, candles, wine and brandy.[4227]--Early
in 1793, a pound of beef in France is worth on the average, instead of six sous twenty sous;
in May, at Paris, brandy which, six months before, cost thirty-five sous, costs ninety-four
sous; in July, a pound of veal, instead of five sous, costs twenty-two sous. Sugar, from twenty
sous, advances to four francs ten sous; a candle costs seven sous. France, pushed on by the
Jacobins, approaches the depths of misery, entering the first circle of its Inferno; other
circles follow down deeper and deeper, narrower still and yet more somber; under Jacobin impulsion
is she to descend to the lowest?

III. Privation.

     First and general cause of privations.--The socialist
     principle of the Revolutionary government.--Measures against
     large as well as small properties.--Expropriation of all
     remaining corporations, enormous issues of paper-money.
     forced rates of its circulation, forced loans, requisitions
     of coin and plate, revolutionary taxes, suppression of
     special organs of labor on a large scale.--New measures
     against small proprietorship.--The Maximum, requisitions for
     food and labor.--Situation of the shop-keeper, cultivator
     and laborer.--Effect of the measures on labor on a small
     scale. Stoppage of sales.

Obviously, if the people is not being fed properly and in places not at all, it is because
one of the central and most important fibers of the economical machine has been incapacitated.
It is evident that this fiber controls the sentiment by which man holds on to his property,
fears to risk it, refuses to depreciate it, and tries to increase it.[4228] Obviously in the
real human being, such as he actually is made up, this intense sentiment, tenacious, always
stirring and active, is the magazine of inward energy which provides for three-fourths, almost
the whole, of that unremitting effort, that calculating attention, that determined perseverance
which leads the individual to undergo privation, to contrive and to exert himself, to turn
to profitable account the labor of his hands, brain and capital, and to produce, save and create
for himself and for others various resources and comforts.

(It is probable that disinterested motives, pure love for one's neighbor, for humanity, for
country, do not form a hundredth part of the total energy that produces human activity. It
must not be forgotten that the actions of men are alloyed with motives of a lower order, such
as love of fame, the desire of self-admiration and of self-approval, fear of punishment and
hope of reward beyond the grave, all of these being interested motives, and without which disinterested
motives would be inoperative excepting in two or three souls among ten thousand.[4229])

Thus far, in society as a whole, this sentiment has been only partially touched, and the injury
has mainly been to the well-to-do or rich classes. At first only one-half of its useful energy
has been destroyed since only those services rendered by the rich and wealthy classes have
been dispensed with. Little else than the labor of the capitalist, proprietor or contractor
has been suppressed, whose far-reaching, combined, comprehensive labor, the rewards of which
consist of objects of luxury and convenience, ensure for society that abundant supplies are
always on hand, through ready and spontaneous distribution of indispensable commodities. There
remains (for the Jacobins) to crush out what is left of this laborious and nutritive fiber;
the remnant of useful energy has to be destroyed down to its extirpation among the people.
Here there must be a suppression, as far as possible, of all manual, rude labor even on a small
scale, and of its rudimentary fruits; the discouragement of the insignificant shopkeeper, mechanic
and ploughman must be effected; the corner-grocer must be prevented from selling his sugar
and candles, and the cobbler from mending shoes: the miller must think of giving up his mill
and the wagoner of abandoning his cart; the farmer must be convinced that the best thing he
can do is to get rid of his horses, eat his pork himself,[4230] let his oxen famish and leave
his crops to rot on the ground.--The Jacobins are to do all this, for it is the inevitable
result of the theory that they have proclaimed and which they apply. According to this theory
the stern, strong, deep-seated instinct through which the individual stubbornly holds on to
what he has, to what he makes for himself and for those that belong to him, is just the unwholesome
fiber that must be rooted out or paralyzed at any cost; its true name is "egoism, incivism,"
and its operations consist of outrages on the community, which is the sole legitimate proprietor
of property and products, and, yet more, of all persons and services. Body and soul, all belongs
to the State, nothing to individuals, and, if need be, the State has the right to take not
only lands and capital, but, again, to claim and tax at whatever rate it pleases all corn and
cattle, all vehicles and the animals that draw them, all candles and sugar; it has the right
to appropriate to itself and tax at whatever rate it pleases, the labor of shoemaker, tailor,
miller, wagoner, ploughman, reaper and thrasher. The seizure of men and things is universal,
and the new sovereigns do their best at it; for, in practice, necessity urges them on; insurrection
thunders at their door; their supporters, all crackbrains with empty stomachs, the poor and
the idle, and the Parisian populace, listen to no reason and blindly insist on things haphazard;
they are bound to satisfy their patrons at once, to issue one on top of the other all the decrees
they call for, even when impracticable and mischievous to starve the provinces so as to feed
the city, to starve the former to-morrow so as to feed the latter to-day.--Subject to the clamors
and menaces of the street they dispatch things rapidly; they cease to care for the future,
the present being all that concerns them; they take and take forcibly; they uphold violence
by brutality, they support robbery with murder; they expropriate persons by categories and
appropriate objects by categories, and after the rich they despoil the poor.--During fourteen
months the revolutionary government thus keeps both hands at work, one hand completing the
confiscation of property, large and medium, and the other proceeding to the entire abolition
of property even on a small scale.

Against large or medium properties it suffices to extend and aggravate the decrees already
passed.--The spoliation of the last of existing corporations must be effected: the government,
confiscates the property of hospitals, communes, and all scientific or literary associations.[4231]

To this we must add the spoliation of State credits and all other credits: it issues in fourteen
months 5 100 millions of assignats, at one time and with one decree 1,400 million and another
time 2,000 millions. It thus condemns itself to complete future bankruptcy. It also calls in
the 1,500 million of assignats bearing the royal stamp (à face royale) and thus arbitrarily
converts and reduces the public debt on the Grand Ledger, which is already, in fact, a partial
and declared bankruptcy. Six months imprisonment for whoever refuses to accept assignats at
par, twenty years in irons if the offence is repeated and the guillotine if there is an incivique
intention or act, which suffices for all other creditors.[4232]

The spoliation of individuals, a forced loan of a billion on the rich, requisitions for coin
against assignats at par, seizures of plate and jewels in private houses, revolutionary taxes
so numerous as not only to exhaust the capital, but likewise the credit, of the person taxed,[4233]
and the resumption by the State of the public domain pledged to private individuals for the
past three centuries. How many years of labor are requisite to bring together again so much
available capital, to reconstruct in France and to refill once again those private reservoirs
which are to contain the accumulated savings essential for the out-flow required to drive the
great wheel of each general enterprise? Take into account, moreover, the enterprises which
are directly destroyed, root and branch, by revolutionary executions, enforced against the
manufacturers and traders of Lyons, Marseilles and Bordeaux, proscribed in a mass,[4234] guillotined,
imprisoned, or put to flight, their factories stopped, their storehouses put under sequestration,
with their stocks of brandy, soap, silk, muslins, leather, paper, serges, cloth, canvas, cordage
and the rest; the same at Nantes under Carrier, at Strasbourg under Saint-Just, and everywhere
else.[4235]--"Commerce is annihilated," writes a Swiss merchant,[4236] from Paris, and the
government, one would say, tries systematically to render it impossible. On the 27th of June,
1793, the Convention closes the Bourse; on the 15th of April, 1794, it suppresses "financial
associations" and "prohibits all bankers, merchants and other persons from organizing any establishment
of the said character under any pretext or title whatsoever." On the 8th of September, 1793,
the Commune places seals "in all the counting-houses of bankers, stockbrokers, agents and silver-dealers,"[4237]
and locks up their owners; as a favor, considering that they are obliged to pay the drafts
drawn on them, they are let out, but provisionally, and on condition that they remain under
arrest at home, "under the guard of two good citizens," at their own expense. Such is the case
in Paris and in other cities, not alone with prominent merchants, but likewise with notaries
and lawyers, with whom funds are on deposit and who manage estates; a sans-culotte with his
pike stands in their cabinet whilst they write, and he accompanies them in the street when
they call on their clients. Imagine the state of a notary's office or a counting-room under
a system of this sort! The master of it winds up his business as soon as he can, no matter
how, makes no new engagements and does as little as possible. Still more inactive than he,
his colleagues, condemned to an indefinite listlessness, under lock and key in the common prison,
no longer attend to their business.--There is a general, total paralysis of those natural organs
which, in economic life, produce, elaborate, receive, store, preserve, exchange and transmit
in large quantities; and as an after effect, embarrass, saturate, or weaken all the lesser
subordinate organs to which the superior ones no longer provide outlets, intermediary agencies
or aliment.

It is now the turn of the small enterprises. Whatever their sufferings may be they are ordered
to carry their work out as in normal times, and they will be forced to do this. The Convention,
pursuing its accustomed rigid logical course with its usual shortsightedness, lays on them
its violent and inept hands; they are trodden down, trampled upon and mauled for the purpose
of curing them. Farmers are forbidden to sell their produce except in the markets, and obliged
to bring to these a quota of so many sacks per week, military raids compelling them to furnish
their quotas.[4238] Shopkeepers are ordered "to expose for sale, daily and publicly, all goods
and provisions of prime necessity" that they have on hand, while a maximum price is established,
above which no one shall sell "bread, flour and grain, vegetables and fruits, wine, vinegar,
cider, beer and brandy, fresh meat, salt meat, pork, cattle, dried, salted, smoked or pickled
fish, butter, honey, sugar, sweet-oil, lamp-oil, candles, firewood, charcoal and other coal,
salt, soap, soda, potash, leather, iron, steel, castings, lead, brass, hemp, linen, woolens,
canvas and woven stuffs, sabots, shoes and tobacco." Whoever keeps on hand more than he consumes
is a monopolist and commits a capital crime; the penalty, very severe, is imprisonment or the
pillory, for whoever sells above the established price:[4239] such are the simple and direct
expedients of the revolutionary government, and such is the character of its inventive faculty,
like that of the savage who hews down a tree to get at its fruit.--Consequently, after the
first application of the "maximum" the shopkeeper is no longer able to carry on business; his
customers, attracted by the sudden depreciation in price of his wares, flock to his shop and
empty it in a few days;[4240] having sold his goods for half what they cost him,[4241] he has
got back only one-half of his advances; therefore, he can only one-half renew his assortment,
less than a half, since he has not paid his bills, and his credit is declining, the (Jacobin)
representatives on mission having taken all his coin, plate and assignats. Hence, during the
following month, buyers find on his unfurnished counters nothing but rubbish and refuse.

In like manner, after the proclamation of the maximum,[4242] the peasant refuses to bring his
produce to market, while the revolutionary army is not everywhere on hand to take it from him
by force: he leaves his crop unthrashed as long as he can, and complains of not finding the
men to thrash it. If necessary, he hides it or feeds it out to his animals. He often barters
it away for wood, for a side of bacon or in payment for a day's work. At night, he carts it
off six leagues to a neighboring district, where the local maximum is fixed at a higher rate.
He knows who, in his own vicinity, still has specie in his pocket and he underhandedly supplies
him with his stores. He especially conceals his superabundance and, as formerly, pretends to
be poor and suffering. He is on good terms with the village authorities, with the mayor and
national agent who are as interested as he is in evading the law, and, on a bribe being necessary,
he gives it. At last, he allows himself to be sued, and his property attached; he goes to prison
and tires the authorities out with his obstinacy. Hence, from week to week, less flour and
grain and fewer cattle come to market, while meat becomes scarcer at the butcher's, and bread
at the baker's.--Having thus paralyzed the lesser organs of supply and demand the Jacobins
now have only to paralyze labor itself, the skilled hands, the active and vigorous arms. This
is simply done by replacing the independent private workshop by the compulsory national workshop
in this way replacing piece-work by work by the day, and the attentive, energetic workman who
minds his business and expects to earn money in return by inattentive apathic workmen pressed
into a poorly paid service but paid even when they botch the job or laze about.--This is what
the Jacobins do by forcibly commanding the services of all sorts of laborers,[4243] "all who
help handle, transport and retail produce and articles of prime necessity," "country people
who usually get in the crops," and, more particularly, thrashers, reapers, carters, rafts men,
and also shoemakers, tailors, blacksmiths and the rest.--At every point of the social organism,
the same principle is applied with the same result. Substitute everywhere an external, artificial
and mechanical constraint for the inward, natural and animating stimulant, and you get nothing
but an universal atrophy. Deprive people of the fruits of their labor, and yet more, force
them to produce by fear, confiscate their time, their painstaking efforts and their persons,
reduce them to the condition of fellahs, create in them the sentiments of fellahs, and you
will have nothing but the labor and productions of fellahs, that is to say, a minimum of labor
and production, and hence, insufficient supplies for sustaining a very dense population, which,
multiplied through a superior and more productive civilization, will not long subsist under
a barbarous, inferior and unproductive régime. When this systematic and complete expropriation
terminates we see the final result of the system, no longer a dearth, but famine, famine on
a large scale, and the destruction of lives by millions.--Among the Jacobins,[4244] some of
the maddest who are clear-sighted, on account of their fury, Guffroy, Antonelle, Jean Bon Saint-André,
Collot d'Herbois, foresee the consequences and accept them along with the principle. Others,
who avoid seeing it, are only the more determined in the application of it. However, they all
work together with all their might to aggravate the misery of which the lamentable spectacle
is so vainly exposed under their eyes.

IV. Hunger.

     Famine.--In the provinces.--At Paris.--People standing in
     lines under the Revolutionary government to obtain food.
     --Its quality.--Distress and chagrin.

Collot d'Herbois wrote from Lyons on November 6, 1793: "There is not two days' supply of provisions
here." On the following day: "The present population of Lyons is one hundred and thirty thousand
souls at least, and there is not sufficient subsistence for three days." Again the day after:
"Our situation in relation to food is deplorable." Then, the next day: "Famine is beginning."[4245]--Near
by, in the Montbrison district, in February, 1794, "there is no food or provisions left for
the people;" all has been taken by requisition and carried off, even seed for planting, so
that the fields lie fallow.[4246]--At Marseilles, "since the maximum, everything is lacking;
even the fishermen no longer go out (on the sea) so that there is no supply of fish to live
on."[4247]--At Cahors, in spite of multiplied requisitions, the Directory of Lot and Representative
Taillefer[4248] state that "the inhabitants, for more than eight days, are reduced wholly to
maslin bread composed of one-fifth of wheat and the rest of barley, barley-malt and millet."--At
Nîmes,[4249] to make the grain supply last, which is giving out, the bakers and all private
persons are ordered not to sift the meal, but to leave the bran in it and knead and bake the
"dough such as it is."--At Grenoble,[4250] "the bakers have stopped baking; the country people
no longer bring wheat in; the dealers hide away their goods, or put them in the hands of neighborly
officials, or send them off."--"It goes from bad to worse," write the agents of Huningue;[4251]
one might say even, that they would give this or that article to their cattle rather than sell
it in conformity with the tax."--The inhabitants of towns are everywhere put on rations, and
so small a ration as to scarcely keep them from dying with hunger. "Since my arrival in Tarbes,"
writes another agent,[4252] "every person is limited to half a pound of bread a day, composed
one-third of wheat and two-thirds of corn meal." The next day after the fête in honor of the
tyrant's death there was absolutely none at all. "A half-pound of bread is also allowed at
Evreux,[4253] "and even this is obtained with a good deal of trouble, many being obliged to
go into the country and get it from the farmers with coin." And even "they have got very little
bread, flour or wheat, for they have been obliged to bring what they had to Evreux for the
armies and for Paris."

It is worse at Rouen and at Bordeaux: at Rouen, in Brumaire, the inhabitants have only one
quarter of a pound per head per diem of bread; at Bordeaux, "for the past three months," says
the agent,[4254] "the people sleep at the doors of the bakeries, to pay high for bread which
they often do not get... There has been no baking done to-day, and to-morrow only half a loaf
will be given to each person. This bread is made of oats and beans... On days that there is
none, beans, chestnuts and rice are distributed in very small quantities," four ounces of bread,
five of rice or chestnuts. "I, who tell you this, have already eaten eight or ten meals without
bread; I would gladly do without it if I could get potatoes in place of it, but these, too,
cannot be had." Five months later, fasting still continues, and it lasts until after the reign
of Terror, not alone in the town, but throughout the department. "In the district of Cadillac,
says Tallien,[4255] "absolute dearth prevails; the citizens of the rural districts contend
with each other for the grass in the fields; I have eaten bread made of dog-grass." Haggard
and worn out, the peasant, with his pallid wife and children, resorts to the marsh to dig roots,
while there is scarcely enough strength in his arms to hold the plough.--The same spectacle
is visible in places which produce but little grain, or where the granaries have been emptied
by the revolutionary drafts. "In many of the Indre districts," writes the representative on
missions,[4256] "food is wanting absolutely. Even in some of the communes, many of the inhabitants
are reduced to a frightful state of want, feeding on acorns, bran and other unhealthy food....
The districts of Châtre and Argenton, especially, will be reduced to starvation unless they
are promptly relieved.... The cultivation of the ground is abandoned; most of the persons in
the jurisdiction wander about the neighboring departments in search of food."--And it is doubtful
whether they find it. In the department of Cher, "the butchers can no longer slaughter; the
dealers' stores are all empty." In Allier, "the slaughterhouses and markets are deserted, every
species of vegetable and aliment having disappeared; the inns are closed." In one of the Lozère
districts, composed of five cantons, of which one produces an extra quantity of rye, the people
live on requisitions imposed on Gard and the Upper Loire; the extortions of the representatives
in these two departments "were distributed among the municipalities, and by these to the most
indigent: many entire families, many of the poor and even of the rich, suffered for want of
bread during six or eight days, and this frequently."[4257] Nevertheless they do not riot;
they merely supplicate and stretch forth their hands "with tears in their eyes. "--Such is
the diet and submission of the stomach in the provinces. Paris is less patient. For this reason,
all the rest is sacrificed to it,[4258] not merely the public funds, the Treasury from which
it gets one or two millions per week,[4259] but whole districts are starved for its benefit,
six departments providing grain, twenty six departments providing pork,[4260] at the rate of
the maximum, through requisitions, through the prospect of imprisonment and of the scaffold
in case of refusal or concealment, under the predatory bayonets of the revolutionary army.
The capital, above all, has to be fed. Let us see, under this system of partiality, how people
live in Paris and what they feed on.

"Frightful crowds" at the doors of the bakeries, then at the doors of the butchers and grocers,
then at the markets for butter, eggs, fish and vegetables, and then on the quay for wine, firewood
and charcoal--such is the steady refrain of the police reports.[4261]--And this lasts uninterruptedly
during the fourteen months of revolutionary government: long lines of people waiting in turn
for bread, meat, oil, soap and candles, "queues for milk, for butter, for wood, for charcoal,
queues everywhere!"[4262] "There was one queue beginning at the door of a grocery in the Petit
Carreau stretching half way up the rue Montorgueil."[4263] These queues form at three o'clock
in the morning, one o'clock and at midnight, increasing from hour to hour. Picture to yourself,
reader, the file of wretched men and women sleeping on the pavement when the weather is fine[4264]
and when not fine, standing up on stiff tottering legs; above all in winter, "the rain pouring
on their backs," and their feet in the snow, for so many weary hours in dark, foul, dimly lighted
streets strewed with garbage; for, for want of oil, one half of the street lamps are extinguished,
and for lack of money, there is no repaving, no more sweeping, the offal being piled up against
the walls.[4265] The crowd draggles along through it, likewise, nasty, tattered and torn, people
with shoes full of holes, because the shoemakers do no more work for their customers, and in
dirty shirts, because no more soap can be had to wash with, while, morally as well as physically,
all these forlorn beings elbowing each other render themselves still fouler.--Promiscuousness,
contact, weariness, waiting and darkness afford free play to the grosser instincts; especially
in summer, natural bestiality and Parisian mischievousness have full play. "Lewd women"[4266]
pursue their calling standing in the row; it is an interlude for them; "their provoking expressions,
their immoderate laughter," is heard some distance off and they find it a convenient place:
two steps aside, on the flank of the row, are "half open doors and dark alleys" which invite
tête-à-tête; many of these women who have brought their mattresses "sleep there and commit
untold abominations." What an example for the wives and daughters of steady workmen, for honest
servants who hear and see! Men stop at each row and choose their dulcinea, while others, less
shameless, pounce on the women like bulls and kiss them one after the other." Are not these
the fraternal kisses of patriotic Jacobins? Do not Mayor Pache's wife and daughter go to the
clubs and kiss drunken sans-culottes? And what says the guard?--It has enough to do to restrain
another blind and deaf animal instinct, aroused as it is by suffering, anticipation and deception.

On approaching each butcher's stall before it opens "the porters, bending under the weight
of a side of beef, quicken their steps so as not to be assailed by the crowd which presses
against them, seeming to devour the raw meat with their eyes." They force a passage, enter
the shop in the rear, and it seems as if the time for distributing the meat had come; the gendarmes,
spurring their horses to a gallop, scatter the groups that are too dense; "rascals, in pay
of the Commune," range the women in files, two and two, "shivering" in the cold morning air
of December and January, awaiting their turn. Beforehand, however, the butcher, according to
law, sets aside the portion for the hospitals, for pregnant women and others who are confined,
for nurses, and besides, notwithstanding the law, he sets aside another portion for the revolutionary
committee of the section, for the assistant commissioner and superintendent, for the pashas
and semi pashas of the quarter, and finally for his rich customers who pay him extra.[4267]
To this end, "porters with broad shoulders form an impenetrable rampart in front of the shop
and carry away whole oxen;" after this is over, the women find the shop stripped, while many,
after wasting their time for four mortal hours," go away empty handed.--With this prospect
before them the daily assemblages get to be uneasy and the waves rise; nobody, except those
at the head of the row, is sure of his pittance those that are behind regard enviously and
with suppressed anger the person ahead of them. First come outcries, then jeering and then
scuffling; the women rival the men in struggling and in profanity,[4268] and they hustle each
other. The line suddenly breaks; each rushes to get ahead of the other; the foremost place
belongs to the most robust and the most brutal, and to secure it they have to trample down
their neighbors.

There are fisticuffs every day. When an assemblage remains quiet the spectators take notice
of it. In general "they fight,[4269] snatch bread out of each other's hands; those who cannot
get any forcing whoever gets a loaf weighing four pounds to share it in small pieces. The women
yell frightfully.... Children sent by their parents are beaten," while the weak are pitched
into the gutter. "In distributing the meanest portions of food[4270] it is force which decides,"
the strength of loins and arms; "a number of women this morning came near losing their lives
in trying to get four ounces of butter.--More sensitive and more violent than men, "they do
not, or will not, listen to reason,[4271] they pounce down like harpies" on the market wagons;
they thrash the drivers, strew the vegetables and butter on the ground, tumble over each other
and are suffocated through the impetuosity of the assault; some, "trampled upon, almost crushed,
are carried off half dead." Everybody for himself. Empty stomachs feel that, to get anything,
it is important to get ahead, not to await for the distribution, the unloading or even the
arrival of the supplies.--"A boat laden with wine having been signaled, the crowd rushed on
board to pillage it and the boat sunk," probably along with a good many of its invaders.[4272]
Other gatherings at the barriers stop the peasants' wagons and take their produce before they
reach the markets. Outside the barriers, children and women throw stones at the milkmen, forcing
them to get down from their carts and distribute milk on the spot. Still further out, one or
two leagues off on the highways, gangs from Paris go at night to intercept and seize the supplies
intended for Paris. "This morning," says a watchman, "all the Faubourg St. Antoine scattered
itself along the Vincennes road and pillaged whatever was on the way to the city; some paid,
while others carried off without paying.... The unfortunate peasants swore that they would
not fetch anything more," the dearth thus increasing through the efforts to escape it.

In vain the government makes its requisitions for Paris as if in a state of siege, and fixes
the quantity of grain on paper which each department, district, canton, and commune, must send
to the capital.--Naturally, each department, district, canton and commune strives to retain
its own supplies, for charity begins at home.[4273] Especially in a village, the mayor and
members of a municipality, themselves cultivators, are lukewarm when the commune is to be starved
for the benefit of the capital. They declare a less return of grain than there really is; they
allege reasons and pretexts. They mystify or suborn the commissioner on provisions, who is
a stranger, incompetent and needy; they make him drink and eat, and, now and then, fill his
pocket book. He slips over the accounts, he gives the village receipts on furnishing three-quarters
or a half of the demand, often in spoilt or mixed grain or poor flour, while those who have
no rusty wheat get it of their neighbors. Instead of parting with a hundred quintals they part
with fifty, while the quantity of grain in the Paris markets is not only insufficient, but
the grain blackens or sprouts and the flour grows musty. In vain the government makes clerks
and depositaries of butchers and grocers, allowing them five or ten per cent. profit on retail
sales of the food it supplies them with at wholesale, and thus creates in Paris, at the expense
of all France, an artificial drop in prices. Naturally, the bread[4274] which, thanks to the
State, costs three sous in Paris, is furtively carried out of Paris into the suburbs, where
six sous are obtained for it. There is the same furtive leakage for other food furnished by
the State on the same conditions to other dealers; the tax is a burden which forces them to
go outside their shops. Food finds its level like water, not alone outside of Paris, but in
Paris itself.

* Naturally, "the grocers peddle their goods" secretly, "sugar, candles, soap, butter, dried
vegetables, meat pies and the rest," amongst private houses, in which these articles are bought
at any price.

* Naturally, the butcher keeps his large pieces of beef and choice morsels for the large eating
houses, and for rich customers who pay him whatever profit he asks.

* Naturally, whoever is in authority, or has the power, uses it to supply himself first, largely,
and in preference; we have seen the levies of the revolutionary committees, superintendents
and agents; as soon as rations are allotted to all mouths, each potentate will have several
rations delivered for his mouth alone; in the meantime[4275] the patriots who guard the barriers
appropriate all provisions that arrive, and the next morning, should any scolding appear in
the orders of the day, it is but slight.

Such are the two results of the system: not only is the food which is supplied to Paris scant
and poor, but the regular consumers of it, those who take their turn to get it, obtain but
a small portion, and that the worst.[4276] A certain inspector, on going to the corn market
for a sample of flour, writes "that it cannot be called flour;[4277] it is ground bran," and
not a nutritive substance; the bakers are forced to take it, the markets containing for the
most part no other supply than this flour."--Again, three weeks later, "Food is still very
scarce and poor in quality. The bread is disagreeable to the taste and produces maladies with
which many citizens are suffering, like dysentery and other inflammatory ailments." The same
report, three months later during the month of Nivôse: "Complaints are constantly made of the
poor quality of flour, which, it is said, makes a good many people ill; it causes severe pain
in the intestines, accompanied with a slow fever.--During Ventôse, "the scarcity of every article
is extremely great,"[4278] especially of meat. Some women in the Place Maubert, pass six hours
in a line waiting for it, and do not get the quarter of a pound; in many stalls there is none
at all, not "an ounce" being obtainable to make broth for the sick. Workmen do not get it in
their shops and do without their soup; they live on "bread and salted herrings." A great many
people groan over "not having eaten bread for a fortnight;" women say that "they have not had
a dish of meat and vegetables (pot au feu) for a month." Meanwhile "vegetables are astonishingly
scarce and excessively dear.... two sous for a miserable carrot, and as much for two small
leeks." Out of two thousand women who wait at the central market for a distribution of beans,
only six hundred receive any. Potatoes increase in price in one week from two to three francs
a bushel, and oatmeal and ground peas triple in price. "The grocers have no more brown sugar,
even for the sick," and sell candles and soap only by the half pound.--A fortnight later candles
are wholly wanting in certain quarters, except in the section storehouse, which is almost empty,
each person being allowed only one. A good many households go to rest at sundown for lack of
lights and do not cook any dinner for lack of coal. Eggs, especially, are "honored as invisible
divinities," while the absent butter "is a god."[4279] "If this lasts," say the workmen, "we
shall have to cut each other's throats, since there is nothing left to live on."[4280] "Sick
women,[4281] children in their cradles, lie outstretched in the sun," in the very heart of
Paris, in rue Vivienne, on the Pont-Royal, and remain there "late in the night, demanding alms
of the passers-by." "One is constantly stopped by beggars of both sexes, most of them healthy
and strong," begging, they say, for lack of work. Without counting the feeble and the infirm
who are unable to stand in a line, whose sufferings are visible, who gradually waste away and
die without a murmur at home, "one encounters in the streets and markets" only famished and
eager visages, "an immense crowd of citizens running and dashing against each other," crying
out and weeping, "everywhere presenting an image of despair."[4282]

V. Revolutionary Remedies.

     Revolutionary remedies.--Rigor against the refractory.
     --Decrees and orders rendering the State the only depositary
     and distributor of food.--Efforts made to establish a
     conscription of labor.--Discouragement of the Peasant.--He
     refuses to cultivate.--Decrees and orders compelling him to
     harvest.--His stubbornness.--Cultivators imprisoned by
     thousands.--The Convention is obliged to set them at
     liberty.--Fortunate circumstances which save France from
     extreme famine.

This penury only exists, say the Jacobins, because the laws against monopoly, and sales above
the "maximum" prices are not being obeyed to the letter of the law. The egoism of the cultivator
and the cupidity of dealers are not restrained by fear and delinquents escape too frequently
from the legal penalty. Let us enforce this penalty rigorously; let us increase the punishment
against them and their instruments; let us screw up the machine and give them a new wrench.
A new estimate and verification of the food supply takes place, domiciliary searches, seizures
of special stores regarded as too ample,[4283] limited rations for each consumer, a common
and obligatory mess table for all prisoners, brown, égalité bread, mostly of bran, for every
mouth that can chew, prohibition of the making of any other kind, confiscation of boulters
and sieves,[4284] the "individual," personal responsibility of every administrator who allows
the people he directs to resist or escape providing the demanded supplies, the sequestration
of his property, imprisonment, fines, the pillory and the guillotine to hurry up requisitions,
or stop free trading,--every terrifying method is driven to the utmost against the farmers
and cultivators of the soil.

After April, 1794,[4285] crowds of this class are found filling the prisons to overflowing;
the Revolution has struck them also. They stroll about in the court yard, and wander through
the corridors with a sad, stupefied expression, no longer comprehending the way things are
going on in the world. In vain are efforts made to explain to them that "their crops are national
property and that they are simply its depositaries;"[4286] never had this new principle entered
into, nor will it enter, their rude brains; always, through habit and instinct, will they work
against it.--Let them be spared the temptation. Let us (the Jacobins) relieve them from, and,
in fact, take their crops; let the State in France become the sole depositary and distributor
of grain; let it solely buy and sell grain at a fixed rate. Consequently, at Paris,[4287] the
Committee of Public Safety first puts "in requisition all the oats that can be found in the
Republic; every holder of oats is required to deposit his stock on hand within eight days,
in the storehouse indicated by the district administration "at the maximum" price; otherwise
he is "a 'suspect' and must be punished as such." In the meantime, through still more comprehensive
orders issued in the provinces, Paganel in the department of Tarn, and Dartigoyte in those
of Gers and the Upper-Garonne,[4288] enjoin each commune to establish public granaries. "All
citizens are ordered to bring in whatever produce they possess in grain, flour, wheat, maslin,
rye, barley, oats, millet, buckwheat" at the "maximum" rate. Nobody shall keep on hand more
than one month's supply, fifty pounds of flour or wheat for each person; in this way, the State,
which holds in its hands the keys of the storehouses, may "carry out the salutary equalization
of provisions" between department and department, district and district, commune and commune,
individual and individual. A storekeeper will look after each of these well filled granaries;
the municipality will itself deliver rations and, moreover, "take suitable steps to see that
beans and vegetables, as they mature, be economically distributed under its supervision," at
so much per head, and always at the rate of the "maximum." Otherwise, dismissal, imprisonment
and prosecution "in the extraordinary criminal tribunal. "-This being accomplished, and the
fruits of labor duly allotted, there remains only the allotment of labor itself. To effect
this, Maignet,[4289] in Vaucluse, and in the Bouches du Rhône, prescribes for each municipality
the immediate formation of two lists, one of day laborers and the other of proprietors. "All
proprietors in need of a cultivator by the day," are to appear and ask for one at the municipality,
which will assign the applicant as many as he wants, "in order on the list," with a card for
himself and numbers for the designated parties. The laborer who does not enter his name on
the list, or who exacts more than the "maximum" wages, is to be sentenced to the pillory with
two years in irons. The same sentence with the addition of a fine of three hundred livres,
is for every proprietor who employs any laborer not on the list or who pays more than the "maximum
rate of wages.

After this, nothing more is necessary, in practice, than to

* draw up and keep in sight the new registries of names and figures made by the members of
thirty thousand municipal boards, who cannot keep accounts and who scarcely know how to read
and write;

* build a vast public granary, or put in requisition three or four barns in each commune, in
which half dried and mixed grain may rot;

* pay two hundred thousand incorruptible storekeepers and measurers who will not divert anything
from the depots for their friends or themselves;

* add to the thirty five thousand employees of the Committee on Provisions,[4290] five hundred
thousand municipal scribes disposed to quit their trades or ploughs for the purpose of making
daily distributions gratuitously; but more precisely, to maintain four or five millions of
perfect gendarmes, one in each family, living with it, to help along the purchases, sales and
transactions of each day and to verify at night the contents of the locker.

In short, to set one half of the French people as spies on the other half.--These are the conditions
which secure the production and distribution of food, and which suffice for the institution
throughout France of a conscription of labor and the captivity of grain.

Unfortunately, the peasant does not understand this theory, but he understands business; he
makes close calculations, and the positive, patent, vulgar facts on which he reasons lead to
other conclusions:[4291]

"In Messidor last they took all my last years' oats, at fourteen francs in assignats, and,
in Thermidor, they are going to take all this year's oats, at eleven francs in assignats. At
this rate I shall not sow at all. Besides, I do not need any for myself, as they have taken
my horses for the army wagons. To raise rye and wheat, as much of it as formerly, is also working
at a loss; I will raise no more than the little I want for myself, and again, I suppose that
this will be put in requisition, even my supplies for the year! I had rather let my fields
lie fallow. Just see now, they are taking all the live three months' pigs! Luckily, I killed
mine be forehand and it is now in the pork barrel. But they are going to claim all salt provisions
like the rest. The new grabbers are worse than the old ones. Six months more, and we shall
all die of hunger. It is better to cross one's arms at once and go to prison; there, at least,
we shall be fed and not have to work."

In effect, they allow themselves to be imprisoned, the best of the small cultivators and proprietors
by thousands, and Lindet,[4292] at the head of the Commission on Provisions, speaks with dismay
of the ground being no longer tilled, of cattle in France being no more abundant than the year
before, and of nothing to be had to cut this year.

For a strange thing has happened, unheard of in Europe, almost incredible to any one familiar
with the French peasant and his love of work. This field which he has ploughed, manured, harrowed
and reaped with his own hands, its precious crop, the crop that belongs to him and on which
he has feasted his eyes for seven months, now that it is ripe, he will not take the trouble
to gather it; it would be bothering himself for some one else. As the crop that he sees there
is for the government, let the government defray the final cost of getting it in; let it do
the harvesting, the reaping, the putting it in sheaves, the carting and the thrashing in the
barn.--Thereupon, the representatives on mission exclaim, each shouting in a louder or lower
key, according to his character.

"Many of the cultivators," writes Dartigoyte,[4293] "affect a supreme indifference for this
splendid crop. One must have seen it, as I have, to believe how great the neglect of the wheat
is in certain parts, how it is smothered by the grass.... Draft, if the case requires it, a
certain number of inhabitants in this or that commune to work in another one.... Every man
who refuses to work, except on the 'decade' day, must be punished as an ill-disposed citizen,
as a royalist."--

"Generous friends of nature," writes Ferry,[4294] introduce amongst you, perpetuate around
you, the habit of working in common and begin with the present crop. Do not spare either indolent
women or indolent men, those social parasites, many of whom you doubtless have in your midst.
What! allow lazy men and lazy women where we are! Where should we find a Republican police?...
Immediately on the reception of this present order the municipal officers of each commune will
convoke all citoyennes in the Temple of the Eternal and urge them, in the name of the law,
to devote themselves to the labors of harvesting. Those women who fail in this patriotic duty,
shall be excluded from the assemblies, from the national festivals, while all good citoyennes
are requested to repel them from their homes. All good citizens are requested to give to this
rural festivity that sentimental character which befits it."

--And the programme is carried out, here in idyllic shape and there under compulsion. Around
Avignon,[4295] the commanding officer, the battalions of volunteers, and patriotic ladies,
"the wives and daughters of patriots," inscribe themselves as harvesters. Around Arles, "the
municipality drafts all the inhabitants; patrols are sent into the country to compel all who
are engaged on other work to leave it and do the harvesting." The Convention, on its side,
orders[4296] the release, "provisionally, of all ploughmen, day-laborers, reapers, and professional
artisans and brewers, in the country and in the market towns and communes, the population of
which is not over twelve hundred inhabitants, and who are confined as 'suspects.' "--In other
terms, physical necessity has imposed silence on the inept theory; above all things, the crop
must be harvested, and indispensable arms be restored to the field of labor. The governors
of France are compelled to put on the brake, if only for an instant, at the last moment, at
sight of the yawning abyss, of approaching and actual famine; France was then gliding into
it, and, if not engulfed, it is simply a miracle.

Four fortunate circumstances, at the last hour, concur to keep her suspended on the hither
brink of the precipice.--The winter chances to be exceptionally mild.[4297] The vegetables
which make up for the absence of bread and meat provide food for April and May, while the remarkably
fine harvest, almost spontaneous, is three weeks in advance.--Another, and the second piece
of good fortune, consists in the great convoy from America, one hundred and sixteen vessels
loaded with grain, which reached Brest on the 8th of June, 1794, in spite of English cruisers,
thanks to the sacrifice of the fleet that protected it and which, eight days previously, had
succumbed in its behalf. The third stroke of fortune is the entry of a victorious army into
the enemies country and feeding itself through foreign requisitions, in Belgium, in the Palatinate
and on the frontier provinces of Italy and Spain.--Finally, most fortunate of all, Robespierre,
Saint Just and Couthon, the Paris commune and the theorist Jacobins, are guillotined on the
23rd of July, and with them falls despotic socialism. Henceforth, the Jacobin edifice crumbles,
owing to great crevices in its walls. The "maximum," in fact, is no longer maintained, while
the Convention, at the end of December, 1794, legally abolishes it. The farmers now sell as
they please and at two prices, according as they are paid in assignats or coin; their hope,
confidence and courage are restored; in October and November, 1794, they voluntarily do their
own plowing and planting, and still more gladly will they gather in their own crops in July,
1795. Nevertheless, we can judge by the discouragement into which they had been plunged by
four months of the system, the utter prostration into which they would have fallen had the
system lasted an indefinite time. It is very probable that cultivation at the end of one or
two years would have proved unproductive or have ceased altogether. Already, subject to every
sort of exhortation and threat, the peasant had remained inert, apparently deaf and insensible,
like an overloaded beast of burden which, so often struck, grows obstinate or sinks down and
refuses to move. It is evident that he would have never stirred again could Saint-Just, holding
him by the throat, have bound him hand and foot, as he had done at Strasbourg, in the multiplied
knots of his Spartan Utopia. We should have seen what labor and the stagnation it produces
comes to, when managed through State maneuvers by administrative manikins and humanitarian
automatons. This experiment had been tried in China, in the eleventh century, and according
to principles, long and regularly, by a well manipulated and omnipotent State, on the most
industrious and soberest people in the world, and men died in myriads like flies. If the French,
at the end of 1794 and during the following years did not die like flies, it was because the
Jacobin system was relaxed too soon.[4298]

VI. Relaxation.

     Relaxation of the Revolutionary system after Thermidor.
     --Repeal of the Maximum.--New situation of the peasant.--He
     begins to cultivation again.--Requisition of grain by the
     State.--The cultivator indemnifies himself at the expense of
     private persons.--Multiplication and increasing decline of
     Assignats. The classes who have to bear the burden.--Famine
     and misery during year III, and the first half of year IV.
     --In the country.--In the small towns.--In large towns and
     cities.

But, if the Jacobin system, in spite of its surviving founders, gradually relaxes after Thermidor;
if the main ligature tied around the man's neck, broke just as the man was strangling, the
others that still bind him hold him tight, except as they are loosened in places; and, as it
is, some of the straps, terribly stiffened, sink deeper and deeper into his flesh.--In the
first place, the requisitions continue there is no other way of provisioning the armies and
the cities; the gendarme is always on the road, compelling each village to contribute its portion
of grain, and at the legal rate. The refractory are subject to keepers, confiscations, fines
and imprisonment; they are confined and kept in the district lock ups "at their own expense,"
men and women, twenty two on Pluviôse 17, year III., in the district of Bar-sur-Aube; forty
five, Germinal 7, in the district of Troyes; forty-five, the same day, in the district of Nogent-sur-Seine,
and twenty others, eight days later, in the same district, in the commune of Traine alone.[4299]--The
condition of the cultivator is certainly not an easy one, while public authority, aided by
the public force, extorts from him all it can at a rate of its own; moreover, it will soon
exact from him one half of his contributions in kind, and, it must be noted, that at this time,
the direct contributions alone absorb twelve and thirteen sous on the franc of the revenue.
Nevertheless, under this condition, which is that of laborers in a Muslim country, the French
peasant, like the Syrian or Tunisian peasant, can keep himself alive; for, through the abolition
of the "maximum," private transactions are now free, and, to indemnify himself on this side,
he sells to private individuals and even to towns,[42100] by agreement, on understood terms,
and as dear as he pleases; all the dearer because through the legal requisitions the towns
are half empty, and there are fewer sacks of grain for a larger number of purchasers; hence
his losses by the government are more than made up by his gains on private parties; he gains
in the end, and that is why he persists in farming.

The weight, however, of which he relieves himself falls upon the overburdened buyer, and this
weight, already excessive, goes on increasing, through another effect of the revolutionary
institution, until it becomes ten-fold and even a hundred-fold.--The only money, in fact, which
private individuals possess melts away in their hands, and, so to say, destroys itself. When
the guillotine stops working, the assignat, losing its official value, falls to its real value.
In August, 1794, the loss on it is sixty six per cent., in October, seventy two per cent.,
in December, seventy eight per cent., in January, 1795, eighty one per cent., and after that
date the constant issues of enormous amounts, five hundred millions, then a billion, a billion
and a half, and, finally, two billions a month, hastens its depreciation.[42101] The greater
the depreciation of the assignats the greater the amount the government is obliged to issue
to provide for its expenses, and the more it issues the more it causes their depreciation,
so that the decline which increases the issue increases the depreciation, until, finally, the
assignat comes down to nothing. On March II, 1795, the louis d'or brings two hundred and five
francs in assignats, May 11, four hundred francs, June 12, one thousand francs, in the month
of October, one thousand seven hundred francs, November 13, two thousand eight hundred and
fifty francs, November 21 three thousand francs, and six months later, nineteen thousand francs.
Accordingly, an assignat of one hundred francs is worth in June, 1795, four francs, in August
three francs, in November fifteen sous, in December ten sous, and then five sous. Naturally,
all provisions rise proportionately in price. A pound of bread in Paris, January 2, 1796, costs
fifty francs, a pound of meat sixty francs, a pound of candles one hundred and eighty francs,
a bushel of potatoes two hundred francs, a bottle of wine one hundred francs. The reader may
imagine, if he can, the distress of people with small incomes, pensioners and employees, mechanics
and artisans in the towns out of work,[42102] in brief, all who have nothing but a small package
of assignats to live on, and who have nothing to do, whose indispensable wants are not directly
supplied by the labor of their own hands in producing wine, candles, meat, potatoes and bread.

Immediately after the abolition of the "maximum,"[42103] the cry of hunger increases. From
month to month its accents become more painful and vehement in proportion to the increased
dearness of provisions, especially in the summer of 1795, as the harvesting draws near, when
the granaries, filled by the crop of 1794, are getting empty. And these hungering cries go
up by millions: for a good many of the departments in France do not produce sufficient grain
for home consumption, this being the case in fertile wheat departments, and likewise in certain
districts; cries also go up from the large and small towns, while in each village numbers of
peasants fast because they have no land to provide them with food, or because they lack strength,
health, employment and wages. "For a fortnight past," writes a municipal body in Seine-et-Marne,[42104]
"at least two hundred citizens in our commune are without bread, grain and flour; they have
had no other food than bran and vegetables. We see with sorrow children deprived of nourishment,
their nurses without milk, unable to suckle them; old men falling down through inanition, and
young men in the fields too weak to stand up to their work." And other communes in the district
"are about in the same condition." The same spectacle is visible throughout the Ile-de-France,
Normandy, and in Picardy. Around Dieppe, in the country,[42105] entire communes support themselves
on herbs and bran. "Citizen representatives," write the administrators, "we can no longer maintain
ourselves. Our fellow citizens reproach us with having despoiled them of their grain in favor
of the large communes."--"All means of subsistence are exhausted," writes the district of Louviers;[42106]
"we are reduced here for a month past to eating bran bread and boiled herbs, and even this
rude food is getting scarce. Bear in mind that we have seventy-one thousand people to govern,
at this very time subject to all the horrors of famine, a large number of them having already
perished, some with hunger and others with diseases engendered by the poor food they live on.
"--In the Caen district,[42107] "the unripe peas, horse peas, beans, and green barley and rye
are attacked;" mothers and children go after these in the fields in default of other food;
"other vegetables in the gardens are already consumed; furniture, the comforts of the well
to do class, have become the prey of the farming egoist; having nothing more to sell they consequently
have nothing with which to obtain a morsel of bread."

"It is impossible," writes the representative on mission, "to wait for the crop without further
aid. As long as bran lasted the people ate that; none can now be found and despair is at its
height. I have not seen the sun since I came. The harvest will be a month behind. What shall
we do? What will become of us?"--"In Picardy," writes the Beauvais district, "the great majority
of people in the rural communes search the woods" to find mushrooms, berries and wild fruits.[42108]
"They think themselves lucky," says the Bapaume district, "if they can get a share of the food
of animals." "In many communes," the district of Vervier reports, "the inhabitants are reduced
to living on herbage." "Many families, entire communes," reports the Laon commissary, "have
been without bread two or three months and live on bran or herbs.... Mothers of families, children,
old men, pregnant women, come to the (members of the) Directory for bread and often faint in
their arms.

And yet, great as the famine is in the country it is worse in the towns; and the proof of it
is that the starving people flock into the country to find whatever they can to live on, no
matter how, and, generally speaking, in vain.--"Three quarters of our fellow citizens," writes
the Rozoy municipality,[42109] "are forced to quit work and overrun the country here and there,
among the farmers, to obtain bread for specie, and with more entreaty than the poorest wretches;
for the most part, they return with tears in their eyes at not being able to find, not merely
a bushel of wheat, but a pound of bread." "Yesterday," writes the Montreuil-sur-Mer municipality,[42110]
"more than two hundred of our citizens set out to beg in the country," and, when they get nothing,
they steal. "Bands of brigands[42111] spread through the country and pillage all dwellings
anywise remote. ... Grain, flour, bread, cattle, poultry, stuffs, etc., all come in play. Our
terrified shepherds are no longer willing to sleep in their sheep pens and are leaving us."
The most timid dig Carrots at night or, during the day, gather dandelions; but their town stomachs
cannot digest this food. "Lately," writes the procureur--syndic of Saint-Germain,[42112] "the
corpse of a father of a family, found in the fields with his mouth still filled with the grass
he had striven to chew, exasperates and arouses the spirit of the poor creatures awaiting a
similar fate."

What then, do people in the towns do in order to survive?--In small towns or scattered villages,
each municipality, using what gendarmes it has, makes legal requisitions in its vicinity, and
sometimes the commune obtains from the government a charitable gift of wheat, oats, rice or
assignats. But the quantity of grain it receives is so small, one asks how it is that, after
two months, six months or a year of such a system, that half of the inhabitants are not in
the grave yard. I suppose that many of them live on what they raise in their gardens, or on
their small farms; others are helped by their relations, neighbors and companions; in any event,
it is clear that the human body is very resistant, and a few mouthfuls suffice to keep it going
a long time.--At Ervy,[42113] in Aube, "not a grain of wheat has been brought in the last two
market days." "To morrow,[42114] Prairial 25, in Bapaume, the main town of the district, there
will be only two bushels of flour left (for food of any sort)." "At Boulogne-sur-Mer, for the
past ten days, there has been distributed to each person only three pounds of bad barley, or
maslin, without knowing whether we can again distribute this miserable ration next decade."
Out of sixteen hundred inhabitants in Brionne, "twelve hundred and sixty[42115] are reduced
to the small portion of wheat they receive at the market, and which, unfortunately, for too
long a time, has been reduced from eight to three ounces of wheat for each person, every eight
days." For three months past, in Seine et Marne,[42116] in "the commune of Meaux, that of Laferté,
Lagny, Daumartin, and other principal towns of the canton, they have had only half a pound
per head, for each day, of bad bread." In Seine et Oise, "citizens of the neighborhood of Paris
and even of Versailles[42117] state that they are reduced to four ounces of bread." At Saint-Denis,[42118]
with a population of six thousand, "a large part of the inhabitants, worn out with suffering,
betake themselves to the charity depots. Workmen, especially, cannot do their work for lack
of food. A good many women, mothers and nurses, have been found in their houses unconscious,
without any sign of life in them, and many have died with their infants at their breasts."
Even in a larger and less forsaken town, Saint-Germain,[42119] the misery surpasses all that
one can imagine. "Half-a-pound of flour for each inhabitant," not daily, but at long intervals;
"bread at fifteen and sixteen francs the pound and all other provisions at the same rate; a
people which is sinking, losing hope and perishing. Yesterday, for the fête of the 9th of Thermidor,
not a sign of rejoicing; on the contrary, symptoms of general and profound depression, tottering
specters in the streets, mournful shrieks of ravaging hunger or shouts of rage, almost every
one, driven to the last extremity of misery, welcoming death as a boon."

Such is the aspect of these huge artificial agglomerations, where the soil, made sterile by
habitation, bears only stones, and where twenty, thirty, fifty and a hundred thousand suffering
stomachs have to obtain from ten, twenty and thirty leagues off their first and last mouthful
of food. Within these close pens long lines of human sheep huddle together every day bleating
and trembling around almost empty troughs, and only through extraordinary efforts do the shepherds
daily succeed in providing them with a little nourishment. The central government, strenuously
appealed to, enlarges or defines the circle of their requisitions; it authorizes them to borrow,
to tax themselves; it lends or gives to them millions of assignats;[42120] frequently, in cases
of extreme want, it allows them to take so much grain or rice from its storehouses, for a week's
supply.--But, in truth, this sort of life is not living, it is only not dying. For one half,
and more than one half of the inhabitants simply subsist on rations of bread obtained by long
waiting for it at the end of a string of people and delivered at a reduced price. What rations
and what bread!"It seems," says the municipality of Troyes, "that[42121] the country has anathematized
the towns. Formerly, the finest grain was brought to market; the farmer kept the inferior quality
and consumed it at home. Now it is the reverse, and this is carried still further, for, not
only do we receive no wheat whatever, but the farmers give us sprouted barley and rye, which
they reserve for our commune; the farmer who has none arranges with those who have, so as to
buy it and deliver it in town, and sell his good wheat elsewhere. Half a pound per day and
per head, in Pluviôse, to the thirteen thousand or fourteen thousand indigent in Troyes; then
a quarter of a pound, and, finally, two ounces with a little rice and some dried vegetables,
"which feeble resource is going to fail us."[42122] Half a pound in Pluviôse, to the twenty
thousand needy in Amiens, which ration is only nominal, for "it often happens that each individual
gets only four ounces, while the distribution has repeatedly failed three days in succession,''
and this continues. Six months later, Fructidor 7, Amiens has but sixty nine quintals of flour
in its market storehouse, "an insufficient quantity for distribution this very day; to morrow,
it will be impossible to make any distribution at all, and the day after to morrow the needy
population of this commune will be brought down to absolute famine."--"Complete desperation!
There are already "many suicides."[42123] At other times, rage predominates and there are riots.
At Evreux,[42124] Germinal 21, a riot breaks out, owing to the delivery of only two pounds
of flour per head and per week, and because three days before, only a pound and a half was
delivered. There is a riot at Dieppe,[42125] Prairial 14 and 15, because "the people are reduced
here to three or four ounces of bread." There is another at Vervins, Prairial 9, because the
municipality which obtains bread at a cost of seven and eight francs a pound, raises the price
from twenty-five to fifty sous. At Lille, an insurrection breaks out Messidor 4, because the
municipality, paying nine francs for bread, can give it to the poor only for about twenty and
thirty sous.--Lyons, during the month of Nivôse, remains without bread "for five full days."[42126]
At Chartres, Thermidor 15,[42127] the distribution of bread for a month is only eight ounces
a day, and there is not enough to keep this up until the 20th of Thermidor. On the fifteenth
of Fructidor, La Rochelle writes that "its public distributions, reduced to seven or eight
ounces of bread, are on the point of failing entirely." For four months, at Painboeuf, the
ration is but the quarter of a pound of bread.[42128] And the same at Nantes, which has eighty-two
thousand inhabitants and swarms with the wretched; "the distribution never exceeded four ounces
a day," and that only for the past year. The same at Rouen, which contains sixty thousand inhabitants;
and, in addition, within the past fortnight the distribution has failed three times. In other
reports, those who are well-off suffer more than the indigent because they take no part in
the communal distribution, "all resources for obtaining food being, so to say, interdicted
to them."--Five ounces of bread per diem for four months is the allowance to the forty thousand
inhabitants of Caen and its district.[42129] A great many in the town, as well as in the country,
live on bran and wild herbs." At the end of Prairial, "there is not a bushel of grain in the
town storehouses, while the requisitions, enforced in the most rigorous and imposing style,
produce nothing or next to nothing." Misery augments from week to week: "it is impossible to
form any idea of it; the people of Caen live on brown bread and the blood of cattle. ... Every
countenance bears traces of the famine... Faces are of livid hue.... It is impossible to await
the new crop, until the end of Fructidor."--Such are the exclamations everywhere. The object
now, indeed, is to cross the narrowest and most terrible defile; a fortnight more of absolute
fasting and hundreds of thousands of lives would be sacrificed.[42130] At this moment the government
half opens the doors of its storehouses; it lends a few sacks of flour on condition of re-payment,--for
example, at Cherbourg a few hundreds of quintals of oats; by means of oat bread, the poor can
subsist until the coming harvest. But above all, it doubles its guard and shows its bayonets.
At Nancy, a traveler sees[42131] "more than three thousand persons soliciting in vain for a
few pounds of flour." They are dispersed with the butt-ends of muskets.--Thus are the peasantry
taught patriotism and the townspeople patience. Physical constraint exercised on all in the
name of all; this is the only procedure which an arbitrary socialism can resort to for the
distribution of food and to discipline starvation.

VII. Misery at Paris.

     Famine and misery at Paris.--Steps taken by the government
     to feed the capital.--Monthly cost to the Treasury.--Cold
     and hunger in the winter of 1794-1795.--Quality of the
     bread.--Daily rations diminished.--Suffering, especially of
     the populace.--Excessive physical suffering, despair,
     suicides, and deaths from exhaustion in 1795.--Government
     dinners and suppers.--Number of lives lost through want and
     war.--Socialism as applied, and its effects on comfort,
     well-being and mortality.

Anything that a totalitarian government may do to ensure that the capital is supplied with
food is undertaken and carried out by this one, for here is its seat, and one more degree of
dearth in Paris would overthrow it. Each week, on reading the daily reports of its agents,[42132]
it finds itself on the verge of explosion; twice, in Germinal and Prairial, a popular outbreak
does overthrow it for a few hours, and, if it maintains itself, it is on the condition of either
giving the needy a piece of bread or the hope of getting it. Consequently, military posts are
spaced out around Paris, up to eighteen leagues off, on all the highways; permanent patrols
in correspondence with each other to urge on the wagoners and draft relays of horses on the
spot. Escorts dispatched from Paris to meet convoys;[42133] requisition "all the carts and
all the horses whatever to effect transportation in preference to any other work or service."
All communes traversed by a highway are ordered to put rubble and manure on the bad spots and
cover the whole way with a layer of soil, so that the horses may drag their loads in spite
of the slippery road. The national agents are ordered to draft the necessary number of men
to break the ice around the water-mills.[42134] A requisition is made for "all the barley throughout
the length and breadth of the Republic, "this must be utilized to produce "the mixture for
making bread," while the brewers are forbidden to use barley in the manufacture of beer; the
starch makers are forbidden to convert potatoes into starch, with penalty of death against
all offenders "as destroyers of alimentary produce;" the breweries and starch-factories[42135]
are to be closed until further notice. Paris must have grain, no matter of what kind, no matter
how, and at any cost, not merely in the following week, but to-morrow, this very day, because
hunger chews and swallows everything, and it will not wait.--Once the grain is obtained, a
price must be fixed which people can pay. Now, the difference between the selling and cost
price is enormous; it keeps on increasing as the assignat declines and it is the government
which pays this. "You furnish bread at three sous," said Dubois-Crancé, Floréal 16, year III,[42136]
"and it costs you four francs. Paris consumes 8,000 quintals of meal daily, which expenditure
alone amounts to 1,200 millions per annum." Seven months later, when a bag of flour brings
13,000 francs, the same expenditure reaches 546 millions per month.--Under the ancient régime,
Paris, although overgrown, continued to be an useful organism; if it absorbed much, it elaborated
more; its productiveness compensated for what it consumed, and, every year, instead of exhausting
the public treasury it poured 77 millions into it. The new régime has converted it into a monstrous
canker in the very heart of France, a devouring parasite which, through its six hundred thousand
leeches, drains its surroundings for a distance of forty leagues, consumes one-half the annual
revenue of the State, and yet still remains emaciated in spite of the sacrifices made by the
treasury it depletes and the exhaustion of the provinces which supply it with food.

Always the same alimentary system, the same long lines of people waiting at, and before, dawn
in every quarter of Paris, in the dark, for a long time, and often to no purpose, subject to
the brutalities of the strong and the outrages of the licentious! On the 9th of Thermidor,
the daily trot of the multitude in quest of food has lasted uninterruptedly for seventeen months,
accompanied with outrages of the worst kind because there is less terror and less submissiveness,
with more obstinacy because provisions at free sale are dearer, with greater privation because
the ration distributed is smaller, and with more sombre despair because each household, having
consumed its stores, has nothing of its own to make up for the insufficiencies of public charity.--And
to cap it all, the winter of 1794-1795 is so cold[42137] that the Seine freezes and people
cross the Loire on foot. Rafts no longer arrive and, to obtain fire-wood, it is necessary "to
cut down trees at Boulogne, Vincennes, Verrières, St. Cloud, Meudon and two other forests in
the vicinity." Fuel costs "four hundred francs per cord of wood, forty sous for a bushel of
charcoal, twenty sous for a small basket. The needy are seen in the streets sawing the wood
of their bedsteads to cook with and to keep from freezing." On the resumption of transportation
by water amongst the cakes of ice "rafts are sold as fast as the raftsmen can haul the wood
out of the water, the people being obliged to pass three nights at the landing to get it, each
in turn according to his number." "On Pluviôse 3 at least two thousand persons are at the Louviers
landing," each with his card allowing him four sticks at fifteen sous each. Naturally, there
is pulling, hauling, tumult and a rush; "the dealers take to flight for fear, and the inspectors
come near being murdered;" they get away along with the police commissioner and "the public
helps itself." Likewise, the following day, there is "an abominable pillage;" the gendarmes
and soldiers placed there to maintain order, "make a rush for the wood and carry it away together
with the crowd." Bear in mind that on this day the thermometer is sixteen degrees below zero,
that one hundred, two hundred other lines of people likewise stand waiting at the doors of
bakers and butchers, enduring the same cold, and that they have already endured it and will
yet endure it a month and more. Words are wanting to describe the sufferings of these long
lines of motionless beings, during the night, at daybreak, standing there five or six hours,
with the blast driving through their rags and their feet freezing.--Ventôse is beginning, and
the ration of bread is reduced to a pound and a half;[42138] Ventôse ends, and the ration of
bread, kept at a pound and a half for the three hundred and twenty-four laborers, falls to
one pound; in fact, a great many get none at all, many only a half and a quarter of a pound.
Germinal follows and the Committee of Public Safety, finding that its magazines are giving
out, limits all rations to a quarter of a pound. Thereupon, on the 12th of Germinal, an insurrection
of workmen and women breaks out; the Convention is invaded and liberated by military force.
Paris is declared in a state of siege and the government, again in the saddle, tightens the
reins. Thenceforth, the ration of meat served out every four or five days, is a quarter of
a pound; bread averages every day, sometimes five, sometimes six and sometimes seven ounces,
at long intervals eight ounces, often three, two and one ounce and a half, or even none at
all; while this bread, black and "making mischief," becomes more and more worthless and detestable.[42139]
People who are well off live on potatoes, but only for them, for, in the middle of Germinal,
these cost fifteen francs the bushel and, towards the end, twenty francs; towards the end of
Messidor, forty-five francs; in the first month of the Directory, one hundred and eighty francs,
and then two hundred and eighty-four francs, whilst other produce goes up at the same rates.--After
the abolition of the "maximum" the evil springs not from a lack of provisions, but from their
dearness: the shops are well supplied. Whoever comes with a full purse gets what he wants[42140]:
The former rich, the property owners and large capitalists, may eat on the condition that they
hand their bundles of assignats over, that they withdrawing their last louis from its hiding-place,
that they sell their jewelry, clocks, furniture and clothes. And the nouveaux rich, the speculators,
the suppliers, the happy and extravagant robbers, spend four hundred, one thousand, three thousand,
then five thousand francs for their dinner, and revel in the great eating establishments on
fine wines and exquisite cheer: the burden of the scarcity is transferred to other shoulders.--At
present, the class which suffers, and which suffers beyond all bounds of patience is, together
with employees and people with small incomes,[42141] the crowd of workmen, the City plebeians,
the low Parisian populace

* which lives from day to day,

* which is Jacobin at heart,

* which made the Revolution in order to better itself,

* which finds itself worse off,

* which gets up one insurrection more on the 1st of Prairial,

* which forcibly enters the Tuileries yelling "Bread and the Constitution of '93,"

* which installs itself as sovereign in the Convention,

* which murders the Representative Féraud,

* which decrees a return to Terror, but which, put down by the National Guard, disarmed and
forced back into lasting obedience, has only to submit to the consequences of its own outrages,
the socialism it has itself instituted and the economical system it itself has organized.

Because the workers of Paris have been usurpers and tyrants they are now beggars. Owing to
the ruin brought on proprietors and capitalists by them, individuals can no longer employ them.
Owing to the ruin they have brought on the Treasury, the State can provide them with only the
semblance of charity, and hence, while all are compelled to go hungry, a great many die, and
many commit suicide.

* On Germinal 6th, "Section of the Observatory,"[42142] at the distribution, "forty-one persons
had been without bread; several pregnant women desired immediate confinement so as to destroy
their infants; others asked for knives to stab themselves."

* On Germinal 8th," a large number of persons who had passed the night at the doors of the
bakeries were obliged to leave without getting any bread."

* On Germinal 24th, "the police commissioner of the Arsenal section states that many become
ill for lack of food, and that he buries quite a number.... The same day, he has heard of five
or six citizens, who, finding themselves without bread, and unable to get other food, throw
themselves into the Seine."

* Germinal 27, "the women say that they feel so furious and are in such despair on account
of hunger and want that they must inevitably commit some act of violence.... In the section
of 'Les Amis de la Patrie,' one half have no bread.... Three persons tumbled down through weakness
on the Boulevard du Temple."

* Floréal 2, "most of the workmen in the 'République' section are leaving Paris on account
of the scarcity of bread."

* Floréal 5, "eighteen out of twenty-four inspectors state that patience is exhausted and that
things are coming to an end."

* Floréal 14, "the distribution is always unsatisfactory on account of the four-ounce ration;
two thirds of the citizens do without it. One woman, on seeing the excitement of her husband
and her four children who had been without bread for two days, trailed through the gutter tearing
her hair and striking her head; she then got up in a state of fury and attempted to drown herself."

* Floréal 20, "all exclaim that they cannot live on three ounces of bread, and, again, of such
bad quality. Mothers and pregnant women fall down with weakness."

* Floréal 21, "the inspectors state that they encounter many persons in the streets who have
fallen through feebleness and inanition."

* Floréal 23, "a citoyenne who had no bread for her child tied it to her side and jumped into
the river. Yesterday, an individual named Mottez, in despair through want, cut his throat."

* Floréal 25, "several persons, deprived of any means of existence, gave up in complete discouragement,
and fell down with weakness and exhaustion.... In the 'Gravilliers' section, two men were found
dead with inanition.... The peace officers report the decease of several citizens; one cut
his throat, while another was found dead in his bed." Floréal 28, "numbers of people sink down
for lack of something to eat; yesterday, a man was found dead and others exhausted through want."

* Prairial 24, "Inspector Laignier states that the indigent are compelled to seek nourishment
in the piles of garbage on the corners."

* Messidor 1,[42143] "the said Picard fell through weakness at ten o'clock in the morning in
the rue de la Loi, and was only brought to at seven o'clock in the evening; he was carried
to the hospital on a hand-barrow."

* Messidor 11, "There is a report that the number of people trying to drown themselves is so
great that the nets at St. Cloud scarcely suffice to drag them out of the water."

* Messidor 19, "A man was found on the corner of a street just dead with hunger."

* Messidor 27, "At four o'clock in the afternoon, Place Maubert, a man named Marcelin, employed
in the Jardin des Plantes, fell down through starvation and died while assistance was being
given to him." On the previous evening, the anniversary of the taking of the Bastille, a laborer
on the Pont-au-Change, says "I have eaten nothing all day. ''Another replies: "I have not been
home because I have nothing to give to my wife and children, dying with hunger." About the
same date, a friend of Mallet-Dupan writes to him "that he is daily witness to people amongst
the lower classes dying of inanition in the streets; others, and principally women, have nothing
but garbage to live on, scraps of refuse vegetables and the blood running out of the slaughter
houses. Laborers, generally, work on short time on account of their lack of strength and of
their exhaustion for want of food."[42144]--

Thus ends the rule of the Convention. Well has it looked out for the interests of the poor!
According to the reports of its own inspectors, "famished stomachs on all sides cry vengeance,
beat to arms and sound the tocsin of alarm[42145].... Those who have to dwell daily on the
sacrifices they make to keep themselves alive declare that there is no hope except in death."
Are they going to be relieved by the new government which the Convention imposes on them with
thunders of artillery and in which it perpetuates itself?[42146]--

* Brumaire 28, "Most of the workmen in the 'Temple' and 'Gravilliers' sections have done no
work for want of bread."

* Brumaire 24, "Citizens of all classes refuse to mount guard because they have nothing to eat."

* Brumaire 25, "In the 'Gravilliers' section the women say that they have sold all that they
possessed, while others, in the 'Faubourg-Antoine' section, declare that it would be better
to be shot down."

* Brumaire 30, "A woman beside herself came and asked a baker to kill her children as she had
nothing to give them to eat."

* Frimaire 1, 2, 3, and 4, "In many of the sections bread is given out only in the evening,
in others at one o'clock in the morning, and of very poor quality.... Several sections yesterday
had no bread."

* Frimaire 7, the inspectors declare that "the hospitals soon will not be vast enough to hold
the sick and the wretched."

* Frimaire 14, At the central market a woman nursing her child sunk down with inanition." A
few days before this, "a man fell down from weakness, on his way to Bourg l'Abbé."

"All our reports," say the district administrators, "resound with shrieks of despair." People
are infatuated; "it seems to us that a crazy spirit prevails universally, we often encounter
people in the street who, although alone, gesticulate and talk to themselves aloud." "How many
times," writes a Swiss traveller,[42147] who lived in Paris during the latter half of 1795,
"how often have I chanced to encounter men sinking through starvation, scarcely able to stand
up against a post, or else down on the ground and unable to get up for want of strength!" A
journalist states that he saw "within ten minutes, along the street, seven poor creatures fall
on account of hunger, a child die on its mother's breast which was dry of milk, and a woman
struggling with a dog near a sewer to get a bone away from him."[42148] Meissner never leaves
his hotel without filling his pockets with pieces of the national bread. "This bread," he says,
"which the poor would formerly have despised, I found accepted with the liveliest gratitude,
and by well educated persons;" the lady who contended with the dog for the bone was a former
nun, without either parents or friends and everywhere repulsed." "I still hear with a shudder,"
says Meissner, "the weak, melancholy voice of a well-dressed woman who stopped me in the rue
du Bac, to tell me in accents indicative both of shame and despair: 'Ah, Sir, do help me! I
am not an outcast. I have some talent--you may have seen some of my works in the salon. I have
had nothing to eat for two days and I am crazy for want of food.'" Again, in June, 1796, the
inspectors state that despair and despondency have reached the highest point, only one cry
being heard-misery!.... Our reports all teem with groans and complaints.. .. Pallor and suffering
are stamped on all faces.... Each day presents a sadder and more melancholy aspect." And repeatedly,[42149]
they sum up their scattered observations in a general statement:

* "A mournful silence, the deepest distress on every countenance;

* the most intense hatred of the government in general developed in all conversations;

* contempt for all existing authority;

* an insolent luxuriousness, insulting to the wretchedness of the poor rentiers who expire
with hunger in their garrets, no longer possessing the courage to crawl to the Treasury and
get the wherewithal to prolong their misery for a few days;

* the worthy father of a family daily deciding what article of furniture he will sell to make
up for what is lacking in his wages that he may buy a half-pound of bread;

* every sort of provision increasing in price sixty times an hour;

* the smallest business dependent on the fall of assignats;

* intriguers of all parties overthrowing each other only to get offices;

* the intoxicated soldier boasting of the services he has rendered and is to render, and abandoning
himself shamelessly to every sort of debauchery;

* commercial houses transformed into dens of thieves;

* rascals become traders and traders become rascals; the most sordid cupidity and a mortal
egoism--such is the picture presented by Paris."[42150]

One group is wanting in this picture, that of the governors who preside over this wretchedness,
which group remains in the background; one might say that it was so designed and composed by
some great artist, a lover of contrasts, an inexorable logician, whose invisible hand traces
human character unvaryingly, and whose mournful irony unfailingly depicts side by side, in
strong relief, the grotesqueness of folly and the seriousness of death. How many perished on
account of this misery? Probably more than a million persons.[42151]--

Try to take in at a glance the extraordinary spectacle presented on twenty-six thousand square
leagues of territory:

* The immense multitude of the starving in town and country,

* the long lines of women for three years waiting for bread in all the cities,

* this or that town of twenty-three thousand souls in which one-third of the population dies
in the hospitals in three months,

* the crowds of paupers at the poor-houses,

* the file of poor wretches entering and the file of coffins going out,

* the asylums deprived of their property, overcrowded with the sick, unable to feed the multitude
of foundlings pining away in their cradles the very first week, their little faces in wrinkles
like those of old men,

* the malady of want aggravating all other maladies, the long suffering of a persistent vitality
amidst pain and which refuses to succumb, the final death-rattle in a garret or in a ditch.

Contrast this with this the small, powerful, triumphant group of Jacobins which, having understood
how to place themselves in the good places, is determined to stay there at any cost.--About
ten o'clock in the morning,[42152] Cambacérès, president of the Committee of Public Safety,
is seen entering its hall in the Pavillon de l'Egalité. He is a large, cautious and shrewd
personage who will, later on, become arch-chancellor of the Empire and famous for his epicurean
inventions and other peculiar tastes revived from antiquity. Scarcely seated, he orders an
ample pat-au-feu to be placed on the chimney hearth and, on the table, "fine wine and fine
white bread; three articles," says a guest, "not to be found elsewhere in all Paris." Between
twelve and two o'clock, his colleagues enter the room in turn, take a plate of soup and a slice
of meat, swallow some wine, and then proceed, each to his bureau, to receive his coterie, giving
this one an office and compelling another to pay up, looking all the time after his own special
interests. At this moment, especially, towards the close of the Convention, there are no public
interests, all interests being private and personal.--In the mean time, the deputy in charge
of provisions, Roux de la Haute Marne, an unfrocked Benedictine, formerly a terrorist in the
provinces, subsequently the protégé and employee of Fouché, with whom he is to be associated
in the police department, keeps the throng of women in check which daily resorts to the Tuileries
to beg for bread. He is well adapted for this duty, being tall, chubby, ornamental, and with
vigorous lungs. He has taken his office in the right place, in the attic of the palace, at
the top of long, narrow and steep stairs, so that the line of women stretching up between the
two walls, piled one above the other, necessarily becomes immovable. With the exception of
the two or three at the front, no one has her hands free to grab the haranguer by the throat
and close the oratorical stop-cock. He can spout his tirades accordingly with impunity, and
for an indefinite time. On one occasion, his sonorous jabber rattles away uninterruptedly from
the top to the bottom of the staircase, from nine o'clock in the morning to five o'clock in
the afternoon. Under such a voluble shower, his hearers become weary and end by going home.--About
nine or ten o'clock in the evening, the Committee of Public Safety reassembles, but not to
discuss business. Danton and La Révellière preach in vain; each is too egoistic and too worn-out;
they let the rein slacken on Cambacérès. As to him, he would rather keep quiet and drag the
cart no longer; but there are two things necessary which he must provide for on pain of death.--"It
will not do," says he in plaintive tones, "to keep on printing the assignats at night which
we want for the next day. If that lasts, ma foi, we run the risk of being strung up at a lantern...Go
and find Hourier-Eloi, as he has charge of the finances, and tell him that we entreat him to
keep us a-going for a fortnight or eighteen days longer, when the executive Directory will
come in and do what it pleases." "But food--shall we have enough for to-morrow?

"Aha, I don't know--I'll send for our colleague Roux, who will post us on that point." Roux
enters, the official spokesman, the fat, jovial tamer of the popular dog. "Well, Roux, how
do we stand about supplying Paris with food?" "The supply, citizen President, is just as abundant
as ever, two ounces per head,--at least for most of the sections." "Go to the devil with your
abundant supply! You'll have our heads off!" All remain silent, for this possible dénouement
sets them to thinking. Then, one of them exclaims: "President, are there any refreshments provided
for us? After working so hard for so many days we need something to strengthen us!" "Why, yes;
there is a good calf's-tongue, a large turbot, a large piece of pie and some other things."
They cheer up, begin to eat and drink champagne, and indulge in drolleries. About eleven or
twelve o'clock the members of other Committees come in; signatures are affixed to their various
decrees, on trust, without reading them over. They, in their turn, sit down at the table and
the conclave of sovereign bellies digests without giving itself further trouble about the millions
of stomachs that are empty.

*****

[Footnote 4201: On the other more complicated functions, such as the maintenance of roads,
canals, harbors, public buildings, lighting, cleanliness, hygiene, superior secondary and primary
education, hospitals, and other asylums, highway security, the suppression of robbery and kindred
crimes, the destruction of wolves, etc., see Rocquam, "Etat de la France au 18 Brumaire," and
the "Statistiques des Departements," published by the prefets, from years IX. to XIII.--These
branches of the service were almost entirely overthrown; the reader will see the practical
results of their suppression in the documents referred to.]

[Footnote 4202: "St. John de Crêvecoeur," by Robert de Crêvecoeur, p.216. (Letter of Mdlle.
de Gouves, July, 1800.) "We are negotiating for the payment of, at least, the arrearages since
1789 on the Arras property." (M. de Gouves and his sisters had not emigrated, and yet they
had had no income from their property for ten years.)]

[Footnote 4203: Cf. "The Revolution," vol. I., 254-261, 311-352; vol. II., 234-272.]

[Footnote 4204: Cf. "The Revolution," II., 273-276.]

[Footnote 4205: Buchez et Roux, XXII., 178. (Speech by Robespierre in the Convention, December
2, 1792.)--Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires." I., 400. About the same date, "a deputation from the department
of Gard expressly demands a sum of two hundred and fifty millions, as indemnity to the cultivator,
for grain which it calls national property."--This fearful sum of two hundred and fifty millions,
they add, is only a fictive advance, placing at its disposal real and purely national wealth,
not belonging in full ownership to any distinct member of the social body any more than the
pernicious metals minted as current coin."]

[Footnote 4206: Buchez et Roux, XXVI., 95. (Declaration of Rights presented in the Jacobin
Club, April 21, 1793.)]

[Footnote 4207: Decrees in every commune establishing a tax on the rich in order to render
the price of bread proportionate to wages, also in each large city to raise an army of paid
sans-culottes, that will keep aristocrats under their pikes, April 5-7.--Decree ordering the
forced loan of a billion on the rich, May 20-25--Buchez et Roux, XXV., 156. (Speech by Charles,
March 27.--Gorsas, "Courrier des Départements," No. for May I5, 1793. (Speech by Simon in the
club at Annecy.)--Speech by Guffroy at Chartres, and of Chalier and associates at Lyons, etc.]

[Footnote 4208: Report by Minister Claviéres, February 1, 1793, p. 27.--Cf. Report of M. de
Montesquiou, September 9, 1791, p. 47. "During the first twenty-six months of the Revolution
the taxes brought in three hundred and fifty-six millions less than they should naturally have
done."--There is the same deficit in the receipts of the towns, especially on account of the
abolition of the octroi. Paris, under this head, loses ten millions per annum.]

[Footnote 4209: Report by Cambon, Pluviôse 3, year III. "The Revolution and the war have cost
in four years five thousand three hundred and fifty millions above the ordinary expenses."
(Cambon, in his estimates, purposely exaggerates ordinary expenses of the monarchy. According
to Necker's budget, the expenditure in 1759 was fixed at five hundred and thirty-one millions
and not, as Cambon states, seven hundred millions. This raises the expenses of the Revolution
and of the war to seven thousand one hundred and twenty-one millions for the four and a half
years, and hence to one thousand five hundred and eighty-one millions per annum, that is to
say, to triple the ordinary expenses.) The expenses of the cities are therefore exaggerated
like those of the State and for the same reasons.]

[Footnote 4210: Schmidt, "Pariser Zustände," I. 93, 96. "During the first half of the year
1789 there were seventeen thousand men at twenty sous a day in the national workshops at Montmartre.
In 1790, there were nineteen thousand. In 1791, thirty-one thousand costing sixty thousand
francs a day. In 1790, the State expends seventy-five millions for maintaining the price of
bread in Paris at eleven sous for four pounds.--Ibid., 113. During the first six months of
1793 the State pays the Paris bakers about seventy-five thousand francs a day to keep bread
at three sous the pound.]

[Footnote 4211: Ibid. I., 139-144.]

[Footnote 4212: Decree of September 27, 1790. (Report by Lacuée, year IX.--Reports by préfets
under the Consulate (Reports of Laumont, préfet of the Lower-Rhine, year X.; of Coichen, préfet
of the Moselle, year XI., etc.)--Schmidt, Pariser Zustände," III., 205. ("The rate of interest
during the Revolution was from four to five per cent. per month; in 1796 from six to eight
per cent. per month, the lowest rate being two per cent. per month with security.")]

[Footnote 4215: Arthur Young, "Voyage en France," II., 360. (Fr. translation.) "I regard Bordeaux
as richer and more commercial than any city in England except London."]

[Footnote 4216: Ibid., II., 357. The statistics of exports in France in 1787 give three hundred
and forty-nine millions, and imports three hundred and forty millions (leaving out Lorraine.
Alsace, the three Evéchés and the West Indies).-Ibid., 360. In 1786 the importations from the
West Indies amounted to one hundred and seventy-four millions, of which St. Domingo furnished
one hundred and thirty-one millions; the exports to the West Indies amounted to sixty-four
millions, of which St. Domingo had forty-four millions. These exchanges were effected by five
hundred and sixty-nine vessels carrying one hundred and sixty-two thousand tons, of which Bordeaux
provided two hundred and forty-six vessels, carrying seventy-five thousand tons.--On the ruin
of manufactures cf. the reports of préfets in the year X., with details from each department.--Arthur
Young (II., 444) states that the Revolution affected manufactures more seriously than any other
branch of industry.]

[Footnote 4217: Reports of préfets. (Orme, year IX.) "The purchasers have speculated on the
profits for the time being, and have exhausted their resources. Many of them have destroyed
all the plantations, all the enclosures and even the fruit trees."--Felix Rocquam, ibid., 116.
(Report by Fourcroy on Brittany.) "The condition of rural structures everywhere demands considerable
capital. But no advances, based on any lasting state of things, can be made."--Ibid., 236.
(Report of Lacuée on the departments around Paris.) "The doubtful owners of national possessions
cultivate badly and let things largely go to ruin."]

[Footnote 4218: Reports by préfets, years X. and XI. In general, the effect of the partition
of communal possessions was disastrous, especially pasture and mountain grounds.--(Doubs.)
"The partition of the communal property has contributed, in all the communes, rather to the
complete ruin of the poor than to any amelioration of their fate."--(Lozére.) "The partition
of the communal property by the law of June 10, 1792, has proved very injurious to cultivation."
These partitions were numerous. (Moselle.) "Out of six hundred and eighty-six communes, one
hundred and seven have divided per capitum, five hundred and seventy-nine by families, and
one hundred and nineteen have remained intact."]

[Footnote 4219: Ibid. (Moselle.) Births largely increase in 1792. "But this is an exceptional
year. All kinds of abuses, paper-money, the non-payment of taxes and claims, the partition
in the communes, the sale for nothing of national possessions, has spread so much comfort among
the people that the poorer classes, who are the most numerous, have had no dread of increasing
their families, to which they hope some day to leave their fields and render them happy."]

[Footnote 4220: Mallet-Dupan, "Memoires," II., 29. (February 1, 1794.) "The late crop in France
was generally good, and, in some provinces, it was above the average... I have seen the statements
of two returns made from twenty-seven departments; they declare an excess of fifteen, twenty,
thirty and thirty-five thousand bushels of grain. There is no real dearth."]

[Footnote 4221: Schmidt, ibid., I., 110, and following pages.--Buchez et Roux, XX., 416. (Speeches
of Lequinio, November 27, 1792.)--Moniteur, XVII., 2. (Letter by Clement, Puy-de-Dome, June
15, 1793.) "For the past fifteen days bread has been worth sixteen and eighteen sous the pound.
There is the most frightful distress in our mountains. The government distributes one-eighth
of a bushel to each person, everybody being obliged to wait two days to take his turn. One
woman was smothered and several were wounded."]

[Footnote 4222: Cf. "La Revolution," I., 208; II., 294, 205, 230.--Buchez et Roux, XX., 431.
(Report of Lecointe-Puyraveau, Nov. 30, 1792.) (Mobs of four, five and six thousand men in
the departments of Eure-et-Loire, Eure, Orme, Calvados, Indre-et-Loire, Loiret, and Sarthe
cut down the prices of produce. The three delegates of the Convention disposed to interfere
have their lives saved only on condition of announcing the rate dictated to them.--Ibid., 409.
(Letter of Roland, Nov.27, 1792.)--XXI., 198. (Another letter by Roland, Dec. 6, 1792.) "All
convoys are stopped at Lissy, la Ferté, Milan, la Ferté-sous-Jouarre... Carts loaded with wheat
going to Paris have been forced to go back near Lonjumeau and near Meaux."]

[Footnote 4223: Archives Nationales, F. 7, 3265. (Letter of David, cultivator, and administrator
of the department of Seine-Inférieure, Oct.11, 1792; letter of the special committee of Rouen,
Oct.22; letter of the delegates of the executive power, Oct.20, etc.) "Reports from all quarters
state that the farmers who drive to market are considered and treated in their parishes as
aristocrats..... Each department keeps to itself: they mutually repel each other."]

[Footnote 4224: Buchez et Roux, XX., 409. (Letter of Roland, Nov. 271 1792.) "The circulation
of grain has for a long time encountered the greatest obstacles; scarcely a citizen now dares
to do that business."--Ibid., 417. (Speech by Lequinio.) "The monopoly of wheat by land-owners
and farmers is almost universal. Fright is the cause of it.... And where does this fear come
from? From the general agitation, and threats, with the bad treatment in many places of the
farmers, land-owners and traffickers in wheat known as bladiers."--Decrees of Sep.16, 1792,
and May 4, 1793.]

[Footnote 4225: Buchez et Roux, XIX. (Report by Cambon, Sep.22, 1792.) "The taxes no longer
reach the public treasury, because they are used for purchasing grain in the departments."
Ibid., XIX., 29. (Speech by Cambon, Oct.12, 1792.) "You can bear witness in your departments
to the sacrifices which well-to-do people have been obliged to make in helping the poor class.
In many of the towns extra taxes have been laid for the purchase of grain and for a thousand
other helpful measures."]

[Footnote 4226: Buchez et Roux, XX., 409. (Letter of Roland, Nov.29, 1792)--XXI., 199. (Deliberations
of the provisional executive council, Sep. 3, 1792.)--Dauban, "La Demagogie en 1793," p. 64.
(Diary kept by Beaulieu.) Ibid., 152.)]

[Footnote 4227: Schmidt, I., 110-130.--Decrees against the export of coin or ingots, Sep. 5
and 15, 1792.-Decree on stocks or bonds payable to bearer, Aug.14, 1792.]

[Footnote 4228: We might today call this sentiment a desire to acquire and retain. (Sentiment
of acquisiton). (SR.)]

[Footnote 4229: Taine's remark in a footnote. (SR.)]

[Footnote 4230: Archives Nationales, D., 55, I., file 2. (Letter by Joifroy, national agent
in the district of Bar-sur-Aube, Germinal 5, year III.) "Most of the farmers, to escape the
requisition, have sold their horses and replaced them with oxen."--Memoirs (in ms.) of M. Dufort
de Cheverney (communicated by M. Robert de Crévecoeur). In June, 1793, "the requisitions fall
like hail, every week, on wheat, hay, straw, oats, etc.," all at prices fixed by the contractors,
who make deductions, postpone and pay with difficulty. Then come requisitions for hogs. "This
was depriving all the country folks of what they lived on." As the requisitions called for
live hogs, there was a hog St. Bartholomew. Everybody killed his pig and salted it down." (Environs
of Blois.) In relation to refusing to gather in crops, see further on.--Dauban, "Paris in 1794,
p.229. (Ventose 24, general orders by Henriot.) "Citizen Guillon being on duty outside the
walls, saw with sorrow that citizens were cutting their wheat to feed rabbits with."]

[Footnote 4231: Decree of Messidor 23, year II., on the consolidation with the national domain
of the assets and liabilities of hospitals and other charitable institutions. (See reports
of prefets on the effect of this law, on the ruin of the hospitals, on the misery of the sick,
of foundlings and the infirm, from years IX. to XIII.)--Decrees of August 8 and 12, 1793, and
July 24, 1794, on academies and literary societies.--Decree of August 24, 1793, P 29, on the
assets and liabilities of communes.]

[Footnote 4232: Schmidt, I., 144. (Two billions September 27, 1793; one billion four hundred
millions June 19, 1794.)--Decree of August 24, September 13, 1793, on the conversion of title-deeds
and the formation of the Grand Ledger.--Decrees of July 31, August 30 and September 5, on calling
in the assignats à face royale.--Decrees of August 1 and September 5, 1793, on the refusal
to accept assignats at par.]

[Footnote 4233: Archives Nationales, F.7, 4421. (Documents on the revolutionary taxes organized
at Troyes, Brumaire 11, year II.) Three hundred and seventy-three persons are taxed, especially
manufacturers, merchants and land-owners; the minimum of the tax is one hundred francs, the
maximum fifty thousand francs, the total being one million seven hundred and sixty-two thousand
seven hundred francs. Seventy-six petitions attached to the papers show exactly the situation
of things in relation to trade, manufactures and property, the state of fortunes and credit
of the upper and lower bourgeois class.]

[Footnote 4234: Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires," II., 17. "I have seen the thirty-second list of émigrés
at Marseilles, merely of those whose possessions have been confiscated and sold; there are
twelve thousand of them, and the lists were not finished."--Reports of préfets. (Var by Fanchet,
year IX.) "The emigration of 1793 throws upon Leghorn and the whole Italian coast a very large
number of Marseilles and Toulon traders. These men, generally industrious, have established
(there) more than one hundred and sixty soap factories and opened a market for the oil of this
region. This event may be likened to the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes."--Cf. the reports
on the departments of the Rhône, Aude, Lot and Garonne, Lower Pyrenees, Orme, etc.]

[Footnote 4235: Archives des Affaires Étrangères, vol. 332. (Letter of Désgranges, Bordeaux,
Brumaire 12, year II.) "Nobody here talks about trade any more than if it had never existed."]

[Footnote 4236: Dr. Jaïn, "Choix de documents et lettres privées trouvees dans des papiers
de famille," p.144. (Letter of Gédëon Jaïn, banker at Paris, November 18, 1793.) "Business
carried on with difficulty and at a great risk occasion frequent and serious losses, credit
and resources being almost nothing."]

[Footnote 4237: Archives Nationales, F.7, 2475. (Letters of Thullier, procureur-syndic of the
Paris department, September 7 and 10, 1793.--Report by a member of the Piques section, September
8 and 10, 1793.--Cf. the petitions of traders and lawyers imprisoned at Troyes, Strasbourg,
Bordeaux, etc.--Archives Nationales, AF.,II., 271. (Letter of Buissart to his friend Maximilian
Robespierre, Arras, Pluviose 14, year II.) "we are dying with starvation in the midst of abundance;
I think that the mercantile aristocracy ought to be killed out like the nobles and priests.
The communes, with the help of a storehouse of food and goods must alone be allowed to trade.
This idea, well carried out, can be realized; then, the benefits of trade will turn to the
advantage of the Republic, that is to say, to the advantage of buyer and seller."]

[Footnote 4239: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 49. (Documents on the levy of revolutionary
taxes, Belfort, Brumaire 30, year II.) "Verneur, sr., taxed at ten thousand livres, for having
withheld goods deposited with him by his sister, in order to save them from the coming taxation."
Campardon I., 292. (Judgments of the revolutionary commission at Strasbourg.)--"The head-clerk
in Hecht's apothecary shop is accused of selling two ounces of rhubarb and manna at fifty-four
sous; Hecht, the proprietor, is condemned to a fine of fifteen thousand livres. Madeleine Meyer,
at Rosheim, a retailer, is accused of selling a candle for ten sous and is condemned to a fine
of one thousand livres, payable in three days. Braun, butcher and bar-keeper, accused of having
sold a glass of wine for twenty sous, is condemned to a fine of forty thousand francs, to be
imprisoned until this is paid, and to exposure in the pillory before his own house for four
hours, with this inscription: debaser of the national currency."--"Recueil de Pieces, etc.,
at Strasbourg," (supplement, pp. 21, 30, 64). "Marie Ursule Schnellen and Marie Schultzmann,
servant, accused of monopolising milk. The former is sentenced to the pillory for one day under
a placard, monopoliser of milk, and to hold in one hand the money and, in the other, the milk-pot;
the other, a servant with citizen Benner. ... he, the said Benner, is sentenced to a fine of
three hundred livres, payable in three days."--"Dorothy Franz, convicted of having sold two
heads of salad at twenty sous, and of thus having depreciated the value of assignats, is sentenced
to a fine of three thousand livres, imprisonment for six weeks and exposure in the pillory
for two hours."--Ibid., I., 18. "A grocer, accused of having sold sugar-candy at lower than
the rate, although not comprised in the list, is sentenced to one hundred thousand livres fine
and imprisonment until peace is declared."--Orders by Saint-Just and Lebas, Nivose 3, year
II. "The criminal court of the department of the Lower-Rhine is ordered to destroy the house
of any one convicted of having made sales below the rates fixed by the maximum," consequently,
the house of one Schauer, a furrier, is torn down, Nivose 7.]

[Footnote 4240: Archives des Affaires Étrangères, vol. 322. (Letter by Haupt, Belfort, Brumaire
3, year II.) "On my arrival here, I found the law of the maximum promulgated and in operation...
(but) the necessary steps have not been taken to prevent a new monopoly by the country people,
who have flocked in to the shops of the dealers, carried off all their goods and created a
factitious dearth."]

[Footnote 4241: Archives Nationales, F.7, 4421. (Petitions of merchants and shop-keepers at
Troyes in relation to the revolutionary tax, especially of hatters, linen, cotton and woollen
manufacturers, weavers and grocers. There is generally a loss of one-half, and sometimes of
three-fourths of the purchase money.)]

[Footnote 4242: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol.330. (Letter of Brutus, Marseilles, Nivose
6, year II.) "Since the maximum everything is wanting at Marseilles."--Ibid. (Letter by Soligny
and Gosse, Thionville, Nivose 5, year II.) "No peasant is willing to bring anything to market...
They go off six leagues to get a better price and thus the communes which they once supplied
are famishing.. According as they are paid in specie or assignats the difference often amounts
to two hundred per cent., and nearly always to one hundred per cent."--"Un Sejour en France,"
pp. 188-189.--Archives Nationales, D.. P I., file 2. "The municipalities have always got themselves
exempted from the requisitions, which all fall on the farmers and proprietors unable to satisfy
them.... The allotment among the tax-payers is made with the most revolting inequality....
Partiality through connections of relatives and of friendship."]

[Footnote 4243: Decrees of September 29, 1793 (articles 8 and 9); of May 4 and 20, and June
26, 1794.--Archives Nationales, AF., II., 68-72. (Orders of the Committee of Public Safety,
Prairial 26, year II.) "The horses and wagons of coal peddlers, the drivers accustomed to taking
to Paris by law a portion of the supply of coal used in baking in the department of Seine-et-Marne,
are drafted until the 1st of Brumaire next, for the transportation of coal to Paris. During
this time they cannot be drafted for any other service." (A good many orders in relation to
provisions and articles of prime necessity may be found in these files, mostly in the handwriting
of Robert Lindet.)]

[Footnote 4244: Cf. "The Revolution," II., 69.--Dauban, "Paris en 1794." (Report by Pouvoyeur,
March 15, 1794.) "A report has been long circulated that all the aged were to be slaughtered;
there is not a place where this falsehood is not uttered."]

[Footnote 4245: Archives Nationales, F.7, 4435, file 10, letters of Collot d'Herbois, Brumaire
17 and 19, year II.--De Martel, "Fouché," 340, 341. Letters of Collot d'Herbois, November 7
and 9, 1793.]

[Footnote 4246: De Martel, ibid., 462. (Orders of Taillefer and Marat-Valette, and Deliberations
of the Directory of Lot, Brumaire 20, year II.)]

[Footnote 4249: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol. 331. (Letter of the agent Bertrand,
Frimaire 3.)]

[Footnote 4250: Ibid., vol. 1332. (Letter of the agent Chépy, Brumaire 2.)]

[Footnote 4251: Ibid., vol.1411. (Letter of Blessmann and Hauser, Brumaire 30.)--Ibid. (Letter
of Haupt, Belfort, Brumaire 29.) "I believe that Marat's advice should be followed here and
a hundred scaffolds be erected; there are not guillotines enough to cut off the heads of the
monopolists. I shall do what I can to have the pleasure of seeing one of these damned bastards
play hot cockles."]

[Footnote 4252: Ibid., vol.333. (Letter of Garrigues, Pluviôse 16.)]

[Footnote 4253: "Souvenirs et Journal d'un Bourgeois d'Evreux," pp.83-85. (June and July, 1794.)--Ibid.,
at Nantes.--Dauban, "Paris en 1794," p.194, March 4.]

[Footnote 4254: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vols. 331 and 332. (Letters of Désgranges,
Frimaire 3 and 8 and 10.) "Many of the peasants have eaten no bread for a fortnight. Most of
them no longer work." Buchez et Roux, XVIII., 346. (Session of the convention, Brumaire 14,
Speech by Legendre.)]

[Footnote 4255: Moniteur, xix., 671. (Speech by Tallien, March 12, 1794.) Buchez et Roux, XXXII.,
423. (Letter of Jullien, June 15, 1794.)]

[Footnote 4256: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 111. (Letters of Michaud, Chateauroux, Pluviôse
18 and 19, year II.)]

[Footnote 4257: Dauban, "Paris en 1794," 410, 492, 498. (Letters frora the national agent of
the district of Sancoins, Thermidor 9, year II.; from the Directory of Allier, Thermidor 9;
from the national agent of the district of Villefort, Thermidor 9.)--Gouverneur Morris, April
10, 1794, says in a letter to Washington that the famine in many places is extremely severe.
Men really die of starvation who have the means to buy bread if they could only get it.]

[Footnote 4258: Volney, "Voyage en Orient," II., 344. "When Constantinople lacks food twenty
provinces are starved for its supply."]

[Footnote 4259: Archives Nationales, AF., II, 46, 68. (Decree of committee of Public Safety.)
The Treasury pays over to the city of Paris for subsistence, on Aug. 2, 1793, two millions,
August 14, three, and September 2nd, one million; September 8, 16, and 23, one million each,
and so on.... Between August 7, 1793 and Germinal '9, year II., the Treasury paid over to Paris,
thirty one millions.]

[Footnote 4260: Ibid, AF., II., 68. Decrees of Brumaire 14, Nivôse 7 and Germinal 22 on the
departments assigned to the supply of Paris. Buchez et Roux, XXVIII., 489. (Speech by Danton
in Jacobin club, Aug.28, '793.) "I constantly asserted that it was necessary to give all to
the mayor of Paris if he exacted it to feed its inhabitants.. .. Let us sacrifice one hundred
and ten millions and save Paris and through it, the Republic."]

[Footnote 4261: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vols. 1410 and 1411. Reports of June 20 and
21, 1793, July 21, 22, 28, 29 and 31, and every day of the months of August and September,
1793. Schmidt, "Tableaux de la Revolution Française," vol. II., passim--Dauban, "Paris in 1794,"
(especially throughout Ventôse, year II.).--Archives Nationales, F.7, 31167. (Reports for Nivôse,
year II.)]

[Footnote 4262: Dauban, "Paris en 1794,". (Report of Ventôse 2.)]

[Footnote 4263: Mercier, "Paris Pendant la Revolution," I., 355.]

[Footnote 4264: Archives des Affaires étrangères, 141 I. (Reports of August 1 and 2, 1763.)
"At one o'clock in the morning, we were surprised to find men and women lying along the sides
of the houses patiently waiting for the shops to open."--Dauban, 231. (Report of Ventôse 24.)
To obtain the lights of a hog, at the slaughter house near the Jardin des Plantes, at the rate
of three francs ten sous, instead of thirty sous as formerly, women "were lying on the ground
with little baskets by their side and waiting four and five hours."]

[Footnote 4265: Archives Nationales, F.7, 31167. (Reports of Nivôse 9 and 28.) "The streets
of Paris are always abominable; they are certainly afraid to use those brooms." Dauban, 120.
(Ventôse 9.) "The rue St. Anne is blocked up with manure. In that part of it near the Rue Louvois,
heaps of this stretch along the walls for the past fortnight."]

[Footnote 4266: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol.1411. (Reports of August 9, 1793.) Mercier,
I., 353.--Dauban, 530. (Reports of Fructidor 27, year II. "There are always great gatherings
at the coal depots. They begin at midnight. one, two o'clock in the morning. Many of the habitués
take advantage of the obscurity and commit all sorts of indecencies."]

[Footnote 4267: Schmidt, "Tableaux de la Revolution Française," II., 155. (Reports of Ventôse
25.)--Dauban, 188. (Reports of Ventôse 19).--Ibid., (Reports of Ventôse 2.) Ibid., 126. (Reports
of Ventôse 10.)--Archives Nationales, F. 7, 31167. (Reports of Nivôse 28, year II.) The women
"denounce the butchers and pork sellers who pay no attention to the maximum law, giving only
the poorest meat to the poor." Ibid., (Reports of Nivôse 6.) "It is frightful to see what the
butchers give the people."]

[Footnote 4268: Mercier, 363. "The women struggled with all their might against the men and
contracted the habit of swearing. The last on the row knew how to worm themselves up to the
head of it." Buchez et Roux, XXVIII., 364. ("Journal de la Montague," July 28, 1793. "One citizen
was killed on Sunday, July 21, one of the Gravilliers (club) in trying to hold on to a six
pound loaf of bread which he had just secured for himself and family. Another had a cut on
his arm the same day in the Rue Froid-Manteau. A pregnant woman was wounded and her child died
in her womb."]

[Footnote 4269: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol.1410. (Reports of August 6 and 7, 1793.)]

[Footnote 4270: Dauban, 144. (Reports of Ventôse 19.)]

[Footnote 4271: Dauban, 199. (Reports of Ventôse 19.)--Dauban, "La Demagogie en 1793," p. 470.
"Scarcely had the peasants arrived when harpies in women's clothes attacked them and carried
off their goods.... Yesterday, a peasant was beaten for wanting to sell his food at the 'maximum'
rate." (October 19, 1793.)--Dauban, "Paris en 1794," 144, 173, 199. (Reports of Ventôse 13,
17 and 19.)--Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol. 1410. (Reports of June 26 and 27, 1793.)
Wagons and boats are pillaged for candles and soap.]

[Footnote 4272: Dauban, 45. (Reports of Pluviôse 17.) 222. (Reports of Ventôse 23.)--160. (Reports
of Ventôse 15.)--340. (Reports of Germinal 28.)--87. (Reports of Ventôse 5.)]

[Footnote 4273: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 116. (Order of Paganel, Castres, Pluviôse 6
and 7, year II. "The steps taken to obtain returns of food have not fulfilled the object....
The statements made are either false or inexact.") Cf., for details, the correspondence of
the other representatives on mission.--Dauban," Paris en 1794." 190. (Orders of the day. Pluviôse
17.) Lamps are set up at all the posts, "especially at la Greve and Passy, so as to light up
the river and see that no eatables pass outside."--Mercier, I., 355.--Dauban, 181. (Reports
of Ventôse 18.)--210. (Reports of Ventôse 21.)--190. Speech by Fouquier, Ventôse 19.) "The
butchers in Paris who cannot sell above the maximum carry the meat they buy to the Sèvres butchers
and sell it at any price they please. "--257. (Reports of Ventôse 27.) "You see, about ten
o'clock in the evening, aristocrats and other egoists coming to the dealers who supply Egalité's
mansion (the Duke of Orleans) and buy chickens and turkeys which they carefully conceal under
their overcoats."]

[Footnote 4275: Dauban, 255. (Orders of the day by Henriot, Ventôse 27.) "I have to request
my brethren in arms not to take any rations whatever. This little deprivation will silence
the malevolent who seek every opportunity to humble us."--Ibid.,359. "On Floreal 29, between
five and six o'clock in the morning, a patrol of about fifteen men of the Bonnet Rouge section,
commanded by a sort of commissary, stop subsistences on the Orleans road and take them to their
section."]

[Footnote 4276: Dauban, 341. (Letter of the Commissioner on Subsistences, Germinal 23.) "The
supplies are stolen under the people's eyes, or what they get is of inferior quality." (Report
of Leharivel, Nivôse 7.)--The gunsmiths employed by the government likewise state that they
have for a long time had nothing to eat but bread and cheese.]

[Footnote 4279: Dauban, 231. (Report of Perriére, Ventôse 24.) "Butter of which they make a god."]

[Footnote 4280: Ibid., 68. (Report of Ventôse 2.)]

[Footnote 4281: Archives Nationales, F.7, 31167. (Report of Nivôse 28.)--Dauban, 144. (Report
of Nivôse 14.)]

[Footnote 4282: Dauban, 81. (Report of Latour-Lamontagne, Ventôse 4.)]

[Footnote 4283: "Souvenirs et Journal d'un Bourgeois d'Evreux," 83. "Friday, June 15, 1794,
a proclamation is made that all who have any provisions in their houses, wheat, barley, rye,
flour and even bread, must declare them within twenty four hours under penalty of being regarded
as an enemy of the country and declared 'suspect,' put under arrest and tried by the courts."--Schmidt,
"Tableaux de la Revolution Française," II.. 214. A seizure is made at Passy of two pigs and
forty pounds of butter, six bushels of beans, etc., in the domicile of citizen Lucet who had
laid in supplies for sixteen persons of his own household.]

[Footnote 4284: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 68. Orders of the Committee of Public Safety,
Pluviôse 23, referring to the law of Brumaire 25, forbidding the extraction of more than fifteen
pounds of bran from a quintal of flour. Order directing the removal of bolters from bakeries
and mills; he who keeps or conceals these on his property "shall be treated as 'suspect' and
put under arrest until peace is declared."--Berryat Saint Prix, 357, 362. At Toulouse, three
persons are condemned to death for monopoly. At Montpelier, a baker, two dealers and a merchant
are guillotined for having invoiced, concealed and kept a certain quantity of gingerbread cakes
intended solely for consumption by anti-revolutionaries.]

