Carpinus viminea[4] is a rather striking species with long-pointed leaves; the accompanying
figure scarcely gives a sufficiently clear representation of their long, tail-like prolongations.
Judging from the height at which it grows, it would probably prove hardy in this country, and,
if so, the distinct aspect and graceful habit of the tree would render it a decided acquisition.
It is a moderate-sized tree, with thin gray bark, and slender, drooping warted branches. The
blade of the smooth leave measures from 3 inches to 4 inches in length, the hairy leaf-stalk
being about half an inch long. It is a native of Himalaya, where it occurs at elevations of
from 5000 to 7000 feet above sea-level. As in our common hornbeam, the male catkins appear
before the leaves, and the female flowers develop in spring at the same time as the leaves.
The hard, yellowish white wood--a cubic foot of which weighs 50 lb.--is used for ordinary building
purposes by the natives of Nepaul.

  [Footnote 4: IDENTIFICATION.--Carpinus viminea, Lindl. in Wall.
  Plant. Asiat. Rar., ii., p. 4, t. 106; D.C. Prodr., xvi., ii.,
  127. Loudon, "Arboretum et Fruticetum Britannicum," iii., p. 2014;
  Encycl. of Trees and Shrubs, p. 919. Brandis, "Forest Flora,"
  492.]

GEORGE NICHOLSON. Royal Gardens, Kew.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRUIT OF CAMELLIA JAPONICA.

The fruiting of the camellia in this country being rather uncommon, we have taken the opportunity
of illustrating one of three sent to us a fortnight ago by Mr. J. Menzies, South Lytchett,
who says: "The fruits are from a large plant of the single red, grown out of doors against
a wall with an east aspect, and protected by a glazed coping 4 feet wide. The double, semi-double,
and single varieties have from time to time borne fruit out of doors here, from which I have
raised seedlings, but have hitherto failed to get any variety worth sending out or naming."

In the annexed woodcut the fruit is represented natural size. Its appearance is somewhat singular.
It is very hard, and has a glazed appearance like that of porcelain. The color is pale green,
except on the exposed side, which is dull red. It is furrowed like a tomato, and on the day
after we received it the furrows opened and exposed three or four large mahogany-brown seeds
embedded in hard pulp.--The Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

[SCIENCE.]

A NEW RULE FOR DIVISION IN ARITHMETIC.

The ordinary process of long division is rather difficult, owing to the necessity of guessing
at the successive figures which form the divisor. In case the repeating decimal expressing
the exact quotient is required, the following method will be found convenient:

Rule for division.

First. Treat the divisor as follows:

  If its last figure is a 0, strike this off, and treat what is left
  as the divisor.

  If its last figure is a 5, multiply the whole by 2, and treat the
  product as the divisor.

  If its last figure is an even number, multiply the whole by 5, and
  treat the product as a divisor.

Repeat this treatment until these precepts cease to be applicable. Call the result the prepared
divisor.

Second. From the prepared divisor cut off the last figure: and, if this be a 9, change it to
a 1, or if it be a 1, change it to a 9; otherwise keep it unchanged. Call this figure the extraneous
multiplier.

Multiply the extraneous multiplier into the divisor thus truncated, and increase the product
by 1, unless the extraneous multiplier be 7, when increase the product by 5. Call the result
the current multiplier.

Third. Multiply together the extraneous multiplier and all the multipliers used in the process
of obtaining the prepared divisor. Use the product to multiply the dividend, calling the result
the prepared dividend.

Fourth. From the prepared dividend cut off the last figure, multiply this by the current multiplier,
and add the product to the truncated dividend. Call the sum the modified dividend, and treat
this in the same way. Continue this process until a modified dividend is reached which equals
the original prepared dividend or some previous modified dividend; so that, were the process
continued, the same figures would recur.

Fifth. Consider the series of last figures which have been successively cut off from the prepared
dividend and from the modified dividends as constituting a number, the figure first cut off
being in the units' place, the next in the tens' place, and so on. Call this the first infinite
number, because its left-hand portion consists of a series of figures repeating itself indefinitely
toward the left. Imagine another infinite number, identical with the first in the repeating
part of the latter, but differing from this in that the same series is repeated uninterruptedly
and indefinitely toward the right into the decimal places.

Subtract the first infinite number from the second, and shift the decimal point as many places
to the left as there were zeros dropped in the process of obtaining the prepared divisor.

The result is the quotient sought.

Examples.

1. The following is taken at random. Divide 1883 by 365.

First. The divisor, since it ends in 5, must be multiplied by 2, giving 730. Dropping the O,
we have 73 for the prepared divisor.

Second. The last figure of the prepared divisor being 3, this is the extraneous multiplier.
Multiplying the truncated divisor, 7, by the extraneous multiplier, 3, and adding 1, we have
22 for the current multiplier.

Third. The dividend, 1883, has now to be multiplied by the product of 3, the extraneous multiplier,
and 2, the multiplier used in preparing the divisor. The product, 11298, is the prepared dividend.

Fourth. From the prepared dividend, 11298, we cut off the last figure 8, and multiply this
by the current multiplier, 22. The product, 176, is added to the truncated dividend, 1129,
and gives 1305 for the first modified divisor. The whole operation is shown thus:

                   1 8 8 3
                         6
                   -------
                 1 1 2 9|8
                   1 7 6 -
                   -----
                 1 3 0|5
                 1 1 0 -
                 -----
                 2|4 0
               8 8 ---
               ---
              |9 0
           -----
           1 9|8
         1 7 6 -
         -----
         1 9|5
       1 1 0 -
       -----
       1 2|9
     1 9 8 -
     -----
     2|1 0
   2 2 ---
   2 4

We stop at this point because 24 was a previous modified dividend, written under the form 240
above. Our two infinite numbers (which need not in practice be written down) are, with their
difference:

          .        .
          10,958,904,058      .      .
          10,958,904,109.5890410958904
          ----------------------------
                              .      .
                      51.5890410958904
                                .      .
Hence the quotient sought is 5.158904109.

Example 2. Find the reciprocal of 333667. Answer, 0.000002997.

Example 3. Find the reciprocal of 41.

Solution.--

                    4|1                 |9
                    -----              -----
                    3 7|9              3 3|3
                        -            1 1 1 -
                                     -----
                                     1 4|4
                                   1 4 8 -
                                   -----
                                   1 6|2
                                   7 4 -
                                   ---
                                   9 0
            .   .
Answer, 0.02439.

C.S. PEIRCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

[SCIENCE.]

EXPERIMENTS IN BINARY ARITHMETIC.

Those who can perform in that most necessary of all mathematical operations, simple addition,
any great number of successive examples or any single extensive example without consciousness
of a severe mental strain, followed by corresponding mental fatigue, are exceptions to a general
rule. These troubles are due to the quantity and complexity of the matter with which the mind
has to be occupied at the same time that the figures are recognized. The sums of pairs of numbers
from zero up to nine form fifty-five distinct propositions that must be borne in memory, and
the "carrying" is a further complication. The strain and consequent weariness are not only
felt, but seen, in the mistakes in addition that they cause. They are, in great part, the tax
exacted of us by our decimal system of arithmetic. Were only quantities of the same value,
in any one column, to be added, our memory would be burdened with nothing more than the succession
of numbers in simple counting, or that of multiples of two, three, or four, if the counting
is by groups.

It is easy to prove that the most economical way of reducing addition to counting similar quantities
is by the binary arithmetic of Leibnitz, which appears in an altered dress, with most of the
zero signs suppressed, in the example below. Opposite each number in the usual figures is here
set the same according to a scheme in which the signs of powers of two repeat themselves in
periods of four; a very small circle, like a degree mark, being used to express any fourth
power in the series; a long loop, like a narrow 0, any square not a fourth power; a curve upward
and to the right, like a phonographic l, any double fourth power; and a curve to the right
and downward, like a phonographic r, any half of a fourth power; with a vertical bar to denote
the absence of three successive powers not fourth powers. Thus the equivalent for one million,
shown in the example slightly below the middle, is 2^{16} (represented by a degree-mark in
the fifth row of these marks, counting from the right) plus 2^{17} + 2^{9} (two l-curves in
the fifth and third places of l-curves) plus 2^{18} + 2^{14} + 2^{6} (three loops) plus 2^{19}
(the r-curve at the extreme left); while the absence of 2^{3}, 2^{2}, and 2^{1} is shown by
the vertical stroke at the right. This equivalent expression may be verified, if desired, either
by adding the designated powers of two from 524,288 down to 64, or by successive multiplications
by two, adding one when necessary. The form of characters here exhibited was thought to be
the best of nearly three hundred that were devised and considered and in about sixty cases
tested for economic value by actual additions.

