The dreaded Bishop sat at an immense ebony flat-topped desk. The room was furnished like his
mind, that is to say, sparsely, and without any southern exposure. A peculiarly terrifying
feature of the scene was that the top of the desk was completely bare, not a single paper lay
on it. Remembering his own desk in the newspaper office, Bleak felt that this was unnatural
and monstrous. He noticed a breathoscope on the mantelpiece, with its sensitive needle trembling
on the scaled dial which read thus:--

As he watched the indicator oscillate rapidly on the dial, and finally subside uncertainly
at zero, he thanked heaven that they had indulged in no psychic grogs that day.

The Bishop's black beard foamed downward upon the desk like a gloomy cataract. Quimbleton for
a moment was almost abashed, and regretted that he had not thought to whitewash his own dingy
thicket.

Bishop Chuff's piercing and cruel gaze stabbed all three. He ignored Theodolinda with contempt.
His disdain was so complete that (as the unhappy girl said afterward) he seemed more like a
younger brother than a father. There were no chairs: they were forced to stand. In a small
mirror fastened to the edge of his desk the sneering potentate could note the dial-reading
of the instrument without turning. He watched the reflected needle flicker and come to rest.

"So, Mr. Quimbleton," he said, in a harsh and untuned voice, "You come comparatively sober.
Strange that you should choose to be unintoxicated when you face the greatest ordeal of your life."

The savage irony of this angered Quimbleton.

"One touch of liquor makes the whole world kin," he said. "I assure you I have no desire to
claim kinship with your bitter and intolerant soul."

"Ah?" said the Bishop, with mock politeness. "You relieve me greatly. I had thought you desired
to claim me as father-in-law."

"Oh, Parent!" cried Theodolinda; "How can you be so cruel? Sarcasm is such a low form of humor."

"I am not trying to be humorous," said the Bishop grimly. "You, who were once the apple of
my eye, are now only an apple of discord. You, whom I considered such a promising child, are
now a breach of promise. You have sucked my blood. You are a Vampire."

"The Vampire on whom the sun never sets," whispered Quimbleton to the terrified girl, encouraging
her as she shrank against him.

"This is no time for jest," said the Bishop angrily. "You said you had a matter of vital import
to lay before me. Make haste. And remember that you are here only on sufferance. I shall be
pitiless. I shall scourge the evil principle you represent from the face of the earth."

"We do not fear your threats," said Quimbleton stoutly. "We are not alarmed by your frown."

He was, greatly, but he was sparring for time to put his thoughts in order. He started to say
"Uneasy lies the head that wears a frown," which was an aphorism of his own he thought highly
of, but Theodolinda checked him. She knew that her father detested puns. It was perhaps his
only virtue.

"Bishop Chuff," said Quimbleton, "perhaps you are not aware of the strength and tenacity of
the sentiment we represent. I assure you that if you underestimate the power of the millions
of thirsty mouths that speak through us, you will rue the consequences. Trouble is brewing--"

"Neither trouble, nor anything else, is brewing nowadays," said the terrible Bishop.

Theodolinda saw that Quimbleton was losing ground by his incorrigible habit of talking before
he said anything. She broke in impetuously, and explained the plan for the Perpetual Souse.
Her father listened to the end with his cold, forbidding gaze, while the sensitive needle of
the recording instrument on the mantel danced and wagged in agitation.

"So this is your scheme, is it?" he said. "Abandoned offspring, you deserve the gallows."

"Wait a moment," said Quimbleton. "Now comes the other side of the argument. If you grant us
this concession we in turn will put you in possession of a magnificent idea. You think that
you have prohibited everything. Your vetoes cumber the earth. But there is still one thing
you have forgotten to prohibit."

"What is it?" said the Bishop coldly. His hard face was unmoved, but his eyes brightened a trifle.

"There is one thing you have forgotten to prohibit," said Quimbleton solemnly. "I can hardly
conceive how it escaped you. The one thing that harasses human beings over the whole civilized
world. The one thing which, if you were to abolish it, would make your name, foul as that now
is, blessed in the ears of men. Oh, the joy of still having something to prohibit! The unmixed
bliss and high privilege of the vetoing function! I envy you, from my heart, in still having
something to forbid."

The Bishop stirred uneasily in his chair. "What is it?" he said.

Quimbleton watched him with a steady and slightly annoying smile.

"I like to dwell in imagination upon your surprise when you realize what you have overlooked.
It seems so simple! To abolish, prohibit, banish, and remove, at one swoop, the chief preoccupation
of mankind! The simple and high-minded felicity of still having something prohibitable subject
to your omnipotent legislation! But there, I dare say I am wrong. Probably you are weary of
prohibiting things."

Quimbleton made a motion to his companions as though to leave the room. The Bishop leaped to
his feet, with curiously mingled anger and eagerness on his face. "Stop!" he cried. "You can't
mean laughter? I abolished that some weeks ago. I don't believe there is anything left--"

"How quaint it is," said Quimbleton (as though talking to himself), "that it is always the
plainly obvious that eludes! But, of course, the reason you have not abolished this matter
before is that to do so would wholly alter and undermine the habits of the race. Nothing would
be the same as before. I daresay a good deal of misery would be caused in the long run, who
knows? Ah well, it seems a pity you forgot it--"

"Hell's bells!" roared the Bishop, bringing his fist down on the desk with fury--"What is it?
Let me get at it!"

"I should be sorry to marry into a profane family," was Quimbleton's reply, moving toward the door.

The Bishop chewed the end of his beard with a crunching sound. This unpleasant gesture caused
a tingle to pass along Bleak's sensitive spine, already strained to painful nervous tension.
The office of the Perpetual Souse hung in the balance.

"Look here," said Bishop Chuff, "If I let you have your way about the--the Permanent Exhibit,
will you tell me what it is I have forgotten to prohibit?"

"With pleasure," said Quimbleton. "Will you put it down in black and white, please?"

He secured the Bishop's signature to a document giving instructions for the necessary legislation
to be passed. Folding the precious paper in his pocket, Quimbleton faced the black-browed Bishop.
He held Theodolinda by the hand.

"I am sorry," he said, "that I should have forgotten to bring a ring with me. If I had done
so, you might have married us here and now. At least you will not refuse us your blessing?"

"Blessings have been abolished," said Chuff in a voice of exasperation. "Now inform me what
it is that I have forgotten to condemn."

"Work!" cried Quimbleton, and the three ran hastily from the room.

CHAPTER IX

THE ELECTION

In the days following Quimbleton's coup Chuff was in seclusion. It was rumored that he was
ill; it was rumored that the sounds of breaking furniture had been heard by the neighbors on
Caraway Street. But at any rate the Bishop lived up to his word. Orders over his signature
went to Congress, and vast sums of money were appropriated immediately for

The establishment and maintenance of a national park with suitable buildings and appurtenances
wherein might be maintained an elected individual in a state of freedom, with access to alcoholic
beverages, in order that successive generations might view for themselves the devastating effects
of alcohol upon the human system.

No political campaign was ever contested with more zeal and zest than that which led up to
the election of the Perpetual Souse. Life had grown rather dreary under the innumerable prohibitions
of the Chuff regime, and the citizens welcomed the excitement of the campaign as a notable
diversion. Quimbleton appointed himself chairman of the committee to nominate Bleak, and the
editor (acting under his friend's instructions) had hardly begun to deny vigorously that he
had any intention of being a candidate before he found himself plunged into a bewildering vortex
of meetings, speeches, and confessions of faith. Marching clubs, properly outfitted with two-quart
silk tiles and frock coats, were spatting their way plumply down the Boulevard. Torchlight
processions tinted the night; ward picnics strewed the shells of hard-boiled eggs on the lawns
of suburban amusement parks, while Bleak, very ill at ease, was kissing adhesive babies and
autographing tissue napkins and smiling horribly as he whirled about with the grandmothers
in the agony of the carrousel. More than once, reeling with the endless circuit of a painted
merry-go-round charger, the perplexed candidate became so confused that he kissed the paper
napkin and autographed the baby.

He found Quimbleton a stern ringleader. Virgil was not satisfied with the old-fashioned method
of stumping the country from the taff-rail of a Pullman car, and insisted on strapping Bleak
into the cockpit of a biplane and flying him from city to city. They would land in some central
square, and the candidate, deafened and half-frozen, would stammer a few halting remarks. He
felt it rather keenly that Quimbleton looked down on his lack of oratorical gift, and it was
a frequent humiliation that when words did not prosper on his tongue his impatient pilot would
turn on the motors and zoom off into space in the very middle of a sentence.

Nevertheless, the campaign went famously. Bleak had one considerable advantage in being comparatively
unknown. He had never permitted himself the luxury of making enemies: except for a few ex-reporters
who had once worked on the Balloon he had not a foe in the world. Quimbleton had been eager
to import a covey of gunmen from other cities, but when these arrived there was really nothing
for them to do. They were glad to accept jobs from Bishop Chuff, and were well paid for waylaying
and sniping the few grapes and apples that had escaped previous pogroms.

There was only one plank in Bleak's modest platform, but he walked it so happily that it began
to look like a gangplank leading onto the Ship of State. He expressed his doctrine very agreeably
in his speech accepting the party nomination; though credit should be given to Theodolinda,
who had assisted him by a little private seance before he addressed the convention.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said (looking as he spoke at one of the handbills announcing his
candidacy for the dignity of mouthpiece of the nation)--"I issue dodgers, but I never dodge
the issue. I can Take It or Let It Alone, but frankly, I prefer to Take It. I hope I speak
modestly: yet candor insists that both by past training and present inclination I feel myself
fitted to deal with the problems of this exalted office. If elected to this high place of trust
I shall regard myself solely as the servant of the public, solely as the representative of
your sovereign will. As I raise the glass or peel the lemon, I shall not act in any individual
capacity. My own good cheer (I beg you to believe) will be my last thought. I shall remember,
in every gesture and every gulp, that my thirst is in reality the Thirst of a Nation, delegated
to me by ballot; that my laughter and song (if things should go so far) are truly the mirth
and music of a proud people expressing themselves through me. I shall be at all times accessible
to my fellow-men, solicitous to hear their counsel and command. Believing (as I do) in moderation,
yet I should not dream of permitting private sentiment to interfere with public interest when
more violent measures should seem desirable.

"I like to think, my fellow-citizens, that you have conferred this nomination upon me not wholly
at random. I like to think that I am only expressing your thought when I say that many drinkers
have been the worst enemies of the cause we all hold dear. The alcoholshevik and the I.W.W.--the
I Wallow in Wine faction--have done much to discredit the old bland Jeffersonian toper who
carried tippling to the level of a fine art. I have no patience with the doctrine of complete
immersion. Ever since I was first admitted to the bar I have deplored the conduct of those
violent and vulgar revelers who have brought discredit upon the loveliest, most delicate art
known to man. Now, at last, by supreme wisdom, drinking is to be elevated to the dignity of
a career. I like to think that I express your sentiment when I say that drinking is too precious,
too subtle, too fragile a function to be entrusted to the common crowd. Therefore I heartily
applaud your admirable intention of entrusting it entirely to me, and look forward with profound
satisfaction to the privilege of enshrining and perpetuating in my own person the genial traditions
that have clustered round the institution of Liquor. If elected, I shall endeavor to carry
on the fine old rituals and pass them down unimpaired to the next incumbent. I shall endeavor
to make duty a pleasure, and pleasure a duty. I shall remind myself that I am only performing
the service to humanity that each one of you would willingly render if you were in my place.

"My fellow-citizens, I thank you for your amiable confidence, and am happy to accept the nomination."

There were some who criticized this speech on the ground that it was too academic. It was remembered
that Mr. Bleak had at one time been a school-teacher, and his opponents were quick to raise
the cry "What can a schoolmaster know about liquor?" It was said that Mr. Bleak was too scholarly,
too aloof, too cold-blooded: that his interest in booze was merely philosophical, that he would
be incompetent to deal with the practical problems of actual drinking: that he would surround
himself with drinks that would be mere puppets, subservient entirely to his own purposes. The
adherents of Jerry Purplevein, the nominee of the other party, made haste to assert that Bleak
was not a drinker at all but was a tool of the Chuff machine. Jerry was a former bartender
who had been pining away in the ice-cream cone business. Huge banners appeared across the streets,
showing highly colored pictures of Mr. Purplevein plying his original profession, with the legend:

    RALLY ROUND THE FLAGON

    VOTE FOR

    PURPLEVEIN

    THE PRACTICAL MAN

One of the exciting features of the campaign was the sudden appearance of a Woman's Party,
which launched an ably-conducted boom for a Woman Souse and nominated Miss Cynthia Absinthe
as its candidate. The idea of having a woman elected to this responsible office was disconcerting
to many citizens, but Miss Absinthe's record (as outlined by her publicity headquarters) compelled
respect. She was reputed to have been a passionate and tumultuous consumer of sloe gin, and
thousands of women in white bartenders' coats marched with banners announcing:

    ABSINTHE MAKES THE HEART GROW FONDER VOTE FOR CYNTHIA

and

    OUR SLOGAN IS SLOE GIN

For a while there was quite a probability that the male vote would be so split by Bleak and
Purplevein that Miss Absinthe would come in ahead. But at the height of the campaign she was
found in a pharmacy drinking a maple nut foam. After this her cause declined rapidly, and even
her most ardent partisans admitted that she would never be more than an Intermittent Souse.

Purplevein's followers, in their desperate efforts to discredit Bleak, overplayed their hand
(as "practical politicians" always do). The sagacious Quimbleton outmaneuvered them at every
turn. Moderate drinkers rallied round Bleak. Moreover, the Bleak party had an irresistible
assistant in the person of Miss Chuff, who put her trances unreservedly at Dunraven's disposal.
In this way Quimbleton was able to produce his candidate before a monster mass meeting at the
Opera House in a state of becoming exhilaration. This forever put an end to the rumor that
Bleak was not a practical man. Miss Chuff also campaigned strenuously among the women, where
Purplevein (being a bachelor) was at a disadvantage. "Vote for Bleak," cried Miss Chuff--"He
has a wife to help him." Purplevein's argument that the office of Perpetual Souse should be
an entirely stag affair fell dead before Theodolinda's glowing description of the Hostess House
which Mrs. Bleak would conduct next door to the little temple which was to be erected by the
government for the successful candidate.

Despite the exhaustion of the campaign, Bleak stood it well. Quimbleton, knowing the disastrous
effects of over-confidence, kept his man at fighting edge by a little judicious pessimism now
and then, and rumors of the popularity of Purplevein among the hard drinkers. Day after day
Quimbleton and Miss Chuff, after a little psychic communing, would prop the editor among cushions
in the big gray limousine and spin him about the city and suburbs to bow, smile, say a few
automatic words and pass on. Over the car floated a big banner with the words: Let Bleak Do
Your Drinking For You: He Knows How. The unhappy Purplevein, who had to do his electioneering
in a state of chill sobriety, was aghast to see the beaming and gently flushed face of his
rival radiating cheer. At the eleventh hour he tried to change his tactics and plastered the
billboards with immense posters:

    BLEAK DOESN'T NEED THE JOB--HE'S SOUSED ALREADY

This line of argument might perhaps have been powerful if adopted earlier, but by that time
the agreeable vision of Bleak's ascetic features wreathed in a faintly spiritual benignance
was already firmly fixed in the public imagination. The little celluloid button showing his
transfigured and endearing smile was worn on millions of lapels. As one walked down the street
one met that little badge hundreds of times, and the mere repetition of the tenderly exhilarated
face seemed to many a citizen a beautiful and significant thing. Men are altruistic at heart.
They saw that Bleak would make of this high office a richly eloquent and appealing stewardship.
They were reconciled to their own abstinence in the thought that the dreams and desires of
their own hearts would be so nobly fulfilled by him. Alcohol was gone forever, and perhaps
it was as well. They themselves were conscious of having abused its sacred powers. But now,
in the person of this chosen representative, all that was lovely and laughable in the old customs
would be consecrated and enshrined forever. Men who had known Bleak in the days of his employment
on the Balloon recollected that even during the cares and efforts of his profession little
incidents had occurred that might have shown (had they been shrewd enough to notice) how faithfully
he was preparing himself for the great responsibility destiny held concealed.

The day of the election was declared a national festival. The Chuff government, a good deal
startled by the universal seriousness and enthusiasm shown in the enrollment at the primaries,
was disposed (in secret) to regard the office of Perpetual Souse as a helpful compromise on
a vexed question. The war against Nature had been only partially successful: indeed the chuff
chief-of-staff declared that Nature had not learned her lesson yet, and that some irreconcilable
berries and fruits were still waging a guerilla fermentation, thus rupturing the armistice
terms. The countryside had been ravaged, all the Chautauqua lecturers were hoarse, industry
was at a standstill, misery and despair were widespread. Even the indomitable Chuff himself
was a little nonplussed. Better (he thought) one man indubitably, decorously, publicly, and
legally drunk, than millions of citizens privily attempting to cajole raisins and apples into
illicit sprightliness.

The citizens went to the polls in a mood of exalted self-denial. They knew that they were voting
away their own rights, but they also knew that their private ideals would be more than realized
in the legalized frenzy of their representative. Bleak, appearing on the balcony of his hotel,
smiled affectionately on the loyal faces that cheered him from below. He was deeply moved.
To Quimbleton (who was supporting him from behind) he said: "Their generosity is wonderful.
I shall try to be worthy of their confidence. I hope I may have strength to put into practice
the frustrated desires of these noble people."

The result of the polling was to be announced by a searchlight from the City Hall. A white
beam sweeping eastward would mean the election of Purplevein. A white beam sweeping westward
would mean the triumph of Miss Absinthe. A steady red beam cast upward toward the zenith would
indicate the victory of Bleak.

At ten o'clock that night a scream of cheers burst from millions of people packed along the
city streets. A clear, glowing shaft of red light leaped upward into the sky. Dunraven Bleak
had been elected Perpetual Souse.

Purplevein, who was rather a decent sort, hastened to Bleak's hotel to offer his congratulations.
Bleak, who was sitting quietly with Mrs. Bleak, Quimbleton and Theodolinda, greeted him calmly.
Poor Purplevein was very much broken up, and Quimbleton and Theodolinda, in the goodness of
their hearts, arranged a quiet little seance for his benefit. They all sat their drinking psychic
Three-Star in honor of the event. As Quimbleton said, helping Purplevein back to his motor--"Hitch
your flagon to a Star."

CHAPTER X

E PLURIBUS UNUM!

Virgil and Theodolinda were returning from their honeymoon, which they had spent touring in
Quimbleton's Spad plane. They had been in South America most of the time, where they found
charming hosts eager to console them for the tragical developments in the northern continent.

It was a superb morning in early autumn when they were flying homeward. Beneath them lay the
green and level meadows of New Jersey, and the dusky violet blue of the ocean shading to a
translucent olive where long ridges of foam crumbled upon pale beaches. They turned inland,
flying leisurely to admire the beauty of the scene. The mounting sun spread a golden shimmer
over woods and corn-stubble. White roads ran like ribbons across the landscape. Quimbleton
glided gently downward, intending to skim low over the treetops so that his bride might enjoy
the rich loveliness of the view.

Suddenly the great plane dipped sharply, tilted, and very nearly fell into a side-slip. Quimbleton
was just able to pull her up again and climbed steeply to a safer altitude. He looked at his
dashboard dials and indicators with a puzzled face. "Very queer," he said to Theodolinda through
the speaking tube, "the air here has very little carrying power. It seems extraordinarily thin.
You might think we were flying in a partial vacuum."

