14. It seemed to me, in these beginnings of which I am speaking, that there could be no danger
capable of withdrawing me from so great a blessing, if I had but books, and could have remained
alone; and I believe that, by the grace of God, it would have been so, if I had had a master
or any one to warn me against those occasions of sin in the beginning, and, if I fell, to bring
me quickly out of them.  If the devil had assailed me openly then, I believe I should never
have fallen into any grievous sin; but he was so subtle, and I so weak, that all my good resolutions
were of little service--though, in those days in which I served God, they were very profitable
in enabling me, with that patience which His Majesty gave me, to endure the alarming illnesses
which I had to bear.  I have often thought with wonder of the great goodness of God; and my
soul has rejoiced in the contemplation of His great magnificence and mercy.  May He be blessed
for ever!--for I see clearly that He has not omitted to reward me, even in this life, for every
one of my good desires.  My good works, however wretched and imperfect, have been made better
and perfected by Him Who is my Lord: He has rendered them meritorious.  As to my evil deeds
and my sins, He hid them at once.  The eyes of those who saw them, He made even blind; and
He has blotted them out of their memory.  He gilds my faults, makes virtue to shine forth,
giving it to me Himself, and compelling me to possess it, as it were, by force.

15. I must now return to that which has been enjoined me.  I say, that if I had to describe
minutely how our Lord dealt with me in the beginning, it would be necessary for me to have
another understanding than that I have: so that I might be able to appreciate what I owe to
Him, together with my own ingratitude and wickedness; for I have forgotten it all.

May He be blessed for ever Who has borne with me so long!  Amen.

1. Antonio de Ahumada; who, according to the most probable opinion, entered the Dominican monastery
of St. Thomas, Avila. It is said that he died before he was professed.  Some said he joined
the Hieronymites; but this is not so probable (De la Fuente). Ribera, however, says that he
did enter the novitiate of the Hieronymites. but died before he was out of it (lib. i. ch. vi.).

2. Juana Suarez, in the Monastery of the Incarnation, Avila.

3. See Relation, vi. section 3.

4. The nuns sent word to the father of his child's escape, and of her desire to become a nun,
but without any expectation of obtaining his consent.  He came to the monastery forthwith,
and "offered up his Isaac on Mount Carmel" (Reforma, lib. i. ch. viii. section 5).

5. The Saint entered the Monastery of the Incarnation Nov. 2, 1533, and made her profession
Nov. 3, 1534 (Bollandists and Bouix).  Ribera says she entered November 2, 1535; and the chronicler
of the Order, relying on the contract by which her father bound himself to the monastery, says
that she took the habit Nov. 2, 1536, and that Ribera had made a mistake.

6. Her father took her from the monastery in the autumn of 1535, according to the Bollandists,
but of 1538, according to the chronicler, who adds, that she was taken to her uncle's house--Pedro
Sanchez de Cepeda--in Hortigosa, and then to Castellanos de la Canada, to the house of her
sister, Dona Maria, where she remained till the spring, when she went to Bezadas for her cure
(Reforma, lib. i. ch. xi. section 2).

7. It was in 1563 that all nuns were compelled to observe enclosure (De la Fuente).

8. Ch. v. section 15.

9. Ch. iii. section 4.

10. Ch. iii. section 5.

11. By Fray Francisco de Osuna, of the Order of St. Francis (Reforma, lib. i. ch. xi. section 2).

12. See ch. ix. sections 4, 7.

1. I forgot to say how, in the year of my novitiate, I suffered much uneasiness about things
in themselves of no importance; but I was found fault with very often when I was blameless.
I bore it painfully and with imperfection; however, I went through it all, because of the joy
I had in being a nun.  When they saw me seeking to be alone, and even weeping over my sins
at times, they thought I was discontented, and said so.

2. All religious observances had an attraction for me, but I could not endure any which seemed
to make me contemptible. I delighted in being thought well of by others, and was very exact
in everything I had to do.  All this I thought was a virtue, though it will not serve as any
excuse for me, because I knew what it was to procure my own satisfaction in everything, and
so ignorance does not blot out the blame.  There may be some excuse in the fact that the monastery
was not founded in great perfection.  I, wicked as I was, followed after that which I saw was
wrong, and neglected that which was good.

3. There was then in the house a nun labouring under a most grievous and painful disorder,
for there were open ulcers in her body, caused by certain obstructions, through which her food
was rejected.  Of this sickness she soon died.  All the sisters, I saw, were afraid of her
malady.  I envied her patience very much; I prayed to God that He would give me a like patience;
and then, whatever sickness it might be His pleasure to send, I do not think I was afraid of
any, for I was resolved on gaining eternal good, and determined to gain it by any and by every
means.

4. I am surprised at myself, because then I had not, as I believe, that love of God which I
think I had after I began to pray.  Then, I had only light to see that all things that pass
away are to be lightly esteemed, and that the good things to be gained by despising them are
of great price, because they are for ever.  His Majesty heard me also in this, for in less
than two years I was so afflicted myself that the illness which I had, though of a different
kind from that of the sister, was, I really believe, not less painful and trying for the three
years it lasted, as I shall now relate.

5. When the time had come for which I was waiting in the place I spoke of before [1]--I was
in my sister's house, for the purpose of undergoing the medical treatment--they took me away
with the utmost care of my comfort; that is, my father, my sister, and the nun, my friend,
who had come from the monastery with me,--for her love for me was very great.  At that moment,
Satan began to trouble my soul; God, however, brought forth a great blessing out of that trouble.

6. In the place to which I had gone for my cure lived a priest of good birth and understanding,
with some learning, but not much. I went to confession to him, for I was always fond of learned
men, although confessors indifferently learned did my soul much harm; for I did not always
find confessors whose learning was as good as I could wish it was.  I know by experience that
it is better, if the confessors are good men and of holy lives, that they should have no learning
at all, than a little; for such confessors never trust themselves without consulting those
who are learned--nor would I trust them myself: and a really learned confessor never deceived
me. [2]  Neither did the others willingly deceive me, only they knew no better; I thought they
were learned, and that I was not under any other obligation than that of believing them, as
their instructions to me were lax, and left me more at liberty--for if they had been strict
with me, I am so wicked, I should have sought for others. That which was a venial sin, they
told me was no sin at all; of that which was most grievously mortal, they said it was venial. [3]

7. This did me so much harm, that it is no wonder I should speak of it here as a warning to
others, that they may avoid an evil so great; for I see clearly that in the eyes of God I was
without excuse, that the things I did being in themselves not good, this should have been enough
to keep me from them.  I believe that God, by reason of my sins, allowed those confessors to
deceive themselves and to deceive me.  I myself deceived many others by saying to them what
had been said to me.

8. I continued in this blindness, I believe, more than seventeen years, till a most learned
Dominican Father [4] undeceived me in part, and those of the Company of Jesus made me altogether
so afraid, by insisting on the erroneousness of these principles, as I shall hereafter show. [5]

9. I began, then, by going to confession to that priest of whom I spoke before. [6]  He took
an extreme liking to me, because I had then but little to confess in comparison with what I
had afterwards; and I had never much to say since I became a nun. There was no harm in the
liking he had for me, but it ceased to be good, because it was in excess.  He clearly understood
that I was determined on no account whatever to do anything whereby God might be seriously
offended.  He, too, gave me a like assurance about himself, and accordingly our conferences
were many.  But at that time, through the knowledge and fear of God which filled my soul, what
gave me most pleasure in all my conversations with others was to speak of God; and, as I was
so young, this made him ashamed; and then, out of that great goodwill he bore me, he began
to tell me of his wretched state.  It was very sad, for he had been nearly seven years in a
most perilous condition, because of his affection for, and conversation with, a woman of that
place; and yet he used to say Mass.  The matter was so public, that his honour and good name
were lost, and no one ventured to speak to him about it.  I was extremely sorry for him, because
I liked him much.  I was then so imprudent and so blind as to think it a virtue to be grateful
and loyal to one who liked me. Cursed be that loyalty which reaches so far as to go against
the law of God.  It is a madness common in the world, and it makes me mad to see it.  We are
indebted to God for all the good that men do to us, and yet we hold it to be an act of virtue
not to break a friendship of this kind, though it lead us to go against Him. Oh, blindness
of the world!  Let me, O Lord, be most ungrateful to the world; never at all unto Thee.  But
I have been altogether otherwise through my sins.

10. I procured further information about the matter from members of his household; I learned
more of his ruinous state, and saw that the poor man's fault was not so grave, because the
miserable woman had had recourse to enchantments, by giving him a little image made of copper,
which she had begged him to wear for love of her around his neck; and this no one had influence
enough to persuade him to throw away.  As to this matter of enchantments, I do not believe
it to be altogether true; but I will relate what I saw, by way of warning to men to be on their
guard against women who will do things of this kind.  And let them be assured of this, that
women--for they are more bound to purity than men--if once they have lost all shame before
God, are in nothing whatever to be trusted; and that in exchange for the gratification of their
will, and of that affection which the devil suggests, they will hesitate at nothing.

11. Though I have been so wicked myself, I never fell into anything of this kind, nor did I
ever attempt to do evil; nor, if I had the power, would I have ever constrained any one to
like me, for our Lord kept me from this.  But if He had abandoned me, I should have done wrong
in this, as I did in other things--for there is nothing in me whereon anyone may rely.

12. When I knew this, I began to show him greater affection: my intention was good, but the
act was wrong, for I ought not to do the least wrong for the sake of any good, how great soever
it may be.  I spoke to him most frequently of God; and this must have done him good--though
I believe that what touched him most was his great affection for me, because, to do me a pleasure,
he gave me that little image of copper, and I had it at once thrown into a river.  When he
had given it up, like a man roused from deep sleep, he began to consider all that he had done
in those years; and then, amazed at himself, lamenting his ruinous state, that woman came to
be hateful in his eyes.  Our Lady must have helped him greatly, for he had a very great devotion
to her Conception, and used to keep the feast thereof with great solemnity. In short, he broke
off all relations with that woman utterly, and was never weary of giving God thanks for the
light He had given him; and at the end of the year from the day I first saw him, he died.

13. He had been most diligent in the service of God; and as for that great affection he had
for me, I never observed anything wrong in it, though it might have been of greater purity.
There were also occasions wherein he might have most grievously offended, if he had not kept
himself in the near presence of God. As I said before, [7] I would not then have done anything
I knew was a mortal sin.  And I think that observing this resolution in me helped him to have
that affection for me; for I believe that all men must have a greater affection for those women
whom they see disposed to be good; and even for the attainment of earthly ends, women must
have more power over men because they are good, as I shall show hereafter.  I am convinced
that the priest is in the way of salvation.  He died most piously, and completely withdrawn
from that occasion of sin.  It seems that it was the will of our Lord he should be saved by
these means.

14. I remained three months in that place, in the most grievous sufferings; for the treatment
was too severe for my constitution. In two months--so strong were the medicines--my life was
nearly worn out; and the severity of the pain in the heart, [8] for the cure of which I was
there was much more keen: it seemed to me, now and then, as if it had been seized by sharp
teeth.  So great was the torment, that it was feared it might end in madness. There was a great
loss of strength, for I could eat nothing whatever, only drink.  I had a great loathing for
food, and a fever that never left me.  I was so reduced, for they had given me purgatives daily
for nearly a month, and so parched up, that my sinews began to shrink.  The pains I had were
unendurable, and I was overwhelmed in a most deep sadness, so that I had no rest either night
or day.

15. This was the result; and thereupon my father took me back. Then the physicians visited
me again.  All gave me up; they said I was also consumptive.  This gave me little or no concern;
what distressed me were the pains I had--for I was in pain from my head down to my feet.  Now,
nervous pains, according to the physicians, are intolerable; and all my nerves were shrunk.
Certainly, if I had not brought this upon myself by my sins, the torture would have been unendurable.

16. I was not more than three months in this cruel distress, for it seemed impossible that
so many ills could be borne together. I now am astonished at myself, and the patience His Majesty
gave me--for it clearly came from Him--I look upon as a great mercy of our Lord.  It was a
great help to me to be patient, that I had read the story of Job, in the Morals of St. Gregory
(our Lord seems to have prepared me thereby); and that I had begun the practice of prayer,
so that I might bear it all, conforming my will to the will of God.  All my conversation was
with God. I had continually these words of Job in my thoughts and in my mouth: "If we have
received good things of the hand of our Lord, why should we not receive evil things?" [9] 
This seemed to give me courage.

17. The feast of our Lady, in August, came round; from April until then I had been in great
pain, but more especially during the last three months.  I made haste to go to confession,
for I had always been very fond of frequent confession.  They thought I was driven by the fear
of death; and so my father, in order to quiet me, would not suffer me to go.  Oh, the unreasonable
love of flesh and blood!  Though it was that of a father so Catholic and so wise--he was very
much so, and this act of his could not be the effect of any ignorance on his part--what evil
it might have done me!

18. That very night my sickness became so acute, that for about four days I remained insensible.
They administered the Sacrament of the last Anointing, and every hour, or rather every moment,
thought I was dying; they did nothing but repeat the Credo, as if I could have understood anything
they said.  They must have regarded me as dead more than once, for I found afterwards drops
of wax on my eyelids.  My father, because he had not allowed me to go to confession, was grievously
distressed.  Loud cries and many prayers were made to God: blessed be He Who heard them.

19. For a day-and-a-half the grave was open in my monastery, waiting for my body; [10] and
the Friars of our Order, in a house at some distance from this place, performed funeral solemnities.
But it pleased our Lord I should come to myself.  I wished to go to confession at once.  I
communicated with many tears; but I do not think those tears had their source in that pain
and sorrow only for having offended God, which might have sufficed for my salvation--unless,
indeed, the delusion which I laboured under were some excuse for me, and into which I had been
led by those who had told me that some things were not mortal sins which afterwards I found
were so certainly.

20. Though my sufferings were unendurable, and my perceptions dull, yet my confession, I believe,
was complete as to all matters wherein I understood myself to have offended God. This grace,
among others, did His Majesty bestow on me, that ever since my first Communion never in confession
have I failed to confess anything I thought to be a sin, though it might be only a venial sin.
But I think that undoubtedly my salvation was in great peril, if I had died at that time--partly
because my confessors were so unlearned, and partly because I was so very wicked.  It is certainly
true that when I think of it, and consider how our Lord seems to have raised me up from the
dead, I am so filled with wonder, that I almost tremble with fear. [11]

21. And now, O my soul, it were well for thee to look that danger in the face from which our
Lord delivered thee; and if thou dost not cease to offend Him out of love thou shouldst do
so out of fear.  He might have slain thee a thousand times, and in a far more perilous state.
I believe I exaggerate nothing if I say a thousand times again, though he may rebuke me who
has commanded me to restrain myself in recounting my sins; and they are glossed over enough.
I pray him, for the love of God, not to suppress one of my faults, because herein shines forth
the magnificence of God, as well as His long-suffering towards souls.  May He be blessed for
evermore, and destroy me utterly, rather than let me cease to love Him any more!

1. Ch. iv. section 6.  The person to whom she was taken was a woman famous for certain cures
she had wrought, but whose skill proved worse than useless to the Saint (Reforma, lib. i. ch.
xi. section 2).

2. Schram, Theolog. Mystic., section 483.  "Magni doctores scholastici, si non sint spirituales,
vel omni rerum spiritualium experientia careant, non solent esse magistri spirituales idonei--nam
theologia scholastica est perfectio intellectus; mystica, perfectio intellectus et voluntatis:
unde bonus theologus scholasticus potest esse malus theologus mysticus. In rebus tamen difficilibus,
dubiis, spiritualibus, praestat mediocriter spiritualem theologum consulere quam spiritualem
idiotam."

3. See Way of Perfection, ch. viii. section 2; but ch. v. Dalton's edition.

4. F. Vicente Barron (Bouix).

5. See ch. xxiii.

6. section 6.

7. section 9.

8. Ch. iv. section 6.

9. Job ii. 10: "Si bona suscepimus de manu Dei, mala quare non suscipiamus?"

10. Some of the nuns of the Incarnation were in the house, sent thither from the monastery;
and, but for the father's disbelief in her death, would have taken her home for burial (Ribera,
lib. i. ch. iv.).

11. Ribera, lib. i. ch. iv., says he heard Fra Banes, in a sermon, say that the Saint told
him she had, during these four days, seen hell in a vision.  And the chronicler says that though
there was bodily illness, yet it was a trance of the soul at the same time (vol. i. lib. i.
ch. xii. section 3).

1. After those four days, during which I was insensible, so great was my distress, that our
Lord alone knoweth the intolerable sufferings I endured.  My tongue was bitten to pieces; there
was a choking in my throat because I had taken nothing, and because of my weakness, so that
I could not swallow even a drop of water; all my bones seemed to be out of joint, and the disorder
of my head was extreme.  I was bent together like a coil of ropes--for to this was I brought
by the torture of those days--unable to move either arm, or foot, or hand, or head, any more
than if I had been dead, unless others moved me; I could move, however, I think, one finger
of my right hand.  Then, as to touching me, that was impossible, for I was so bruised that
I could not endure it.  They used to move me in a sheet, one holding one end, and another the
other.  This lasted till Palm Sunday. [1]

2. The only comfort I had was this--if no one came near me, my pains frequently ceased; and
then, because I had a little rest, I considered myself well, for I was afraid my patience would
fail: and thus I was exceedingly happy when I saw myself free from those pains which were so
sharp and constant, though in the cold fits of an intermittent fever, which were most violent,
they were still unendurable.  My dislike of food was very great.

3. I was now so anxious to return to my monastery, that I had myself conveyed thither in the
state I was in.  There they received alive one whom they had waited for as dead; but her body
was worse than dead: the sight of it could only give pain.  It is impossible to describe my
extreme weakness, for I was nothing but bones.  I remained in this state, as I have already
said, [2] more than eight months; and was paralytic, though getting better, for about three
years.  I praised God when I began to crawl on my hands and knees.  I bore all this with great
resignation, and, if I except the beginning of my illness, with great joy; for all this was
as nothing in comparison with the pains and tortures I had to bear at first.  I was resigned
to the will of God, even if He left me in this state for ever.  My anxiety about the recovery
of my health seemed to be grounded on my desire to pray in solitude, as I had been taught;
for there were no means of doing so in the infirmary.  I went to confession most frequently,
spoke much about God, and in such a way as to edify everyone; and they all marvelled at the
patience which our Lord gave me--for if it had not come from the hand of His Majesty, it seemed
impossible to endure so great an affliction with so great a joy.

4. It was a great thing for me to have had the grace of prayer which God had wrought in me;
it made me understand what it is to love Him.  In a little while, I saw these virtues renewed
within me; still they were not strong, for they were not sufficient to sustain me in justice.
I never spoke ill in the slightest degree whatever of any one, and my ordinary practice was
to avoid all detraction; for I used to keep most carefully in mind that I ought not to assent
to, nor say of another, anything I should not like to have said of myself.  I was extremely
careful to keep this resolution on all occasions though not so perfectly, upon some great occasions
that presented themselves, as not to break it sometimes.  But my ordinary practice was this:
and thus those who were about me, and those with whom I conversed, became so convinced that
it was right, that they adopted it as a habit. It came to be understood that where I was, absent
persons were safe; so they were also with my friends and kindred, and with those whom I instructed.
Still, for all this, I have a strict account to give unto God for the bad example I gave in
other respects. May it please His Majesty to forgive me, for I have been the cause of much
evil; though not with intentions as perverse as were the acts that followed.

5. The longing for solitude remained, and I loved to discourse and speak of God; for if I found
any one with whom I could do so, it was a greater joy and satisfaction to me than all the refinements--or
rather to speak more correctly, the real rudeness--of the world's conversation.  I communicated
and confessed more frequently still, and desired to do so; I was extremely fond of reading
good books; I was most deeply penitent for having offended God; and I remember that very often
I did not dare to pray, because I was afraid of that most bitter anguish which I felt for having
offended God, dreading it as a great chastisement.  This grew upon me afterwards to so great
a degree, that I know of no torment wherewith to compare it; and yet it was neither more nor
less because of any fear I had at any time, for it came upon me only when I remembered the
consolations of our Lord which He gave me in prayer, the great debt I owed Him, the evil return
I made: I could not bear it.  I was also extremely angry with myself on account of the many
tears I shed for my faults, when I saw how little I improved, seeing that neither my good resolutions,
nor the pains I took, were sufficient to keep me from falling whenever I had the opportunity.
I looked on my tears as a delusion; and my faults, therefore, I regarded as the more grievous,
because I saw the great goodness of our Lord to me in the shedding of those tears, and together
with them such deep compunction.

6. I took care to go to confession as soon as I could; and, as I think, did all that was possible
on my part to return to a state of grace.  But the whole evil lay in my not thoroughly avoiding
the occasions of sin, and in my confessors, who helped me so little.  If they had told me that
I was travelling on a dangerous road, and that I was bound to abstain from those conversations,
I believe, without any doubt, that the matter would have been remedied, because I could not
bear to remain even for one day in mortal sin, if I knew it.

7. All these tokens of the fear of God came to me through prayer; and the greatest of them
was this, that fear was swallowed up of love--for I never thought of chastisement.  All the
time I was so ill, my strict watch over my conscience reached to all that is mortal sin.

8. O my God! I wished for health, that I might serve Thee better; that was the cause of all
my ruin.  For when I saw how helpless I was through paralysis, being still so young, and how
the physicians of this world had dealt with me, I determined to ask those of heaven to heal
me--for I wished, nevertheless, to be well, though I bore my illness with great joy.  Sometimes,
too, I used to think that if I recovered my health, and yet were lost for ever, I was better
as I was.  But, for all that, I thought I might serve God much better if I were well.  This
is our delusion; we do not resign ourselves absolutely to the disposition of our Lord, Who
knows best what is for our good.

9. I began by having Masses and prayers said for my intention--prayers that were highly sanctioned;
for I never liked those other devotions which some people, especially women, make use of with
a ceremoniousness to me intolerable, but which move them to be devout.  I have been given to
understand since that they were unseemly and superstitious; and I took for my patron and lord
the glorious St. Joseph, and recommended myself earnestly to him.  I saw clearly that both
out of this my present trouble, and out of others of greater importance, relating to my honour
and the loss of my soul, this my father and lord delivered me, and rendered me greater services
than I knew how to ask for. I cannot call to mind that I have ever asked him at any time for
anything which he has not granted; and I am filled with amazement when I consider the great
favours which God hath given me through this blessed Saint; the dangers from which he hath
delivered me, both of body and of soul.  To other Saints, our Lord seems to have given grace
to succour men in some special necessity; but to this glorious Saint, I know by experience,
to help us in all: and our Lord would have us understand that as He was Himself subject to
him upon earth--for St. Joseph having the title of father, and being His guardian, could command
Him--so now in heaven He performs all his petitions.  I have asked others to recommend themselves
to St. Joseph, and they too know this by experience; and there are many who are now of late
devout to him, [3] having had experience of this truth.

10. I used to keep his feast with all the solemnity I could, but with more vanity than spirituality,
seeking rather too much splendour and effect, and yet with good intentions.  I had this evil
in me, that if our Lord gave me grace to do any good, that good became full of imperfections
and of many faults; but as for doing wrong, the indulgence of curiosity and vanity, I was very
skilful and active therein.  Our Lord forgive me!

11. Would that I could persuade all men to be devout to this glorious Saint; for I know by
long experience what blessings he can obtain for us from God.  I have never known any one who
was really devout to him, and who honoured him by particular services, who did not visibly
grow more and more in virtue; for he helps in a special way those souls who commend themselves
to him.  It is now some years since I have always on his feast asked him for something, and
I always have it.  If the petition be in any way amiss, he directs it aright for my greater good.

12. If I were a person who had authority to write, it would be a pleasure to me to be diffusive
in speaking most minutely of the graces which this glorious Saint has obtained for me and for
others.  But that I may not go beyond the commandment that is laid upon me, I must in many
things be more brief than I could wish, and more diffusive than is necessary in others; for,
in short, I am a person who, in all that is good, has but little discretion.  But I ask, for
the love of God, that he who does not believe me will make the trial for himself--when he will
see by experience the great good that results from commending oneself to this glorious patriarch,
and being devout to him.  Those who give themselves to prayer should in a special manner have
always a devotion to St. Joseph; for I know not how any man can think of the Queen of the angels,
during the time that she suffered so much with the Infant Jesus, without giving thanks to St.
Joseph for the services he rendered them then.  He who cannot find any one to teach him how
to pray, let him take this glorious Saint for his master, and he will not wander out of the way.

13. May it please our Lord that I have not done amiss in venturing to speak about St. Joseph;
for, though I publicly profess my devotion to him, I have always failed in my service to him
and imitation of him.  He was like himself when he made me able to rise and walk, no longer
a paralytic; and I, too, am like myself when I make so bad a use of this grace.

14. Who could have said that I was so soon to fall, after such great consolations from God--after
His Majesty had implanted virtues in me which of themselves made me serve Him--after I had
been, as it were, dead, and in such extreme peril of eternal damnation--after He had raised
me up, soul and body, so that all who saw me marvelled to see me alive?  What can it mean,
O my Lord?  The life we live is so full of danger!  While I am writing this--and it seems to
me, too, by Thy grace and mercy--I may say with St. Paul, though not so truly as he did: "It
is not I who live now, but Thou, my Creator, livest in me." [4]  For some years past, so it
seems to me, Thou hast held me by the hand; and I see in myself desires and resolutions--in
some measure tested by experience, in many ways, during that time--never to do anything, however
slight it may be, contrary to Thy will, though I must have frequently offended Thy Divine Majesty
without being aware of it; and I also think that nothing can be proposed to me that I should
not with great resolution undertake for Thy love. In some things Thou hast Thyself helped me
to succeed therein. I love neither the world, nor the things of the world; nor do I believe
that anything that does not come from Thee can give me pleasure; everything else seems to me
a heavy cross.

15. Still, I may easily deceive myself, and it may be that I am not what I say I am; but Thou
knowest, O my Lord, that, to the best of my knowledge, I lie not.  I am afraid, and with good
reason, lest Thou shouldst abandon me; for I know now how far my strength and little virtue
can reach, if Thou be not ever at hand to supply them, and to help me never to forsake Thee.
May His Majesty grant that I be not forsaken of Thee even now, when I am thinking all this
of myself!

16. I know not how we can wish to live, seeing that everything is so uncertain.  Once, O Lord,
I thought it impossible to forsake Thee so utterly; and now that I have forsaken Thee so often,
I cannot help being afraid; for when Thou didst withdraw but a little from me, I fell down
to the ground at once.  Blessed for ever be Thou!  Though I have forsaken Thee, Thou hast not
forsaken me so utterly but that Thou hast come again and raised me up, giving me Thy hand always.
Very often, O Lord, I would not take it: very often I would not listen when Thou wert calling
me again, as I am going to show.

1. March 25, 1537.

2. Ch. v. section 17.  The Saint left her monastery in 1535; and in the spring of 1536 went
from her sister's house to Bezadas; and in July of that year was brought back to her father's
house in Avila, wherein she remained till Palm Sunday, 1537, when she returned to the Monastery
of the Incarnation.  She had been seized with paralysis there, and laboured under it nearly
three years, from 1536 to 1539, when she was miraculously healed through the intercession of
St. Joseph (Bolland, n. 100, 101). The dates of the Chronicler are different from these.

3. Of the devotion to St. Joseph, F. Faber (The Blessed Sacrament, bk. ii. p. 199, 3rd ed.)
says that it took its rise in the West, in a confraternity in Avignon.  "Then it spread over
the church. Gerson was raised up to be its doctor and theologian, and St. Teresa to be its
Saint, and St. Francis of Sales to be its popular teacher and missionary.  The houses of Carmel
were like the holy house of Nazareth to it; and the colleges of the Jesuits, its peaceful sojourns
in dark Egypt."

4. Galat. ii. 20: "Vivo autem, jam non ego; vivit vero in me Christus."

1. So, then, going on from pastime to pastime, from vanity to vanity, from one occasion of
sin to another, I began to expose myself exceedingly to the very greatest dangers: my soul
was so distracted by many vanities, that I was ashamed to draw near unto God in an act of such
special friendship as that of prayer. [1] As my sins multiplied, I began to lose the pleasure
and comfort I had in virtuous things: and that loss contributed to the abandonment of prayer.
I see now most clearly, O my Lord, that this comfort departed from me because I had departed
from Thee.

2. It was the most fearful delusion into which Satan could plunge me--to give up prayer under
the pretence of humility.  I began to be afraid of giving myself to prayer, because I saw myself
so lost.  I thought it would be better for me, seeing that in my wickedness I was one of the
most wicked, to live like the multitude--to say the prayers which I was bound to say, and that
vocally: not to practise mental prayer nor commune with God so much; for I deserved to be with
the devils, and was deceiving those who were about me, because I made an outward show of goodness;
and therefore the community in which I dwelt is not to be blamed; for with my cunning I so
managed matters, that all had a good opinion of me; and yet I did not seek this deliberately
by simulating devotion; for in all that relates to hypocrisy and ostentation--glory be to God!--I
do not remember that I ever offended Him, [2] so far as I know.  The very first movements herein
gave me such pain, that the devil would depart from me with loss, and the gain remained with
me; and thus, accordingly, he never tempted me much in this way.  Perhaps, however, if God
had permitted Satan to tempt me as sharply herein as he tempted me in other things, I should
have fallen also into this; but His Majesty has preserved me until now.  May He be blessed
for evermore!  It was rather a heavy affliction to me that I should be thought so well of;
for I knew my own secret.

3. The reason why they thought I was not so wicked was this: they saw that I, who was so young,
and exposed to so many occasions of sin, withdrew myself so often into solitude for prayer,
read much, spoke of God, that I liked to have His image painted in many places, to have an
oratory of my own, and furnish it with objects of devotion, that I spoke ill of no one, and
other things of the same kind in me which have the appearance of virtue.  Yet all the while--I
was so vain--I knew how to procure respect for myself by doing those things which in the world
are usually regarded with respect.

4. In consequence of this, they gave me as much liberty as they did to the oldest nuns, and
even more, and had great confidence in me; for as to taking any liberty for myself, or doing
anything without leave--such as conversing through the door, or in secret, or by night--I do
not think I could have brought myself to speak with anybody in the monastery in that way, and
I never did it; for our Lord held me back.  It seemed to me--for I considered many things carefully
and of set purpose--that it would be a very evil deed on my part, wicked as I was, to risk
the credit of so many nuns, who were all good--as if everything else I did was well done! 
In truth, the evil I did was not the result of deliberation, as this would have been, if I
had done it, although it was too much so.

