"No! I shall never see her again.... I don't understand why people should meet just to be torn
apart. But I know she and I will never meet again. That I know as surely as that the sun will
rise, and that cascade come shining over the rocks after I am dead and done.... Oh! It's all
foolishness and haste and violence and cruel folly, stupidity and blundering hate and selfish
ambition--all the things that men have done--all the things they will ever do. Gott! Smallways,
what a muddle and confusion life has always been--the battles and massacres and disasters,
the hates and harsh acts, the murders and sweatings, the lynchings and cheatings. This morning
I am tired of it all, as though I'd just found it out for the first time. I HAVE found it out.
When a man is tired of life, I suppose it is time for him to die. I've lost heart, and death
is over me. Death is close to me, and I know I have got to end. But think of all the hopes
I had only a little time ago, the sense of fine beginnings!... It was all a sham. There were
no beginnings.... We're just ants in ant-hill cities, in a world that doesn't matter; that
goes on and rambles into nothingness. New York--New York doesn't even strike me as horrible.
New York was nothing but an ant-hill kicked to pieces by a fool!

"Think of it, Smallways: there's war everywhere! They're smashing up their civilisation before
they have made it. The sort of thing the English did at Alexandria, the Japanese at Port Arthur,
the French at Casablanca, is going on everywhere. Everywhere! Down in South America even they
are fighting among themselves! No place is safe--no place is at peace. There is no place where
a woman and her daughter can hide and be at peace. The war comes through the air, bombs drop
in the night. Quiet people go out in the morning, and see air-fleets passing overhead--dripping
death--dripping death!"

CHAPTER VIII. A WORLD AT WAR

1

It was only very slowly that Bert got hold of this idea that the whole world was at war, that
he formed any image at all of the crowded countries south of these Arctic solitudes stricken
with terror and dismay as these new-born aerial navies swept across their skies. He was not
used to thinking of the world as a whole, but as a limitless hinterland of happenings beyond
the range of his immediate vision. War in his imagination was something, a source of news and
emotion, that happened in a restricted area, called the Seat of War. But now the whole atmosphere
was the Seat of War, and every land a cockpit. So closely had the nations raced along the path
of research and invention, so secret and yet so parallel had been their plans and acquisitions,
that it was within a few hours of the launching of the first fleet in Franconia that an Asiatic
Armada beat its west-ward way across, high above the marvelling millions in the plain of the
Ganges. But the preparations of the Confederation of Eastern Asia had been on an altogether
more colossal scale than the German. "With this step," said Tan Ting-siang, "we overtake and
pass the West. We recover the peace of the world that these barbarians have destroyed."

Their secrecy and swiftness and inventions had far surpassed those of the Germans, and where
the Germans had had a hundred men at work the Asiatics had ten thousand. There came to their
great aeronautic parks at Chinsi-fu and Tsingyen by the mono-rails that now laced the whole
surface of China a limitless supply of skilled and able workmen, workmen far above the average
European in industrial efficiency. The news of the German World Surprise simply quickened their
efforts. At the time of the bombardment of New York it is doubtful if the Germans had three
hundred airships all together in the world; the score of Asiatic fleets flying east and west
and south must have numbered several thousand. Moreover the Asiatics had a real fighting flying-machine,
the Niais as they were called, a light but quite efficient weapon, infinitely superior to the
German drachenflieger. Like that, it was a one-man machine, but it was built very lightly of
steel and cane and chemical silk, with a transverse engine, and a flapping sidewing. The aeronaut
carried a gun firing explosive bullets loaded with oxygen, and in addition, and true to the
best tradition of Japan, a sword. Mostly they were Japanese, and it is characteristic that
from the first it was contemplated that the aeronaut should be a swordsman. The wings of these
flyers had bat-like hooks forward, by which they were to cling to their antagonist's gas-chambers
while boarding him. These light flying-machines were carried with the fleets, and also sent
overland or by sea to the front with the men. They were capable of flights of from two to five
hundred miles according to the wind.

So, hard upon the uprush of the first German air-fleet, these Asiatic swarms took to the atmosphere.
Instantly every organised Government in the world was frantically and vehemently building airships
and whatever approach to a flying machine its inventors' had discovered. There was no time
for diplomacy. Warnings and ultimatums were telegraphed to and fro, and in a few hours all
the panic-fierce world was openly at war, and at war in the most complicated way. For Britain
and France and Italy had declared war upon Germany and outraged Swiss neutrality; India, at
the sight of Asiatic airships, had broken into a Hindoo insurrection in Bengal and a Mohametan
revolt hostile to this in the North-west Provinces--the latter spreading like wildfire from
Gobi to the Gold Coast--and the Confederation of Eastern Asia had seized the oil wells of Burmha
and was impartially attacking America and Germany. In a week they were building airships in
Damascus and Cairo and Johannesburg; Australia and New Zealand were frantically equipping themselves.
One unique and terrifying aspect of this development was the swiftness with which these monsters
could be produced. To build an ironclad took from two to four years; an airship could be put
together in as many weeks. Moreover, compared with even a torpedo boat, the airship was remarkably
simple to construct, given the air-chamber material, the engines, the gas plant, and the design,
it was really not more complicated and far easier than an ordinary wooden boat had been a hundred
years before. And now from Cape Horn to Nova Zembla, and from Canton round to Canton again,
there were factories and workshops and industrial resources.

And the German airships were barely in sight of the Atlantic waters, the first Asiatic fleet
was scarcely reported from Upper Burmah, before the fantastic fabric of credit and finance
that had held the world together economically for a hundred years strained and snapped. A tornado
of realisation swept through every stock exchange in the world; banks stopped payment, business
shrank and ceased, factories ran on for a day or so by a sort of inertia, completing the orders
of bankrupt and extinguished customers, then stopped. The New York Bert Smallways saw, for
all its glare of light and traffic, was in the pit of an economic and financial collapse unparalleled
in history. The flow of the food supply was already a little checked. And before the world-war
had lasted two weeks--by the time, that is, that mast was rigged in Labrador--there was not
a city or town in the world outside China, however far from the actual centres of destruction,
where police and government were not adopting special emergency methods to deal with a want
of food and a glut of unemployed people.

The special peculiarities of aerial warfare were of such a nature as to trend, once it had
begun, almost inevitably towards social disorganisation. The first of these peculiarities was
brought home to the Germans in their attack upon New York; the immense power of destruction
an airship has over the thing below, and its relative inability to occupy or police or guard
or garrison a surrendered position. Necessarily, in the face of urban populations in a state
of economic disorganisation and infuriated and starving, this led to violent and destructive
collisions, and even where the air-fleet floated inactive above, there would be civil conflict
and passionate disorder below. Nothing comparable to this state of affairs had been known in
the previous history of warfare, unless we take such a case as that of a nineteenth century
warship attacking some large savage or barbaric settlement, or one of those naval bombardments
that disfigure the history of Great Britain in the late eighteenth century. Then, indeed, there
had been cruelties and destruction that faintly foreshadowed the horrors of the aerial war.
Moreover, before the twentieth century the world had had but one experience, and that a comparatively
light one, in the Communist insurrection of Paris, 1871, of the possibilities of a modern urban
population under warlike stresses.

A second peculiarity of airship war as it first came to the world that also made for social
collapse, was the ineffectiveness of the early air-ships against each other. Upon anything
below they could rain explosives in the most deadly fashion, forts and ships and cities lay
at their mercy, but unless they were prepared for a suicidal grapple they could do remarkably
little mischief to each other. The armament of the huge German airships, big as the biggest
mammoth liners afloat, was one machine gun that could easily have been packed up on a couple
of mules. In addition, when it became evident that the air must be fought for, the air-sailors
were provided with rifles with explosive bullets of oxygen or inflammable substance, but no
airship at any time ever carried as much in the way of guns and armour as the smallest gunboat
on the navy list had been accustomed to do. Consequently, when these monsters met in battle,
they manoeuvred for the upper place, or grappled and fought like junks, throwing grenades fighting
hand to hand in an entirely medieval fashion. The risks of a collapse and fall on either side
came near to balancing in every case the chances of victory. As a consequence, and after their
first experiences of battle, one finds a growing tendency on the part of the air-fleet admirals
to evade joining battle, and to seek rather the moral advantage of a destructive counter attack.

And if the airships were too ineffective, the early drachenflieger were either too unstable,
like the German, or too light, like the Japanese, to produce immediately decisive results.
Later, it is true, the Brazilians launched a flying-machine of a type and scale that was capable
of dealing with an airship, but they built only three or four, they operated only in South
America, and they vanished from history untraceably in the time when world-bankruptcy put a
stop to all further engineering production on any considerable scale.

The third peculiarity of aerial warfare was that it was at once enormously destructive and
entirely indecisive. It had this unique feature, that both sides lay open to punitive attack.
In all previous forms of war, both by land and sea, the losing side was speedily unable to
raid its antagonist's territory and the communications. One fought on a "front," and behind
that front the winner's supplies and resources, his towns and factories and capital, the peace
of his country, were secure. If the war was a naval one, you destroyed your enemy's battle
fleet and then blockaded his ports, secured his coaling stations, and hunted down any stray
cruisers that threatened your ports of commerce. But to blockade and watch a coastline is one
thing, to blockade and watch the whole surface of a country is another, and cruisers and privateers
are things that take long to make, that cannot be packed up and hidden and carried unostentatiously
from point to point. In aerial war the stronger side, even supposing it destroyed the main
battle fleet of the weaker, had then either to patrol and watch or destroy every possible point
at which he might produce another and perhaps a novel and more deadly form of flyer. It meant
darkening his air with airships. It meant building them by the thousand and making aeronauts
by the hundred thousand. A small uninitated airship could be hidden in a railway shed, in a
village street, in a wood; a flying machine is even less conspicuous.

And in the air are no streets, no channels, no point where one can say of an antagonist, "If
he wants to reach my capital he must come by here." In the air all directions lead everywhere.

Consequently it was impossible to end a war by any of the established methods. A, having outnumbered
and overwhelmed B, hovers, a thousand airships strong, over his capital, threatening to bombard
it unless B submits. B replies by wireless telegraphy that he is now in the act of bombarding
the chief manufacturing city of A by means of three raider airships. A denounces B's raiders
as pirates and so forth, bombards B's capital, and sets off to hunt down B's airships, while
B, in a state of passionate emotion and heroic unconquerableness, sets to work amidst his ruins,
making fresh airships and explosives for the benefit of A. The war became perforce a universal
guerilla war, a war inextricably involving civilians and homes and all the apparatus of social
life.

These aspects of aerial fighting took the world by surprise. There had been no foresight to
deduce these consequences. If there had been, the world would have arranged for a Universal
Peace Conference in 1900. But mechanical invention had gone faster than intellectual and social
organisation, and the world, with its silly old flags, its silly unmeaning tradition of nationality,
its cheap newspapers and cheaper passions and imperialisms, its base commercial motives and
habitual insincerities and vulgarities, its race lies and conflicts, was taken by surprise.
Once the war began there was no stopping it. The flimsy fabric of credit that had grown with
no man foreseeing, and that had held those hundreds of millions in an economic interdependence
that no man clearly understood, dissolved in panic. Everywhere went the airships dropping bombs,
destroying any hope of a rally, and everywhere below were economic catastrophe, starving workless
people, rioting, and social disorder. Whatever constructive guiding intelligence there had
been among the nations vanished in the passionate stresses of the time. Such newspapers and
documents and histories as survive from this period all tell one universal story of towns and
cities with the food supply interrupted and their streets congested with starving unemployed;
of crises in administration and states of siege, of provisional Governments and Councils of
Defence, and, in the cases of India and Egypt, insurrectionary committees taking charge of
the re-arming of the population, of the making of batteries and gun-pits, of the vehement manufacture
of airships and flying-machines.

One sees these things in glimpses, in illuminated moments, as if through a driving reek of
clouds, going on all over the world. It was the dissolution of an age; it was the collapse
of the civilisation that had trusted to machinery, and the instruments of its destruction were
machines. But while the collapse of the previous great civilisation, that of Rome, had been
a matter of centuries, had been a thing of phase and phase, like the ageing and dying of a
man, this, like his killing by railway or motor car, was one swift, conclusive smashing and an end.

2

The early battles of the aerial war were no doubt determined by attempts to realise the old
naval maxim, to ascertain the position of the enemy's fleet and to destroy it. There was first
the battle of the Bernese Oberland, in which the Italian and French navigables in their flank
raid upon the Franconian Park were assailed by the Swiss experimental squadron, supported as
the day wore on by German airships, and then the encounter of the British Winterhouse-Dunn
aeroplanes with three unfortunate Germans.

Then came the Battle of North India, in which the entire Anglo-Indian aeronautic settlement
establishment fought for three days against overwhelming odds, and was dispersed and destroyed
in detail.

And simultaneously with the beginning of that, commenced the momentous struggle of the Germans
and Asiatics that is usually known as the Battle of Niagara because of the objective of the
Asiatic attack. But it passed gradually into a sporadic conflict over half a continent. Such
German airships as escaped destruction in battle descended and surrendered to the Americans,
and were re-manned, and in the end it became a series of pitiless and heroic encounters between
the Americans, savagely resolved to exterminate their enemies, and a continually reinforced
army of invasion from Asia quartered upon the Pacific slope and supported by an immense fleet.
From the first the war in America was fought with implacable bitterness; no quarter was asked,
no prisoners were taken. With ferocious and magnificent energy the Americans constructed and
launched ship after ship to battle and perish against the Asiatic multitudes. All other affairs
were subordinate to this war, the whole population was presently living or dying for it. Presently,
as I shall tell, the white men found in the Butteridge machine a weapon that could meet and
fight the flying-machines of the Asiatic swordsman.

The Asiatic invasion of America completely effaced the German-American conflict. It vanishes
from history. At first it had seemed to promise quite sufficient tragedy in itself--beginning
as it did in unforgettable massacre. After the destruction of central New York all America
had risen like one man, resolved to die a thousand deaths rather than submit to Germany. The
Germans grimly resolved upon beating the Americans into submission and, following out the plans
developed by the Prince, had seized Niagara--in order to avail themselves of its enormous powerworks;
expelled all its inhabitants and made a desert of its environs as far as Buffalo. They had
also, directly Great Britain and France declare war, wrecked the country upon the Canadian
side for nearly ten miles inland. They began to bring up men and material from the fleet off
the east coast, stringing out to and fro like bees getting honey. It was then that the Asiatic
forces appeared, and it was in their attack upon this German base at Niagara that the air-fleets
of East and West first met and the greater issue became clear.

