Willy sat and looked at him. The flush went out of her cheeks, and then came again, but it
was a different kind of a flush this time, and the brightness went out of her eyes, and another
light, a softer and a different light, came into them. "Oh! Is that what you want?" she said,
presently. "I wouldn't mind that."

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

Novels and Short Stories

BY

FRANK R. STOCKTON

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, Publishers, New York

"Of Mr. Stockton's stories what is there to say, but that they are an unmixed blessing and
delight? He is surely one of the most inventive of talents, discovering not only a new kind
in humor and fancy, but accumulating an inexhaustible wealth of details in each fresh achievement,
the least of which would be riches from another hand."--W. D. Howells, in Harper's Magazine.

JUST ISSUED

THE ADVENTURES OF CAPTAIN HORN

12mo, $1.50

A novel unlike any that has hitherto appeared from this popular writer's pen. It is a romance
of the most adventurous kind, whose events, born of Mr. Stockton's imagination, are wholly
extraordinary, and yet, through the author's ingenuity, appear altogether real. That Captain
Horn's adventures are varied may be inferred from the fact that they extend from Patagonia
to Maine and from San Francisco to Paris, and include the most remarkable episodes and marvelous
experiences--all of which are woven together by the pleasing thread of a love-story, and brightened
by the gleam of Mr. Stockton's fanciful humor.

     CONCERNING MR. STOCKTON'S STORIES.

     "Mr. Stockton, more, perhaps, than any recent writer, has helped to
     define the peculiar virtues of the short story. He has shown how
     possible it is to use surprise as an effective element, and to make
     the turn of a story rather than the crisis of a plot account for
     everything. It may be said in general that Mr. Stockton does not
     rely often upon a sudden reversal at the end of a story to capture
     the reader, but gives him a whimsey or caprice to enjoy; while he
     works out the details in a succession of amusing turns."--The
     Atlantic Monthly.

New Uniform Edition of the following Volumes:

THE WATCHMAKER'S WIFE

And Other Stories. 12mo, $1.25.

"His stories are characterized by the oddity and drollery which distinguish Mr. Stockton's
from that of the ordinary humorists."--Charleston News and Courier.

THE LATE MRS. NULL

12mo, $1.25.

"We can assure prospective readers that their only regret after finishing the book will be
that never again can they hope for the pleasure of reading it for the first time."--The Critic.

RUDDER GRANGE

12mo, paper, 60 cents; cloth, $1.25.

"Humor like this is perennial."--Washington Post.

THE RUDDER GRANGERS ABROAD

And Other Stories. 12mo, paper, 50 cents; cloth, $1.25.

"It will be eagerly sought by all old friends of Pomona and Jonas and the other characters
who have so delighted the numberless readers of 'Rudder Grange.'"--The Outlook.

THE LADY, OR THE TIGER?

And Other Stories. 12mo, paper, 50 cents; cloth, $1.25.

"His unique stories always hit the mark. But 'The Lady, or the Tiger?' was a shaft condensed
from the entire Stocktonese."--Century Magazine.

THE CHRISTMAS WRECK

And Other Stories. 12mo, paper, 50 cents; cloth, $1.25.

"With the charm of a most delicate humor, his stories become irresistibly attractive."--Philadelphia
Times.

THE BEEMAN OF ORN

And Other Fanciful Tales. 12mo, $1.25.

"It would be idle to describe the fanciful humor of these stories. To read them is simple recreation."--London
Athenæum.

AMOS KILBRIGHT

His Adscititious Experiences. With Other Stories. 12mo, paper, 50 cents; cloth, $1.25.

"A collection of inimitable tales. The writer's whimsical humor and inventive genius find fitting
scope in the title story."--Boston Commonwealth.

ARDIS CLAVERDEN

12mo, $1.25.

