"Better send for some hot water," he whispered to Mrs. Horn when he had regained her side.
Margaret  overheard, and started to rise from her knees, but Mrs. Horn waved her back. "Hannah
will get it," she said, and stooped close to the old woman to give the order. There was a restrained
calmness in her manner that sent a shiver through Margaret. She remembered just such an expression
on her mother's face when her own father lay dying.

The old servant lifted herself slowly, and with bent head and crouching body crept out of the
room without turning her face toward her master. The superstition of the negroes about the
eyes of a dying man kept hers close to the floor--she did not want Richard to look at her.

Dr. Wallace detected the movement--he knew its cause--and passed out of the sick chamber to
where Oliver stood with Miss Clendenning.

"Better go down, Oliver, and see that the hot water is sent up right away," he said. "Poor
old Hannah seems to have lost her head."

"Has there been any further change, Doctor!" Oliver asked, as he started for the stairs.

"No, not since you went. He is holding his own. His hands feel cold, that is all." To Miss
Lavinia he said: "It is only a question of hours," and went back into the room.

Oliver hurried after Hannah. He intended to send Malachi up with the hot water and then persuade
the old woman to go to bed. When he reached the lower hall it was empty; so were the parlors
and the dining-room. At the kitchen-door he met Hannah.  She had filled the pitcher and had
turned to carry it upstairs. Oliver stopped her.

"Where is Malachi, aunty?"

Hannah pointed through the open door to Richard's  little shop in the back yard and hurried
on. Oliver walked quickly through the damp, brick- paved yard, now filled with the sombre shadows
of the night, and pushed open the green door. The place was dark except for a slant of moonlight
which had struggled through the window-pane and was illumining the motor where it rested in
its customary place under the sash.

"Malachi, are you here?"

A sob was the only answer.

Oliver stepped inside. The old man was on his knees, his head and arms lying flat on Richard's
work-bench. Oliver bent down and laid his hand on the old servant's head.

"Mally!"

"I hear ye, Marse Ollie, an' I hearn Hannah. I tell you same as I tol' her--ain't no use fetchin'
no water; ain't no use no mo' for no doctor, ain't no use, ain't no use. I ain't never goin'
to say no mo' to him, 'Chairs all ready, Marse Richard.' I ain't never goin' to wait on him
no mo', Come close to me, Marse Ollie; get down an' let me tell ye, son."

He had lifted his head now, and was looking up into Oliver's eyes, the tears streaming down
his face.

"He freed me; he gimme a home. He ain't neber done nothin' but love me an' take care o' me.
When I bin sick he come in an' he set by me. 'You got a fever, I think, Malachi,' he say. 'Go
to bed dis minute. Cold, is you? Git dat blanket out'n my room an' put it on yo' bed. Don't
let me hab to tell ye dat agin, Malachi.' 'Marse Richard,' I'd say to him, 'I ain't got no
coat fit to wear.' Dat was in de ol' days, when you warn't nuffin but a chile, Marse Ollie.
'Who says so, Malachi,' he say. 'I say so, Marse Richard.' 'Lemme see,' he'd say. 'Dat's so,
dat ain't fit fer nobody to wear. Go upstairs to my closet, Malachi, an' git dat coat I was
a-wearin'  yisterday. I reckon I kin git on widout it."

Malachi had his head in his hands now, his body swaying from side to side. Oliver stood silent.

"When he come home de udder day an' I lif' him in de bed, he say, 'Don't you strain yo'se'f,
Malachi. 'Member, you ain't spry as you was.' Oh, Gawd! Oh, Gawd! What's Malachi gwine to do?"

Oliver sat down beside him. There was nothing to say. The old servant's grief was only his own.

"Ebery night, Marse Ollie, sence he bin sick, I git so lonesome dat I wait till de house git
still an' den I git out'n de bed and crope down-stairs an' listen  at de bedroom door. Den
I hear de mistis say: 'In pain, dear?' and he say, 'No, Sallie.' An' den I crope up agin an'
go to bed kind o' comforted. I was down agin las' night--mos' mawnin'--a-listenin',  an' de
mistis say: 'Kin I do sumpin' to ease de pain, dear?' an' he don't answer, only groan, and
den I hear de bed creak, an' dat SHORT BREF COME. Pat's the sign! I knows it. In de mawnin'
he'll be gone. Can't fool Malachi; I knows de signs."

A gentle tap at the front door on the street sounded through the stillness. Oliver had left
all the intervening doors between the dining-room and the shop open in his search for Malachi.

The old servant, with the lifelong habit upon him, started up to answer the summons.

"No, Mally, stay here," said Oliver. "I'll go. Some neighbor, perhaps, wanting to know how
father is."

Oliver walked rapidly through the yard, tiptoed through the hall, and carefully turned the knob.

Amos Cobb stepped in.

"I saw the light, Oliver," he said, in a low tone, "and I knew you were up. I have an important
telegram from New York in answer to one I sent this morning from my office here. Would it be
possible  for me to see your father? I know it is very late, but the matter is most urgent."

"I'm afraid not, Mr. Cobb. He is very low."

"Not serious?" Amos exclaimed, in alarm.

"Doctor Wallace thinks it is."

"You don't tell me so! I had no idea he was so ill!"

"Nor did we, sir; a change for the worse set in this evening."

Amos leaned back against the wall, his hat in his hand. The light from the eight-sided hall
lamp fell on his thick-set shoulders and square, determined, honest face. The keen-eyed, blunt
Vermonter's distress at the news was sincere, and heartfelt.

"Could I attend to it, Mr. Cobb?" asked Oliver.

"Perhaps so. I've got those fellows now where the hair is short, and I'm going to make 'em
pay for it."

"What is it about?"

Amos Cobb took a double telegram from his pocket. It was closely written and contained a long
message.

"It's about your father's patents. This telegram is from the attorneys of the Gorton--"

Oliver laid his fingers on the open telegram in Cobb's hand, and said, in a positive tone:

"He will not rob this man of his rights, Mr. Cobb."

"It's not that! It is the other way. The attorneys  of the Gorton Company refuse to rob your
father of HIS rights. Further, the bankers will not endorse the Gorton stock until your father's
patent --I think it is No. 18,131"--and he examined the telegram closely--"yes, August 13,
1856, 18,131-- is out of the way. They are prepared to pay a large price for it at once, and
have asked me to see your father and arrange it on the best terms I can. The offer is most
liberal. I don't feel like risking an hour's delay; that's why I'm here so late. What had I
better do?"

Oliver caught Mr. Cobb's hand in his and a flash of exultant joy passed over his face as he
thought of his father's triumph and all it meant to him. Then Margaret's eyes looked into his
and next his mother's;  he knew what it meant to them all. Then the wasted figure of his father
rose in his mind, and his tears blinded him.

Amos stood watching him, trying to read his thoughts. He saw the tears glistening on Oliver's
lashes, but he misunderstood the cause. Only the practical side of the situation appealed to
the Vermonter  at the moment. These New York men had cast discredit on his endorsement of Richard's
priority  in the invention and had tried to ignore them both. Now he held them tight in his
grasp. Horn was a rich man.

