According to Père Labat, the French founded in 1365 Petit Paris at 'Serrelionne,' a town defended
by the fort of the Dieppe and Rouen merchants. The official date of the discovery is 1480,
when Pedro de Cintra, one of the gentlemen of Prince Henry 'the Navigator,' visited the place,
after his employer's death A.D. 1463. In 1607 William Finch, merchant, found the names of divers
Englishmen inscribed on the rocks, especially Thos. Candish, or Cavendish, Captain Lister,
and Sir Francis Drake. In 1666 the Sieur Villault de Bellefons tells us that the river from
Cabo Ledo, or Cape Sierra Leone, had several bays, of which the fourth, now St. George's, was
called Baie de France. This seems to confirm Père Labat. I have noticed the Tasso fort, built
by the English in 1695. The next account is by Mr. Surveyor Smith, [Footnote: He is mentioned
in the last chapter.] who says 'it is not certain when the English became masters of Sierra
Leone, which they possessed unmolested until Roberts the pirate took it in 1720.' Between 1785
and 1787 Lieutenant John Matthews, R.N., resided here, and left full particulars concerning
the export slave-trade, apparently the only business carried on by the British.

Modern Sá Leone is the direct outcome of Lord Chief Justice Mansfield's memorable decision
delivered in the case of Jas. Somerset v. Mr. James G. Stewart, his master. 'The claim of slavery
never can be supported; the power claimed never was in use here or acknowledged by law.' This
took place on June 21, 1772; yet in 1882 the Gold Coast is not wholly free. [Footnote: Slavery
was abolished on the Gold Coast by royal command on December 7, 1874; yet the Gold Coast Times
declares that domestic slavery is an institution recognised by the law-courts of the Protectorate.]

Many 'poor blacks,' thrust out of doors by their quondam owners, flocked to the 'African's
friend,' Granville Sharp, and company. Presently a charitable society, with a large command
of funds and Jonas Hanway for chairman, was formed in London; and our people, sorely sorrowing
for their newly-found sin, proposed a colony founded on philanthropy and free labour in Africa.
Sá Leone was chosen, by the advice of Mr. Smeathman, an old resident. In 1787 Captain Thompson,
agent of the St. George's Bay Company, paid 30l. to the Timni chief, Naimbana, alias King Tom,
for the rocky peninsula, extending twenty square miles from the Rokel to the Ketu River. In
the same year he took out the first batch of emigrants, 460 black freed-men and about 60 whites,
in the ship Nautilus, whose history so far resembled that of the Mayflower. Eighty-four perished
on the journey, and not a few fell victims to the African climate and its intemperance; but
some 400 survived and built for themselves Granville Town. These settlers formed the first colony.

In 1790 the place was attacked by the Timni tribe, to avenge the insult offered to their 'King
Jimmy' by the crew of an English vessel, who burnt his town. The people dispersed, and were
collected from the bush with some difficulty by Mr. Falconbridge. This official was sent out
from England early in 1791, and his wife wrote the book. In the same year (1791) St. George's
Bay Company was incorporated under Act 31 Geo. III. c. 55 as the 'Sierra Leone Company.' Amongst
the body of ninety-nine proprietors the foremost names are Granville Sharp, William Wilberforce,
William Ludlam, and Sir Richard Carr Glynn. They spent 111,500l. in establishing and developing
the settlement during the first ten and a half years of its existence; and the directors organised
a system of government, closely resembling the British constitution, under Lieutenant Clarkson,
R.N.

Next year the second batch of colonists came upon the stage. The negroes who had remained loyal
to England, and had been settled by the Government in Nova Scotia, found the bleak land utterly
unsuitable, and sent home a delegate to pray that they might be restored to Africa. The directors
obtained free passage in sixteen ships for 100 white men and 1,831 negroes. Led by Lieutenant
Clarkson, they landed upon the Lioness range in March (1792), after losing sixty of their number.

Bred upon maize and rice, bread and milk, the new comers sickened on cassava and ground-nuts.
They had no frame-houses, and the rains set in early, about mid-May, before they had found
shelter. The whites were attacked with climate-fever, which did not respect even the doctors.
Quarrels and insubordination resulted, and 800 of the little band were soon carried to the
grave. Then a famine broke out. A ship from England, freighted with stores, provisions, and
frame-houses, was driven back by a storm. Forty-five acres had been promised to each settler-family;
it was found necessary to diminish the number to four, and the denseness of the bush rendered
even those four unmanageable. Disgusted with Granville Town, the new comers transferred themselves
to the present site of Freetown, the northern Libreville.

The Company offered annual premiums to encourage the building of farm-houses, stock-rearing,
and growing provisions and exportable produce. Under Dr. Afzelius, afterwards Professor at
Upsal, who first studied the natural history of the peninsula, they established an experimental
garden and model farm. An English gardener was also employed to naturalise the large collection
of valuable plants from the East and West Indies and the South Sea Islands supplied by Kew.
The Nova Scotians, however, like true slaves, considered agriculture servile and degrading
work--a prejudice which, as will be seen, prevails to this day not only in the colony, but
throughout the length and breadth of the Dark Continent.

Meanwhile war had broken out between England and France, causing the frequent detention of
vessels; and a store-ship in the harbour caught fire, the precursor of a worse misfortune.
On a Sunday morning, 1794, as the unfortunates were looking out for the Company's craft (the
Harpy), a French man-of-war sailed into the roadstead, pillaged the 'church and the apothecary's
shop,' and burnt boats as well as town. The assailant then wasted Granville, sailed up to Bance
Island, and finally captured two vessels, besides the long-expected Harpy. Having thus left
his mark, he disappeared, after granting, at the Governor's urgent request, two or three weeks'
provision for the whites. Famine followed, with sickness in its train, and the neighbouring
slave-dealers added all they could to the sufferings of the settlement.

In the same year Zachary Macaulay, father of Lord Macaulay, became Governor for the first time.
The Company also made its earliest effort to open up trade with the interior by a mission,
and two of their servants penetrated 300 miles inland to Timbo, capital of that part of Pulo-land.
A deputation of chiefs presently visited the settlement to propose terms; but the futility
of the negro settler was a complete obstacle to the development of the internal commerce, the
main object for which the Company was formed. Yet the colony prospered; in 1798 Freetown numbered,
besides public buildings, about 300 houses.

In 1800 the Sierra Leone Company obtained a Charter of Justice from the Crown, authorising
the directors to appoint a Governor and Council, and to make laws not repugnant to those of
England. During the same year the settlers, roused to wrath by a small ground-rent imposed
upon their farms, rose in rebellion. This movement was put down by introducing a third element
of 530 Maroons, who arrived in October. They were untamable Coromanti (Gold Coast) negroes
who boasted that among blacks they were what the English are among whites, able to fight and
thrash all other tribes. They had escaped from their Spanish masters when the British conquered
Jamaica in 1655; they took to the mountains, and, joined by desperadoes, they built sundry
scattered settlements. [Footnote: In 1738, after regular military operations, the Maroons of
Jamaica agreed to act as police and to deliver up runaways. In 1795 the Trelawny men rebelled,
and, having inflicted a severe loss upon the troops, were deported to Nova Scotia and Sá Leone.]
Introducing these men fostered the ill-feeling which, in the earlier part of the present century,
prevented the rival sections from intermarrying. Many of the disaffected Sá Leonites left the
colony; some fled to the wilds and the wild ones of the interior, and a few remained loyal.

Rumours of native invasions began to prevail. The Governor was loth to believe that King Tom
would thus injure his own interests, until one morning, when forty war-canoes, carrying armed
Timnis, were descried paddling round the eastern point. Londoners and Nova Scotians fled to
the fort, and next day the Timni drum sounded the attack. The Governor, who attempted to parley,
was wounded; but the colonists, seeing that life was at stake, armed themselves and beat off
the assailants, when the Maroons of Granville Town completed the rout. After this warning a
wall with strong watch-towers was built round Freetown.

Notwithstanding all precautions, another 'Timni rising' took place in 1803. The assailants
paddled down in larger numbers from Porto Loko, landed at Kissy, and assaulted Freetown, headed
by a jumping and drumming 'witch-woman.' Divided into three storming parties, they bravely
attacked the gates, but they were beaten back without having killed a man. The dead savages
lay so thick that the Governor, fearing pestilence, ordered the corpses to be cast into the sea.

The first law formally abolishing slavery was passed, after a twenty years' campaign, by the
energy of Messieurs Clarkson, Stephen, Wilberforce, and others, on May 23, 1806. In 1807 the
importation of fresh negroes into the colonies became illegal. On March 16, 1808, Sá Leone
received a constitution, and was made a depôt for released captives. This gave rise to the
preventive squadron, and in due time to a large importation of the slaves it liberated. Locally
called 'Cruits,' many of these savages were war-captives; others were criminals condemned to
death, whom the wise chief preferred to sell than to slay. With a marvellous obtuseness and
want of common sense our Government made Englishmen by wholesale of these wretches, with eligibility
to sit on juries, to hold office, and to exercise all the precious rights of Englishmen. Instead
of being apprenticed or bound to labour for some seven years under superintendence, and being
taught to clear the soil, plant and build, as in similar cases a white man assuredly would
have been, they were allowed to loaf, lie, and cheat through a life equally harmful to themselves
and others. 'Laws of labour,' says an African writer, [Footnote: Sierra Leone Weekly Times,
July 30, 1862.] 'may be out of place (date?) in England, but in Sierra Leone they would have
saved an entire population from trusting to the allurements of a petty, demoralising trade;
they would have saved us the sight of decayed villages and a people becoming daily less capable
of bearing the laborious toil of agricultural industry. To handle the hoe has now become a
disgrace, and men have lost their manhood by becoming gentlemen.' I shall presently return
to this subject.

Thus the four colonies which successively peopled Sá Leone were composed of destitute paupers
from England, of fugitive Nova Scotian serviles, of outlawed Jamaican negroes, and of slave-prisoners
or criminals from every region of Western and inner Africa.

The first society of philanthropists, the 'Sierra Leone Company,' failed, but not without dignity.
It had organised a regular government, and even coined its own money. In the British Museum
a silver piece like a florin bears on the obverse 'Sierra Leone Company, Africa,' surrounding
a lion guardant standing on a mountain; the reverse shows between the two numbers 50 and 50
two joined hands, representing the union of England and Africa, and the rim bears 'half-dollar
piece, 1791,' the year of the creation of the colony. The Company's intentions were pure; its
hopes and expectations were lofty, and the enthusiasts flattered themselves that they had proved
the practicability of civilising Africa. But debt and native wars ended their career, and transferred,
on January 1, 1808, their rights to the Crown. The members, however, did not lose courage,
but at once formed the African Institution, the parent of the Royal Geographical Society.

The government of the Crown colony has undergone some slight modifications. In 1866 it was
made, with very little forethought, a kind of government-general, the centre of rule for all
the West African settlements. The unwisdom of this step was presently recognised, and Sá Leone
is now under a charter dated December 17, 1874, the governor-in-chief having command over the
administration of Bathurst, Gambia. Similarly farther south, Lagos, now the Liverpool of West
Africa, has been bracketed, foolishly enough, with the Gold Coast.

The liberateds, called by the people 'Cruits,' and officially 'recaptives,' soon became an
important factor. In 1811 they numbered 2,500 out of 4,500; and between June 1819 and January
1833 they totalled 27,167 hands. They are now represented by about seventeen chief, and two
hundred minor, tribes. A hundred languages, according to Mr. Koelle, increased to a hundred
and fifty by Bishop Vidal, and reduced to sixty by Mr. Griffith, are spoken in the streets
of Freetown, a 'city' which in 1860 numbered 17,000 and now 22,000 souls. The inextricably
mixed descendants of the liberateds may be a total of 35,430, more than half the sum of the
original settlement, 53,862. Being mostly criminals, and ergo more energetic spirits, they
have been the most petted and patronised by colonial rule. There were governors who attempted
to enforce our wise old regulations touching apprenticeship, still so much wanted in the merchant
navy; but disgust, recall, or death always shortened their term of office. Naturally enough,
the 'Cruits' were fiercely hated by Colonists, Settlers, and Maroons. Mrs. Melville reports
an elderly woman exclaiming, 'Well, 'tis only my wonder that we (settlers) do not rise up in
one body and kill and slay, kill and slay! Dem Spanish and Portuguese sailors were quite right
in making slaves. I would do de same myself, suppose I were in dere place.' 'He is only a liberated!'
is a favourite sneer at the new arrivals; so in the West Indies, by a curious irony of fate,
'Willyfoss nigger' is a term of abuse addressed to a Congo or Guinea 'recaptive.' But here
all the tribes are bitterly hostile to one another, and all combine against the white man.
After the fashion of the Gold Coast they have formed themselves into independent caucuses called
'companies,' who set aside funds for their own advancement and for the ruin of their rivals.

The most powerful and influential races are two--the Aku and the Ibo. The Akus [Footnote: This
is a nickname from the national salutation, 'Aku, ku, ku?' ('How d'ye do?')] or Egbas of Yoruba,
the region behind Lagos, the Eyeos of the old writers, so called from their chief town, 'Oyo,'
are known by their long necklaces of tattoo. They are termed the Jews of Western Africa; they
are perfect in their combination, and they poison with a remarkable readiness. The system of
Egba 'clanship' is a favourite, sometimes an engrossing, topic for invective with the local
press, who characterise this worst species of 'trades-union,' founded upon intimidation and
something worse, as the 'Aku tyranny' and the 'Aku Inquisition.' The national proverb speaks
the national sentiment clearly enough: 'Okàn kau lè ase ibi, ikoko li asi ìmolle bi atoju ìmolle
taù, ke atoju ibi pella, bi aba kû ara enni ni isni 'ni' ('A man must openly practise the duties
of kinship, even though he may privately belong to a (secret) club; when he has attended the
club he must also attend to the duties of kinship, because when he dies his kith and kin are
those who bury him').

The Ibos, or 'Eboes' of American tales, are even more divided; still they feel and act upon
the principle 'Union is strength.' This large and savage tribe, whose headquarters are at Abo,
about the head of the Nigerian delta, musters strong at Sá Leone; here they are the Swiss of
the community; the Kruboys, and further south the Kabenda-men being the 'Paddies.' It is popularly
said that while the Aku will do anything for money, the Ibo will do anything for revenge. Both
races are astute in the extreme and intelligent enough to work harm. Unhappily, their talents
rarely take the other direction. In former days they had faction-fights: the second eastern
district witnessed the last serious disturbance in 1834. Now they do battle under the shadow
of the law. 'Aku constables will not, unless in extreme cases, take up their delinquent countrymen,
nor will an Ebo constable apprehend an Ebo thief; and so on through all the different tribes,'
says the lady 'Resident of Sierra Leone.' If the majority of the jury be Akus, they will unhesitatingly
find the worst of Aku criminals innocent, and the most innocent of whites, Ibos, or Timnis
guilty. The Government has done its best to weld all those races into one, and has failed.
Many, however, are becoming Moslems, as at Lagos, and this change may have a happier effect
by introducing the civilisation of El-Islam.

Trial by jury has proved the reverse of a blessing to most non-English lands; in Africa it
is simply a curse. The model institution becomes here, as in the United States, a better machine
for tyranny than any tyrant, except a free people, ever invented. The British Constitution
determines that a man shall be tried by his peers. Half a dozen of his peers at Sá Leone may
be full-blooded blacks, liberated slaves, half-reformed fetish-worshippers, sometimes with
a sneaking fondness for Shángo, the Egba god of fire; and, if not criminals and convicts in
their own country, at best paupers clad in dishclouts and palm-oil. The excuse is that a white
jury cannot be collected among the forty or fifty eligibles in Freetown. It is vain to 'challenge,'
for other negroes will surely take the place of those objected to. No one raises the constitutional
question, 'Are these half-reclaimed savages my peers?' And if he did, Justice would sternly
reply, 'Yes.' The witnesses will forswear themselves, not, like our 'posters,' for half a crown,
but gratis, because the plaintiff or defendant is a fellow-tribesman. The judge may be 'touched
with a tar-brush;' but, be he white as milk, he must pass judgment according to verdict. This
state of things recalls to mind the Ireland of the early nineteenth century, when the judges
were prefects armed with a penal code, and the jurymen vulgar, capricious, and factious partisans.

