It is easy to foresee the pretty quarrel preparing. Once again,  then, it may be asserted that
the record of Irish Parliaments is  a sad one.

But could more have been expected of it? Is the scope of  measures, within the capabilities
of any legislative assembly of  modern times, comprehensive enough to embrace every thing of
importance to a Catholic people, such as the Irish nation has  ever been?

The general question of parliamentary rule is a very complicated  one. The modern Parliament
is a very different thing from the  old assemblies of the representatives of various orders
in any  state. With the Church originated those ancient institutions,  which in certain parts
of Europe partook at once of the twofold  nature of councils and political assemblies.

This order has passed away, and no one thinks to-day of reviving  those time-honored institutions,
however much political writers  may be inclined to favor despotism on the one hand, or anarchy
on the other. What, then, is the origin of the modern  Parliament? It grew into being in England
during the seventeenth  and eighteenth centuries, emanating as it were, slowly, out of  the
decomposition of the old Parliaments; the aristocracy, and  the Church chiefly, losing more
and more the influence once  belonging to them, which, in old times, made them paramount in
those state deliberations. This is one of the chief features of  the newly-modelled British
Constitution, which is of very recent  growth, and became fixed and settled only after the
downfall of  the Stuart dynasty, receiving additional modifications in the  contest of parties
under the Brunswick and Hanover lines of  kings.

It is, consequently, an altogether British growth of recent date, particularly well adapted
for England, whose prosperity since  its establishment has ever been on the increase. But it
is very  doubtful whether other countries have derived equal benefit from  its adoption.

Toward the end of last century, some few Frenchmen of note  attempted, with Mounier at their
head, to reproduce a feeble  copy of it in France. Their failure is too well known to the 
world: how their English ideas were scouted by the people, while  a far more radical revolution
swept away every vestige of the  old French Constitution, without substituting in its stead
any  thing save crude and infidel ideas, which resulted in anarchy.

The lamentable failure of the first attempt was no  discouragement to other political theorists;
and the century has  witnessed and still witnesses every day essays at English  legislation,
as embodied in the constitution of its Parliaments  chiefly, all over Europe; and all, as sanguine
writers would  have us believe, to serve as the stepping-stone for the  "Universal Republic,"
which is to regenerate the world.

The great questions in all those assemblies are of material  interests, material prosperity,
material projects. Of the moral  well-being of the people seldom or never a word is heard;
and,  whenever a moral question does come up for discussion, the  vagueness of the theories
advanced and discussed, the indecision  of the measures proposed, the want of unity in the
views  developed, show how unfit are modern legislators for even  touching on what concerns
the soul of man. The legislators  themselves feel that their character is far from being a
sacred  one, and that the spiritual element is not comprehended in their  world. And they are
certainly right.

Even the measures of external policy are not universally  successful in securing the material
well-being of the people. In  France, at least, the various legislatures which have succeeded
one another have perhaps been productive of as much harm in that  regard as the liberty of
the press and freedom of public  discussion, which have always had and always will have their
ardent advocates, and the existence of which is compatible with  public order in some countries,
but not in others.

The same, with certain reservations, is true of the Spanish- American republics, Brazil, and
now of Spain, Italy, and other  European nations. The legislative machine which is found to
work  so well in England, and what were or still are her colonies,  seems to get out of order
in climates and among nations  unaccustomed to it, even as far as material prosperity is  concerned.

But it is neither our object to write a history of Parliaments,  nor absolutely to condemn
those modern institutions by the few  words devoted to them. All we wish to insist upon is,
that all  the evils of nations are not cured by them, and that they should  not be taken as
in themselves absolutely desirable and all- sufficient.

As to their probable fate in the future, their modern dress is  not yet two centuries old,
and the seeds of decay already appear  in many places. A few questions are sufficient to demonstrate
this: Can a Parliament, as understood to-day, last for any  length of time and work successfully,
when composed for a great  part of corrupt legislators who have been returned by corrupt  electors?
Has not the progress of corruption on both sides,  elected and electors, been of late alarmingly
on the increase?  What space of time is requisite for legislation to come to a  stand-still,
and prove to modern nations the impossibility of  carrying on even material affairs with such
corrupt machinery?  It requires no great foresight to reply to these questions.

And yet it is on this tottering institution that the Ireland of  our days has set her hope.
She imagines that, this once gained,  prosperity and happiness are insure; that, without it,
she  cannot but be discontented, as she is and must be if she  possesses any feeling. And such
is the anomaly of her position  that, with this conviction firmly set before us, we believe
she  is right in demanding home-rule, and that by insisting upon it  she will eventually attain
it; yet are we convinced that, having  obtained it, her evils will not be cured, nor her happiness
served. We prize her highly enough to think her worthy of  something better, which "something"
we are sure God keeps in  reserve for her.

Suppose her earnest wish granted, and a home Parliament given  her. Suppose even the old question
of her relations with the  English Legislature determined. A great difficulty has been  settled
satisfactorily, though it is difficult to see how this  may come about. But supposing the questions
for her discussion  and free-determination being clearly defined, home-rule becomes  possible
without exciting the opposition of the rival Parliament  of Great Britain.

What is likely to be the composition of her state institution?  and what the programme of its
labors?

In the composition of her two Houses, if she have two, the  Catholics will not be excluded
as they were in 1782; a great  change certainly, and fraught no doubt with great benefit to
the  country. But will the English element cease to predominate? The  native race has been
kept so long in a state of bondage that few  members of it certainly will take a leading part
in the  discussions. How many even will be allowed to influence the  election of members by
their votes or their capacity? Universal  suffrage can scarcely be anticipated, perhaps even
it would not  be desirable. The question is certainly a doubtful one. Of one  thing are we
certain regarding the composition of an Irish  Parliament: it would not really represent the
nation.

For the nation is Catholic to the core; the sufferings of more  than two centuries have made
religion dearer to her than life;  all she has been, all she is to-day, may be summed up in
one  word--Catholic. Nothing has been left her but this proud and  noble title, which of all
others her enemies would have wrested  from her. The nation exists to-day, independently of
parliamentary enactments, in spite of the numberless  parliamentary decrees of former times;
she is living, active,  working, and doing wonders, which shall come under notice. See  how
busy she has been since first allowed to do. Her altars, her  religious houses, her asylums,
every thing holy that was in  ruins--all have been restored.

Not satisfied with working so energetically on her own soil, she  has crossed over to England,
where the great and unexpected  Catholic revival, which has struck such awe and fear into the
hearts of sectarians, is in great measure due to her.

Cross the broad Atlantic, and even the vast Southern Ocean, and  the contemplation of Irish
activity in North America, Australia,  and all the English colonies, the intense vitality displayed
by  this so long down-trodden people is amazing. But all this  activity, all this vitality,
is employed in establishing on a  firm and indestructible basis everywhere the holy Catholic
Church.

Looking on all this, say then whether Ireland is truly Catholic,  whether the nation is any
thing but Catholic.

But can her new Parliament be Catholic?

No! No one imagines such a thing possible; no one thinks, no one  dreams of it. It is clear,
then, that it cannot represent the  nation.

Who will go to compose it? Men who will discard-such is the  modern expression-discard their
creed, and leave it at the door.  Nothing better can be expected. It is true that the bitter
feeling engendered for so long a time by religious questions is  not likely to show itself
again; or though, to speak more  correctly, a religious question never was raised in Ireland,
the  whole people being one on that subject; but it may be hoped that  the bitter persecution
against every thing Catholic is not  likely to recur, whatever may be the composing elements
of the  new Houses of Parliament.

In the impossibility of even guessing at the probable opinions  of the men who are to have
the future fate of Ireland in their  hands, it may be fairly predicted that, within their legislative
halls, religious and consequently moral questions will only be  approached in the spirit of
liberalism. Probably, the only thing  attempted will be the rendering of the people externally
happy  and prosperous, supposing the majority of the members animated  by true patriotic principles;
and indeed the aspirations of all  who wish well to Ireland are limited to external or material
prosperity; and, for our own part, we do not consider this of  slight moment. But is this all
that the Irish people require?

They have been brought so low in the scale of humanity that  every thing has to be accomplished
to bring about their  resurrection; and the "every thing" is comprised in substituting  flesh-meat
for potatoes and good warm clothing for rags. Whoever  says that the Irish people can be contented
with such a  restoration as this, knows little of their noble nature, and has  never read their
heart.

Assuredly, they have a right to those worldly blessings of which  they have been so long deprived;
and we would not be understood  as saying that one of the primary objects of good government
is  not to confer those material blessings on the people; nay, it is  our belief that, when
a whole nation has been so long subjected  to all the evils which not only render this life
miserable, but  absolutely intolerable, it is incumbent on those intrusted with  the direction
of affairs to remedy those evils instantly, and  endeavor to make the people forget their misfortunes
by, at  least, the enjoyments of this life's ordinary comforts.  Forgetfulness of the past
can be obtained by no other means. And  this is a very simple, but, at the same time, very
satisfactory  answer to the question so often put and so often replied to in  such a variety
of ways, "Why is Ireland discontented?"

But, while admitting the truth, nay, the necessity of all this,  the government of a Catholic
people has not fulfilled its whole  duty when it has exerted itself to the utmost to procure,
and  finally succeeded in procuring, the temporal happiness of the  nation. In addition to
this, it must consult its moral and  religious wants, or a great part of its duty remains neglected.

This, indeed, does not nowadays occur to the minds of the  majority of men, who have, it would
appear, agreed among  themselves to consider it an axiom of government that the rulers  of
a people should have no other object in view than the  material comfort and welfare of the
masses. They do not reflect  that the wants of a nation must be satisfied in their entirety,
and that its moral and religious needs are of no less importance, to say the least, than the
temporal. This is evident in all  those countries where, in imitation of England, or at her
instigation, parliamentary governments are now in operation-- countries which include not only
Europe, without excepting  Greece and her chief islands, but Southern Africa at the Cape, 
America, North and South, Australia, and the, large islands of  Jamaica, Tasmania, New Zealand,
and several groups of Polynesia,  preparing Asia for the boon which, probably, is destined
to show  itself in Japan first, spreading thence all over the largest  continent of the world.

Wherever modern Parliaments flourish, there material interests  alone are consulted. This is
a new feature of Japhetism; and God  alone knows how long nations will be satisfied with such
a state  of things!

But if non-Catholic nations thus limit their aspirations, there  is all the more reason why
a Catholic people cannot imitate them  in such a course, particularly if that people has for
centuries  submitted to every evil of this life in order to preserve its  religion, showing
that, in its eyes, religious blessings rank  far above all imaginable material advantages;
and we all know  such to be the case for Ireland.

But, it may be asked, what are those religious wants which must  be satisfied, and how are
we to know them? The answer, to a  Catholic, is plain, and nothing is easier of recognition.
What  the spiritual guides of the nation consider of paramount  importance and of absolute
necessity, is of that character, and  the government which neglects to listen to remonstrances
coming  from such a quarter, shows thereby that it is ignorant of, or  slights, its plain duty.
Ever since the load of tyranny, which  weighed down the Irish people, has been removed, if
not entirely, at least suffered a very appreciable reduction, since the  rulers of the Church
in that unhappy country have been able to  lift up their voice, and proclaimed what they considered
of  supreme importance to those under their charge, is it not a  strange truth that their voice
has never ceased remonstrating,  and that, at this very moment, it is as loud in protestation
as  ever? When has it been listened to as it should be? Is it likely  to meet more regard if
Ireland obtains home-rule? It grieves us  to say that the only answer which can be given to
this last  question is still an emphatic "No!"

And for the very simple reason, already given, that Ireland  cannot have a truly Catholic Parliament,
and that all the great  measures which would occupy the attention of the Catholic  members,
in the event of their meeting at Dublin, would be  shemes for the advancement of manufactures,
trade, the  construction of ships, tenant-right laws, etc.; all very  excellent things in their
way, and to which Ireland has an  undoubted right, which will be strongly contested, and in
the  struggle for which she may again be worsted; which, even if she  obtains, will not enable
her to compete with England, and which,  after and above all, do not correspond to the heart-beat
of the  nation--the restoration complete and entire of the Catholic  Church all over her broad
land.

It may be well to remark that the broad assertion just laid down  involves no reprisals against
the rights of the minority. That  minority, backed by the English Government, has enjoyed nearly
three centuries of oppression and tyranny, has taxed human  ingenuity to the utmost for the
purpose of concocting schemes of  destruction against the majority: it has failed. The majority,
which at last breathes freely, can well afford not to raise a  finger in retaliation, and to
leave what is called freedom of  conscience to those who so long refused it. The result may
be  left to the operation of natural laws and the holy workings of  Providence. But their religious
rights ought, at east, to be  secured to them entire; the rights of their Church to be left
forever perfectly free and untrammelled.

But, how much has been done against this, even of late? Why has  a Protestant university so
many privileges, while a similar  Catholic institution is refused recognition? To answer what
purpose have the Queen's Colleges been established? The Catholic  bishops certainly possess
rights with regard to the education of  their flocks; with what persistence have not those
rights been  either attacked or circumvented! If the Protestant Establishment  has been finally
abolished, have not its ministers obtained by  the very act of abolition concessions which
give them still  great weight, morally and materially, in the scale opposed to  Catholic proselytism,
nay, preservation? Is it not a stain even  yet, if not in the eye of the law, at least in that
of the  English colonized in Ireland, to be a "Roman Catholic?" Is  "souperism" so completely
dead that it never can revive? How  many means are still left in the hands of the Protestant
minority to vex, annoy, and impoverish the supposed free  majority?

Whoever considers the matter seriously cannot but acknowledge  that in Ireland there exists
still a vast amount of open or  silent opposition to the Church of the majority, and a Church
which the majority loves with such deep affection that, so long  as the least remnant of the
old oppression remains, so long must  Ireland remain discontented.

And it is more than doubtful whether home-rule would be a  sufficient remedy for such a state
of things, owing to the fact,  already insisted upon, that the new Parliament could not be
a  Catholic Parliament.

The reader may easily perceive what was meant by saying that the  entire restoration of the
Catholic Church in the island does not  suppose the consequent extirpation of heresy; but it
clearly  supposes the perfectly free exercise of all her rights by the  Church. Nothing short
of this can satisfy the Irish people.

III. We pass on to the consideration of a third delusive hope,  that of the people regaining
all their rights by the  overwhelming force of numbers and armed resistance to tyranny-- the
advocacy of physical force, as it is called; in other words,  the right and necessity of open
insurrection, or underhand and  secret associations, evidently requiring for success the  cooperation
of the numerous revolutionary societies of Europe: a  criminal delusion, which has brought
many evils upon the country, and which is still cherished by too many of her sons. Though we
purpose speaking freely on this subject, we hope that our  language may be that of moderation
and justice.

To a Catholic, who has either witnessed or heard of the  frightful evils brought on modern
nations by the doctrine of the  right of insurrection, of armed force, of open rebellion, 
against real or fancied wrong, that doctrine cannot but be  loathsome and detestable.

True, there is for nations, as for individuals, something  resembling the right of self-defence.
No Catholic theologian can  assert that a people is bound to bow under the yoke of tyranny,
when it can shake that tyranny off; and it is this truth which  affords a pretext to many advocates
of what is called the right  of insurrection. Moreover, there is no doubt that, in the case
of Ireland particularly, the Irish had for many centuries a  legitimate government of their
own, and when attacked by  foreigners, who landed on their shores under whatever pretext, 
they had a perfect right, nay, it was the duty of the heads of  clans, the provincial kings
and princes, to protect the whole  nation, and the part of it intrusted to their special care
in  particular, against open or covert foes. The name of "rebels"  was given them by the invaders,
with no shadow of possible  pretext, and the name was as justly resented as it was unjustly
applied.

Under the Stuart dynasty the state of the case is still more  clear: for then they were fighting
on the side of the English  sovereigns to whom they had submitted; and, in waging war  against
the enemies of their king and country, they were not  only enforcing their right, but performing
a highly-meritorious  and in some cases heroic duty. Yet the name of "rebels" was  again applied
to them, and its penalty inflicted upon them, as  has been seen.

After their complete subjugation, the right of retaliating on  their oppressors, even if justifiable
in theory, was often  illusory and indefensible in fact, because of the impossibility  of successful
resistance; and the secret associations known  under the names of "Tories," "Rapparees," "White
Boys,"  "Ribbonmen," were, with the exception of the first, condemned by  the Church.

But in modern times the right of insurrection cannot possibly be  defended, if, as can scarcely
be avoided, the cause of a  Catholic nation is linked with the various revolutionary  societies
and conspiracies which disgrace modern Europe,  endanger society, and have all been condemned
by the sovereign  Pontiff.

An extensive discussion of both cases--the stubborn resistance  made after the fall of the
Stuarts, and some of the attempts at  independence of later times--would show at once the difference
between the two cases, and prevent thinking men from ranking the  "Tories" of ancient times
with the avowed revolutionists of our  days. Mr. Prendergast has given a fair sketch of the
former in  the second edition of his "Cromwellian Settlement."

The reader who may peruse this very interesting account can  notice a remarkable coincidence;
one, however, which to our  knowledge has not yet been pointed out: the very scenes enacted
in Ireland, during the long resistance offered to oppression  after the downfall of the Stuart
dynasty, were reenacted in  France during the Reign of Terror, and for some time after,  throughout
the districts which had risen in insurrection against  the tyranny of the Convention, and both
cases were certainly  examples of right warring against might.

In fact, to a person acquainted with the history of the violent  changes which, during the
last century, modern theories,  metaphysical systems, and, above all, the working of secret
societies, have caused, the reading of the history of England  and Ireland, from the Reformation
down, offers new sources of  interest, by showing how the last frightful convulsion in France
was merely a copy of the first in England, at least as far as  the means employed in each go,
if not in the ultimate object.

In England the revolution was begun by the monarch himself, with  a view of rendering his power
more absolute and universal by the  rejection of the papal supremacy, and, consequently, the
destruction of the Catholic Church. In France the revolution was  begun by the leaders of the
middle classes, who made use of the  immense power given them by the secret societies which
then  flourished, and the influence of an unbridled press, to destroy  royalty and aristocracy,
that they might themselves obtain the  supreme power and rule the country. The object of the
two  revolutions was therefore widely different; but the means  employed in bringing them about,
when considered in detail, are  found to have been perfectly identical.

In both countries, on the side of the revolutionary party or of  the National Assembly, various
oaths were imposed and enforced,  troops dispatched, battles fought, devastating bands ravaged
the  country while in a state of insurrection, the same barbarous  orders in La Vendee as in
Ireland, so that the language even  employed in the second case is an exact counterpart of
that in  the first. There is destruction resolved upon; then the  authorities desisting and
resolving on a change of policy,  though with a rigid continuance of the police measures, 
including in both cases "domiciliary visits," inquests by  commissioners, courts-martial in
the first case, revolutionary  tribunals in the second--consequent wholesale executions on
both  sides. There were the decrees of confiscation carried out with  the utmost barbarity,
resulting in sudden changes of fortune,  the class that was aristocratic being often reduced
to beggary,  while its wealth was enjoyed by the new men of the middle  classes. The peasants
derive very little benefit from the  revolution in France--none whatever, or rather the very
reverse  of benefit, in Ireland. And, to go into the minutest details,  there are the same
informers, spies, troops of armed police, or  adventurers on the hunt to discover, prosecute,
and destroy the  last remnants of the insurgents in France as well as in Ireland.

In considering the religious side of the question, the parallel  would be found still more
striking, as the proscribed ministers  of religion were of the same faith in France as in the
British  Isles, while the means adopted for their destruction were  exactly similar.

On the side of the insurgents the same comparison holds good. In  both cases there is the first
refusal to obey unjust decrees,  the same stubborn opposition to more stringent acts of  legislature,
the emigration of the aristocratic classes, the  devotedness of the clergy, with here and there
an unfortunate  exception, the same mode of concealment resorted to--false doors, traps, secret
closets, disguise, etc.; the flying to the  country and concealment in woods, caves, hills,
or mountains;  and, when the burden grows intolerable, and open resistance,  even without hope
of success, becomes inevitable, there are the  same resources, method of organization, attack,
call to arms,  call to Heaven, the same heroism: yes, and the same approval of  religion and
admiration of all noble hearts throughout the world.

The only difference consists in the fact that in France the  struggle lasted a few years only;
in Ireland, centuries. In  France the fury of the revolution soon spent itself in horrors;
in Ireland the sternness of the persecuting power stood grim and  unrelaxing for ages, adding
decree to decree, army to army. In  France, numerous hunters of priests and of "brigands,"
as they  were called, flourished only for a short decade of years; in  Ireland similar hunters
of priests and of "Tories" carried on  their infamous trade for more than a century.

In the case of the latter country, too, the confiscation was  much more thorough and permanent,
the emigration complete and  final; but, in both cases, the Catholic religion outlived the
storm, and lifted up her head more gloriously than ever as soon  as its fury had abated.

