Thereupon he got up, and rode forth into the forest, and it was not long before a fine stag
crossed his path exactly according to his dream. He aimed and was about to shoot it, when the
stag ran away. He gave chase over hedges and ditches for the whole day without feeling tired,
but in the evening the stag vanished from his sight, and when the gold-child looked round him,
he was standing before a little house, wherein was a witch. He knocked, and a little old woman
came out and asked, "What are you doing so late in the midst of the great forest?" "Have you
not seen a stag?" "Yes," answered she, "I know the stag well," and thereupon a little dog which
had come out of the house with her, barked at the man violently. "Wilt thou be silent, thou
odious toad," said he, "or I will shoot thee dead." Then the witch cried out in a passion,
"What! will you slay my little dog?" and immediately transformed him, so that he lay like a
stone, and his bride awaited him in vain and thought, "That which I so greatly dreaded, which
lay so heavily on my heart, has come upon him!" But at home the other brother was standing
by the gold-lilies, when one of them suddenly drooped.  "Good heavens!" said he, "my brother
has met with some great misfortune! I must away to see if I can possibly rescue him." Then
the father said, "Stay here, if I lose you also, what shall I do?" But he answered, "I must
and will go forth!"

Then he mounted his golden horse, and rode forth and entered the great forest, where his brother
lay turned to stone. The old witch came out of her house and called him, wishing to entrap
him also, but he did not go near her, and said, "I will shoot you, if you will not bring my
brother to life again." She touched the stone, though very unwillingly, with her forefinger,
and he was immediately restored to his human shape. But the two gold-children rejoiced when
they saw each other again, kissed and caressed each other, and rode away together out of the
forest, the one home to his bride, and the other to his father. The father then said, "I knew
well that you had rescued your brother, for the golden lily suddenly rose up and blossomed
out again." Then they lived happily, and all prospered with them until their death.

86 The Fox and the Geese

The fox once came to a meadow in which was a flock of fine fat geese, on which he smiled and
said, "I come in the nick of time, you are sitting together quite beautifully, so that I can
eat you up one after the other." The geese cackled with terror, sprang up, and began to wail
and beg piteously for their lives. But the fox would listen to nothing, and said, "There is
no mercy to be had! You must die."  At length one of them took heart and said, "If we poor
geese are to yield up our vigorous young lives, show us the only possible favour and allow
us one more prayer, that we may not die in our sins, and then we will place ourselves in a
row, so that you can always pick yourself out the fattest." "Yes," said the fox, "that is reasonable,
and a pious request. Pray away, I will wait till you are done."  Then the first began a good
long prayer, for ever saying, "Ga! Ga!" and as she would make no end, the second did not wait
until her turn came, but began also, "Ga! Ga!" The third and fourth followed her, and soon
they were all cackling together.

When they have done praying, the story shall be continued further, but at present they are
still praying without stopping."

87 The Poor Man and the Rich Man

In olden times, when the Lord himself still used to walk about on this earth amongst men, it
once happened that he was tired and overtaken by the darkness before he could reach an inn.
Now there stood on the road before him two houses facing each other; the one large and beautiful,
the other small and poor. The large one belonged to a rich man, and the small one to a poor man.

Then the Lord thought, "I shall be no burden to the rich man, I will stay the night with him."
When the rich man heard some one knocking at his door, he opened the window and asked the stranger
what he wanted. The Lord answered, "I only ask for a night's lodging."

Then the rich man looked at the traveler from head to foot, and as the Lord was wearing common
clothes, and did not look like one who had much money in his pocket, he shook his head, and
said, "No, I cannot take you in, my rooms are full of herbs and seeds; and if I were to lodge
everyone who knocked at my door, I might very soon go begging myself. Go somewhere else for
a lodging," and with this he shut down the window and left the Lord standing there.

So the Lord turned his back on the rich man, and went across to the small house and knocked.
He had hardly done so when the poor man opened the little door and bade the traveler come in.
"Pass the night with me, it is already dark," said he; "you cannot go any further to-night."
This pleased the Lord, and he went in. The poor man's wife shook hands with him, and welcomed
him, and said he was to make himself at home and put up with what they had got; they had not
much to offer him, but what they had they would give him with all their hearts. Then she put
the potatoes on the fire, and while they were boiling, she milked the goat, that they might
have a little milk with them. When the cloth was laid, the Lord sat down with the man and his
wife, and he enjoyed their coarse food, for there were happy faces at the table. When they
had had supper and it was bed-time, the woman called her husband apart and said, "Hark you,
dear husband, let us make up a bed of straw for ourselves to-night, and then the poor traveler
can sleep in our bed and have a good rest, for he has been walking the whole day through, and
that makes one weary." "With all my heart," he answered, "I will go and offer it to him;" and
he went to the stranger and invited him, if he had no objection, to sleep in their bed and
rest his limbs properly. But the Lord was unwilling to take their bed from the two old folks;
however, they would not be satisfied, until at length he did it and lay down in their bed,
while they themselves lay on some straw on the ground.

Next morning they got up before daybreak, and made as good a breakfast as they could for the
guest. When the sun shone in through the little window, and the Lord had got up, he again ate
with them, and then prepared to set out on his journey.

But as he was standing at the door he turned round and said, "As you are so kind and good,
you may wish three things for yourselves and I will grant them."  Then the man said, "What
else should I wish for but eternal happiness, and that we two, as long as we live, may be healthy
and have every day our daily bread; for the third wish, I do not know what to have." And the
Lord said to him, "Will you wish for a new house instead of this old one?" "Oh, yes," said
the man; "if I can have that, too, I should like it very much." And the Lord fulfilled his
wish, and changed their old house into a new one, again gave them his blessing, and went on.

The sun was high when the rich man got up and leaned out of his window and saw, on the opposite
side of the way, a new clean-looking house with red tiles and bright windows where the old
hut used to be. He was very much astonished, and called his wife and said to her, "Tell me,
what can have happened? Last night there was a miserable little hut standing there, and to-day
there is a beautiful new house. Run over and see how that has come to pass."

So his wife went and asked the poor man, and he said to her, "Yesterday evening a traveler
came here and asked for a night's lodging, and this morning when he took leave of us he granted
us three wishes---eternal happiness, health during this life and our daily bread as well, and
besides this, a beautiful new house instead of our old hut."

When the rich man's wife heard this, she ran back in haste and told her husband how it had
happened. The man said, "I could tear myself to pieces! If I had but known that! That traveler
came to our house too, and wanted to sleep here, and I sent him away." "Quick!" said his wife,
"get on your horse. You can still catch the man up, and then you must ask to have three wishes
granted to you."

The rich man followed the good counsel and galloped away on his horse, and soon came up with
the Lord. He spoke to him softly and pleasantly, and begged him not to take it amiss that he
had not let him in directly; he was looking for the front-door key, and in the meantime the
stranger had gone away, if he returned the same way he must come and stay with him. "Yes,"
said the Lord; "if I ever come back again, I will do so." Then the rich man asked if might
not wish for three things too, as his neighbor had done? "Yes," said the Lord, he might, but
it would not be to his advantage, and he had better not wish for anything; but the rich man
thought that he could easily ask for something which would add to his happiness, if he only
knew that it would be granted. So the Lord said to him, "Ride home, then, and three wishes
which you shall form, shall be fulfilled."

The rich man had now gained what he wanted, so he rode home, and began to consider what he
should wish for. As he was thus thinking he let the bridle fall, and the horse began to caper
about, so that he was continually disturbed in his meditations, and could not collect his thoughts
at all. He patted its neck, and said, "Gently, Lisa," but the horse only began new tricks.
Then at last he was angry, and cried quite impatiently, "I wish your neck was broken!" Directly
he had said the words, down the horse fell on the ground, and there it lay dead and never moved
again. And thus was his first wish fulfilled. As he was miserly by nature, he did not like
to leave the harness lying there; so he cut it off, and put it on his back; and now he had
to go on foot. "I have still two wishes left," said he, and comforted himself with that thought.

And now as he was walking slowly through the sand, and the sun was burning hot at noon-day,
he grew quite hot-tempered and angry. The saddle hurt his back, and he had not yet any idea
what to wish for. "If I were to wish for all the riches and treasures in the world," said he
to himself, "I should still to think of all kinds of other things later on, I know that, beforehand.
But I will manage so that there is nothing at all left me to wish for afterwards." Then he
sighed and said, "Ah, if I were but that Bavarian peasant, who likewise had three wishes granted
to him, and knew quite well what to do, and in the first place wished for a great deal of beer,
and in the second for as much beer as he was able to drink, and in the third for a barrel of
beer into the bargain."

Many a time he thought he had found it, but then it seemed to him to be, after all, too little.
Then it came into his mind, what an easy life his wife had, for she stayed at home in a cool
room and enjoyed herself. This really did vex him, and before he was aware, he said, "I just
wish she was sitting there on this saddle, and could not get off it, instead of my having to
drag it along on my back." And as the last word was spoken, the saddle disappeared from his
back, and he saw that his second wish had been fulfilled. Then he really did feel warm. He
began to run and wanted to be quite alone in his own room at home, to think of something really
large for his last wish. But when he arrived there and opened the parlour-door, he saw his
wife sitting in the middle of the room on the saddle, crying and complaining, and quite unable
to get off it. So he said, "Do bear it, and I will wish for all the riches on earth for thee,
only stay where thou art." She, however, called him a fool, and said, "What good will all the
riches on earth do me, if I am to sit on this saddle? Thou hast wished me on it, so thou must
help me off." So whether he would or not, he was forced to let his third wish be that she should
be quit of the saddle, and able to get off it, and immediately the wish was fulfilled. So he
got nothing by it but vexation, trouble, abuse, and the loss of his horse; but the poor people
lived happily, quietly, and piously until their happy death.

88 The Singing, Springing Lark

There was once on a time a man who was about to set out on a long journey, and on parting he
asked his three daughters what he should bring back with him for them. Whereupon the eldest
wished for pearls, the second wished for diamonds, but the third said, "Dear father, I should
like a singing, soaring lark."  The father said, "Yes, if I can get it, you shall have it,"
kissed all three, and set out. Now when the time had come for him to be on his way home again,
he had brought pearls and diamonds for the two eldest, but he had sought everywhere in vain
for a singing, soaring lark for the youngest, and he was very unhappy about it, for she was
his favorite child. Then his road lay through a forest, and in the midst of it was a splendid
castle, and near the castle stood a tree, but quite on the top of the tree, he saw a singing,
soaring lark. "Aha, you come just at the right moment!" he said, quite delighted, and called
to his servant to climb up and catch the little creature. But as he approached the tree, a
lion leapt from beneath it, shook himself, and roared till the leaves on the trees trembled.
"He who tries to steal my singing, soaring lark," he cried, "will I devour." Then the man said,
"I did not know that the bird belonged to thee. I will make amends for the wrong I have done
and ransom myself with a large sum of money, only spare my life." The lion said, "Nothing can
save thee, unless thou wilt promise to give me for mine own what first meets thee on thy return
home; and if thou wilt do that, I will grant thee thy life, and thou shalt have the bird for
thy daughter, into the bargain."  But the man hesitated and said, "That might be my youngest
daughter, she loves me best, and always runs to meet me on my return home." The servant, however,
was terrified and said, "Why should your daughter be the very one to meet you, it might as
easily be a cat, or dog?" Then the man allowed himself to be over-persuaded, took the singing,
soaring lark, and promised to give the lion whatsoever should first meet him on his return home.

When he reached home and entered his house, the first who met him was no other than his youngest
and dearest daughter, who came running up, kissed and embraced him, and when she saw that he
had brought with him a singing, soaring lark, she was beside herself with joy. The father,
however, could not rejoice, but began to weep, and said, "My dearest child, I have bought the
little bird dear. In return for it, I have been obliged to promise thee to a savage lion, and
when he has thee he will tear thee in pieces and devour thee," and he told her all, just as
it had happened, and begged her not to go there, come what might. But she consoled him and
said, "Dearest father, indeed your promise must be fulfilled. I will go thither and soften
the lion, so that I may return to thee safely." Next morning she had the road pointed out to
her, took leave, and went fearlessly out into the forest. The lion, however, was an enchanted
prince and was by day a lion, and all his people were lions with him, but in the night they
resumed their natural human shapes. On her arrival she was kindly received and led into the
castle. When night came, the lion turned into a handsome man, and their wedding was celebrated
with great magnificence. They lived happily together, remained awake at night, and slept in
the daytime. One day he came and said, "To-morrow there is a feast in thy father's house, because
your eldest sister is to be married, and if thou art inclined to go there, my lions shall conduct
thee." She said, "Yes, I should very much like to see my father again," and went thither, accompanied
by the lions. There was great joy when she arrived, for they had all believed that she had
been torn in pieces by the lion, and had long ceased to live.  But she told them what a handsome
husband she had, and how well off she was, remained with them while the wedding-feast lasted,
and then went back again to the forest. When the second daughter was about to be married, and
she was again invited to the wedding, she said to the lion, "This time I will not be alone,
thou must come with me." The lion, however, said that it was too dangerous for him, for if
when there a ray from a burning candle fell on him, he would be changed into a dove, and for
seven years long would have to fly about with the doves. She said, "Ah, but do come with me,
I will take great care of thee, and guard thee from all light." So they went away together,
and took with them their little child as well. She had a chamber built there, so strong and
thick that no ray could pierce through it; in this he was to shut himself up when the candles
were lit for the wedding-feast. But the door was made of green wood which warped and left a
little crack which no one noticed. The wedding was celebrated with magnificence, but when the
procession with all its candles and torches came back from church, and passed by this apartment,
a ray about the breadth of a hair fell on the King's son, and when this ray touched him, he
was transformed in an instant, and when she came in and looked for him, she did not see him,
but a white dove was sitting there. The dove said to her, "For seven years must I fly about
the world, but at every seventh step that you take I will let fall a drop of red blood and
a white feather, and these will show thee the way, and if thou followest the trace thou canst
release me." Thereupon the dove flew out at the door, and she followed him, and at every seventh
step a red drop of blood and a little white feather fell down and showed her the way.

So she went continually further and further in the wide world, never looking about her or resting,
and the seven years were almost past; then she rejoiced and thought that they would soon be
delivered, and yet they were so far from it!  Once when they were thus moving onwards, no little
feather and no drop of red blood fell, and when she raised her eyes the dove had disappeared.
And as she thought to herself, "In this no man can help thee," she climbed up to the sun, and
said to him, "Thou shinest into every crevice, and over every peak, hast thou not seen a white
dove flying?" "No," said the sun, "I have seen none, but I present thee with a casket, open
it when thou art in sorest need." Then she thanked the sun, and went on until evening came
and the moon appeared; she then asked her, "Thou shinest the whole night through, and on every
field and forest, hast thou not seen a white dove flying?" "No," said the moon, "I have seen
no dove, but here I give thee an egg, break it when thou art in great need." She thanked the
moon, and went on until the night wind came up and blew on her, then she said to it, "Thou
blowest over every tree and under every leaf, hast thou not seen a white dove flying?" "No,"
said the night wind, "I have seen none, but I will ask the three other winds, perhaps they
have seen it." The east wind and the west wind came, and had seen nothing, but the south wind
said, "I have seen the white dove, it has flown to the Red Sea, where it has become a lion
again, for the seven years are over, and the lion is there fighting with a dragon; the dragon,
however, is an enchanted princess." The night wind then said to her, "I will advise thee; go
to the Red Sea, on the right bank are some tall reeds, count them, break off the eleventh,
and strike the dragon with it, then the lion will be able to subdue it, and both then will
regain their human form. After that, look round and thou wilt see the griffin which is by the
Red Sea; swing thyself, with thy beloved, on to his back, and the bird will carry you over
the sea to your own home. Here is a nut for thee, when thou are above the center of the sea,
let the nut fall, it will immediately shoot up, and a tall nut-tree will grow out of the water
on which the griffin may rest; for if he cannot rest, he will not be strong enough to carry
you across, and if thou forgettest to throw down the nut, he will let you fall into the sea."

