Bibbs stopped upon the threshold, and with sick and haggard eyes looked slowly from one to
the other until at last his gaze rested upon his father. Then he came and stood before him.

"I'm sorry you've had so much trouble with me," he said, gently. "You won't, any more. I'll
take the job you offered me."

Sheridan did not speak--he stared, astounded and incredulous; and Bibbs had left the room before
any of its occupants uttered a sound, though he went as slowly as he came. Mrs. Sheridan was
the first to move. She went nervously back to the doorway, and then out into the hall. Bibbs
had gone from the house.

Bibbs's mother had a feeling about him then that she had never known before; it was indefinite
and vague, but very poignant--something in her mourned for him uncomprehendingly. She felt
that an awful thing had been done to him, though she did not know what it was. She went up
to his room.

The fire George had built for him was almost smothered under thick, charred ashes of paper.
The lid of his trunk stood open, and the large upper tray, which she remembered to have seen
full of papers and note-books, was empty. And somehow she understood that Bibbs had given up
the mysterious vocation he had hoped to follow--and that he had given it up for ever. She thought
it was the wisest thing he could have done--and yet, for an unknown reason, she sat upon the
bed and wept a little before she went down-stairs.

So Sheridan had his way with Bibbs, all through.

CHAPTER XXIX

As Bibbs came out of the New House, a Sunday trio was in course of passage upon the sidewalk:
an ample young woman, placid of face; a black-clad, thin young man, whose expression was one
of habitual anxiety, habitual wariness and habitual eagerness. He propelled a perambulator
containing the third--and all three were newly cleaned, Sundayfied, and made fit to dine with
the wife's relatives.

"How'd you like for me to be THAT young fella, mamma?" the husband whispered. "He's one of
the sons, and there ain't but two left now."

The wife stared curiously at Bibbs. "Well, I don't know," she returned. "He looks to me like
he had his own troubles."

"I expect he has, like anybody else," said the young husband, "but I guess we could stand a
good deal if we had his money."

"Well, maybe, if you keep on the way you been, baby'll be as well fixed as the Sheridans. You
can't tell." She glanced back at Bibbs, who had turned north. "He walks kind of slow and stooped
over, like."

"So much money in his pockets it makes him sag, I guess," said the young husband, with bitter
admiration.

Mary, happening to glance from a window, saw Bibbs coming, and she started, clasping her hands
together in a sudden alarm. She met him at the door.

"Bibbs!" she cried. "What is the matter? I saw something was terribly wrong when I--You look--"
She paused, and he came in, not lifting his eyes to hers. Always when he crossed that threshold
he had come with his head up and his wistful gaze seeking hers. "Ah, poor boy!" she said, with
a gesture of understanding and pity. "I know what it is!"

He followed her into the room where they always sat, and sank into a chair.

"You needn't tell me," she said. "They've made you give up. Your father's won--you're going
to do what he wants. You've given up."

Still without looking at her, he inclined his head in affirmation.

She gave a little cry of compassion, and came and sat near him. "Bibbs," she said. "I can be
glad of one thing, though it's selfish. I can be glad you came straight to me. It's more to
me than even if you'd come because you were happy." She did not speak again for a little while;
then she said: "Bibbs--dear--could you tell me about it? Do you want to?"

Still he did not look up, but in a voice, shaken and husky he asked her a question so grotesque
that at first she thought she had misunderstood his words.

"Mary," he said, "could you marry me?"

"What did you say, Bibbs?" she asked, quietly.

His tone and attitude did not change. "Will you marry me?"

Both of her hands leaped to her cheeks--she grew red and then white. She rose slowly and moved
backward from him, staring at him, at first incredulously, then with an intense perplexity
more and more luminous in her wide eyes; it was like a spoken question. The room filled with
strangeness in the long silence--the two were so strange to each other. At last she said:

"What made you say that?"

He did not answer.

"Bibbs, look at me!" Her voice was loud and clear. "What made you say that? Look at me!"

He could not look at her, and he could not speak.

"What was it that made you?" she said. "I want you to tell me."

She went closer to him, her eyes ever brighter and wider with that intensity of wonder. "You've
given up--to your father," she said, slowly, "and then you came to ask me--" She broke off.
"Bibbs, do you want me to marry you?"

"Yes," he said, just audibly.

"No!" she cried. "You do not. Then what made you ask me? What is it that's happened?"

"Nothing."

"Wait," she said. "Let me think. It's something that happened since our walk this morning--yes,
since you left me at noon. Something happened that--" She stopped abruptly, with a tremulous
murmur of amazement and dawning comprehension. She remembered that Sibyl had gone to the New House.

Bibbs swallowed painfully and contrived to say, "I do--I do want you to--marry me, if--if--you
could."

She looked at him, and slowly shook her head. "Bibbs, do you--" Her voice was as unsteady as
his--little more than a whisper. "Do you think I'm--in love with you?"

"No," he said.

Somewhere in the still air of the room there was a whispered word; it did not seem to come
from Mary's parted lips, but he was aware of it. "Why?"

"I've had nothing but dreams," Bibbs said, desolately, "but they weren't like that. Sibyl said
no girl could care about me." He smiled faintly, though still he did not look at Mary. "And
when I first came home Edith told me Sibyl was so anxious to marry that she'd have married
ME. She meant it to express Sibyl's extremity, you see. But I hardly needed either of them
to tell me. I hadn't thought of myself as--well, not as particularly captivating!"

Oddly enough, Mary's pallor changed to an angry flush. "Those two!" she exclaimed, sharply;
and then, with thoroughgoing contempt: "Lamhorn! That's like them!" She turned away, went to
the bare little black mantel, and stood leaning upon it. Presently she asked: "WHEN did Mrs.
Roscoe Sheridan say that 'no girl' could care about you?"

"To-day."

Mary drew a deep breath. "I think I'm beginning to understand--a little." She bit her lip;
there was anger in good truth in her eyes and in her voice. "Answer me once more," she said.
"Bibbs, do you know now why I stopped wearing my furs?"

"Yes."

"I thought so! Your sister-in-law told you, didn't she?"

"I--I heard her say--"

"I think I know what happened, now." Mary's breath came fast and her voice shook, but she spoke
rapidly. "You 'heard her say' more than that. You 'heard her say' that we were bitterly poor,
and on that account I tried first to marry your brother--and then--" But now she faltered,
and it was only after a convulsive effort that she was able to go on. "And then--that I tried
to marry--you! You 'heard her say' that--and you believe that I don't care for you and that
'no girl' could care for you--but you think I am in such an 'extremity,' as Sibyl was--that
you-- And so, not wanting me, and believing that I could not want you--except for my 'extremity'--you
took your father's offer and then came to ask me--to marry you! What had I shown you of myself
that could make you--"

Suddenly she sank down, kneeling, with her face buried in her arms upon the lap of a chair,
tears overwhelming her.

"Mary, Mary!" he cried, helplessly. "Oh NO--you--you don't understand."

"I do, though!" she sobbed. "I do!"

He came and stood beside her. "You kill me!" he said. "I can't make it plain. From the first
of your loveliness to me, I was all self. It was always you that gave and I that took. I was
the dependent--I did nothing but lean on you. We always talked of me, not of you. It was all
about my idiotic distresses and troubles. I thought of you as a kind of wonderful being that
had no mortal or human suffering except by sympathy. You seemed to lean down--out of a rosy
cloud--to be kind to me. I never dreamed I could do anything for YOU! I never dreamed you could
need anything to be done for you by anybody. And to-day I heard that--that you--"

"You heard that I needed to marry--some one--anybody--with money," she sobbed. "And you thought
we were so--so desperate--you believed that I had--"

"No!" he said, quickly. "I didn't believe you'd done one kind thing for me--for that. No, no,
no! I knew you'd NEVER thought of me except generously--to give. I said I couldn't make it
plain!" he cried, despairingly.

"Wait!" She lifted her head and extended her hands to him unconsciously, like a child. "Help
me up, Bibbs." Then, when she was once more upon her feet, she wiped her eyes and smiled upon
him ruefully and faintly, but reassuringly, as if to tell him, in that way, that she knew he
had not meant to hurt her. And that smile of hers, so lamentable, but so faithfully friendly,
misted his own eyes, for his shamefacedness lowered them no more.

"Let me tell you what you want to tell me," she said. "You can't, because you can't put it
into words--they are too humiliating for me and you're too gentle to say them. Tell me, though,
isn't it true? You didn't believe that I'd tried to make you fall in love with me--"

"Never! Never for an instant!"

"You didn't believe I'd tried to make you want to marry me--"

"No, no, no!"

"I believe it, Bibbs. You thought that I was fond of you; you knew I cared for you--but you
didn't think I might be--in love with you. But you thought that I might marry you without being
in love with you because you did believe I had tried to marry your brother, and--"

"Mary, I only knew--for the first time--that you--that you were--"

"Were desperately poor," she said. "You can't even say that! Bibbs, it was true: I did try
to make Jim want to marry me. I did!" And she sank down into the chair, weeping bitterly again.
Bibbs was agonized.

"Mary," he groaned, "I didn't know you COULD cry!"

