    "Lord Crewe and Lord Lansdowne have addressed the
    following Whip to the members of the House of Lords: On
    February 15 an address will be moved in the House of
    Lords in answer to His Majesty's Speech. We venture to
    express the hope that Your Majesty will find it possible
    to attend in your place on that day."--Yorkshire
    Evening Post.

We have heard of the Sovereign People, but the Sovereign Peers are new to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In the course of the match, Brelsford, the United
    half-back, and Glennon, the Wednesday forward, were
    ordered off the field for fighting. Upwards of 16,000
    spectators witnessed the match."--Birmingham Post.

Mr. Punch will gladly furnish any of the players, or eligibles amongst the 16,000 spectators,
with the address of a field where fighters will certainly not be "ordered off."

       *       *       *       *       *

"ANIMALS AND ZEPPELIN NOISES.

    SIR,--The dat is affected by all sounds, according to
    its weakness or its strength."

    Morning Paper.

We have often noticed the same thing about the cog.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "TYPIST and Shorthand Clerk.--Required at once for
    invoicing a young lady, accustomed to the drapery trade
    preferred."

    Daily Chronicle.

Not an easy post. Some young ladies are so unaccountable.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Washington, Jany. 17.--Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst the
    suffragette leader now under parole in New York will be
    formally admitted to the United States soon after her
    papers reach Washington. President Wilson is opposed to
    her execution."--Bermuda Colonist.

A merciful man, this WILSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A CONTROVERSY.

(From Our Own Correspondent in America.)

I.

YESTERDAY President WILSON addressed a monster gathering of business men at Ponkapog. He said
that it was a cruel misconception to hold that Americans were without ideals. As a matter of
fact they cherished their ideals far beyond any question of making money and would die rather
than submit to acts which were an outrage on our common humanity. In declaring that there was
such a thing as being too proud to fight he had, of course, meant that there was such a thing
as being only too proud to fight for what was just and right. This was the American attitude,
and he therefore advocated national preparedness which might possibly imply such an increase
in America's naval and military forces as few people except himself had yet dreamt of. At this
point the audience rose en masse and cheered for ten minutes. Nothing could show more clearly
than this speech how intensely critical are the relations between America and Germany over
the Lusitania case. There has been a wild panic on the New York Stock Exchange. A prominent
banker has expressed the opinion that Count BERNSTORFF will receive his passports to-morrow.

II.

Count BERNSTORFF has not called on Mr. LANSING to-day. This is considered a symptom of the
utmost gravity, and the exchange value of the German mark has receded ten points.

III.

Count BERNSTORFF was closeted with Mr. LANSING for two hours this afternoon. Relations are
evidently strained to a very dangerous point, and the worst is feared.

IV.

