But this attitude on his part failed to cloud Pearl's spirits. She had seen men taken with
this not inexplicable shyness before, and she made no effort to rouse Harry from his abstraction
or to lure him from his meditations; femininely, intuitively wise, she left that to time.

But even in her moods of gayety the Black Pearl was never voluble, and her habit of silence
was a factor in maintaining the mystery with which Seagreave's imagination was now beginning
to invest her, and during those winter evenings when she would often sit absolutely motionless
for an hour at a time, her narrow eyes dreaming on the fire, the sphynx look on her face, more
than once he felt impelled to murmur:

     "'The Sphinx is drowsy,
       Her wings are furled:
     Her ear is heavy,
       She broods on the world.
     Who'll tell me my secret,
       The ages have kept?--
     I awaited the seer,
       While they slumbered and slept.'"

Thus, more and more, he saw her as the image of beauty and of mystery, and ever more frequently
he pondered on the nature of the message of the desert. But had he come down to Gallito's cabin
earlier in the evening he would not have found her brooding on the firelight. Usually, she
danced, keeping well in practice. She and Hughie would discuss by the hour new movements and
effects, and not only discuss, but try them, and she and José, who had a light foot, often
gave Gallito the benefit of seeing them in many of the old Spanish dances.

But one evening when Seagreave came down, Pearl was not resting after her exertions, but ran
forward to greet him with unwonted vivacity, and drew him toward a window in a dim corner of
the room, out of earshot of her father and José.

"Oh!" she cried. "Look, look at what they have sent me from the camp for dancing for them.
I had no idea it would be so much." She took a roll of bills from her bosom and showed it to
him. Her cheek was flushed, her eyes were like stars. "Why, even here, even up here," she cried,
"I can make money."

"You look as if you enjoyed making money," he smiled.

She looked up at him as if surprised, and then laughed. "Of course, of course I do. Who doesn't?"
Her touch on the bills was a caress. She seemed to find a joy in the very texture of them.
He never dreamed for a moment that she took a delight in those rather crumpled and dirty bills.
He merely took it for granted that she exulted in the visible expression of appreciation of
her art.

"And what will you do with it?" he asked.

"I will send it to my bank when I can get any letters through, and then when this snowball
is big enough I will invest it."

"In mines?" still idly interested and smiling.

She shook her head. "I leave that to my father, he is a good judge and he is lucky at it, and
my mother is always buying patches of land and trading them off, usually to good advantage.
But my specialty is unset stones. I have some very good ones, really, I have. Oh," with a little
glance over her shoulder toward her father and José, "I will show them to you some day when
José is not around. If he knew I had them he would steal them just for the pleasure of keeping
himself in practice."

"How you love beauty," he said.

"But they are valuable," she said. "Oh, yes, I love them, too. I love to let them fall through
my fingers, to pour them from one hand to another. Sometimes, when I am all alone here in the
cabin, I sit and I open my little black leather bag and take them out and hold them in the
palm of my hand, and I turn them this way and that way just to catch the light, and there is
nothing so beautiful; in all the world there is nothing so beautiful as jewels, except," she
caught herself quickly, "the desert, of course."

He sighed a little and stirred restlessly, the very mention of the desert made him vaguely
uneasy. He had listened to the call of the mountains and obeyed it, and from that moment the
desert, like the world, had no place in his thoughts; but since the night that Pearl had danced
it had remained in his mind, and had become to him as a far horizon. The desert has ever been
a factor in the consciousness of man, not to be excluded, and although Seagreave did not realize
it, the moment had come in which he must reckon with it. He felt the fascination and repulsion
of its impenetrable mystery, of its stark and desolate wastes, whose spell is yet so potent
in the imagination of man, that many have found in its barren horror the very heart of beauty.
He wondered if the uncontaminated winds which blew from out the ages across the vast, empty
spaces murmured a message of greater import than that whispered to him among the mountain tops,
if the wings of light which beat unceasingly above its shifting sands lifted the soul to some
undreamed of realm of eternal morning. Something that slept deep within him stirred faintly;
the old passion to adventure, to explore rose in his heart, his restless, reckless heart, which
had, so he believed, found peace.

The shadow deepened in his eyes, but he suddenly roused from this momentary abstraction to
find that Pearl was still speaking.

"Yes, I love them because they are so beautiful, but I love them, too, because they are valuable."

"Well, there is no question about your making all the money you wish," he said, a slight weariness
in his tone, "thousands and thousands. The world will fling it at you. It will cover you with
jewels."

She smiled, a faint, secretive smile of triumph. Ah, so he recognized that. She had made him
feel and admit that she was one of the few great dancers.

Then, she, too, sighed. "If only," she said, forgetful of him and following out her train of
thought aloud, "if only when I get what I want, I wouldn't always want something else! Did
you ever feel if you could just be free, really free, you wouldn't want anything else in the
world?"

"How could any one be more free than you are?" he laughed down at her.

"I know, I know," she agreed, still speaking wistfully, "but I'd like to be free of myself;
myself is so strange, and there's so many of me." Then the veil of her instinctive reticence
fell over her again and she began to talk of her recent attempts to get about on snow-shoes,
José and Hugh having been her instructors, so far. Harry immediately offered his services,
and she accepted them, agreeing to go out with him the next morning.

And as they talked José glanced at them from time to time, a touch of malicious laughter in
his odd glancing eyes; there were few things that escaped José.

That evening, after Seagreave had gone home, when José and Gallito and Mrs. Thomas and Mrs.
Nitschkan had sat late over their cards, Gallito had risen after a final game, mended the fire,
poured himself a glass of cognac, lighted another cigarette and, stretching himself in an easy-chair,
entered into one of those confidential talks which he occasionally permitted himself with his
chosen cronies. The earlier part of the evening José and Pearl had danced for a time together,
and then Pearl had danced for a time alone and in a manner to please even her father's critical
taste. Now, in commenting on this, he remarked:

"You see the change in my daughter. She is now cheerful, obedient and industrious. When she
came she was none of those things. She is, you see, a good girl at heart, but her mother had
almost ruined her. If men but had the time they should always bring up the children of the
family. It is only in that way that they can ever be a credit to one."

Mrs. Thomas, who had been bending over the stove brewing a pot of coffee which she and Mrs.
Nitschkan drank at all hours of the day and night, raised herself at the utterance of these
revolutionary sentiments and looked at Gallito in grieved and bewildered surprise; but Mrs.
Nitschkan, who had been pouring cream into the cup of steaming coffee which José had just handed
to her, first took a long draught and then remarked with cool impartiality:

"The trouble with you, Gallito, is that you can't bear for nobody, man, woman, child or devil,
to get ahead of you. I guess I know somep'n' about the bringin' up of young ones myself."

Here Mrs. Thomas sighed and shook her head with that exasperated incomprehension which all
women displayed when the subject of Mrs. Nitschkan's children came up for discussion. Educators
discourse much upon the proper environment and training of the young of the human species,
but theories aside, practical results seem rather in favor of casting the bantling on the rocks.
For, in spite of Mrs. Nitschkan's joyous lack of responsibility, her daughters had grown up
the antitheses of herself, thoroughly feminine little creatures, already famous for those womanly
accomplishments for which their mother had ever shown a marked distaste, while the sons were
steady, hard-working, reputable young fellows, always to be depended upon by their employers.

"It's nothing but your pizen luck, Sadie," murmured Mrs. Thomas.

"We must allow that Providence has been kinder to you than most," remarked Gallito sardonically.

"It's a reward," said Mrs. Nitschkan with calm assurance, refilling her pipe with more care
than she had ever bestowed upon her children. "It's 'cause I ain't ever shirked an' left the
Lord to do all my work for me."

At this Mrs. Thomas, too overcome to speak, tottered feebly back from the stove and fell weakly
into a chair.

"No, sir," continued the gypsy with arrogant virtue, "the trouble with all the parents I know,
includin' present company, is that they're too easy. I don't work no claim expectin' to get
nothin' out of it, do I? And I don't bring a lot of kids into the world and spend years teachin'
'em manners--"

She was interrupted here by a brief and scornful laugh from Mrs. Thomas, who, on observing
that her friend was gazing at her earnestly and ominously, hastily converted it into a fit
of coughing.

"Spend years teachin' 'em manners an' sacrifice myself to stay at home and punish 'em when
I might be jantin' 'round myself, not to have 'em turn out a credit to me."

There was a finality about the statements which seemed to admit of no further discussion, but
after José had escorted the two women to their cabin, he had returned for one of those midnight
conferences with Gallito over which they loved to linger, and the Spaniard had again expressed
his satisfaction in Pearl's changed demeanor.

José's laughter pealed to the roof. "You have eyes but for mines and cards, Gallito. Though
the world changes under your nose, you do not see it. The moles of the earth--they are funny!"

"Bah!" casting at him a scornful glance from under his beetling brows, "your eyes see so far,
José, that you see all manner of things which do not exist."

"I have far sight and near sight and the sight which comes to the seventh child," returned
José with pride. "Therefore, seeing what I see, I say my prayers each day, now."

A bleak smile wrinkled Gallito's parchment-like cheeks. "And to whom do you pray, José, your
patron saint, or rather sinner, the Devil?"

José looked shocked. "You are a blasphemer, Gallito," he reproved, and then added piously,
"I say my prayers each day that I may, by example, help Saint Harry."

"And why is Harry in need of your example?" said Gallito, holding up his glass between himself
and the fire and watching the deep reflections of ruby light in the amber liquid.

"It goes against me to see an unequal struggle," sighed José. "He is hanging on desperately
to his ice-peak, but the Devil has almost succeeded in clawing him off."

Gallito frowned. "This talk of yours is nonsense, José; but if there is anything in it, Harry
may understand that any interest he may have in my daughter can lead to nothing. She is a dancer
before she is anything else, it is in her blood. Harry does not and never can understand her;
only one of her own kind can do that. He is by nature a religious; his cabin is the cell of
a monk."

Again José's eerie, malicious laughter echoed through the room.

"Aye, laugh," growled Gallito; "but you see my daughter for the first time. You think because
she smiles at Harry that she loves him; you think because she is the only woman he talks to
that he loves her; you do not know her. She is young, she is beautiful and a dancer. She has
had many lovers ever since she put her hair up, and learned how she could make a fool of a
man with her eyes and her smile, and she has made them pay toll. She always did that from the
first." There was a note of fierce pride in his harsh, brief laughter. "Yes, she would smile
and promise anything with her eyes, but she gave nothing. It is strange"--the old Spaniard,
his austere spirit mellowed by his excellent cognac, fell into a mood of confidential musing,
an indulgence which he rarely permitted himself--"that Hugh, the child of a woman I never saw,
reaches my heart more than my own daughter does. But Pearl is a study to me. I say to myself,
'She cares for nothing but money, applause, admiration,' and yet, even while I say it, I am
not sure; I do not know, I do not know."

Again he admired the glints of firelight reflected in his cognac glass. "But this I do know,
José, she is an actress before she is anything else."

José leered knowingly. "You think only of your daughter," he said. "What about Saint Harry?
He has mad blood in him, too. It is only a few years that he has been a saint; before that
the Devil held full sway over him. And," he added pensively, after a moment's cogitation, "there
are many lessons one learns from the Devil."

"You should know," returned Gallito, with his twisting, sardonic smile.

"Ah, the Devil is not all bad," said José defensively. "One can learn from him the lesson of
perseverance, and perseverance is a virtue."

Gallito waved his hand with a polite gesture. "You know more of him and his lessons than I,
José. I am always ready to grant that." He took another sip of cognac, blew a succession of
smoke wreaths toward the ceiling, and again resumed his midnight philosophizings. "What puzzles
me, José, is what is going to become of us in Heaven. We shall never be content. Content is
a lesson that no one has ever learned. Look at Saint Harry. He has Heaven right here. His time
to himself, enough to live on without working, no women to bother him, your cooking; and it
may be on that that you will win an entrance to Heaven; it will certainly be on nothing else.
But, if, as you say, he is interested in my daughter, he is throwing away all chance of keeping
Paradise."

"Do we not all do that?" said José dismally. "It is because a man cannot conceive of a Heaven
without a woman in it. He thinks in spite of all experience to the contrary that she is what
makes it Heaven."

"Yes, experience counts for nothing," Gallito sighed for himself and his brothers.

But if Seagreave sat silent and absorbed when he came to Gallito's cabin in the evening, it
did not bother Pearl. She was an expert in such symptoms. Sometimes he talked to her in a rather
constrained fashion, but for the most part he sat on the other side of the room, listening
to Hugh's music.

