With respect to Pennsylvania, I cannot do better than point out the work of Proud, entitled
"The History of Pennsylvania, from the original Institution and Settlement of that Province,
under the first Proprietor and Governor, William Penn, in 1681, till after the year 1742,"
by Robert Proud, 2 vols. 8vo, printed at Philadelphia in 1797. This work is deserving of the
especial attention of the reader; it contains a mass of curious documents concerning Penn,
the doctrine of the Quakers, and the character, manners, and customs of the first inhabitants
of Pennsylvania. I need not add that among the most important documents relating to this State
are the works of Penn himself, and those of Franklin.

Part II. (See Revised Statutes, vol. iii.

Appendix H

Summary Of The Qualifications Of Voters In The United States As They Existed In 1832

All the States agree in granting the right of voting at the age of twenty-one. In all of them
it is necessary to have resided for a certain time in the district where the vote is given.
This period varies from three months to two years.

As to the qualification: in the State of Massachusetts it is necessary to have an income of
Pound 3 or a capital of Pound 60. In Rhode Island, a man must possess landed property to the
amount of $133.

In Connecticut, he must have a property which gives an income of $17. A year of service in
the militia also gives the elective privilege.

In New Jersey, an elector must have a property of Pound 50 a year.

In South Carolina and Maryland, the elector must possess fifty acres of land.

In Tennessee, he must possess some property.

In the States of Mississippi, Ohio, Georgia, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New York, the
only necessary qualification for voting is that of paying the taxes; and in most of the States,
to serve in the militia is equivalent to the payment of taxes. In Maine and New Hampshire any
man can vote who is not on the pauper list.

Lastly, in the States of Missouri, Alabama, Illinois, Louisiana, Indiana, Kentucky, and Vermont,
the conditions of voting have no reference to the property of the elector.

I believe there is no other State besides that of North Carolina in which different conditions
are applied to the voting for the Senate and the electing the House of Representatives. The
electors of the former, in this case, should possess in property fifty acres of land; to vote
for the latter, nothing more is required than to pay taxes.

Appendix I

The small number of custom-house officers employed in the United States, compared with the
extent of the coast, renders smuggling very easy; notwithstanding which, it is less practised
than elsewhere, because everybody endeavors to repress it. In America there is no police for
the prevention of fires, and such accidents are more frequent than in Europe; but in general
they are more speedily extinguished, because the surrounding population is prompt in lending
assistance.

Appendix K

It is incorrect to assert that centralization was produced by the French Revolution; the revolution
brought it to perfection, but did not create it. The mania for centralization and government
regulations dates from the time when jurists began to take a share in the government, in the
time of Philippele-Bel; ever since which period they have been on the increase. In the year
1775, M. de Malesherbes, speaking in the name of the Cour des Aides, said to Louis XIV:-- *d

[Footnote d: See "Memoires pour servir a l'Histoire du Droit Public de la France en matiere
d'impots," p. 654, printed at Brussels in 1779.]

". . . Every corporation and every community of citizens retained the right of administering
its own affairs; a right which not only forms part of the primitive constitution of the kingdom,
but has a still higher origin; for it is the right of nature, and of reason. Nevertheless,
your subjects, Sire, have been deprived of it; and we cannot refrain from saying that in this
respect your government has fallen into puerile extremes. From the time when powerful ministers
made it a political principle to prevent the convocation of a national assembly, one consequence
has succeeded another, until the deliberations of the inhabitants of a village are declared
null when they have not been authorized by the Intendant. Of course, if the community has an
expensive undertaking to carry through, it must remain under the control of the sub-delegate
of the Intendant, and, consequently, follow the plan he proposes, employ his favorite workmen,
pay them according to his pleasure; and if an action at law is deemed necessary, the Intendant's
permission must be obtained. The cause must be pleaded before this first tribunal, previous
to its being carried into a public court; and if the opinion of the Intendant is opposed to
that of the inhabitants, or if their adversary enjoys his favor, the community is deprived
of the power of defending its rights. Such are the means, Sire, which have been exerted to
extinguish the municipal spirit in France; and to stifle, if possible, the opinions of the
citizens. The nation may be said to lie under an interdict, and to be in wardship under guardians."
What could be said more to the purpose at the present day, when the Revolution has achieved
what are called its victories in centralization?

In 1789, Jefferson wrote from Paris to one of his friends:--"There is no country where the
mania for over-governing has taken deeper root than in France, or been the source of greater
mischief." (Letter to Madison, August 28, 1789.) The fact is, that for several centuries past
the central power of France has done everything it could to extend central administration;
it has acknowledged no other limits than its own strength. The central power to which the Revolution
gave birth made more rapid advances than any of its predecessors, because it was stronger and
wiser than they had been; Louis XIV committed the welfare of such communities to the caprice
of an intendant; Napoleon left them to that of the Minister. The same principle governed both,
though its consequences were more or less remote.

Appendix L

The immutability of the constitution of France is a necessary consequence of the laws of that
country. To begin with the most important of all the laws, that which decides the order of
succession to the throne; what can be more immutable in its principle than a political order
founded upon the natural succession of father to son? In 1814, Louis XVIII had established
the perpetual law of hereditary succession in favor of his own family. The individuals who
regulated the consequences of the Revolution of 1830 followed his example; they merely established
the perpetuity of the law in favor of another family. In this respect they imitated the Chancellor
Meaupou, who, when he erected the new Parliament upon the ruins of the old, took care to declare
in the same ordinance that the rights of the new magistrates should be as inalienable as those
of their predecessors had been. The laws of 1830, like those of 1814, point out no way of changing
the constitution: and it is evident that the ordinary means of legislation are insufficient
for this purpose. As the King, the Peers, and the Deputies, all derive their authority from
the constitution, these three powers united cannot alter a law by virtue of which alone they
govern. Out of the pale of the constitution they are nothing: where, when, could they take
their stand to effect a change in its provisions? The alternative is clear: either their efforts
are powerless against the charter, which continues to exist in spite of them, in which case
they only reign in the name of the charter; or they succeed in changing the charter, and then,
the law by which they existed being annulled, they themselves cease to exist. By destroying
the charter, they destroy themselves. This is much more evident in the laws of 1830 than in
those of 1814. In 1814, the royal prerogative took its stand above and beyond the constitution;
but in 1830, it was avowedly created by, and dependent on, the constitution. A part, therefore,
of the French constitution is immutable, because it is united to the destiny of a family; and
the body of the constitution is equally immutable, because there appear to be no legal means
of changing it. These remarks are not applicable to England. That country having no written
constitution, who can assert when its constitution is changed?

Appendix M

The most esteemed authors who have written upon the English Constitution agree with each other
in establishing the omnipotence of the Parliament. Delolme says: "It is a fundamental principle
with the English lawyers, that Parliament can do everything except making a woman a man, or
a man a woman." Blackstone expresses himself more in detail, if not more energetically, than
Delolme, in the following terms:--"The power and jurisdiction of Parliament, says Sir Edward
Coke (4 Inst. 36), 'is so transcendent and absolute that it cannot be confined, either for
causes or persons, within any bounds.' And of this High Court, he adds, may be truly said,
'Si antiquitatem spectes, est vetustissima; si dignitatem, est honoratissima; si jurisdictionem,
est capacissima.' It hath sovereign and uncontrollable authority in the making, confirming,
enlarging, restraining, abrogating, repealing, reviving, and expounding of laws, concerning
matters of all possible denominations; ecclesiastical or temporal; civil, military, maritime,
or criminal; this being the place where that absolute despotic power which must, in all governments,
reside somewhere, is intrusted by the constitution of these kingdoms. All mischiefs and grievances,
operations and remedies, that transcend the ordinary course of the laws, are within the reach
of this extraordinary tribunal. It can regulate or new-model the succession to the Crown; as
was done in the reign of Henry VIII and William III. It can alter the established religion
of the land; as was done in a variety of instances in the reigns of King Henry VIII and his
three children. It can change and create afresh even the constitution of the kingdom, and of
parliaments themselves; as was done by the Act of Union and the several statutes for triennial
and septennial elections. It can, in short, do everything that is not naturally impossible
to be done; and, therefore some have not scrupled to call its power, by a figure rather too
bold, the omnipotence of Parliament."

Appendix N

There is no question upon which the American constitutions agree more fully than upon that
of political jurisdiction. All the constitutions which take cognizance of this matter, give
to the House of Delegates the exclusive right of impeachment; excepting only the constitution
of North Carolina, which grants the same privilege to grand juries. (Article 23.) Almost all
the constitutions give the exclusive right of pronouncing sentence to the Senate, or to the
Assembly which occupies its place.

The only punishments which the political tribunals can inflict are removal, or the interdiction
of public functions for the future. There is no other constitution but that of Virginia (p.
152), which enables them to inflict every kind of punishment. The crimes which are subject
to political jurisdiction are, in the federal constitution (Section 4, Art. 1); in that of
Indiana (Art. 3, paragraphs 23 and 24); of New York (Art. 5); of Delaware (Art. 5), high treason,
bribery, and other high crimes or offences. In the Constitution of Massachusetts (Chap. I,
Section 2); that of North Carolina (Art. 23); of Virginia (p. 252), misconduct and maladministration.
In the constitution of New Hampshire (p. 105), corruption, intrigue, and maladministration.
In Vermont (Chap. 2, Art. 24), maladministration. In South Carolina (Art. 5); Kentucky (Art.
5); Tennessee (Art. 4); Ohio (Art. 1, 23, 24); Louisiana (Art. 5); Mississippi (Art. 5); Alabama
(Art. 6); Pennsylvania (Art. 4), crimes committed in the non-performance of official duties.
In the States of Illinois, Georgia, Maine, and Connecticut, no particular offences are specified.

Appendix O

It is true that the powers of Europe may carry on maritime wars with the Union; but there is
always greater facility and less danger in supporting a maritime than a continental war. Maritime
warfare only requires one species of effort. A commercial people which consents to furnish
its government with the necessary funds, is sure to possess a fleet. And it is far easier to
induce a nation to part with its money, almost unconsciously, than to reconcile it to sacrifices
of men and personal efforts. Moreover, defeat by sea rarely compromises the existence or independence
of the people which endures it. As for continental wars, it is evident that the nations of
Europe cannot be formidable in this way to the American Union. It would be very difficult to
transport and maintain in America more than 25,000 soldiers; an army which may be considered
to represent a nation of about 2,000,000 of men. The most populous nation of Europe contending
in this way against the Union, is in the position of a nation of 2,000,000 of inhabitants at
war with one of 12,000,000. Add to this, that America has all its resources within reach, whilst
the European is at 4,000 miles distance from his; and that the immensity of the American continent
would of itself present an insurmountable obstacle to its conquest.

Appendix P

The first American journal appeared in April, 1704, and was published at Boston. See "Collection
of the Historical Society of Massachusetts," vol. vi. p. 66. It would be a mistake to suppose
that the periodical press has always been entirely free in the American colonies: an attempt
was made to establish something analogous to a censorship and preliminary security. Consult
the Legislative Documents of Massachusetts of January 14, 1722. The Committee appointed by
the General Assembly (the legislative body of the province) for the purpose of examining into
circumstances connected with a paper entitled "The New England Courier," expresses its opinion
that "the tendency of the said journal is to turn religion into derision and bring it into
contempt; that it mentions the sacred writers in a profane and irreligious manner; that it
puts malicious interpretations upon the conduct of the ministers of the Gospel; and that the
Government of his Majesty is insulted, and the peace and tranquillity of the province disturbed
by the said journal. The Committee is consequently of opinion that the printer and publisher,
James Franklin, should be forbidden to print and publish the said journal or any other work
in future, without having previously submitted it to the Secretary of the province; and that
the justices of the peace for the county of Suffolk should be commissioned to require bail
of the said James Franklin for his good conduct during the ensuing year." The suggestion of
the Committee was adopted and passed into a law, but the effect of it was null, for the journal
eluded the prohibition by putting the name of Benjamin Franklin instead of James Franklin at
the bottom of its columns, and this manoeuvre was supported by public opinion.

Appendix Q

The Federal Constitution has introduced the jury into the tribunals of the Union in the same
way as the States had introduced it into their own several courts; but as it has not established
any fixed rules for the choice of jurors, the federal courts select them from the ordinary
jury list which each State makes for itself. The laws of the States must therefore be examined
for the theory of the formation of juries. See Story's "Commentaries on the Constitution,"
B. iii. chap. 38, p. 654-659; Sergeant's "Constitutional Law," p. 165. See also the Federal
Laws of the years 1789, 1800, and 1802, upon the subject. For the purpose of thoroughly understanding
the American principles with respect to the formation of juries, I examined the laws of States
at a distance from one another, and the following observations were the result of my inquiries.
In America, all the citizens who exercise the elective franchise have the right of serving
upon a jury. The great State of New York, however, has made a slight difference between the
two privileges, but in a spirit quite contrary to that of the laws of France; for in the State
of New York there are fewer persons eligible as jurymen than there are electors. It may be
said in general that the right of forming part of a jury, like the right of electing representatives,
is open to all the citizens: the exercise of this right, however, is not put indiscriminately
into any hands. Every year a body of municipal or county magistrates--called "selectmen" in
New England, "supervisors" in New York, "trustees" in Ohio, and "sheriffs of the parish" in
Louisiana--choose for each county a certain number of citizens who have the right of serving
as jurymen, and who are supposed to be capable of exercising their functions. These magistrates,
being themselves elective, excite no distrust; their powers, like those of most republican
magistrates, are very extensive and very arbitrary, and they frequently make use of them to
remove unworthy or incompetent jurymen. The names of the jurymen thus chosen are transmitted
to the County Court; and the jury who have to decide any affair are drawn by lot from the whole
list of names. The Americans have contrived in every way to make the common people eligible
to the jury, and to render the service as little onerous as possible. The sessions are held
in the chief town of every county, and the jury are indemnified for their attendance either
by the State or the parties concerned. They receive in general a dollar per day, besides their
travelling expenses. In America, the being placed upon the jury is looked upon as a burden,
but it is a burden which is very supportable. See Brevard's "Digest of the Public Statute Law
of South Carolina," vol. i. pp. 446 and 454, vol. ii. pp. 218 and 338; "The General Laws of
Massachusetts, revised and published by authority of the Legislature," vol. ii. pp. 187 and
331; "The Revised Statutes of the State of New York," vol. ii. pp. 411, 643, 717, 720; "The
Statute Law of the State of Tennessee," vol. i. p. 209; "Acts of the State of Ohio," pp. 95
and 210; and "Digeste general des Actes de la Legislature de la Louisiane."

Appendix R

If we attentively examine the constitution of the jury as introduced into civil proceedings
in England, we shall readily perceive that the jurors are under the immediate control of the
judge. It is true that the verdict of the jury, in civil as well as in criminal cases, comprises
the question of fact and the question of right in the same reply; thus--a house is claimed
by Peter as having been purchased by him: this is the fact to be decided. The defendant puts
in a plea of incompetency on the part of the vendor: this is the legal question to be resolved.
But the jury do not enjoy the same character of infallibility in civil cases, according to
the practice of the English courts, as they do in criminal cases. The judge may refuse to receive
the verdict; and even after the first trial has taken place, a second or new trial may be awarded
by the Court. See Blackstone's "Commentaries," book iii. ch. 24.

Appendix S

I find in my travelling journal a passage which may serve to convey a more complete notion
of the trials to which the women of America, who consent to follow their husbands into the
wilds, are often subjected. This description has nothing to recommend it to the reader but
its strict accuracy:

". . . From time to time we come to fresh clearings; all these places are alike; I shall describe
the one at which we have halted to-night, for it will serve to remind me of all the others.

"The bell which the pioneers hang round the necks of their cattle, in order to find them again
in the woods, announced our approach to a clearing, when we were yet a long way off; and we
soon afterwards heard the stroke of the hatchet, hewing down the trees of the forest. As we
came nearer, traces of destruction marked the presence of civilized man; the road was strewn
with shattered boughs; trunks of trees, half consumed by fire, or cleft by the wedge, were
still standing in the track we were following. We continued to proceed till we reached a wood
in which all the trees seemed to have been suddenly struck dead; in the height of summer their
boughs were as leafless as in winter; and upon closer examination we found that a deep circle
had been cut round the bark, which, by stopping the circulation of the sap, soon kills the
tree. We were informed that this is commonly the first thing a pioneer does; as he cannot in
the first year cut down all the trees which cover his new parcel of land, he sows Indian corn
under their branches, and puts the trees to death in order to prevent them from injuring his
crop. Beyond this field, at present imperfectly traced out, we suddenly came upon the cabin
of its owner, situated in the centre of a plot of ground more carefully cultivated than the
rest, but where man was still waging unequal warfare with the forest; there the trees were
cut down, but their roots were not removed, and the trunks still encumbered the ground which
they so recently shaded. Around these dry blocks, wheat, suckers of trees, and plants of every
kind, grow and intertwine in all the luxuriance of wild, untutored nature. Amidst this vigorous
and various vegetation stands the house of the pioneer, or, as they call it, the log house.
Like the ground about it, this rustic dwelling bore marks of recent and hasty labor; its length
seemed not to exceed thirty feet, its height fifteen; the walls as well as the roof were formed
of rough trunks of trees, between which a little moss and clay had been inserted to keep out
the cold and rain.

"As night was coming on, we determined to ask the master of the log house for a lodging. At
the sound of our footsteps, the children who were playing amongst the scattered branches sprang
up and ran towards the house, as if they were frightened at the sight of man; whilst two large
dogs, almost wild, with ears erect and outstretched nose, came growling out of their hut, to
cover the retreat of their young masters. The pioneer himself made his appearance at the door
of his dwelling; he looked at us with a rapid and inquisitive glance, made a sign to the dogs
to go into the house, and set them the example, without betraying either curiosity or apprehension
at our arrival.

