No. 17.] Saturday, February 23. 1850. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *{257}

CONTENTS.

NOTES:--Page
  Alfred's Orosius, by R.T. Hampson 257
  Folk Lore--Omens from Cattle--Horse's Head--Rush-bearings 258
  On Authors and Books, No. 5., by Bolton Corney 259
  Plagiarisms, or Parallel Passages, No. 2. 260
  St. Antholin's 260

QUERIES:--
  College Salting, by Rev. Dr. Maitland 261
  A few Dodo Queries, by H.E. Strictland 261
  Coleridge's Christabel, Byron's Lara: Tablet to Napoleon 262
  Minor Queries:--Howkey or Horkey--Lord Bacon's Psalms--Treatise of
    Equivocation 263

REPLIES:--
  Etymology of Armagh, by Rev. Dr. Todd 264
  William Hasse and his Poems, by E.F. Rimbault, LL.D. 265
  Beaver Hats--Pisan, by T. Hudson Turner 266
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Norman Pedigrees--Translation of Ælian--Ave
    Trici--Daysman--Saveguard--Calamity--Zero--Complutensian
    Polyglot--Sir W. Rider--Pokership--Havior, Heavier or Hever--Sir W.
    Hamilton--Dr. Johnson's Library 266

MISCELLANIES:--
  Etymology of News--The Golden Age 270

MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c. 270
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted 271
  Notices to Correspondents 271
  Advertisements 271

       *       *       *       *       *

KING ALFRED'S GEOGRAPHY OF EUROPE.

The sketch of Europe, which our illustrious Alfred has inserted in his translation of Orosius,
is justly considered, both here and on the Continent, as a valuable fragment of antiquity[1];
and I am sorry that I can commend little more than the pains taken by his translators, the
celebrated Daines Barrington and Dr. Ingram, to make it available to ordinary readers. The
learned judge had very good intentions, but his knowledge of Anglo-Saxon was not equal to the
task. Dr. Ingram professedly applied himself to correct both Alfred's text and Barrington's
version, so far as relates to the description of Europe; but in two instances, occurring in
one passage, he has adopted the judge's mistake of proper names for common nouns. I do not
call attention to the circumstance merely as a literary curiosity, but to preserve the royal
geographer from liability to imputations of extraordinary ignorance of his subject, and also
to show the accuracy of his delineation of Europe at that interesting epoch, whence the principal
states of Europe must date their establishment.

King Alfred, mentioning the seat of the Obotriti, or Obotritæ, as they are sometimes named,
a Venedic nation, who, in the 9th century, occupied what is now the duchy of Mecklenburg, calls
them Apdrede, and says--"Be nor than him is apdrede, and cast north wylte the man æfeldan hæt."[2]

Barrington translates the words thus:--"To the north is Aprede, and to the north east the wolds
which are called Æfeldan."[3]

Dr. Ingram has the following variation:--"And to the east north are the wolds which are called
Heath Wolds."[4] To the word wolds he appends a note:--"Wylte. See on this word a note hereafter."
Very well; the promised note is to justify the metamorphosis of the warlike tribe, known in
the annals and chronicles of the 9th century as the Wilti, Wilzi, Weleti, and Welatibi, into
heaths and wolds. Thirty pages further on there is a note by J. Reinhold Forster, the naturalist
and navigator, who wrote it for Barrington in full confidence that the translation was correct:--"The
Æfeldan," he says, "are, as king Alfred calls them, wolds; there are at present in the middle
part of Jutland, large tracts of high moors, covered with heath only."

Of wylte, Dr. Ingram writes:--"This word has never been correctly explained; its original signification
is the same, whether written felds, fields, velts, welds, wilds, wylte, wealds, walds, walz,
wolds, &c. &c." And on heath, he says:--"Mr. Forster seems to have read Hæfeldan (or Hæthfeldan),
which indeed, I find in the Junian MS. inserted as a various reading by Dr. Marshall (MSS.
Jun. 15.). It also occurs, further on in the MS., without any various reading. I have therefore
inserted it in the text." {258}

Dr. Marshall seems to have understood the passage. What King Alfred says and means is this:--"On
the north are the Apdrede (Obotritæ), and on the north east of them are the Wylte, who are
called Hæfeldi."

The anonymous Saxon Poet, who wrote the life of Charlemagne, gives the same situation as Alfred
to the Wilti:--

  "Gens est Slavorum Wilti cognomine dicta,
  Proxima litoribus quæ possidet arva supremis
  Jungit ubi oceano proprios Germania fines."[5]

Helmold says that they inhabited the part of the coast opposite to the island of Rugen; and
hereabouts Adam of Bremen places the Heveldi, and many other Slavonic tribes.[6] I am not aware
that any other author than Alfred says, that the Wilti and Heveldi were the same people; but
the fact is probable. The Heveldi are of rare occurrence, but not so the Wilti.[7] Ptolemy
calls them [Greek: Beltai]--Veltæ or Weltæ--and places them in Prussian Pomerania, between
the Vistula and Niemen. Eginhard says that "they are Slavonians who, in our manner, are called
Wilsi, but in their own language, Welatibi."[8] Their country was called Wilcia,[9] and, as
a branch of them were settled in Batavia about 560, it does not seem very improbable that from
them were derived the Wilsæton of the Anglo-Saxon chronicles, meaning the Wilts seated, or
settlers in Wilts-shire. The name, as Eginhard has noticed, is Slavic, and is an adoption of
welot or weolot, a giant, to denote the strength and fierceness which rendered them formidable
neighbours. Heveldi seems to be the same word made emphatic with a foreign addition.

Two other names have been given much trouble to the translators, as well as to Mr. Forster.
These are, Mægtha Land and Horiti or Horithi, for both occur, and the latter is not written
with the letter thorn, but with a distinct t and h. Alfred has, unquestionably, met with the
Slavic gorod, which so frequesntly occurs as the termination of the names of cities in the
region where he indicates the seat of his Horiti to be. It signifies a city, and is an etymological
equivalent of Goth. gards, a house, Lat. cors, cortis; O.N. gardr, a district, A.-Sax. geard,
whence our yard. The Polish form is grodz, and the Sorabic, hrodz. He places the Horiti to
the east of the Slavi Dalamanti, who occupied the district north east of Moravia, with the
Surpe, that is, Serbi, Servi, on their north, and the Sisle, Slusli, another Slavonic people,
on the west. This appears to be the site possessed by the Hunnic founders of Kiow. In Helmold,
Chunigord, the city or station of the Huns, is the name of the part of Russia containing Kiow.[10]

To the north of Horiti, says Alfred, is Mægtha Land.--A Finnic tribe, called Magyar, were settled
in the 9th century in Mazovia, whence a part of them descended into Hungary. According to Mr.
Forster, Mazovia has been called Magan Land; but I can find no trace of that name. I can easily
conceive, however, that Magyar and Land might become, in Saxon copying, Mægtha Land, for the
country of the Magyar. Elsewhere, Alfred uses Mægtha Land, the land of the Medes, for Persia.

Is there any other printed copy of the Saxon Orosius than Barrington's? for that forbids confidence
by a number of needless and unauthorised alterations in most of the pages.

R.T. HAMPSON

    [1] "La précieuse géographie d'Alfred, roi d'Angleterre."--Le
    Comte J. Gräberg. La Scandinavie Vengée, p. 36.

    [2] Cotton MSS., Tiberius, b. i. fol. 12b.

    [3] Transl. of Orosius, p. 8.

    [4] Inaugural Lecture, p. 72.

    [5] Vita Karoli Magni, ann. 789.

    [6] "Sunt et alii Slavorum populi qui inter Albiam et
    Oderam degunt, sicut Heveldi, qui juxta Haliolam fluvium, et
    Doxani, Liubuzzi, Wilini, et Stoderani, cum multis aliis."--Hist.
    Eccl. p. 47, 48.

    [7] Annales Sangall. Brev., ann. 789.--Ann. Lauresham, &c.

    [8] Vit. Kar. Mag. and Annal. Francor., ann. 822.

    [9] Annal. Petav., ann 789.

    [10] Chron. Slavorum, l. i, c. 2.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Omens from Cattle.--I forward to you a Note, which, many years ago, I inserted in my interleaved
Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities, vol. ii. p. 519. 4to., in the hope that, as the
subject interested me then, it may not prove uninteresting to some now:--

    "A bad omen seems to be drawn from an ox or cow breaking into
    a garden. Though I laugh at the superstition, the omen was
    painfully fulfilled in my case.

    "About the middle of March, 1843, some cattle were driven
    close to my house; and, the back door being open, three
    got into our little bit of garden, and trampled it. When our
    school-drudge came in the afternoon, and asked the cause of
    the confusion, she expressed great sorrow and apprehension on
    being told--said it was a bad sign--and that we should hear of
    three deaths within the next six months. Alas! in April, we
    heard of dear J----'s murder; a fortnight after, A---- died;
    and to-morrow, August 10th, I am to attend the funeral of my
    excellent son-in-law.

    "I have just heard of the same omen from another quarter."

This was added the next day:--

    "But what is still more remarkable is, that when I went down
    to Mr. ----'s burial, and was mentioning the superstition,
    they told me that, while he was lying ill, a cow got into the
    front garden, and was driven out with great difficulty."

L.S.

The Horse's Head--Rush-bearings.--The account of the Welch custom of the "Grey Mare" in a late
Number reminded me of something very similar in Cheshire. In the parish of Lynn it is customary,
for a week or ten days before the 5th {259} of November, for the skeleton of a horse's head,
dressed up with ribbons, &c., having glass eyes inserted in the sockets, and mounted on a short
pole by way of handle, to be carried by a man underneath, covered with a horse-cloth. There
is generally a chain attached to the nose, which is held by a second man, and they are attended
by several others. In houses to which they can gain access, they go through some kind of performance,
the man with the chain telling the horse to rear, open its mouth, &c. Their object, of course,
is to obtain money. The horse will sometimes seize persons, and hold them fast till they pay
for being set free; but he is generally very peaceable,--for in case of resistance being offered,
his companions frequently take flight, and leave the poor horse to fight it out. I could never
learn the origin of this strange custom. I remember, when very young, having a perfect horror
of meeting this animal in the dark.

Another custom, which I suppose prevails in some other places, is the "Rush-bearing." At the
annual Wakes a large quantity of rushes are collected together, and loaded on a cart, almost
to the height of a load of hay. They are bound on the cart, and cut evenly at each end. On
the Saturday evening a number of men sit on the top of the rushes, holding garlands of artificial
flowers, tinsel, &c. The cart is drawn round the parish by three or four spirited horses, decked
out with ribbons,--the collars being surrounded with small bells. It is attended by morris-dancers,
dressed in strange style,--men in women's clothes, &c. One big man in woman's clothes, with
his face blacked, has a belt round his waist, to which is attached a large bell, and carries
a ladle, in which he collects money from the spectators. The company stop and dance at the
principal public-houses in their route, and then proceed to the parish church(!), where the
rushes are deposited, and the garlands hung up very conspicuously, to remain till the next
year. I believe a custom somewhat similar exists in the adjoining parish of Warburton, but
not carried out in such grand style.

It would be very interesting if your correspondents in different parts of the country would
send accounts of these relics of the barbarous ages.

JULIUS.

Runcorn, Feb. 13. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON AUTHORS AND BOOKS, NO. 5.

As a writer of dedications, Samuel Johnson was the giant of his time. He once said to Boswell,
the subject arising at a dinner-party, "Why, I have dedicated to the royal family all round,"--and
the honest chronicler proves that he spoke advisedly.

Compositions of this nature admit much variety of character. A dedication may be the pure homage
which we owe to merit, or the expression of gratitude for favours received, or a memorial of
cherished friendship; and such dedications, in point of motive, are beyond the reach of censure--I
may fairly assert, are very commendable. Nevertheless, Johnson left no compositions of either
class: "the loftiness of his mind," as Boswell gravely states, "prevented him from ever dedicating
in his own person."

A more equivocal sort of dedication also prevailed. A book was supposed to require the prefix
of some eminent name as its patron, in order to ensure its success. Now the author, though
very capable of writing with propriety on his chosen theme, might be unequal to the courtly
style which dedicators were wont to display, and as the complement was to be returned substantially,
he might be tempted to employ a superior artist on the occasion. It was chiefly under such
circumstances that the powers of Johnson were called into action. By what arguments the stern
moralist would have endeavoured to justify the deception, for it deserves no better name, is
more than I can undertake to decide, and I submit the query to his enthusiastic admirers.

To the dedications enumerated by the faithful Boswell, and by his sharp-sighted editors, Malone
and Croker, I have to announce on internal evidence, a gorgeous addition! It is the dedication
to Edward Augustus, Duke of York, of An Introduction to Geometry, by William Payne, London:
T. Payne, at the Mews Gate, 1767. 4º., 1768. 8º. I transcribe it literatim. It wants no comment:--

    "TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF YORK.

    "SIR,

    "They who are permitted to prefix the names of princes to
    treatises of science generally enjoy the protection of a
    patron, without fearing the censure of a judge.

    "The honour of approaching your royal highness has given
    me many opportunities of knowing, that the work which I now
    presume to offer will not partake of the usual security.
    For as the knowledge which your royal highness has already
    acquired of GEOMETRY extends beyond the limits of an
    introduction. I expect not to inform you; I shall be happy
    if I merit your approbation.

    "An address to such a patron admits no recommendation of the
    science. It is superfluous to tell your royal highness that
    GEOMETRY is the primary and fundamental art of life; that its
    effects are extended through the principal operations of human
    skill; that it conducts the soldier in the field, and the
    seaman in the ocean; that it gives strength to the fortress,
    and elegance to the palace. To your royal highness all this
    is already known; GEOMETRY is secure of your regard, and your
    opinion of its usefulness and value has sufficiently appeared,
    by the condescension in which you have been pleased to honour
    {260} one who has so little pretension to the notice of
    princes, as

    "Sir,
      "Your royal highnesses [sic]'
        "Most obliged,
          "Most obedient,
            "And most humble servant,
              "WILLIAM PAYNE."

A short preface follows, which bears marks of reparation. It may have received some touches
from the same masterly hand.

The external evidence in favour of the ascription of the above piece to Johnson, if slight
in itself, is not devoid of significance. He had dedicated a book for the same author, which
book was also published by Mr. Thomas Payne, who was his brother, in 1756.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAGIARISMS, OR PARALLEL PASSAGES. NO. 2.

[CONTINUED FROM NO. 11.
    494.

  "In her first passions woman loves her lover,
  In all the others all she loves is love,
  Which grows a habit she can ne'er get over,
  And fits her loosely--like an easy glove," etc.

  Don Juan, canto iii. st. iii.

There is no note on this passage; but on the concluding lines of the very next stanza,

  "Although, no doubt, her first of love affairs
  Is that to which her heart is wholly granted;
  Yet there are some, they say, who have had none,
  But those who have ne'er end with only one,

we have the following editorial comment:--"These two lines are a versification of a saying
of Montaigne." (!!!) The saying is not by Montaigne, but by La Rochefoucauld:--

    "On peut trouver des femmes qui n'ont jamais eu de galanterie;
    mais il est rare d'en trouver qui n'en aient jamais eu
    qu'une."--Max. 73.

Byron borrows the same idea again:--

    "Writing grows a habit, like a woman's gallantry. There are
    women who have had no intrigue, but few who have had but one
    only; so there are millions of men who have never written a
    book, but few who have written only one."--Observations upon
    an Article in Blackwood's Magazine; Byron's Works, vol. xv.
    p. 87, Moore's Edition, 17 vols duod. London, 1833.

Both the silence of the author, and the blunder of his editor, seem to me to prove that Les
Maximes are not as generally known and studied as they deserve to be.

MELANION.

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. ANTHOLIN'S.

Your correspondent MR. RIMBAULT (No. 12.) has made rather a grave charge against my predecessors
in office as churchwardens and overseers of this parish; and although, I regret to say, such
accusations of unjust stewardship and dereliction of duty are frequently and with justice imputed
to some parish officers, yet I am happy to be able, in this instance, to remove the stigma
which would otherwise attach to those of St. Antholin. The churchwardens' accounts are in good
preservation, and present (in an unbroken series) the parish expenditure for nearly three centuries.

Mr. Rimbault has doubtless been misled by some error in the description of the MSS. in Mr.
Thorpe's catalogue (as advertised by him for sale), which were probably merely extracts from
the original records.

The first volume commences with the year 1574, and finishes in 1708; the accounts are all written
at the time of their respective dates, and regularly signed by the auditors then and there
present as correct.

I have made numerous extracts from these interesting documents, and notes thereon, which I
shall at some future time be happy to lay before your readers, if you should consider them
of sufficient importance.

As a voucher for what I have stated with regard to their existence, and to give some idea of
their general character, I have selected (at random) a few items from the year 1580-1:--

    "The Accompte of Henrie Jaye, Churchwarden of the Parishe of
    St. Antholyne, from the feaste of the Anunciacon of our Ladye
    in Anno 1580 unto the same feaste followinge in Anno 1581."

Among the "receaittes" we have--

  "R'd of Mr. Thorowgoode for an olde font stone,
    by the consente of a vestrie           v's iiij'd

  "R'd for the clothe of bodkine[11] y't Ser Roger
    Marten hade before in keppinge, and now
    sold by the consente of a vestry and our
    mynnister                      iij'll vj's viij'd

"The Payments as followithe:--

  "P'd to the wife of John Bakone gwder of the
    Lazer cotte at Myle End[12] in full of her due {261}
    for keppinge of Evan Redde y't was Mr.
    Hariots mane till his departtur and for his
    Shete and Burialle as dothe apere     xl's viij'd

  "P'd for makinge of the Longe pillowe & the
    pulpit clothe                                ij's

  "P'd for a yard and a nale of fustane for the same
    pillowe                                     xvj'd

  "P'd for silke to the same pillowe            xvj'd

  "P'd for xj'li of fethers for the same pillowe, at
    v'd                                  iiij's vij'd

  "P'd for brede and beer that day the quen cam
    in                                          xij'd

  "P'd for candells and mendinge the baldrocke[13]  vj'd

  "P'd for paynttinge y'e stafe of the survayer      iij'd

  "P'd for mendynge the lytell bell             iij's

  "Pd to Mr. Sanders for the yearly rent of the
    Laystall and skowringe the harnes[14] for
    his yer                              iij's viij'd

  "P'd to Mr. Wright for the makinge of the Cloke[15]
    mor than he gatheride, agred one at the laste
    vestrie                                    xvij's

  "P'd to Peter Medcalfe for mending the Cloke
    when it neade due at o'r Ladies Daye laste
    past in Anno 1581                           iij's

  "P'd for entringe this account                 xx'd."

W.C., JUNIOR,

Overseer of St. Antholin, 1850.

    [11] Brodekine. A richly-gilt stuff.

    [12] It appears from an entry in the preceding year, that this
    man was first sent to "Sentt Thomas Spittell in Soughwork," when
    it was discovered that he was afflicted with the leprosy, or some
    cutaneous disease, and immediately removed to the Lazar-house at
    Mile End, it being strictly forbidden that such cases should
    remain in the hospitals. These lazar-houses were built away from
    the town; one was the Lock Hospital, in Southwark; one at
    Kingsland, another at Knightsbridge, and that mentioned above
    between Mile End and Stratford. The laws were very strict in the
    expulsion of leprous people from the city; and if they attempted
    to force their way into the hospitals, they were bound fast to
    horses, and dragged away to the lazar-houses.

    [13] The baldricke was the garter and buckle by means of
    which the clapper was suspended inside the bell.

    [14] Harnes, or armour, which perhaps hung over some of the
    monuments in the church.

    [15] It was about this time that clocks began to be generally
    used in churches (although of a much earlier invention); and in
    subsequent years we have several items of expenditure connected
    with that above mentioned. In 1595:--

      "Paid for a small bell for the watche        iiij's

      "Paid to the smith for Iron worke to it          xx'd

      "Paid for a waight for the Clocke wayinge
        36'lb and for a ringe of Iron                   v's."

    Still, however, the hour-glass was used at the pulpit-desk, to
    determine the length the parson should go in his discourse; and
    xij'd for a new hour-glass frequently occurs.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

COLLEGE SALTING.

Mr. Editor.--If your very valuable work had existed in October, 1847, when I published in the
British Magazine a part of Archibishop Whitgift's accounts relative to his pupils while he
was Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, I should certainly have applied to you for assistance.

In several of the accounts there is a charge for the pupil's "salting;" and after consulting
gentlemen more accurately informed with regard to the customs of the university than myself,
I was obliged to append a note to the word, when it occurred for the first time in the account
of Lord Edward Zouch, in which I said, "I must confess my inability to explain this word; and
do not know whether it may be worth while to state that, on my mentioning it to a gentleman,
once a fellow-commoner of the college, he told me, that when, as a freshman, he was getting
his gown from the maker, he made some remark on the long strips of sleeve by which such gowns
are distinguished, and was told that they were called 'salt-bags,' but he could not learn why;
and an Oxford friend tells me, that going to the buttery to drink salt and water was part of
the form of his admission.... This nobleman's (i.e. Lord Edward Zouch's) amounted to 4s., and
that of the Earl of Cumberland to 3s. 4d., while in other cases it was as low as 8d." To this
I added the suggestion that it was probably some fee, or expense, which varied according to
the rank of the parties. It afterwards occurred to me that this "salting" was, perhaps, some
entertainment given by the new-comer, from and after which he ceased to be "fresh;" and that
while we seem to have lost the "salting" both really and nominally, we retain the word to which
it has reference.

Be this as it may, my attention has just now been recalled to the question by my accidentally
meeting with one of Owen's epigrams, which shows that in his time there was some sort of salting
at Oxford, and also of peppering at Winchester. As I doubt not that you have readers well acquainted
with the customs of both these seats of learning, perhaps some may be good enough to afford
information. Owen was at Oxford not many years after Whitgift had been Master of Trinity at
Cambridge, if (as Wood states) he took his bachelor's degree in 1590. The epigram is as follows:--

  "Oxoniæ salsus (juvenis tum) more vetusto;
    Wintoniæque (puer tum) piperatus eram.
  Si quid inest nostro piperisve salisve libello,
    Oxoniense sal est, Wintoniense piper."

It is No. 64 in that book of epigrams which Owen inscribed "Ad Carolum Eboracensem, fratrem
Principis, filium Regis," p. 205, edit. Elz, 1628. 12mo. I give this full reference in order
to express my most hearty sympathy with the righteous indignation of my highly respected friend,
your correspondent "L.S." (No. 15 p. 230.), against imperfect references. I do not, however,
agree with him in thinking it fortunate that he is not a "despotic monarch;" on the contrary,
now that I have not to take up verses, or construe Greek to him, I should like it of all things;
and I am sure the world would be much the better for it.

S.R. MAITLAND.

Gloucester, Feb. 18. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FEW DODO QUERIES.

The discovery and speedy extinction of that extraordinary bird the DODO, belongs rather to
{262} human history than to pure zoology, and I therefore hope that a few Queries relating
to this curious subject will be admissible into your publication. I have already, in the work
entitled The Dodo and its Kindred, and in the Supplementary notices inserted last year in the
Annals and Magazine of Natural History (ser. 2. vol. iii. pp. 136, 259; vol. iv. p. 335), endeavoured
to collect together the omne scitum of the Dodo-history, but I am satisfied that the omne scibile
is not yet attained.

