     "There is a cauld at the mouth of the Leader water where it
     falls into the Tweed, which salmon never could spring over;
     this cauld I have lately had measured by a mason most
     carefully, and its height varies from five and a half to six
     feet from the level above to the level below it, according as
     the Tweed, into which the Leader falls, is more or less
     affected by the rains. Hundreds of salmon formerly attempted to
     spring over this low cauld, but none could ever achieve the
     leap; so that a salmon in the Leader water was formerly a thing
     unheard of. The proprietors of the upper water have made an
     opening in this cauld of late years, giving the owner of the
     mill some recompense, so that salmon now ascend freely. Large
     fish can spring much higher than small ones; but their powers
     are limited or augmented according to the depth of water they
     spring from. They rise rapidly from the very bottom to the
     surface of the water, by rowing and sculling as it were with
     fins and tail, and this powerful impetus bears them upwards in
     the air. It is probably owing to a want of sufficient depth in
     the pool below the Leader water cauld, that prevented the fish
     from clearing it; because I know an instance where salmon have
     cleared a cauld of six feet belonging to Lord Sudely, who
     lately caused it to be measured for my satisfaction, though
     they were but few out of the numerous fish that attempted it
     that were able to do so. I conceive, however, that very large
     fish could leap much higher."--P. 12.

We believe that a good deal of the contrariety of opinion which prevails on this subject, arises
from anglers and other men confounding an inclined plane with a perpendicular height. Salmon
will assuredly overcome a prodigious force of descending water,--a roaring turmoil, which presents
from below the aspect of a fall, but consists in reality of separate ledges massed together
into one, when "floods lift up their voices." We are sorry to say, however, that the entire
practice of angling is pervaded by a system of inaccuracy, exaggeration, and self-deceit, which
is truly humiliating. There is consequently no period in the life of a young person which ought
to be more sedulously superintended by parents and guardians, than that in which he is first
allowed to plant himself by the rivers of waters. The most wonderful feature, however, in the
leaping of salmon is not so much the height to which they spring, as the ease, elegance, and
certainty, with which, while ascending small cataracts, they make their upward movements. For
example, near Oykel bridge in Sutherland, there is a rocky interruption to the more ordinary
current of the river, where the water is contained, as it were, in stages of pots or little
caldrons, over the lower edge of each of which it dances downwards in the form of a short perpendicular
fall. From a neighbouring bank by the river side, the movements of the aspiring fish may be
distinctly seen. When a grilse has made his way to the foot of one of these falls, (which he
never could have ascended before, although he must have descended it in childhood on his seaward
way,) without a moment's doubt or hesitation he darts into the air, and throws himself head-foremost
into the little basin above, to the bottom of which he instantly descends. Nothing can be more
curious than the air of nonchalance with which they drop into these watery chambers, as if
they knew their dimensions to an inch, and had been in the habit of sleeping in them every
night. Now, from what has been ascertained of the natural history of the species, although
the adult salmon of the Oykel must have previously made the leap at least once before, no fresh-run
grilse could have ever done so; and yet, during suitable weather in the summer season, they
are sometimes seen springing along with all the grace and agility of a troop of voltigeurs.
Their object of course is to rest themselves for a short time, before leaping into the second
range from the ground floor. But this innocent intention is too often interfered with; for
a sharp-sighted Highlander, stationed on the bank above, immediately descends with landing-net
in hand, and scoops them out of their natural caldron, with a view to their being speedily
transferred to another of more artificial structure--the chief difference, however, consisting
in the higher temperature of the water.

"Salmon," says Mr Scrope, "are led by instinct to select such places for depositing their spawn
as are the least likely to be affected by the floods. These are the broad parts of the river,
where the water runs swift and shallow, and has a free passage over an even bed. There they
either select an old spawning place, a sort of trough left in the channel, or form a fresh
one. They are not fond of working in new loose channels, which would be liable to be removed
by a slight flood, to the destruction of their spawn. The spawning bed is made by the female.
Some have fancied that the elongation of the lower jaw in the male, which is somewhat in the
form of a crook, is designed by nature to enable him to excavate the spawning trough. Certainly
it is difficult to divine what may be the use of this very ugly excrescence; but observation
has proved that this idea is a fallacy, and that the male never assists in making the spawning
place: and, indeed, if he did so he could not possibly make use of the elongation in question
for that purpose, which springs from the lower jaw, and bends inwards towards the throat. When
the female commences making her spawning bed, she generally comes after sunset, and goes off
in the morning; she works up the gravel with her snout, her head pointing against the stream,
as my fisherman has clearly and unequivocally witnessed, and she arranges the position of the
loose gravel with her tail. When this is done, the male makes his appearance in the evenings,
according to the usage of the female. He then remains close by her, on the side on which the
water is deepest."--P. 15.

During this crisis trout collect below to devour such portions of the spawn as float down the
river, and parr are frequently seen hovering in and around the trough. All these parr are salmon
fry of the male sex, in a state of maturity; and if the old gentleman chances to be killed,
or driven away, without having provided an assistant or successor, the "two-year-olds" perform
the functions of paternity. This circumstance, though overlooked by modern naturalists till
the days of Shaw, (not the old compiling doctor of the British Museum, but the more practical
"keeper" of Drumlanrig,) was known and described by Willoughby in the seventeenth century.
"To demonstrate the fact," says the more recent observer, "in January 1837, I took a female
salmon, weighing fourteen pounds, from the spawning bed, from whence I also took a male parr,
weighing one ounce and a half, with the milt of which I impregnated a quantity of her ova,
and placed the whole in a private pond, where, to my great astonishment, the process succeeded
in every respect as it had done with the ova which had been impregnated by the adult male salmon,
and exhibited, from the first visible appearance of the embryo fish, up to their assuming their
migratory dress, the utmost health and vigour."

So serious is the destruction of the spawn and fry of salmon, both by sea and fresh-water trout,
that the Duke of Sutherland's manager would willingly, were it possible, extirpate the entire
breed of these fish. "They commence," he informs us, in a letter of 15th May 1843, "the moment
the salmon begin to deposit their spawn, and in the course of the spawning season they devour
an immense quantity of ova. Indeed, at all other times of the year, they feed on the fry of
salmon, and continue their destruction till the day the smolts leave the rivers. I have often
cut up trout, and got smolts in their stomach; and last week a trout was opened in Mr Buist's
fish-yard with four full-grown smolts in its belly. From these and other similar occurrences,
you may judge to what extent this destruction is carried on, in the course of a single year,
in such a river as our Oykel, where I have killed seven hundred trout at a single hawl." We
understand that, some years ago, when Mr Trap, (a most appropriate name,) the fishmonger in
Perth, had the Dupplin cruives, he got about 400 whitlings (or sea-trout) in one day, all of
them gorged to the throat with salmon fry. The sea-trout of Sutherlandshire, like those of
the Nith and the Annan, almost all belong to the species named Salmo trutta by naturalists.
They scarcely ever exceed, indeed rarely attain to, a weight of five pounds; and such as go
beyond that weight, and range upwards from eight to twelve pounds, are generally found to pertain
to Salmo eriox, the noted bull-trout of the Tweed. The great grey sea-trout of the river Ness,
which sometimes reaches the weight of eighteen pounds, we doubt not, also belongs to the species
last named. It is rare in the waters of the Tay.

In regard to the seaward migration of salmon fry, Mr Scrope is of opinion that some are continually
going down to the salt water in every month of the year, not with their silver scales on, but
in the parr state.

     "I say, not with their silver scales, because no clear smolt is
     ever seen in the Tweed during the summer and autumnal months.
     As the spawning season in the Tweed extends over a period of
     six months, some of the fry must be necessarily some months
     older than the others, a circumstance which favours my
     supposition that they are constantly descending to the sea, and
     it is only a supposition, as I have no proof of the fact, and
     have never heard it suggested by any one. But if I should be
     right, it will clear up some things that cannot well be
     accounted for in any other mode. For instance, in the month of
     March 1841, Mr Yarrell informs me that he found a young
     salmon in the London market, and which he has preserved in
     spirits, measuring only fifteen inches long, and weighing only
     fifteen ounces. And again another, the following April,
     sixteen and a half inches long, weighing twenty-four ounces.
     Now, one of these appeared two months, and the other a month,
     before the usual time when the fry congregate. According to the
     received doctrine, therefore, these animals were two of the
     migration of the preceding year; and thus it must necessarily
     follow that they remained in salt water, one ten, and the other
     eleven months, with an increase of growth so small as to be
     irreconcilable with the proof we have of the growth of the
     grilse and salmon during their residence in salt water."--P.
     36.

We are not entirely of Mr Scrope's opinion, that some salmon fry are descending to the sea
during every month of the year; at least, we do not conceive that this forms a part of their
regular rotation. But the nature of the somewhat anomalous individuals alluded to by Mr Yarrell,
may be better understood from the following considerations. Although it is an undoubted fact
that the great portion of parr descend together to the sea, as smolts, in May, by which time
they have entered into their third year, yet it is also certain that a few, owing to some peculiarity
in their natural constitution, do not migrate at that time, but continue in the rivers all
summer. As these have not obeyed the normal or ordinary law which regulates the movements of
their kind, they make irregular migrations to the sea during the winter floods, and ascend
the rivers during the spring months, some time before the descent of the two-year-olds. We
have killed parr of this description, measuring eight and nine inches, in the rivers in October,
and we doubt not these form eventually the small, thin, rather ill-conditioned grilse which
are occasionally taken in our rivers during early spring. But it is midsummer before the regularly
migrating smolts reappear as grilse. However, certain points in relation to this branch of
our subject may still be regarded as "open questions," on which the Cabinet has not made up
its mind, and may agree to differ. Mr Scrope is certainly right in his belief, that, whatever
be the range of time occupied by the descent of smolts towards the sea, they are not usually
seen descending with their silvery coating on except in spring; although our Sutherland correspondent,
to whom we have so frequently referred, is not of that opinion. It may be, that those which
do not join the general throng, migrate in a more sneaking sort of way during summer. They
are non-intrusionists, who have at first refused to sign the terms of the Convocation; but
finding themselves eventually rather out of their element, on the wrong side of the cruive
dyke, and not wishing to fall as fry into the cook's hands, have sea-ceded some time after
the disruption of their General Assembly.

Even those smolts which descend together in April and May, (the chief periods of migration,)
do not agree in size. Many are not half the length of others, although all have assumed the
silvery coat. "I had, last April," Mr Young informs us in a letter of 3d June 1843, "upwards
of fifty of them in a large bucket of water, for the purpose of careful and minute examination
of size, &c., when I found a difference of from three and a half to six inches--the smallest
having the same silvery coat as the largest. We cannot at all wonder at this difference, as
it is a fact that the spawn even of the same fish exhibits a disparity in its fry as soon as
hatched, which continues in all the after stages. Although the throng of our smolts descend
in April and May, we have smolts descending in March, and as late in the season as August,
which lapse of time agrees with the continuance of our spawning season. But in all these months
we have an equal proportion (that is, a corresponding mixture) of large and small smolts. I
have earnestly searched for smolts in the winter months, year after year, and I can only say
that I have never seen one, although I have certainly tried every possible means to find them.
I have seen fish spawning through the course of six months, and I have seen smolts descending
through the same length of time. Our return of grilses, too, exactly corresponds with this
statement. Thus a few descending March smolts give a few ascending May grilses; while our April
and May swarms of smolts yield our hordes of grilse in June and July. After July, grilses decrease
in numbers till October, in proportion to the falling off of smolts from May to August. At
least these are my observations in our northern streams." They are observations of great value,
and it is only by gathering together similar collections of facts from various quarters, that
we can ultimately attain to a clear and comprehensive knowledge of the whole subject.

We gather from our most recent correspondence with Mr Shaw, (Letter of 8th June 1843,) that
he does not regard the range in the spawning period to be followed by a corresponding range
in the departure of smolts towards the sea, and in their return from it as grilse. He has found
a considerable diversity of time in the assumption of the silvery coating even among individuals
of the very same family. "I do not," he observes, "recollect an instance where there were not
individuals of each brood reared in my ponds, which assumed the migratory coating several weeks
before the brood in general had done so; and these individuals would have migrated accordingly,
and reappeared as grilse all the sooner." As the hatching and growth of salmon smolts and other
fish, is regulated in a great measure by the temperature of the water in which they dwell,
it is very probable that ova deposited late in the season, (say the month of March,) may, in
consequence of the great increase of temperature, be hatched much more rapidly than those spawned
in mid-winter, and so, by the end of a couple of years, no great difference will exist between
them. We remember that, in one of Mr Shaw's earlier experiments, it is stated that he took
occasion to convey a few ova in a tumbler within doors, where the temperature ranged from 45°
to 47°. They were hatched in thirty-six hours, while such as were left in the stream of the
pond, in a temperature of 41°, did not hatch until the termination of seven subsequent days.
The whole had been previously one hundred and six days in the water, under a considerably lower
temperature.

Mr Shaw has frequently detected individual smolts, both of salmon and sea-trout, (though of
the latter more particularly,) descending in some seasons as early as the end of March, and
as late as the middle of June, and he has little doubt that some may make their way still earlier
to the sea. These, of course, will be found in our tideways as small grilse, weighing one or
two pounds, in April and May. The large parr, to which we have already alluded as occasionally
met with in rivers, and which we regard as young salmon remaining (and in this forming exceptions
to the normal rule) in fresh water throughout their third year, Mr Shaw, whose opinion we requested
on the subject, coincides with us in thinking, "would, in all probability, be the first to
quit the river after so long a residence there, when the season of migration approached. These,
however, are not the only individuals of their kind which leave the river for the sea long
before the month of May." A difference in the period of deposition will assuredly cause a difference
in the period of hatching, and in this we agree with Mr Scrope; but we think that a late spawning,
having the advantage of a higher temperature as the result of a more genial season, will be
followed by a more rapid development, and so the difference will not be so great, nor expanded
over so many months, as that gentlemen supposes. Finally, the vagrant summer smolts, to which
we have before alluded, may consist of that small number of anomalous fry, which we know to
assume the migratory dress and instinct soon after the completion of their first year.

Although the excellence of a salmon's condition is derived from the sea, and all its increase
of weight is gained there, yet few of these fish remain for any considerable length of time
in marine waters. By a wonderful, and to us most beneficial instinct, they are propelled to
revisit their ancestral streams, with an increase of size corresponding to the length of their
sojourn in the sea. Such as observe their accustomed seasons, (and of these are the great mass
of smolts,) return at certain anticipated times. Their periods are known, and their revolutions
calculated. Such as migrate at irregular or unobserved intervals, return unexpectedly at different
times. Their motions seem eccentric, because their periods have not been ascertained.

But it is obvious that Mr Yarrell's diminutive examples already alluded to, could not have
gone down to the sea with the great majority of their kind, during the spring preceding that
in which they were captured; because, in that case, having remained a much longer time than
usual in salt water, they would have returned as very large grilse instead of extremely small ones.

Mr Scrope informs us that the most plentiful season in the Tweed for grilse, if there has been
a flood, is about the time of St Boswell's fair, namely, the 18th of July, at which period
they weigh from four to six pounds. Those which don't leave the salt for the fresh water till
the end of September and the course of October, sometimes come up from the sea for the first
time weighing ten or eleven pounds, or even more.

     "Some of them are much larger than small salmon; but by the
     term grilse I mean young salmon that have only been once to
     sea. They are easily distinguished from salmon by their
     countenance, and less plump appearance, and particularly by the
     diminished size of the part of the body next the tail, which
     also is more forked than that of the salmon. They remain in
     fresh water all the autumn and winter, and spawn at the same
     time with the salmon. They return also to sea in spring with
     the salmon. It seems worthy of remark, that salmon are
     oftentimes smaller than moderate-sized grilse; but, although
     such grilse have been only once to sea, yet the period they
     have remained there must have exceeded the two short visits
     made by the small salmon, and hence their superiority of
     size. When these fish return to the river from their second
     visit to the sea, they are called salmon, and are greatly
     altered in their shape and appearance; the body is more full,
     and the tail less forked, and their countenance assumes a
     different aspect."--P. 37.

     We are glad to observe that in these opinions regarding the
     growth of grilse and salmon, our author conforms with, and
     consequently confirms, the ingenious and accurate experimental
     observations recently completed by Mr Young of Invershin.[11]

     Of all those natural causes which counteract the increase of
     salmon fry, and consequently of grown grilse and adult salmon,
     Mr Scrope considers that the "furious spates" which so
     frequently occur in Tweed, are the most destructive. These not
     only put the channel in motion, but often sweep away the
     spawning beds entirely. Prior to the improvements in
     agriculture, and the amelioration of the hill pastures by
     drainage, the floods were much less sudden, because the
     morasses and swampy grounds gave out water gradually, and thus
     the river took longer to rise, and continued fuller for a
     greater length of time than in these degenerate days, to the
     increased delight of every acre-less angler.

     "But now every hill is scored with little rills which fall into
     the rivers, which suddenly become rapid torrents and swell the
     main river, which dashes down to the ocean with tumultuous
     violence. Amidst the great din you may hear the rattling of the
     channel stones as they are borne downwards. Banks are torn
     away; new deeps are hollowed out, and old ones filled up; so
     that great changes continually take place in the bed of the
     river either for the better or the worse. When we contemplate
     these things, we must at once acknowledge the vast importance
     of Mr Shaw's experiments; for if ponds were constructed upon
     the Tweed at the general expense, after the model of those made
     by him, all these evils would be avoided. The fry might be
     produced in any quantities by artificial impregnation, be
     preserved, and turned into the great river at the proper period
     of migration. There might at first be some difficulty in
     procuring food for them; but this would be easily got over at a
     very small expense, and with a few adult salmon more fry may be
     sent to sea annually than the whole produce of the river at
     present amounts to, after having encountered the sweeping
     perils I have mentioned."--P. 43.

[Footnote 11: See Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol. XV. Part iii. p. 343.]

Our author then proposes that proprietors should call meetings for the purpose, and that parr,
hitherto so named, should now, in their capacity of young salmon, be protected by law. He advises
all who have an interest in the river, to consider the wisdom of mutual accommodation; the
owners of the more seaward banks being dependent on the upper heritors for the protection of
the spawning fish and fry, while they, on the other hand, are equally dependent on the former
for an honest adherence to the weekly close-time.

But a thoughtful consideration of this portion of our subject would lead us into a somewhat
interminable maze, including the policy of our ancient Acts of Parliament, and the nature of
estuaries,--those mysteriously commingled "watteris quhar the sea ebbis and flowis,"--"ubi
salmunculi vel smolti, seu fria alterius generis piscium maris vel aquæ dulcis, (nunquam) descendunt
et ascendunt,"--and then the stake-net question stretches far before us, and dim visions of
the "Sutors of Cromarty" rise upon our inward eye, and the wild moaning of the "Gizzin Brigs"
salutes our ear, and defenders are converted into appellants, and suspenders into respondents,
and the whole habitable earth assumes for a time the aspect of a Scotch Jury Court, which suddenly
blazes into the House of Lords.[12]

[Footnote 12: Certain river mouths and estuaries in the north of Scotland "within flude-marke
of the sea," have lately given rise to various questions of disputed rights regarding the erection
of stake-nets, and the privilege of catching salmon with the same. These questions involve
the determination of several curious though somewhat contradictory points in physical geography,
geology, and the natural history of fishes and marine vegetation.]

That salmon return with great regularity to the river in which they were originally bred, is
now well known. Mr Scrope, however, thinks that they do not invariably do so, but will ascend
other rivers during spawning time, if they find their own deficient in bulk of water. Thus
many Tweed salmon are caught in the Forth, (a deep and sluggish stream,) and a successful fishing
there is usually accompanied by a scarce one in the Tweed. Yet we know that they will linger
long, during periods of great drought, in those mingled waters where the sea "comes and gangs,"--as
was well seen in the hot and almost rainless summer of 1842, when the Berwick fishings were
abundant, but those of Kelso and the upper streams extremely unproductive. The established
fact, however, that grilse and salmon, under ordinary natural circumstances, do certainly return
to their native beds, is one of great practical importance, because it permits the plan of
peopling barren rivers by the deposition of impregnated spawn carried from more fruitful waters.
It ought to be borne in mind, however, in relation to this latter point, that these waters
must possess, in a considerable measure, the same natural attributes which characterize the
voluntary haunts of salmon. If they do not do so, although the fry bred there will in all probability
return thither from the sea as grilse, yet the breeding process will be carried on at first
feebly, and then inefficiently, till the species finally becomes extinct. The same observations,
of course, apply to trout. It has been proposed, we believe by Sir W.F. Mackenzie of Gairloch,
to apply the principle of one set of Mr Shaw's experiments to the improvement of moorland lochs,
or others, in which the breed of trout may be inferior, by carrying the ova of a better and
richer flavoured variety from another locality. Now, in this well-intentioned scheme, we think
there is some confusion of cause and effect. It is the natural difference in food, and other
physical features and attributes, between the two kinds of lochs in question, which causes
or is intimately connected with the difference in the fleshly condition of their finny inhabitants;
and unless we can also change the characters of the surrounding country, and the bed of the
watery basin, we shall seek in vain to people "the margins of our moorish floods" with delicate
trout, lustrous without any red of hue within, in room of those inky-coated, muddy-tasted tribes,
"indigenæ an advectæ," which now dwell within our upland pools.

It has been asserted by some that salmon will dwell continuously, and even breed, in fresh
water, although debarred all access to the sea. "Near Kattrineberg," says Mr Lloyd, in his
work on the field-sports of the north of Europe, "there is a valuable fishery for salmon, ten
or twelve thousand of these fish being taken annually. These salmon are bred in a lake, and,
in consequence of cataracts, cannot have access to the sea. They are small in size, and inferior
in flavour. The year 1820 furnished 21,817." We confess we cannot credit this account of fresh
water (sea-debarred) salmon, but suppose there must be some mistake regarding the species.
Every thing that we know of the habits and history, the growth and migrations, of these fish
in Britain, is opposed to its probability. Mr Young has conclusively ascertained that, at least
in Scotland, not only does their growth, after the assumption of the silvery state, take place
solely in the sea, but that they actually decrease in weight from the period of their entering
the rivers; and Mr Scrope himself, (see pp. 27, 30,) although he quotes the passage without
protest, seems of the same opinion. Besides, with their irrepressible instinctive inclination
to descend the rivers during spring when young, we don't believe that the cataract in question
would prevent their doing so, although it might assuredly hinder their return in summer, in
which case the Kattrineberg breed would soon become extinct, even supposing that they had ever
had existence. The alleged fact, however, is well worthy of more accurate observance and explicit
explanation than have yet been bestowed upon it by the Scandinavian naturalists.

We are informed that Mr George Dormer of Stone Mills, in the parish of Bridport, put a female
salmon, which measured twenty inches, and was caught in the mill-dam, into a small well, where
it remained twelve years, and at length died in the year 1842. "The well measured only five
feet by two feet four inches, and there was only fifteen inches depth of water." We should
have been well pleased to have been told of the size of the fish when it died, in addition
to that of the prison in which it dwelt, for otherwise the fact itself is of less consequence.[13]
We presume its rate of growth would be extremely slow, although we do not agree with Mr Young
in the opinion already quoted, that salmon actually decrease in dimensions on entering the
fresh water. We doubt not they decrease in weight, and probably also in circumference; but
their bones and organic structure are assuredly enlarged, and themselves lengthened, in such
a way as to fit their general form for a rapidly increased development, so soon as they again
rejoice in the fattening influences of the salubrious sea.

[Footnote 13: The following curious particulars regarding the above-mentioned salmon are taken
from a Devonshire newspaper:--"She would come to the top of the water and take meat off a plate,
and would devour a quarter of a pound of lean meat in less time than a man could eat it; she
would also allow Mr Dormer to take her out of the water, and when put into it again she would
immediately take meat from his hands, or would even bite the finger if presented to her. Some
time since a little girl teased her by presenting the finger and then withdrawing it, till
at last she leaped a considerable height above the water, and caught her by the said finger,
which made it bleed profusely: by this leap she threw herself completely out of the water into
the court. At one time a young duckling got into the well, to solace himself in his favourite
element, when she immediately seized him by the leg, and took him under water; but the timely
interference of Mr Dormer prevented any further mischief than making a cripple of the young
duck. At another time a full-grown drake approached the well, when Mrs Fish, seeing a trespasser
on her premises, immediately seized the intruder by the bill, and a desperate struggle ensued,
which at last ended in the release of Mr Drake from the grasp of Mrs Fish, and no sooner freed,
than Mr Drake flew off in the greatest consternation and affright; since which time, to this
day, he has not been seen to approach the well, and it is with great difficulty he can be brought
within sight of it. This fish lay in a dormant state for five months in the year, during which
time she would eat nothing, and was likewise very shy."]

Our author next refers to a rather singular subject, which has not yet sufficiently attracted
the notice of naturalists, and the phenomena of which (at least their final causes) have not
been explained by physiological enquirers. That fishes assume, in a great degree, the colour
of the channel over which they lie, is known to many practical observers. We have ourselves
frequently frightened small flounders from their propriety with our shoe-points, while angling
near the mouths of rivers, and so exactly did their colour accord with the shingle beneath
our feet, that we could not detect their presence but by their own betraying movements. Such,
however, as happened to glide towards, and settle on, a portion of the bed of different colour
from the rest, continued perceptible for a short time; but they too seemed speedily to disappear,
although we afterwards discovered that they had not stirred an inch, but had merely changed
their tint to that of the particular portion of the basin of the stream to which they had removed.
Every angler knows, that there is not only a difference in the colour of trouts in different
streams, but that different though almost adjoining portions of the same river, if distinguished
by some diversity of character in respect to depth, current, or clearness, will yield him fish
of varying hue. Very rapid and irregular changes are also observable in their colours after
death; and large alternate blotches of darker and lighter hues may be produced upon their sides
and general surface, by the mode of their disposal in the creel. Dr Stark showed many years
ago, that the colour of sticklebacks, and other small fishes, was influenced by the colour
of the earthenware, or other vessels in which they were confined, as well as modified by the
quantity of light to which they were exposed; and Mr Shaw has very recently informed us, regarding
this mutability of the outer aspect of fishes, that if the head alone is placed upon a particular
colour, (whether lighter or darker,) the whole body will immediately assume a corresponding
shade, quite independent of the particular tint upon which the body itself may chance to rest.
We know not to what extent these, and similar phenomena, are familiar to Sir David Brewster;
but we willingly admit, that in order to attain to their clearer comprehension, the facts themselves
must be investigated by one who, like that accomplished philosopher, is conversant with those
branches of physical science to which they are related. They unfortunately lie beyond the range
of our own optics, but Mr Scrope's practical improvement of the subject is as follows:--

     "I would recommend any one who wishes to show his day's sport
     in the pink of perfection, to keep his trouts in a wet cloth,
     so that, on his return home, he may exhibit them to his
     admiring friends, and extract from them the most approved of
     epithets and exclamations, taking the praise bestowed upon the
     fish as a particular compliment to himself."--P. 56.

British legislators ought certainly to consider the recent completion of our knowledge both
of salmon and sea-trout; and if they can make themselves masters of their more detailed local
history, so much the better. Mr Home Drummond's is still the regulating Act of Parliament,
and seems to have kept its ground firmly, notwithstanding many attempted alterations, if not
amendments. In accordance with that Act, all our rivers north of the Tweed close on the 14th
of September, and do not re-open till the 1st of February.[14] This bears hardly upon some
of our northern streams. In the Ness, for example, before the application of the existing laws,
more fish were wont to be killed in December and January than during most other periods of
the year.[15] It appears to have been clearly ascertained that the season of a river (in respect
to its being early or late) depends mainly upon the temperature of its waters. The Ness, which
is the earliest river in Scotland, scarcely ever freezes. It flows from the longest and deepest
loch in Britain; and thus, when the thermometer, as it did in the winter of 1807, stands at
20, 30, or even 40 deg. below the freezing point at Inverness, it makes little or no impression
upon either lake or river. The course of the latter is extremely short. The Shin is also an
early river, flowing from a smaller loch, though with a more extended course before it enters
the Kyle of Sutherland, where it becomes confluent with the Oykel waters.

Now salmon don't like either snowy water, bridges of ice, or stealthy streams, but a bold,
bright, expansive, unimpeded, and accommodating kind of highway to our inland vales. They instinctively
regard a modified temperature, and a flowing movement, as great inducements to leave the sea
in early winter, instead of waiting until spring; and, in like manner, they avoid "imprisoned
rivers" until icy gales have ceased to blow. The consequences are, we may have an extremely
early river and a very late one within a few hundred yards of each other, and both debouching
from the same line of coast into the sea. Now, in the autumn of 1836, a bill was proposed and
brought in by Mr Patrick Stewart and Mr Loch, to amend the preceding Act (9th Geo. IV.) which
had repealed that of James I., (1424.) It proceeded on the preamble, that "whereas the sand
acts have been found inadequate to the purposes for which they were passed, inasmuch as it
is found that our close-time is not suitable for all the salmon fishings and rivers throughout
Scotland, and it is expedient that the same should therefore, and in other respects, be altered,
modified, and amended." It therefore enacted that different close-times shall be observed in
different divisions of Scotland, the whole of which is partitioned into twelve districts, as
specified in schedule A referred to in the bill. We do not know how or from whom the necessary
information was obtained; but we doubt not it was sedulously sought for, and digested in due
form. For example, the boundaries as to time and space of the second district, are as follows:--"From
Tarbet Ness aforesaid, to Fort George Point, in the county of Nairn, including the Beaulie
Frith and the rivers connected therewith, except the river Ness, from the 20th day of August
to the 6th day of January, both days inclusive; and for the said river Ness, from the 14th
day of July, to the 1st day of December, both days inclusive." This is so far well. But in
the ninth district, the definition and directions are:--"From the confines of the Solway Frith
to the northern boundary of the county of Ayr, from the 30th day of September to the 16th day
of February, both days inclusive." Now most anglers know that the district thus defined, includes
streams which vary considerably in their character, and cannot be correctly classed together.
Thus the Doon, which draws its chief sources from numerous lakes among the hills, is one of
the earliest rivers in the south-west of Scotland, clean fresh-run fish occurring in it by
Christmas; while the neighbouring river Ayr, although existing under the same general climatic
influence, produces few good salmon till the month of June. It is fed by tributaries of the
common kind. The Stinchar, in the same district, is also a late river, being seldom worked
by the tacksmen till towards the end of April, and even then few of the fish are worth keeping.
Of course, it requires to be closed in September, although the fish are then in good case.
These, and many other facts which might be mentioned, show the difficulty of legislating even
upon the improved localizing principle which it has been attempted to introduce. However, the
bill referred to, though printed, was never passed.

[Footnote 14: The net fishings in the Tweed do not close till the 16th of October, and the
lovers of the angle are allowed an additional fortnight. These fishings do not open (either
for net or rod) till the 15th of February.]

[Footnote 15: It was proved in evidence before the select committee of the House of Commons
in 1825, that the amount of salmon killed in the Ness during eight years, (from 1811-12 to
1818-19,) made a total for the months

Of December, of  2405
Of January,      3554
Of February,     3239
Of March,        3029
Of April,        2147
Of May,          1127
Of June,          170
Of July,          253
Of August,       2192
Of September,     430
               ------
               18,542

It further appears, from the evidence referred to, that during these years no grilse ran up
the Ness till after the month of May. The months

Of June produced  277
Of July,         1358
Of August,       4229
Of September,    1493
                 ----
                 7357
]

Since we have entered, inadvertently, into what may be called the legislative branch of our
subject, we may refer for a moment to the still more recent bill, prepared and brought into
Parliament by Mr Edward Ellice and Mr Thomas Mackenzie, and ordered to be printed, 11th May
1842. It is entitled, "a bill for the better regulation of the close-time in salmon fisheries
in Scotland;" and with a view to accommodate and reconcile the interests of all parties, it
throws the arrangement and the decision of the whole affair into the hands of the commissioners
of the herring fishery. It enacts that it shall be lawful for these commissioners, upon due
application by any proprietor (or guardian, judicial factor, or trustee) of salmon fishings,
of the value of not less than twenty pounds yearly, in any of the rivers, streams, lochs, &c.,
or by any three or more of such proprietors possessing salmon fishings of the yearly value
of ten pounds each, or of any proprietor of salmon fishings which extend one mile in length
on one side, or one half mile on both sides of any river or stream, calling upon the said commissioners
to alter the close-time of any river, stream, &c., to enquire into the expediency of such alteration.
With that view, the are empowered to call before them, and examine upon oath or affirmation,
all necessary witnesses, and to take all requisite evidence for and against the proposed alteration
of the close-time; and upon due consideration of all the circumstances of the case, to determine
that the close-time in such river, stream, &c., shall be altered, and to alter the same accordingly,
and fix such other close-time as they shall deem expedient. Provided always that the close-time
to be fixed by said commissioners, shall not in any case consist of less than one hundred and
thirty-nine free consecutive days. Provision is also made for an alteration, on application
and evidence as before, of any such legalized close-time, after the expiration of three years;
all expenses incurred by the commissioners in taking evidence, or in other matters connected
with the subject, to be defrayed by the proprietors. Permission may also be granted in favour
of angling with the single rod, for fourteen days after the close. This bill, which we suspect
it would have been difficult to work conveniently, was likewise laid upon the shelf.

Although, as we have said, salmon soonest ascend the warmest rivers, they are alleged to spawn
earliest in the colder ones. Thus Mr Scrope informs us, that in the shallow mountain streams
which pour into the Tay, near its source, the fish spawn much earlier than those in the main
bed of that magnificent river, and he quotes the following sentiments of the late John Crerar,
head fisherman and forester to the Duke of Athole, on the subject:--

     "There are," said John, "two kinds of creatures that I am well
     acquainted with--the one a land animal, the other a water
     one--the red-deer and the salmon. In October the deer ruts, and
     the salmon spawns. The deer begins soonest, high up among the
     hills, particularly in frosty weather; so does the salmon begin
     to spawn earlier in frosty weather than in soft. The master
     hart would keep all the other harts from the hind, if he could;
     and the male salmon would keep all the other males from the
     female, if he was able."--P. 60.

We do not think, however, that Mr Scrope's comparative reference to the upper and lower portions
of the Tay affords a satisfactory or conclusive test. The higher parts of almost all rivers
(including, their tributaries) constitute the favourite spawning places, from other causes
than "by reason of the cold;" and the question should be tried, not by comparing two different
districts of the same river, but all the portions of one river, with the entire course of another
of dissimilar character. The exceptive clause in Mr Loch's proposed act in flavour of the river
Ness, certainly stood upon the supposition of that river being an early one for the breeding
salmon, as well as the new-run winter fish; for it enacts not only that the Ness should open
more than a month earlier than its neighbours, but also that it shall close more than a month
before them. This latter restriction would of course be useless and impolitic, if the parent
fish were not conceived to be about to spawn. But it should also be borne in mind, that the
same causes (such as the extent and depth of feeding lakes) which produce a higher temperature
in winter, cause a lower one in summer and the earlier part of autumn, and that shallow upland
streams are warmer during the latter periods than those which flow from deeper and more affluent
sources. We believe that the fish of all rivers spawn soonest on the higher portions of their
water courses, whether these be comparatively warm or cold. The earliest individuals are in
general such as have escaped the nets and other accidents below, and have made their watery
way in good time to proper spawning places. In several rivers with which we are acquainted,
a great majority of the breeding fish ascend in August and September. But many of those which
make their appearance in July, would be early spawners if they were allowed to escape the various
dangers which beset their path in life--almost all the salmon of that month being captured
by one means or another. Mr Young, in our MS. notes already quoted, states, in regard to the
range of the breeding season, that he has seen salmon perfectly full of spawn, ascending the
rivers in October, November, December, January, and February. Now the fish of the last-named
month may have spawned as late as March, although our correspondent adds that he has never
seen fish on the spawning beds later than February, nor earlier than September. He has seen
them in the act of spawning in these and all the intermediate months.

As we have said above, the greater part of these breeders ascend in August and September, and
the throng of the spawning process takes place in November and December. The earlier spawning
begins in September with only a few pairs, generally grilse; and from that period the numbers
increase till the first week of December, when the operation has attained its height. It then
gradually decreases until February, when perhaps only a few pairs are seen at work. Mr Young
informs us that sea-trout are seen spawning a week earlier than grilse, and grilse a week earlier
than salmon. He does not mean that all grilse spawn before salmon begin, but that they are
observed working a week before the latter have commenced.

Mr Shaw informs us, (in his last letter,) that it is an exceedingly rare occurrence to find
an unspawned fish in the rivers of Dumfriesshire in the month of March. On one occasion, however,
about twenty years ago, he observed a female salmon spawning in the Nith about the 10th or
12th of March, but unaccompanied by any male. He can also call to mind a pair of salmon having
been observed spawning in the Ettrick so late as Selkirk March fair, which is held during the
first week of April. This, however, we believe to be a very rare occurrence, notwithstanding
Mr Scrope's statement, that he has in the Tweed "caught full roaners as late as May." These
seem to be anomalous or accidental instances, and we are not aware that any evidence has been
brought forward to prove that they still seek the spawning beds in pairs at that period, or
produce what may be called autumnal fry.

The usual spawning period in the south-west of Scotland extends from about the middle of November
till the middle of February; but the busiest months of that period are December and January,
when the salmon spawn in great numbers in the Nith, about Drumlanrig. From the circumstances
of the largest salmon visiting the rivers at that season, Mr Shaw is induced to think that
they are likewise the oldest; and that, as they increase in years, they desire to remain the
longer in the sea, visiting the fresh waters only during the breeding season. The spawning
period of sea-trout, he informs us, is from about the middle of October until the middle of
December, the principal period being the whole of November, when the various streams and tributaries
are taken possession of both by sea-trout and herling, spawning in deep or shallow water, according
to their individual size.

But in reference to the point in question, that cold accelerates the spawning process, let
us take for a moment the general basin of the Oykel waters into view. We know that for several
seasons back, the earliest spawning in that quarter has occurred in the Carron, in September.
Now, it is certain, that during that month the Carron waters are warmer than those of the Shin.
So also the Oykel (properly so called) is itself two degrees warmer in October than the Shin,
and yet the latter is the later of the two. It thus appears that warmth may be advantageous
both as inducing early spawning in autumn, and an early entrance of fresh-run fish in winter;
although a single river may not possess both attributes for the reason hinted at--the deepest
waters, though protected from winter's cold, being also screened from summer's heat. Mr Scrope
may therefore be regarded as right in his facts as to the earlier season of the upland streams,
although his theoretical explanation of them is not conclusive.

The lateness of the spawning season in the Shin may, in some measure, be owing to the early
breeding fish going up into the loch, from whence, after a time, they fall back upon the spawning
places in the fords of the river. The same thing happens in the lower regions of the Tay--the
fish fall back from the loch, and the ford between Taymouth Castle and Kenmore is by far the
latest in that river. Salmon have been seen to spawn there in February. In regard to the general
influence of the atmosphere, we may here remark that frosty weather is good for spawning; because
the fish go then into the deeper or central portions of the fords, by which procedure the spawning
beds are never dry,--whereas, in time of spates, salmon are apt to deposit their spawn along
the margins, and thus the roe is frequently destroyed by the subsiding of the waters.

However, the real importance of an early river has little or no connexion with the periods
of the spawning process; because it is not so much the breeding fish that are of individual
value in winter, as those which, having no intention or requirement to spawn until the following
autumn, enter the fresh waters because they have already completed the days of their purification
in the sea. Although, when viewed in the relation of time, they may seem to form the continuous
succession of spawning fish which have come up gravid from the ocean during the later months
of autumn, they are in truth rather the avant-couriers of the newer and more highly-conditioned
shoals which show themselves in early spring. We believe that fresh-run fish may be found in
all our larger rivers during every month throughout the year, though we cannot clear up their
somewhat anomalous history, nor explain why the breeding season, as among land creatures of
identical natures, should not take place more uniformly about the same time. It is by no means
improbable, however, that, as grilse seek our fresh waters at different periods from adult
salmon, so salmon of a certain standing may observe different periods of migration from those
of dissimilar age.

If, as many suppose, the earliest fish are those which have soonest spawned during the preceding
autumn, and have since descended towards and recovered in the sea,--then a precocious spawning
would necessarily lead to the speediest supply of clean fish in mid-winter; but the fact referred
to has not been ascertained, and it may therefore still be as reasonably alleged that the winter
fish (an opinion supported by the fact of their unusually large size) have continued in the
sea since spring. At least a majority of them, (for they differ somewhat in their aspect and
condition,) instead of having spawned soonest in autumn, have probably rather spawned last
of all during the preceding spring, and so required for their recovery a corresponding retardation
of their sojourn in the sea. The reasons why grilse seldom show themselves till the summer
is well advanced, are very obvious, now that we have become conversant with their true history.
They were only smolts in the immediately preceding spring, and are becoming grilse from week
to week, and of various sizes, according to the length of their continuance in the sea. But
they require at least a couple of months to intervene between their departure from the rivers
in April or May, and their return thither;--which return consequently commences, though sparingly,
in June, and preponderates in July and August.

But we are making slow progress with our intended exposition of Mr Scrope's beautiful and instructive
volume. Although salmon and salmon streams form the subject and "main region of his song,"
he yet touches truthfully, albeit with brevity, upon the kindred nature of sea-trout, which
are of two species--the salmon-trout and the bull-trout. The fry of the former, called orange
fins, (which, like the genuine parr, remain two continuous years in the river,) greatly resemble
the young of the common fresh-water trout. "Like the grilse, it returns to the river the summer
of its spring migration, weighing about a pound and a half upon an average."--P. 63. We think
our author rather over-estimates their weight at this early period. Herlings (for so they are
also named on their first ascent from the sea) rarely weigh one pound, unless they remain for
a longer time than usual in salt water. In this state they bear the same relation to adult
sea-trout as grilse do to salmon, and they spawn while herlings. They afterwards increase about
a pound and a half annually, and in the summer of their sixth year (from the ovum) have been
found to weigh six pounds.[16] Whether this is their ordinary ultimate term of increase, or
whether, having every year to pass up and down the dangerous, because clear and shallow waters,
exposed to many mischances, and, it may be, the "imminent deadly breach" of the cruive-dyke,
and thus perish in their prime, we cannot say: but this we know, that they are rarely ever
met with above the weight of six or seven pounds.

     "These fish," says Mr Scrope, "are found in many salmon rivers,
     but not in all. It is very abundant in the Tweed, which it
     visits principally at two seasons; in the spring about the
     month of May, and again in the month of October, when the males
     are very plentiful; but the females are scarce till about the
     beginning or middle of November. With salmon it is the reverse,
     as their females leave the sea before the males. The bull trout
     is also more regular in his habits than the salmon; for the
     fisherman can calculate almost to a day when the large black
     male trout will leave the sea. The foul fish rise eagerly at
     the fly, but the clean ones by no means so. They weigh from two
     to twenty-four pounds, and occasionally, I presume, but very
     rarely indeed, more. The largest I ever heard of was taken in
     the Hallowstell fishing water, at the mouth of the Tweed, in
     April 1840, and weighed twenty-three pounds and a half. The
     heaviest bull trout I ever encountered myself weighed sixteen
     pounds, and I had a long and severe contest with his majesty.
     He was a clean fish, and I hooked him in a cast in Mertoun
     water called the Willow Bush, not in the mouth but in the
     dorsal fin. Brethren of the craft, guess what sore work I had
     with him! He went here and there with apparent comfort and ease
     to his own person, but not to mine. I really did not know what
     to make of him. There never was such a Hector. I cannot say
     exactly how long I had him on the hook; it seemed a week at
     least. At length John Halliburton, who was then my fisherman,
     waded into the river up to his middle, and cleeked him whilst
     he was hanging in the stream, and before he was half beat."--P.
     66.

Many simple-minded people, with something of a sentimental turn, (they are almost always fond
of raw oysters, and gloat over a roasted turkey, although they know that it was bled to to
death by cutting the roots of its tongue,) look upon angling as a "cruel sport." Let us see,
with Mr Scrope, how this matter really stands.

     "I take a little wool and feather, and tying it in a particular
     manner upon a hook, make an imitation of a fly; then I throw it
     across the river, and let it sweep round the stream with a
     lively motion. This I have an undoubted right to do, for the
     river belongs to me or my friend; but mark what follows. Up
     starts a monster fish with his murderous jaws, and makes a dash
     at my little Andromeda. Thus he is the aggressor, not I; his
     intention is evidently to commit murder. He is caught in the
     act of putting that intention into execution. Having wantonly
     intruded himself on my hook, which I contend he had no right to
     do, he darts about in various directions, evidently surprised
     to find that the fly, which he hoped to make an easy conquest
     of, is much stronger than himself. I naturally attempt to
     regain this fly, unjustly withheld from me. The fish gets tired
     and weak in his lawless endeavours to deprive me of it. I take
     advantage of his weakness, I own, and drag him, somewhat loth,
     to the shore, when one rap on the back of the head ends him in
     an instant. If he is a trout, I find his stomach distended with
     flies. That beautiful one called the May fly, who is by nature
     almost ephemeral--who rises up from the bottom of the the
     shallows, spreads its light wings, and flits in the sunbeam in
     enjoyment of its new existence--no sooner descends to the
     surface of the water to deposit its eggs, than the unfeeling
     fish, at one fell spring, numbers him prematurely with the
     dead. You see, then, what a wretch a fish is; no ogre is more
     bloodthirsty, for he will devour his nephews, nieces, and even
     his own children, when he can catch them; and I take some
     credit for having shown him up. Talk of a wolf, indeed a lion,
     or a tiger! Why, these, are all mild and saintly in comparison
     with a fish! What a bitter fright must the smaller fry live in!
     They crowd to the shallows, lie hid among the weeds, and dare
     not say the river is their own. I relieve them of their
     apprehensions, and thus become popular with the small shoals.
     When we see a fish quivering upon dry land, he looks so
     helpless without arms or legs, and so demure in expression,
     adding hypocrisy to his other sins, that we naturally pity him;
     then kill and eat him, with Harvey sauce, perhaps. Our pity is
     misplaced,--the fish is not. There is an immense trout in Loch
     Awe in Scotland, which is so voracious, and swallows his own
     species with such avidity, that he has obtained the name of
     Salmo ferox. I pull about this unnatural monster till he is
     tired, land him, and give him the coup-de-grace. Is this
     cruel? Cruelty should be made of sterner stuff."--P. 83.

Mr Scrope is known as an accomplished artist as well as an experienced angler, and we need
not now to tell our readers that he is also a skilful author. It does not fall to the lot of
all men to handle with equal dexterity the brush, the pen, and the rod--to say nothing of the
rifle--still less of the leister, under cloud of night. There is much in the present volume
to interest even those who are so unfortunate as to have never seen either, grilse or salmon,
except as pupils or practitioners in the silver-fork school. His reminiscences of his own early
life and manlier years, under the soubriquet of Harry Otter, are pleasantly told, and his adventurous
meetings with poachers and painters are amusing in themselves, as well as instructive in their
tendency to illustrate, not only the deeper mysteries of piscatorial art, but the life and
conversation of the amphibious people who dwell by the sides of rivers. His first arrival in
"fair Melrose," the moonlight lustre of which was then unsung, is thus described--

     "It was late, and I looked forth on the tranquil scene from my
     window. The moonbeams played upon the distant hilltops, but the
     lower masses slept as yet in shadow; again the pale light
     caught the waters of the Tweed, the lapse of whose streams fell
     faintly on the ear, like the murmuring of a sea-shell. In front
     rose up the mouldering abbey, deep in shadow; its pinnacles,
     and buttresses, and light tracery, but dimly seen in the solemn
     mass. A faint light twinkled for a space among the tomb-stones,
     soon it was extinct, and two figures passed off in the shadow,
     who had been digging a grave even at that late hour. As the
     night advanced, a change began to take place. Clouds heaved up
     over the horizon; the wind was heard in murmurs; the rack
     hurried athwart the moon; and utter darkness fell upon river,
     mountain, and haugh. Then the gust swelled louder, and the
     storm struck fierce and sudden against the casement. But as the
     morrow dawned, though rain-drops still hung upon the leaf, the
     clouds sailed away, the sun broke forth, and all was fair and
     tranquil."--P. 97.

The fisherman was sent for express, and his general garb and fly-bedizened hat, are soon portrayed;
while the "waxing" of the Tweed, and how the Eildon Hills were of old cloven by the art of
grammarye, conclude the fourth chapter, and bring us only to the hundredth page.

The ensuing section of the work opens with some general observations on the scenery of that
now noted district of the south of Scotland, blended with the graceful expression of those
melancholy remembrances, we doubt not deeply felt, which must ever cast a dark shadow over
the minds of the surviving associates of the Great Minstrel. Alas! where can we turn ourselves
without being reminded of the transitory nature of this our low estate, of its dissevered ties,
its buried hopes, and lost affections! How many bitter endurances, reflected from the bosom
of the past, are ever mingling with all those ongoings of human life and action which we call
enjoyments! How mixed in their effects are even the natural glories of this our fair creation!
What golden sunset casts not its far-beaming splendour, not only on the great mountains and
the glittering sea, but also breaks, as if in mockery, into ghastly chambers where the desolation
of death, "the wages of sin," is miserably brooding! And yet how solemnizing, how elevating
in their influences, are all the highest beauties both of art and nature, notwithstanding the
awe, approaching to fearfulness, with which they not seldom affect our spirits. The veneration
with which we gaze even on insensate walls which once formed the loved abode of genius and
virtue, is a natural tribute to a noble nature, and flows from one of the purest and most sustaining
sources of emotion by which our humanity is distinguished. It almost looks as if, in accordance
with the Platonic philosophy, there remained to man, from an original and more lofty state
of existence, some dim remembrance of perfection.

"This inborn and implanted recollection of the godlike," says Schlegel, "remains ever dark
and mysterious; for man is surrounded by the sensible world, which being in itself changeable
and imperfect, encircles him with images of imperfection, changeableness, corruption, and error,
and thus casts perpetual obscurity over that light which is within him. Wherever, in the sensible
and natural world, he perceives any thing which bears a resemblance to the attributes of the
God-head, which can serve as a symbol of a high perfection, the old recollections of his soul
are awakened and refreshed. The love of the beautiful fills and animates the soul of the beholder
with an awe and reverence which belong not to the beautiful itself--at least not to any sensible
manifestation of it--but to that unseen original of which material beauty is the type. From
this admiration, this new-awakened recollection, and this instantaneous inspiration, spring
all higher knowledge and truth. These are not the product of cold, leisurely, and voluntary
reflection, but occupy at once a station far superior to what either thought, or art, or speculation,
can attain; and enter into our inmost souls with the power and presence of a gift from the
divinity."

Mr Scrope's first visit to the Tweed was made before the "Ariosto of the North" had sung those
undying strains which have since added so much associated interest to the finely varied courses
of that fair river. But many fond lovers of nature, then as now,

     "Though wanting the accomplishment of verse,"

were well acquainted with all its unrecorded beauties.

     "What stranger," asks our author, "just emerging from the
     angular enclosures of the south, scored and subdued by tillage,
     would not feel his heart expand at the first sight of the
     heathy mountains, swelling out into vast proportions, over
     which man had no dominion? At the dawn of day he sees, perhaps,
     the mist ascending slowly up the dusky river, taking its
     departure to some distant undefined region; below the mountain
     range his sight rests upon a deep and narrow glen, gloomy with
     woods, shelving down to its centre. What is hid in that
     mysterious mass the eye may not visit; but a sound comes down
     from afar, as of the rushing and din of waters. It is the voice
     of the Tweed, as it bursts from the melancholy hills, and comes
     rejoicing down the sunny vale, taking its free course through
     the haugh, and glittering amongst sylvan bowers--swelling out
     at times fair and ample, and again contracted into gorges and
     sounding cataracts--lost for a space in its mazes behind a
     jutting brae, and re-appearing in dashes of light through bolls
     of trees opposed to it in shadow.

     "Thus it holds its fitful course. The stranger might wander in
     the quiet vale, and far below the blue summits he might see the
     shaggy flock grouped upon some sunny knoll, or struggling among
     the scattered birch-trees, and lower down on the haugh, his eye
     perchance might rest awhile on some cattle standing on a tongue
     of land by the margin of the river, with their dark and rich
     brown forms opposed to the brightness of the waters. All these
     outward pictures he might see and feel; but he would see no
     farther: the lore had not spread its witchery over the
     scene--the legends slept in oblivion. The stark moss-trooper,
     and the clanking stride of the warrior, had not again started
     into life; nor had the light blazed gloriously in the sepulchre
     of the wizard with the mighty book. The slogan swelled not anew
     upon the gale, sounding, through the glens and over the misty
     mountains; nor had the minstrel's harp made music in the
     stately halls of Newark, or beside the lonely braes of Yarrow.

     "Since that time I have seen the Cottage of Abbotsford, with
     the rustic porch, lying peacefully on the haugh between the
     lone hills, and have listened to the wild rush of the Tweed as
     it hurried beneath it. As time progressed, and as hopes arose,
     I have seen that cottage converted into a picturesque mansion,
     with every luxury and comfort attached to it, and have partaken
     of its hospitality; the unproductive hills I have viewed
     covered with thriving plantations, and the whole aspect of the
     country civilized, without losing its romantic character. But,
     amidst all these revolutions, I have never perceived any change
     in the mind of him who made them,--'the choice and master
     spirit of the age.' There he dwelt in the hearts of the people,
     diffusing life and happiness around him; he made a home beside
     the border river, in a country and a nation that have derived
     benefit from his presence, and consequence from his genius.
     From his chamber he looked out upon the grey ruins of the
     Abbey, and the sun which set in splendour beneath the Eildon
     Hills. Like that sun, his course has been run; and, though
     disastrous clouds came across him in his career, he went down
     in unfading glory.

     "These golden hours, alas! have long passed away; but often
     have I visions of the sylvan valley, and its glittering waters,
     with dreams of social intercourse. Abbotsford, Mertoun,
     Chiefswood, Huntly-Burn, Allerley--when shall I forget ye?"--P.
     102.

How many share these sad and vain regrets! Bait fishing for salmon, and the darker, though
torch-illumined, mysteries of the leister, occupy the terminal chapters. A careful study of
the whole will amply repay the angler, the naturalist, the artist, and the general admirer
of the inexhaustible beauties of rural scenery--nowhere witnessed or enjoyed to such advantage
as by the side of a first-rate river.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WHIPPIAD, A SATIRICAL POEM.

BY REGINALD HEBER, BISHOP OF CALCUTTA.

In offering this little poem to the public, some few words, by way of explanation, are deemed
necessary. Most of the circumstances alluded to in it will be familiar to Oxford readers of
Bishop Heber's standing, but especially to those of his own college, Brazenose. The origin
of the poem was simply this:--A young friend of his, B----d P----t, went to call upon him at
Brazenose, and, without being aware of the heinous crime he was committing, cracked a four-horse
whip in the quadrangle. This moved the ire of a certain doctor, a fellow and tutor, and at
that time also dean of the college, commonly called Dr Toe from a defect in one of his feet.
The doctor had unfortunately made himself obnoxious to most of those of his own college, under-graduates
as well as others, by his absurd conduct and regulations. On the following day Mr P----t cracked
the whip in the quadrangle, when the doctor issued from his rooms in great wrath, and after
remonstrating with Mr P----t, and endeavouring to take the whip from him, a scuffle ensued,
in which the whip was broken, and the doctor overpowered and thrown down by the victorious
P----t, who had fortunately taken his degree of Master of Arts. Heber, then an under-graduate
of only a few terms' standing, wrote the first canto the same evening, and the intrinsic merit
of the poem will recommend it to most readers. But it will be doubly interesting when considered
as one of the first, if not the very first, of the poetical productions of that eminent and
distinguished scholar. In it may be traced the dawnings of that genius which was afterwards
to delight the world in an enlarged sphere of usefulness.

K.

CANTO FIRST.

    Where whiten'd Cain the curse of heaven defies,[18]
    And leaden slumber seals his brother's eyes,
    Where o'er the porch in brazen splendour glows
    The vast projection of the mystic nose,
    Triumph erewhile of Bacon's fabled arts,[19]
    Now well-hung symbol of the student's parts;
    'Midst those unhallow'd walls and gloomy cells
    Where every thing but Contemplation dwells,
    Dire was the feud our sculptured Alfred saw,[20]
    And thy grim-bearded bust, Erigena,
    When scouts came flocking from the empty hall,
    And porters trembled at the Doctor's call;
    Ah! call'd in vain, with laugh supprest they stood
    And bit their nails, a dirty-finger'd brood.
    E'en Looker gloried in his master's plight,[21]
    And John beheld, and chuckled at the sight.[22]
    Genius of discord! thou whose murky flight
    With iron pennons more obscured the night--
    Thou, too, of British birth, who dost reside
    In Syms's or in Goodwin's blushing tide,[23]
    Say, spirit, say, for thy enlivening bowl
    With fell ambition fired thy favourite's soul,
    From what dread cause began the bloodless fray
    Pregnant with shame, with laughter, and dismay?
    Calm was the night, and all was sunk to rest,
    Save Shawstone's party, and the Doctor's breast:
    He saw with pain his ancient glory fled,
    And thick oblivion gathering round his head.
    Alas! no more his pupils crowding come,
    To wait indignant in their tyrant's room,[24]
    No more in hall the fluttering theme he tears,
    Or lolling, picks his teeth at morning prayers;
    Unmark'd, unfear'd, on dogs he vents his hate,
    And spurns the terrier from his guarded gate.
    But now to listless indolence a prey,
    Stretch'd on his couch, he sad and darkling lay;
    As not unlike in venom and in size,
    Close in his hole the hungry spider lies.
    "And oh!" he cries, "am I so powerless grown,
    That I am fear'd by cooks and scouts alone?
    Oh! for some nobler strife, some senior foe,
    To swell by his defeat the name of Toe!"
    He spoke--the powers of mischief heard his cries,
    And steep'd in sullen sleep his rheumy eyes.
    He slept--but rested not, his guardian sprite
    Rose to his view in visions of the night,
    And thus, with many a tear and many a sigh,
    He heard, or seem'd to hear, the mimic demon cry:--[25]
    "Is this a time for distant strife to pray,
    When all my power is melting fast away,
    Like mists dissolving at the beams of day,
    When masters dare their ancient rights resume,
    And bold intruders fill the common room,
    Whilst thou, poor wretch, forsaken, shunn'd by all,
    Must pick thy commons in the empty hall?
    Nay more! regardless of thy hours and thee,
    They scorn the ancient, frugal hour of three.[26]
    Good Heavens! at four their costly treat is spread,
    And juniors lord it at the table's head;
    See fellows' benches sleeveless striplings bear,[27]
    Whilst Smith and Sutton from the canvass stare.[28]
    Hear'st thou through all this consecrated ground,
    The rattling thong's unwonted clangour sound?
    Awake! arise! though many a danger lour,
    By one bright deed to vindicate thy power."
    He ceased; as loud the fatal whip resounds,
    With throbbing heart the eager Doctor bounds.
    So when some bear from Russia's clime convey'd,
    Politer grown, has learnt the dancer's trade,
    If weary with his toil perchance, he hears
    His master's lash re-echoing in his ears,
    Though loath, he lifts his paws, and bounds in air,
    And hops and rages whilst the rabble stare.

CANTO THE SECOND.

    You the great foe of this Assembly!
    I the great foe? Why the great foe?
    In that being one of the meanest, barest, poorest,
    ----Thou goest foremost.--SHAKSPEARE'S Coriolanus.

    Forth from his cell the wily warrior hies,
    And swift to seize the unwary victim flies.
    For sure he deem'd, since now declining day
    Had dimn'd the brightness of his visual ray,
    He deem'd on helpless under-graduate foes
    To purge the bile that in his liver rose.
    Fierce schemes of vengeance in his bosom swell,
    Jobations dire, and Impositions fell.
    And now a cross he'd meditate, and swear[29]
    Six ells of Virgil should the crime repair.[30]
    Along the grass with heedless haste he trod,[31]
    And with unequal footsteps press'd the sod--
    That hallow'd sod, that consecrated ground,
    By eclogues, fines, and crosses fenced around.
    When lo! he sees, yet scarcely can believe,
    The destined victim wears a master's sleeve;
    So when those heroes, Britain's pride and care,
    In dark Batavian meadows urge the war;
    Oft as they roam'd, in fogs and darkness lost,
    They found a Frenchman what they deem'd a post.
    The Doctor saw; and, filled with wild amaze,
    He fix'd on P----t[32] his quick convulsive gaze.
    Thus shrunk the trembling thief, when first he saw,
    Hung high in air, the waving Abershaw.[33]
    Thus the pale bawd, with agonizing heart,
    Shrieks when she hears the beadle's rumbling cart.
    "And oh! what noise," he cries, "what sounds unblest,
    Presume to break a senior's holy rest?[34]
    Full well you know, who thus my anger dare,
    To horse-whips what antipathy I bear.
    Shall I, in vain, immersed in logic lore,
    O'er Saunderson and Allrick try to pore--
    I, who the major to the minor join,
    And prove conclusively that seven's not nine?
    With expectation big, and hope elate,
    The critic world my learned labours wait:
    And shall not Strabo then respect command,
    And shall not Strabo stay thy insulting hand?
    Strabo![35] whose pages, eighteen years and more,
    Have been my public shame, my private bore?
    Hence, to thy room, audacious wretch! retire,
    Nor think thy sleeves shall save thee from mine ire."
    He spoke; such fury sparkled in his face,
    The Buttery trembled to its tottering base,
    The frighted rats in corners laid them down,
    And all but P----t was daunted at his frown;
    Firm and intrepid stood the reverend man,
    As thrice he stroked his face, and thus began:
    "And hopest thou then," the injured Bernard said,
    "To launch thy thunders on a master's head?
    O, wont to deal the trope and dart the fist,
    Half-learn'd logician, half-form'd pugilist,
    Censor impure, who dar'st, with slanderous aim,
    And envy's dart, assault a H----r's name.
    Senior, self-called, can I forget the day,
    When titt'ring under-graduates mock'd thy sway,
    And drove thee foaming from the Hall away?
    Gods, with what raps the conscious tables rung,
    From every form how shrill the cuckoo sung![36]
    Oh! sounds unblest--Oh! notes of deadliest fear--
    Harsh to the tutor's or the lover's ear,
    The hint, perchance, thy warmest hopes may quell,
    And cuckoo mingle with the thoughts of Bel."[37]
    At that loved name, with fury doubly keen,
    Fierce on the Deacon rush'd the raging Dean;
    Nor less the dauntless Deacon dare withstand
    The brandish'd weight of Toe's uplifted hand.
    [38]The ghost of themes departed, that, of yore,
    Disgraced alike, the Doctor praised or tore,
    On paper wings flit dimly through the night,
    And, hovering low in air, beheld the fight.
    Each ill-starr'd verse its filthy den forsakes,
    Black from the spit, or reeking from the jakes;
    The blot-stain'd troop their shadowy pages spread,
    And call for vengeance on the murderer's head.

CANTO THE THIRD.

    digito male pertinaci.--Hor.

    [39]Shade of Boileau! (who told in deathless lays
    A choral pulpit's military praise,)
    Thou, too, that dared'st a cloister'd warfare sing,
    And dip thy bucket in Castalia's spring!
    Forgive, blest bards, if, with unequal fire,
    I feebly strike the imitative lyre;
    Though strong to celebrate no vulgar fray,
    Since P----t and conquest swell the exulting lay.
      Not link'd, alas in friendship's sacred band,
    With hands fast lock'd the furious parsons stand;
    Each grasps the whip with unrelenting might--
    The whip, the cause and guerdon of the fight--
    But either warrior spends his strength in vain,
    And panting draws his lengthen'd breath with pain,
    Till now the Dean, with throat extended wide,
    And faltering shout, for speedy succour cried
    [40]To them who in yon grateful cell repose,
    Where Greenland odours feast the stranger's nose--
    "Scouts, porters, shoe-blacks, whatsoe'er your trade,
    All, all, attend, your master's fist to aid!"
    They heard his voice, and, trembling at the sound,
    The half-breech'd legions swarm'd like moths around;
    But, ah! the half-breech'd legions, call'd in vain,
    Dismay'd and useless, fill'd the cumber'd plain;
    And while for servile aid the Doctor calls,
    [41]By P----t subverted, prone to earth he sprawls.
    [42]E'en then were heard, so Brazenose students sing,
    The grass-plot chains in boding notes to ring;
    E'en then we mark'd, where, gleaming through the night,
    Aerial crosses shed a lurid light.
    Those wrestlers, too, whom naked we behold
    Through many a summer's night and winter's cold,
    Now changed appear'd, his pristine languor fled,
    Expiring Abel raised his sinking head,
    While with fix'd eyes his murderer seemed to stand,
    The bone half dropping from his nerveless hand.
    So, when of old, as Latian records tell,
    At Pompey's base the laurel'd despot fell,
    Reviving freedom mock'd her sinking foe,
    And demons shriek'd as Brutus dealt the blow.
    His trencher-bonnet tumbling from his crown,
    Subdued by Bernard, sunk the Doctor down;
    But yet, though breathless on the hostile plain,
    The whip he could not seize he snapt in twain--
    "Where now, base themester,"--P----t exulting said,
    And waved the rattling fragments o'er his head--
    "Where now thy threats? Yet learn from me to know
    How glorious 'tis to spare a fallen foe.
    Uncudgel'd, rise--yet hear my high command--
    [43]Hence to thy room! or dread thy conqueror's hand."
    [44]His hair all gravel, and all green his clothes,
    In doleful dumps the downcast Doctor rose,
    Then slunk unpitied from the hated plain,
    And inly groaning sought his couch again;
    Yet, as he went, he backward cast his view,
    And bade his ancient power a last adieu.
    So, when some sturdy swain through miry roads
    A grunting porker to the market goads,
    With twisted neck, splash'd hide, and progress slow,
    Oft backward looks the swine, and half disdains to go.
    "Ah me! how fallen," with choaking sobs he said,
    And sunk exhausted on his welcome bed;
    "Ere yet my shame, wide-circling through the town,
    Spreads from the strong contagion of the gown,
    Oh! be it mine, unknowing and unknown,
    [45]With deans deceased, to sleep beneath the stone."
    As tearful thus, and half convulsed with spite,
    He lengthen'd out with plaints the livelong night,
    At that still hour of night, when dreams are oft'nest true,
    A well-known spectre rose before his view,
    As in some lake, when hush'd in every breeze,
    The bending ape his form reflected sees,[46]
    Such and so like the Doctor's angel shone,
    And by his gait the guardian sprite was known,
    Benignly bending o'er his aching head--
    "Sleep, Henry, sleep, my best beloved," he said,[47]
    "Soft dreams of bliss shall soothe thy midnight hour;
    Connubial transport and collegiate power.
    Fly fast, ye months, till Henry shall receive
    The joys a bride and benefice can give.
    But first to sanction thy prophetic name,
    In yon tall pile a doctor's honours claim;[48]
    E'en now methinks the awe-struck crowd behold
    Thy powder'd caxon and thy cane of gold.
    E'en now--but hark! the chimney sparrows sing,
    St Mary's chimes their early matins ring--
    I go--but thou----through many a festive night
    Collegiate bards shall chant thy luckless fight--
    Though many a jest shall spread the table round,
    And many a bowl to B----r----d's health be crown'd--
    O'er juniors still maintain thy dread command,
    Still boast, my son, thy cross-compelling hand.[49]
    Adieu!"--His shadowy robes the phantom spread,
    And o'er the Doctor drowsy influence shed;
    Scared at the sound, far off his terrors flew,
    And love and hope once more his curtains drew.

[Footnote 18: In the quadrangle of Brazenose College, there is a statue of Cain destroying
Abel with a bone, or some such instrument. It is of lead, and white-washed, and no doubt that
those who have heard that Cain was struck black, will be surprised to find that in Brazenose
he is white as innocence.]

[Footnote 19: All the world has rung with the fame of Roger Bacon, formerly of this college,
and of his exploits in astrology, chemistry, and metallurgy, inter alia his brazen head, of
which alone the nose remains, a precious relic, and (to use the words of the excellent author
of the Oxford Guide) still conspicuous over the portal, where it erects itself as a symbolical
illustration of the Salernian adage "Noscitur a naso."]

[Footnote 20: Two medallions of Alfred and Erigena ornament the outside of the Hall, so as
to overlook the field of battle.]

[Footnote 21: The Porter of the college.]

[Footnote 22: The doctor's servant or scout.]

[Footnote 23: Two wine-merchants residing in Oxford.]

[Footnote 24: To those gentlemen who, for half an hour together, have sometimes had the honour
of waiting in the Doctor's antechamber, "Donec libeat vigilare tyranno," this passage will
need no explanation; and of his acts of graceful dignity and unaffected piety at chapel, perhaps
the less that is said the better.]

[Footnote 25: It was a Rosicrucian tenet, that the demon was assimilated to the object of his
care; and in this we are confirmed by the authority of the Doctor himself, who treated very
largely on the subject of demons in his lecture on Plato's Phædon. The powers of his mind were
never more successfully displayed than when he illustrated his positions by the scriptural
instance of the two Galilean demoniacs, who abode in the tombs night and day. It was reserved
for his ingenuity and learning to discover that those unfortunate Bedlamites were not mortals,
but departed spirits.]

[Footnote 26: The real friend of collegiate discipline, whose feelings our author would blush
to offend, will be pleased to recollect that this deviation from the usual dinner hour took
place in the long vacation; that it was introduced for the convenience of study, and that the
doctor, could he so far have forgotten his dignity as to have joined the four o'clock party,
would have found decorous manners, and more than one brother fellow of the company.]

[Footnote 27: Wisely was it ordained by our founders, that, young men being too apt to laugh
in their sleeves at the conduct of their superiors, the academical dress of the under-graduates
should, as far as possible, obviate that inconvenience. Thus, also, Tully hath it, "Cedant
arma togæ."]

[Footnote 28: The two founders of Brazenose College.]

[Footnote 29: It is necessary to explain to non-academic readers, that it is customary for
the tutor of a college to put an X opposite the name of an offending member in the Buttery
Book, as it is called, by which he is interdicted from having bread buttered, a kind of excommunication.]

[Footnote 30: For the meaning of this expression we refer the reader to the most preposterous
imposition ever known in the annals of collegiate punishment; the original MS. of which is
preserved in the museum of an eminent collector in Kent. In short, as in Cambridge they sell
their butter by the yard, so at Brazenose the cloth measure has been applied with singular
success to the works of genius; and perhaps the system may be so far improved upon, that a
future under-graduate may have to toil through a furlong of Strabo, or a perch of logic.]

[Footnote 31: This alludes to the hobbling gait of the Doctor, in consequence of the defect
in his foot.]

[Footnote 32: The Rev. B----d P----t.]

[Footnote 33: Alluding to a notorious malefactor, executed about this times and hung in chains
on Wimbledon Common.]

[Footnote 34: Prophetically spoken, as the Doctor was then only a junior fellow.]

[Footnote 35: The Doctor, finding that Horace prescribed a nine years' delay for play or poem,
inferred that more than twice that time was necessary for the learned labours of the editor
of Strabo.]

[Footnote 36: For the wonderful answers of the learned cuckoo, at logic lecture, we refer to
his (the cuckoo's) equally edified class-fellows.]

[Footnote 37: The reader will perhaps be astonished to find, that the Doctor as supposed to
flatter himself with the hope that his attentions were not altogether unacceptable to a young
lady of singular elegance and personal accomplishments, here alluded to.]

[Footnote 38: "Obscoenæque volucres signa dabant."]

[Footnote 39: The poet invokes his heroi-comic predecessors, the author of the Lutrin, and
Alessandro Tassoni, whose Secchia Rapita, or Rape of the Bucket, is well known to the amateurs
of Italian poetry.]

[Footnote 40: No classical stranger could ever pass the porter in his
lodge at Brazenose, without being sensibly reminded of a favourite
passage in Horace, and exclaiming,
    "Quis multà gracilis--puer in rosâ,
    Perfusus liquidis--odoribus
    Grato----sub antro."
]

[Footnote 41: "Procumbit humi bos."

ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF CULLODEN.

    Take away that star and garter--hide them from my loathing sight,
    Neither king nor prince shall tempt me from my lonely room this night;
    Fitting for the throneless exile is the atmosphere of pall,
    And the gusty winds that shiver 'neath the tapestry on the wall.
    When the taper faintly dwindles like the pulse within the vein,
    That to gay and merry measure ne'er may hope to bound again,
    Let the shadows gather round me while I sit in silence here,
    Broken-hearted, as an orphan watching by his father's bier.
    Let me hold my still communion far from every earthly sound--
    Day of penance--day of passion--ever, as the year comes round.
    Fatal day whereon the latest die was cast for me and mine--
    Cruel day, that quell'd the fortunes of the hapless Stuart line!
    Phantom-like, as in a mirror, rise the griesly scenes of death--
    There before me, in its wildness, stretches bare Culloden's heath--
    There the broken clans are scatter'd, gaunt as wolves, and famine-eyed--
    Hunger gnawing at their vitals--hope abandon'd--all but pride--
    Pride--and that supreme devotion which the Southron never knew,
    And the hatred, deeply rankling, 'gainst the Hanoverian crew.
    Oh, my God! are these the remnants--these the wrecks of the array,
    That around the royal standard gather'd on the glorious day,
    When, in deep Glenfinnart's valley, thousands, on their bended knees,
    Saw once more that stately banner waving in the northern breeze,
    When the noble Tullibardine stood beneath its weltering fold,
    With the ruddy lion ramping in the field of treasured gold!
    When the mighty heart of Scotland, all too big to slumber more,
    Burst in wrath and exultation, like a huge volcano's roar!
    There they stand, the batter'd columns, underneath the murky sky,
    In the hush of desperation, not to conquer but to die.
    Hark! the bagpipe's fitful wailing--not the pibroch loud and shrill,
    That, with hope of bloody banquet, lured the ravens from the hill--
    But a dirge both low and solemn, fit for ears of dying men,
    Marshall'd for their latest battle, never more to fight again.
    Madness--madness! Why this shrinking? Were we less inured to war
    When our reapers swept the harvest from the field of red Dunbar?
    Fetch my horse, and blow the trumpet!--Call the riders of Fitz-James,
    Let Lord Lewis bring the muster!--Valiant chiefs of mighty names--
    Trusty Keppoch! stout Glengarry! gallant Gordon! wise Lochiel!
    Bid the clansmen charge together, fast, and fell, and firm as steel.
    Elcho, never look so gloomy! What avails a sadden'd brow?
    Heart, man--heart! we need it sorely--never half so much as now.
    Had we but a thousand troopers--had we but a thousand more!----
    Noble Perth, I hear them coming!--Hark! the English cannons' roar.
    God! how awful sounds that volley, bellowing through the mist and rain!
    Was not that the Highland slogan? Let me hear that shout again!
    Oh, for prophet eyes to witness how the desperate battle goes!
    Cumberland! I would not fear thee, could my Camerons see their foe.
    Sound, I say, the charge at venture--t'is not naked steel we fear;
    Better perish in the mêlée than be shot like driven deer!
    Hold! the mist begins to scatter. There in front 'tis rent asunder,
    And the cloudy battery crumbles underneath the deafening thunder;
    There I see the scarlet gleaming! Now, Macdonald--now or never!--
    Woe is me, the clans are broken! Father, thou art lost for ever!
    Chief and vassal, lord and yeoman, there they lie in heaps together,
    Smitten by the deadly volley, rolled in blood upon the heather;
    And the Hanoverian horsemen, fiercely riding to and fro,
    Deal their murderous strokes at random.--
                  Ah my God! where am I now?
    Will that baleful vision never vanish from my aching sight?
    Must those scenes and sounds of terror haunt me still by day and night?
    Yea, the earth hath no oblivion for the noblest chance it gave,
    None, save in its latest refuge--seek it only in the grave.
    Love may die, and hatred slumber, and their memory will decay,
    As the water'd garden recks not of the drought of yesterday;
    But the dream of power once broken, what shall give repose again?
    What shall charm the serpent-furies coil'd around the maddening brain?
    What kind draught can nature offer strong enough to lull their sting?
    Better to be born a peasant than to live an exiled king!
    Oh, these years of bitter anguish!--What is life to such as me,
    With my very heart as palsied as a wasted cripple's knee!
    Suppliant-like for alms depending on a false and foreign court,
    Jostled by the flouting nobles, half their pity, half their sport.
    Forced to hold a place in pageant, like a royal prize of war
    Walking with dejected features close behind his victor's car,
    Styled an equal--deem'd a servant--fed with hopes of future gain--
    Worse by far is fancied freedom than the captive's clanking chain!
    Could I change this gilded bondage even for the massy tower
    Whence King James beheld his lady sitting in the castle bower--
    Birds around her sweetly singing, fluttering on the kindled spray,
    And the comely garden glowing in the light of rosy May.
    Love descended to the window--Love removed the bolt and bar--
    Love was warder to the lovers from the dawn to even-star.
    Wherefore, Love, didst thou betray me? Where is now the tender glance?
    Where the meaning looks once lavish'd by the dark-eyed Maid of France?
    Where the words of hope she whisper'd, when around my neck she threw
    That same scarf of broider'd tissue, bade me wear it and be true--
    Bade me send it as a token when my banner waved once more
    On the castled Keep of London, where my fathers' waved before?
    And I went and did not conquer--but I brought it back again--
    Brought it back from storm and battle--brought it back without stain;
    And once more I knelt before her, and I laid it at her feet,
    Saying, "Wilt thou own it, Princess? There at least is no defeat!"
    Scornfully she look'd upon me with a measured eye and cold--
    Scornfully she view'd the token, though her fingers wrought the gold,
    And she answer'd, faintly flushing, "Hast thou kept it, then, so long?
    Worthy matter for a minstrel to be told in knightly song!
    Worthy of a bold Provençal, pacing through the peaceful plain,
    Singing of his lady's favour, boasting of her silken chain,
    Yet scarce worthy of a warrior sent to wrestle for a crown.
    Is this all that thou hast brought me from thy field of high renown?
    Is this all the trophy carried from the lands where thou hast been?
    It was broider'd by a Princess, can'st thou give it to a Queen?"
    Backwards--backwards let me wander to the noble northern land;
    Let me feel the breezes blowing fresh along the mountain side;
    Let me see the purple heather, let me hear the thundering tide,
    Be it hoarse as Corrievreckan spouting when the storm is high--
    Give me but one hour of Scotland--let me see it ere I die!
    Oh, my heart is sick and heavy--southern gales are not for me;
    Though the glens are white with winter, place me there, and set me free;
    Give me back my trusty comrades--give me back my Highland maid--
    Nowhere beats the heart so kindly as beneath the tartan plaid!
    Flora! when thou wert beside me, in the wilds of far Kintail--
    When the cavern gave us shelter from the blinding sleet and hail--
    When we lurk'd within the thicket, and, beneath the waning moon,
    Saw the sentry's bayonet glimmer, heard him chant his listless tune--
    When the howling storm o'ertook us drifting down the island's lee,
    And our crazy bark was whirling like a nutshell on the sea--
    When the nights were dark and dreary, and amidst the fern we lay
    Faint and foodless, sore with travel, longing for the streaks of day;
    When thou wert an angel to me, watching my exhausted sleep--
    Never didst thou hear me murmur--couldst thou see how now I weep!
    Bitter tears and sobs of anguish, unavailing though they be.
    Oh the brave--the brave and noble--who have died in vain for me!

W.E.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY GREEK ROMANCES--THE ETHIOPICS OF HELIODORUS.

"It is not in Provence, (Provincia Romanorum,) as is commonly said from the derivation of the
name--nor yet in Spain, as many suppose, that we are to look for the fatherland of those amusing
compositions called Romances, which are so eminently useful in these days as affording a resource
and occupation to ladies and gentlemen who have nothing to do. It is in distant and far different
climes to our own, and in the remote antiquity of long vanished ages:--it is among the people
of the East, the Arabs, the Egyptians, the Persians, and the Syrians, that the germ and origin
is to be found of this species of fictitious narrative, for which the peculiar genius and poetical
temperament of those nations particularly adapt them, and in which they delight to a degree
scarcely to be credited. For even their ordinary discourse is interspersed with figurative
expressions; and their maxims of theology and philosophy, and above all, of morals and political
science, are invariably couched under the guise of allegory or parable. I need not stay to
enlarge upon the universal veneration paid throughout the East to the fables of Bidpai or Pilpay,
and to Lokman, who is (as may easily be shown) the Esop of the Greeks:--and it is well known
that the story of Isfendiyar, and of the daring deeds of the Persian hero Rustan, in love and
war,[50] are to this day more popular in those regions than the tales of Hercules, Roland,
or Amadis de Gaul, ever were with us. And so decidedly is Asia the parent of these fictions,
that we shall find on examination, that nearly all those who in early times distinguished themselves
as writers of what are now called romances, were of oriental birth or extraction. Clearchus,
a pupil of Aristotle, and the first who attempted any thing of the sort in the Greek language,
was a native of Soli in Cilicia:--Jamblichus was a Syrian, as were also Heliodorus and Lucian,
the former being of Emessa, the latter of Samosata:--Achilles Tatius was an Alexandrian; and
the rule will be found to hold good in other instances, with scarcely a single exception."

[Footnote 50: The exploits of these and other paladins of the Kaianian dynasty, the heroic
age of Persian history, are now known to us principally through the Shah-Nameh of Ferdousi,
a poem bearing date only at the beginning of the eleventh century; but both this and its predecessor,
the Bostan-Nameh, were founded on ballads and [Greek: rhapsôdiai] of far distant ages, which
had escaped the ravages of time and the Mohammedans, and some of which are even now preserved
among the ancient tribes of pure Persian descent, in the S.W. provinces of the kingdom. Sir
John Malcolm (History of Persia, ii. 444, note, 8vo. ed.,) gives an amusing anecdote of the
effect produced among his escort by one of these popular chants.]

Such is the doctrine laid down (at somewhat greater length than we have rendered it) by the
learned Huetius, in his treatise De Origine Fabularum Romanensium; and from the general principle
therein propounded, we are certainly by no means inclined to dissent. But while fully admitting
that it is to the vivid fancy and picturesque imagination of the Orientals that we owe the
origin of all those popular legends which have penetrated, under various changes of costume,
into every corner of Europe,[51] as well as those more gorgeous creations which appear, interwoven
with the ruder creations of the northern nations, to have furnished the groundwork of the fabliaux
and lais of the chivalry of the middle ages:--we still hold that the invention of the romance
of ordinary life, in which the interest of the story depends upon occurrences in some measure
within the bounds of probability, and in which the heroes and heroines are neither invested
with superhuman qualities, nor extricated from their difficulties by supernatural means, must
be ascribed to a more European state of society than that which produced those tales of wonder,
which are commonly considered as characteristic of the climes of the East. Even the authors
enumerated by the learned bishop of Avranches himself, in the passage above quoted, were all
denizens of the Greek cities of Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt, and consequently, in all probability,
Greeks by descent; and though the scene of their works is frequently laid in Asia, the costumes
and characters introduced are almost invariably on the Greek model. These writers, therefore,
may fairly be considered as constituting a distinct class from those more strictly Oriental,
not only in birth, but in language and ideas; and as being, in fact, the legitimate forerunners
of that portentous crowd of modern novelists, whose myriad productions seem destined (as the
Persians believe of the misshapen progeny of Gog and Magog, confined within the brazen wall
of Iskender,) to over-run the world of literature in these latter days.

[Footnote 51: The prototype of the well-known Welsh legend of Beth-Gelert, for instance, is
found in the Sanscrit Hitopadosa, as translated by Sir William Jones, with a mere change in
the dramatis personæ--the faithful hound Gelert becoming a tame mungoos or ichneumon, the wolf
a cabra-capello, and the young heir of the Welsh prince an infant rajah.]

At the head of this early school of romantic writers, in point of merit as of time, (for the
writings of Lucian can scarcely be considered as regular romances; and the "Babylonica" of
Jamblichus, and the "Dinias and Dercyllis" of Antonius Diogenes, are known to us only by the
abstract of them preserved in Photius,) we may, without hesitation, place Heliodorus, the author
of the "Ethiopics," "whose writings"--says Huetius--"the subsequent novelists of those ages
constantly proposed to themselves as a model for imitation; and as truly may they all be said
to have drunk of the waters of this fountain, as all the poets did of the Homeric spring."
To so servile an extent, indeed, was this imitation carried, that while both the incidents
and characters in the "Clitophon and Leucippe" of Achilles Tatius, a work which, in point of
literary merit, stands next to that of Heliodorus, are, in many passages, almost a reproduction,
with different names and localities,[52] of those in the "Ethiopics," the last-named has again
had his copyists in the "Hysminias and Hysmine" of Eustathius or Eumathius, and the "Dosicles
and Rhodanthe" of Theodorus Prodromus, the latter of whom was a monk of the twelfth century.
In these productions of the lower empire, the extravagance of the language, the improbability
of the plot, and the wearisome dullness of the details, are worthy of each other; and are only
varied occasionally by a little gross indelicacy, from which, indeed, none but Heliodorus is
wholly exempt. Yet, "as in the lowest deep there is a lower still," so even Theodorus Prodromus
has found an humble imitator in Nicetas Eugenianus, than whose romance of "Charicles and Drosilla"
it must be allowed that the force of nonsense "can no further go." Besides this descending
scale of plagiarism, which we have followed down to its lowest anti-climax, we should mention,
for the sake of making our catalogue complete, the "Pastorals, or Daphnis and Chloe" of Longus--a
work in itself of no particular merits or demerits as a literary composition, but noted for
its unparalleled depravity, and further remarkable as the first of the class of pastoral romances,
which were almost as rife in Europe during the middle ages as novels of fashionable life are,
for the sins of this generation, at the present day. There only remain to be enumerated the
three precious farragos entitled "The Ephesiacs, or Habrocomas and Anthia"--"the Babylonics"--and
"the Cypriacs"--said to be from the pen of three different Xenophons, of whose history nothing,
not even the age in which any of them lived, can be satisfactorily made out--though the uniformity
of stupid extravagance, not less than the similarity of name, would lead à priori to the conclusion
that one luckless wight must have been the author of all three. From this list of the Byzantine
romances, (in which we are not sure that one or two may not after all have been omitted,) it
will be seen that Heliodorus had a tolerably numerous progeny, even in his own language, to
answer for; though we fear we must concur in the sweeping censure of a Quarterly Reviewer,
(vol. x. p. 301,) who condemns then en masse, with the single exception of the "Ethiopics"
of the last-named author, as "a few tiresome stories, absolutely void of taste, invention,
or interest; without influence even upon the declining literature of their own age, and in
all probability quite unknown to the real forerunners of Richardson, Fielding, and Rousseau."

[Footnote 52: The principal adventures of Clitophon and Leucippe consist in being twice taken
by pirates on the banks of the Nile, as Theagenes and Chariclea are in the Ethiopics.]

A work thus excepted, by common consent, from the general reprobation is which all its compeers
are involved, must deserve some notice from its negative, if not from its positive merits;
and the particulars which have been preserved of its literary history are also somewhat curious.
Even in these days, when almost every other individual is a novelist, either in esse or in
embryo, the announcement of a love-story from the pen of a bishop would create what is called
"a considerable sensation"--though perhaps it would hardly draw down on the author such condign
and summary punishment as was inflicted by the straitlaced Kirk of Scotland, less than a century
ago, on one of her ministers, for the high crime and misdemeanour of having indited "a stage
play, called the Tragedy of Douglas."[53] Yet not only the "Ethiopics," but the best known
of its successors, the "Clitophon and Leucippe" of Achilles Tatius, are both universally asserted
to have been juvenile productions of ecclesiastics who afterwards attained the episcopal dignity:
and the former, if we may credit the Ecclesiastical History of Nicephorus, fared not much better
at the hands of the Provincial Synod of Thessaly than did the "Tragedy of Douglas" at those
of the Scottish Presbyteries. Hear what saith the historian: "This Heliodorus, bishop of Trica,
had in his youth written certain love-stories called the "Ethiopics," which are highly popular
even at the present day, though they are now better known by the title of 'Chariclea'"--(the
name of the heroine)--"and it was by reason thereof that he lost his see. For, inasmuch as
very many of the youth were drawn into peril of sin by the perusal of these amorous tales,
it was determined by the provincial synod that either these books, which kindled the fire of
love, should themselves be consumed by fire, or that the author should be deposed from his
episcopal functions--and this choice being propounded to him, he preferred resigning his bishopric
to suppressing his writings."--(Niceph. Hist. Ecclesiast. lib. xii. c. 34.)[54] Heliodorus,
according to the same authority, was the first Thessalian bishop who had insisted on the married
clergy putting away their wives, which may probably have tended to make him unpopular: but
the story of his deposition, it should be observed, rests solely on the statement of Nicephorus,
and is discredited by Bayle and Huet, who argue that the silence of Socrates (Ecclesiast. Hist.
v. chap. 22.) in the passage where he expressly assigns the authorship of the "Ethiopics" to
the Bishop Heliodorus, more than counterbalances the unsupported assertion of Nicephorus--"an
author," says Huet, "of more credulity than judgment." If Heliodorus were, indeed, as has been
generally supposed, the same to whom several of the Epistles of St Jerome were addressed, this
circumstance would supply an additional argument against the probability of his having incurred
the censures of the church: but whatever the testimony of Nicephorus may be worth on this point,
his mention of the work affords undeniable proof of its long continued popularity, as his Ecclesiastical
History was written about A.D. 900, and Heliodorus lived under the reign of the sons of Theodosius,
or fully five hundred years earlier. Enough, however, has been said of him in his capacity
of a bishop--and we shall proceed to consider him in that of an author, by which he is far
better known than by episcopacy.

[Footnote 53: Home was expelled the ministry for this heinous offence, which raised a fearful
turmoil at the time among Synods and Presbyteries. The Glasgow Presbytery published a declaration
(Feb. 14, 1757) on the "melancholy but notorious fact, that one, who is a minister of the Church
of Scotland, did himself write and compose a stage play intitled the Tragedy of Douglas;" and
to this declaration various other presbyteries published their adhesion.]

[Footnote 54: This sentence might, with more justice, have been visited upon the work of the
other bishop, Achilles Tatius, for his not infrequent transgressions against delicacy, a fault
never chargeable on Heliodorus.]

The time of the story is laid in the middle ages of Grecian history, after the conclusion of
the wars between Greece and Persia, and while Egypt was still governed by the satraps of the
great king; and the first scene at once plunges the reader, in accordance with the Horatian
precept, in medias res. A band of marauders, prowling on the coast of Egypt, are surprised
by the sight of a ship moored to the shore without any one on board, while the beach around
is strewed with the fragments of a costly banquet, and with a number of dead bodies of men,
slain apparently in mutual conflict; the only survivors being a damsel of surpassing beauty,
arrayed as a priestess of Diana, who is wailing over the inanimate form of a wounded youth.
Before they have time however, either to unravel the mystery, or to avail themselves of the
booty, thus unexpectedly spread before them, they are in turn put to flight by a more numerous
party of robbers, or rather buccaneers, (bucoli or herdsmen,) who carry off the forlorn couple
to their retreat, in the inner-most recesses of a vast lake or morass, near the Heracleotic
mouth of the Nile.[55] The description of this robber-colony appears to have been drawn from
an existing or well-remembered state of things, and bears considerable resemblance, except
in the presence of women and children, to a setsha, or stronghold, of the Zaporog Cossacks
in the islets of the Dniepr.

[Footnote 55: This is usually called the Canopia mouth; but Herodotus (who says that it was
dug by artificial means) calls it the Bucolic, perhaps from the haunts above described in its
neighbourhood.]

"This whole region is called by the Egyptians the Bucolia, or 'pasturages,' and is a tract
of low land, which has been converted by the inundations of the Nile into a lake, of great
depth in the middle, and gradually shoaling towards the margins into a marsh. Among this labyrinth
of lakes and morasses, all the robber-community of Egypt hold their commonwealth; some building
huts wherever there is enough of dry land for the purpose, and others living wholly on board
their boats, which serve them for a home, as well as to transport them from place to place.
In these narrow craft their children are born and brought up, tied by a cord round their foot,
in their infancy, to keep them from falling overboard, and tasting for their first food, after
being weaned, the fish of the lake dried in the sun. Thus, many of these buccaneers are natives
of the lake itself, which they regard as their country and their fortress; and they also receive
among them many recruits of the same sort as themselves. The waters serve them for a defence,
and they are further fortified by the vast quantity of reeds overgrowing the borders of the
lake, through which they have contrived certain narrow winding paths known only to themselves,
to guard them against sudden incursions from without."

The chief, Thyamis, is forthwith desperately smitten by the charms of Chariclea, and announces,
in a set speech to his followers, when assembled for the division of the booty, his intention
of taking her to wife. The heroine, as usual with heroines in such trying circumstances, feigns
compliance, stipulating only for the delay of the ceremony till she could deposit her sacred
ornaments in a temple; a request which Thyamis--who, by the way, is no vulgar depredator, but
an Egyptian of rank, who has been deprived of an hereditary[56] priesthood, and driven into
hiding, by the baseness of a younger brother--is too well bred to refuse. The beautiful captive
is accordingly, (with Theagenes, whom she calls her brother,) given in charge, for the time,
to an Athenian prisoner named Cnemon, who had been driven into exile by the vindictive artifices
of his step-mother and her confidante, and the recital of whose adventures (apparently borrowed
from those of Hippolitus) occupies a considerable space at this juncture, without much advancing
the story. On the following day, however, the settlement is attacked by an irresistible force,
guided by the gang who had been driven from their prey on the beach. Thyamis, after performing
prodigies of valour, is taken prisoner; and Theagenes and Chariclea, with Cnemon, escaping
in the confusion, find themselves alone in an island of the lake. Cnemon, as being best acquainted
with the language and the surrounding country, is sent the next day to the main land, to make
discoveries, accompanied by Thermuthis, the buccanier lieutenant, who had returned when the
fray was over, in hopes of recovering a fair captive of his own. The object of his search,
however, who proves to be no other than Thisbe, the treacherous soubrette through whom Cnemon's
misfortunes had arisen, had been slain by accident in the conflict; and Thermuthis, whose suspicions
had been awakened by the joy expressed by Cnemon, is meditating the murder of his fellow-traveller,
when he opportunely perishes by the bite of an asp. Cnemon, continuing on his way,[57] reaches
the margin of the Nile opposite the town of Chemmis, and there encounters a venerable personage,
who, wrapt in deep thought, is pensively pacing the banks of the river. This old Egyptian priest,
(for such he proves to be,) Calasiris by name, not only takes the abrupt intrusion of Cnemon
in perfect good part, but carries his complaisance so far as to invite him to the house of
a friend of whom he is himself a guest, and the honours of whose mansion he is doing in the
temporary absence of the owner. This obliging offer is, of course, accepted with great alacrity;
and, in the course of after-dinner conversation, the incidental mention by Calasiris of the
names of Theagenes and Chariclea, and the consequent enquiries of Cnemon, who recognises them
as those of his late fellow captives, lead to a long episodical narration from the old gentleman,
during which Cnemon, in return for the hospitality and confidence thus unexpectedly shown him,
displays most enviable powers as a listener, and which, in a great measure, unfolds the plot
to the reader.

[Footnote 56: The hereditary succession of the Egyptian priesthood is stated both by Herodotus
and Diodorus; but Sir J.G. Wilkinson (Manners of the Ancient Egyptians, i. 262,) believe that,
"though a priest was son of a priest, the peculiar office held by a son may sometimes have
been different in point of rank from that of his father."]

[Footnote 57: Before setting out on this expedition, he "reduces his hair to a more moderate
quantity than that usually worn by robbers." Thus, the Italian bravoes of the middle ages,
when they repented their evil ways, were wont to "shave the tuft," which was thrown over the
face as a disguise; hence the phrase, radere il ciuffo, still used as synonymous with becoming
an honest man. See Manzoni's well-known romance of "I Promessi Sposi."]

It appears that Persina, consort of Hydaspes, King of Ethiopia, had given birth, in consequence
of one of those accidents which will sometimes happen in the best regulated families, to a
white or fair-complexioned daughter;[58] and dreading lest the hue of her offspring, unusual
in that country, might draw on herself suspicions which might expose her to certain pains and
penalties, she secretly committed the infant to the care of Sisimithres, an officer of the
court, placing at the same time in his hands, as tokens by which she might afterwards be recognised,
various costly ornaments, especially a ring which had been given her by the king at their nuptials,
bearing "the royal symbol engraven within a circle on the talismanic stone Pantarbé," and a
fillet on which was embroidered, in the Ethiopic character,[59] the story of the child's birth.
Under the guardianship of Sisimithres, she remained seven years; till, fearing for her safety
if she continued in Ethiopia, he took the opportunity of his being sent to Thebes as ambassador
from Hydaspes to the Satrap of Egypt, to transfer his charge, with the tokens attached to her,
to a priest of the Delphian Apollo, named Charicles, who was travelling in search of consolation
for domestic afflictions. Before Sisimithres, however, had time to explain the previous history
of the foundling, he was compelled to leave Egypt in haste; and Charicles, carrying her with
him on his return to his Grecian home, adopted her as his daughter, add gave her the name of
Chariclea. She grew up at Delphi a miracle of grace and beauty, dedicating herself to the service
of the temple, and obedient to the will of her supposed father in all points, except one, her
determination to lead a single life. At this juncture, Calasiris (who, as it now incidentally
transpires, is father of Thyamis and his rival-brother Petosiris) arrives at Delphi during
the celebration of the Pythian games, having found it expedient to absent himself from Egypt
for a time, for various family reasons, and more especially on account of the prediction of
an oracle, that he should live to see his two sons engaged with each other in mortal conflict.
A favourable response, vouchsafed to him by the Pythia from the tripod, at his entrance into
the fane of Apollo, having pointed him out as a personage of consideration, he is treated with
high distinction by Charicles, who confides to him the history of Chariclea, as far as he is
himself acquainted with it, and entreats him to dispose her, by those occult sciences in which
the Egyptian priests were supposed to be versed, to listen to the suit of his nephew Alcamenes,
whom he had destined for her husband. Calasiris promises compliance; but the scene is now changed
by the arrival of a magnificent deputation from the Ænianes, a noble tribe of Thessaly, headed
by a princely youth named Theagenes, who, as a reputed descendant of Achilles, has come to
sacrifice at the shrine of his ancestor Neoptolemus. The pomp and pageantry of the ceremonial
is described in vivid language, and with considerable effect; and as a specimen of our author's
manner, we shall quote the procession of the Thessalians to the temple.

     "In the van came the oxen destined for sacrifice, led by men of
     rustic guise and rude demeanour, each clad in a white tunic
     closely girt about him, with the right arm bare to the
     shoulder, and brandishing a double-headed axe. The oxen were
     all black without mixture, with massive necks low-hung dewlaps,
     and straight and even horns, which in some were gilt, in the
     others twined with garlands; and their number was neither more
     nor less than a hundred--a true hecatomb. Next followed the
     rest of the victims, each kind of animal kept separate and in
     order, and all marshalled to the sound of flutes and other wind
     instruments. Then appeared, in rich and flowing robes, and with
     their long locks floating loose on their shoulders, a band of
     the deep-zoned virgins of Thessaly, divided into two separate
     sets or choruses, the first of which bore baskets of flowers
     and ripe fruit, while those in the second carried salvers of
     sweetmeats and rich perfumes, which filled the air with the
     mingled fragrance breathing from them; but these light burdens
     were supported on their heads, thus leaving their hands free to
     be joined in the movements of the dance, to the slow and
     stately measure of which they advanced; while one chorus led
     the hymn, the strains of which were taken up by the other, in
     praise of Peleus and Thetis, their hero-son, and Neoptolemus
     and the other heroes of his race. The alternate rhythm of the
     chant keeping time with the fall of their footsteps, riveted
     the attention of the spectators, who seemed spell-bound by the
     sweet voices of the maidens, till the cavalcade which
     succeeded, flashing out from the crowd beyond, with their
     princely leader at their head, once more attracted all eyes to
     themselves. The troop consisted of fifty horsemen, who rode
     like guards in double file, twenty-five on each side of the
     chief, arrayed all alike in white cloaks with borders of azure
     embroidery, clasped across the breast with golden buckles, and
     with buskins laced above the ancle with scarlet thongs. Their
     steeds were all of that generous breed which the rich plains of
     Thessaly alone produce, and pawed the ground as if impatient of
     the bit by which their ardour was restrained by their riders;
     and the silver and gold which glittered on their frontlets and
     caparisons, showed the rivalry prevailing among these cavaliers
     in the splendour of the equipments, rather of their coursers
     than themselves. But it was on him who rode in the midst of
     this gallant party, eclipsing all his comrades as the glare of
     lightning seems to obscure all lesser luminaries, that the eyes
     of the gazing crowd were now fixed. He was completely armed at
     all points, except his head, and grasped in his hand an ashen
     lance; while a scarlet cloak, on which was depicted, in figures
     of gold tissue, the battle of the Centaurs with the Lapithæ,
     flowed loose over his panoply, and was fastened in front with a
     clasp, representing Pallas sculptured in amber, and holding
     before her the Gorgon's head on her shield. The breeze, which
     blew back his locks from his forehead, gave his features more
     fully to view; and even the horse which bore him seemed to move
     with a statelier gait, arching his neck and proudly caracoling,
     as if conscious of the noble presence of his master; while the
     admiration of the surrounding multitude burst out into a
     spontaneous shout of applause, and some of the women of the
     lower class even threw fruit and flowers towards him, in the
     hope, I suppose, of drawing on themselves a glance of
     acknowledgement from his eye."

[Footnote 58: The incidents of the birth of Chariclea have been copied by Tasso in the story
of Clorinda, as related to her by Arsete, in the 12th canto of "Gierusalemme Liberata." In
the "Shah-Nameh," also, Zal, the father of the Persian hero Rustan, being born with white hair,
is exposed by his father Sam on the mountain of Elborz, where he is preserved and brought up
by the giant-bird Simorgh.]

[Footnote 59: "In the royal character"--"[Greek: grammasin Aithiopikois oy dêmotikois, alla
basilikois]." This distinction between the royal and popular system of hieroglyphics, as well
as the etiquette, before mentioned, of inscribing the title of the king within a circle or
oval, is borrowed, as need hardly be mentioned, from the monuments of Egypt.]

The cavalier thus eulogized by Calasiris is of course Theagenes, who, after thrice encompassing
in due form the tomb of Neoptolemus, at length reaches the Temple of Apollo; but, during the
performance of the ceremonial, it falls to his lot to receive the torch with which the altar
is to be kindled from the hand of Chariclea, and love at first sight, mutual and instantaneous,
is the result. The aid of Calasiris is again invoked by both the lovers; and the good old gentleman,
whose knowledge of the Ethiopian hieroglyphics, by enabling him to decipher the mysterious
inscription on the fillet, has put him in possession of the true parentage of Chariclea, (which
he does not, however, communicate to Charicles,) at once resolves to contrive their elopement,
being further stimulated thereto by Apollo in a dream--the agency of dreams, it should be remarked,
being introduced on almost every possible occasion throughout the narrative, and their dictates
in all cases religiously acted upon by the parties interested. A passage is procured on board
a Phoenician ship opportunely lying in the Crissæan Gulf, the nearest point of the coast to
Delphi; and the abduction of Chariclea having been effected by apparent violence by the companions
of Theagenes, the trio set sail for Sicily, the fugitives passing as the children of Calasiris.
The voyage is at first prosperous; but the ship happening to touch at Zacynthus, the beauty
of Chariclea attracts the eye of a noted pirate named Trachinus, who, when the vessel resumes
her course, pursues and captures her after a long chase, and turning the crew adrift in the
boat,[60] and carries his prize, with his three captives, to the coast of Egypt, where he prepares
a feast on the beach, from the materials furnished by the rich cargo of the Phoenician ship,
in honour of his intended nuptials. Calasiris, however, whose genius seems ever fertile in
expedients, has contrived to possess the mind of Pelorus, the pirate lieutenant, with the belief
that he is the object of the fair captive's preference; and his assertion at the banquet of
his claims gives rise to a furious conflict among the intoxicated pirates, ending in the slaughter
of the whole party except Pelorus himself, who in turn falls by the sword of Theagenes. Calasiris,
who had prudently retired to a safe distance till the fighting was over, is now on the point
of coming forward to aid Chariclea in the care of her wounded lover, when he is anticipated
by the arrival of the robbers, by whom, as related at the commencement of the story, he sees
his protegés carried off.

[Footnote 60: The capture of the vessel has furnished the subject of a painting by Raffaelle
and Giulio Romano.]

Before this recital, however, had been brought to a close, Nausicles,[61] the master of the
house, returns, and the cause of his absence is explained. An Athenian mistress whom he had
brought from Greece had fallen into the hands of the freebooters; and Nausicles, having procured
the aid of a body of Persian troops from the governor of the district, had proceeded against
the buccanier settlement in order to recover her. On reaching the island, however, they find
only Theagenes and Chariclea, Cnemon and Thermuthis having just started on their voyage of
discovery; and Nausicles, disappointed of finding her whom he sought, (and who was no other
than the faithless Thisbe, slain, as above related, in the battle,) conceived the idea of claiming
Chariclea in her place by way of indemnity; while Theagenes was sent off to Memphis by the
Persian officer, who deemed that his beauty and noble bearing would make him an acceptable
addition to the household[62] of the Satrap Oroondates. The lovers are thus again separated,
and Chariclea is in despair; but, on arriving at the house of Nausicles, she is of course immediately
recognised and reclaimed by Calasiris. Cnemon, who seems to have as extraordinary a genius
for sudden friendships as the two heroines in the "Rovers," marries the fair daughter of Nausicles
after a few hours' courtship, and at once sets sail with his father-in-law for Greece, having
ascertained from him that the detection of his enemies had now made his return safe:--And Calasiris
and Chariclea, disguised as beggars, set out in search of the lost Theagenes. That luckless
hero had, meanwhile, been re-captured on his road to Memphis, by his, old friend Thyamis, who,
having escaped (it does not exactly appear how) from the emissaries of his treacherous brother,
with whom the attack on the island proves to have originated, is now at the head of another
and more powerful body of the buccanier fraternity, in the district of Bessa. He receives Theagenes
with great cordiality, and, having beaten off an attack from the Persian troops, takes the
bold resolution of leading his lawless followers against Memphis itself, in order to reclaim
his right to the priesthood, while Oroondates is engaged on the southern frontier in withstanding
an invasion of the Ethiopians. Arsace, the wife of the satrap, who is acting as vice-regent
for her husband, unprovided with troops to repel this sudden incursion, proposes that the two
brothers shall settle the ecclesiastical succession by single combat; and a duel accordingly
takes place under the walls of Memphis, in which Petosiris is getting considerably the worst
of it, when the combat is interrupted by the arrival of Chariclea and Calasiris, who thus witnesses
the spectacle foretold by the oracle--(the dread of seeing which had driven him into voluntary
exile)--his two sons aiming at each other's life. The situation is a well-conceived one, and
described with spirit. Calasiris is recognised by his penitent sons, and himself resumes the
priesthood, the contested vacancy in which had been occasioned only by his absence and supposed
death. The lovers are received as his guests in the temple of Isis, and all seems on the point
of ending happily, when Calasiris, as if the object of his existence had been accomplished
in the fulfilment of the oracle, is found the same night dead in his bed.

[Footnote 61: He is called "A merchant of Naucratis," though resident in Chemmis. But Naucratis,
as we find from Herodotus, (ii. 179,) "was of old the only free port of Egypt; and, if any
trader came to one of the other mouths of the Nile, he was put upon oath that his coming was
involuntary, and was then made to sail to the Canopic mouth. But, if contrary winds prevented
him from doing this, he was obliged to send his cargo in barges round the Delta to Naucratis,
so strict was the regulation." Amasis was the first king who had permitted the trade of the
Greeks at this port, [ib. 178,] and the restriction appears to have been continued under the
Persian rule.]

[Footnote 62: The establishment of household slaves or Mamlukes seems to have been nearly on
the same footing with the ancient as with the modern Persians.]

The loss of their old protector soon involves them in a fresh maze of troubles. Thyamis, indeed,
whose elevation to the high priesthood seems to have driven his former love for Chariclea out
of his head, still continues their friend; but Arsace, the haughty consort of the satrap, who
is represented as a princess of the royal blood of Persia, and a prototype of Catharine of
Russia in her amours, has already cast her eyes on Theagenes, whose personal attractions seem
on all occasions to have been as irresistible by the ladies as those of the fair partner of
his wanderings by the other sex.[63] Under pretence of removing them from the temple during
the period of mourning for Calasiris, they are lodged in the palace of the satrapess, where
the constancy of the hero is exposed to a variety of perilous temptations, but comes forth,
of course, unscathed from the ordeal. The love of ladies thus rejected has been prone, in all
ages and countries, particularly in Egypt since the days of Yusuf and Zuleikha,[64] to turn
into hatred; and Arsace is no exception to this long-established usage. Theagenes is accordingly
thrown into a dungeon, and regularly bastinadoed under the superintendence of a eunuch, in
order to instill into him proper notions of gallantry; while an attempt on the life of Chariclea,
whom Arsace has discovered not to be his sister, fails through the mistake of an attendant,
who delivers the poisoned goblet intended for her to Cybele, the princess's nurse and confidante,
and the contriver of the plot. Chariclea, however, is condemned on this pretext to be burned
alive as a poisoner; but the flames recoil before the magical influence of the gem Pantarbé,
which she wears in her mother's ring; and before Arsace has time to devise any fresh scheme
for her destruction, the confidential eunuch of Oroondates, to whom the misdeeds of his spouse
had become known, arrives from the camp of Syene with orders to bring the two captives to the
presence of the satrap. Arsace commits suicide in despair; but the escort of the lovers, while
travelling along the banks of the Nile, is surprised by a roving party of Ethiopians; and they
are carried to the camp of Hydaspes, by whom they are destined, according to Ethiopian usage,
to be hereafter sacrificed to the sun and moon--the national deities of the country, as first-fruits
of the war. A long account is now introduced of the siege and capture of Syene by the Ethiopians,
and the victory of Hydaspes over Oroondates, which occupies the whole of the ninth book; and
though in itself not ill told, is misplaced, as interrupting the narrative at the most critical
point of the story. Peace is at last concluded between the belligerents; and Hydaspes, returning
in triumph to his capital of Meroë, holds a grand national festival of thanksgiving, at which
the victims are to be sacrificed. The secret of her birth had, however, been revealed to Chariclea
by Calasiris before the elopement from Delphi, and when on the point of being led to the altar,
she suddenly throws herself at the feet of the Queen Persina, and, producing the well-remembered
token of the fillet and the ring, claims the protection of her parents. The recognition of
the mother is instantaneous, but Hydaspes, who had always believed that the child to which
his queen gave birth had died in early infancy, remains incredulous, till his doubts are removed
by the evidence of Sisimithres, who identifies Chariclea as the child which he had confided,
ten years before, to the care of Charicles. At this juncture Charicles himself appears, having
come to Egypt to reclaim his lost child from Calasiris, and thence having been sent on by Oroondates
to the court of Ethiopia:--and the denouement, as far as the heroine is concerned, is now complete.
Theagenes, however, still remains doomed, and Hydaspes seems unwilling to relinquish his victim;
but, after an interval of suspense, during which he incidentally performs various exploits
rather unusual in a man in momentary expectation of death,[65] he is spared, at the vehement
intercession of Persina, to whom Chariclea has revealed her love for the young Thessalian.
The voice of the people, raised in acclamation at this deed of clemency, is ratified by the
approbation of Sisimithres and the Gymnosophists, and all difficulties are now at an end. The
betrothal of Theagenes and Chariclea is publicly announced; and, at the termination of the
festival, they return in state into the city, with Hydaspes and Persina, as the acknowledged
heirs of the kingdom.

[Footnote 63: In all the Greek romances, it seems almost inevitable that all the male characters
should fall in love with the heroine, and all the females with the hero; and, this is, in some
of them, carried to a ludicrous degree of absurdity.]

[Footnote 64: The name of Potiphar's wife, according to the 12th chapter of the Koran. The
story of Yusuf and Zuleikha forms the subject of one of the most beautiful poems in the Persian
language, by Jami.]

[Footnote 65: One of these consists in pursuing a wild bull on horseback, and throwing himself
from the horse on the neck of the bull, which he seizes by the horns, and then, by main force
wrenching his neck round, hurls him powerless to the ground on his back! Such an achievement
appears almost incredible; but it is represented, in all its particulars, in one of the Arundel
marbles, (Marmor. Oxon. Selden, xxxviii,) under the name of [Greek: Tayrokathapsia], and is
mentioned as a national sport of Thessaly, the native country of Theagenes, both by Pliny (Hist.
Nat. viii. 45), and by Suetonius (Claud. cap. 21)--"He exhibited," (says the latter writer,)
"Thessalian horsemen who drive wild bulls round and round the circus, and leaping on them when
they are weary, bring them to the ground by the horns."]

Such is the general outline of the story, which, as will have been perceived, is far from deficient
either in incident or in strikingly imagined situations; but the merit of the conceptions is
too often marred by the mismanagement of the details, and the unskilful arrangement of the
different parts of the narrative. Thus all the circumstances of the early history of Chariclea,
and the rise of the mutual affection between her and Theagenes, and of their adventurous flight,
are made known through a long episode awkwardly put into the mouth of a third person, who himself
knows great part of them only at second-hand, and voluntarily related by him to one with whom
his acquaintance is scarcely of an hour's standing. This mode of narration, in which one of
the characters is introduced (like the prologue in an old play) to recount the previous adventures
of the others, is in itself at all times defective; since it injures the effect of the relation
by depriving it of those accessory touches which the author, from his conventionally admitted
insight into the feelings and motives of his characters, is privileged to supply: whereas a
speaker in the first person must necessarily confine himself, unless when narrating his own
adventures, to the points which have fallen under his personal observation. In the present
instance it is, moreover, needless, as the whole episode might as well have been told in the
ordinary manner. The endless captures and recaptures of the lovers, who are continually bandied
about from one set of pirates, robbers, or plundering soldiers to another, become, at length,
wearisome from repetition; and the dramatic force of the conclusion, which would otherwise
be highly effective, is weakened by the knowledge which the reader possesses, that Chariclea
is all along aware of the secret of her own parentage, and that she has only to produce the
fillet and ring in order to ensure her deliverance from the dreadful doom which appears to
threaten her. The improbability of some of the incidents, and the awkward manner in which others
are brought about, have been much objected to by modern critics, and it must be admitted that
some better way might be found to dispose of personages whose agency was no longer needed,
than to cut them off by sudden death, like Calasiris, or by the bite of a venemous serpent,
like Thermuthis. But the mechanical art (as it may almost be called) of constructing a story
was then in its infancy; and the violations of probability which have been laid to the charge
of Heliodorus, are, after all, much less flagrant than those of Achilles Tatius, and infinitely
less so than those of any of the other Greek writers of romance; nor would many of our modern
novelists, perhaps, gain much by the comparison.

The characters are of very different degrees of merit. Theagenes is as insipid and uninteresting
as one of Walter Scott's well-behaved heroes; and his entreaties to Chariclea, in the final
scene, no longer to delay making herself known to her parents, betray a most laudable instinct
of self-preservation. The deeds of strength and valour which he is occasionally made to perform,
seem rather to arise from the author's remembering that his hero must do something to support
the character, than to result naturally from the situations in which he is placed, and his
love of decorum is carried, on all occasions, to an absurd extent of prudery. "Le heros de
la pièce est d'une sagesse qui a donné lieu à des railleries assez plaisantes," says Bayle;
though the instance usually cited--a box on the ear, which he gives Chariclea, when she approaches
him in her beggar's dress, under the walls of Memphis, and attempts to throw herself into his
arms, is scarcely a fair one, as he does not at the time recognize his beloved under her unbecoming
disguise. The character of Chariclea herself, however, makes ample amends for the defects of
that of her lover; and this superiority of the heroine, it may be observed, is almost invariable
in the early Greek romances. The masculine firmness and presence of mind which she evinces
in situations of peril and difficulty, combined at all times with feminine delicacy, and the
warmth and confiding simplicity of her love for Theagenes, attach to her a degree of interest
which belongs to none of the other personages; and her spontaneous burst of grateful affection,
on recognizing, at Meroë, the voice of her foster-father, Charicles, is expressed with exquisite
tenderness. Of the subordinate characters little need be said. Charicles is a mere impersonation
of benevolence and parental love; and Cnemon seems to have been introduced for little else
than to tell his own long story, and listen to that of Calasiris in return. The old Egyptian
priest, however, is a sketch of considerable merit. Like Scott's Peregrine Touchwood, though
abundantly zealous at all times to serve his friends, he cannot find it in his heart to take
any but the most round-about way of doing so; but he is never disconcerted by any of the untoward
results of his schemes, and relates to Cnemon, with the most perfect self-complacency, the
deceit which he had practiced on his confiding host, Charicles, in helping Theagenes to steal
away his adopted daughter, and the various scrapes into which his protegés had fallen under
his guidance. He has, moreover, pet theories of his own on the phenomena of the Nile, the cause
of the roughness of the Ionian Sea, and various other matters, in which he indoctrinates Cnemon
par parenthèse: he is an enthusiastic admirer and constant quoter of Homer, whose Egyptian
birth (at Thebes the hundred-gated) he maintains with all the zeal of a Highlander defending
the authenticity of Ossian; and, on the whole, we cannot but think the author has scarcely
used him well, in not allowing him to live to see his efforts crowned with success, and to
enjoy the honours which would doubtless have been heaped upon him at the court of Ethiopia.

The author appears to take especial delight in accounts of costumes, processions, sacrifices,
&c.; the details given of which are often valuable in an antiquarian point of view; and his
information upon these subjects, as well as of the manners of the country in which the scene
is laid, as far as our knowledge of the present day will enable us to decide, is extremely
correct. One of the most curious morceaux of this sort, is a minute description of the complete
armour for horse and man, worn by the élite of the cavalry in the army of Oroondates; and which,
though probably taken from that used by the troops of the Sassanian monarchs cotemporary with
Heliodorus, is equally applicable to the period at which the scene is laid; since numerous
passages in ancient authors show, that from the earliest time up to the Mohammedan conquest,
the Persian nobles and heavy cavalry used panoply as impenetrable as the European chivalry
of the middle ages. Among the other scattered traits of manners, it will be remarked as singular,
according to the ideas of the present day, that open piracy and robbery are neither spoken
of as disreputable, nor as attaching any slur to those who exercised them; insomuch, that the
notoriety of Thyamis, having been a chief of freebooters, is not regarded as any obstacle to
his assumption of the high-priesthood. But this, it will be found, was strictly in accordance
with the manners of the ancient Greeks, among whom piracy was so far from being looked upon
in any other light than that of an honourable profession, that Nestor himself, in the third
book of the Odyssey, asks his guests, Telemachus and Mentor, as an ordinary question, whether
business or piracy was the object of their voyage. But the Bucoli (herdsmen or buccaniers,)
over whom Thyamis held command, should probably, notwithstanding their practice of rapine,
be regarded not so much as robbers as in the light of outlaws, who had taken refuge in these
impenetrable marshes from the yoke of the Persians; and their constant conflicts with the Persian
troops, as well as the march of Thyamis upon Memphis, confirm the opinion that this was the
intention of the author. That these vast marshes of the Delta were in fact, throughout the
period of Persian rule in Egypt, the strongholds of Egyptian independence, admits of abundant
demonstration from the Greek historians:--it was here, in the mysterious island of Elbo, that
Amyrtæus, (called by Thucydides "the king of the marshes,") held out after the reconquest of
Egypt by Megabysus, B.C. 454, "for they could not take him on account of the great extent of
the marsh; besides which, the marshmen are the most warlike of all the Egyptians."[66] This
view of the subject has, at least, the advantage of placing Thyamis in a more respectable light
than that of a mere marauder; though his mode of life under either supposition, would be considered,
according to modern notions, as a strange training for the sacerdotal office.

[Footnote 66: Thuc. i. cap. 110. The island of Elbo, according to Herodotus, who gives a curious
account of the Egyptian marshes and their inhabitants, had been constructed of cinders, in
long past times, by a king who lay concealed for fifty years from the Ethiopians; but no man
knew its situation, till it was again brought to light, after having been lost for five hundred
years, by Amyrtæus.]

Few if any works of fiction have enjoyed so long and widely diffused a celebrity, as the Ethiopics.
Whatever credit may be attached to the story preserved by Nicephorus, of the deposition of
Heliodorus from his see, it at least affords evidence of the high popularity of the work, even
during the lifetime of the author; and we have the personal testimony of Nicephorus himself,
that in his own time, five centuries later, it was still regarded with undiminished favour.
Down to the fall of the Greek empire, its style and incidents continued to furnish a model
to all the wretched scribblers who attempted the composition of romances--nor was its fame
confined within the limits of the language in which it was written. It found a place in the
famous library of Matthias Corvinus at Buda; and the dispersion of that celebrated collection
on the capture of the city by the Ottomans after the battle of Mohácz, in 1526, first made
it known to western Europe: the first edition by Obsopoeus,[67] (printed at Basle in 1534,)
having been taken in MS. which fell into the possession of a soldier on this occasion. Among
the literati of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, its popularity seems almost to have
equalled that which it had enjoyed in its native country. Tasso, as has already been noticed,
borrowed from it the episode of Clorinda--and Racine (one of whose early productions was also
founded upon it) was, in his younger days, so enthusiastic an admirer of it, that when the
volume was taken from him by his tutor at Port-Royal, he replied that it mattered little, as
he knew the whole by heart! The numerous translations, however, which have appeared in various
languages, particularly in French and English, are little calculated to add, by the merits
of their execution, to the favour of the work; one English poetical version in particular,
by Lisle, published in 1527, is one of the most precious specimens of balderdash in existence--a
perfect literary curiosity in its way! Of the others, we need mention only the French one of
Amyot, (1558,) not for its merits, but from the author's having been rewarded by Henry II.
of France with the nomination to an abbey--as if in tardy compensation to Heliodorus, in the
person of his literary representative, for the see from which the authorship is said to have
caused his expulsion.

[Footnote 67: Of the later editions of the Greek text, the best are those of Coray, Paris,
1804; and Mitscherlisch, Strasburg, 1797.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PAST AND PRESENT, BY CARLYLE.

Mr Carlyle--an astute and trenchant critic might, with show of justice, remark--assumes to
be the reformer and castigator of his age--a reformer in philosophy, in politics, in religion--denouncing
its mechanical method of thinking, deploring its utter want of faith, and threatening political
society, obstinately deaf to the voice of wisdom, with the retributive horrors of repeated
revolutions; and yet neither in philosophy, in religion, nor in politics, has Mr Carlyle any
distinct dogma, creed, or constitution to promulgate. The age is irreligious, he exclaims,
and the vague feeling of the impenetrable mystery which encompasses us, is all the theology
we can gather from him; civil society, with its laws and government, is in a false and perilous
position, and for all relief and reformation, he launches forth an indisputable morality--precepts
of charity, and self-denial, and strenuous effort--precepts most excellent, and only too applicable;
applicable, unfortunately, after an à priori fashion--for if men would but obey them, there
had been need of few laws, and of no remedial measures.

This man of faith--our critic might continue--has but one everlasting note; and it is really
the most sceptical and melancholy that has ever been heard, or heard with toleration, in our
literature. He repeats it from his favourite apostle Goethe; "all doubt is to be cured only--by
action." Certainly, if forgetting the doubt, and the subject of doubt, be the sole cure for
it. But that other advice which Mr Carlyle tells us was given, and in vain, to George Fox,
the Quaker, at a time when he was agitated by doubts and perplexities, namely, "to drink beer
and dance with the girls," was of the very same stamp, and would have operated in the very
same manner, to the removing of the pious Quaker's doubts. Faith! ye lack faith! cries this
prophet in our streets; and when reproved and distressed scepticism enquires where truth is
to be found, he bids it back to the loom or the forge, to its tools and its workshop, of whatever
kind these may be--there to forget the enquiry.

The religion, or, if he pleases, the formula of religion, which helps to keep men sober and
orderly, Mr Carlyle despises, ridicules; "old clothes!" he cries, empty and ragged. It is not
till a man has risen into frenzy, or some hot fanaticism, that he deserves his respect. An
Irving, when his noble spirit, kindled to fever heat, is seized with delirium, becomes worthy
of some admiration. A Cromwell is pronounced emphatically to have believed in a God, and therefore
to have been "by far the remarkablest governor we have had here for the last five centuries
or so." Meanwhile, is it the faith of an Irving, or the God of a Cromwell, that our subtle-minded
author would have us adopt, or would adopt himself? If he scorn the easy, methodical citizen,
who plods along the beaten tracks of life, looking occasionally, in his demure, self-satisfied
manner, upwards to the heavens, but with no other result than to plod more perseveringly along
his very earthy track, it follows not that there is any one order of fanatic spirits with whom
he would associate, to whose theology he would yield assent. Verily, no. He demands faith--he
gives no creed. What is it you teach? a plain-speaking man would exclaim; where is your church?
have you also your thirty-nine articles? have you nine? have you one stout article of creed
that will bear the rubs of fortune--bear the temptations of prosperity or a dietary system--stand
both sunshine and the wind--which will keep virtue steady when disposed to reel, and drive
back crime to her penal caverns of remorse? What would you answer, O philosopher! if a simple
body should ask you, quite in confidence, where wicked people go to?

Were it not better for those to whom philosophy has brought the sad necessity of doubt, to
endure this also patiently and silently, as one of the inevitable conditions of human existence?
Were not this better than to rail incessantly against the world, for a want of that sentiment
which they have no means to excite or to authorize?

The same inconsequence in politics. We have Chartism preached by one not a Chartist--by one
who has no more his five points of Radicalism than his five points of Calvinistic divinity--who
has no trust in democracy, who swears by no theory of representative government--who will never
believe that a multitude of men, foolish and selfish, will elect the disinterested and the
wise. Your constitution, your laws, your "horse-haired justice" that sits in Westminster Hall,
he likes them not; but he propounds himself no scheme of polity. Reform yourselves, one and
all, ye individual men! and the nation will be reformed; practise justice, charity, self-denial,
and then all mortals may work and eat. This is the most distinct advice he bestows. Alas! it
is advice such as this that the Christian preacher, century after century, utters from his
pulpit, which he makes the staple of his eloquence, and which he and his listeners are contented
to applaud; and the more contented probably to applaud, as, on all hands, it is tacitly understood
to be far too good to be practised.

In fine, turn which way you will, to philosophy, to politics, to religion, you find Mr Carlyle
objecting, denouncing, scoffing, rending all to pieces in his bold, reckless, ironical, manner--but
teaching nothing. The most docile pupil, when he opens his tablets to put down the precious
sum of wisdom he has learned, pauses--finds his pencil motionless, and leaves his tablet still
a blank.

Now all this, and more of the same kind, which our astute and trenchant critic might urge,
may be true, or very like the truth, but it is not the whole truth.

"To speak a little pedantically," says our author himself, in a paper called Signs of the Times,
"there is a science of Dynamics in man's fortune and nature, as well as of Mechanics. There
is a science which treats of, and practically addresses, the primary, unmodified, forces and
energies of man, the mysterious springs of love, and fear, and wonder, of enthusiasm, poetry--religion,
all which have a truly vital and infinite character; as well as a science which practically
addresses the finite, modified developments of these, when they take the shape of immediate
'motives,' as hope of reward, or as fear of punishment. Now it is certain, that in former times
the wise men, the enlightened lovers of their kind, who appeared generally as moralists, poets,
or priests, did, without neglecting the mechanical province, deal chiefly with the dynamical;
applying, themselves chiefly to regulate, increase, and purify, the inward primary powers of
man; and fancying that herein lay the main difficulty, and the best service they could undertake."--Misc.
vol. ii. p. 277.

In such Dynamics it is that Mr Carlyle deals. To speak in our own plain common-place diction,
it is to the elements of all religious feeling, to the broad unalterable principles of morality,
that he addresses himself; stirring up in the minds of his readers those sentiments of reverence
to the Highest, and of justice to all, even to the lowest, which can never utterly die out
in any man, but which slumber in the greater number of us. It is by no means necessary to teach
any peculiar or positive doctrine in order to exert an influence on society. After all, there
is a moral heart beating at the very centre of this world. Touch it, and there is a responsive
movement through the whole system of the world. Undoubtedly external circumstances rule in
their turn over this same central pulsation: alter, arrange, and modify, these external circumstances
as best you can, but he who, by the word he speaks or writes, can reach this central pulse
immediately--is he idle, is he profitless?

Or put it thus: there is a justice between man and man--older, and more stable, and more lofty
in its requisitions, than that which sits in ermine, or, if our author pleases, in "horse-hair,"
at Westminster Hall; there is a morality recognized by the intellect and the heart of all reflective
men, higher and purer than what the present forms of society exact or render feasible--or rather
say, a morality of more exalted character than that which has hitherto determined those forms
of society. No man who believes that the teaching of Christ was authorized of heaven--no man
who believes this only, that his doctrine has obtained and preserved its heavenly character
from the successful, unanswerable, appeal which it makes to the human heart--can dispute this
fact. Is he an idler, then, or a dreamer in the land, who comes forth, and on the high-road
of our popular literature, insists on it that men should assume their full moral strength,
and declares that herein lies the salvation of the world? But what can he do if the external
circumstances of life are against him?--if they crush this moral energy?--if they discountenance
this elevation of character? Alone--perhaps nothing. He with both hands is raising one end
of the beam; go you with your tackle, with rope and pulley, and all mechanical appliances,
to the other end, and who knows but something may be effected?

It is not by teaching this or that dogma, political, philosophical, or religious, that Mr Carlyle
is doing his work, and exerting an influence, by no means despicable, on his generation. It
is by producing a certain moral tone of thought, of a stern, manly, energetic, self-denying
character, that his best influence consists. Accordingly we are accustomed to view his works,
even when they especially regard communities of men, and take the name of histories, as, in
effect, appeals to the individual heart, and to the moral will of the reader. His mind is not
legislative; his mode of thinking is not systematic; a state economy he has not the skill,
perhaps not the pretension, to devise. When he treats of nations, and governments, and revolutions
of states, he views them all as a wondrous picture, which he, the observer, standing apart,
watches and apostrophizes, still revealing himself in his reflections upon them. The picture
to the eye, he gives with marvellous vividness; and he puts forth, with equal power, that sort
of world-wide reflection which a thinking being might be supposed to make on his first visit
to our planet; but the space between--those intermediate generalizations which make the pride
of the philosophical historian--he neglects, has no taste for. Such a writer as Montesquieu
he holds in manifest antipathy. His History of the French Revolution, like his Chartism, like
the work now before us, his Past and Present, is still an appeal to the consciousness of each
man, and to the high and eternal laws of justice and of charity--lo, ye are brethren!

And although it be true, as our critic has suggested, that to enlarge upon the misery which
lies low and wide over the whole ground-plot of civilized society, without at the same time
devising an effectual remedy, is a most unsatisfactory business; nevertheless, this also must
be added, that to forget the existence of this misery would not be to cure it--would, on the
contrary, be a certain method of perpetuating and aggravating it; that to try to forget it,
is as little wise as it is humane, and that indeed such act of oblivion is altogether impossible.
If crowds of artizans, coming forth from homes where there is neither food nor work, shall
say, in the words that our author puts into their mouths, "Behold us here--we ask if you mean
to lead us towards work; to try to lead us? Surely it is well that every class in the community
should know how indissolubly its interest is connected with the well-being of other classes.
However remote the man of wealth may sit from scenes like this--however reluctant he may be
to hear of them--nothing can be more true than that this distress is his calamity, and that
on him also lies the inevitable alternative to remedy or to suffer.

It accords with the view we have here taken of the writings of Mr Carlyle, that of all his
works that which pleased us most was the one most completely personal in its character, which
most constantly kept the reader in a state of self-reflection. In spite of all its oddities
and vagaries, and the chaotic shape into which its materials have been thrown, the Sartor Resartus
is a prime favourite of ours--a sort of volcanic work; and the reader stands by, with folded
arms, resolved at all events to secure peace within his own bosom. But no sluggard's peace;
his arms are folded, not for idleness, only to repress certain vain tremors and vainer sighs.
He feels the calm of self-renunciation, but united with no monkish indolence. Here is a fragment
of it. How it rebukes the spirit of strife and contention!

Truisms! Preachments repeated from Solomon downwards! some quick, impatient reader, all animal
irritability, will exclaim--Good, but it is the very prerogative of genius, in every age, to
revive truisms such as these, and make them burn in our hearts. Many a man in his hour of depression,
when resolution is sicklied over by the pale cast of thought, will find, in the writings of
Carlyle, a freshening stimulant, better than the wine-cup, or even the laughter of a friend,
can give. In some of his biographical sketches, with what force has he brought out the moral
resolution which animated, or ought to have animated, the man of whom he is writing! We shall
have occasion, by and by, to notice what, to our mind, appears a mere perversion of thought,
and a mischievous exaggeration in our author, who, in his love of a certain energy of character,
has often made this energy (apart from a moral purpose) the test and rule of his admiration.
But at present turn to his admirable estimation of Dr Samuel Johnson, and the noble regret
which he throws over the memory of Burns. A portion of the first we cannot resist extracting.
What a keen mountain air, bracing to the nerves, mortal to languor and complaint, blows over
us from passages such as these:--

     "The courage we desire and prize is not the courage to die
     decently, but to live manfully. Johnson, in the eighteenth
     century, all as a man of letters, was, in good truth, 'the
     bravest of the brave.' What mortal could have more to war with?
     Yet, as we saw, he yielded not, faltered not; he fought, and
     even, such was his blessedness, prevailed. Whoso will
     understand what it is to have a man's heart, may find that,
     since the time of John Milton, no braver heart had beat in any
     English bosom than Samuel Johnson now bore. Observe, too, that
     he never called himself brave, never felt himself to be so; the
     more completely was he so. No Giant Despair, no Golgotha
     Death-Dance, or Sorcerer's Sabbath of 'Literary Life in
     London,' appals this pilgrim; he works resolutely for
     deliverance; in still defiance steps stoutly along. The thing
     that is given him to do he can make himself do; what is to be
     endured he can endure in silence.

     "How the great soul of old Samuel, consuming daily his own
     bitter, unalleviable allotment of misery and toil, shows beside
     the poor, flimsy, little soul of young Boswell; one day
     flaunting in the ring of vanity, tarrying by the wine-cup, and
     crying, Aha, the wine is red; the next day deploring his
     down-pressed, night-shaded, quite poor estate; and thinking it
     unkind that the whole movement of the universe should go on,
     while his digestive apparatus had stopped! We reckon
     Johnson's 'talent of silence' to be among his great and rare
     gifts. Where there is nothing further to be done, there shall
     nothing further be said; like his own poor, blind Welshwoman,
     he accomplished somewhat, and also 'endured fifty years of
     wretchedness with unshaken fortitude.' How grim was life to
     him; a sick prison-house and doubting-castle! 'His great
     business,' he would profess, 'was to escape from himself.' Yet
     towards all this he has taken his position and resolution; can
     dismiss it all 'with frigid indifference, having little to hope
     or to fear.' Friends are stupid, and pusillanimous, and
     parsimonious; 'wearied of his stay, yet offended at his
     departure;' it is the manner of the world. 'By popular
     delusion,' remarks he, with a gigantic calmness, 'illiterate
     writers will rise into renown:' it is a portion of the history
     of English literature; a perennial thing, this same popular
     delusion; and will--alter the character of the language....

     "The life of this man has been, as it were, turned inside out,
     and examined with microscopes by friend and foe; yet was there
     no lie found in him. His doings and writings are not shows,
     but performances: you may weigh them in the balance, and they
     will stand weight. Not a line, not a sentence is dishonestly
     done, is other than it pretends to be. Alas! and he wrote not
     out of inward inspiration, but to earn his wages; and with that
     grand perennial tide flowing by, in whose waters he
     nevertheless refused to fish, to whose rich oyster-beds the
     dive was too muddy for him. Observe, again, with what innate
     hatred of cant he takes to himself, and offers to others, the
     lowest possible view of his business, which he followed with
     such nobleness. Motive for writing he had none, as he often
     said, but money; and yet he wrote so. Into the region of
     poetic art he indeed never rose; there was no ideal without
     him, avowing itself in his work; the nobler was that unavowed
     ideal which lay within him, and commanded, saying, Work out
     thy artisanship in the spirit of an artist! They who talk
     loudest about the dignity of art, and fancy that they too are
     artistic guild-brethren, and of the celestials, let them
     consider well what manner of man this was, who felt himself to
     be only a hired day-labourer."--Misc. vol. iv. p. 19.

The History of the French Revolution deserves, no doubt, notwithstanding the sort of partiality
we have intimated for its wild predecessor, to be considered as the greatest work of Mr Carlyle;
but it is the work of which criticism, if she ventures to speak at all, must speak with the
loudest and most frequent protests. There are certain grave objections which cannot be got
over. As to the style, indeed, Mr Carlyle is, on this head, (except, occasionally, when writing
for some Review in which a very violent departure from the English language would not be advisable,)
far above all criticism. The attempt to censure the oddities with which it abounds--the frequent
repetition--the metaphor and allusion used again and again till the page is covered with a
sort of slang--would only subject the critic himself to the same kind of ridicule that would
fall upon the hapless wight who should bethink him of taking some Shandean work gravely to
task for its scandalous irregularities, and utter want of methodical arrangement. Such is Carlylism;
and this is all that can be said upon the matter. But the style which seemed not altogether
unnatural, and far from intolerable, in Herr Teufelsdrockh, becomes a strangely inconvenient
medium of communication where a whole history is to be told in it. The mischief is, that it
admits of no safe middle path: it must arrest attention for its novelty, its graphic power,
its bold originality; or it must offend by its newfangled phrase, its jerking movement, and
its metaphor and allusion reduced into a slang. Meanwhile, there is so much in a history which
needs only to be told--so much, which even this author, skip how he may, must relate, for the
sake merely of preserving a continuous narrative--and where the perfection of style would be,
as all the world knows, that it should draw no attention whatever to itself. A style like this
of our author's, once assumed, cannot be laid down for a moment; and the least important incident
is related with the same curiosity of diction, and the same startling manner, that delighted
us in the Siege of the Bastile. To convey mere information, it seems quite unserviceable. "How
inferior," says our author somewhere himself,--"how inferior for seeing by is the brightest
train of fireworks to the humblest farthing candle!"

The basis of a history is surely, after all, the narrative, and whatever may be the estimate
of others, the historian proceeds on the supposition that the facts he has to relate are, for
their own sake, deserving to be had in remembrance. If not, why is he there recording and verifying
them? But Mr Carlyle proceeds throughout on quite the contrary supposition, that the fact for
itself is worth nothing--that it is valuable only as it presents some peculiar picture to the
imagination, or kindles some noteworthy reflection. He maintains throughout the attitude of
one who stands apart, looking at the history; rarely does he assume the patient office of that
scribe whom we remember to have seen in the frontispiece of our school histories, recording
faithfully what the bald headed Time, sitting between his scythe and his hour-glass, was dictating.

Never, indeed, was history written in so mad a vein--and that not only as regards style, but
the prevailing mood of mind in which the facts and characters are scanned. That mood is for
the most part ironical. There is philanthropy, doubtless, at the bottom of it all; but a mocking
spirit, a profound and pungent irony, are the manifest and prevailing characteristics. It is
a philanthropy which has borrowed the manner of Mephistopheles. It is a modern Diogenes--in
fact it is Diogenes Teufelsdrockh himself, surveying the Revolution from his solitary watch-tower,
where he sits so near the eternal skies, that a whole generation of men, whirling off in wild
Sahara waltz into infinite space, is but a spectacle, and a very brief and confused one. This
lofty irony, pungent as it is, grows wearisome. By throwing a littleness on all things, it
even destroys the very aliment it feeds on; nothing, at last, is worth the mocking. But the
weariness it occasions is not its greatest fault. It leads to a most unjust and capricious
estimate of the characters and actions of men. Capricious it must, of necessity, become. To
be ironical always were insufferable; even for the sake of artistical effect, some personages;
and some events, must be treated with a natural feeling of respect or abhorrence; yet if one
murder is to be recorded with levity, why not another;--if one criminal is to be dismissed
with a jest, levelled perhaps at some personal oddity, why is an earnest indignation to be
bestowed on the next criminal that comes under notice? The distinctions that will be made will
be not fair judgments, but mere favouritism. Situated thus--plain moral distinctions having
been disparaged--Mr Carlyle has given way to his admiration of a certain energy of character,
and makes the possession of this sole excellence the condition of his favour, the title to
his respect, or perhaps, we should say, to an immunity from his contempt. The man who has an
eye--that is, who glares on you like a tiger--he who, in an age of revolution, is most thoroughly
revolutionary, and swallows all formulas--he is made a hero, and honourable mention is decreed
to him; whilst all who acted with an ill-starred moderation, who strove, with ineffectual but
conscientious effort, to stay the wild movement of the revolution, are treated with derision,
are dismissed with contempt, or at best with pity for their weakness.

His first hero is Mirabeau, a man of energy enough doubtless, and who had, in a most remarkable
degree, that force of character which gives not only influence over, but a sort of possession
of, other men's minds, though they may claim far higher intellectual endowments. For this one
quality he is forgiven every thing. The selfish ambition of which he must be more than suspected,
is not glanced at. Even the ridicule due to his inordinate vanity, is spared him. "Yes support
that head," says this dying gladiator to his friend; "would I could bequeath it to thee!" And
our caustic Diogenes withholds the lash. As the history proceeds, Danton is elevated to the
place of hero. He is put in strong contrast with Robespierre. The one is raised into simple
admiration, the other sunk into mere contempt; both are spared the just execration which their
crimes have merited. The one good quality of Danton is, that, like Mirabeau, he had an eye--did
not see through logic spectacles--had swallowed all formulas. So that, when question is made
of certain massacres in which he was implicated, we are calmly told "that some men have tasks
frightfuller than ours." The one great vice of Robespierre is, that he lacked courage; for
the rest, he is "sea-green and incorruptible"--"thin and acrid." His incorruptibility is always
mentioned contemptuously, and generally in connexion with his bilious temperament, as if they
related as cause and effect, or were both alike matters of pathology. Mr Carlyle has a habit
of stringing together certain moral with certain physical peculiarities, till the two present
themselves as of quite equal importance, and things of the same category.

Yet this Robespierre, had our author been in want of another hero, possessed one quality, which,
in his estimate, would have entitled him to occupy the pedestal. He had faith. And this prediction
was uttered by no less a man than Mirabeau. "Men of insight discern that the sea-green may
by chance go far: 'this man,' observes Mirabeau, 'will do somewhat; he believes every word
he says.'" The audacity of Danton the 'sea-green' certainly did not possess, but of that sort
of courage which can use the extremest means for the desired end, he surely had sufficient.
He shrunk from no crime, however exorbitant. His faith carried him through all, and nearer
to the goal than any of his compeers. He walked as firm as others round the crater of this
volcano, and walked there the longest. It is impossible not to feel that here, by the side
of Dauton, a great injustice has been done to the incorruptible and faithful Robespierre.

Well may energy or will stand in the place of goodness with Mr Carlyle, since we find him making
in another place this strange paradoxical statement: "Bad is by its nature negative, and can
do nothing; whatsoever enables us to do any thing is by its very nature good." So that such
a thing as a bad deed cannot exist, and such an expression is without meaning. Accordingly,
not only is energy applauded, but that energy applauded most that does most. Those who exercised
their power, and the utmost resolution of mind, in the attempt to restrain the Revolution,
are not to be put in comparison with those who did something--who carried forward the revolutionary
movement. With what contempt he always mentions Lafayette--a man of limited views, it is true;
and whose views at the time were wide enough? or to whom would the widest views have afforded
a practical guidance?--but a man of honour and of patriotic intentions! And how are the whole
party of the Gironde treated with slight and derision, because, at a period of what proved
to be irremediable confusion--when nothing but the whirlwind was to be reaped--they were incessantly
striving to realize for their country some definite and permanent institutions! But though
their attempt we see was futile, could they do other than make the attempt?

But, true as all this may be, Mr Carlyle would be the last man to commend the Girondists had
they allowed themselves to be borne along passively by this violent movement: is it fair dealing,
then, that their efforts--the only efforts they could make--efforts which cost them life, should
be treated as little better than idle pedantries?

But what criticism has to say in praise of this extraordinary work, let it not be said with
stint or timidity. The bold glance at the Revolution, taken from his Diogenes' station, and
the vivid descriptions of its chief scenes, are unrivalled.

That many a page sorely tries the reader's patience is acknowledged, and we might easily fill
column after column with extracts, to show that the style of Mr Carlyle, especially when it
is necessary for him to descend to the common track of history, can degenerate into a mannerism
scarce tolerable, for which no term of literary censure, would be too severe. We have, however,
no disposition to make any such extracts; and our readers, we are sure, would have little delight
in perusing them. On the other hand, when he does succeed, great is the glory thereof; and
we cannot forego the pleasure of making one quotation, however well known the remarkable passages
of this work may be, to illustrate the triumphant power which he not unfrequently displays.
Here is a portion of his account of the Taking of the Bastile. It will be borne in mind, that
there is throughout a mixture of the ironical and mock-heroic:

     "All morning since nine there has been a cry every where: To
     the Bastile!

     "To describe this siege of the Bastile (thought to be one of
     the most important in history) perhaps transcends the talent of
     mortals. Gardes Françaises have come; real
     cannon, real cannoniers. 'Victoire! La Bastile est prise!'"--Vol.
     i. p. 233.

Such descriptions, we need hardly say, are not the sport of fancy, nor constructed by the agglomeration
of eloquent phrases; they are formed by collecting together (and this constitutes their value)
facts and intimations scattered through a number of authorities. It would be a great mistake,
however, to suppose that there is no imagination, or little artistic talent, displayed in collecting
the materials for such a description. There may be genius in reading well quite as certainly
as in writing well; nor is it any common or inferior ability that detects at a glance, amongst
a multitude of facts, the one which has real significance, and which gives its character to
the scene to be reviewed. If any one wishes to convince himself how much a man of genius may
see in the page which can hardly obtain the attention of an ordinary reader, the last work
of Mr Carlyle, Past and Present, will afford him an opportunity of making the experiment. He
has but to turn, after reading in that work the account of Abbot Samson, to the Chronicle of
Jocelin, from which it has been all faithfully extracted, and he will be surprised that our
author could find so much life and truth in the antiquarian record. Or the experiment would
be still more perfect if he should read the chronicle first, and then turn to the extracted
account in Past and Present.

It is time, indeed, that we ourselves turned to this work, the perusal of which has led us
to these remarks upon Mr Carlyle. We were desirous, however, of forming something like a general
estimate of his merits and demerits before we entered upon any account of his last production.
What space we have remaining shall be devoted to this work.

Past and Present, if it does not enhance, ought not, we think, to diminish from the reputation
of its author; but as a mannerism becomes increasingly disagreeable by repetition, we suspect
that, without having less merit, this work will have less popularity than its predecessors.
The style is the same "motley wear," and has the same jerking movement--seems at times a thing
of shreds and patches hung on wires--and is so full of brief allusions to his own previous
writings, that to a reader unacquainted with these it would be scarce intelligible. With all
this it has the same vigour, and produces the same vivid impression that always attends upon
his writings. Here, as elsewhere, he pursues his author-craft with a right noble and independent
spirit, striking manifestly for truth, and for no other cause; and here also, as elsewhere,
he leaves his side unguarded, open to unavoidable attack, so that the most blundering critic
cannot fail to hit right, and the most friendly cannot spare.

The past is represented by a certain Abbot Samson, and his abbey of St Edmunds, whose life
and conversation are drawn from the chronicle already alluded to, and which has been lately
published by the Camden Society.[68] Our author will look, he tells us, face to face on this
remote period, "in hope of perhaps illustrating our own poor century thereby." Very good. To
get a station in the past, and therefrom view the present, is no ill-devised scheme. But Abbot
Samson and his monks form a very limited, almost a domestic picture, which supplies but few
points of contrast or similitude with our "own poor century," which, at all events, is very
rich in point of view. When, therefore, he proceeds to discuss the world-wide topics of our
own times, we soon lose all memory of the Abbot and his monastery, who seems indeed to have
as little connexion with the difficulties of our position, as the statues of Gog and Magog
in Guildhall with the decision of some election contest which is made to take place in their
venerable presence. On one point only can any palpable contrast be exhibited, namely, between
the religious spirit of his times and our own. (Camden Society, London, 1840.)]

Now, here, as on every topic where a comparison is attempted, what must strike every one is,
the manifest partiality Mr Carlyle shows to the past, and the unfair preference he gives it
over the present. Nothing but respect and indulgence when he revisits the monastery of St Edmunds;
nothing but censure and suspicion when he enters, say, for instance, the precincts of Exeter
Hall. Well do we know, that if Mr Carlyle could meet such a monk alive, as he here treats with
so much deference, encounter him face to face, talk to him, and hear him talk; he and the monk
would be intolerable to each other. Fortunately for him, the monks are dead and buried whom
he lauds so much when contrasted with our modern pietists. Could these tenants of the stately
monastery preach to him about their purgatory and their prayers--lecture him, as assuredly
they would, with that same earnest, uncomfortable, too anxious exhortation, which all saints
must address to sinners--he would close his ears hermetically--he would fly for it--he would
escape with as desperate haste as from the saddest whine that ever issued from some lath-and-plaster
conventicle.

Mr Carlyle censures our poor century for its lack of faith; yet the kind of faith it possesses,
which has grown up in it, which is here at this present, he has no respect for, treats with
no manner of tenderness. What other would he have? He deals out to it no measure of philosophical
justice. He accepts the faith of every age but his own. He will accept, as the best thing possible,
the trustful and hopeful spirit of dark and superstitious periods; but if the more enlightened
piety of his own age be at variance even with the most subtle and difficult tenets of his own
philosophy, he will make no compromise with it, he casts it away for contemptuous infidelity
to trample on as it pleases. When visiting the past, how indulgent, kind, and considerate he
is! When Abbot Samson (as the greatest event of his life) resolves to see and to touch the
remains of St Edmund, and "taking the head between his hands, speaks groaning," and prays to
the "Glorious Martyr that it may not be turned to his perdition that he, miserable and sinful,
has dared to touch his sacred person," and thereupon proceeds to touch the eyes and the nose,
and the breast and the toes, which last he religiously counts; our complacent author sees here,
"a noble awe surrounding the memory of the dead saint, symbol, and promoter of many other right
noble things." And when he has occasion to call to mind the preaching of Peter the Hermit,
who threw the fanaticism of the west on the fanaticism of the east, and in order that there
should be no disparity between them in the sanguinary conflict, assimilated the faith of Christ
to that of Mahommed, and taught that the baptized believer who fell by the Saracen would die
in the arms of angels, and at the very gates of heaven; here, too, he bestows a hearty respect
on the enthusiastic missionary, and all his fellow crusaders: it seems that he also would willingly
have gone with such an army of the faithful. But when he turns from the past to the present,
all this charity and indulgence are at an end. He finds in his own mechanico-philosophical
age a faith in accordance with its prevailing modes of thought--faith lying at the foundation
of whatever else of doctrinal theology it possesses--a faith diffused over all society, and
taught not only in churches and chapels to pious auditories, but in every lecture-room, and
by scientific as well as theological instructors--a faith in God, as creator of the universe,
as the demonstrated author, architect, originator, of this wondrous world; and lo! this same
philosopher who looked with encouraging complacency on Abbot Samson bending in adoration over
the exhumed remains of a fellow mortal, and who listens without a protest to the cries of sanguinary
enthusiasm, rising from a throng of embattled Christians, steps disdainfully aside from this
faith of a peaceful and scientific age; he has some subtle, metaphysical speculations that
will not countenance it; he demands that a faith in God should he put on some other foundation,
which foundation, unhappily, his countrymen, as yet unskilled in transcendental metaphysics;
cannot apprehend; he withdraws his sympathy from the so trite and sober-minded belief of an
industrious, experimental, ratiocinating generation, and cares not if they have a God at all,
if they can only make his existence evident to themselves from some commonplace notion of design
and prearrangement visible in the world. Accordingly, we have passages like the following,
which it is not our fault if the reader finds to be not very intelligible, or written in, what
our author occasionally perpetrates, a sad jargon. By no means. Let him proceed on the "high
à priori road," if he finds it--as not many do--practicable. Let men, at all times, when they
write as philosophers, speak out simply what they hold to be truth. It is his partiality only
that we here take notice of, and the different measure that he deals out to the past and the
present. Out of compliment to a bygone century he can sink philosophy, and common sense too;
when it might be something more than a compliment to the existing age to appear in harmony
with its creed, he will not bate a jot from the subtlest of his metaphysical convictions.

Mr Carlyle not being en rapport with the religious spirit of his age, finds therein no religious
spirit whatever; on the other hand, he has a great deal of religion of his own, not very clear
to any but himself; and thus, between these two, we have pages, very many, of such raving as
the following:--

     "It is even so.

What is to be said of writing such as this! For ourselves, we hurry on with a sort of incredulity,
scarce believing that it is set down there for our steady perusal; we tread lightly over these
"Phantasms" and "Unveracities," and "Double-barrelled Dilettantism," (another favourite phrase
of his--pity it is not more euphonious--but none of his coinage rings well,) we step on, we
say, briskly, in the confident hope of soon meeting something--if only a stroke of humour--which
shall be worth pausing for. Accordingly in the very page where our extract stopped, in the
very next paragraph, comes a description of a certain pope most delectable to read. At one
time we hear it uttered as an impeachment against our age, that every thing is done by committees
and companies, shares and joint effort, and that no one man, or hero, can any longer move the
world as in the blessed days of Peter the Hermit. Were we disposed to treat Mr Carlye as members
of Parliament, by the help of their Hansard, controvert each other, we should have no difficulty
in finding amongst his works some passage--whether eloquent or not, or how far intelligible,
would be just a mere chance--in which he would tell us that this capacity for joint effort,
this habit of co-operation, was the greatest boast our times could make, and gave the fairest
promise for the future. In Ireland, by the way, one man can still effect something, and work
after the fashion, if not with so pure a fanaticism, as Peter the Hermit. The spectacle does
not appear very edifying. Pray--the question just occurs to us--pray has Mr O'Connell got an
eye? Would Mr Carlyle acknowledge that this man has swallowed all formulas? Having been bred
a lawyer, we are afraid, or, in common Christian speech, we hope, that he has not.

But we are not about to proceed through a volume such as this in a carping spirit, though food
enough for such a spirit may be found; there is too much genuine merit, too much genuine humour,
in the work. What, indeed, is the use of selecting from an author who will indulge in all manner
of vagaries, whether of thought or expression, passages to prove that he can be whimsical and
absurd, can deal abundantly in obscurities and contradictions, and can withal write the most
motley, confused English of any man living? Better take, with thanks, from so irregular a genius,
what seems to us good, or affords us gratification, and leave the rest alone.

We will not enter into the account of Abbot Samson; it is a little historical sketch, perfect
in its kind, in which no part is redundant, and which, being gathered itself from very scanty
sources, will not bear further mutilation. We turn, therefore, from the Past, although, in
a literary point of view, a very attractive portion of the work, and will draw our extracts
(they cannot now be numerous) from his lucubrations upon the Present.

Perhaps the most characteristic passage in the volume is that where, in the manner of a philosopher
who suddenly finds himself awake in this "half-realized" world, he scans the institution of
an army--looks out upon the soldier.

Passages there are in the work which a political agitator might be glad enough to seize on;
but, upon the whole, it is very little that Radicalism or Chartism obtain from Mr Carlyle.
No political party would choose him for its champion, or find in him a serviceable ally. Observe
how he demolishes the hope of those who expect, by new systems of election, to secure some
incomparably pure and wise body of legislators--some aristocracy of talent!

In the chapter, also, on Democracy, we have notions expressed upon liberty which would make
little impression--would be very distasteful to any audience assembled for the usual excitement
of political oratory.

We should hardly think of entering with Mr Carlyle into a controversy upon the corn-laws, or
on schemes of emigration, or any disputed point of political economy. He brings to bear upon
these certain primitive moral views and feelings which are but very remotely applicable in
the resolution of these knotty problems. We should almost as soon think of inviting the veritable
Diogenes himself, should he roll up in his tub to our door, to a discussion upon our commercial
system. Our Diogenes Teufelsdrockh looks upon these matters in a quite peculiar manner; observe,
for example, the glance he takes at our present mercantile difficulties, which, doubtless,
is not without its own value, nor undeserving of all consideration.

An amusing--caustic--exaggeration, more like a portion of a clever satire on man and society,
than a sincere discussion of political evils and remedies; and not intended, we trust, for
Mr Carlyle's own sake, to express his real belief in the true causes of the evils of society.
If we could suppose that this piece of extravagant and one-sided invective were meant to be
seriously taken, as embodying Mr Carlyle's social and political creed, we should scarcely find
words strong enough to reprobate its false and mischievous tendency.

We have already said, that we regard the chief value of Mr Carlyle's writings to consist in
the tone of mind which the individual reader acquires from their perusal;--manly, energetic,
enduring, with high resolves and self-forgetting effort; and we here again, at the close of
our paper, revert to this remark: Past and Present, has not, and could not have, the same wild
power which Sartor Resartus possessed, in our opinion, over the feelings of the reader; but
it contains passages which look the same way, and breathe the same spirit. We will quote one
or two of these, and then conclude our notice. Their effect will not be injured, we may observe,
by our brief manner of quotation.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The 'wages' of every noble work do yet lie in heaven, or else
     nowhere.

Well said! we again repeat, O Diogenes Teufelsdrockh!

       *       *       *       *       *

Edinburgh: Printed by Ballantyne and Hughes, Paul's Work.

       *       *       *       *       *