"What does this great downward journey of autumn mean?" you ask. What is the necessity for
migration among a class of birds that are able to find food in fully half of the annual range?
Why do birds seek extremes for nesting sites? This is a question about which the wise men have
many theories, but they are still groping. One theory is that once the whole country had a
more even climate and that many species of birds lived all the year in places that are now
unsuitable for a permanent residence. Therefore, the home instinct being so strong, though
they were driven from their nesting sites by scarcity of food and stress of weather, their
instinct led them back as soon as the return of spring made it possible.

Thus the hereditary love of the place where they were given life may underlie the great subject
of migration in general and that of the Bluebird's home in particular.

[Sidenote: The Bluebird at Home.]

Before more than the first notes of spring song have sounded in the distance, Bluebirds are
to be seen by twos and threes about the edge of old orchards along open roads, where the skirting
trees have crumbled or decaying knot-holes have left tempting nooks for the tree-trunk birds,
with whom the Bluebird may be classed. For, though he takes kindly to a bird-box, or a convenient
hole in a fencepost, telegraph pole or outbuilding, a tree hole must have been his first home
and consequently he has a strong feeling in its favor.

As with many other species of migrant birds, the male is the first to arrive; and he does not
seem to be particularly interested in house-hunting until the arrival of the female, when the
courtship begins without delay, and the delicate purling song with the refrain, "Dear, dear,
think of it, think of it," and the low, two-syllabled answer of the female is heard in every
orchard. The building of the nest is not an important function,--merely gathering of a few
wisps and straws, with some chance feathers for lining. It seems to be shared by both parents,
as are the duties of hatching and feeding the young. The eggs vary in number, six being the
maximum, and they are not especially attractive, being of so pale a blue that it is better
to call them a bluish white. Two broods are usually raised each year, though three are said
to be not uncommon; for Bluebirds are active during a long season, and, while the first nest
is made before the middle of April, last year a brood left the box over my rose arbor September
12, though I do not know whether this was a belated or a prolonged family arrangement.

As parents the Bluebirds are tireless, both in supplying the nest with insect food and attending
to its sanitation; the wastage being taken away and dropped at a distance from the nest at
almost unbelievable short intervals, proving the wonderful rapidity of digestion and the immense
amount of labor required to supply the mill inside the little speckled throats with grist.

The young Bluebirds are spotted thickly on throat and back, after the manner of the throat
of their cousin, the Robin, or, rather, the back feathers are spotted, the breast feathers
having dusky edges, giving a speckled effect.

The study of the graduations of plumage of almost any brightly colored male bird from its first
clothing until the perfectly matured feather of its breeding season, is in itself, a science
and a subject about which there are many theories and differences of opinion by equally distinguished
men.

[Sidenote: The Food of the Bluebird.]

The food of the nestling Bluebird is insectivorous, or, rather to be more exact, I should say
animal; but the adult birds vary their diet at all seasons by eating berries and small fruits.
In autumn and early winter, cedar and honeysuckle berries, the grape-like cluster of fruit
of the poison ivy, bittersweet and catbrier berries are all consumed according to their needs.

Professor Beal, of the Department of Agriculture, writes, after a prolonged study, that 76
per cent. of the Bluebird's food "consists of insects and their allies, while the other 24
per cent. is made up of various vegetable substances, found mostly in stomachs taken in winter.
Beetles constitute 28 per cent. of the whole food, grasshoppers 22, caterpillars 11, and various
insects, including quite a number of spiders, comprise the remainder of the insect diet. All
these are more or less harmful, except a few predaceous beetles, which amount to 8 per cent.,
but in view of the large consumption of grasshoppers and caterpillars, we can at least condone
this offense, if such it may be called. The destruction of grasshoppers is very noticeable
in the months of August and September, when these insects form more than 60 per cent. of the diet."

It is not easy to tempt Bluebirds to an artificial feeding-place, such as I keep supplied with
food for Juncos, Chickadees, Woodpeckers, Nuthatches, Jays, etc.; though in winter they will
eat dried currants and make their own selection from mill sweepings if scattered about the
trees of their haunts. For, above all things, the Bluebird, though friendly and seeking the
borderland between the wild and the tame, never becomes familiar, and never does he lose the
half-remote individuality that is one of his great charms. Though he lives with us and gives
no sign of pride of birth or race, he is not of us, as the Song Sparrow, Chippy or even the
easily alarmed Robin. The poet's mantle envelopes him even as the apple blossoms throw a rosy
mist about his doorway, and it is best so.

THE BLUEBIRDS.

1. EASTERN BLUEBIRD (SIALIA SIALIS).

Adult male.--Length 7 inches. Upper parts, wings and tail bright blue; breast and sides rusty,
reddish brown, belly white. Adult female.--Similar to the male, but upper parts except the
upper tail coverts, duller, gray or brownish blue, the breast and sides paler. Nestling.--Wings
and tail essentially like those of adult, upper parts dark sooty brown, the back spotted with
whitish; below, whitish, but the feathers of the breast and sides widely margined with brown,
producing a spotted appearance. This plumage is soon followed by the fall or winter plumage,
in which the blue feathers of the back are fringed with rusty, and young and old birds are
then alike in color.

Range.--Eastern United States west to the Rocky Mountains; nests from the Gulf States to Manitoba
and Nova Scotia; winters from southern New England southward.

1a. AZURE BLUEBIRD (SIALIA SIALIS AZUREA).

Similar to the Eastern Bluebird, but breast paler, upper parts lighter, more cerulean blue.

Range.--Mountains of eastern Mexico north to southern Arizona.

2. WESTERN BLUEBIRD (SIALIA MEXICANA OCCIDENTALIS).

Adult male.--Above deep blue, the foreback in part chestnut; throat blue, breast and sides
chestnut, the belly bluish grayish.

Adult Female.--Above grayish blue, chestnut of back faintly indicated, throat grayish blue,
breast rusty, paler than in male, belly grayish.

Range.--Pacific coast region from northern Lower California north to British Columbia, east
to Nevada.

2a. CHESTNUT-BACKED BLUEBIRD (SIALIA MEXICANA ANABELAE).

Similar to the Western Bluebird, but foreback wholly chestnut.

Range.--Rocky Mountain region from Mexico north to Wyoming.

2b. SAN PEDRO BLUEBIRD (SIALIA MEXICANA ANABELAE).

Similar to the Western Bluebird, but back with less chestnut.

Range.--San Pedro Martir mountains, Lower California.

3. MOUNTAIN BLUEBIRD (SIALIA ARCTICA).

Adult male.--Almost wholly blue, above beautiful cerulean, below paler, belly whitish. Adult
female.--Above brownish gray, upper tail coverts, wings and tail bluish below pale fawn, belly
whitish.

Range.--Western United States from Rocky Mountains to Sierras, and from New Mexico north to
the Great Slave Lake region.

    DON'T FORGET THE TREE.

    (A POEM FOR ARBOR DAY.)

    How beauteous is the lordly tree
        That scatters cooling shade!
    The landscape, O how fair and free
        By loving Nature made;
    The birds that build in leafy bough
        Hail each returning spring,
    And in the emerald forests now
        They make the Welkin ring.

    The tree we plant in years becomes
        A monarch old and gray,
    And thousands from unbuilded homes
        Will bless our Arbor Day;
    We plant not for the present time,
        But for the days in store.
    And those who come from distant clime
        Will bless us o'er and o'er.

    Hail Arbor Day! With busy hands
        With cheerful hearts and free
    We come in Nature; loving hands
        To plant the bush or tree;
    Unto the wide extending plain,
        Or to the sun scorched way
    We bring the cooling shade again
        With joy this Arbor Day.

    DON'T FORGET THE TREE.

    Where halts the pilgrim for an hour
        Let some tree rear its head,
    Our work can greet him with a flower,
        Or luscious fruit instead;
    Plant for the dawning years a tree,
        'Twill not be labor lost;
    You'll live to bless the day and see
        How little was the cost.

    Plant trees upon the barren hill
        And in the village street,
    And shade the little sunny rill
        Whose song is rich and sweet;
    Where there's a will there is a way.
        So let the children come
    And plant a tree this Arbor Day--
        A tree that stands for Home.

    Methinks the rose will fairer bloom
        Upon the bush we set,
    And softer be its perfume
        Above its coronet;
    Let every child in Freedom's land
        Hail Arbor Day with glee,
    And plant with every busy hand
        A shrub, a bush or tree.

    God made the many trees for shade,
        So plant one on this day,
    In field, in town, in glen and glade
        They yield a gentle sway;
    In troops let all the children come
        With music, song and cheer;
    For Arbor Day is near to Home,
        And Home is always dear.

    Go plant a tree where none is found,
        Make bright some treeless spot,
    And as the ceaseless years go round
        You will not be forgot;
    From hill to hill, from shore to shore,
        Let hands forget their play,
    And men will bless forevermore
        Our sacred Arbor Day.

    --T. C. Harbaugh.

    TRAILING ARBUTUS.

    Ere the latest snow of Springtime
    Leaves the shelter of the woodlands;
    While it still in every hollow
    Waits with a wavering indecision,
    Loath to vanish at the mandate
    Of the swiftly conquering sunshine--
    Then the Spirit of the Springtime
    Comes with gentle exorcism.

    'Tis the arbutus, frail beauty,
    Pale with fright, yet blushing rosy
    At the simple joy of living,
    And before her modest presence
    Harsh winds calm their fiercest bluster,
    And the last resisting armies
    Of the Snow-king quickly vanish.
    Then she sends her sweetest fragrance
    Upward, like a breath of incense,
    To the sun, who cheers and thanks her
    With his warmest, grateful kisses.

    --Mary Nowlan Wittwer, Adelphi, Ohio.

THE LOGAN ELM.

The Logan Elm, about six miles from Circleville, with five acres of park surrounding it, is
now the property of the Ohio Historical and Archaeological Society, having been transferred
to that organization by the Pickaway Historical Association on October 2, 1912. It is altogether
proper that this historic tree and ground should become the property of Ohio so that every
person in our commonwealth may feel a proprietary interest in this spot and all that it means.

We have traveled far on the pathway of civilization since the day when the Chief of the Mingoes
made this spot memorable by his native eloquence, but we do well to look back, now and again,
to these landmarks so as to catch a view of the road over which we have come. Such a view gives
us courage and spirit for the journey that lies before us for we are made to feel that since
we have done this much we shall be able to do even more and better.

In his historical collections Howe says of the speech of Logan: "It was repeated throughout
the North American Colonies as a lesson of eloquence in the schools, and copied upon the pages
of literary journals in Great Britain and the Continent. This brief effusion of mingled pride,
courage and sorrow, elevated the character of the native American throughout the intelligent
world; and the place where it was delivered can never be forgotten so long as touching eloquence
is admired by men."

This being true, it is quite fitting that the schools shall place this speech in the category
of eloquence and give the children to know that real eloquence is the expression of deep and
sincere emotion. The Logan Elm remains to us the visible symbol of an example of this sort
of eloquence and our celebration of Arbor Day will be all the more inspiring if all the children
come to know the meaning of this tree and feel the real eloquence of the speech. Not one."

--F. B. Pearson.

    LITTLE DOG TRAY.

    When at the close of a wearisome day
    Homeward disheartened, you moodily stray,
    What would you take for your little dog Tray?
    Take for the wag of his tail?

    Sitting alone at the old picket gate,
    Little dog Tray will patiently wait
    Watching: No matter if early or late
    Slow is the wag of his tail.

    Look! see him start as a form comes in view!
    What has the dog with that vision to do?
    How does he tell that he knows it is you?
    Just by the wag of his tail.

    Oh, the wild glee in his rhythmical song
    Sung in the motion that keeps him along!
    Is it a love that he bears for the throng?
    Judge by the wag of his tail.

    Swift as the wind he has run to your side,
    Eager and happy to show you his pride;
    Bounding aloft, then ahead as your guide
    Merrily wagging his tail.

    No one may know why he loves you so well
    Nor if your voice or your face weave the spell
    But that he loves you his actions will tell,
    Such as the wag of his tail.

    Loves you and shares in your hunger and thirst
    Riches and poverty, landed or cursed,
    Always the same, for the best or the worst
    Proved by the wag of his tail.

    Love such as his will abide to the end,
    Do what you will, distort your ways you may wend,
    Hardships and knocks but insure him your friend
    Shown by the wag of his tail.

    Curse him--he lies at your feet to adore!
    Strike him--he loves you the same as before!
    Violent blows--snap your finger! Once more
    There is the wag of his tail.

    Watchful he sits at your side in repose
    Loyal before you he stealthily goes
    Eager to champion your cause with your foes
    Told by the wag of his tail.

    Friendship may fade and earth's love may grow cold
    Chains such as these oft are flimsiest mold,
    Love of the dog for his master will hold
    Long as the wag of his tail.

    Not as a peer, neither cringing like slave
    One solemn boon, as the last he may crave,
    Little dog Tray sits and moans on your grave
    Sad is the way of his tail.

    A KIPLING TRIBUTE.

"MAN'S BEST FRIEND."

Senator Vest had been retained as the Attorney of a man whose dog had been wantonly shot by
a neighbor. The plaintiff demanded $200.00.

When Vest finished speaking the jury awarded $500.00 without leaving their seats. This is what
he said:

