But to return to the Rue d'Anjou. A loud noise in the street announced the approach of the
Indians, whose appearance in an open carriage had drawn together a dense crowd of sight-loving
Parisians; and in a few moments they entered, decked out in characteristic finery, but without
any of that natural grace and dignity which I had been taught to look for in the natives of
the forest. The General received them with the dignified affability which was the distinctive
characteristic of his manner under all circumstances; and although there was nothing in the
occasion to justify it, I could not help recalling Madame de Staël's comment upon his appearance
at Versailles, on the fearful fifth of October:--"M. de la Fayette was perfectly calm; nobody
ever saw him otherwise." Withdrawing with them into an inner room, he did his best, as he afterwards
told me, to prevail upon them to return home, though not without serious doubts of the honesty
of their interpreter. It was while this private conference was going on that I got my first
sight of Cooper,--completing my morning's experience by exchanging a few words with the man,
of all others among my countrymen, whom I had most wished to know. Meanwhile the table in the
dining-room was spread with cakes and preserves, and before the company withdrew, they had
a good opportunity of convincing themselves, that, if the American Indian had made but little
progress in the other arts of civilization, he had attained to a full appreciation of the virtues
of sweetmeats and pastry.

I cannot close this portion of my story without relating my second interview with my aboriginal
countrymen, not quite so satisfactory as the first, but at least with its amusing, or rather
its laughable side. I was living in Siena, a quiet old Tuscan town, with barely fifteen thousand
inhabitants to occupy a circuit of wall that had once held fifty,--but with all the remains
of its former greatness about it, noble palaces, a cathedral second in beauty to that of Milan
alone, churches filled with fine pictures, an excellent public library, (God's blessing be
upon it, for it was in one of its dreamy alcoves that I first read Dante,) a good opera in
the summer, and good society all the year round. Month was gliding after month in happy succession.
I had dropped readily into the tranquil round of the daily life, had formed many acquaintances
and two or three intimate ones, and, though reminded from time to time of the General by a
paternal letter, had altogether forgotten the specimens of the children of the forest whom
I had seen under his roof. One evening--I do not remember the month, though I think it was
late in the autumn--I had made up my mind to stay at home and study, and was just sitting down
to my books, when a friend came in with the air of a man who had something very interesting to say.

"Quick, quick! shut your book, and come with me to the theatre."

"Impossible! I'm tired, and, moreover, have something to do which I must do to-night."

"To-morrow night will do just as well for that, but not for the theatre."

"Why?"

"Because there are some of your countrymen here who are going to be exhibited on the stage,
and the Countess P---- and all your friends want you to come and interpret for them."

"Infinitely obliged. And pray, what do you mean by saying that some of my countrymen are to
be exhibited on the stage? Do you take Americans for mountebanks?"

"No, I don't mean that; but it is just as I tell you. Some Americans will appear on the stage
to-night and make a speech in American, and you must come and explain it to us."

I must confess, that, at first, my dignity was a little hurt at the idea of an exhibition of
Americans; but a moment's reflection convinced me that I had no grounds for offence, and all
of a sudden it occurred to me that the "Americans" might be my friends of the Rue d'Anjou,
whose "guide and interpreter," though hardly their "friend," had got them down as far as Siena
on the general embassy. I was resolved to see, and accordingly exchanging my dressing-gown
and slippers for a dress-box costume, I accompanied my friend to the theatre. My appearance
at the pit-door was the signal for nods and beckonings from a dozen boxes; but as no one could
dispute the superior claims of the Countess P----, I soon found myself seated in the front
of her Ladyship's box, and the chief object of attention till the curtain rose.

"And now, my dear G----, tell us all about these strange countrymen of yours,--how they live,--whether
it is true that they eat one another,--what kind of houses they have,--how they treat their
women,--and everything else that we ought to know."

Two or three years later, when Cooper began to be translated, they would have known better;
but now nothing could convince them that I was not perfectly qualified to answer all their
questions and stand interpreter between my countrymen and the audience. Fortunately, I had
read Irving's beautiful paper in the "Sketch-Book," and knew "The Last of the Mohicans" by
heart; and putting together, as well as I could, the ideas of Indian life I had gained from
these sources, I accomplished my task to the entire satisfaction of my interrogators. At last
the curtain rose, and, though reduced in number, and evidently much the worse for their protracted
stay in the land of civilization and brandy, there they were, the very Osages I had seen at
the good old General's. The interpreter came forward and told his story, making them chiefs
of rank on a tour of pleasure. And a burly-looking fellow, walking up and down the stage with
an air that gave the lie to every assertion of the interpreter, made a speech in deep gutturals
to the great delight of the listeners. Fortunately for me, the Italian love of sound kept my
companions still till the speech was ended, and then, just as they were turning to me for a
translation, the interpreter announced his intention of translating it for them himself. Nothing
else, I verily believe, could have saved my reputation, and enabled me to retain my place as
a native-born American. When the exhibition was over,--and even with the ludicrousness of my
part of it, to me it was a sad one,--I went behind the scenes to take a nearer view of these
poor victims of avarice. They were sitting round a warming-pan, looking jaded and worn, brutalized
beyond even what I had first imagined. It was my last sight of them, and I was glad of it;
how far they went, and how many of them found their way back to their native land, I never
was able to learn.

Before I left the Rue d'Anjou, it was arranged, that, as soon as I had seen a little more of
Paris, I should go to La Grange. "One of the young ladies will teach you French," said the
General, "and you can make your plans for the winter at your leisure."

LA GRANGE.

It was on a bright autumn morning that I started for the little village of Rosay,--some two
leagues from Paris, and the nearest point by diligence to La Grange. A railroad passes almost
equally near to it now, and the French diligence, like its English and American counterpart,
the stage-coach, has long since been shorn of its honors. Yet it was a pleasant mode of travelling,
taking you from place to place in a way to give you a good general idea of the country you
were passing through, and bringing you into much closer relations with your fellow-travellers
than you can form in a rail-car. There was the crowd at the door of the post-house where you
stopped to change horses, and the little troop of wooden-shoed children that followed you up
the hill, drawling out in unison, "Un peu de charité, s'il vous plaît," gradually quickening
their pace as the horses began to trot, and breaking all off together and tumbling in a heap
as they scrambled for the sous that were thrown out to them.

For a light, airy people, the French have a wonderful facility in making clumsy-looking vehicles.
To look at a diligence, you would say that it was impossible to guide it through a narrow street,
or turn it into a gate. The only thing an American would think of likening it to would be three
carriages of different shapes fastened together. First came the Coupé, in shape like an old-fashioned
chariot, with a seat for three persons, and glass windows in front and at the sides that gave
you a full view of everything on the road. This was the post of honor, higher in price, and,
on long journeys, always secured a day or two beforehand. Not the least of its advantages was
the amusement it afforded you in watching the postilion and his horses,--a never-failing source
of merriment; and what to those who know how important it is, in a set of hungry travellers,
to secure a good seat at table, the important fact that the coupé-door was the first door opened,
and the coupé-passengers received as the most distinguished personages of the party. The Intérieur
came next: somewhat larger than our common coach, with seats for six, face to face, two good
windows at the sides, and netting above for parcels of every kind and size: a comfortable place,
less exposed to jolts than the coupé even, and much to be desired, if you could but make sure
of a back-corner and an accommodating companion opposite to you. Last of all was the Rotonde,
with its entrance from the rear, its seats length-wise, room for six, and compensating in part
for its comparative inferiority in other respects by leaving you free to get in and out as
you chose, without consulting the conductor. This, however, was but the first story, or the
rooms of state of this castle on wheels. On a covered dicky, directly above the coupé, and
thus on the very top of the whole machine, was another row of passengers, with the conductor
in front, looking down through the dust upon the world beneath them, not very comfortable when
the sun was hot, still less comfortable of a rainy day, but just in the place which of all
others a real traveller would wish to be in at morning or evening or of a moonlight night.
The remainder of the top was reserved for the baggage, carefully packed and covered up securely
from dust and rain.

I had taken the precaution to engage a seat in the coupé the day before I set out. Of my companions,
I am sorry to say, I have not the slightest recollection. But the road was good,--bordered,
as so many French roads are, with trees, and filled with a thousand objects full of interest
to a young traveller. There was the roulage: an immense cart filled with goods of all descriptions,
and drawn by four or five horses, ranged one before another, each decked with a merry string
of bells, and generally rising in graduated proportions from the full-sized leader to the enormous
thill horse, who bore the heat and burden of the day. Sometimes half a dozen of them would
pass in a row, the drivers walking together and whiling away the time with stories and songs.
Now and then a post-chaise would whirl by with a clattering of wheels and cracking of whip
that were generally redoubled as it came nearer to the diligence, and sank again, when it was
passed, into comparative moderation both of noise and speed. There were foot travellers, too,
in abundance; and as I saw them walking along under the shade of the long line of trees that
bordered the road, I could not help thinking that this thoughtful provision for the protection
of the traveller was the most pleasing indication I had yet seen of a country long settled.

While I was thus looking and wondering, and drawing perhaps the hasty comparisons of a novice,
I saw a gentleman coming towards us with a firm, quick step, his blue surtout buttoned tight
over his breast, a light walking-stick in his hand, and with the abstracted air of a man who
saw something beyond the reach of the bodily eye. It was Cooper, just returning from a visit
to the General, and dreaming perhaps of his forest-paths or the ocean. His carriage with his
family was coming slowly on behind. A day earlier and I should have found them all at La Grange.

It was evident that the good people of Rosay were accustomed to the sight of travellers on
their way to La Grange with a very small stock of French; for I had hardly named the place,
when a brisk little fellow, announcing himself as the guide of all the Messieurs Américains,
swung my portmanteau upon his back and set out before me at the regular jog-trot of a well-trained
porter. The distance was but a mile, the country level, and we soon came in sight of the castle.
Castle, indeed, it was, with its pointed Norman towers, its massive walls, and broad moat,--memorials
of other days,--and already gray with age before the first roof-tree was laid in the land which
its owner had helped to build up to a great nation. On a hill-side its appearance would have
been grand. As it was, it was impressive, and particularly as first seen from the road. The
portcullis was gone, but the arched gateway still remained, flanked by towers that looked sombre
and stern, even amidst the deep green of the ivy which covered the left tower almost to the
battlements. I was afterwards told that the ivy itself had a special significance,--having
been planted by Charles Fox, during a visit to La Grange not long before his death. And Fox,
it will be remembered, had exerted all his eloquence to induce the English Government to demand
the liberation of Lafayette from Olmütz,--an act which called down upon him at the time the
bitterest invectives of party rhetoric, but which the historian of England now records as a
bright page in the life of one of her greatest men. Ah, how different would our record be,
if we could always follow our instinct of immortality, and in all our actions look thoughtfully
forward to the judgment of the future!

Passing under the massive arch, I found myself in the castle court. Three sides of the edifice
were still standing, darkened, indeed, and distained by the winds and rains of centuries, but
with an air of modern comfort and neatness about the doors and windows that seemed more in
keeping than the moat and towers with the habits of the present day. The other curtain had
been thrown down years before,--how or why nobody could tell me, but not improbably in some
of the domestic wars which fill and defile the annals of mediaeval Europe. In those days the
loss of it must have been a serious one; but for the modern occupant it was a real gain,--letting
in the air and sunlight, and opening a pleasant view of green plantations from every window
of the court.

A servant met me at the main entrance, a broad stairway directly opposite the gate, and, taking
my card, led me up to a spacious hall, where he asked me to wait while he went to announce
my arrival to the General. The hall was a large oblong room, plainly, but neatly furnished,
with a piano at one end, its tessellated oaken floor highly polished, and communicating by
folding-doors with an inner room, in which I caught a glimpse of a bright wood-fire, and a
portrait of Bailly over the mantel. On the wall, to the left of the folding-doors, was suspended
an American flag with its blue field of stars and its red and white stripes looking down upon
me in a way that made my American veins tingle.

But I had barely time to look around me before I heard a heavy step on the stairs, and the
next moment the General entered. This time he gave me a French greeting, pressing me in his
arms and kissing me on both cheeks. "We were expecting you," said he, "and you are in good
season for dinner. Let me show you your room."

If I had had my choice of all the rooms in the castle, I should have chosen the very one that
had been assigned me. It was on the first--not the ground--floor, at the end of a long vaulted
gallery and in a tower. There was a deep alcove from the bed,--a window looking down upon the
calm waters of the moat, and giving glimpses, through the trees, of fields and woods beyond,--a
fireplace with a cheerful fire, which had evidently been kindled the moment my arrival was
known,--the tessellated floor with its waxen gloss,--and the usual furniture of a French bed-room,
a good table and comfortable chairs. A sugar-bowl filled with sparkling beet sugar, and a decanter
of fresh water, on the mantel-piece, would have shown me, if there had been nothing else to
show it, that I was in France. The General looked round the room to make sure that all was
comfortably arranged for me, and then renewing his welcome, and telling me that the castle-bell
would ring for dinner in about half an hour, left me to take possession of my quarters and
change my dress.

If I had not been afraid of getting belated, I should have sat down awhile to collect my thoughts
and endeavor to realize where I was. But as it was, I could do little more than unpack my trunk,
arrange my books and writing-materials on the table, and change my dusty clothes, before the
bell rang. Oh, how that bell sounded through the long corridor from its watch-tower over the
gateway! And how I shrank back when I found myself on the threshold of the hall and saw the
inner room full! The General must have divined my feelings; for, the moment he saw me, he came
forward to meet me, and, taking me by the arm, presented me to all the elders of the party
in turn. He apparently supposed, that, with the start I had had in the Rue d'Anjou, I should
make my way among the younger ones myself.

It was a family circle covering three generations: the General, his son and daughter-in-law
and two daughters, and ten grandchildren,--among whom I was glad to see some of both sexes
sufficiently near my own age to open a very pleasant prospect for me whenever I should have
learnt French enough to feel at home among them. Nor was the domestic character of the group
broken by the presence of a son of Casimir Périer, who was soon to marry George Lafayette's
eldest daughter, the Count de Ségur, the General's uncle, though but a month or two his elder,
and the Count de Tracy, father of Madame George de Lafayette, and founder of the French school
of Ideology, companions, both of them, of the General's youth, and, at this serene close of
a life of strange vicissitudes and bitter trials, still his friends. Levasseur, his secretary,
who had accompanied him in his visit to the United States, with his German wife, a young gentleman
whose name I have forgotten, but who was the private tutor of young Jules de Lasteyrie, and
Major Frye, an English half-pay officer, of whom I shall have a good deal more to say by-and-by,
completed the circle. We formed a long procession to the dining-room, and I shall never forget
how awkward I felt on finding myself walking, with the General's arm in mine, at the head of
it. There was a certain air of high breeding, of respect for others founded on self-respect,
and a perfect familiarity with all the forms of society, which relieved me from much of my
embarrassment by making me feel instinctively that nobody would take unpleasant notice of it.
Still, that first dinner was a trial to my nerves, though I do not remember that the trial
interfered with my appetite. It was served, of course, in courses, beginning with soup and
ending with fruit. Most of the dishes, as I afterwards learned, were the produce of the farm,
and they certainly bore good witness to the farmer's judgment and skill. The General was a
hearty eater, as most Frenchmen are; but he loved to season his food with conversation, and,
much as he relished his meals, he seemed to relish the pleasant talk between the courses still
more. As I was unable to follow the conversation of the table, I came in for a large share
of the General's attention, who would turn to me every now and then with something pleasant
to say. He had had the consideration, too, to place one of the young ladies next to me, directly
on my right, as I was on his; and her English, though not perfectly fluent, was fluent enough
to enable us to keep up a lively interlude.

On returning to the drawing-room, the General led me up to a portrait of my grandfather, and
indulged himself for a while in endeavoring to trace a resemblance between us. I say indulged;
for he often, down to the last time that I ever saw him, came back to this subject, and seemed
to take a peculiar pleasure in it. He had been warmly attached to General Greene, and the attachment
which both of them bore to Washington served to strengthen their attachment to each other.
This portrait, a copy from Peale, had been one of the fruits of his last visit to the United
States, and hung, with those of some other personal friends,--great men all of them,--on the
drawing-room wall. His Washington was a bronze from Houdon's bust, and stood opposite the mantel-piece
on a marble pedestal. Conversation and music filled up the rest of the evening, and before
I withdrew for the night it had been arranged that I should begin my French the next morning,
with one of the young ladies for teacher. And thus ended my first day at La Grange.

EVERY-DAY LIFE AT LA GRANGE.

The daily life at La Grange was necessarily systematic. The General's position compelled him
to see a great deal of company and exposed him to constant interruptions. He kept a kind of
open table, at which part of the faces seemed to be changing every day. Then there were his
own children, with claims upon his attention which he was not disposed to deny, and a large
family of grandchildren to educate, upon all of whose minds he wished to leave personal impressions
of their intercourse with him which should make them feel how much he loved and cherished them
all. Fortunately, the size of the castle made it easy to keep the family rooms distant from
the rooms of the guests; and a judicious division of time enabled him to preserve a degree
of freedom in the midst of constraint, which, though the rule in Europe, American hosts in
town or country have very little conception of.

Every one rose at his own hour, and was master of his time till eleven. If he wanted an early
breakfast, he could have a cup of coffee or chocolate or milk in his room for the asking. But
the family breakfast-hour was at eleven, a true French breakfast, and attended with all the
forms of dinner except in dress. The castle-bell was rung; the household collected in the parlor;
and all descended in one order to the dining-room. It was pleasant to see this morning gathering.
The General was almost always among the first to come in and take his stand by the fireplace,
with a cordial greeting for each guest in turn. As his grandchildren entered, they went up
to offer their morning salutations to him first of all, and there was the paternal kiss on
the forehead and a pleasant word for each. His son and daughters generally saw him in his own
room before they came down.

Breakfast was a cheerful meal, served in courses like dinner, and seasoned with conversation,
in which every one was free to take a part or listen, as he felt disposed. There was no hurry,
no confusion about it; all sat down and rose at the same time; and as every one that worked
at all had evidently done part of his day's work before he came to table, all came with good
appetites. Then came the family walk, all starting out in a group, but always sure to break
up into smaller groups as they went on: the natural law of affinities never failing to make
itself felt, and they who found most pleasure in each other's society generally ending their
walk together. Sometimes the General would come a little way with us, but soon turned off to
the farm, or dropped behind and went back to his books and letters. An hour in the grounds
passed quickly,--too quickly, I often used to think; and then, unless, as occasionally happened,
there was an excursion on foot which all were to take part in, the members of the family withdrew
to their own apartments, and the guests were left free to fill up the time till dinner as they
chose. With books, papers, and visits from room to room, or strolls about the grounds, the
hours never lagged; and much as one day seemed like another, there was always something of
its own to remember it by. Of course, this regularity was not the result of chance. Behind
the visible curtain was the invisible spirit guiding and directing all. It was no easy task
to provide abundantly, and yet judiciously, for a family always large, but which might at any
moment be almost doubled without an hour's notice. The farm, as I have already said, furnished
a full proportion of the daily supplies, and the General was the farmer. But the daily task
of distribution and arrangement fell to the young ladies, each of whom took her week of housekeeping
in turn. The very first morning I was admitted behind the scenes. "If you want anything before
breakfast," said one of the young ladies, as the evening circle was breaking up, "come down
into the butler's room and get it." And to the butler's room I went; and there, in a calico
fitted as neatly as the rich silk of the evening before, with no papers in her hair, with nothing
but a richer glow to distinguish the morning from the evening face, with laughing eyes and
busy hands, issuing orders and inspecting dishes, stood the very girl with whom I was to begin
at nine my initiation into the mysteries of French. There must have been something peculiar
in the grass which the cows fed on at La Grange; for I used to go regularly every morning for
my cup of milk, and it never disagreed with me.

MY FRENCH.

Oh, that lesson of French! Two seats at the snug little writing-table, and only one witness
of my blunders; for nobody ever thought of coming into the drawing-room before the breakfast-bell.
Unfortunately for me, Ollendorff had not yet published his thefts from Manesca; and instead
of that brisk little war of question and answer, which loosens the tongue so readily to strange
sounds and forms the memory so promptly to the combinations of a new idiom, I had to struggle
on through the scanty rules and multitudinous exceptions of grammar, and pick my way with the
help of a dictionary through the harmonious sentences of "Télémaque." And never had sentences
seemed so harmonious to my ears before; and never, I fear, before had my young friend's patience
been so sorely tried, or her love of fun put under so unnatural a restraint. "Calypso ne pouvait
se consoler," over and over and over again, her rosy lips moving slowly in order to give distinctness
to every articulation, and her blue eyes fairly dancing with repressed laughter at my awkward
imitation. If my teacher's patience could have given me a good pronunciation, mine would have
been perfect. Day after day she came back to her task, and ever as the clock told nine would
meet me at the door with the same genial smile.

Nearly twenty years afterwards I found myself once more in Paris, and at a large party at the
house of the American Minister, the late Mr. King. As I was wandering through the rooms, looking
at group after group of unknown faces, my eye fell upon one that I should have recognized at
once as that of my first teacher of French, if it had not seemed to me impossible that twenty
years could have passed over it so lightly.

"Who is that lady?" I asked of a gentleman near me, whom it was impossible not to set down
at once for an American.

"Why, that is Madame de ----, a grand-daughter of General Lafayette."

I can hardly account, at this quiet moment, for the sudden impulse that seized me; but resist
it I could not; and walking directly up to her, I made my lowest bow, and, without giving her
time to look me well in the face, repeated, with all the gravity I could command, "Calypso
ne pouvait se consoler du départ d'Ulysse."

"O! Monsieur Greene," said she, holding out both her hands, "it must be you!"

THE GENERAL.

General Lafayette had just entered his seventy-first year. In his childhood he had been troubled
by a weakness of the chest which gave his friends some anxiety. But his constitution was naturally
good, and air, exercise, and exposure gradually wore away every trace of his original debility.
While still a young man, his right leg--the same, I believe, that had been wounded in rallying
our broken troops at the Brandywine--was fractured by a fall on the ice, leaving him lame for
the rest of his days. This did not prevent him, however, from walking about his farm, though
it cut him off from the use of the saddle, and gave a halt to his gait, which but for his dignity
of carriage would have approached to awkwardness.

His method of life was very regular,--the regularity of thirty years of comparative retirement,
following close upon fifteen years of active public life, begun at twenty in the army of Washington,
and ending in a Prussian and Austrian dungeon at thirty-five.

His private apartments consisted of two rooms on the second floor. The first was his bed-room,
a cheerful, though not a large room, nearly square, with a comfortable fireplace, and a window
looking out upon the lawn and woods behind the castle. Just outside of the bed-room, and the
first object that struck your eye on approaching it from the gallery, was a picture by one
of his daughters, representing the burly turnkey of Olmütz in the act of unlocking his dungeon-door.
"It is a good likeness," said the General to me, the first time that he took me to his rooms,--"a
very good likeness. I remember the features well." From the bed-room a door opened into a large
turret-room, well lighted and airy, and which, taking its shape from the tower in which it
stood, was almost a perfect circle. This was the General's library. The books were arranged
in open cases, filling the walls from floor to ceiling, and with a neatness and order which
revealed an artistic appreciation of their effect. It was lighted by two windows, one opening
on the lawn, the other on the farm-yards, and both, from the thickness of the walls, looking
like deep recesses. In the window that looked upon the farm-yards was the General's writing-table
and seat. A spy-glass lay within reach, enabling him to overlook the yard-work without rising
from his chair; and on the table were his farm-books, with the record of crops and improvements
entered in regular order with his own hand. Charles Sumner, who visited La Grange last summer,
tells me that they lie there still.

The library was miscellaneous, many of the books being presentation-copies, and most of them
neatly bound. Its predominant character, as nearly as I can recollect, was historical; the
history in which he had borne so important a part naturally coming in for a full share. Though
not a scholar from choice, General Lafayette loved books, and was well read. His Latin had
stood him in stead at Olmütz for his brief communication with his surgeon; and I have a distinct
impression, though I cannot vouch for the correctness of it, that he never dropped it altogether.
His associations were too much among men of thought as well as men of action, and the responsibilities
that weighed upon him were too grave, to permit so conscientious a man to neglect the aid of
books. Of the historians of our Revolution, he preferred Ramsay, who had, as he said, put everything
into his two volumes, and abridged as well as Eutropius. It was, perhaps, the presence of something
of the same quality that led him to give the preference, among the numerous histories of the
French Revolution, to Mignet, though, in putting him into my hands, he cautioned me against
that dangerous spirit of fatalism, which, making man the unconscious instrument of an irresistible
necessity, leaves him no real responsibility for evil or for good.

It was in this room that he passed the greater part of the time that was not given to his farm
or his guests. I never entered it without finding him at his desk, with his pen or a book in
hand. His correspondence was so extensive that he was always obliged to keep a secretary, though
a large portion of his letters were written with his own hand. He wrote rapidly in fact, though
not rapidly to the eye; and you were surprised, in seeing his hand move over the paper, to
find how soon it reached the bottom of the sheet, and how closely it filled it up. His handwriting
was clear and distinct, neither decidedly French nor decidedly English,--like all his habits
and opinions, formed early and never changed. I have letters of his to my grandfather, written
during the Revolution, and letters of his to myself, written fifty years after it, in which
it is almost impossible to trace the difference between the old man and the young one. English
he seemed to write as readily as French, although a strong Gallicism would every now and then
slip from his pen, as it slipped from his tongue. "I had to learn in a hurry," said he, giving
me one day the history of his English studies. "I began on my passage out, as soon as I got
over my sea-sickness, and picked up the rest in camp. I was compelled to write and talk, and
so I learned to write and talk. The officers were very kind and never laughed at me. After
the peace, Colonel Tarleton came over to Paris, and was presented to the King one day when
I happened to be at Court. The King asked him how I spoke English. 'I cannot say how he speaks
it, Sire,' said the Colonel, 'but I occasionally had the good-luck to pick up some of his letters
that were going the wrong way, and I can assure your Majesty that they were very well written.'"

His valet was an old soldier, who had served through the Peninsular War, and who moved about
with the orderly gait and quiet air of a man who had passed his heyday under the forming influences
of camp discipline. He was a most respectable-looking man, as well as a most respectful servant;
and it was impossible to see him busying himself about the General at his morning toilet, and
watch his delicate handling of the lather-brush and razor, without feeling, that, however true
the old proverb may have been in other cases, Bastien's master was a hero to him.

The General's dress was always simple, though studiously neat. His republicanism was of the
school of Washington, and would have shrunk from a public display of a bare neck and shirt-sleeves.
Blue was his usual winter color; a frock-coat in the morning, and a dress-coat for dinner,
and both near enough to the prevailing fashion to escape remark. He had begun serious life
too early to have ever been anything of a dandy, even if Nature had seen fit to contradict
herself so far as to have intended him for one.

