In Hamlet's leaping into Ophelia's Grave, (which is express'd with great Energy and Force of
Passion) we have the first real Proof of his Love for her, which during this whole Piece has
been forced to submit to Passions of greater Weight and Force, and here is suffered to break
out chiefly, as it is necessary towards the Winding up of the Piece. It is but an Under-Passion
in the Play, and seems to be introduced more to conform to the Plan our Poet built upon, than
for any Thing else; tho' as the whole Play is managed, it conduces towards the Conclusion,
as well as it diversifies, and adds Beauties to the whole Piece.

Page 357.

The Scene of the Fop Osrick is certainly intended as a Satire upon the young Courtiers of those
Days, and is humourously express'd, but is, I think, improper for Tragedy.

Hamlet's feeling, as it were, a Presage in his own Breast, of the Misfortune impending from
his accepting Laertes's Challenge, is beautiful; and we are to note, that our Author in several
of his Plays, has brought in the chief Personages as having a sort of prophetick Idea of their
Death; as in Romeo and Juliet. It was (I doubt not) the Opinion of the Age he lived in.

Laertes's Death, and the Queen's, are truly poetical Justice, and very naturally brought about;
although I do not conceive it to be so easy to change Rapiers in a Scuffle, without knowing
it at the Time.

The Death of the Queen is particularly according to the strictest Rules of Justice, for she
loses her Life by the Villany of the very Person, who had been the Cause of all her Crimes.

Page 364.

Since the Poet deferred so long the Usurper's Death, we must own, that he has very naturally
effected it, and still added fresh Crimes to those the Murderer had already committed.

Upon Laertes's Repentance for contriving the Death of Hamlet, one cannot but feel some Sentiments
of Pity for him; but who can see or read the Death of the young Prince without melting into
Tears and Compassion? Horatio's earned Desire to die with the Prince, (p. 365, and Sequel,)
thus not to survive his Friend, gives a stronger Idea of his Friendship for Hamlet in the few
Lines on that Occasion, than many Actions or Expressions could possibly have done. And Hamlet's
begging him to draw his Breath in this Harsh World a little longer, to clear his Reputation
and manifest his Innocence, is very suitable to his virtuous Character, and the honest Regard
that all Men should have not to be misrepresented to Posterity; that they may not let a bad
Example, when in reality they have set a good one; which is the only Motive that can, in Reason,
recommend the Love of Fame and Glory.

Page 366.

When the Ambassadors from England say,

   Where shall we have our Thanks?

And Horatio answers,

   Not from his Mouth,
   He never gave, &c.

I wonder that Mr. Theobalds should see any Difficulty in this; for it is but applying to the
King what Horatio says, who knew the whole Affair, and then his Answer is just and true; and
indeed, I think it cannot well be understood in any other Sense from the whole Tenour of the
Passage.

Horatio's Desire of having the Bodies carried to a Stage, &c. is very well imagined, and was
the best way of satisfying the Request of his deceased Friend. And he acts in this, and in
all Points, suitably to the manly, honest Character under which he is drawn throughout the
whole Piece. Besides, it gives a sort of Content to the Audience, that tho' their Favourite
(which must be Hamlet) did not escape with Life, yet the greatest amends will be made him,
which can be in this World, viz. Justice done to his Memory.

Fortinbrass comes in very naturally at the Close of this Play, and lays a very just Claim to
the Throne of Denmark, as he had the dying Voice of the Prince. He in few Words gives a noble
Character of Hamlet, and serves to carry off the deceased Hero from the Stage with the Honours
due to his Birth and Merit.

I shall close these Remarks with some general Observations, and shall avoid (as I have hitherto
done) repeating any Thing which has been said by others, at least as much as I possibly can:
Nor do I think it necessary to make an ostentatious Shew of Learning, or to draw quaint Parallels
between our Author and the great Tragic Writers of Antiquity; for in Truth, this is very little
to the Purpose in reviewing Shakespeare's Dramatic Works; since most Men are I believe convinced,
that he is very little indebted to any of them; and a remarkable Influence of this is to be
observed in his Tragedy of Troilus and Cressida, wherein it appears (as Mr. Theobalds has evidently
demonstrated it,) that he has chosen an old English Romance concerning the Trojan War, as a
worthier Guide than even Homer himself. Nature was our great Poet's Mistress; her alone has
he followed as his Conductress; and therefore it has been with regard to her only, that I have
considered this Tragedy. It is not to be denied, but that Shakespeare's Dramatic Works are
in general very much mix'd; his Gold is strangely mingled with Dross in most of his Pieces.
He fell too much into the low Taste of the Age he liv'd in, which delighted in miserable Puns,
low Wit, and affected sententious Maxims; and what is most unpardonable in him, he has interspersed
his noblest Productions with this Poorness of Thought. This I have shewn in my Remarks on this
Play. Yet, notwithstanding the Defects I have pointed out, it is, I think, beyond Dispute,
that there is much less of this in Hamlet than in any of his Plays; and that the Language in
the Whole, is much more pure, and much more free from Obscurity or Bombast, than any of our
Author's Tragedies; for sometimes Shakespeare may be justly tax'd with that Fault. And we may
moreover take Notice, that the Conduct of this Piece is far from being bad; it is superior
in that respect (in my Opinion) to many of those Performances in which the Rules are said to
be exactly kept to. The Subject, which is of the nicest Kind, is managed with great Delicacy,
much beyond that Piece wherein Agamemnon's Death is revenged by his Son Orestes, so much admired
by all the Lovers of Antiquity; for the Punishment of the Murderer alone by the Son of the
murdered Person, is sufficient; there is something too shocking in a Mother's being put to
Death by her Son, although she be never so guilty. Shakespeare's Management in this Particular,
has been much admired by one of our greatest Writers, who takes Notice of the beautiful Caution
given by the Ghost to Hamlet,

   But howsoever thou pursuest this Act, &c.

The making the Whole to turn upon the Appearance of a Spectre, is a great Improvement of the
Plan he work'd upon; especially as he has conducted it in so sublime a Manner, and accompanied
it with all the Circumstances that could make it most perfect in its kind.

I have observed in my Remarks, that the Poet has, with great Art, brought about the Punishment
of the guilty Queen by the very Person who caused her Guilt, and this without Staining her
Son's Hands with her Blood.

There is less Time employ'd in this Tragedy, as I observed else where, than in most of our
Author's Pieces, and the Unity of Place is not much disturbed. But here give me leave to say,
that the Critick's Rules, in respect to these two Things, if they prove any Thing, prove too
much; for if our Imagination will not bear a strong Imposition, surely no Play ought to be
supposed to take more Time than is really employ'd in the Acting; nor should there be any Change
of Place in the least. This shews the Absurdity of such Arbitrary Rules. For how would such
a Genius as Shakespeare's have been cramped had he thus fettered himself! But there is (in
Truth) no Necessity for it. No Rules are of any Service in Poetry, of any kind, unless they
add Beauties, which consist (in Tragedy) in an exact Conformity to Nature in the Conduct of
the Characters, and in a sublimity of Sentiments and nobleness of Diction. If these two Things
be well observed, tho' often at the Expence of Unity of Time and Place, such Pieces will always
please, and never suffer us to find out the little Defects in the Plot; nay it generally happens
(at least Experience has shewn it frequently) that those Pieces wherein the fantastick Rules
of Criticks have been kept strictly to, have been generally flat and low. In the first Place,
our Understandings are never shocked at hearing all Nations, on our Stage, speak English; an
Absurdity one would think that should immediately revolt us; but which is, however, absolutely
necessary in all Countries where Dramatick Performances are resorted to, unless the Characters
be always supposed to be of each respective Nation; as for instance, in all Shakespeare's Historical
Plays. I say, this never shocks us nor do we find any Difficulty in believing the Stage to
be Rome, (or Denmark, for instance, as in this Play;) or Wilks to be Hamlet, or Booth to be
a Ghost, &c. These Things, I repeat it, appear difficult in Speculation; but we find, that
in Reality they do go down; and must necessarily do so, or else farewel all Dramatick Performances;
for unless the Distress and Woes appear to be real (which they never can, if we do not believe
we actually see the Things that are represented) it is impossible our Passions should be moved.
Let any one fairly judge, if these do not seem as great Impositions on our Reason, as the Change
of Place, or the Length of Time, which are found fault with in our Poet. I confess there are
Bounds set to this Delusion of our Imaginations, (as there are to every Thing else in this
World) for this Delusion is never perform'd in direct Defiance of our Reason; on the contrary,
our Reason helps on the Deceit; but she will concur no farther in this Delusion, than to a
certain Point which she will never pass, and that is, the Essential Difference between Plays
which deceive us by the Assistance of our Reason, and others which would impose upon our Imaginations
in Despight of our Reason. It is evident by the Success our Author's Pieces have always met
with for so long a Course of Time; it is, I say, certain by this general Approbation, that
his Pieces are of the former, not of the latter Sort. But to go to the Bottom of this Matter,
would lead me beyond what I propose.

