It often happens that the worst effects of wrong-doing are visited upon neither the criminal
nor upon those who have suffered in person or property by his crime. This fact is emphasized
by the recent suicide of a convict's wife, in one of our New England States, after having killed
her two children. This incident furnishes a dreadful commentary on the condition of those dependent
upon convicted criminals who are paying the penalty of their crimes. For the convict there
is abundant sympathy. As the St. Louis Globe Democrat well puts it, societies are organized
for the purpose of improving his mind, and cooking-clubs toil and perspire at Christmas and
Thanksgiving to the end that his body may not suffer; tract-distributors provide him with reading
matter, and sewing-circles warm him with flannel under-wear; doctors look after his health,
and legislators vie with each other in seeing that he is not overworked; but, if there is any
society organized for the purpose of helping the wife whom he has disgraced, and most likely
left penniless at home, its name has not yet been made public; if any sewing-circle has undertaken
to clothe his children, the fact has not been heralded to the world. Yet the heaviest part
of the punishment falls not on the convict but on his family, the members of which, by one
of those unjust society decisions from which there is no appeal, are stigmatized with disgrace
on account of an offence in which they had no part. This is grossly unjust, and those who are
benevolently inclined should take the matter in hand and see what can be done for the wives
and children of convicts.

       *       *       *       *       *

New England has no representative in the national legislature upon whose career she can look
with more of pride and satisfaction than that of Gen. Joseph R. Hawley, of Connecticut. A man
of sound learning, and many of the highest qualities of statesmanship; he is unpretentious
in manner, lives simply, is free from egotism, and full of the generous and manly qualities
which inspire confidence and compel friendliness. Few men, of this generation at least,--as
will be universally recognized a little later if not now,--have approached nearer to the popular
ideal of a representative American in public life. There could be no better evidence of the
manly independence which he brings to the discussion of measures of importance than his attitude
with reference to the bill intended to provide for the maintenance of an army of such size
and efficiency as to provide for all possible contingencies arising from foreign aggression
or internal troubles. In recognition of the fact that we have lawless elements in all of our
large cities always ready to avail themselves of any pretext for riot and incendiarism, he
urged the wisdom of providing such safeguards against these uprisings as would be afforded
by disciplined and efficient troops ready for instant service at any point. Some of the demagogues
in the Senate, hypocritically posing as friends of the working-men, endeavored to distort this
common-sense and patriotic view into an intention to use the army for the crushing of the working-men.
There have been few better speeches in the Senate in recent times than Senator Hawley's temperate
but cutting reply to these pseudo-friends of labor. It affords sufficient evidence, if any
were wanting, that the true friends of the working-men are those who have the courage of their
convictions, even when to utter them may afford opportunity for misrepresentation and abuse.

       *       *       *       *       *

The report of a recent attempt to wreck a train on the Maine Central Railroad is not so startling
as it would be were this species of crime of less frequent occurrence; but it is noteworthy
as being the sixth attempt of the kind at the same place within a few years. It is very fortunate
that so many of these dastardly efforts to bring innocent people to destruction prove futile.
In fact it is comparatively seldom that the boldest attempts at train-wrecking result in loss
of life. The awful possibilities, however, which lie within the hands of the train-wrecker
suggest most forcibly that this crime should be treated with unusual severity. The person who
would indiscriminately bring the passengers of a moving train to death must invariably, if
sane, be a criminal of the darkest dye. Murder of an individual, even when coming within the
first degree, is not often without some particular aggravation on the part of the victim. But
train-wrecking must always be the result of the purest malice,--of diabolism unalloyed. No
palliating circumstance ever suggests itself. The villain attempts to kill not one who has
involved himself in a quarrel with him, but peaceable, unsuspecting men, women, and children,
without distinction. And attempts of this kind have become so frequent, and the crime is at
once so cowardly, so insidious, and so dastardly, that no pains to apprehend the villain can
ever be too great, nor can any penalty that is allowed for any crime be too severe for this.
If capital punishment is to be on our statute books for anything, it should certainly be for
the train-wrecker. Let there be a law which shall with certainty bring to the hangman's noose
every person who makes even an attempt to destroy a moving train, and this fiendish crime may
be less frequent than it now is.

HISTORICAL RECORD.

March 19.--Under this date Mayor Chapman, chairman of the Committee on Invitation for the Centennial
Celebration at Portland, Maine, which is to occur on the 4th of July next, issued a circular
saying: "The Committee on Invitation of the Centennial Committee desire to have a record prepared
of the names of Sons and Daughters of Portland who are residents in other places, to whom invitations
to attend the Centennial Anniversary can be sent. For that purpose they request information
of such absentees, including those who were born here--those whose parents, or husbands, or
wives were natives of our city, and also those not natives who were former residents. Such
information can be communicated by letter or otherwise to John T. Hull, Clerk of Committee,
at Room No. 18, City Hall."

       *       *       *       *       *

March 21.--Fire at Newburyport destroyed two shoe factories and a three-tenement block; another
block was nearly destroyed, and other buildings were damaged. Total loss, $75,000.

       *       *       *       *       *

April 1.--Celebration at Lowell of the fiftieth anniversary of the incorporation of the city.
In the forenoon an historical address was given by C. C. Chase, formerly principal of the High
School; in the afternoon Mayor Abbott gave an address, followed by an oration by Hon. F. T.
Greenhalge.

       *       *       *       *       *

April 4.--Fire at Westboro', Mass., destroyed shoe factories and damaged other buildings, with
a total loss of $90,000.

       *       *       *       *       *

April 7.--The State election in Rhode Island resulted in the election for governor of George
Peabody Wetmore for a second term. The prohibitory constitutional amendment was adopted.

       *       *       *       *       *

April 7.--Quarterly meeting of the New England Historic Genealogical Society. Judge Cowley,
of Lowell, read a paper on "Judicial Falsification of History."

