The principal apartments are on the northern side of the palace, opening upon a portico of
Corinthian columns, running its entire length and which would not disgrace Palmyra itself.
At the eastern extremity, are the rooms common to the family; in the centre, a spacious hall,
in the adorning of which, by every form of art, I have exhausted my knowledge and taste in
such things; and at the western extremity, my library, where at this moment I sit, and where
I have gathered around me all in letters and art that I most esteem. This room I have decorated
for myself and Julia--not for others. Whatever has most endeared itself to our imaginations,
our minds, or our hearts, has here its home. The books that have most instructed or amused;
the statuary that most raises and delights us; the pictures on which we most love to dwell;
the antiquities that possess most curiosity or value, are here arranged, and in an order that
would satisfy, I believe, even your fastidious taste.

I will not weary you with any more minute account of my new dwelling, leaving that duty to
the readier pen of Julia. Yet I cannot relieve you till I have spoken of two of the statues
which occupy the most conspicuous niche in the library. You will expect me to name Socrates
and Plato, or Numa and Seneca--these are all there, but it is not of either of them that I
would speak. They are the venerable founders of the Jewish and Christian religions, MOSES and
CHRIST. These statues, of the purest marble, stand side by side, at one extremity of the apartment;
and immediately before them, and within the wondrous sphere of their influences stands the
table at which I write, and where I pursue my inquiries in philosophy and religion. You smile
at my enthusiasm, Fausta, and wonder when I shall return to the calm sobriety of my ancient
faith. In this wonder there are a thousand errors--but of these hereafter. I was to tell you
of these sculptures. Of the statue of Moses, I possess no historical account, and know not
what its claim may be to truth. I can only say, it is a figure truly grand, and almost terrific.
It is of a size larger than life, and expresses no sentiment so perfectly as authority--the
authority of a rigorous and austere ruler--both in the attitude of the body and the features
of the countenance. The head is slightly raised and drawn back, as if listening, awe-struck,
to a communication from the God who commissioned him, while his left hand supports a volume,
and his right grasps a stylus, with which, when the voice has ceased, to record the communicated
truth. Place in his hands the thunderbolt, and at his feet the eagle, and the same form would
serve for Jupiter the Thunderer, except only that to the countenance of the Jewish prophet
there has been imparted a rapt and inspired look, wholly beyond any that even Phidias could
have fixed upon the face of Jove. He who wrought this head must have believed in the sublimities
of the religion whose chief minister he has made so to speak them forth, in the countenance
and in the form; and yet who has ever heard of a Jew sculptor?

The statue of Christ is of a very different character; as different as the Christian faith
is from that of the Jewish, notwithstanding they are still by many confounded. I cannot pretend
to describe to you the holy beauty that as it were constitutes this perfect work of art. If
you ask what authority tradition has invested it with, I can only say that I do not know. All
I can affirm with certainty, is this, that it once stood in the palace of Alexander Severus,
in company with the images of other deified men and gods, whom he chiefly reverenced. When
that excellent prince had fallen under the blows of assassins, his successor and murderer,
Maximin, having little knowledge or taste for what was found in the palace of Alexander, those
treasures were sold, and the statue of Christ came into the hands of a distinguished and wealthy
Christian of that day, who, perishing in the persecution of Decius, his descendants became
impoverished, and were compelled to part with even this sacred relic of their former greatness.
From them I purchased it; and often are they to be seen, whenever for such an object they can
steal away from necessary cares, standing before it and renewing, as it would seem, their vows
of obedience, in the presence of the founder of their faith. The room is free to their approach,
whenever they are thus impelled.

The expression of this statue, I have said, is wholly different from that of the Hebrew. His
is one of authority and of sternness; this of gentleness and love. Christ is represented, like
the Moses, in a sitting posture, with a countenance, not like his raised to Heaven, but bent
with looks somewhat sad and yet full of benevolence, as if upon persons standing before him.
Fraternity, I think, is the idea you associate with it most readily. I should never suppose
him to be a judge or censor, or arbitrary master, but rather an elder brother; elder in the
sense of wiser, holier, purer; whose look is not one of reproach that others are not as himself,
but of pity and desire; and whose hand would rather be stretched forth to lift up the fallen
than to smite the offender. To complete this expression, and inspire the beholder with perfect
confidence, the left hand rests upon a little child, who stands with familiar reverence at
his knee, and looking up into his face seems to say, 'No evil can come to me here.'

Opposite this, and at the other extremity of the apartment, hangs a picture of Christ, representing
him in very exact accordance with the traditional accounts of his features and form, a description
of which exists, and is held by most authentic, in a letter of Publius Lentulus, a Roman of
the same period. Between this and the statue there is a close resemblance, or as close as we
usually see between two heads of Cæsar, or of Cicero. Marble, however, is the only material
that suits the character and office of Jesus of Nazareth. Color, and its minute effects, seem
in some sort to degrade the subject. I retain the picture because of its supposed truth.

Portia, as you will believe, is full of wonder and sorrow at these things. Soon after my library
had received its last additions, my mother came to see what she had already heard of so much.
As she entered the apartment, I was sitting in my accustomed seat, with Julia at my side, and
both of us gazing in admiration at the figures I have just described. We were both too much
engrossed to notice the entrance of Portia, our first warning of her presence being her hand
laid upon my head. We rose and placed her between us.

'My son,' said she, looking intently as she spoke upon the statues before us, 'what strange
looking figures are these? That upon my left might serve for Jupiter, but for the roll and
the stylus. And why place you beings of character so opposite, as these appear to have been,
side by side? This other upon my right--ah, how beautiful it is! What mildness in those eyes,
and what a divine repose over the form, which no event, not the downfall of a kingdom nor its
loss, would seem capable to disturb. Is it the peace loving Numa?'

'Not so,' said Julia; 'there stands Numa, leaning on the sacred shield, from the centre of
which beams the countenance of the divine Egeria.'

'Yes, I see it,' replied Portia; and rising from her seat, she stood gazing round the apartment,
examining its various appointments. When her eye had sought out the several objects, and dwelt
upon them a moment, she said, in tones somewhat reproachful, as much so as it is in her nature
to assume:

'Where, Lucius, are the gods of Rome? Do those who have, through so many ages, watched over
our country, and guarded our house, deserve no honor at your hands? Does not gratitude require
at least that their images should be here, so that, whether you yourself worship them or not,
their presence may inspire others with reverence? But alas for the times! Piety seems dead;
or, with the faith that inspires it, it lives, but in a few, who will soon disappear, and religion
with them. Whose forms are these, Lucius? concerning one I can now easily surmise--but the
other, this stern and terrific man, who is he?'

'That,' I replied, 'is Moses, the founder of Judaism.'

'Immortal gods!' exclaimed Portia, 'the statue of a Jew in the halls of the Pisos! Well may
it be that Rome approaches her decline, when her elder sons turn against her.'

'Nay, my mother, I am not a Jew.'

'I would thou wert, rather than be what I suppose thou art, a Christian. The Jew, Lucius, can
boast of antiquity, at least, in behalf of his religion. But the faith which you would profess
and extend, is but of yesterday. Would the gods ever leave mankind without religion? Is it
only to-day that they reveal the truth? Have they left us for these many ages to grope along
in error? Never, Lucius, can I believe it. It is enough for me that the religion of Rome is
old as Rome, to endear it to my heart, and commend it to my understanding. It is not for the
first time, to-day, that the gods have spoken.'

'But, my dear mother,' I rejoined, 'if age makes truth, there are older religions than this
of Rome. Judaism itself is older, by many centuries. But it is not because a religion is new
or old, that I would receive or reject it.' The only question is, does it satisfy my heart
and mind, and is it true? The faith which you engrafted upon my infant mind, fails to meet
the wants of my nature, and upon looking for its foundations, I find them not.'

'Is thy nature different from mine, Lucius? Surely, thou art my own child! It has satisfied
me and my nature. I ask for nothing else, or better.'

'There are some natures, mother, by the gods so furnished and filled with all good desires
and affections, that their religion is born with them and is in them. It matters little under
what outward form and administration of truth they dwell; no system could injure them--none
would greatly benefit. They are of the family of God, by birth, and are never disinherited.'

'Yes, Portia,' said Julia, 'natural and divine instincts make you what others can become only
through the powerful operation of some principle out of, and superior to, anything they find
within. For me, I know not what I should have been, without the help which Christianity has
afforded. I might have been virtuous, but I could not have been happy. You surely rejoice,
when the weak find that in any religion or philosophy which gives them strength. Look, Portia,
at that serene and benignant countenance, and can you believe that any truth ever came from
its lips, but such as must be most comforting and exalting to those who receive it?'

'It would seem so indeed, my child,' replied Portia, musingly, 'and I would not deprive any
of the comforts or strength which any principle may impart. But I cannot cease to think it
dangerous to the state, when the faith of the founders of Rome is abandoned by those who fill
its highest places. You who abound in leisure and learning, may satisfy yourselves with a new
philosophy; but what shall these nice refinements profit the common herd? How shall they see
them to be true, or comprehend them? The Romans have ever been a religious people; and although
under the empire the purity of ancient manners is lost, let it not be said that the Pisos were
among those who struck the last and hardest blows at the still stout root of the tree that
bore them.'

'Nothing can be more plain or intelligible,' I replied, 'than the principles of the Christian
religion; and wherever it has been preached with simplicity and power, even the common people
have readily and gratefully adopted it. I certainly cannot but desire that it may prevail.
If any thing is to do it, I believe this is the power that is to restore, and in a still nobler
form, the ancient manners of which you speak. It is from Christianity that in my heart I believe
the youthful blood is to come, that being poured into the veins of this dying state, shall
reproduce the very vigor and freshness of its early age. Rome, my mother, is now but a lifeless
trunk--a dead and loathsome corpse--a new and warmer current must be infused, or it will soon
crumble into dust.'

'I grieve, Lucius, to see you lost to the good cause of your country, and to the altars of
her gods; for who can love his country, and deny the gods who made and preserve it? But then
who am I to condemn? When I see the gods to hurl thunderbolts upon those who flout them, it
will be time enough for us mortals to assume the robes of judgment. I will hope that farther
thought will reclaim you from your truant wanderings.'

Do not imagine, Fausta, that conversations like this have the least effect to chill the warm
affections of Portia towards us both. Nature has placed within her bosom a central heat, that
not only preserves her own warmth, but diffuses itself upon all who approach her, and changes
their affections into a likeness of her own. We speak of our differing faiths, but love none
the less. When she had paused a moment after uttering the last words, she again turned her
eye upon the statue of Christ, and, captivated by its wondrous power, she dwelt upon it in
a manner that showed her sensibilities to be greatly moved. At length she suddenly started, saying:

'If truth and beauty were the same thing, one need but to look upon this and be a believer.
But as in the human form and face, beauty is often but a lie, covering over a worse deformity
than any that ever disfigures the body, so it may be here. I cannot but admire and love the
beauty; it will be wise, I suppose, not to look farther, lest the dream be dissolved.'

'Be not afraid of that, dearest mother; I can warrant you against disappointment. If in that
marble you have the form of the outward beauty, here, in this roll, you will find the inward
moral beauty of which it is the shrine.'

'Nay, nay, Lucius, I look no farther or deeper. I have seen too much already.'

With these words, she arose, and we accompanied her to the portico, where we walked, and sat,
and talked of you, and Calpurnius, and Gracchus.

Thus you perceive I have told you first of what chiefly interests myself: now let me turn to
what at this moment more than everything else fills all heads in Rome--and that is Livia. She
is the object of universal attention, the centre of all honor. It is indescribable, the sensation
her beauty, and now added to that, her magnificence, have made and still make in Rome. Her
imperial bearing would satisfy even you; and the splendor of her state exceeds all that has
been known before. This you may be surprised to hear, knowing what the principles of Aurelian
have been in such things; how strict he has been himself in a more than republican simplicity,
and how severe upon the extravagances and luxuries of others, in the laws he has enacted. You
must remember his prohibition of the use of cloth of gold and of silk, among other things--foolish
laws to be suddenly promulged among so vain and corrupt a population as this of Rome. They
have been the ridicule and scorn of rich and poor alike; of the rich, because they are so easily
violated in private, or evaded by the substitution of one article for another; of the poor,
because, being slaves in spirit, they take a slave's pride in the trappings and state of their
masters; they love not only to feel but to see their superiority. But since the eastern expedition,
the reduction of Palmyra, and the introduction from abroad of the vast flood of foreign luxuries
which has inundated Rome and Italy itself the principles and the habits of the Emperor have
undergone a mighty revolution. Now, the richness and costliness of his dress, the splendor
of his equipage, the gorgeousness of his furniture, cannot be made to come up to the height
of his extravagant desires. The silk which he once denied to the former Empress for a dress,
now, variously embroidered, and of every dye, either hangs in ample folds upon the walls, or
canopies the royal bed, or lends its beauty to the cushioned seats which everywhere, in every
form of luxurious ease, invite to repose. Gold, too, once prohibited, but now wrought into
every kind of cloth, or solid in shape of dish, or vase, or cup, or spread in sheets over the
very walls and ceilings of the palace, has rendered the traditions of Nero's house of gold
no longer fabulous. The customs of the eastern monarchs have also elevated or perverted the
ambition of Aurelian, and one after another are taking place of former usages. He is every
day more difficult of access, and surrounds himself, his palaces, and apartments, by guards
and officers of state. In all this, as you will readily believe, Livia is his willing companion,
or rather, I should perhaps say, his prompting and ruling genius. As without the world at her
feet, it would be impossible for her insane pride to be fully satisfied, so in all that is
now done, the Emperor still lags behind her will. But beautifully, it can be denied by none,
does she become her greatness, and gives more lustre than she receives, to all around her.
Gold is doubly gold in her presence; and even the diamond sparkles with a new brilliancy on
her brow or sandal.

Livia is, of all women I have ever seen or known; made for a Roman empress. I used to think
so when in Palmyra, and I saw her, so often as I did, assuming the port and air of imaginary
sovereignty. And now that I behold her filling the very place for which by nature she is most
perfectly fitted, I cannot but confess that she surpasses all I had imagined, in the genius
she displays for her great sphere, both as wife of Aurelian, and sovereign of Rome. Her intellect
shows itself stronger than I had believed it to be, and secures for her the homage of a class
who could not be subdued by her magnificence, extraordinary as it is. They are captivated by
the brilliancy of her wit, set off by her unequalled beauty, and, for a woman, by her rare
attainments, and hover around her as some superior being. Then for the mass of our rich and
noble, her ostentatious state and imperial presence are all that they can appreciate, all they
ask for, and more than enough to enslave them, not only to her reasonable will, but to all
her most tyrannical and whimsical caprices. She understands already perfectly the people she
is among; and through her quick sagacity, has already risen to a power greater than woman ever
before held in Rome.

We see her often--often as ever--and when we see her, enjoy her as well. For with all her ambition
of petty rule and imposing state, she possesses and retains a goodness of heart, that endears
her to all, in spite of her follies. Julia is still her beloved Julia, and I her good friend
Lucius; but it is to Zenobia that she attaches herself most closely; and from her she draws
most largely of the kind of inspiration which she covets. It is to her, too, I believe, that
we may trace much of the admirable wisdom--for such it must be allowed to be--with which Livia
adorns the throne of the world.

Her residence, when Aurelian is absent from the city, is near us in the palace upon the Palatine;
but when he is here, it is more remote, in the enchanted gardens of Sallust. This spot, first
ennobled by the presence of the great historian, to whose hand and eye of taste the chief beauties
of the scene are to be traced, then afterward selected by Vespasian as an imperial villa, is
now lately become the chosen retreat of Aurelian. It has indeed lost a part of its charms since
it has been embraced, by the extension of the new walls, within the limits of the city; but
enough remain to justify abundantly the preference of a line of emperors. It is there that
we see Livia most as we have been used to do, and where are forcibly brought to our minds the
hours passed by us so instructively in the gardens of Zenobia. Often Aurelian is of our company,
and throws the light of his strong intellect upon whatever subject it is we discuss. He cannot,
however, on such occasions, thoroughly tame to the tone of gentle society, his imperious and
almost rude nature. The peasant of Pannonia will sometimes break through, and usurp the place
of emperor; but it is only for a moment; for it is pleasing to note how the presence of Livia
quickly restores him to himself; when, with more grace than one would look for, he acknowledges
his fault, ascribing it sportively to the fogs of the German marshes. It amuses us to observe
the power which the polished manners and courtly ways of Livia exercise over Aurelian, whose
ambition seems now as violently bent upon subduing the world by the displays of taste, grace,
and magnificence, as it once was to do it--and is still indeed--by force of arms. Having astonished
mankind in one way, he would astonish them again in quite another; and to this later task his
whole nature is consecrated with as entire a devotion as ever it was to the other. Livia is
in all these things his model and guide; and never did soldier learn to catch, from the least
motion or sign of the general, his will, than does he, to the same end, study the countenance
and the voice of the Empress. Yet is there, as you will believe knowing the character of Aurelian
as well as you do, nothing mean nor servile in this. He is ever himself, and beneath this transparent
surface, artificially assumed, you behold, feature for feature, the lineaments of the fierce
soldier glaring forth in all their native wildness and ferocity. Yet we are happy that there
exists any charm potent enough to calm, but for hours or days, a nature so stern and cruel
as to cause perpetual fears for the violences in which at any moment it may break out. The
late slaughter in the very streets of Rome, when the Coelian ran with the blood of fifteen
thousand Romans, butchered within sight of their own homes, with the succeeding executions,
naturally fill us with apprehensions for the future. We call him generous, and magnanimous,
and so he is, compared with former tyrants who have polluted the throne--Tiberius, Commodus,
or Maximin; but what title has he to that praise, when tried by the standard which our own
reason supplies of those great virtues? I confess it was not always so. His severity was formerly
ever on the side of justice; it was indignation at crime or baseness which sometimes brought
upon him the charge of cruelty--never the wanton infliction of suffering and death. But it
certainly is not so now. A slight cause now rouses his sleeping passions to a sudden fury,
often fatal to the first object that comes in his way. But enough of this.

Do not forget to tell me again of the Old Hermit of the mountains, and that you have visited
him--if indeed he be yet among the living.

Even with your lively imagination, Fausta, you can hardly form an idea of the sensation which
my open assertion of Christian principles and assumption of the Christian name has made in
Rome. I intended when I sat down to speak only of this, but see how I have been led away! My
letters will be for the most part confined, I fear, to the subjects which engross both myself
and Julia most--such as relate to the condition and prospects of the new religion, and to the
part which we take in the revolution which is going on. Not that I shall be speechless upon
other and inferior topics, but that upon this of Christianity I shall be garrulous and overflowing.
I believe that in doing this, I shall consult your preferences as well as my own. I know you
to be desirous of principles better than any which as yet you have been able to discover, and
that you will gladly learn whatever I may have it in my power to teach you from this quarter.
But all the teaching I shall attempt will be to narrate events as they occur, and state facts
as they arise, and leave them to make what impression they may.

When I just spoke of the sensation which my adoption of the Christian system had caused in
Rome, I did not mean to convey any idea like this, that it has been rare for the intelligent
and cultivated to attach themselves to this despised religion. On the contrary, it would be
true were I to say, that they who accept Christianity, are distinguished for their intelligence;
that estimated as a class, they rank far above the lowest. It is not the dregs of a people
who become reformers of philosophy or religion; who grow dissatisfied with ancient opinions
upon exalted subjects, and search about for better, and adopt them. The processes involved
in this change, in their very nature, require intelligence, and imply a character of more than
common elevation. It is neither the lowest nor the highest who commence, and at first carry
on, a work like this; but those who fill the intermediate spaces. The lowest are dead as brute
matter to such interests; the highest--the rich, the fashionable, the noble, from opposite
causes just as dead; or if they are alive at all, it is with the rage of denunciation and opposition.
They are supporters of the decent usages sanctioned by antiquity, and consecrated by the veneration
of a long line of the great and noble. Whether they themselves believe in the system which
they uphold or not, they are equally tenacious of it. They would preserve and perpetuate it,
because it has satisfied, at any rate bound and overawed, the multitude for ages: and the experiment
of alteration or substitution is too dangerous to be tried. Most indeed reason not, nor philosophize
at all, in the matter. The instinct that makes them Romans in their worship of the power and
greatness of Rome, and attachment to her civil forms, makes them Romans in their religion,
and will summon them, if need be, to die for the one and the other.

Religion and philosophy have accordingly nothing to hope from this quarter. It is those whom
we may term the substantial middle classes, who, being least hindered by prejudices and pride
of order, on the one hand, and incapacitated by ignorance on the other, have ever been the
earliest and best friends of progress in any science. Here you find the retired scholar, the
thoughtful and independent farmer, the skilful mechanic, the enlightened merchant, the curious
traveller, the inquisitive philosopher--all fitted, beyond those of either extreme, for exercising
a sound judgment upon such questions, and all more interested in them. It is out of these that
Christianity has made its converts. They are accordingly worthy of universal respect. I have
examined with diligence, and can say that there live not in Rome a purer and more noble company
than the Christians. When I say however that it is out of these whom I have just specified,
that Christianity has made its converts, I do not mean to say out of them exclusively. Some
have joined them in the present age, as well as in every age past, from the most elevated in
rank and power. If in Nero's palace, and among his chief ministers, there were Christians,
if Domitilla, Domitian's niece, was a Christian, if the emperor Philip was a Christian, so
now a few of the same rank may be counted, who openly, and more who secretly, profess this
religion. But they are very few. So that you will not wonder that when the head of the ancient
and honorable house of the Pisos, the friend of Aurelian, and allied to the royal family of
Palmyra, declared himself to be of this persuasion, no little commotion was observable in Rome--not
so much among the Christians as among the patricians, among the nobility, in the court and
palace of Aurelian. The love of many has grown cold, and the outward tokens of respect are
withheld. Brows darkened by the malignant passions of the bigot are bent upon me as I pass
along the streets, and inquiries, full of scornful irony, are made after the welfare of my
new friends. The Emperor changes not his carriage toward me, nor, I believe, his feelings.
I think he is too tolerant of opinion, too much a man of the world, to desire to curb and restrain
the liberty of his friends in the quarter of philosophy and religion. I know indeed on the
other hand, that he is religious in his way, to the extreme of superstition, but I have observed
no tokens as yet of any purpose or wish to interfere with the belief or worship of others.
He seems like one who, if he may indulge his own feelings in his own way, is not unwilling
to concede to others the same freedom.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I was writing these last sentences, I became conscious of a voice muttering in low tones,
as if discoursing with itself, and upon no very agreeable theme. I heeded it not at first,
but wrote on. At length it ran thus, and I was compelled to give ear:

Patience, patience--greatest of virtues, yet hardest of practice! To wait indeed for a kingdom
were something, though it were upon a bed of thorns; to suffer for the honor of truth, were
more; more in itself, and more in its rewards. But patience, when a fly stings, or a fool speaks,
or worse, when time is wasted and lost, is--the virtue in this case mayhap is greater after
all--but it is harder, I say, of practice--that is what I say--yet, for that very reason, greater!
By Hercules! I believe it is so. So that while I wait here, my virtue of patience is greater
than that of these accursed Jews. Patience then, I say, patience!'

'What in the name of all antiquity,' I exclaimed, turning round as the voice ceased, 'is this
flood of philosophy for? Wherein have I offended?'

'Offended!' cried the other; 'Nay, noble master, not offended. According to my conclusion,
I owe thee thanks; for while I have stood waiting to catch thy eye and ear, my virtue has shot
up like a wild vine. The soul has grown. I ought therefore rather to crave forgiveness of thee,
for breaking up a study which was so profound, and doubtless so agreeable too.'

'Agreeable you will certainly grant it, when I tell you I was writing to your ancient friend
and pupil, the daughter of Gracchus.'

'Ah, the blessings of all the gods upon her. My dreams are still of her. I loved her, Piso,
as I never loved beside, either form, shadow, or substance. I used to think that I loved her
as a parent loves his child--a brother his sister; but it was more than that. Aristotle is
not so dear to me as she. Bear witness these tears! I would now, bent as I am, travel the Syrian
deserts to see her; especially if I might hear from her mouth a chapter of the great philosopher.
Never did Greek, always music, seem so like somewhat more divinely harmonious than anything
of earth, as when it came through her lips. Yet, by Hercules! she played me many a mad prank!
'Twould have been better for her and for letters, had I chastised her more, and loved her less.
Condescend, noble Piso, to name me to her, and entreat her not to fall away from her Greek.
That will be a consolation under all losses, and all sorrows.'

'I will not fail to do so. And now in what is my opinion wanted?'

'It is simply in the matter of these volumes, where thou wilt have them bestowed. The cases
here, by their superior adorning, seem designed for the great master of all, and his disciples;
and it is here I would fain order them. Would it so please thee?'

'No, Solon, not here. That is designed for a very different Master and his disciples.'

Solon looked at me as if unwilling to credit his ears, hoping that something would be added
more honorable to the affronted philosopher and myself. But nothing coming, he said:

'I penetrate--I apprehend. This, the very centre and post of honor, thou reservest for the
atheistical Jews. The gods help us! I doubt I should straight resign my office. Well, well;
let us hope that the increase of years will bring an increase of wisdom. We cannot look for
fruit on a sapling. Youth seeks novelty. But the gods be thanked! Youth lasts not long, but
is a fault daily corrected; else the world were at a bad pass. Rome is not fallen, nor the
fame of the Stagyrite hurt for this. But 'tis grievous to behold!'

So murmuring, as he retreated to the farther part of the library, with his bundle of rolls
under his arm, he again busied himself in the labors of his office.

I see, Fausta, the delight that sparkles in your eye and breaks over your countenance, as you
learn that Solon, the incomparable Solon, is one of my household. No one whom I could think
of, appeared so well suited to my wants as librarian, as Solon, and I can by no means convey
to you an idea of the satisfaction with which he hailed my offer; and abandoning the rod and
the brass tablets, betook himself to a labor which would yield him so much more leisure for
the perusal of his favorite authors, and the pursuit of his favorite studies. He is already
deep in the question, 'whether the walls of Troy were accommodated with thirty-three or thirty-nine
gates,' and also in this, 'what was the method of construction adopted in the case of the wooden
horse, and what was its capacity?' Of his progress in these matters, I will duly inform you.

But I weary your patience. Farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Piso, alluding in this letter to the slaughter on the Coelian Hill, which happened not long
before it was written, I will add here that whatever color it may have pleased Aurelian to
give to that affair--as if it were occasioned by a dishonest debasement of the coin by the
directors of the mint--there is now no doubt, on the part of any who are familiar with the
history of that period, that the difficulty originated in a much deeper and more formidable
cause, well known to Aurelian himself, but not spoken of by him, in alluding to the event.
It is certain, then, that the civil war which then befel, for such it was, was in truth the
breaking out of a conspiracy on the part of the nobles to displace Aurelian--'a German peasant,'
as they scornfully designated him--and set one of their own order upon the throne. They had
already bought over the chief manager of the public mint--a slave and favorite of Aurelian--and
had engaged him in creating, to serve the purposes which they had in view, an immense issue
of spurious coin. This they had used too liberally, in effecting some of the preliminary objects
of their movement. It was suspected, tried, proved to be false, and traced to its authors.
Before they were fully prepared, the conspirators were obliged to take to their arms, as the
only way in which to save themselves from the executioner. The contest was one of the bloodiest
ever known within the walls of the city. It was Aurelian, with a few legions of his army, and
the people--always of his part--against the wealth and the power of the nobility, and their
paid adherents. In one day, and in one battle, as it may be termed, fifteen thousand soldiers
and citizens were slain in the streets of the capital. Truly does Piso say, the streets of
the Coelian ran blood. I happily was within the walls of the queen's palace at Tibur; but well
do I remember the horror of the time--especially the days succeeding the battle, when the vengeance
of the enraged conqueror fell upon the noblest families of Rome, and the axe of the executioner
was blunted and broken with the savage work which it did.

No one has written of Aurelian and his reign, who has not applauded him for the defence which
he made of his throne and crown, when traitorously assailed within the very walls of the capital;
but all unite also in condemning that fierce spirit of revenge, which, after the contest was
over and his power secure, by confiscation, banishment, torture and death, involved in ruin
so many whom a different treatment would have converted into friends. But Aurelian was by nature
a tyrant; it was accident whenever he was otherwise. If affairs moved on smoothly, he was the
just or magnanimous prince; if disturbed and perplexed, and his will crossed, he was the imperious
and vindictive tyrant.

LETTER II.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

You need not, dear Fausta, concern yourself on our behalf. I cannot think that your apprehensions
will be realized. Rome never was more calm than now, nor apparently has there ever a better
temper possessed its people. The number of those who are sufficiently enlightened to know that
the mind ought not to be in bondage to man, but be held answerable to God alone for its thoughts
and opinions, is becoming too great for the violences and cruelties of former ages to be again
put in practice against us. And Aurelian, although stern in his nature, and superstitious beyond
others, will not, I am persuaded, lend himself either to priests or people to annoy us. If
no principle of humanity prevented him, nor generosity of sentiment, he would be restrained,
I think, by his attachments to so many who bear the hated name.

