Separately Excited Dynamo. A dynamo-electric machine whose field magnet is excited from an
outside source, which may be another dynamo or a battery. Alternating current dynamos are often
of this description.

Separate Touch. In magnetism a method of inducing magnetism in a steel bar. The opposite poles
of two magnets are applied at the center of the bar to be magnetized, but without touching
each other, and are drawn apart to its ends. They are returned through the air and the process
is repeated a number of times and on both sides of the bar if necessary.

Separation of Electricities. Under the double fluid theory of electricity the action of electrification
in accumulating positive electricity in one conductor and negative on the other of the excited
surfaces of two conductors.

Separator. India rubber bands or other forms used in batteries to keep the plates from touching
in the cell; especially applied to secondary batteries, where the plates are so near together
as to require separators to prevent short circuiting.

Fig. 301. SERIES CONNECTION.

Series. (a) Arranged in succession as opposed to parallel. Thus if a set of battery jars are
arranged with the zinc of one connected to the carbon of the next one for the entire number,
it is said to be arranged in series. When incandescent lamps are arranged in succession so
that the current goes through one after the other they are arranged in series.

The opposite of parallel, q. v., or multiple arc, q. v.; it may be used as a noun or as an
adjective.

(b) See Electro-Chemical Series;

(c) Thermo-Electric Series

(d) Electrostatic Series;

(e) Electro-motive Series.

Synonym--Cascade Connection (but little used.)

480   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Series-multiple. Arrangement of electric apparatus, in which the parts are grouped in sets
in parallel and these sets are connected in series. It is used as a noun, as "arranged in series-multiple,"
or as an adjective, as "a series-multiple circuit or system."

Fig. 302. SERIES-MULTIPLE CONNECTION.

Service Conductors. In electric distribution the equivalents of service pipes in the distribution
of gas; wires leading from the street mains to the houses, where current is to be supplied.

Serving. The wrapping or winding of a cable composed of small size wire, laid closely and smoothly
with a tool called a serving mallet, or serving block, or by machinery. It serves to protect
the cable from wear.

Shackle. In telegraph lines a swinging insulator bracket for use where wires make an angle
with the pole. A journal box is attached to the pole, like half of a gate hinge. To this a
short iron arm is pivoted so as to be free to swing through a considerable angle. At its end
an insulator is carried to which the wire is attached. The shackle swings into line with the
wire, or takes a position for two wires corresponding to the resultant of their directions of pull.

Fig. 303. DOUBLE SHACKLE

Shadow. Electric. A term applied to a phenomenon of high vacua. If an electric discharge is
maintained in a Crookes' tube the glass opposite the negative electrode tends to phosphoresce.
A plate of aluminum, used also as the positive electrode, protects the glass directly behind
it so as to produce the effect of a shadow.

Synonym--Molecular Shadow.

481   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Sheath for Magnet Coils. In 1867 C. E. Varley proposed the use of a copper sheath surrounding
a magnet core to diminish self-induction. It has since been used by Brush and others. Sometimes
metallic foil is laid between the successive coils of wire.

Synonym--Mutual Induction Protector.

Sheath for Transformers. A protective sheath of copper, interposed between the primary and
secondary circuits of an alternating current transformer. It is connected to the earth. If
the primary coil loses its insulation before it can leak to the secondary it is grounded. This
protects the secondary circuit from the high electro-motive force of the primary circuit.

Shellac. A resin; produced as an exudation upon the branches of certain Asiatic trees, such
as the banyan (Ficus religiosa). It is due to punctures in the bark of the trees in question,
which punctures are made by the female of the insect coccus ficus or c. lacca.

Commercial shellac contains about 90 per cent. of resinous material, the rest is made up of
wax, gluten, coloring matter and other substances.

Shellac is soluble in alcohol, and in aqueous solutions of ammonium chloride, of borax and
in strong ammonia solution. Long standing is required in the case of the last named solvent.
Dilute hydrochloric and acetic acids dissolve it readily; nitric acid slowly; strong sulphuric
acid is without action on it. Alkalies dissolve it.

In electric work it is used as an insulator and dielectric. Its alcoholic solution is used
to varnish glass plates of influence machines, for the coils of induction coils and similar
purposes.

Resistance in ohms per centimeter cube at 28° C. (82.4 F.)--(Ayrton), 9.0E15

Specific Inductive Capacity (Wüllner),   2.95 to 3.73

The same substance in less pure forms occurs in commerce, as stick lac, lump lac, seed lac,
button lac.

Shellac Varnish. Solution of shellac in alcohol; methylic alcohol (wood alcohol or wood naphtha)
is often used as solvent.

Dr. Muirhead recommends button lac, dissolved in absolute alcohol, and the top layers decanted.
For highest insulation he dissolves the lac in ordinary alcohol, precipitates by dropping into
water, collects the precipitate, dries and dissolves in absolute alcohol.

Shielded. adj. An electric measuring instrument of the galvanometer type is shielded when it
is so constructed that its indications are not seriously affected by the presence of neighboring
magnets or by fields of force. Shielding can be effected by using a very strong permanent magnet
to produce a field within which the magnetic needle moves and which reacts upon it, or by enclosing
the instrument in a thick iron box.

482   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

S. H. M. Symbol or abbreviation for "simple harmonic motion."

Shock, Break. A term in electro-therapeutics; the shock received when an electric circuit,
including the patient in series, is broken or opened.

Synonym--Opening Shock.

Shock, Electric. The effect upon the animal system of the discharge through it of electricity
with high potential difference. Pain, nervous shock, violent muscular contortions accompany
it. Of currents, an alternating current is reputed worse than a direct current; intermediate
is the pulsatory current.

The voltage is the main element of shock, amperage has also some direct influence.

Shock, Static. A term in electro-therapeutics. The application of static discharges from small
condensers or Leyden jars to a patient who is insulated from the ground with one electrode
applied to the conducting surface on which he rests, while the other, a spherical electrode,
is brought near the body so as to produce a disruptive or spark discharge.

Short Circuit. A connection between two parts of a circuit, which connection is of low resistance
compared to the intercepted portion. The term is used also as a verb, as "to short circuit a lamp."

Fig. 304. DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING SHORT CIRCUIT WORKING.

Short Circuit Working. A method of working intermittently an electro-magnet so as to avoid
sparking. It consists in providing a short circuit in parallel with the magnetic coils. This
short circuit is of very low resistance. To throw the magnet into action the short circuit
is opened; to throw it out of action the short circuit is closed. The shunt or short circuit
must be of negligibly small resistance and inductance.

483   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Shovel Electrodes. Large plate electrodes used in a medical bipolar bath. (See Bath, Bipolar.)

Shunt. In a current circuit a connection in parallel with a portion of the circuit. Thus in
a dynamo a special winding for the field may have its ends connected to the bushes, from which
the regular external circuit also starts. The field is then wound in shunt with the armature.
In the case of a galvanometer a resistance coil may be put in parallel with it to prevent too
much current going through the galvanometer; this connection is a shunt.

The word is used as a noun, as "a shunt," or "a connection or apparatus in shunt with another,"
and as an adjective, as "a shunt connection," or as a verb, as "to shunt a battery."

Shunt Box. A resistance box designed for use as a galvanometer shunt. (See Shunt, Galvanometer.)
The box contains a series of resistance coils which can be plugged in or out as required.

Shunt, Electro-magnetic. In telegraphy a shunt for the receiving relay consisting of the coils
of an electro-magnet. It is placed in parallel with the relay. Its poles are permanently connected
by an armature. Thus it has high self-induction.

On opening and closing the circuit by the sending key, extra currents are produced in the shunt.
The connections are so arranged that on making the circuit the extra current goes through the
relay in the same direction as the principal current, while on breaking the circuit the induced
current goes in the opposite direction.

Thus the extra currents accelerate the production and also the cessation of signalling currents,
tending to facilitate the operations of sending despatches.

Shunt, Galvanometer. A resistance placed in parallel with a galvanometer, so as to short circuit
its coils and prevent enough current passing through it to injure it. By knowing the resistance
of the shunt and of the galvanometer coils, the proportion of current affecting the galvanometer
is known. This gives the requisite factor for calculation. (See Multiplying Power of Shunt.)

Shunt Ratio. The coefficient expressing the ratio existing between the current in a shunt and
in the apparatus or conductor in parallel with it. (See Multiplying Power of/ Shunt.)

Shunt Winding. A dynamo or motor is shunt-wound when the field magnet winding is in shunt or
in parallel with the winding of the armature.

Shuttle Current. A current alternating in direction; an alternating current.

484   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Side-Flash. A bright flashing lateral discharge from a conductor conveying a current due to
a static discharge.

Sighted Position. In an absolute electrometer (see Electrometer, Absolute) the position of
the balanced arm carrying the movable disc or plate, when the disc and guard plate are in one
plane. The cross-hair on the lever-end is then seen midway between two stops, or some other
equivalent position is reached which is discerned by sighting through a magnifying glass or
telescope.

Silver.
A metal; one of the elements; symbol Ag.; atomic weight, 108; valency, 1;
equivalent, 108; specific gravity, 10.5. It is a conductor of electricity.    9.826    "
  (c) 1 meter long, weighing 1 gram,      .1527  "     .1662   "
  (d) 1 meter long, 1 millimeter thick,   .01916 "     .02080  "

Silver Bath. A solution of a salt of silver for deposition in the electroplating process.

The following is a typical formula:
  Water,              10.0   parts by weight.
  Potassium Cyanide,   5       "        "
  Metallic Silver,     2.5     "        "

The silver is first dissolved as nitrate and converted into cyanide and
added in that form, or for 2.5 parts metallic silver we may read:
  Silver cyanide,   3   parts by weight.

While many other formulas have been published the above is representative of the majority.
Other solvents for the silver than potassium cyanide have been suggested, such as sodium hyposulphite,
but the cyanide solution remains the standard.

Silver Stripping Bath. Various baths are used to remove silver from old electroplated articles.
Their composition depends upon the base on which the metal is deposited. Silvered iron articles
are placed as anodes in a solution of 1 part potassium cyanide in 20 parts of water. As kathode
a silver anode or a copper one lightly oiled may be used. From the latter the silver easily
rubs off. For copper articles a mixture of fuming sulphuric acid and nitric acid (40º Beaumé)
may be used. The presence of any water in this mixture will bring about the solution of the
copper. Or fuming sulphuric acid may be heated to between 300º and 400º F., some pinches of
dry pulverized potassium nitrate may be thrown in and the articles at once dipped. These methods
effect the solution of the silver, leaving the copper unattacked.

485   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Simple Substitution. A method of obtaining a resistance equal to that of a standard. The standard
is put in circuit with a galvanometer and the deflection is noted. For the standard another
wire is substituted and its length altered until the same deflection is produced. The two resistances
are then evidently identical. The standard can be again substituted to confirm the result.

Sine Curve. If we imagine a point moved back and forth synchronously with a pendulum, and if
such point made a mark upon paper, it would trace the same line over and over again. If now
the paper were drawn steadily along at right angles to the line of motion of the point, then
the point would trace upon it a line like the profile of a wave. Such line is a sine curve.
It derives its name from the following construction. Let a straight line be drawn, and laid
off in fractions, such as degrees, of the perimeter of a circle of given diameter. Then on
each division of the line let a perpendicular be erected equal in height to the sine of the
angle of the circle corresponding to that division; then if the extremities of such lines be
united by a curve such curve will be a sine curve.

In such a curve the abscissas are proportional to the times, while the ordinates are proportional
to the sines of angles, which angles are themselves proportional to the times. The ordinates
pass through positive and negative values alternately, while the abscissas are always positive.

Any number of sine curves can be constructed by varying the diameter of the original circle,
or by giving to the abscissas a value which is a multiple of the true length of the divisions
of circle. If the pendulum method of construction were used this would be attained by giving
a greater or less velocity to the paper as drawn under the pendulum.

A species of equation for the curve is given as follows: y = sin( x )

In this x really indicates the arc whose length is x, and reference should be made to the value
of the radius of the circle from which the curve is described. It will also be noticed that
the equation only covers the case in which the true divisions of the circle are laid off on
the line. If a multiple of such divisions are used, say n times, or 1-n times, then the equation
should read y = n sin( x ) or y = sin( x ) / n

Synonyms--Curve of Sines--Sinusoidal Curve--Harmonic Curve.

486   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Sine Law. The force acting on a body is directly proportional to the sine of the angle of deflection
when--

I. The controlling force is constant in magnitude and direction; and

II. The deflecting force, although variable in its direction in space, is fixed in direction
relatively to the deflecting body. The fluid repels itself but attracts matter; an excess creates
positive, a deficiency, negative electrification; friction, contact action or other generating
cause altering the distribution creates potential difference or electrification. The assumed
direction (see Direction) of the current and of lines of force are based on the single fluid
theory. Like the double fluid theory, q. v., it is merely a convenience and not the expression
of a truth. (See Fluid, Electric, and Double Fluid Theory.)

Synonym--Franklin's Theory.

Single Fluid Voltaic Cell. A galvanic couple using only a single fluid, such as the Smee or
Volta cell.

Simple Harmonic Motion. Motion of a point or body back and forth along a line; the motion of
a pendulum, as regards its successive swings back and forth, is an example of harmonic motion.

Sinistrotorsal. adj. The reverse of dextrotorsal, q. v. A helix with left-handed winding, the
reverse of an ordinary screw, such as a wood-screw or corkscrew.

Skin Effect. A current of very brief duration does not penetrate the mass of a conductor. Alternating
currents for this reason are mainly conducted by the outer layers of a conductor. The above
is sometimes called the skin effect.

Sled. A contact for electric cars of the conduit system. It is identical with the plow, q.v.,
but is drawn after the cars instead of being pushed along with them.

Slide Meter Bridge. A name for a Slide Bridge one meter long. There are also slide half meter
and slide quarter meter bridges and others. (See Meter Bridge.)

S. N. Code. Abbreviation for single needle code, the telegraphic alphabet used with the single
needle system.

Soaking-in-and-out. A term for the phenomena of the residual electrostatic charge; the gradual
acquirement or loss by a condenser of a portion of its electrostatic charge.

487   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Soldering, Electric. This secures them as if by soldering. It is used in connecting the carbon
filament of an incandescent lamp with the platinum wires that pass through the glass. Copper
is the metal usually deposited.

Solenoid. The ideal solenoid is a system of circular currents of uniform direction, equal,
parallel, of equal diameter of circle, and with their centers lying on the same straight line,
which line is perpendicular to their planes.

Fig. 305. EXPERIMENTAL SOLENOID.

The simple solenoid as constructed of wire, is a helical coil, of uniform diameter, so as to
represent a cylinder. After completing the coil one end of the wire is bent back and carried
through the centre of the coil, bringing thus both ends out at the same end. The object of
doing this is to cause this straight return member to neutralize the longitudinal component
of the helical turns. This it does approximately so as to cause the solenoid for its practical
action to correspond with the ideal solenoid.

Instead of carrying one end of the wire through the centre of the coil as just described, both
ends may be bent back and brought together at the centre.

A solenoid should always have this neutralization of the longitudinal component of the helices
provided for; otherwise it is not a true solenoid.

Solenoids are used in experiments to represent magnets and to study and illustrate their laws.
When a current goes through them they acquire polarity, attract iron, develop lines of force
and act in general like magnets.

A solenoid is also defined as a coil of insulated wire whose length is not small as compared
with its diameter.

488   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Sonometer, Hughes'. A sound measurer; a modification of a portion of Hughes' induction balance,
used for testing the delicacy of the ear or for determining the relative intensity of sounds.
(See Hughes' Induction Balance.) It is the arrangement of three coils, two mounted one at each
of the ends of a graduated bar, and the third one between them and free to slide back and forth
thereon.

Sonorescence. The property of producing sounds under the influence of momentary light radiations
rapidly succeeding each other. It is the property utilized in the photophone, q. v.

Fig. 306. MORSE SOUNDER.

