     He has not wanted the war; it has been forced upon him by the might
     of the circumstances. He has worked unswervingly to keep the peace,
     and has together with England thrown his whole influence into the
     scales to find a peaceful solution, in order to save his people
     from the horrors of war. But everything has been wrecked upon the
     attitude of Russia, which in the middle of negotiations which
     offered good outlook of success mobilized her forces, wherewith she
     proved that she did not mean in earnest what her assurances of
     peaceful intentions indicated.

     Now Germany's frontiers are menaced by Russia which drags her
     allies into the war, now Germany's honor is at stake. Is it
     possible under these circumstances that the most peace-loving
     monarch can do otherwise than take to the sword in order to defend
     the most sacred interests of the nation?

     And, finally, the German people! In them is firmly rooted the word
     of Prince Bismarck against aggressive wars: "One must not try to
     look into the cards of Fate."

     It must be stated again: Russia alone forces the war upon Europe.
     Russia alone must carry the full weight of responsibility.

       *       *       *       *       *

STATEMENT TO AMERICA.

Issued to The Associated Press from General Headquarters, Sept. 2.

     I do not know what is thought of this war in America. I assume
     there have been published in America the telegrams exchanged
     between the German Emperor, the Emperor of Russia, and the King of
     England, containing the history of the events that preceded the
     outbreak of the war, and which bears irrefutable testimony of how
     the Emperor, until the last moment, strove hard to preserve the
     peace.

     These efforts had to be futile, as Russia, under all circumstances,
     had resolved upon war, and as England, which for decades had
     encouraged the anti-German nationalism in Russia and France, did
     not avail herself of the splendid opportunity offered her to prove
     her often-emphasized love of peace, otherwise the war between
     Germany and France and England could have been averted.

     When once the archives are opened the world will learn how often
     Germany extended to England her friendly hand, but England did not
     desire the friendship of Germany. Jealous of the development of
     Germany, and feeling that by German efficiency and German industry
     she has been surpassed in some fields, she had the desire to crush
     Germany by brute force, as she in former times subdued Spain,
     Holland, and France. She believed the moment had arrived, and
     therefore the entry of German troops into Belgium gave her a
     welcome pretext to take part in the war.

     Germany, however, was forced to enter Belgium because she had to
     forestall the planned French advance, and Belgium only awaited this
     advance to join France. That only a pretext was involved as far as
     England is concerned is proved by the fact that already on the
     afternoon of Aug. 2, that is, prior to the violation of Belgium
     neutrality by Germany, Sir Edward Grey assured the French
     Ambassador unconditionally of the help of England in case the
     German fleet attacked the French coast.

     Moral scruple, however, the English policy does not know. And thus
     the English people, who always posed as the protagonist of freedom
     and right, has allied itself with Russia, the representative of the
     most terrible barbarism, a country that knows no spiritual or no
     religious freedom, that tramples upon the freedom of peoples as
     well as of individuals. Already England is beginning to recognize
     that she has made a mistake in her calculations, and that Germany
     will master her enemies. She is therefore trying by the pettiest
     means to injure Germany as much as possible in her commerce and
     colonies, by instigating Japan, regardless of the consequences to
     the cultural community of the white race, to a pillaging expedition
     against Kiao-Chau, and leading the negroes in Africa to fight
     against the Germans in the colonies.

     Having strangled the news service of Germany to the whole world,
     and having opened the campaign against us with a falsehood, England
     will tell your countrymen that the German troops burned down
     Belgian villages and cities, but will pass over in silence the fact
     that Belgian girls gouged out the eyes of defenseless wounded.
     Officials of Belgian cities have invited our officers to dinner and
     shot and killed them across the table. Contrary to all
     international law, the whole civilian population of Belgium was
     called out, and after having at first shown friendliness, carried
     on in the rear of our troops a terrible warfare with concealed
     weapons.

     Belgian women cut the throats of soldiers whom they had quartered
     in their homes while they were sleeping. England also will say
     nothing of the dumdum bullets which are being used by the English
     and French despite all conventions and their hypocritical
     proclamations of humanity, which can be seen here in their original
     packing as they were found on French and English prisoners of war.

     The Emperor has authorized me to say all this and to state that he
     has full confidence in the sense of justice of the American people,
     which will not allow itself to be deceived through the war of
     falsehood which our enemies are conducting against us.

The statement of the Chancellor concludes as follows:

     Every one who has lived in Germany since the outbreak of the war
     has been able to witness the great moral uprising of all Germans
     who, pressed hard on all sides, cheerfully take the field for the
     defense of their rights and their existence; every one knows that
     this people is not capable of any unnecessary cruelty or of any
     brutality. We will win, thanks to the great moral strength which
     our just cause gives to our troops, and in the end the greatest
     falsehoods will be able to obscure our victories as little as they
     do our rights.

       *       *       *       *       *

GERMANY'S ARMAMENTS.

Speech Delivered in the Reichstag, March 30, 1911.

     I have asked to speak in order to make a few brief remarks on the
     question of disarmament and arbitration. The Social Democratic
     motion proposes that I should take steps to bring about a general
     limitation of armaments. As a matter of fact, the idea of
     disarmament is being constantly discussed by pacifists in
     Parliaments and in Congresses far and wide. Even the first peace
     conference at The Hague had to confine itself to expressing the
     wish that the Governments should devote themselves to the continued
     study of the question.

     Germany has responded to this desire, but has been able to find no
     suitable formula, and I am not aware that other Governments have
     been more successful. The time when wars were made by Cabinets is
     past. The feelings which here in Europe may lead to war lie
     elsewhere.

     They have their roots in antagonisms which must be found in popular
     sentiment. Everybody knows how easily this sentiment is influenced
     and how, unfortunately, in many cases, it abandons itself
     helplessly to irresponsible press agitations. A counterpoise to
     all such and similar influences can but be desired. I shall be the
     first to welcome it whenever international efforts succeed in
     creating such a counterpoise.

     But if I am to take practical steps and am to propose mutual
     disarmament to the other powers, then general pacific assurances
     and adjurations are not enough. With Germany there is no need for
     such assurances or adjurations, in view of her constant policy
     throughout forty years, which shows that we seek no quarrels in the
     world. I should have to submit a fixed, definite programme. Then I
     should have to consider in all sobriety whether such a programme
     could be drawn up and carried out. Any one who makes uncertain and
     vague proposals can easily become a disturber of the peace rather
     than a peacemaker.

     I shall have to decline to draw up such a formula and submit it to
     an international congress.

England's Naval Police.

     England is convinced, and has repeatedly declared, in spite of her
     desires for the limitation of expenditure on armaments and for the
     adjustment of any disputes that may arise by arbitral procedure,
     that her fleet must in all circumstances be superior, or at any
     rate equal, to any possible combination in the world. England has a
     perfect right to strive for such a state of things, and, precisely
     because of the position that I take up toward the disarmament
     question, I am the last to cast doubts upon it. It is quite another
     thing, however, to make such a claim the basis of a convention
     which must be recognized by all the other powers in peaceful
     agreement. What if counterclaims are raised and the other powers
     are not satisfied with the rôles assigned to them?

     One only requires to propound these questions in order to see
     things would not go well for European dignity at any world congress
     which had to decide upon such claims.

     And then armies. If, for example, Germany should be required to
     reduce her army by 100,000 men, by how many men must the other
     powers diminish their armies? Notwithstanding all the pacific
     assurances which, thank God, are being given everywhere, every
     nation would reply to me at any preliminary inquiry that it claims
     that position in the world which corresponds with the sum of its
     national power, that the strength of its defensive forces must be
     adapted to this claim. At any rate, I would give no other reply for
     Germany. I should be touching the honor and national sentiment of
     any other people if I expected any other statement from it.

Question of Control.

     Every attempt at international disarmament must break down on the
     question of control, which is absolutely impracticable. A classic
     example of that is afforded by Prussia when overthrown by Napoleon.
     Her army was to be limited to 45,000 men, but her patriotism,
     notwithstanding the most ruthless application of every means of
     control, managed to raise an army four times as large. The question
     of disarmament is insoluble so long as men are men and States are
     States.

     In the course of the debate reference has been made to the recent
     utterances of the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in
     the House of Commons on the disarmament question. The English
     Minister gave expression to the idea that a reciprocal exchange of
     information concerning the naval construction of both countries
     would insure them against surprises, and that thereby both
     countries would be convinced that they were not trying mutually to
     outstrip each other, while other powers would thereby be kept
     informed regarding the relations of Germany and England, and so the
     exchange of announcements would, on the whole, serve to promote
     peace.

