The conversation then turning on London, and the way men and carriages moved up the streets
like strings of ants on their migrations, Rumanika said the villages in Ruanda were of enormous
extent, and the people great sportsmen, for they turned out in multitudes, with small dogs
on whose necks were tied bells, and blowing horns themselves, to hunt leopards. They were,
however, highly superstitious, and would not allow any strangers to enter their country; for
some years ago, when Arabs went there, a great drought and famine set in, which they attributed
to evil influences brought by them, and, turning them out of their country, said they would
never admit any of their like amongst them again. I said, in return, I thought his Wanyambo
just as superstitious, for I observed, whilst walking one day, that they had placed a gourd
on the path, and on inquiry found they had done so to gain the sympathy of all passers-by to
their crop close at hand, which was blighted, imagining that the voice of the sympathiser heard
by the spirits would induce them to relent, and restore a healthy tone to the crop.

During this time an interesting case was brought before us for judgment. Two men having married
one woman, laid claim to her child, which, as it was a male one, belonged to the father. Baraka
was appointed the umpire, and immediately comparing the infant's face with those of its claimants,
gave a decision which all approved of but the loser. It was pronounced amidst peals of laughter
from my men; for whenever any little excitement is going forward, the Wanguana all rush to
the scene of action to give their opinions, and joke over it afterwards.

29th and 30th.--On telling Rumanika this story next morning, he said, "Many funny things happen
in Karague"; and related some domestic incidents, concluding with the moral that "Marriage
in Karague was a mere matter of money." Cows, sheep, and slaves have to be given to the father
for the value of his daughter; but if she finds she has made a mistake, she can return the
dowry-money, and gain her release. The Wahuma, although they keep slaves and marry with pure
negroes, do not allow their daughters to taint their blood by marrying out of their clan. In
warfare it is the rule that the Wahinda, or princes, head their own soldiers, and set them
the example of courage, when, after firing a few arrows, they throw their bows away, and close
at once with their spears and assages. Life is never taken in Karague, either for murder or
cowardice, as they value so much their Wahuma breed; but, for all offences, fines of cows are
exacted according to the extent of the crime.

31st.--Ever proud of his history since I had traced his descent from Abyssinia and King David,
whose hair was as straight as my own, Rumanika dwelt on my theological disclosures with the
greatest delight, and wished to know what difference existed between the Arabs and ourselves;
to which Baraka replied, as the best means of making him understand, that whilst the Arabs
had only one Book, we had two; to which I added, Yes, that is true in a sense; but the real
merits lie in the fact that we have got the better BOOK, as may be inferred from the obvious
fact that we are more prosperous, and their superiors in all things, as I would prove to him
if he would allow me to take one of his sons home to learn that BOOK; for then he would find
his tribe, after a while, better off than the Arabs are. Much delighted, he said he would be
very glad to give me two boys for that purpose.

Then, changing the subject, I pressed Rumanika, as he said he had no idea of a God or future
state, to tell me what advantage he expected from sacrificing a cow yearly at his father's
grave. He laughingly replied he did not know, but he hoped he might be favoured with better
crops if he did so. He also place pombe and grain, he said, for the same reason, before a large
stone on the hillside, although it could not eat, or make any use of it; but the coast-men
were of the same belief as himself, and so were all the natives. No one in Africa, as far as
he knew, doubted the power of magic and spells; and if a fox barked when he was leading an
army to battle, he would retire at once, knowing that this prognosticated evil. There were
many other animals, and lucky and unlucky birds, which all believed in.

I then told him it was fortunate he had no disbelievers like us to contend with in battle,
for we, instead of trusting to luck and such omens, put our faith only in skill and pluck,
which Baraka elucidated from his military experience in the wars in British India. Lastly,
I explained to him how England formerly was as unenlightened as Africa, and believing in the
same sort of superstitions, and the inhabitants were all as naked as his skin-wearing Wanyambo;
but now, since they had grown wiser, and saw through such impostures, they were the greatest
men in the world. He said, for the future he would disregard what the Arabs said, and trust
to my doctrines, for without doubt he had never seen such a wise man as myself; and the Arabs
themselves confirmed this when they told him that all their beads and cloths came from the
land of the Wazungu, or white men.

1st, 2d, and 3d.--The new year was ushered in by the most exciting intelligence, which drove
us half wild with delight, for we fully believed Mr Petherick was indeed on his road up the
Nile, endeavouring to meet us. It was this:--An officer of Rumanika's, who had been sent four
years before on a mission to Kamrasi, had just then returned with a party of Kamrasi's who
brought ivory for sale to the Arabs at Kufro, along with a vaunting commission to inform Rumanika
that Kamrasi had foreign visitors as well as himself. They had not actually come into Unyoro,
but were in his dependency, the country of Gani, coming up the Nile in vessels. They had been
attacked by the Gani people, and driven back with considerable loss both of men and property,
although they were in sailing vessels, and fired guns which even broke down the trees on the
banks. Some of their property had been brought to him, and he in return had ordered his subjects
not to molest them, but allow them to come on to him. Rumanika enjoyed this news as much as
myself, especially when I told him of Petherick's promise to meet us, just as these men said
he was trying to do; and more especially so, when I told him that if he would assist me in
trying to communicate with Petherick, the latter would either come here himself, or send one
of his men, conveying a suitable present, whilst I was away in Uganda; and then in the end
we would all go off to Kamrasi's together.

4th.--Entering warmly into the spirit of this important intelligence, Rumanika inquired into
its truth; and, finding no reason to doubt it, said he would send some men back with Kamrasi's
men, if I could have patience until they were ready to go. There would be no danger, as Kamrasi
was his brother-in-law, and would do all that he told him.

I now proposed to send Baraka, who, ashamed to cry off, said he would go with Rumanika's officers
if I allowed him a companion of his own choosing, who would take care of him if he got sick
on the way, otherwise he should be afraid they would leave him to die, like a dog, in the jungles.
We consoled him by assenting to the companion he wished, and making Rumanika responsible that
no harm should come to him from any of the risks which his imagination conjured up. Rumanika
then gave him and Uledi, his selected companion, some sheets of mbugu, in order that they might
disguise themselves as his officers whilst crossing the territories of the king of Uganda.
On inquiring as to the reason of this, it transpired that, to reach Unyoro, the party would
have to cross a portion of Uddu, which the late king Sunna, on annexing that country to Uganda,
had divided, not in halves, but by alternate bands running transversely from Nkole to the Victoria
N'yanza.

5th and 6th.--To keep Rumanika up to the mark, I introduced to him Saidi, one of my men, who
was formerly a slave, captured in Walamo, on the borders of Abyssinia, to show him, by his
similarity to the Wahuma, how it was I had come to the conclusion that he was of the same race.
Saidi told him his tribe kept cattle with the same stupendous horns as those of the Wahuma;
and also that, in the same manner, they all mixed blood and milk for their dinners, which,
to his mind, confirmed my statement. At night, as there was a partial eclipse of the moon,
all the Wanguana marched up and down from Rumanika's to Nnanaji's huts, singing and beating
our tin cooking-pots to frighten off the spirit of the sun from consuming entirely the chief
object of reverence, the moon.

7th.--Our spirits were now further raised by the arrival of a semi-Hindu-Suahili, named Juma,
who had just returned from a visit to the king of Uganda, bringing back with him a large present
of ivory and slaves; for he said he had heard from the king of our intention to visit him,
and that he had despatched officers to call us immediately. This intelligence delighted Rumanika
as much as it did us, and he no sooner heard it than he said, with ecstasies, "I will open
Africa, since the white men desire it; for did not Dagara command us to show deference to strangers?"
Then, turning to me, he added, "My only regret is, you will not take something as a return
for the great expenses you have been put to in coming to visit me." The expense was admitted,
for I had now been obliged to purchase from the Arabs upwards of £400 worth of beads, to keep
such a store in reserve for my return from Uganda as would enable me to push on to Gondokoro.
I thought this necessary, as every report that arrived from Unyamuezi only told us of further
disasters with the merchants in that country. Sheikh Said was there even then, with my poor
Hottentots, unable to convey my post to the coast.

8th to 10th.--At last we heard the familiar sound of the Uganda drum. N'yamgundu, who had seen
us in Usui, had marched on to inform the king of our advance and desire to see him; and he,
intensely delighted at the prospect of having white men for his guests, desired no time should
be lost in our coming on. Maula told us that his officers had orders to supply us with everything
we wanted whilst passing through his country, and that there would be nothing to pay.

One thing only now embarrassed me--Grant was worse, without hope of recovery for at least one
or two months. This large body of Waganda could not be kept waiting. To get on as fast as possible
was the only chance of ever bringing the journey to a successful issue; so, unable to help
myself, with great remorse at another separation, on the following day I consigned my companion,
with several Wanguana, to the care of my friend Rumanika. I then separated ten loads of beads
and thirty copper wires for my expenses in Uganda; wrote a letter to Petherick, which I gave
to Baraka; and gave him and his companion beads to last as money for six months, and also a
present both for Kamrasi and the Gani chief. To Nsangez I gave charge of my collections in
natural history, and the reports of my progress, addressed to the Geographical Society, which
he was to convey to Sheikh Said at Kaze, for conveyance as far as Zanzibar.

This business concluded in camp, I started my men and went to the palace to bid adieu to Rumanika,
who appointed Rozaro, one of his officers, to accompany me wherever I went in Uganda, and to
bring me back safely again. At Rumanika's request I then gave Mtesa's pages some ammunition
to hurry on with to the great king of Uganda, as his majesty had ordered them to bring him,
as quickly as possible, some strengthening powder, and also some powder for his gun. Then,
finally, to Maula, also under Rumanika's instructions, I gave two copper wires and five bundles
of beads; and, when all was completed, set out on the march, perfectly sure in my mind that
before very long I should settle the great Nile problem for ever; and, with this consciousness,
only hoping that Grant would be able to join me before I should have to return again, for it
was never supposed for a moment that it was possible I ever could go north from Uganda. Rumanika
was the most resolute in this belief, as the kings of Uganda, ever since that country was detached
from Unyoro, had been making constant raids, seizing cattle and slaves from the surrounding
communities.

Chapter IX. History of the Wahuma

The Abyssinians and Gallas--Theory of Conquest of Inferior by Superior Races--The Wahuma and
the Kingdom of Kittara--Legendary History of the Kingdom of Uganda--Its Constitution, and the
Ceremonials of the Court.

The reader has now had my experience of several of the minor states, and has presently to be
introduced to Uganda, the most powerful state in the ancient but now divided great kingdom
of Kittara. I shall have to record a residence of considerable duration at the court there;
and, before entering on it, I propose to state my theory of the ethnology of that part of Africa
inhabited by the people collectively styled Wahuma--otherwise Gallas or Abyssinians. My theory
is founded on the traditions of the several nations, as checked by my own observations of what
I saw when passing through them. It appears impossible to believe, judging from the physical
appearance of the Wahuma, that they can be of any other race than the semi-Shem-Hamitic of
Ethiopia. The traditions of the imperial government of Abyssinia go as far back as the scriptural
age of King David, from whom the late reigning king of Abyssinia, Sahela Selassie, traced his
descent.

Most people appear to regard the Abyssinians as a different race from the Gallas, but, I believe,
without foundation. Both alike are Christians of the greatest antiquity. It is true that, whilst
the aboriginal Abyssinians in Abyssinia proper are more commonly agriculturists, the Gallas
are chiefly a pastoral people; but I conceive that the two may have had the same relations
with each other which I found the Wahuma kings and Wahuma herdsmen holding with the agricultural
Wazinza in Uzinza, the Wanyambo in Karague, the Waganda in Uganda, and the Wanyoro in Unyoro.

In these countries the government is in the hands of foreigners, who had invaded and taken
possession of them, leaving the agricultural aborigines to till the ground, whilst the junior
members of the usurping clans herded cattle--just as in Abyssinia, or wherever the Abyssinians
or Gallas have shown themselves. There a pastoral clan from the Asiatic side took the government
of Abyssinia from its people and have ruled over them ever since, changing, by intermarriage
with the Africans, the texture of their hair and colour to a certain extent, but still maintaining
a high stamp of Asiatic feature, of which a market characteristic is a bridged instead of bridgeless
nose.

