The success of school nurses in the cities has led to their employment in the smaller towns,
and now county school nurses are being employed in individual counties in several states, and
in other states school nurses are employed by townships or jointly by several rural school
districts. Wisconsin and Ohio have recently enacted laws compelling every county to employ
at least one public health nurse, and a dozen or more states have passed legislation making
the employment of county or local nurses optional. Under whatever auspices they are employed,
rural public health nurses have found that their most effective work may be done at first in
connection with the schools. Medical examination of school children is now required in many
states, but unless it is followed up by some one who will see the parents and encourage them
to secure the necessary medical or dental treatment, the results of these examinations are
often disappointing.

A most interesting and instructive account of the work done by a county school nurse during
the first year of her work in typical Minnesota county has been given by Miss Amalia M. Bengtson,
superintendent of schools of Renville County:

      "Renville County is prosperous; there are few poor people,
      no child is underfed and no one wilfully neglected, yet our
      tabulated report shows an appalling amount of physical
      defectiveness. Out of our school population of six thousand
      we examined five thousand children, and found four thousand
      and ninety-five defective, testifying that 81 percent of the
      children were defective. This seems almost unbelievable, and
      yet it does not tell the whole story, for I could take you
      to school after school where there was 100 percent
      defectiveness, where we sent a notice to every parent in
      that school. Yet, as I said before, Renville County is a
      prosperous county, and we have every reason to believe that
      conditions in Renville County to-day are the same as in
      other counties where a health survey has been taken. The
      percentages of the defectiveness found were: teeth, 55
      percent; nose, 40 percent; throat, 66 percent; eyes, 22
      percent; ears, 17 percent; malnutrition, 16 percent;
      nervous disorder, 16 percent; neck glands, 14 percent; skin,
      13 percent; and general appearance, 12 per cent."[57]

      In reply to the question, "What of it? What good came of the
      health survey?" Miss Bengtson says: "Our records show that
      about one thousand of the children examined were taken to
      see either a doctor or a dentist, or both, the first year.
      Parents who at first opposed the work are fully convinced
      that a county nurse should be a permanent worker among us
      when they see how much their children have been benefited by
      a little medical help.

      "Besides examining the children, the nurse has been a great
      factor in bringing about a general education for better
      health. In our county to-day you are behind the times if you
      do not know what adenoids are and the havoc bad tonsils can
      bring; why eye strain is so prevalent and how to prevent it;
      why teeth should be taken care of; why we should drink
      plenty of water and eat the proper kind of food; what kind
      of clothing is best to wear, and why we should not wear too
      heavy and too much clothing while indoors (we have induced
      some little boys to remove one coat and three sweaters while
      in school); why we need to be clean, etc.

      "Another great service the nurse rendered us was to bring
      about a veritable epidemic of school-house improvement. She
      proved that the physical condition of the school-house was
      reflected in the physical condition of the children. For
      example, a poorly lighted and badly ventilated school-house
      always housed children with eye strain and nervous disorder,
      and in a school-house having ill-fitting desks were children
      of poor posture.

      "During the summer of that first year the nurse was with us,
      we conducted so-called 'baby clinics' in the county, one in
      every township and one in each village. We urged the mothers
      to bring their children below school age to the clinics, and
      much the same kind of examination was given them as was
      given the children of school age. We found that 60 percent
      of the children of pre-school age were defective."

This is but a sample of the work and experience of hundreds of rural nurses and shows how the
nurse is a health teacher in the most effective manner, for she gets into the homes and gives
personal help in bringing about better health. She uses the demonstration method in health
work just as the home demonstration agent does with food, clothing, and home management. Furthermore,
when the nurse is devoted to her work--and most nurses are or they would not stick to so hard
a job--she becomes endeared to the people just as does the family doctor, for the help she
gives in cases of sickness, accident, and childbirth, when she is of invaluable service to
isolated homes who can secure no other help. A slip of a girl--though a well-trained nurse--who
commenced work in a nearby community was introduced to her new work with two confinement cases
and an accident case the first day, for none of which was a physician obtainable. The Red Cross
Nurse in my own county has spent many a night in a farm home in order to get sufficiently acquainted
with parents to induce them to allow her to have needed treatment given to their children,
and when the parents come to realize the benefit which their children have received from operations
on tonsils or adenoids, the fitting of glasses, and similar services, and appreciate the handicap
which such defects would have been to them through life, the nurse has a warm place in their
hearts and they eagerly support her work.

One of the difficulties of the average country doctor is his lack of facilities for the expert
diagnosis of disease and for the care of patients who need to be kept under observation and
given supervised care. Medical science has become highly specialized. The human body is so
complicated and wonderful a mechanism that we no longer can expect any one man to be expert
on all its ailments. If one desires to secure the best medical service, he goes to a large
city hospital or a sanitarium, where various specialists can be consulted and where laboratory
facilities are available for their aid. In the average village or country town both specialists
and laboratories are lacking and the physician is dependent on his own knowledge and resources.
The well-trained physician who appreciates his own limitations and that he cannot give many
of his more difficult cases the care they ought to have, sends those who can afford it to the
nearest hospital, and does the best he can for the others, but he is keenly aware that he cannot
always give them the treatment they should have and he envies his city colleague who can take
his patients to specialists for examination.

It is a fear of this professional isolation which causes the average young doctor to start
his practice in the city where he has better facilities, and which is largely responsible for
the small number of young doctors in rural counties. It is, of course, impossible to have a
hospital in every hamlet, but it is possible to have a good hospital and laboratories at every
county seat or small city center, so that there will be at least one such medical center in
a county. Legislation has now been enacted in several states making it possible for counties
to support a public hospital just as the larger cities have done for many years. Here clinics
may be held from time to time, to which eminent specialists may be brought for the diagnosis
of different cases, to the advantage of both patient and physician. It is quite impossible
for a busy country doctor to maintain a private laboratory and to provide himself with all
the expensive equipment for making examination and tests of blood, sputum, urine, for X-ray
examinations, etc., but the hospital may have all this equipment at his service.

One of the most important features of the domestic program of the American Red Cross is the
promotion of so-called "Health Centers," a movement which is also sponsored by the American
Medical Association and other national health organizations. Such a health center may include
a hospital with well equipped laboratories and clinical facilities, or it may be nothing more
than a room in a small village, equipped with scales for weighing children, with first aid
kits for accident cases, and used for occasional clinics for the examination of babies and
children of pre-school age and for classes in home nursing or first aid; but every community
of any size should have some place which will be a headquarters for its local health Service,
equipped as may be most practicable to meet its needs, according to the size of the community.

Curiously enough the local physicians, who would be most helped by such improved health facilities
and whose practice would be benefited by them, are often their chief opponents. The leaders
in the medical world, who are keen for all practicable means of improving the public health,
heartily support the "health center" movement.

We are coming to the time when the maintenance of health will be regarded as a public function
just as education is now provided for all the people and supported by them. That country people
are alive to the need of better health facilities is shown by a resolution of the recent (February,
1922) Agricultural Conference called by President Harding at Washington. Its committee on farm
population reported:

      "The safeguarding of the health of the people in the open
      country is a first consideration. Any program that looks
      toward the proper safeguarding of health must include
      adequate available facilities for the people in the open
      country in the way of hospitals, clinics, laboratories,
      dispensaries, nurses, physicians, and health officers. This
      committee endorses the growing tendency through public
      agencies to maintain the health of the people by means of
      these facilities and agencies."

The life of rural people in America is no longer threatened by the invasion of human foes,
but it is constantly threatened by disease. It would seem that the first public concern would
be for the maintenance of the health--the very life--of its people, but as yet we have given
much less thought to health than to education. The New York State Department of Health has
as its slogan: "Public health is purchasable. Within natural limitations any community can
determine its own death rate." This is no longer theory, but can be demonstrated by official
mortality statistics. The death rate has declined more rapidly in cities than in rural communities
because the cities have given more adequate support to public health organization. The rural
community has all the natural advantages in its favor and will ever have the most healthful
environment, but it must recognize that if preventable disease--with all its attendant evils
to the family and to the individual--is to be reduced, this can be accomplished only through
education and public health agencies. Better health is a matter of the hygiene of the home
and the individual, but it has also become a concern of the common life--a community problem.

FOOTNOTES:

[54] "A Study of Sickness in Dutchess County, New York." State Charities Aid Association, New
York City.

[55] L. L. Lumsden, "Rural Sanitation," U. S. Public Health Service. Public Health Bulletin
No. 94, Oct., 1918.

[56] See Dr. W. S. Rankin, "Report of Committee on Rural Health," Proceedings Second National
Country Life Conference, p. 93.

[57] "An Adventure in Rural Health Service." Proceedings Second National Country Life Conference,
p. 47.

CHAPTER XIII

THE COMMUNITY'S PLAY AND RECREATION

The people of most rural communities have an unsatisfied desire for more play, recreation,
and sociable life. Opportunities for enjoyment seem more available in the towns and cities
and are therefore a leading cause of the great exodus. Economic prosperity and good wages are
not alone sufficient to keep people on farms and in villages if their income will not purchase
the satisfactions they desire. To a certain extent many of these advantages of the town and
city can be brought to the rural community, but only when country people come to appreciate
and develop those forms of play and recreation which are possible and adapted to their conditions,
and when they are willing to afford ample facilities and opportunity for the play of their
children, will the lure of the city be checked. With such a changed attitude the rural community
need have no fear of the competition of the city. It may not be able to have as fine commercial
amusements, but it can have the best sort of play and recreation at small cost, for which the
cities incur large expense.

There is a peculiar need for a better understanding of the place of play and recreation in
the open country at the present time. Formerly large families gave better opportunity for the
children of one family to play together, and there were more children of similar ages at the
district school of the neighborhood. To-day with farms farther apart and fewer children, farm
children do not have sufficient opportunity to play together in groups. The better opportunity
for group play and team games is one of the advantages of the consolidated school which has
been too little appreciated.

We have seen that one of the obvious necessities for the economic progress of agriculture is
that its business be conducted on a coöperative basis. The chief obstacle to coöperation is
the individualism of the farmer. The training of boys and girls in team games, in which they
learn loyalty to the group and to subordinate themselves to the winning of the team, will do
much to change this attitude. Boys who play baseball and basketball together, who are associated
in boy scouts and agricultural clubs, will be much quicker to coöperate, for they grow up with
an attitude of loyalty to the team group as well as to their own family.

Again, the awkwardness and self-consciousness of the country youth in comparison with his city
cousin is due to no inherent inferiority, for in a few years he often out-strips him, but it
is the direct result of his lack of social contacts. Personality develops through social life,
through the give and take of one personality with another, through imitation, and the acquirement
of a natural ease of association with others. The country boy and girl who has had the advantage
of association with larger groups in the consolidated school or high school tends to become
quite the social equal of the city child.

Heretofore many people, and particularly farm people, have regarded play and recreation for
adults as more or less frivolous or unnecessary, while for children play has been used as an
award for good conduct or hard work, but it has by no means been deemed a necessary phase of
the child's life. If Johnnie does all his chores or if Mary washes the dishes and dusts the
furniture faithfully, the opportunity for play is held up as a reward for services rendered;
but that time for play and proper kinds of play are essential for a child's education has only
recently been established by the students of child psychology and is not, as yet, generally
appreciated either by parents or teachers.

It is often said that this is the "age of the child," in that our civilization is more largely
shaped by a desire to give our children the best possible advantages. We have come to appreciate,
thanks to the insight of such philosophers as John Fiske,[58] that the advancement of the human
race has been very largely due to the prolongation of the period of infancy. Ordinarily we
think of play as an attribute of childhood, but as an incident rather than as a fundamental
reason for the prolongation of childhood. Most modern students of child psychology, however,
will take the view of Karl Gross,[59] an authority on the play of man and animals, who says:
"Children do not play because they are young; they are young in order that they may play."
Play is a normal process of the child's growth through spontaneous activity. Joseph Lee, the
president of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, goes so far as to say: "Play
is thus the essential part of education. It is nature's prescribed course. School is invaluable
in forming the child to meet actual social opportunities and conditions. Without the school,
he will not grow up to fit our institutions. Without play he will not grow up at all.[60]

I do not mean that a child should have no responsibilities, for that is the misfortune of the
city child, but it is important to recognize the truth of old adage that "all work and no play
makes Jack a dull boy," which modern psychology has given a scientific basis. One of the most
fundamental needs for the promotion of play in rural communities is to secure a new attitude
toward it on the part of many parents. Too frequently--and alas, often from necessity--children
are compelled to do too much farm labor. Agriculture is still a family industry, and very often
on the poorer farms the older children seem to be considered chiefly as an economic asset.
Overwork and little or no time to satisfy the innate tendency of children to play, inevitably
produces a dislike of farm life and is one of the most obvious reasons why many of them leave
the farm as soon as possible.

Many parents have forgotten how to play and have lost the "feel" of it. It is important for
them to play themselves in order to appreciate the needs of their children, and to have a real
sympathy with them. Picnics, play festivals, and sociables, at which every one is compelled
to "get into the game," are valuable for this purpose. Many a man recovers his youth in a picnic
baseball game. Others have never had much play in their own lives and do not appreciate its
value for the best development of their children. Play festivals or demonstrations and local
athletic meets in which their children participate may appeal to their parental pride. Furthermore,
when such play days are community affairs, they give the sanction of public opinion to the
games played and to those participating in them. The play idea is popularized.

Play in the Home.--Although the small family does not furnish opportunity for group games,
which are necessary for the satisfaction both of children and adults, yet the movement for
better play facilities for the community should not overlook the fact that the home is the
fundamental social institution of rural life and that play and recreation in the home are essential
to its success and happiness. Home games bind the family together, and parents who play with
their children find it much easier to secure and maintain their confidence. The community may
well give attention to the encouragement of games and play in the homes as well as in the community
gatherings. We need a definite movement on the part of pastors, teachers, and especially by
such organizations as granges and farm and home bureaus for the promotion of play by young
and old in the farm home.

Influence of the Automobile.--One of the values of the automobile is that by its use many a
farmer has been given a new realization of the value of recreation. The new desire for recreation
thus created is a great gain for farm life. There is no reason why the farmer and his family
should not have as much enjoyment of life as town and city people, and if they cannot, then
only the poorer class of people will remain on the farms. Occasionally one hears a commercial
salesman or some city business man decrying the effect of automobiles on farmers, claiming
that they are neglecting their work while chasing around the country having a good time. Doubtless
in occasional instances this is as true of the farmer as it is of the townsman, but such farmers
will soon come to their senses or get off the farm, and even were there a general tendency
of this sort in some communities it must be regarded as the temporary excitement of a new experience.
On the other hand, the breaking down of the old stolidity which dominated many a farmer who
had become so accustomed to work day in and day out that he was hardly happy when he had a
chance for recreation, and the creation of a wholesome desire for a larger experience and more
association with others, is one of the largest gains in country life and will not only raise
the standards of living, but will be a potent incentive for better agricultural methods. There
can be no progress without a certain amount of dissatisfaction. Contentedness has its virtues,
but it may degenerate into inertia and the death of all desire for better life.

On the other hand, the automobile and trolley have made it possible for farm people to easily
reach the towns and there attend movies and other commercial amusements and to take part in
the social life of the town and city. This may weaken the social life of the rural community,
and it also tends to make rural people imitate the forms of play, recreation, and social life
of the city, which are not necessarily best suited to rural life. When rural people come to
appreciate that those forms of play and recreation which are native or are adapted to the country
have many advantages over those of their city cousins, and in many ways may have higher values
and satisfactions, they will give more heed to developing those which are most suitable for
their enjoyment. Because various kinds of expensive play apparatus are desirable for the small
playground of the city, which is crowded with hundreds of children, is no reason why similar
apparatus should be thought necessary for the school-yard of the rural school. Many of the
present tendencies of recreation in cities are but revivals of rural customs which are receiving
new recognition because they appeal to that which is innate in human nature. What is community
singing but a variation of the old-fashioned singing school? Folk-dancing originated in the
country as an expression of the activities of every-day life, and should be encouraged everywhere.
Dramatics and pageantry are native to the countryside. The fair and festival are rural institutions.

