The group for an instant was silent, and then Evelyn said:

"We have waited so long; mamma, that I am a little tired, and you will excuse me from the drive
this afternoon?"

"Certainly, my dear."

When the two were seated in the carriage, Mrs. Mavick turned to Lord Montague:

"Well?"

"No go," replied my lord, as sententiously, and in evident bad humor.

"What? And you made a direct proposal?"

"Showed her my whole hand. Made a square offer. Damme, I am not used to this sort of thing."

"You don't mean that she refused you?"

"Don't know what you call it. Wouldn't start."

"She couldn't have understood you. What did she say?"

"Said it was too much honor, and that rot. By Jove, she didn't look it. I rather liked her
pluck. She didn't flinch."

"Oh, is that all?" And Mrs. Mavick spoke as if her mind were relieved. "What could you expect
from such a sudden proposal to a young girl, almost a child, wholly unused to the world? I
should have done the same thing at her age. It will look different to her when she reflects,
and understands what the position is that is offered her. Leave that to me."

Lord Montague shook his head and screwed up his keen little eyes. His mind was in full play.
"I know women, Mrs. Mavick, and I tell you there is something behind this. Somebody has been
in the stable." The noble lord usually dropped into slang when he was excited.

"I don't understand your language," said Mrs. Mavick, straightening herself up in her seat.

"I beg pardon. It is just a way of speaking on the turf. When a favorite goes lame the morning
of the race, we know some one has been tampering with him. I tell you there is some one else.
She has some one else in her mind. That's the reason of it."

"Nonsense." cried Mrs. Mavick, with the energy of conviction. "It's impossible. There is nobody,
couldn't be anybody. She has led a secluded life till this hour. She hasn't a fancy, I know."

"I hope you are right," he replied, in the tone of a man wishing to take a cheerful view. "Perhaps
I don't understand American girls."

"I think I do," she said, smiling. "They are generally amenable to reason. Evelyn now has something
definite before her. I am glad you proposed."

And this was the truth. Mrs. Mavick was elated. So far her scheme was completely successful.
As to Evelyn, she trusted to various influences she could bring to bear. Ultimate disobedience
of her own wishes she did not admit as a possible thing.

A part of her tactics was the pressure of public opinion, so far as society represents it--that
is, what society expects. And therefore it happened in a few days that a strong suspicion got
about that Lord Montague had proposed formally to the heiress. The suspicion was strengthened
by appearances. Mrs. Mavick did not deny the rumor. That there was an engagement was not affirmed,
but that the honor had been or would be declined was hardly supposable.

In the painful interview between mother and daughter concerning this proposal, Evelyn had no
reason to give for her opposition, except that she did not love him. This point Mrs. Mavick
skillfully evaded and minimized. Of course she would love him in time. The happiest marriages
were founded on social fitness and the judgment of parents, and not on the inexperienced fancies
of young girls. And in this case things had gone too far to retreat. Lord Montague's attentions
had been too open and undisguised. He had been treated almost as a son by the house. Society
looked upon the affair as already settled. Had Evelyn reflected on the mortification that would
fall upon her mother if she persisted in her unreasonable attitude? And Mrs. Mavick shed actual
tears in thinking upon her own humiliation.

The ball which followed these private events was also a part of Mrs. Mavick's superb tactics.
It would be in a way a verification of the public rumors and a definite form of pressure which
public expectation would exercise upon the lonely girl.

The splendor of this function is still remembered. There were, however, features in the glowing
descriptions of it which need to be mentioned. It was assumed that it was for a purpose, that
it was in fact, if not a proclamation, at least an intimation of a new and brilliant Anglo-Saxon
alliance. No one asserted that an engagement existed. But the prominent figures in the spectacle
were the English lord and the young and beautiful American heiress. There were portraits of
both in half-tone. The full names and titles expectant of Lord Montague were given, a history
of the dukedom of Tewkesbury and its ancient glory, with the long line of noble names allied
to the young lord, who was a social star of the first magnitude, a great traveler, a sportsman
of the stalwart race that has the world for its field. ("Poor little Monte," said the managing
editor as he passed along these embellishments with his approval.)

On the other hand, the proposed alliance was no fall in dignity or family to the English house.
The heiress was the direct descendant of the Eschelles, an old French family, distinguished
in camp and court in the glorious days of the Grand Monarch.

XXIII

Probably no man ever wrote and published a book, a magazine story, or a bit of verse without
an instant decision to repeat the experiment. The inclination once indulged becomes insatiable.
It is not altogether the gratified vanity of seeing one's self in print, for, before printing
was, the composers and reciters of romances and songs were driven along the same path of unrest
and anxiety, when once they had the least recognition of their individual distinction. The
impulse is more subtle than the desire for wealth or the craving for political place. In some
cases it is in simple obedience to the longing to create; in others it is a lower ambition
for notoriety, for praise.

In any case the experiment of authorship, in however humble, a way, has an analogy to that
other tempting occupation of making "investments" in the stock-market: the first trial is certain
to lead to another. If the author succeeds in any degree, his spirit rises to another attempt
in the hope of a wider recognition. If he fails, that is a reason why he should convince his
fellows that the failure was not inherent in himself, but in ill-luck or a misdirection of
his powers. And the experiment has another analogy to the noble occupation of levying toll
upon the change of values--a first brilliant success is often a misfortune, inducing an overestimate
of capacity, while a very moderate success, recognized indeed only as a trial, steadies a man,
and sets him upon that serious diligence upon which alone, either in art or business, any solid
fortune is built.

Philip was fortunate in that his first novel won him a few friends and a little recognition,
but no popularity. It excited neither envy nor hostility. In the perfunctory and somewhat commercial
good words it received, he recognized the good-nature of the world. In the few short reviews
that dealt seriously with his work, he was able, when the excitement of seeing himself discussed
had subsided, to read between the lines why The Puritan Nun had failed to make a larger appeal.
It was idyllic and poetic, but it lacked virility; it lacked also simplicity in dealing with
the simple and profound facts of life. He had been too solicitous to express himself, to write
beautifully, instead of letting the human emotions with which he had to deal show themselves.
One notice had said that it was too "literary"; by which, of course, the critic meant that
he did not follow the solid traditions, the essential elements in all the great masterpieces
of literature that have been created. And yet he had shown a quality, a facility, a promise,
that had gained him a foothold and a support in the world of books and of the making of books.
And though he had declined Mr. Ault's tempting offer to illuminate his transcontinental road
with a literary torch, he none the less was pleased with this recognition of his capacity and
the value of his name.

To say that Philip lived on hope during this summer of heat, suspensions, and business derangement
would be to allow him a too substantial subsistence. Evelyn, indeed, seemed, at the distance
of Newport, more unattainable than ever, and the scant news he had of the drama enacted there
was a perpetual notice to him of the social gulf that lay between them. And yet his dream was
sustained by occasional assurances from Miss McDonald of her confidence in Evelyn's belief
in him, nay, of her trust, and she even went so far as to say affection. So he went on building
castles in the air, which melted and were renewed day after day, like the transient but unfailing
splendor of the sunset.

There was a certain exaltation in this indulgence of his passion that stimulated his creative
faculties, and, while his daily tasks kept him from being morbid, his imagination was free
to play with the construction of a new story, to which his recent experience would give a certain
solidity and a knowledge of the human struggle as it is.

He found himself observing character more closely than before, looking for it not so much in
books as in the people he met. There was Murad Ault, for instance. How he would like to put
him into a book! Of course it would not do to copy a model, raw, like' that, but he fell to
studying his traits, trying to see the common humanity exhibited in him. Was he a type or was
he a freak? This was, however, too dangerous ground until he knew more of life.

The week's vacation allowed him by his house was passed in Rivervale. There, in the calmness
of country life, and in the domestic atmosphere of affection which believed in him, he was
far enough removed from the scene of the spectres of his imagination to see them in proper
perspective, and there the lines of his new venture were laid down, to be worked out later
on, he well knew, in the anxiety and the toil which should endue the skeleton with life. Rivervale,
to be sure, was haunted by the remembrance of Evelyn; very often the familiar scenes filled
him with an intolerable longing to see again the eyes that had inspired him, to hear the voice
that was like no other in the world, to take the little hand that had often been so frankly
placed in his, and to draw to him the form in which was embodied all the grace and tender witchery
of womanhood. But the knowledge of what she expected of him was an inspiration, always present
in his visions of her.

Something of his hopes and fears Alice divined, and he felt her sympathy, although she did
not intrude upon his reticence by any questions. They talked about Evelyn, but it was Evelyn
in Rivervale, not in Newport. In fact, the sensible girl could regard her cousin's passion
as nothing more than a romance in a young author's life, and to her it was a sign of his security
that he had projected a new story.

