He taketh Aristor's horse, that seemed him the better, and straightway mounteth thereon, and
abandoneth his own, that might go no further.  He taketh leave of the hermit, and telleth him
he will right well repay him, but better had it befallen him and he had not taken the horse,
for thereof was he slain without reason thereafter.  A knight that was of the household of
Aristor overtook him at the corner of the forest, and knew his lord's horse and had heard tell
that Aristor was dead, wherefore he went into the forest to bury him.  He smote the knight
through the body with his spear and so slew him, then took the horse and went away forthwith.
But, had Perceval known thereof, he would have been little glad, for that he asked the knight
to go for the horse, but he did it only for the best, and for that he rode in great misease.

VII.

Perceval goeth toward the Deep Forest, that is full broad and long and evil seeming, and when
he was entered in he had scarce ridden a space when he espied the lion that lay in the midst
of a launde under a tree and was waiting for his master, that was gone afar into the forest,
and the lion well knew that just there was the way whereby knights had to pass, and therefore
had abided there.  The damsel draweth her back for fear, and Perceval goeth toward the lion
that had espied him already, and came toward him, eyes on fire and jaws yawning wide.  Perceval
aimeth his spear and thinketh to smite him in his open mouth, but the lion swerved aside and
he caught him in the fore-leg and so dealt him a great wound, but the lion seizeth the horse
with his claws on the croup, and rendeth the skin and the flesh above the tail.  The horse,
that feeleth himself wounded, catcheth him with his two hinder feet or ever he could get away,
so passing strongly that he breaketh the master-teeth in his jaw.  The lion gave out a roar
so loud that all the forest resounded thereof.  The Red Knight heareth his lion roar, and so
cometh thither a great gallop, but, or ever he was come thither, Perceval had slain the lion.
When the knight saw his lion dead, right sorry was he thereof.

"By my head," saith he to Perceval, "When you slew my lion you did it as a traitor!"

"And you," saith Perceval, "adjudged your own death when you slew my uncle's son, whose head
this damsel beareth."

Perceval cometh against him without more words, and the knight in like manner with a great
rushing, and breaketh his spear upon his shield. Perceval smiteth him with such force that
he thrusteth his spear right through his body and beareth him to the ground dead beside his
horse. Perceval alighteth of his own when he hath slain the knight, and then mounteth him on
the Red Knight's horse for that his own might carry him no longer.

VIII.

"Sir," saith the damsel, "My castle is in the midst of this forest, that the Red Knight reft
away from me long ago.  I pray you now come with me thither that I may be assured thereof in
such sort as that I may have it again wholly."

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "This have I no right to deny you."

They ride amidst the forest so long as that they come to the castle where the damsel ought
to be.  It stood in the fairest place of all the forest, and was enclosed of high Walls battlemented,
and within were fair-windowed halls.  The tidings were come to the castle that their lord was
dead.  Perceval and the damsel entered in.  He made the damsel be assured of them that were
therein, and made them yield up her castle that they well knew was hers of right inheritance.
The damsel made the head be buried that she had carried so long, and bade that every day should
mass be done within for the soul of him.  When Perceval had sojourned therein as long as pleased
him, he departed thence.  The damsel thanked him much of the bounty he had done her as concerning
the castle that she had again by him, for never again should it be reconquered of another,
as well she knew.

IX.

Josephus telleth us in the scripture he recordeth for us, whereof this history was drawn out
of Latin into Romance, that none need be in doubt that these adventures befell at that time
in Great Britain and in all the other kingdoms, and plenty enow more befell than I record,
but these were the most certain.  The history saith that Perceval is come into a hold, there
where his sister was in the house of a vavasour that was a right worshipful man.  Each day
the damsel made great dole of the knight that was to take her, for the day was already drawing
somewhat nigh, and she knew not that he was dead.  Full often lamented she the Widow Lady her
mother, that in like sort made great dole for her daughter.  The vavasour comforted the damsel
right sweetly and longed for her brother Perceval, but little thought he that he was so near
him.  And Perceval is come to the hold all armed, and alighteth at the mounting-stage before
the hall.  The vavasour cometh to meet him, and marvelleth much who he is, for the more part
believed that he was one of Aristor's knights.

"Sir," saith the vavasour, "Welcome may you be!"

"Good adventure may you have, Sir!" saith Perceval.  He holdeth Aristor's head in his hand
by the hair, whereof the vavasour marvelled much that he should carry a knight's head in such-wise.
Perceval cometh to the master-chamber of the hall, where his sister was, that bewailed her
right sore.

X.

"Damsel," saith he to his sister, "Weep not, for your wedding hath failed.  You may know it
well by this token!"

He throweth the head of Aristor before her on the ground, then saith unto her: "Behold here
the head of him that was to take you!"

The damsel heareth Perceval her brother that was armed, and thereby she knoweth him again.
She leapeth up and maketh him the greatest joy that ever damsel made to knight.  She knoweth
not what to do.  So joyful is she, that all have pity on her that see her of her weeping for
the joy that she maketh of her brother. The story saith that they sojourned therewithin and
that the vavasour showed them much honour.  The damsel made cast the knight's head into a river
that ran round about the hold. The vavasour was right glad of his death for the great felony
that he had in him, and for that needs must the damsel die in less than a year and she had
espoused him.

XI.

When Perceval had been therein as long as it pleased him, he thanked the vavasour much of the
honour he had done him and his sister, and departed, he and his sister along with him on the
mule whereon she had been brought thither.  Perceval rode so long on his journeys that he is
come to Camelot and findeth his mother in great dole for her daughter that should be Queen,
for she thought surely that never should she see her more.  Full sorrowful was she moreover
of her brother, the King Hermit that had been killed in such-wise.  Perceval cometh to the
chamber where his mother was lying and might not stint of making dole. He taketh his sister
by the hand and cometh before her.  So soon as she knoweth him she beginneth to weep for joy,
and kisseth them one after the other.

"Fair son," saith she, "Blessed be the hour that you were born for by you all my great joy
cometh back to me!  Now well may I depart, for I have lived long enow."

"Lady," saith he, "Your life ought to be an offence to none, for to none hath it ever done
ill, but, please God, you shall not end in this place, but rather you shall end in the castle
that was your cousin's german, King Fisherman, there where is the most Holy Graal and the sacred
hallows are."

"Fair son," saith she, "You say well, and there would I fain be."

"Lady," saith he, "God will provide counsel and means whereby you shall be there; and my sister,
and she be minded to marry, will we set in good place, where she may live worshipfully."

"Certes, fair brother," saith she, "None shall I never marry, save God alone."

"Fair son," saith the Widow Lady, "The Damsel of the Car goeth to seek you, and I shall end
not until such time as she hath round you."

"Lady," saith he, "In some place will she have tidings of me and I of her."

"Fair son," saith the Lady, "The damsel is here within that the felonous knight wounded through
the arm, that carried of your sister, but she is healed."

"Lady," saith he, "I am well avenged."

He telleth her all the adventures until the time when he reconquered the castle that was his
uncle's.  He sojourned long time with his mother in the castle, and saw that the land was all
assured and peaceable.  He departed thence and took his leave, for he had not yet achieved
all that he had to do.  His mother remained long time, and his sister, at Camelot, and led
a good life and a holy.  The lady made make a chapel right rich about the sepulchre that lay
between the forest and Camelot, and had it adorned of rich vestments, and stablished a chaplain
that should sing mass there every day.  Sithence then hath the place been so builded up as
that there is an abbey there and folk of religion, and many bear witness that there it is still,
right fair. Perceval was departed from Camelot and entered into the great forest, and so rode
of a long while until he had left his mother's castle far behind, and came toward evening to
the hold of a knight that was at the head of the forest.  He harboured him therein, and the
knight showed him much honour and made him be unarmed, and brought him a robe to do on.  Perceval
seeth that the knight is a right simple man, and that he sigheth from time to time.

XII.

"Sir," saith he, "Meseemeth you are not over joyous."

"Certes, Sir," saith the knight, "I have no right to be, for a certain man slew mine own brother
towards the Deep Forest not long since, and no right have I to be glad, for a worshipful man
was he and a loyal."

"Fair Sir," saith Perceval, "Know you who slew him?"

"Fair Sir, it was one of Aristor's knights, for that he was sitting upon a horse that had been
Aristor's, and whereon another knight had slain him, and a hermit had lent him to my brother
for that the Red Knight's lion had maimed his own."

Perceval was little glad of these tidings, for that he had sent him that had been slain on
account of the horse.

"Sir," saith Perceval, "Your brother had not deserved his death, methinketh, for it was not
he that slew the knight."

"No, Sir, I know it all of a truth, but another, that slew the Red Knight of the Deep Forest."

Perceval was silent thereupon.  He lay the night at the hostel and was harboured right well,
and on the morrow departed when he had taken leave.  He wandered until he came to a hermitage
there where he heard mass.  After the service, the hermit came unto him and said: "Sir," saith
he, "In this forest are knights all armed that are keeping watch for the knight that slew Aristor
and the Red Knight and his lion as well.  Wherefore they meet no knight in this forest but
they are minded to slay him for the knight that slew these twain."

"Sir," saith Perceval, "God keep me from meeting such folk as would do me evil."

XIII.

With that he departed from the hermitage and took leave of the hermit, and rideth until that
he is come into the forest and espieth the knight that sitteth on Aristor's horse for that
he hath slain the other knight.  A second knight was with him.  They abide when they see Perceval.

"By my head," saith one of them, "This same shield bare he that slew Aristor, as it was told
us, and, like enough, it may be he."

They come toward him, full career.  Perceval seeth them coming, and forgetteth not his spurs,
but rather cometh against them the speediest he may.  The two knights smote him upon the shield
and brake their spears.  Perceval overtaketh him that sitteth on Aristor's horse and thrusteth
an ell's length of his spear through his body and so overthroweth him dead.

XIV.

After that, he cometh to the other knight, that fain would have fled, and smiteth off the shoulder
close to his side, and he fell dead by the side of the other.  He taketh both twain of their
destriers, and knotteth the reins together and driveth them before him as far as the house
of the hermit, that had issued forth of his hermitage.  He delivered unto him the horse of
Aristor and the other of the knight that he had sent thither.

"Sir," saith Perceval, "Well I know that and you shall see any knight that hath need of it
and shall ask you, you will lend him one of these horses, for great courtesy is it to aid a
worshipful man when one seeth him in misfortune."

"Sir," saith the hermit, "But now since, were here three knights. So soon as they knew that
the two were dead whose horses you had delivered unto me, they departed, fleeing the speediest
they might.  I praised them much of their going, and told them they did well not to die on
such occasion, for that the souls of knights that die under arms are nigher to Hell than to
Paradise."

XV.

Perceval, that never was without sore toil and travail so long as he lived, departed from the
hermitage and went with great diligence right through the midst of the forest, and met a knight
that came a great gallop over against him.  He knew Perceval by the shield that he bare.

"Sir," saith he, "I come from the Castle of the Black Hermit, there where you will find the
Damsel of the Car as soon as you arrive, wherefore she sendeth you word by me that you speed
your way and go to her to ask for the chess-board that was taken away from before Messire Gawain,
or otherwise never again will you enter into the castle you have won.  Sir," saith he, "Haste,
moreover, on account of a thing most pitiful that I heard in this forest.  I heard how a knight
was leading a damsel against her will, beating her with a great scourge.  I passed by the launde
on the one side and he on the other, so that I espied him through the underwood that was between
us; but it seemed me that the damsel was bemoaning her for the son of the Widow Lady that had
given her back her castle, and the knight said that for love of him he would put her into the
Serpent's pit.  An old knight and a priest went after the knight to pray him have mercy on
the damsel, but so cruel is he, that so far from doing so, he rather waxed sore wroth for that
they prayed it of him, and made cheer and semblant as though he would have slain them."

The knight departed from Perceval and taketh leave and Perceval goeth along the way that the
knight had come, thinking that he would go after the damsel for he supposeth certainly that
it is she to whom he gave back her castle, and would fain know what knight it is that entreateth
her in such fashion.  He hath ridden until he is come into the deepest of the forest and the
thickest. He bideth awhile and listeneth and heareth the voice of the damsel, that was in a
great valley where the Serpent's pit was, wherein the knight was minded to set her.  She cried
right loud for mercy, and wept, and the knight gave her great strokes of the scourge to make
her be still.  Perceval had no will to tarry longer, but rather cometh thither as fast as he may.

XVI.

So soon as the damsel seeth Perceval, she knoweth him again.  She claspeth her two hands together
and saith, "Ha, Sir, for God's sake have mercy!  Already have you given me back the castle
whereof this knight would reave me."

The horse whereon Perceval sat, the knight knew him.

"Sir," saith he, "This horse was the horse of Messire the Red Knight of the Deep Forest!  Now
at last know I that it was you that slew him!"

"It may well be," saith Perceval, "And if that I slew him, good right had I to do so, for he
had cut off the head of a son of mine uncle, the which head this damsel carried of a long time."

"By my head," saith the knight, "Sith that you slew him, you are my mortal enemy!"

So he draweth off in the midst of the launde and Perceval likewise, and then they come together
as fast as their horses may carry them, and either giveth other great buffets in the midst
of their breast with their spears the most they may.  Perceval smiteth the knight so passing
hard that he overthroweth him to the ground right over the croup of his horse, and in the fall
that he made, he to-brake him the master-bone of his leg so that he might not move.  And Perceval
alighteth to the ground and cometh where the knight lay.  And he crieth him mercy that he slay
him not.  And Perceval telleth him he need not fear death, nor that he is minded to slay him
in such plight as he is, but that like as he was fain to make the damsel do he will make him
do.  He maketh alight the other old knight and the priest, then maketh the knight be carried
to the Pit of the Serpent and the worms, whereof was great store.  The pit was dark and deep.
When that the knight was therein he might not live long for the worms that were there.  The
damsel thanked Perceval much of this goodness and of the other that he had done her. She departeth
and returneth again to her castle, and was assured therein on all sides, nor never thereafter
had she dread of no knight, for the cruel justice that Perceval had done on this one.

XVII.

The son of the Widow Lady of his good knighthood knoweth not how to live without travail. 
He well knoweth that when he hath been at the Black Hermit's castle, he will in some measure
have achieved his task. But many another thing behoveth him to do tofore, and little toil he
thinketh it, whereof shall God be well pleased.  He hath ridden so far one day and another,
that he came into a land where he met knights stout and strong there where God was neither
believed in nor loved, but where rather they adored false images and false Lord-Gods and devils
that made themselves manifest.  He met a knight at the entrance of a forest.

"Ha, Sir!" saith he to Perceval, "Return you back!  No need is there for you to go further,
for the folk of this island are not well-believers in God.  I may not pass through the land
but by truce only.  The Queen of this land was sister of the King of Oriande, that Lancelot
killed in the battle and all his folk, and seized his land, wherein all the folk were misbelievers.
Now throughout all the land they believe in the Saviour of the World. Thereof is she passing
sorrowful, and hateth all them that believe in the New Law, insomuch as that she would not
look upon any that believed, and prayed to her gods that never might she see none until such
time as the New Law should be overthrown; and God, that hath power to do this, blinded her
forthwith. Now she supposeth that the false gods wherein she believeth have done this, and
saith that when the New Law shall fall, she will have her sight again by the renewal of these
gods, and by their virtue, nor, until this hour, hath she no desire to see.  And I tell you
this," saith the knight, "because I would not that you should go thither as yet, for that I
misdoubt of your being troubled thereby."

"Sir, Gramercy," saith Perceval, "But no knighthood is there so fair as that which is undertaken
to set forward the Law of God, and for Him ought one to make better endeavour than for all
other.  In like manner as He put His body in pain and travail for us, so ought each to put
his own for Him."

He departeth from the knight, and was right joyous of this that he heard him say that Lancelot
had won a kingdom wherein he had done away the false Law.  But and he knew the tidings that
the King had put him in prison, he would not have been glad at all, for Lancelot was of his
lineage and was therefore good knight, and for this he loved him right well.

XVIII.

Perceval rideth until nightfall, and findeth a great castle fortified with a great drawbridge,
and there were tall ancient towers within.  He espied at the door a squire that had the weight
of a chain on his neck, and at the other end the chain was fixed to a great bulk of iron. 
The chain was as long as the length of the bridge.  Then cometh he over against Perceval when
he seeth him coming.

"Sir," saith he, "Meseemeth you believe in God?"

"Fair friend, so do I, the best I may."

"Sir, for God's sake, enter not this castle!"

"Wherefore, fair friend?" saith Perceval.

"Sir," saith he, "I will tell you.  I am Christian, even as are you, and I am thrall within
there and guard this gate, as you see.  But it is the most cruel castle that I know, and it
is called the Raving Castle.  There be three knights within there, full young and comely, but
so soon as they see a knight of the New Law, forthwith are they out of their senses, and all
raving mad, so that nought may endure between them.  Moreover, there is within one of the fairest
damsels that saw I ever.  She guardeth the knights so soon as they begin to rave, and so much
they dread her that they durst not disobey her commandment in aught that she willeth, for many
folk would they evilly entreat were it not for her.  And for that I am their thrall they put
up with me, and I have no fear of them, but many is the Christian knight that hath come in
hither that never hath issued hence."

"Fair sweet friend," saith Perceval, "I will enter in thither and I may, for I should not know
this day how to go elsewhither, and true it is that greater power hath God than the devil."

He entereth into the castle and alighteth in the midst of the courtyard.

XIX.

The damsel was at the windows of the hall, that was of passing great beauty.  She cometh down
as soon as she may, and seeth Perceval come in and the cross on his shield, and knoweth well
thereby that he is Christian.

"Ha, Sir, for God's sake," saith she, "Come not up above, for there be three of the comeliest
knights that ever were seen that are playing at tables and at dice in a chamber, and they are
brothers-german.  They will all go out of their senses so soon as they shall see you!"

XX.

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "Please God, so shall they not, and such a miracle is good to see,
for it is only right that all they who will not believe in God should be raving mad when they
see the things that come of Him."

Perceval goeth up into the hall, all armed, for all that the damsel saith.  She followeth him
as fast as she may.  The three knights espied Perceval all armed and the cross on his shield,
and forthwith leapt up and were beside themselves.  They rolled their eyes and tore themselves
and roared like devils.  There were axes and swords in the hall that they go to lay hold on,
and they are fain to leap upon Perceval, but no power have they to do so, for such was the
will of God.  When they saw that they might not come a-nigh him, they ran either on other and
so slew themselves between them, nor would they stint their fighting together for the damsel.
Perceval beheld the miracle of these folks that were thus killed, and the damsel that made
right great dole thereof.

"Ha, damsel," saith he, "Weep not, but repent you of this false belief, for they that are unwilling
to believe in God shall die like mad folks and devils!"

Perceval made the squires that were there within bear the bodies out of the hall, and made
them be cast into a running water, and straightway slew all the other, for that they were not
minded to believe.  The castle was all emptied of the misbelieving folk save only the damsel
and those that waited upon her, and the Christian thrall that guarded the gate.  Perceval set
him forth of the chain, then led him up into the hall and made him disarm him.  He found sundry
right rich robes. The damsel, that was of right great beauty, looked at him and saw that he
was a full comely knight, and well pleased she was with him.  She honoured him in right great
sort, but she might not forget the three knights that were her brothers, and made sore dole
for them.

XXI.

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "Nought availeth it to make this dole, but take comfort on some other
manner."

Perceval looked at the hall from one end to the other and saw that it was right rich, and the
damsel, in whom was full great beauty, stinted of making dole to look at Perceval.  She seeth
that he is comely knight and gentle and tall and well furnished of good conditions, wherefore
he pleaseth her much, and forthwith beginneth she to love him, and saith to herself that, so
he would leave his God for the god in whom she believed, right glad would she be thereof, and
would make him lord of her castle, for it seemed her that better might she not bestow it, and
sith that her brothers are dead, there may be no bringing of them back, and therefore better
would it be to forget her dole.  But little knew she Perceval's thought, for had she known
that which he thinketh, she would have imagined not this; for, and had she been Christian he
might not have been drawn to love her in such sort as she thinketh, sith that Josephus telleth
us that never did he lose his virginity for woman, but rather died virgin and chaste and clean
of his body.  In this mind was she still, nor never might she refrain her heart from him. 
Thinketh she rather that, and he knew she was minded to love him, right joyous would he be
thereof, for that she is of so passing beauty.  Perceval asketh the damsel what she hath in
her thought?

"Sir," saith she, "Nought think I but only good and you will."

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "Never, please God, shall there be hindrance of me but that you renounce
this evil Law and believe in the good."

"Sir," saith she, "Do you renounce yours for love of me, and I will do your commandment and
your will."

XXII.

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "Nought availeth to tell me this.  Were you man like as you are woman,
your end would have come with the others. But, please God, your tribulation shall tend itself
to good."

"Sir," saith she, "So you are willing to promise me that you will love me like as knight ought
to love damsel, I am well inclined to believe in your God."

"Damsel, I promise you as I am a Christian that so you are willing to receive baptism, I will
love you as he that firmly believeth in God ought to love damsel."

"Sir," saith she, "I ask no more of you."

She biddeth send for a holy man, a hermit that was in the forest appurtenant, and right gladly
came he when he heard the tidings. They held her up and baptized her, both her and her damsels
with her. Perceval held her at the font.  Josephus witnesseth us in this history that she had
for name Celestre.  And great joy made she of her baptism, and her affections turned she unto
good.  The hermit remained there with her, and taught her to understand the firm believe, and
did the service of Our Lord.  The damsel was of right good life and right holy, and ended thereafter
in many good works.

XXIII.

Perceval departed from the castle, and gave thanks to Our Lord and praise, that He hath allowed
him to conquer a castle so cruel and to attorn it to the Law.  He went his way a great pace,
all armed, until he came into a country wherein was great grief being made, and the more part
said that he was come that should destroy their Law, for that already had he won their strongest
castle. He is come towards an ancient castle that was at the head of a forest.  He looketh
and seeth at the entrance of the gateway a full great throng of folk.  He seeth a squire come
forth thence, and asketh him unto whom belongeth the castle.

"Sir," saith he, "It is Queen Jandree's, that hath made her be brought before her gate with
the folk you see yonder, for she hath heard tell how the knights of the Raving Castle are dead,
and another knight that hath conquered the castle hath made the damsel be baptized, wherefore
much she marvelleth how this may be.  She is in much dread of losing her land, for her brother
Madeglant of Oriande is dead, so that she may no longer look to none for succour, and she hath
been told how the knight that conquered the Raving Castle is the Best Knight of the World,
and that none may endure against him.  For this doubtance and fear of him she is minded to
go to one of her own castles that is somewhat stronger."

Perceval departeth from the squire and rideth until they that were at the entrance of the gateway
espied him.  They saw the Red Cross that he bare on his shield, and said to the Queen, "Lady,
a Christian knight is coming into this castle."

"Take heed," saith she, "that it be not he that is about to overthrow our Law!"

Perceval cometh thither and alighteth, and cometh before the Queen all armed.  The Queen asketh
what he seeketh.

XXIV.

"Lady," saith he, "Nought seek I save good only to yourself so you hinder it not."

"You come," saith she, "from the Raving Castle, there where three brothers are slain, whereof
is great loss."

"Lady," saith he, "At that castle was I, and now fain would I that your own were at the will
of Jesus Christ, in like manner as is that."

"By my head," saith she, "And your Lord hath so great power as is said, so will it be."

"Lady, His virtue and His puissance are far greater than they say."

"That would I fain know," saith she, "presently, and I am fain to pray you that you depart
not from me until that it hath been proven."

Perceval granteth it gladly.  She returned into her castle and Perceval with her.  When he
was alighted he went up into the hall.  They that were within marvelled them much that she
should thus give consent, for never, sithence that she had been blind, might she allow no knight
of the New Law to be so nigh her, and made slay all them that came into her power, nor might
she never see clear so long as she had one of them before her.  Now is her disposition altered
in such sort as that she would fain she might see clear him that hath come in, for she hath
been told that he is the comeliest knight of the world and well seemeth to be as good as they
witness of him.

XXV.

Perceval remained there gladly for that he saw the lady's cruelty was somewhat slackened, and
it seemed him that it would be great joy and she were willing to turn to God, and they that
are within there, for well he knoweth that so she should hold to the New Law, all they of the
land would be of the same mind.  When Perceval had lain the night at the castle, the Lady on
the morrow sent for all the more powerful of her land, and came forth of her chamber into the
hall where Perceval was, seeing as clear as ever she had seen aforetime.

"Lords," saith she, "Hearken ye all, for now will I tell you the truth like as it hath befallen
me.  I was lying in my bed last night, and well know ye that I saw not a whit, and made my
orisons to our gods that they would restore me my sight.  It seemed me they made answer that
they had no power so to do, but that I should make be slain the knight that was arrived here,
and that and I did not, sore wroth would they be with me.  And when I had heard their voices
say that nought might they avail me as for that I had prayed of them, I remembered me of the
Lord in whom they that hold the New Law believe.  And I prayed Him right sweetly that, and
so it were that He had such virtue and such puissance as many said, He would make me see clear,
so as that I might believe in Him.  At that hour I fell on sleep, and meseemed that I saw one
of the fairest Ladies in the world, and she was delivered of a Child therewithin, and He had
about Him a great brightness of light like it were the sun shone at right noonday."

XXVI.

"When the Child was born, so passing fair was He and so passing gentle and of so sweet semblant
that the looks of Him pleased me well; and meseemed that at His deliverance there was a company
of folk the fairest that were seen ever, and they were like as it had been birds and made full
great joy.  And methought that an ancient man that was with Her, told me that My Lady had lost
no whit of her maidenhood for the Child.  Well pleased was I the while this thing lasted me.
It seemed me that I saw it like as I do you.  Thereafter, methought I saw a Man bound to a
stake, in whom was great sweetness and humility, and an evil folk beat Him with scourges and
rods right cruelly, so that the blood ran down thereof.  They would have no mercy on Him. 
Of this might I not hold myself but that I wept for pity of Him.  Therewithal I awoke and marvelled
much whence it should come and what it might be. But in anyway it pleased me much that I had
seen it.  It seemed me after this, that I saw the same Man that had been bound to the stake
set upon a cross, and nailed thereon right grievously and smitten in the side with a spear,
whereof had I such great pity that needs must I weep of the sore pain that I saw Him suffer.
I saw the Lady at the feet of the cross, and knew her again that I had seen delivered of the
Child, but none might set in writing the great dole that she made.  On the other side of the
cross was a man that seemed not joyful, but he recomforted the Lady the fairest he might. 
And another folk were there that collected His blood in a most holy Vessel that one of them
held for it."

XXVII.

"Afterward, methought I saw Him taken down of hanging on the cross, and set in a sepulchre
of stone.  Thereof had I great pity for, so long as meseemed I saw Him thus never might I withhold
me from weeping.  And so soon as the pity came into my heart, and the tears into my eyes, I
had my sight even as you see.  In such a Lord as this ought one to believe, for He suffered
death when He might lightly have avoided it had He so willed, but He did it to save His people.
In this Lord I will that ye all believe, and so renounce our false gods, for they be devils
and therefore may not aid us nor avail us.  And he that will not believe, him will I make be
slain or die a shameful death."

The Lady made her be held up and baptized, and all them that would not do the same she made
be destroyed and banished.  This history telleth us that her name was Salubre.  She was good
lady and well believed in God, and so holy life led she thereafter that in a hermitage she
died. Perceval departed from the castle right joyous in his heart of the Lady and her people
that believed in the New Law.

BRANCH XXXIII.

TITLE I.

Afterward, this title telleth us that Meliot of Logres was departed from Castle Perilous sound
and whole, by virtue of the sword that Lancelot had brought him, and of the cloth that he took
in the Chapel Perilous.  But sore sorrowful was he of the tidings he had heard that Messire
Gawain was in prison and he knew not where, but he had been borne on hand that two knights
that were kinsmen of them of the Raving Castle that had slain one another, had shut him in
prison on account of Perceval that had won the castle.  Now, saith Meliot of Logres, never
shall he have ease again until he knoweth where Messire Gawain is.  He rideth amidst a forest,
and prayeth God grant him betimes to hear witting of Messire Gawain.  The forest was strange
and gloomy. He rode until nightfall but might not find neither hold nor hermitage.  He looketh
right amidst the forest before him and seeth a damsel sitting that bemoaneth herself full sore.
The moon was dark and the place right foul of seeming and the forest gloomy of shadow.

"Ha, damsel, and what do you here at this hour?"

"Sir," saith she, "I may not amend it, the more is my sorrow. For the place is more perilous
than you think.  Look," saith she, "up above, and you will see the occasion wherefore I am here."

Meliot looketh and seeth two knights all armed hanging up above the damsel's head.  Thereof
much marvelleth he.

"Ha, damsel," saith he, "Who slew these knights so foully?"

"Sir," saith she, "The Knight of the Galley that singeth in the sea."

"And wherefore hath he hanged them in such wise?"

"For this," saith she, "that they believed in God and His sweet Mother. And so behoveth me
to watch them here for forty days, that none take them down of hanging, for and they were taken
hence he would lose his castle, he saith, and would cut off my head."

"By my head," saith Meliot, "Such watch is foul shame to damsel, and no longer shall you remain
here."

"Ha, Sir," saith the damsel, "Then shall I be a dead woman, for he is of so great cruelty that
none scarce might protect me against him."

II.

"Damsel," saith Meliot, "Foul shame would it be and I left here these knights in such wise
for the reproach of other knights."

Meliot made them graves with his sword, and so buried them the best he might.

"Sir," saith the damsel, "And you take not thought to protect me, the knight will slay me.
To-morrow, when he findeth not the knights, he will search all the forest to look for me."

Meliot and the damsel together go their way through the forest until they come to a chapel
where was wont to be a hermit that the Knight of the Galley had destroyed.  He helpeth down
the damsel of his horse, and afterward they entered into the chapel, where was a great brightness
of light, and a damsel was there that kept watch over a dead knight. Meliot marvelleth him much.

"Damsel," said Meliot, "When was this knight killed?"

"Sir, yesterday the Knight of the Galley slew him on the seashore, wherefore behoveth me thus
keep watch, and in the morning will he come hither or ever he go to the castle where Messire
Gawain hath to-morrow to fight with a lion, all unarmed, and my Lady, that is mistress both
of me and of this damsel you have brought hither, will likewise be brought to-morrow to the
place where the lion is to slay Messire Gawain, and she in like sort will be afterward delivered
to the lion and she renounce not the New Law wherein the knight that came from Raving Castle,
whereof she is lady, hath made her believe; and we ourselves shall be in like manner devoured
along with her.  But this damsel would still have taken respite of my death and she had still
kept guard over the knights that were so foully hanged above her. Natheless, sith that you
have taken them down from where they were hanging, you have done a right good deed, whatsoever
betide, for the Lord of the Red Tower will give his castle to the knight for this."

Meliot is right joyous of the tidings that he hath heard of Messire Gawain that he is still
on live, for well knoweth he, sith that the Knight of the Galley will come by the chapel there,
that he will come thither or ever Messire Gawain doth battle with the lion.

"Sir," saith the damsel of the chapel, "For God's sake, take this damsel to a place of safety,
for the knight will be so wood mad of wrath and despite so soon as he cometh hither, that he
will be fain to smite off her head forthwith, and of yourself also have I great fear."

III.

"Damsel," saith Meliot, "The knight is but a man like as am I."

"Yea, Sir, but stronger is he and more cruel than seem you to be."

Meliot was in the chapel the night until the morrow, and heard the knight coming like a tempest,
and he brought with him the lady of the castle and reviled her from time to time, and Meliot
seeth him come, and a dwarf that followeth after him a great pace.  He crieth out to him: "Sir,
behold there the disloyal knight through whom you have lost your castle.  Now haste! Avenge
yourself of him!  After that will we go to the death of Messire Gawain?"

Meliot, so soon as he espieth him, mounteth and maketh his arms ready.

"Is it you," saith the Knight of the Galley, "that hath trespassed on my demesne and taken
down my knights?"

"By my head, yours were they not!  Rather were they the knights of God, and foul outrage have
you done herein when you slew them so shamefully."

He goeth toward the knight without more words, and smiteth him so passing strong amidst the
breast that he pierceth the habergeon and thrusteth all the iron of his spear into his body
and afterward draweth it back to him with a great wrench.  And the knight smiteth him so hard
on his shield that he maketh an ell's length pass beyond, for right wroth was he that he was
wounded. The dwarf crieth to him, "Away, then! The knight endureth against you that have slain
so many of them!"

The Knight of the Galley waxeth wood wrath.  He taketh his career, and cometh as fast as his
horse may carry him, and smiteth Meliot so strongly that he breaketh his spear in such sort
that he maketh both him and his horse stagger.  But Meliot catcheth him better, for he thrusteth
the spear right through his body and hurleth against him at the by-passing with such stoutness
and force that he maketh him fall dead to the ground from his horse.  The dwarf thought to
escape, but Meliot smote off his head, whereof the damsels gave him great thanks, for many
a mischief had he wrought them.

IV.

Meliot buried the knight that he found in the chapel dead, then told the damsels that he might
abide no longer, but would go succour Messire Gawain and he might.  The damsels were horsed
to their will, for one had the horse of the knight that was slain and the other the horse of
the dwarf.  The other damsel was come upon a mule, and they said that they would go back, for
the country was made all safe by the death of the knight.  They thanked Meliot much, for they
say truly that he hath rescued them from death.  Meliot departeth from the damsels and goeth
right amidst the forest as he that would most fain hear tidings of Messire Gawain.  When he
had ridden of a long space, he met a knight that was coming all armed at great pace.

"Sir Knight," saith he to Meliot, "Can you tell me tidings of the Knight of the Galley?"

"What have you to do therein?" saith Meliot.

"Sir, the Lord of the Red Tower hath made bring Messire Gawain into a launde of this forest,
and there, all unarmed, must he do battle with a lion.  So my lord is waiting for the Knight
of the Galley, that is to bring two damsels thither that the lion will devour when he shall
have slain Messire Gawain."

"Will the battle be presently?" saith Meliot.

"Yea, Sir," saith the knight, "Soon enough betimes, for Messire Gawain hath already been led
thither and there bound to a stake until such time as the lion shall be come.  Then will he
be unbound, but even then two knights all armed will keep watch on him.  But tell me tidings
of the Knight of the Galley, and you have seen him?"

"Go forward," saith he, "and you will hear tidings of him."

Meliot departeth thereupon, a great gallop, and cometh nigh the launde whereunto Messire Gawain
had been brought.  He espied the two knights that kept guard over him, and if that Messire
Gawain were in fear, little marvel was it, for he thought that his end had come.  Meliot espied
him bound to an iron staple with cords about the body on all sides so that he might not move.
Meliot hath great pity thereof in his heart, and saith to himself that he will die there sooner
than Messire Gawain shall die.  He clappeth spurs to his horse when he cometh nigh the knights,
and overtaketh one of them with such a rush that he thrusteth his spear right through his body,
and beareth him down dead. The other was fain to go to the castle for succour when he saw his
fellow dead.  Meliot slew him forthwith.  He cometh to Messire Gawain, and so unbindeth him
and cutteth the cords wherewith he is bound.

"Sir," saith he, "I am Meliot of Logres, your knight."

V.

When Messire Gawain felt himself unbound, no need to ask whether he had joy thereof.  The tidings
were come to the Red Court that Queen Jandree was christened and baptized, and that the Knight
was come that had such force and puissance in him that none might endure against him for the
God in whom he believed, and they knew likewise that the Knight of the Galley was dead, and
Messire Gawain unbound and the knights that guarded him slain.  They say that there may they
not abide, so they depart from the castle and say that they will cross the sea to protect their
bodies, for that there they may have no safety.

VI.

When Meliot had delivered Messire Gawain he made him be armed with the arms, such as they were,
of one of the knights he had slain.  Messire Gawain mounted on a horse such as pleased him,
and right great joy had he at heart.  They marvel much how it is that they of the castle have
not come after them, but they know not their thought nor how they are scared.

"Meliot," saith Messire Gawain, "You have delivered me from death this time and one other,
nor never had I acquaintance with any knight that hath done so much for me in so short a time
as have you."

They departed the speediest they might and rode nigh enow to the castle, but they heard none
moving within nor any noise, nor saw they none issue forth, and much marvelled they that none
should come after them.  They rode until they came to the head of the forest and caught sight
of the sea that was nigh enough before them, and saw that there was a great clashing of arms
at the brink of the sea.  A single knight was doing battle with all them that would fain have
entered into a ship, and held stour so stiffly against them that he toppled the more part into
the sea. They went thither as fast as they might, and when they drew nigh to the ship they
knew that it was Perceval by his arms and his shield.  Or ever they reached it, the ship was
put off into the midst of the sea, wherein he was launched of his own great hardiment, and
they went on fighting against him within the ship.

"Meliot," saith Messire Gawain, "See you, there is Perceval the Good Knight, and now may we
say of a truth that he is in sore peril of death; for that ship, save God bethink Him thereof,
shall arrive in such manner and in such a place as that never more shall we have no witting
of him, and, so he perish for ever, no knight on live may have power to set forward the Law
of our Lord."

VII.

Messire Gawain seeth the ship going further away, and Perceval that defendeth himself therein
against them that set upon him. Right heavy is he that he came not sooner, or ever the ship
had put off from the land.  He turneth back, he and Meliot together, and right sorrowful was
Messire Gawain of Perceval, for they knew not in what land he might arrive, and, might he have
followed, right gladly would he have gone after him to aid him.  They have ridden until they
meet a knight. Messire Gawain asketh him whence he cometh, and he saith from King Arthur's court.

"What tidings can you tell us thereof?" saith Messire Gawain.

"Sir, bad enough!" saith he.  "King Arthur hath neglected all his knights for Briant of the
Isles, and hath put one of his best knights in prison."

"What is his name?" saith Messire Gawain.

"Sir, he is called Lancelot of the Lake.  He had reconquered all the islands that had been
reft of King Arthur, and slain King Madeglant, and conquered the land of Oriande that he turned
to the belief of the Saviour of the World, and, so soon as he had conquered his enemies, King
Arthur sent for him forthwith and straightway put him in his prison by the counsel of Briant
of the Isles.  But King Arthur will have a surfeit of friends betimes; for King Claudas hath
assembled his folk in great plenty to reconquer the kingdom of Oriande and come back upon King
Arthur by the counsel of Briant of the Isles that betrayeth the King, for he hath made him
his Seneschal and commander of all his land."

"Sir Knight," saith Messire Gawain, "Needs must the King miscarry that setteth aside the counsel
of his good knights for the leasings of a traitor."

Thereupon the knight departed from Messire Gawain.  Right heavy is he of this that he hath
said, that the King hath put Lancelot in prison. Never tofore did he aught whereby he wrought
so much to blame.

BRANCH XXXIV.

TITLE I.

Hereupon the story is silent of Messire Gawain and Meliot and speaketh of King Claudas that
hath assembled a great folk by the counsel of Briant of the Isles to come into the land of
King Arthur, for he knoweth that it is disgarnished of the good knights that wont there to
be, and he knoweth all the secret plottings of the court and what power King Arthur hath withal.
He draweth toward his land the nighest he may, and hath won back the kingdom of Oriande all
at his will.  But they of Albanie still hold against him and challenge the land the best they
may. Tidings thereof come to the court of King Arthur, and they of the country sent him word
that so he send them not succour betimes they will yield up the land to King Claudas, and oftentimes
they long after Lancelot, and say that so they had a defender like him, the islands would be
all at peace.  The King sent Briant of the Isles thither many times, that ever incontinent
returned thence discomfit, but never sent he thither him that should have power to protect
the land against King Claudas.  King Arthur was sore troubled, for no witting had he of Messire
Gawain nor Messire Ywain nor of others whereby his court had use of right to be feared and
dreaded and of high renown throughout all other kingdoms.  The King was one day in the hall
at Cardoil, right heavy; and he was at one of the windows, and remembered him of the Queen
and of his good knights that he wont to see oftener at court, whereof the more part were dead,
and of the adventures that wont to befall therein whereof they saw none no longer. Lucan the
Butler seeth him right heavy and draweth nigh unto him quietly.

II.

"Sir," saith he, "Meseemeth you are without joy."

"Lucan," said the King, "Joy hath been somewhat far from me sithence that the Queen hath been
dead, and Gawain and the other knights have held aloof from my court so that they deign come
hither no longer. Moreover, King Claudas warreth upon me and conquereth my lands so that no
power have I to rescue me for default of my knights."

"Sir," saith Lucan, "Herein is there nought whereof you have right to accuse any save yourself
alone.  For you have done evil unto him that hath served you, and good unto them that are traitors
to you.  You have one of the best knights in the world and the most loyal in your prison, wherefore
all the other hold them aloof from your court.  Lancelot had served you well by his good will
and by his good knighthood, nor never had he done you any disservice whereof you might in justice
have done him such shame; nor never will your enemies withhold them from you nor have dread
of you save only through him and other your good knights. And know of a truth that Lancelot
and Messire Gawain are the best of your court."

"Lucan," saith King Arthur, "So thought I ever again to have affiance in him, I would make
him be set forth of my prison, for well I know that I have wrought discourteously toward him;
and Lancelot is of a great heart, wherefore would he not slacken of his despite for that which
hath been done unto him until such time as he should be avenged thereof, for no king is there
in the world, how puissant soever he be, against whom he durst not well maintain his right."

III.

"Sir," saith Lucan, "Lancelot well knoweth that and you had taken no counsel but your own,
he would not have been thus entreated, and I dare well say that never so long as he liveth
will he misdo in aught towards you, for he hath in him much valour and loyalty, as many a time
have you had good cause to know.  Wherefore, and you would fain have aid and succour and hold
your realm again, behoveth you set him forth of the prison, or otherwise never will you succeed
herein, and, if you do not so, you will lose your land by treason."

The King held by the counsel of Lucan the Butler.  He made bring Lancelot before him into the
midst of the hall, that was somewhat made ean of his being in prison, but he bore him as he
wont, nor might none look at him to whom he seemed not to be good knight. "Lancelot," saith
the King, "How is it with you?"

"Sir," saith he, "It hath been ill with me long time, but, please God, it shall be better hereafter."

"Lancelot," saith the King, "I repent me of this that I have done to you, and I have bethought
me much of the good services I have found in you, wherefore I will do you amends thereof at
your will, in such sort as that the love between us shall be whole as it was tofore."

IV.

"Sir," saith Lancelot, "Your amends love I much, and your love more than of any other; but
never, please God, will I misdo you for aught that you may have done to me, for it is well
known that I have not been in prison for no treason I have done, nor for no folly, but only
for that it was your will.  Never will it be reproached me as of shame, and, sith that you
have done me nought whereof I may have blame nor reproach, my devoir it is to withhold me from
hating you; for you are my lord, and if that you do me ill, without flattery of myself the
ill you do me is your own; but, please God, whatsoever you have done me, never shall my aid
fail you, rather, everywhere will I set my body in adventure for your love, in like sort as
I have done many a time."

V.

In the court of King Arthur was right great joy of the most part when they heard that Lancelot
was set forth of prison, but not a whit rejoiced were Briant and his folk.  The King commanded
that Lancelot should be well cared for and made whole again, and that all should be at his
commandment.  The court was all overjoyed thereof, and they said: now at last might the King
make war in good assurance.  Lancelot was foremost in the King's court and more redoubted than
was ever another of the knights.  Briant of the Isles came one day before the King.

"Sir," saith he, "Behold, here is Lancelot that wounded me in your service, wherefore I will
that he know I am his enemy."

"Briant," saith Lancelot, "And if that you deserved it tofore, well may you be sorry thereof,
and sith that you wish to be mine enemy, your friend will I not be.  For well may I deem of
your love according as I have found it in you."

"Sir," saith Briant to the King, "You are my lord, and I am one you are bound to protect. 
You know well that so rich am I in lands and so puissant in friends that I may well despise
mine enemy, nor will I not remain at your court so long as Lancelot is therein.  Say not that
I depart thence with any shame as toward myself.  Rather thus go I hence as one that will gladly
avenge me, so I have place and freedom, and I see plainly and know that you and your court
love him far better than you love me, wherefore behoveth me take thought thereof."

"Briant," saith the King, "Remain as yet, and I will make amends for you to Lancelot, and I
myself will make amends for him to you."

VI.

"Sir," saith Briant, "By the faith that I owe to you, none amends will I have of him nor other
until such time as I have drawn as much blood of his body as did he of mine, and I will well
that he know it."

With that Briant departeth from the court all wrathful, but if that Lancelot had not feared
to anger the King, Briant would not have ridden a league English or ever he had followed and
forced him to fight. Briant goeth toward the Castle of the Hard Rock, and saith that better
would it have been for the King that Lancelot were still in prison, for that such a plea will
he move against him and he may bring it to bear, as that he shall lose thereof the best parcel
of his land.  He is gone into the land of King Claudas, and saith that now at last hath he
need of his aid, for Lancelot is issued forth of the King's prison and is better loved at court
than all other, so that the King believeth in no counsel save his only.  King Claudas sweareth
unto him and maketh pledge that never will he fail him, and Briant to him again.

BRANCH XXXV.

TITLE I.

Herewithal is the story silent of Briant and talketh of Perceval, that the ship beareth away
right swiftly; but so long hath he held battle therein that every one hath he slain of them
that were in the ship save only the pilot that steereth her, for him hath he in covenant that
he will believe in God and renounce his evil Law.  Perceval is far from land so that he seeth
nought but sea only, and the ship speedeth onward, and God guideth him, as one that believeth
in Him and loveth Him and serveth Him of a good heart.  The ship ran on by night and by day
as it pleased God, until that they saw a castle and an island of the sea.  He asked his pilot
if he knew what castle it was.

"Certes," saith he, "Not I, for so far have we run that I know not neither the sea nor the stars."

They come nigh the castle, and saw four that sounded bells at the four corners of the town,
right sweetly, and they that sounded them were clad in white garments.  They are come thither.

II.

So soon as the ship had taken haven under the castle, the sea withdraweth itself back, so that
the ship is left on dry land. None were therein save Perceval, his horse, and the pilot.  They
issued forth of the ship and went by the side of the sea toward the castle, and therein were
the fairest halls and the fairest mansions that any might see ever.  He Looketh underneath
a tree that was tall and broad and seeth the fairest fountain and the clearest that any may
devise, and it was all surrounded of rich pillars, and the gravel thereof seemed to be gold
and precious stones.  Above this fountain were two men sitting, their beards and hair whiter
than driven snow, albeit they seemed young of visage.  So soon as they saw Perceval they dressed
them to meet him, and bowed down and worshipped the shield that he bare at his neck, and kissed
the cross and then the boss wherein were the hallows.

"Sir," say they, "Marvel not of this that we do, for well knew we the knight that bare this
shield tofore you.  Many a time we saw him or ever God were crucified."

Perceval marvelleth much of this that they say, for they talk of a time that is long agone.

III.

"Lords, know ye then how he was named?"

Say they, "Joseph of Abarimacie, but no cross was there on the shield before the death of Jesus
Christ.  But he had it set thereon after the crucifixion of Jesus Christ for the sake of the
Saviour that he loved so well."

Perceval took off the shield from his neck, and one of the worshipful men setteth upon it as
it were a posy of herbs that was blooming with the fairest flowers in the world.  Perceval
looketh beyond the fountain and seeth in a right fair place a round vessel like as it were
ivory, and it was so large that there was a knight within, all armed.  He looketh thereinto
and seeth the knight, and speaketh unto him many times, but never the more willeth the knight
to answer him.  Perceval looketh at him in wonderment, and cometh back to the good men and
asketh them who is this knight, and they tell him that he may know not as yet.  They lead him
to a great hall and bear his shield before him, whereof they make right great joy, and show
thereunto great worship. He seeth the hall right rich, for hall so rich and so fair had he
seen never.  It was hung about with right rich cloths of silk, and in the midst of the hall
was imaged the Saviour of the World so as He is in His majesty, with the apostles about Him,
and within were great galleries that were full of folk and seemed to be of great holiness,
and so were they, for had they not been good men they might not there have remained.

IV.

"Sir," say the two Masters to Perceval, "This house that you see here so rich, is the hall royal."

"By my faith," saith Perceval, "So ought it well to be, for never saw I none so much of worth."

He Looketh all around, and seeth the richest tables of gold and ivory that he saw ever.  One
of the Masters clappeth his hands thrice, and three and thirty men come into the hall all in
a company.  They were clad in white garments, and not one of them but had a red cross in the
midst of his breast, and they seemed to be all of an age.  As soon as they enter into the hall
they do worship to God Our Lord and set out their cups.  Then went they to wash at a great
laver of gold, and then went to sit at the tables.  The Masters made Perceval sit at the most
master-table with themselves.  They were served thereat right gloriously, and Perceval looked
about him more gladlier than he ate.

V.

And while he was thus looking, he seeth a chain of gold come down above him loaded with precious
stones, and in the midst thereof was a crown of gold.  The chain descended a great length and
held on to nought save to the will of Our Lord only.  As soon as the Masters saw it descending
they opened a great wide pit that was in the midst of the hall, so that one could see the hole
all openly.  As soon as the entrance of this pit was discovered, there issued thence the greatest
cry and most dolorous that any heard ever, and when the worshipful men hear it, they stretched
out their hands towards Our Lord and all began to weep. Perceval heareth this dolour, and marvelleth
much what it may be.  He seeth that the chain of gold descendeth thither and is there stayed
until they have well-nigh eaten, and then draweth itself again into the air and so goeth again
aloft.  But Perceval knoweth not what became thereof, and the Master covereth the pit again,
that was right grisly to see, and pitiful to hear were the voices that issued therefrom.

VI.

The Good Men rose from the tables when they had eaten, and gave thanks right sweetly to Our
Lord; and then returned thither whence they had come.

"Sir," saith the Master to Perceval, "The chain of gold that you have seen is right precious
and the crown of gold likewise.  But never may you issue forth from hence save you promise
to return so soon as you shall see the ship and the sail crossed of a red cross; otherwise
may you not depart hence."

"Tell me," saith he, "of the chain of gold and the crown, what it may be?"

"We will tell you not," saith one of the Masters, "Save you promise that which I tell you."

"Certes, Sir," saith Perceval, "I promise you faithfully, that so soon as I shall have done
that I have to do for my lady my mother and one other, that I will return hither, so I be on
live and I see your ship so marked as you say."

"Yea, be you faithful to the end herein, and you shall have the crown of gold upon your head
so soon as you return, and so shall you be seated in the throne, and shall be king of an island
that is near to this, right plenteous of all things good, for nought is there in the world
that is there lacking that is needful for man's body.  King Hermit was the king thereof that
thus hath garnished it, and for that he approved himself so well in this kingdom, and that
they who are in the island consented thereto, is he chosen to be king of a greater realm. 
Now they desire that another worshipful man be sent them for king, that shall do for them as
much good as did he, but take you good heed, sith that you will be king therein, that the island
be well garnished; for, and you garnish it not well, you will be put into the Poverty-stricken
Island, the crying whereof you have but now since heard, and the crown thereof will again be
reft from you.  For they that have been kings of the Plenteous Island and have not well approved
them, are among the folk that you saw in the Poverty-stricken Island, lacking in all things
good.  And so I tell you that King Hermit, whom you will succeed, hath sent thither a great
part of his folk.  There are the heads sealed in silver, and the heads sealed in lead, and
the bodies whereunto these heads belonged; I tell you that you must make come thither the head
both of the King and of the Queen.  But of the other I tell you that they are in the Poverty-stricken
Island.  But we know not whether they shall ever issue forth thence."

VII.

"Sir," saith Perceval, "Tell me of the knight that is all armed in the ivory vessel, who he
is, and what is the name of this castle?"

"You may not know," saith the Master, "until your return.  But tell me tidings of the most
Holy Graal, that you reconquered, is it still in the holy chapel that was King Fisherman's?"

"Yea, Sir," saith Perceval, "And the sword wherewith S. John was beheaded, and other hallows
in great plenty."

"I saw the Graal," saith the Master, "or ever Joseph, that was uncle to King Fisherman, collected
therein the blood or Jesus Christ.  Know that well am I acquainted with all your lineage, and
of what folk you were born.  For your good knighthood and for your good cleanness and for your
good valour came you in hither, for such was Our Lord's will, and take heed that you be ready
when place shall be, and time shall come, and you shall see the ship apparelled."

"Sir," saith Perceval, "Most willingly shall I return, nor never would I have sought to depart
but for my lady my mother, and for my sister, for never have I seen no place that so much hath
pleased me."

He was right well harboured the night within, and in the morning, or ever he departed, heard
a holy mass in a holy chapel the fairest that he had seen ever.  The Master cometh to him after
the mass and bringeth him a shield as white as snow.  Afterwards, he saith, "You will leave
me your shield within for token of your coming and will bear this."

"Sir," saith Perceval, "I will do your pleasure."

He hath taken leave, and so departeth from the rich mansion, and findeth the ship all apparelled,
and heareth sound the bells at his forth-going the same as at his coming.  He entereth into
the ship and the sail is set.  He leaveth the land far behind, and the pilot steereth the ship
and Our Lord God guideth and leadeth him.  The ship runneth a great speed, for far enough had
she to run, but God made her speed as He would, for He knew the passing great goodness and
worth of the knight that was within.

VIII.

God hath guided and led the ship by day and by night until that she arrived at an island where
was a castle right ancient, but it seemed not to be over-rich, rather it showed as had it been
of great lordship in days of yore.  They cast anchor, and Perceval is come toward the castle
and entereth in all armed.  He seeth the castle large, and the dwelling chambers fallen down
and the house-place roofless, and he seeth a lady sitting before the steps of an old hall.
She rose up as soon as she saw him, but she was right poorly clad.  It seemed well by her body
and her cheer and her bearing that she was a gentlewoman, and he seeth that two damsels come
with her that are young of age and are as poorly clad as is the lady.

"Sir," saith she to Perceval, "Welcome may you be.  No knight have I seen enter this castle
of a long time."

"Lady," saith Perceval, "God grant you joy and honour!"

"Sir," saith she, "Need have we thereof, for none scarce have I had this long while past."

She leadeth him into a great ancient hall that was right poorly garnished.

"Sir," saith she, "Here will you harbour you the night, and you would take in good part that
we may do and you knew the plight of this castle."

She maketh him be unarmed of a servant that was there within, and the damsels come before him
and serve him right sweetly.  The lady bringeth him a mantle to do on.

"Sir," saith she, "Within are no better garments wherewith to show you honour than this."

Perceval looketh on the damsels and hath great pity of them, for so well shapen were they of
limb and body as that nature might not have better fashioned them, and all the beauty that
may be in woman's body was in them, and all the sweetness and simpleness.

IX.

"Lady," saith Perceval, "Is this castle, then, not yours?"

"Sir," saith she, "So much is all that remaineth unto me of all my land, and you see there
my daughters of whom is it right sore pity, for nought have they but what you see, albeit gentlewomen
are they and of high lineage, but their kinsfolk are too far away, and a knight that is right
cruel hath reft us of our land sithence that my lord was dead, and holdeth a son of mine in
his prison, whereof I am right sorrowful, for he is one of the comeliest knights in the world.
He had not been knight more than four years when he took him, and now may I aid neither myself
nor other, but I have heard tell that there is a knight in the land of Wales that was the son
of Alain li Gros of the Valleys of Camelot, and he is the Best Knight in the World, and this
Alain was brother of Calobrutus, whose wife was I, and of whom I had my son and these two daughters.
This know I well, that and the Good Knight that is so near akin to them were by any adventure
to come into this island, I should have my son again, and my daughters that are disherited
would have their lands again freely, and so should I be brought out of sore pain and poverty.
I am of another lineage that is full far away, for King Ban of Benoic that is dead was mine
uncle, but he hath a son that is a right good knight as I have been told, so that and one of
these two should come nigh me in any of these islands right joyous should I be thereof."

X.

Perceval heareth that the two damsels are his uncle's daughters, and hath great pity thereof.

"Lady," saith he, "How is he named that is in prison?"

"Sir," saith she, "Galobruns, and he that holdeth him in prison is named Gohaz of the Castle
of the Whale."

"Is his castle near this, Lady?" saith he.

"Sir, there is but an arm of the sea to cross, and in all these islands of the sea is there
none that hath any puissance but he only, and so assured is he that no dread hath he of any.
For none that is in this land durst offend against him.  Sir, one thing hath he bid me do,
whereof I am sore grieved, that and I send him not one of my daughters, he hath sworn his oath
that he will reave me of my castle."

"Lady," saith Perceval, "An oath is not always kept.  To the two damsels, please God, shall
he do no shame, and right heavy am I of that he hath done already, for they were daughters
of mine uncle.  Alain li Gros was my father and Galobrutus my uncle, and many another good
man that now is dead."

XI.

When the damsels heard this, they kneeled down before him, and began to weep for joy and kiss
his hands, and pray him for God's sake have mercy on them and on their brother.  And he saith
that he will not depart from their land until he hath done all he may. He remaineth the night
in the castle and his mariner likewise. The lady made great joy of Perceval, and did him all
the honour she might.  When the morrow came they showed him the land of the King that had reft
them of their land, but the lady could not tell him where her son was in prison.  He departeth
and cometh back to his ship when he hath taken leave of the lady and the damsels, and right
glad was he to know that the damsels were so nigh to him of kin.  So he prayeth God grant him
that he may be able to give them back their land and bring them out of the poverty wherein
they are.  He roweth until that he is come under a rock, wherein was a cave at top round and
narrow and secure like as it were a little house.  Perceval looketh on that side, and seeth
a man sitting within.  He maketh the ship draw nigh the rock, then looketh and seeth the cutting
of a way that went upwards through the rock.  He is come forth of the ship and goeth up the
little path until he cometh into the little house.  He findeth within one of the comeliest
knights in the world.  He had a ring at his feet and a collar on his neck with a chain whereof
the other end was fixed by a staple into a great ledge of the rock.  He rose up over against
Perceval as soon as he saw him.

"Sir Knight," saith Perceval, "You are well made fast."

"Sir, that irketh me," saith the knight, "Better should I like myself elsewhere than here."

"You would be right," saith Perceval, "For you are in right evil plight in the midst of this
sea.  Have you aught within to eat or to drink?"

"Sir," saith he, "The daughter of the Sick Knight that dwelleth in the island hard by, sendeth
me every day in a boat as much meat as I may eat, for she hath great pity of me.  The King
that hath imprisoned me here hath reft her castles like as he hath those of my lady my mother."

"May none remove you hence?"

"Sir, in no wise, save he that set me here, for he keepeth with him the key of the lock, and
he told me when he departed hence that never more should I issue forth."

"By my head," saith Perceval, "but you shall!  And you were the son of Galobrutus, you were
the son of mine uncle," saith Perceval, "and I of yours, so that it would be a reproach to
me for evermore and I left you in this prison."

XII.

When Galobruns heareth that he is his uncle's son, great joy hath he thereof.  He would have
fallen at his feet, but Perceval would not, and said to him, "Now be well assured, for I will
seek your deliverance."

He cometh down from the rock, and so entereth the ship and roweth of a long space.  He looketh
before him and seeth a right rich island and a right plenteous, and on the other side he seeth
in a little islet a knight that is mounted up in a tall tree that was right broad with many
boughs.  There was a damsel with him, that had climbed up also for dread of a serpent, great
and evil-favoured that had issued from a hole in a mountain.  The damsel seeth Perceval's ship
coming, and crieth out to him.

"Ha, Sir," saith she, "Come to help this King that is up above, and me that am a damsel!"

"Whereof are you afeard, damsel?" saith Perceval.

"Of a great serpent, Sir," saith she, "that hath made us climb up, whereof ought I not to be
sorry, for this King hath carried me off from my father's house, and would have done me shame
of my body and this serpent had not run upon him."

"And what is the King's name, damsel?" saith Perceval.

"Sir, he is called Gohaz of the Castle of the Whale.  This great land is his own that is so
plenteous, and other lands enow that he hath reft of my father and of other."

The King had great shame of this that the damsel told him, and made answer never a word.  Perceval
understandeth that it was he that held his cousin in prison, and is issued from the ship forthwith,
sword drawn.  The serpent seeth him, and cometh toward him, jaws yawning, and casteth forth
fire and flame in great plenty.  Perceval thrusteth his sword right through the gullet.

"Now may you come down," saith he to the King.

"Sir," saith he, "The key of a chain wherewith a certain knight is bound hath fallen, and the
serpent seized it."

Perceval rendeth open the throat and findeth the key forthwith, all red-hot with the fire of
the serpent.  The King cometh down, that hath no dread of aught, but cometh, rather, as he
ought, to thank Perceval of the goodness he had done him, and Perceval seizeth him between
his arms and beareth him away to the ship.

XIII.

"Sir Knight," saith Gohaz, "Take heed what you do, for I am King of this land."

"Therefore," saith Perceval, "I do it.  For, had it been another I should do it not."

"Ha, Sir," saith the damsel, "Leave me not here to get forth as I may, but help me until that
I shall be in the house of my father, the Sick Knight, that is sore grieved on my account."

Perceval understandeth that it is the damsel of whom Galobruns spake such praise.  He goeth
to bring her down from the tree, then bringeth her into the ship, and so goeth back toward
the rock where his cousin was.

"Sir Knight," saith Gohaz, "Where will you put me?"

"I will put you," saith he, "as an enemy, there, where you have put the son of mine uncle in
prison; so shall I avenge me of you, and he also at his will."

When the King heard this, he was glad thereof not a whit, and the damsel was loath not a whit,
whom he had thus disherited.  They row until they come to the rock.  Perceval issueth forth
of the ship, and bringeth Gohaz up maugre his head.  Galobruns seeth him coming and maketh
great joy thereof, and Perceval saith to him: "Behold here your mortal enemy!  Now do your
will of him!"

He taketh the key and so looseth him of the irons wherein he was imprisoned.

XIV.

"Galobruns," saith Perceval, "Now may you do your pleasure of your enemy?"

"Sir," saith he, "Right gladly!"

He maketh fast the irons on his feet that he had upon his own, and afterward setteth the collar
on his neck.

"Now let him be here," saith he, "in such sort and in such prison as he put me; for well I
know that he will be succoured of none."

After that, he flingeth the key into the sea as far as he might, and so seemed it to Galobruns
that he well avenged himself in such wise, and better than if he had killed him.  Perceval
alloweth him everything therein at his will.  They enter into the ship and leave Gohaz all
sorrowing on the rock, that never thereafter ate nor drank.  And Perceval bringeth his cousin
and the damsel, and they row until that they come into their land, and Perceval maketh send
for all the folk of King Gohaz and maketh all the more powerful do sure homage to Galobruns
and his sisters in such sort that the land was all at their will.  He sojourned there so long
as it pleased him, and then departed and took leave of the damsel and Galobruns, that thanked
him much for the lands that he had again through him.

XV.

Perceval hath rowed until that he is come nigh a castle that was burning fiercely with a great
flame, and seeth a hermitage upon the sea hard by.  He seeth the hermit at the door of the
chapel, and asketh him what the castle is that hath caught fire thus.

"Sir," saith the hermit, "I will tell you.  Joseus, the son of King Pelles, slew his mother
there.  Never sithence hath the castle stinted of burning, and I tell you that of this castle
and one other will be kindled the fire that shall burn up the world and put it to an end."

Perceval marvelleth much, and knew well that it was the castle of King Hermit his uncle.  He
departeth thence in great haste, and passeth three kingdoms and saileth by the wastes and deserts
on one side and the other of the sea, for the ship ran somewhat a-nigh the land.  He looketh
and seeth on an island twelve hermits sitting on the seashore. The sea was calm and untroubled,
and he made cast the anchor so as to keep the ship steady.  Then he saluteth the hermits, and
they all bow down to him in answer.  He asketh them where have they their repair, and they
tell him that they have not far away twelve chapels and twelve houses that surround a grave-yard
wherein lie twelve dead knights that we keep watch over.  They were all brothers-german, and
right worshipful men, and none thereof lived more than twelve years knight save one only, and
none of them was there but won much land and broad kingdoms from the misbelievers, and they
all died in arms; and the name of the eldest was Alain li Gros, and he came into this country
from the Valleys of Camelot to avenge his brother Alibans of the Waste City that the Giant
King had slain, and he took vengeance on him thereof, but he died thereafter of a wound that
the Giant had given him.

"Sir," saith one of the hermits, "I was at his death, but nought was there he so longed after
as a son of his, and he said that his name was Perceval.  He was the last of the brothers that
died."

XVI.

When Perceval heard this he had pity thereof, and issued forth of the ship and came to land,
and his mariner with him.  He prayed the hermits that they would lead him to the graveyard
where the knights lay, and gladly did they so.  Perceval is come thither and seeth the coffins
right rich and fair, and the chapels full fairly dight, and every coffin lay over against the
altar in each chapel.

"Lords, which coffin is that of the Lord of Camelot?"

"This, the highest," say the hermits, "and the most rich, for that he was eldest of all the
brethren."

Perceval kneeleth down before it, then embraceth the coffin and prayeth right sweetly for the
soul of his father, and in like manner he went to all the other coffins.  He harboured the
night with the hermits, and told them that Alain li Gros was his father and all the other his
uncles.  Right joyous were the hermits for that he was come thither, and the morrow, or ever
he departed, he heard mass in the chapel of his father and in the others where he might.  He
entered into the ship and sped full swift, and so far hath the ship run that he draweth nigh
the islands of Great Britain.  He arriveth at the head of a forest under the Red Tower whereof
he had slain the lord, there where Meliot delivered Messire Gawain.  He is issued forth of
the ship and leadeth forth his horse and is armed, and commendeth the pilot to God.  He mounteth
on his destrier, all armed, and goeth amidst the land that was well-nigh void of people, for
he himself had slain the greater part thereof, albeit he knew it not.  He rideth so long, right
amidst the country, that he cometh toward evensong to a hold that was in a great forest, and
he bethought him that he would go into the hermitage, and he cometh straight into the hold,
and seeth a knight lying in the entrance of the gate on a straw mattress, and a damsel sate
at the bed's head, of passing great beauty, and held his head on her lap.

XVII.

The knight reviled her from time to time, and said that he would make cut of her head and he
had not that he desired to have, for that he was sick.  Perceval looked at the lady that held
him and served him full sweetly, and deemed her to be a good lady and a loyal.  The Sick Knight
called to Perceval.

"Sir," saith he, "Are you come in hither to harbour?"

"Sir," saith Perceval, "So please you, I will harbour here."

"Then blame me not," saith the knight, "of that you shall see me do unto my wife."

"Sir," saith Perceval, "Sith that she is yours, you have a right to do your pleasure, but in
all things ought one to be heedful on one's way."

The knight made him be carried back into the dwelling, for that he had been in the air as long
as pleased him, and commanded his wife that she do much honour to the knight that is come to
lodge within.

"But take heed," saith he, "that you be not seen at the table, but eat, as you are wont, at
the squire's table, for, until such time as I have the golden cup I desire, I will not forego
my despite against you."

XVIII.

Perceval unarmed him.  The lady had brought him a surcoat of scarlet for him to do on, and
he asked her wherefore her lord reviled her and rebuked her in such sort, and she told him
all the story how Lancelot had married her to him, and how her lord ever sithence had dishonoured
her.

"Sir," saith she, "Now hath he fallen into misease, sithence then, and he hath a brother as
sick as he is, and therefore hath Gohaz of the Castle of the Whale reft him of his land, whereof
is he right sorry, and my lord hath never been heal since that he heard thereof.  And well
you know that such folk wax wroth of a little, and are overjoyed when they have a little thing
that pleaseth them, for they live always in desire of somewhat.  My lord hath heard tell of
a cup of gold that a damsel beareth, that is right rich and of greater worth than aught he
hath seen this long time, and a knight goeth with the damsel that beareth the cup, and saith
that none may have it save he be the Best Knight in the World.  My lord hath told me many times,
sithence he heard tidings thereof, that never shall the despite he hath toward me be forgone,
until that he shall have the cup.  But he is so angry withal with his brother that hath lost
his land, that I aby it right dear, for I do all his will and yet may I have no fair treatment
of him.  Howbeit, for no ill that he may do, nor no churlishness that he may say, will I be
against him in nought that he hath set his mind on. For I would have him, and I had him, blessed
be Lancelot through whom it was so.  As much as I loved him in health, so much love I him in
his sickness, and more yet, for I desire to deserve that God shall bring him to a better mind."

XIX.

"Lady," saith Perceval, "Great praise ought you to have of this that you say; but you may well
tell him of a truth that the sick King his brother hath all his land freely and his daughter,
for I was at the reconquering thereof, and know the knight well that gave it back unto him.
But of the golden cup can I give you no witting."

"Sir," saith she, "The damsel is to bear it to an assembly of knights that is to be held hard
by this, under the White Tower. There hath she to give it to the best knight, and him that
shall do best at the assembly, and the knight that followeth the damsel is bound to carry it
whither he that shall win it may command, and if he would fain it should be given to another
rather than to himself."

"Lady," saith Perceval, "Well meseemeth that he who shall win the cup by prize of arms will
be right courteous and he send it to you, and God grant that he that hath it may do you such
bounty as you desire."

"Sir," saith she, "Methinketh well, so Lancelot were there, either he or Messire Gawain, that,
and they won it, so they remembered them of me, and knew how needful it were to me, they would
promise me the cup."

"Lady," saith Perceval, "By one of these twain ought you well to have it, for greater prize
now long since have they won."

She goeth to her lord and saith to him: "Sir," saith she, "Now may you be more joyous than
is your wont, for that your brother hath his land again all quit.  For the knight that is within
was at the reconquering."

The Sick Knight heard her and had great joy thereof.

"Go!" saith he to his wife, "and do great honour to the knight, but take heed you sit not otherwise
than you are wont."

"Sir," saith she, "I will not."

XX.

The damsel maketh Perceval sit at meat.  When he had washen, he thought that the lady should
have come to sit beside him, but she would not disobey her lord's commandment.  When Perceval
was set at the table and he had been served of the first meats, thereupon the lady went to
sit with the squires.  Perceval was much shamed that she should sit below, but he was not minded
to speak, for she had told him somewhat of her lord's manner.  Howbeit, he lay the night in
the hold, and, on the morrow when he had taken leave, he departed, and bethought him in his
courage that the knight would do good chivalry and great aims that should do this sick knight
his desire as concerning the cup, in such sort as that his wife should be freed of the annoy
that she is in, for that all knights that knew thereof ought to have pity of her. Perceval
goeth his way as he that hath great desire to accomplish that he hath to do, and to see the
token of his going again to the castle where the chain of gold appeared to him, for never yet
saw he dwelling that pleased him so much.  He hath ridden so far that he is come into the joyless
forest of the Black Hermit, that is so loathly and horrible that no leaves nor greenery are
there by winter nor by summer, nor was song of bird never heard therein, but all the land is
gruesome and burnt, and wide are the cracks therein.  He hath scarce gone thereinto or ever
he hath overtaken the Damsel of the Car, that made full great joy of him.

"Sir," saith she, "Bald was I the first time I saw you; now may you see that I have my hair."

"Certes, yea!" saith Perceval, "And, as methinketh, hair passing beautiful."

"Sir," saith she, "I was wont to carry my arm at my neck in a scarf of gold and silk, for that
I thought the service I did you in the hostel of King Fisherman your uncle had been ill bestowed;
but now well I see that it was not; wherefore now carry I the one arm in the same manner as
the other; and the damsel that wont to go a-foot now goeth a-horseback; and blessed be you
that have so approved you in goodness by the good manner of your heart, and by your likeness
to the first of your lineage, whom you resemble in all good conditions. Sir," saith she, "I
durst not come nigh the castle, for there be archers there that shoot so sore that none may
endure their strokes, and hereof will they stint not, they say, until such time as you be come
thither.  But well know I wherefore they will cease then, for they will come to shut you up
within to slay and to destroy.  Natheless all they that are within will have no power, nor
will they do you evil, save only the lord of the castle; but he will do battle against you
right gladly."

XXI.

Perceval goeth toward the castle of the Black Hermit, and the Damsel of the Car after.  The
archers draw and shoot stoutly. Perceval goeth forward a great gallop, but they know him not
on account of the white shield.  They think rather that it is one of the other knights, and
they lodge many arrows in his shield.  He came nigh a drawbridge over a moat right broad and
foul and horrible, and the bridge was lowered so soon as he came, and all the archers left
of shooting.  Then knew they well that it was Perceval who came.  The door was opened to receive
him, for they of the gate and they of the castle within thought to have power to slay him.
But so soon as they saw him, they lost their will thereof and were all amared and without strength,
and said that they would set this business on their lord that was strong enough and puissant
enough to slay one man.  Perceval entered all armed into a great hall, and found it filled
all around with a great throng of folk that was right foul to look on.  He that was called
the Black Hermit was full tall and Seemed to be of noble lordship, and he was in the midst
of the hall, all armed.

"Sir," say his men, "And you have not defence of yourself, never no counsel nor aid may you
have of us!"

XXII.

"We are yours to guard, to protect, and oftentimes have we defended you; now defend us in this
sore need."

The Black Hermit sate upon a tall black horse, and was right richly armed.  So soon as Perceval
espieth him, he cometh with such a rush against him that he maketh all the hall resound, and
the Black Hermit cometh in like sort.  They mell together with such force that the Black Hermit
breaketh his spear upon Perceval, but Perceval smiteth him so passing stoutly on the left side
upon the shield, that he beareth him to the ground beside his horse, so that in the fall he
made he to-frushed two of the great ribs in the overturn.  And when they that were therein
saw him fall, they opened the trap-door of a great pit that was in the midst of the hall. 
So soon as they had opened it, the foulest stench that any smelt ever issued thereout.  They
take their lord and cast him into this abysm and this filth.  After that, they come to Perceval,
and so yield the castle and put them at his mercy in everything.  Thereupon, behold you, the
Damsel of the Car that cometh. They deliver up to her the heads sealed in gold, both the head
of the King and of the Queen, and she departeth forthwith, for well knoweth she that Perceval
will achieve that he hath to do without her.  She departeth from the castle and goeth the speediest
she may toward the Valleys of Camelot.  And all they of the castle that had been the Black
Hermit's are obedient to Perceval to do his will, and they have him in covenant that never
more shall knights be harassed there in such sort as they had been theretofore, but rather
that they should receive gladly any knights that should pass that way, like as in other places.
Perceval departed from the castle rejoicing for that he had drawn them to the believe of Our
Lord, and every day was His service done therein in holy wise, like as it is done in other places.

XXIII.

Hereof ought the good knight to be loved that by the goodness of his heart and the loyalty
of his knighthood hath achieved all the emprises he undertook, without reproach and without
blame. Perceval hath ridden until he hath overtaken the damsel that carried the rich cup of
gold and the knight that was along with her.  Perceval saluteth him, and the knight maketh
answer, may he be blessed of God and of His sweet Mother.

"Fair Sir," saith Perceval, "Is this damsel of your company?"

Saith the knight, "Rather am I of hers.  But we are going to an assembly of knights that is
to be under the White Tower to the intent to prove which knight is most worth, and to him that
shall have the prize of the assembly shall be delivered this golden cup."

"By my head," saith Perceval, "That will be fair to see!"

He departeth from the knight and the damsel, and goeth his way a great pace amidst the meadows
under the White Tower, whither the knights were coming from all parts, and many of them were
already armed to issue forth.  So soon as it was known that the damsel with the cup was come
thither, the fellowships assembled on all sides, and great was the clashing of arms.  Perceval
hurleth into the assembly in such sort that many a knight he smiteth down and overthroweth
at his coming, and he giveth so many blows and so many receiveth that all they that behold
marvel much how he may abide.  The assembly lasted until evensong, and when it came to an end
the damsel came to the knights and prayed and required that they would declare to her by right
judgment of arms which had done the best.  The more part said that he of the white shield had
surpassed them all in arms, and all agreed thereto. The damsel was right glad, for well she
knew that they spake truth.  She cometh to Perceval; "Sir," saith she, "I present you this
cup of gold for your good chivalry, and therefore is it meet and right you should know whence
the cup cometh.  The elder Damsel of the Tent where the evil custom was wont to be, sent it
to Messire Gawain, and Messire Gawain made much joy thereof.  And it came to pass on such wise
that Brundans, the son of the sister of Briant of the Isles, slew Meliot of Logres, the most
courteous knight and the most valiant that was in the realm of Logres, and thereof was Messire
Gawain so sorrowful that he knew not how to contain himself.  For Meliot had twice rescued
him from death, and King Arthur once.  He was liegeman of Messire Gawain. Wherefore he prayeth
and beseecheth you on his behalf that you receive not the cup save you undertake to avenge
him.  For he was loved of all the court, albeit he had haunted it but little. Brundans slew
him in treason when Meliot was unawares of him."

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "Were there no cup at all, yet natheless should I be fain to do the
will of Messire Gawain, for never might I love the man that had deserved his hatred."  He taketh
the cup in his hand.  "Damsel," saith he, "I thank you much hereof, and God grant I may reward
you for the same."

"Sir," saith she, "Brundans is a right proud knight, and beareth a shield party of vert and
argent.  He is minded never to change his cognisance, for that his father bore the same."

Perceval called the knight that was of the damsel's company.  "I beseech you," saith he, "of
guerdon and of service, that you bear this cup for me to the hold of the Sick Knight, and tell
his wife that the Knight of the White Shield that was harboured there within hath sent it her
by you."

"Sir," saith the knight, "This will I do gladly to fulfil your will."

He taketh the cup to furnish out the conditions of the message, and so departeth forthwith.

XXIV.

Perceval lay the night in the castle of the White Tower, and departed thence on the morrow
as he that would fain do somewhat whereof he might deserve well of Messire Gawain.  Many a
time had he heard tell of Meliot of Logres and of his chivalry and of his great valour.  He
was entered into a forest, and had heard mass of a hermit, from whom he had departed.  He came
to the Castle Perilous that was hard by there where Meliot lay sick, lay wounded, when Lancelot
brought him the sword and the cloth wherewith he touched his wounds.  He entered into the castle
and alighted.  The damsel of the castle, that made great dole, came to meet Perceval. "Damsel,"
saith he, "Wherefore are you so sorrowful?"

"Sir," saith she, "For a knight that I tended and healed herewithin, whom Brundans hath killed
in treason, and God thereof grant us vengeance yet, for so courteous knight saw I never."

While she was speaking in this manner, forthwith behold you a damsel that cometh.

"Ha, Sir," saith she to Perceval, "Mount you again and come to aid us, for none other knight
find I in this land nor in this forest but only you all alone!"

"What need have you of my aid?" saith Perceval.

"A knight is carrying off my lady by force, that was going to the court of King Arthur."

"Who is your lady?" saith Perceval.

"Sir, she is the younger Damsel of the Tent where Messire Gawain overthrew the evil customs.
For God's sake, hasten you, for he revileth her sore for her love of the King and of Messire
Gawain."

Perceval remounteth forthwith and issueth forth of the castle on the spur.  The damsel bringeth
him on as fast as the knight can go.  They had not ridden far before they came a-nigh, and
Perceval heard the damsel crying aloud for mercy, and the knight said that mercy upon her he
would not have, and so smote her on the head and neck with the fiat of his sword.

XXV.

Perceval espied the knight and saw that the cognisance of his shield was such as that which
had been set forth to him.

"Sir," saith he, "Too churlishly are you entreating this damsel! What wrong hath she done you?"

"What is it to you of me and of her?"

"I say it" saith Perceval, "for that no knight ought to do churlishly to damsel."

"He will not stint for you yet!" saith Brundans.  He raiseth his sword and dealeth the damsel
a buffet with the fiat so passing heavy that it maketh her stoop withal so that the blood rayeth
out at mouth and nose.

"By my head," saith Perceval, "On this buffet I defy thee, for the death of Meliot and for
the shame you have done this damsel."

"Neither you nor none other may brag that you have heart to attack me, but you shall aby it
right dear!"

"That shall you see presently," saith Perceval and so draweth back the better to let drive
at him, and moveth towards him as fast as his horse may run, and smiteth him so passing sore
that he pierceth his shield and bursteth his habergeon and then thrusteth his spear into his
body with such force that he overthroweth him all in a heap, him and his horse, in such sort
that he breaketh both legs in the fall.

Then he alighteth over him, lowereth his coif, unlaceth the ventail, and smiteth off his head.

"Damsel," saith he, "Take it, I present it to you.  And, sith that you are going to King Arthur's
court, I pray and beseech you that you carry it thither and so salute him first for me, and
tell Messire Gawain and Lancelot that this is the last present I look ever to make them, for
I think never to see them more. Howbeit, wheresoever I may be, I shall be their well-wisher,
nor may I never withdraw me of my love, and I would fain I might make them the same present
of the heads of all their enemies, but that I may do nought against God's will."

The damsel giveth him thanks for that he hath delivered her from the hands of the knight, and
saith that she shall praise him much thereof to the King and Messire Gawain.  She goeth her
way and carrieth off the head, and Perceval biddeth her to God.  He returned back to Castle
Perilous, and the damsel made great joy thereof when she understood that he had slain Brundans.
Perceval lay there that night, and departed on the morrow after that he had heard mass.  When
he came forth of the castle he met the knight by whom he had sent the cup to the Sick Knight's
wife. Perceval asketh how it is with him.

"Sir," saith he, "I have carried out your message right well, for never was a thing received
with such good will.  The Sick Knight hath forgone his grudge against his wife.  She eateth
at his table, and the household do her commandment."

"This liketh me right well," saith Perceval, "and I thank you of doing this errand."

"Sir," saith the knight, "No thing is there I would not do for you, for that you made my brother
Knight Hardy there where you first saw him Knight Coward."

"Sir," saith Perceval, "Good knight was your brother and a right good end he made, but a little
it forthinketh me that he might have still been living had he abided in his cowardize."

"Sir," saith he, "Better is he dead, sith that he died with honour, than that he should live
with shame.  Yet glad was I not of his death, for a hardy knight he was, and yet more would
have been, had he lived longer."

XXVI.

Perceval departeth from the knight and commendeth him to God.  He hath wandered so far one
day and another that he is returned to his own most holy castle, and findeth therein his mother
and his sister that the Damsel of the Car had brought thither.  The Widow Lady had made bear
thither the body that lay in the coffin before the castle of Camelot in the rich chapel that
she had builded there.  His sister brought the cerecloth that she took in the Waste Chapel,
and presented there where the Graal was.  Perceval made bring the coffin of the other knight
that was at the entrance of his castle within the chapel likewise, and place it beside the
coffin of his uncle, nor never thereafter might it be removed.  Josephus telleth us that Perceval
was in this castle long time, nor never once moved therefrom in quest of no adventure; rather
was his courage so attorned to the Saviour of the World and His sweet Mother, that he and his
sister and the damsel that was therein led a holy life and a religious.  Therein abode they
even as it pleased God, until that his mother passed away and his sister and all they that
were therein save he alone. The hermits that were nigh the castle buried them and sang their
masses, and came every day and took counsel of him for the holiness they saw him do and the
good life that he led there. So one day whilst he was in the holy chapel where the hallows
were, forthwith, behold you, a Voice that cometh down therein: "Perceval," saith the Voice,
"Not long shall you abide herein; wherefore it is God's will that you dispart the hallows amongst
the hermits of the forest, there where these bodies shall be served and worshipped, and the
most Holy Graal shall appear herein no more, but within a brief space shall you know well the
place where it shall be."

When the Voice departed, all the coffins that were therein crashed so passing loud that it
seemed the master-hall had fallen.  He crosseth and blesseth him and commendeth him to God.
On a day the hermits came to him.  He disparted the holy relics among them, and they builded
above them holy churches and houses of religion that are seen in the lands and in the islands.
Joseus the son of King Hermit, remained therein with Perceval, for he well knew that he would
be departing thence betimes.

XXVII.

Perceval heard one day a bell sound loud and high without the manor toward the sea.  He came
to the windows of the hall and saw the ship come with the white sail and the Red Cross thereon,
and within were the fairest folk that ever he might behold, and they were all robed in such
manner as though they should sing mass. When the ship was anchored under the hall they went
to pray in the most holy chapel.  They brought the richest vessels of gold and silver that
any might ever see, like as it were coffins, and set therein one of the three bodies of knights
that had been brought into the chapel, and the body of King Fisherman, and of the mother of
Perceval.  But no savour in the world smelleth so sweet.  Perceval took leave of Joseus and
commended him to the Saviour of the World, and took leave of the household, from whom he departed
in like manner.  The worshipful men that were in the ship signed them of the cross and blessed
them likewise.  The ship wherein Perceval was drew far away, and a Voice that issued from the
manor as she departed commended them to God and to His sweet Mother.  Josephus recordeth us
that Perceval departed in such wise, nor never thereafter did no earthly man know what became
of him, nor doth the history speak of him more.  But the history telleth us that Joseus abode
in the castle that had been King Fisherman's, and shut himself up therein so that none might
enter, and lived upon that the Lord God might send him.  He dwelt there long time after that
Perceval had departed, and ended therein. After his end, the dwelling began to fall.  Natheless
never was the chapel wasted nor decayed, but was as whole thereafter as tofore and is so still.
The place was far from folk, and the place seemed withal to be somewhat different.  When it
was fallen into decay, many folk of the lands and islands that were nighest thereunto marvel
them what may be in this manor. They dare a many that they should go see what was therein,
and sundry folk went thither from all the lands, but none durst never enter there again save
two Welsh knights that had heard tell of it.  Full comely knights they were, young and joyous
hearted. So either pledged him to other that they would go thither by way of gay adventure;
but therein remained they of a long space after, and when again they came forth they led the
life of hermits, and clad them in hair shirts, and went by the forest and so ate nought save
roots only, and led a right hard life; yet ever they made as though they were glad, and if
that any should ask whereof they rejoiced in such wise, "Go," said they to them that asked,
"thither where we have been, and you shall know the wherefore."

In such sort made they answer to the folk.  These two knights died in this holy life, nor were
none other tidings never brought thence by them.  They of that land called them saints.

XXVIII. Here endeth the story of the most Holy Graal.  Josephus, by whom it is placed on record,
giveth the benison of Our Lord to all that hear and honour it.  The Latin from whence this
history was drawn into Romance was taken in the Isle of Avalon, in a holy house of religion
that standeth at the head of the Moors Adventurous, there where King Arthur and Queen Guenievre
lie, according to the witness of the good men religious that are therein, that have the whole
history thereof, true from the beginning even to the end.  After this same history beginneth
the story how Briant of the Isles renounced King Arthur on account of Lancelot whom he loved
not, and how he assured King Claudas that reft King Ban of Benoic of his land.  This story
telleth how he conquered him and by what means, and how Galobrus of the Red Launde came to
King Arthur's court to help Lancelot, for that he was of his lineage.  This story is right
long and right adventurous and weighty, but the book will now forthwith be silent thereof until
another time.

THE AUTHOR'S CONCLUSION

For the Lord of Neele made the Lord of Cambrein this book be written, that never tofore was
treated in Romance but one single time besides this; and the book that was made tofore this
is so ancient that only with great pains may one make out the letter. And let Messire Johan
de Neele well understand that he ought to hold this story dear, nor ought he tell nought thereof
to ill-understanding folk, for a good thing that is squandered upon bad folk is never remembered
by them for good.

EXPLICIT THE ROMANCE OF PERCEVAL THE NEPHEW OF KING FISHERMAN.