Beside the editor of a comic journal stalks a demon on either hand--the Belial of Plagiarism
and the Beelzebub of Repetition. The public looks to him to be a wit and a humorist, with a
knowledge of every witticism that ever was made. If he suffer an old joke to appear, some "constant
reader" will surely find him out, and publish the fact abroad with malignant glee. There are
few vices so deeply resented as the telling of an old joke; in an editor it is recognised as
amounting to crime. But those who judge so severely have clearly never made a scientific study
of the Joke. It is not sufficient to analyse a witticism and dissect it, in the cold spirit
of that terrible book called "A Theory of Wit and Humour," till its humour flies, like the
delicate bouquet from uncorked wine. The genealogy of jokes and twists of humour and of thought,
of form and application, must be traced; and the student will find that in respect to a great
proportion of our verbal jests of to-day they may be tracked up to the Middle Ages, back to
Classic times, and lost perchance in the Oriental recesses of a jocular past. It is not only
a case of mere unconscious repetition or of brazen-faced plagiarism that is the principle involved;
it has its root in the chameleon-like variety of aspect possible to a piece of fooling or a
flash of wit. Jokes are as adaptable to times and circumstances, as the human race itself;
and to identify them and pin them down on a specimen card, one must be another Pastor Aristæus,
alert and skilful, in pursuit of a lightning Proteus, infinitely various and hopelessly volatile.

But even that is not enough. Suppose the editor to be a scholar, deeply read in the Classics
and in Oriental writings, and endowed besides with a memory so prodigious as to be able to
recognise every joke that turns up, he has still to guard against the contributor, on whom
he is to a considerable extent dependent. The jest-purveyor may be honest when he unwittingly
sends in a joke that has already gone the rounds, and has appeared perhaps in some country
paper; or he may be deliberately dishonest; or he may simply be impatient at not seeing his
contribution printed (perhaps, after all, it is only being kept back for an illustration to
be drawn to accompany it), and may send it off elsewhere--anticipating its publication in the
paper of his original choice. Or a group of jokes may form the stock-in-trade of a newly accepted
contributor, who, as the seaside landladies say, "must have brought them in his portmantel."
And then there are recurring events that naturally give recurring birth to jokes they almost
necessarily suggest. There is thus no standard, no system of identification for the thousand
disguises in which a joke may lurk; and unconscious plagiarism and repetition deserve greater
indulgence than that which they commonly receive. Mr. Burnand, probably the most prolific punster
of the age, once wrote to a contributor, "For goodness' sake, send no more puns; they have
all been made!" Indeed, Punch has given us more "pre-historic peeps" of humour than he or Mr.
Reed have any notion of. "Bless you," said Punch in his third number, "half the proverbs given
to Solomon are mine!"

It was the fashion when Punch was young for the comic papers to indulge in fierce recrimination
and bitter charge and counter-charge of plagiarism. At that time it was thought that a satirical
paper could be launched into public favour on its abuse of rivals--so that all the drowning
journals caught at the straws of the others' reputations. Nowadays they more practically apply
for an injunction. Punch, in point of fact, has sought the protection of the law on more than
one occasion. As early as 1844 the Vice-Chancellor's Court was the scene of the action of the
Proprietors of Punch v. Marshall and Another, when Mr. Bethell, afterwards Lord Westbury, complained
that the defendants had published a "Punch's Steamboat Companion" (an excessively vulgar production)
with intention to deceive the public. The judge brilliantly remarked, "Well, this certainly
is an excuse for the Court taking punch in the morning. (Great laughter.) I think you have
made out a sufficient case for your injunction, Mr. Bethell;" and the injunction was accordingly
granted. In the following year (July, 1845) steps had to be taken to protect Mr. and Mrs. Caudle
from the wholesale piracy to which they were subjected on every side. Mr. Bethell again made
a comic speech, directed primarily against the "Hereford Times" and the "Southport Visitor,"
in which the eighth and ninth lectures, illustrations and all, had been coolly reproduced,
without a word of acknowledgment. As before, the serio-comic pleader was successful, and obtained
the desired injunctions. Again, in 1872 Mr. J. C. Hotten was stopped from publishing "The Story
of the Life of Napoleon, told by the Popular Caricaturists of the Last 30 Years," inasmuch
as the compiler had annexed from Punch all he desired for the work. (Law Reports 8, Exchequer
7.) Sir Henry Hawkins was for Punch, and Serjeant Parry defended. The judge, Lord Bramwell,
and jury, too, believed in the sacred rights of property, and a farthing damages was awarded
in addition to the forty shillings paid into Court. So Punch won his case and gained his costs--and
Hotten went on publishing his book just as if nothing had occurred. Another case, against the
"Ludgate Monthly," need only be mentioned for the sake of a rival's remark that the idea of
Punch having published a joke worth copying and going to law about was the greatest joke of all.

During his minority Punch made and sustained many an open charge of plagiarism. They were the
amenities of comic literature, of which, however, the public soon tired; and Punch, recognising
that newspaper readers will not be troubled to take part or sides in an Eatanswill warfare
that does not concern them, practically dropped a campaign with which the rest continued to
persevere. But Punch's silence was misunderstood. At any rate, it was presumed upon. When he
could stand the audacity of the poachers no longer, he broke out, as recounted, in the summer
of 1844, again in the following year, and once more in 1847, into a practical prosecution.
Douglas Jerrold's caustic pen had full play in his all-round denunciation of the pilferers,
and in Punch's name he let fly at big game. "First and foremost," he declared, "the great juggler
of Printing-House Square walks in like a sheriff and takes our comic effects;" and Newman's
pencil added point to the comprehensiveness of the assault. Of numerous frauds, too, Punch
had to complain. "Punch's Almanacs" of a vile and indecent sort, with which he had nothing
in the world to do, had been issued to his detriment, and several papers were produced in close
imitation of his own; but it was the circumstance of his stolen jokes that wounded him most
of all, and caused him to lay his bâton about him with lusty vigour. The incriminated journals,
thoroughly in their element, retorted with well-feigned indignation. Prominent among them "Joe
Miller the Younger" had professed for him at first a particular friendship which, when contemptuously
rejected, turned, like the love of a woman scorned, to hate. It might have been retorted that
Punch, in the words of his prospectus, had frankly owned that he would give "asylum for superannuated
Joe Millers," and even that Mr. Birket Foster had been actually employed in 1842 in "adapting"
and anglicising Gavarni's drawings for Punch's pages. Instead, "Joe Miller" defended the size
of his page, which was, he said, like Punch's own, copied from the "Athenæum," and protested
against any attempt at monopoly, pointing out that the sub-title "Charivari" was itself a plagiarism.
If anyone, he went on, could prove that he bought a Punch in mistake for a "Joe Miller," he
would willingly pay £5 for each copy so sold, in order "to compensate the Punch purchaser for
his disappointment."

From this moment until his death he never left Punch alone, and constantly pointed out many
of his delinquencies, plagiarisms apparently so gross and frequent that it can hardly be doubted
that some intrigue was afoot. For example, on August 2nd, 1845, there appeared in both papers
a cartoon almost identical, with the attitudes reversed, entitled "The Political Pas de Quatre"--after
the existing ballet at Her Majesty's Theatre, danced by Grisi, Taglioni, Grahn, and Cerito--representing
four ballet-skirted danseuses in a grotesque pose or tableau. Those in the Punch cartoon (which,
by the way, was suggested at the Table by Gilbert à Beckett, and was executed by Leech) were
impersonated by Lord Brougham, Lord John Russell, Sir Robert Peel, and Daniel O'Connell; while
in the other appeared Lord Brougham, the Duke of Wellington, Sir Robert Peel, and Daniel O'Connell;
but, unless carefully compared, the one might certainly be mistaken for the other. The "Joe
Miller" block was drawn by A. S. Henning, who had quitted the service of Punch three years
before; and it was claimed by his paper that the original drawing was exhibited in their window
a week before Punch's appeared. But abuse of Punch for this and other curious coincidences
did not save him, and "Joe Miller the Younger" soon announced his metamorphosis into "Mephystopheles,"
which proved an inferior and still shorter-lived concern.

Then followed the bright and able little monthly "The Man in the Moon," from which Punch had
some of the hardest knocks he ever received, for on its Staff were to be found most of the
clever men of the day (including Shirley Brooks) for whom Punch could find no room. Month after
month examples were given of Punch's alleged pilfering, which really only proved how the minds
of humorists run in grooves, especially when dealing with topical subjects; and a cutting representation
of Punch as an old clo'man begging bits of comic manuscript, with the plaintive cry of "Any
Jo', Jo'--any old Jo'?" scored a great success. "The Man in the Moon" chaffed Bulwer Lytton
on his initials, "E.L.B.L.B.L.B.," and Thackeray followed in Punch with "E.L.B.L.B.L.B.B.L.L.
B.B.B." And one of Leech's sketches of "The Rising Generation"--a small boy saying, "Aw--hairdresser,
when you've finished my hair, just take off my beard, will you?" (Vol. XII., p. 104, 1847)--was
also represented as a gross infringement. The title of a poem, "What are the Wild Waves Saying?"
(with the reply, "We'd better have stayed at home"), issued in "The Man in the Moon," was seen
in Punch soon after; while the superiority of our "New Street-Sweeping Machines" over those
then in use abroad (by which, of course, cannon was intended) appeared in Punch's pages a fortnight
afterwards. It is an interesting fact that this self-same idea of the Street-Sweeping Machines
gave Charles Keene the subject for his first Punch drawing just three years later.

But, apart from charges of direct plagiarism, "The Man in the Moon" certainly anticipated Punch
in some of his well-known cuts. The "Patent Railway-Director Buffer," which consisted in the
tying of a railway director on the front of the locomotive, was certainly the "Moon's" invention
in February, 1847. In March, 1853, Leech showed the world in his cartoon "How to Ensure against
Railway Accidents," by lashing a director across the engine à la Mazeppa; and as late as 1857
(p. 24, Vol. XXXIII.) Sir John Tenniel showed a "Patent Railway Safety Buffer" precisely similar
to the original device. Again, in "The Man in the Moon" (January, 1848) the little joke--Park-keeper
(St. James's Park): "You can't come in!" Boy: "Vot do yer mean? Ain't it us as keeps yer?"--is
surely related to Sir John Tenniel's cut (p. 181, Vol. XXXII., 1857), in which a delightful
Hodge gazes open-mouthed at the sentry at the Horse Guards, and replies, when asked what he's
staring at, "Wy shouldn't I stare? I pays vor yer!"

The "Puppet Show," too, kept up a running fire at Punch, and delighted in retorting upon his
charge of "picking and stealing" by printing their jokes and his alleged belated ones in parallel
columns. Among the pictures, too, the "Puppet Show"-man was sometimes first, as in the sketch
of the fat old lady who enters an omnibus and, sitting down promiscuously somewhere between
two gentlemen, says, "Don't disturb yourselves; I'll shake down"--an idea textually repeated
in Punch in 1864 by Mr. Fred Barnard. The "Puppet Show" (1848) is also to be remembered for
its joke of the choleric old gentleman, indignant at the delay of an omnibus in which he has
taken his seat, crying impatiently to the conductor, "Is this omnibus going on?" and being
quietly answered, "No, sir; it's stopping perfectly still"--a joke illustrated by Mr. du Maurier
in Punch for 1871 (p. 208, Vol. LXI.); and for the picture of the City clerk in pink, who,
surprised by his employer, is accosted with the significant words, "So that's the costume you
are going to your uncle's funeral in?" Charles Keene used a similar joke forty-one years later,
only with time the festival had changed into that of an aunt. In the "Showman's" pages, too,
first appeared the Frenchman who accounts for his sore-throat by explaining that "Yesterday
morning I have wash my neck!" And the Duke of Wellington, in one of the cartoons (May, 1849),
cries, "Cobden, spare that tree," just as Beaconsfield pleaded with Gladstone in Tenniel's
picture of thirty years later. Again, a man with a gorgeous black-eye enters a room, and when
it is remarked on, expresses his surprise that anyone should have noticed it. Six years later
Leech repeated the idea in Punch. In his parting shot the "Showman" says, "The Punch writers
say they can't understand our jokes. We feel assured that the world will admit that they take
them fast enough"--itself a pun, by the way, which Punch had himself used in the postscript
to his first volume: "Ours hasn't been a bed of roses--we've had our rivals and our troubles.
We came as a great hint, and everybody took us."

In "The Arrow," a clever fortnightly rival which existed (it cannot be said to have "flourished")
in the year 1864, Punch was severely handled for "plagiarising" two of that journal's jokes
two or three weeks after their original publication. One of these had reference to the "Fight
with Fate," which was then being played at the Surrey Theatre; and as Mr. Banting and his famous
cure (the stout undertaker lived but two doors from Leech, in The Terrace at Kensington, and
struck up a pleasing friendship with the artist) were then the talk of the town, "The Arrow"
suggested a revised version, "A Fight with Fat," with a disciple of Mr. Banting as the chief
character. Punch followed suit with the entire idea. Thereupon the rival editor, Henry S. Leigh--the
lines are manifestly his--apostrophised Mr. Banting thus:--

  "Take mental exertion--fight shy of diversion
    (Remember, the proverb says 'Laugh and grow fat');
  You may venture securely on Punch, because surely
    There can't be much fear of your laughing at that."

Anyone who possesses the original "Joe Miller's Jest-book" will be able, if he cares to look,
to recognise a goodly number of the most popular jokes of the day, even including a number
of Punch jokes. He will there find set forth in quaint terms the retort of the non-churchgoer
that if he is not a pillar of the church, he is certainly one of the buttresses, for he stops
outside--used in due time by Charles Keene; he will find the repartee placed by Punch in the
drawing by the same artist (May 4th, 1872) in the mouth of an Irish beggar-woman who had been
refused alms by a pug-nosed gentleman, "The Lord preserve your eyesight, for you've no nose
to carry spectacles;" as well as that witticism usually ascribed to Curran when addressing
a jury in the face of a dissenting judge, "He shakes his head, but there's nothing in it;"
besides other favourite jokes of similar antiquity and renown. Robert Seymour, too, in whose
work, strangely enough, Leech is said to have found no humour, shines out posthumously now
and again from Punch's pages. "Move on--here's threepence," says a butler. "Threepence?" retorts
the street-flutist contemptuously, "d'you think I don't know the value of peace and quietness?"
That was originally Seymour's, together with the drawing of an Englishman's notion of "A Day's
Pleasure"--a labouring-man dragging a cartload of children up a steep hill on a hot Sunday--an
idea which was afterwards the subject of a Punch cartoon.

Two jokes which from their universality of treatment and the unfailing welcome accorded them
at every reappearance might almost be considered classic and generic jests, were greatly assisted
in their popularity by Seymour's pencil, before Punch obtained for them still wider recognition.
The first represents a fat man, between whose legs the dog he is whistling to has taken his
faithful stand. The old gentleman whistles and whistles again, anxiously exclaiming, "Wherever
can that dog be?" After Seymour had done with it, Alfred Crowquill took it up; and in 1854
(p. 71 of the second volume) Sir John Tenniel introduced it into Punch under the title of "Where,
and oh where!" It was not yet worn out, however, though it doubtless had seen its best days;
and so the "Fliegende Blätter" revived it in 1894 as a typical example of recent German humour.
For the other joke two men are required: the one an unmistakable ruffian, a grim and dirty
robber, and the other a weak, nervous, timid youth of insignificant stature, the scene representing
the entrance to a dark lane as night closes in. "This is a werry lonely spot, sir," says Seymour's
footpad; "I wonder you ain't afeard of being robbed!"--and the young man's hair stands on end,
and lifts his hat above his head. Leech in 1853 (p. 100, first volume) alters the dialogue
for Punch by introducing the pleasing possibility of a greater tragedy, by the footpad asking
the youth to buy a razor; and Captain Howard the following spring makes the ruffian inquire
if he may accompany his victim "to hear the nightingale." In "Diogenes" (December, 1854) the
pristine simplicity is restored by the naïf request that he "may go a little way" with the
young gentleman; and finally, in 1857, Leech once more resurrects and renovates it with his
astonishing talent and freshness for use in the Almanac.

"Are you comin' home?" asks an indignant wife of her tipsy spouse, in Mr. Phil May's admirable
drawing of February 16th, 1895. "I'll do ellythik you like in reasol, M'ria (hic). But I won't
come 'ome." In the previous year, however, the following had appeared in "Fun":--"Guid Wife.-'Come
hame, Jock; ye'll be doing nae guid here.' Jock.--'Onything in reason, Jenny, ma woman, but
hame I wall nae gang!'" On the other hand, in the "Echo," in March, 1895, appeared the following
item of news:--"There is a curious report of a dialogue in a Chinese medical paper:--Doctor:
'H'm. You are run down, sir. You need an ocean voyage. What is your business?' Patient: 'Second
mate of the Anna Maria, just in from Hong Kong.'" But more than a quarter of a century before,
Punch had treated his readers to the same.--"Doctor Cockshure (advising a nervous patient):
'My good sir, what you want is a thorough alteration of climate; the only thing to cure you
is a long sea-voyage.' Patient: 'That's rather inconvenient. You see, I'm only just home from
a sea-voyage round the world!'"

It is amusing for one endowed with a taste for the history of humour, and gifted with the requisite
memory, to follow some of these interesting revivals or re-births of comic ideas. Sir John
Tenniel's vision of "The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street," in the "Pocket Book" of 1880, was
a familiar conception to those who remembered "Cruikshank's Omnibus" of 1841; while Leech's
sea-sick Frenchman, in p. 76 of the second volume for 1851, was almost the counterpart of "Glorious
George's" important etching "A very good man, no doubt, but a Bad Sailor." Again, one of the
most brilliant things that ever appeared in a comic journal was the short dialogue supposed
to pass between an inquiring child and his philosophical though impatient parent:--

"What is mind?" "No matter."

"What is matter?" "Never mind."

"This well-known definition," says Dr. Furnivall, "according to the 'Academy,' was by Professor
T. Hewitt Key; he sent it to Punch, and of course it was printed forthwith--I suppose, somewhere
about the 'Sixties." But as a matter of fact this mot, which has also been attributed to Kenny,
had already been published in "The Month" as early as August, 1851 (page 147, Vol. I.); and
I may add that though I remember hearing Professor Key quote it more than once, I never heard
him pretend to its authorship.

Then, the belated Foozle returning home drunk, and offering to fight his aggressive-looking
hat-stand, appeared in H. J. Byron's "Comic News" (October 3rd, 1863), as well as in Punch
by Keene's pencil (1875); and the humorous chess-problem in the latter paper, in which White
had to mate in a certain number of moves, if Black interposed no serious obstacle, was an echo
of "White to play and check if Black doesn't prevent him" in "The Man in the Moon" of 1847,
and of "White to play and check if Black doesn't mate him before" in "The Month" of October,
1851. Mr. Sambourne's famous "cartoon junior" of Mr. Gladstone in the character of the child
in the soap advertisement, who "Won't be happy till he gets It" (i.e. the cake of Home Rule,
just out of his reach), was found, to his subsequent annoyance and surprise, to have been anticipated
by a week or two by the now defunct "Funny Folks;" and Sir John Tenniel's cartoon representing
Mr. Goschen, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, as a hen sitting on her eggs--an idea which
was not new even to him, as he had used it in 1880, ten years before--appeared some days after
a similar one had been issued in the "Pall Mall Budget;" though, of course, Punch's picture
had, in accordance with the mechanical routine of the office, been decided on a week before
publication.

Punch's advice to vocalists, "Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves"
(November, 1892), had, curiously enough, been spoken years before by the eccentric Duchess
in "Alice in Wonderland;" and his conceit that there is no fear for the prosperity of Ireland
under Home Rule "so long as her capital's D(o)ublin'" dates from still earlier times. Then
there was the fine old Scotch joke of a Glasgow baillie who, replying to the toast of the "Law,"
remarked that "all our greatest law-givers are dead--Moses is dead, Solon is dead, Confucius
and Justinian are dead--and I'm nae feelin' that vera weel mysel'," which in March, 1893, Punch
republished, adapting it, however, to modern literature--the speaker quaintly including George
Eliot amongst our deceased "best men." More recently a precisely parallel anecdote has been
attributed to Dr. McCosh, apropos of Leibnitz's theory of evil ("Westminster Gazette," January,
1895). And again, there is an old story of Baron Rothschild, who when very busy received the
visit of a business acquaintance. "Take a chair," quoth the Baron. "Can't," said his visitor,
"I'm in a hurry." "Then take two chairs," suggested the Baron, still engrossed. In 1871 the
same joke was sent in to Punch in a remodelled form, and duly published. "Call me a cab!" says
an excited gentleman. "You're too late, sir," replies the servant; "a cab couldn't do it."
"Confound you!" cries the other, "call two cabs, then!"

In 1892 a catastrophe befell Punch, a double faux pas. An excellent child story had been printed
in "Vanity Fair" of October 15th, in which a little girl at a Sunday-school class was asked
to define a parable: "Please, miss," replies the child, "a parable's a 'eavenly story with
no earthly meaning!" A fortnight later Punch, who had been victimised, had the misfortune,
not only to come out with the same joke, but by a typographical slip to spoil it by making
the child define a parable as "a heavenly story with an earthly meaning"--the result being
to evoke a pæan of exultation from the few papers whose favourite sport it is to keep a malevolent
weather-eye on Punch in perpetual hope of catching him tripping. Just such a little chorus
of mischievous delight greeted the publication of Mr. du Maurier's joke in which an old maid
complains that a serious drawback to the charming view from her windows is the tourists bathing
on the opposite shore. It is true, as her friend reminds her, that the distance is very great--"but
with a telescope, you know!" But years before, Charles Keene had illustrated the same idea,
taking, however, a cricket dressing-tent instead of a bathing shore; and long before that it
had been scoffed at for its antiquity.

In like fashion another Punch-baiter complained a quarter of a century ago that an American
paper printed a joke which Punch duly used as a "social," and which has since been revived
as follows: "Harriet Hosmer tells of an incident which occurred in her studio, where her statue
of Apollo rested. An old lady was being shown around, a Mrs. Raggles, and she paused before
this masterpiece a long time. Finally she exclaimed, 'So that's Apoller, is it?' She was assured
that it was. 'Supposed to be the handsomest man in the world, warn't he?' The surmise was assented
to. Then turning away disgustedly, 'Wal,' she said, 'I've seen Apoller and I've seen Raggles--an'
I say, Give me Raggles!'"

One of the stories told of Dominique was once printed in Punch as original. This was when he
took a bath by the doctor's order, and being asked how he felt, replied, "Rather wet." The
jokelet, curiously enough, had already been printed in "Mark Lemon's Jest-Book," and was so
far a classic that it is to be found in the "Arlequina" of 1694. (published by H. Wilkes in
1567), under the heading, "Of the Courtier that bad the boy holde his horse, xliii." This little
book, by the way, is included in Hazlitt's collection of Shakespeare's Jest-books.

In drawing attention to these incidents in Punch's career--examples of which might easily be
multiplied--it is not my purpose to expose shortcomings, but rather to insist on the difficulty
of the humorist's path and the pitfalls that beset genuine originality. "The late Mark Lemon,"
wrote Mr. Hatton, "had a kind of editorial instinct for an old joke. He could identify the
spurious article as easily as an expert detects counterfeit money. Lemon's soul was in Punch,
and he had a keen memory for every line that had appeared in its columns. He edited a book
of humorous anecdotes, but even he overlooked numerous doubles, and left not a few errors for
the detection of the critics;" in fact, was fallible too, as in the nature of things he was
bound to be. And Shirley Brooks, although with his wide knowledge of comic literature and "happy
thoughts" he was successful too, had nevertheless humiliation to bear for blunders not a few.
Tom Taylor neither knew nor cared; as Mr. Labouchere severely said, "he had no sense of humour,"
and the jokes had to take their chance. But to-day a careful eye is kept to this question of
originality, and so far as cartoons are concerned, Sir John Tenniel has always been trusted
to see that subjects for cartoons are not used over again.

Although Punch has tripped now and again, he has been the comic quarry which the nation and
the nation's press have worked for half a century, quoting, borrowing, stealing, a thousand
times to his once. His best ideas are enjoyed and used, and in due time are sent back, often
quite innocently, for re-issue. Nay, even what is popularly known in England as "modern American
humour" has been claimed as a leaf out of Punch's book, quaint exaggeration forming its staple
feature, as in the case where we are told that "a young artist in Picayune takes such perfect
likenesses that a lady married the portrait of her lover instead of the original."

Lastly, a couple of drawings by Mr. du Maurier may be referred to (second volume for 1872,
and first volume for 1894), which created a good deal of amusement at the time of their publication.
In the first case a visitor calls to inquire after the condition of a happy mother. And the
babe, is it a boy? "No," says the page. Ah! a girl. "No," repeats the lad. What is it, then?
asks the startled visitor. "If you please," replies the intelligent retainer, "the doctor said
it was a Heir!" Now, this joke almost textually reproduces a circumstance attending the birth
of that Earl of Dudley of whom Rogers wrote the epigram which Byron thought "unsurpassable":--

  "Ward has no heart, they say; but I deny it;
  He has a heart, and gets his speeches by it."

The second drawing reproduces a story (long since forgotten) of the first Duke of Wellington,
who joined a notorious gambling club, with the express view, it was said, to black-balling
his son, the Marquis of Douro, a likely candidate--and then went complacently and told him so.

Much the same difficulty attending the identification and indexing of the jokes of the past
is experienced in respect to Punch itself. Consider for a moment. That work consisted in the
summer of 1895 of 108 volumes. At the moderate estimate of four jokes per column, attempted
and made, we reach a grand total of nearly 270,000 jokes--a total bewildering in its vastness,
and representing, one would think, all the humour that ever was produced since this melancholy
world began. The mind refuses to grasp such a mass of comicality; how, then, would you classify
this prodigious joviality and sarcasm? How detect a joke that may reappear under a hundred
disguises of time, place, condition, and application--yet the same root-joke after all? Is
it surprising that the same ideas recur--and, recurring, sometimes escape the shrewd eye of
Punch's investigation department?

It has already been said that to Sir John Tenniel it has fallen to prevent the repetition of
subjects in respect to the cartoons. Yet it must not be imagined that others on the Staff are
not as earnest students of Punch's pages, that they have not graduated as Masters of his Arts.
Yet, for all their vigilance, repetitions have often recurred. You remember Tenniel's superb
cartoon of the noble savage manacled with the chains of slavery taking refuge on a British
ship with clasped hands uplifted to the commander? It was at the time of Mr. Ward Hunt's slavery
circular, and was entitled "Am I not a Man and a Brother?" A like subject with the same title
was contributed by Leech on June 1st, 1844, when a manacled negro appeals to Lord Brougham,
who, making "a long nose," hurries off to the Privy Council Office. Similarly have we had two
"Vigils"--one in the spring of 1854, and the other thirty-four years later. And Punch's exclusion
from France, figuratively at Calais Pier, has been the subject of two drawings--the first in
1843,[15] and the other, by Mr. Linley Sambourne, on January 12th, 1878. The repetitions at
such long intervals lose, of course, any such significance as the critical might feel inclined
to attribute; but in Punch's nonage the self-same engravings have more than once been actually
used a second time, such as "Deaf Burke"--the celebrated prize-fighter of Windmill Street--who
was shown twice in the first volume, certainly not for his beauty's sake; a drawing by Hine,
which was similarly employed in the same year; and in 1842 a cut by Gagniet, which had been
bought from a French publication. Perhaps the nearest modern approach to this was when in 1872
Mr. Sambourne practically repeated his figure of Mr. Punch turning round from his easel to
face the reader.

At the time when the Russo-Turkish War was drawing to a close, one of the most powerful of
Tenniel's cartoons--which made a great impression on the country, as giving keen point to Mr.
Gladstone's agitation against Lord Beaconsfield's attitude at that period--was the drawing
of the Prime Minister, leaning back comfortably reading in his armchair, declaring that he
can see nothing at all about "Bulgarian Atrocities" in the Blue Books, though the background
of the picture itself is all violence and butchery. Yet nobody recalled the fact that the artist
had made a similar cartoon of Cobden and Palmerston in the spring of 1857.

Charles Keene certainly had not studied his Punch as he ought. Of that there is abundant proof;
for although the care he took to obtain good and original jokes was conscientious in the extreme,
he over and over again re-drew his own and other people's drolleries. The British grumble of
the British farmer who under no circumstances can be appeased or contented was typified by
Leech in a picture wherein the farmer was represented as looking at a splendid field of heavy
golden corn (p. 96, Vol. XXVII, 1854), but was not satisfied even then. "Ah!" he grumbles,
"see what it'll cost me to get it in!" The idea tickled Keene so greatly when he heard it that,
entirely unmindful of Leech's page, he made a drawing of the same subject on p. 268 of the
first volume for 1878; and then, forgetting all about it, eleven years later (p. 35 of the
second volume for 1889) he actually did it all over again!

"What do you mean by coming home at this time of night?" asks an indignant wife of her tipsy
husband. "My dear," replies the prodigal, with a generous attempt at candour and conciliation,
"all other places shu'rup!" Keene drew this admirably in 1871 (p. 71, Vol. LXI), and Mr. du
Maurier most delightfully again in 1883 (p. 14, Vol. LXXXIV.). These and many more examples
of unconscious receptivity and reproduction by professional humorists will strike the attentive
reader of Punch's pages. He will see how to both Leech and Mr. Ralston occurred the idea of
an over-dressed vulgarian in morning clothes protesting in angry dismay against the opera-house
officials' suggestion that he is not in "full dress;" how both Miss Georgina Bowers (1870)
and Mr. du Maurier were tickled by the retort to the economical dictum that it is extravagant
to have both butter and jam on a slice of bread--"Extravagant? Economical!--same piece of bread
does for both!"; how "Childe Chappie's Pilgrimage" of our day was preceded by "Child Snobson's
Pilgrimage" of 1842; how Mr. du Maurier in November, 1888, and again in the Almanac for 1895
repeated the joke of a husband declaring that he would be "extremely annoyed" if in the event
of his death his wife did not invite certain of his particular friends to his funeral; how
Poe's "Bells" maintain their power to attract the parodist; how curiously tempting to the punster
is the idea of a bashful policeman in the National Gallery being asked where "the fine new
Constable is" (for Mr. Burnand, Charles Keene, and Sir Frank Lockwood have all done it, in
the order indicated); and many other amusing slips of the sort. And he must not on any account
miss those twin jokes--for they are both of them good and in their essence identical--of John
Leech and Mr. du Maurier.

In Mr. du Maurier's version we have a poor woman touting for a bottle of wine for her sick
husband. The doctor had recommended port, she says--"and it doesn't matter how old it is, sir!"
In Leech's the host is impressing on his youthful guest that "that wine has been in my cellar
four-and-twenty years come last Christmas--four-and-twenty years, sir!" And the guileless youth
gushingly makes answer, in the belief that he is making himself remarkably pleasant, "Has it
really, sir? What it must have been when it was new!"

FOOTNOTES:

[13] Compare Shirley Brooks's couplet (1857):--

  "MARRY (AND DON'T) COME UP.

  "A fellow that's single, a fine fellow's he;
  But a fellow that's married's a felo de se."

[14] See Punch, p. 235, Vol. LXI., 1861.

[15] See p. 191.

In describing the Punch Dinner I show how the merry meeting lapses, by a natural transition,
from pleasure to work, and ends with the evolution of the cartoon; how the mist of talk, vague
perhaps and undecided at first, slowly develops a bright nebulous point, round which the discussion
revolves and revolves, until at last it takes form, slowly and carefully, though changed a
dozen times, and finally, after being threshed and threshed again, stands in the ultimate form
in which next week it meets the public eye.

For when the meal is done, and cigars and pipes are duly lighted, subjects are deliberately
proposed in half-a-dozen quarters, until quite a number may be before the Staff. They are fought
all round the Table, and, unless obviously and strikingly good, are probably rejected or attacked
with the good-humoured ridicule and withering scorn distinctive of true friendship and cordial
intimacy. Then is each fully and formally debated, every tussle advancing it a stage, and none
finally accepted until all the others have fallen in the battledore-and-shuttlecock process
to which they have been subjected. Then, when the subject is settled, comes the consideration
of the details--what should the grouping be? what the accessories? how many figures?--(during
the hunting season John Leech would decline to introduce more than two, as his week-end would
otherwise be spoiled)--and other minor yet still important considerations; and then each man's
opinion has its proper weight in the Council of Punch. In this year of grace Mr. Lucy is listened
to with the respect due to his extraordinary Parliamentary knowledge; Mr. Milliken is the chief
literary authority since "the Professor" (Percival Leigh) went to his rest; and so each man
is counted upon for the special or expert knowledge he may bring to bear on the particular
subject then before the meeting.

And when the subject of the cartoon is a political one, the debate grows hot and the fun more
furious, and it usually ends by Tories and Radicals accepting a compromise--for the parties
are pretty evenly balanced at the Table; while Mr. Burnand assails both sides with perfect
indifference. At last, when the intellectual tug-of-war, lasting usually from half-past eight
for just an hour and three-quarters by the clock, is brought to a conclusion, the cartoon in
all its details is discussed and determined; and then comes the fight over the title and the
"cackle," amid all the good-natured chaff and banter of a pack of boisterous, high-spirited
schoolboys.

More than once it has happened that notwithstanding a subject being well on the way to becoming
a cartoon--the raw material of an idea having been almost hammered into a presentable political
missile or social criticism by the heads of the company--a side remark may arrest further labour,
and turn attention in an entirely different direction. Such was the case with one of the most
successful cartoons of recent years. The topic of the week was the Parish Councils Bill, which
was then before the Lords, and was receiving severe handling in that House. In the course of
discussion came an "aside" from Mr. Arthur à Beckett, to the effect that "Gladstone is having
a deuce of a time." "Like the cockatoo," assented Mr. Lehmann, referring to the story of the
unhappy bird which was left for a short while alone with a monkey, and which, when the owner
returned to the room and found his bird clean plucked of its feathers by the monkey--all but
a single plume in the tail--looked up dejectedly, and croaked in tones of almost voiceless
horror, "I've been having a doose of a time!" The remarks were caught at by Mr. Burnand as
a happy thought, and the new idea was tossed like a ball from one to another until there issued
from it the well-known design of the monkey in its coronet, as the House of Lords, having plucked
the cockatoo-Bill of most of its feather-clauses--a drawing which, under the title of "The
Parish Councils Cockatoo," hit off the situation with singular felicity, and reaped the reward
of the public applause. In a similar manner there developed Mr. Sambourne's peculiarly happy
"Cartoon Junior," representing Mr. Gladstone, newly retired, looking up from the perusal of
the first speech made by Lord Rosebery on his promotion to the Premiership--a speech some of
the points of which he afterwards had to withdraw or explain away--with the words, "Pity a
Prime Minister should be so ambiguous!" In the arrangement of these second cartoons, which,
as is elsewhere described, immediately follows the handing of the written-out subject of the
main picture to Sir John Tenniel, a contrast is always the first thing sought for. If the first
deals with foreign politics, the second must treat of home matters, political or social; if
the "senior" is social, the "junior" will be political; if Sir John is realistic, Mr. Sambourne
is idealistic. And if it is impossible so to differentiate them, the prominent figures at least
which appear in the one are carefully avoided in the other.

But in the early years of Punch the method was not so democratic. The matter was discussed,
but the preponderance of two or three of the Staff made their opinions felt to such a degree
that when a subject was proposed by one of them, that subject, when it appeared, was unmistakably
theirs and nobody else's. I have before me the full details of these matters during a considerable
period, and I find that on the whole Douglas Jerrold was the most prolific of suggestors, while
Henry Mayhew (so long as he remained), Gilbert Abbot à Beckett, Mark Lemon, and Horace Mayhew,
roughly speaking, divided the honours between them. Thackeray seldom made a suggestion, and
it is not very often that the entry "Leech solus" is credited to the great cartoonist before
1848. During the years 1845, 1846, and 1847, for instance, Leech alone proposed eleven subjects,
Mark Lemon thirty-five, Henry Mayhew twenty, Horace Mayhew fifteen, Douglas Jerrold sixteen,
Thackeray four, Tom Taylor four, Gilbert à Beckett two, and Percival Leigh two, leaving the
rest to be shared by the united Staff.

The men who have borne the title of Punch's Cartoonist are fifteen in number. Taking them in
the chronological order of their first contribution, not of drawings, but of cartoons to the
paper, they are: 1841, A. S. Henning, W. Newman, Brine, John Leech, and Birket Foster; 1842,
A. "Crowquill," Kenny Meadows, H. G. Hine, and H. Heath; 1843, R. J. Hamerton; 1844, R. Doyle;
1851, John Tenniel; 1852, W. McConnell; 1864, Charles Keene; and 1884 and 1894, Linley Sambourne.[16]

From March 4th, 1843, to September 30th, 1848 (after which, with the exception of one cartoon
in 1849 from Newman, and a few from McConnell in 1852, John Leech and John Tenniel shared the
cartoon-drawing absolutely between them--no other hand making one at all for six-and-thirty
years), there appeared 314 cartoons in about 286 weeks. It sometimes happened that Punch appeared
without a cartoon at all, especially in those parlous cashless days of 1842, and again in 1846
and 1848; but, on the other hand, two cartoons were frequently given in the same number, usually
from different hands, though occasionally Leech would do both. The 314 designs were made up thus:--

  J. Leech             223

  R. Doyle              53

  Kenny Meadows         14

  R. J. Hamerton        10

  H. G. Hine             8

  W. Newman              6

                      ----
                       314 (exclusive of the Almanacs)

--Hamerton having taken Hine's place, Doyle having superseded Hamerton, and Meadows, after
1844, having disappeared. Roughly speaking, from the commencement of Punch to the end of 1894,
there have been 2,750 cartoons in all, and these have been contributed approximately thus:

  Sir John Tenniel      1,860

  John Leech              720

  R. Doyle                 70

  Other Cartoonists       100

                         ----
                        2,750

--representing an amount of thought and artistic achievement colossal in the aggregate, and
perfectly appalling in the case of Leech and Tenniel.

Does it not speak well for the good sense and good digestion of these men that in all these
hundreds and thousands of skits--satires going by their very nature into personal motives and
perhaps into private actions--that the lapses and the mistakes have been nearly as rare as
great auks' eggs? Mr. Gladstone had good reason to say, as he did one day at dinner, that "in
his early days, when an artist was engaged to produce political satires, he nearly always descended
to gross personal caricature, and sometimes to indecency. To-day he noted in the humorous press
(speaking more particularly of Punch) a total absence of vulgarity and a fairer treatment,
which made this department of warfare always pleasing"--which is all very true if we admit
that the function of ridicule and banter as political weapons is to be merely "pleasing." At
any rate, if it be so, it is the knell of all great satire--with the corresponding effect of
making the more caustic and grosser sides of men like Swift impossible. Yet, on the other hand,
so late as 1860, according to Sir Theodore Martin, Punch more than any other paper reflected
the national feeling in such matters as our naval defences; so that in its support of Lord
Lyndhurst in his patriotic agitation it greatly assisted in strengthening the hands of the
Government.

It is interesting, when you know your Punch as you should your Bible, to lean back in your
chair and recall the most striking and important among the three thousand designs, more or
less, that stand out as landmarks in Punch's pages.

The first, of course, for association's sake, is that pageful of "Foreign Affairs" which introduced
Leech to Punch's readers. It appeared in the fourth number, on August 7th, 1841. The "Foreign
Affairs" consist chiefly of groups of foreign refugees to be seen at that time, and even now
in some measure, in the vicinity of Soho and Leicester Square--the political scum of Paris
("Parisites," may they not be called?) and of Berlin. The scroll bearing the title in the middle
of the page is fully signed, with the addition of the artist's sign-manual, which was afterwards
to become known throughout the whole artistic and laughter-loving world--a leech wriggling
in a water-bottle. This début did little justice to Percival Leigh's introduction, for the
block was delivered so late that, containing as it did a considerable amount of work, it made
it impossible for the engraver to finish it in time for the ordinary publishing hour. The usual
means of publication and despatch were consequently missed, and the result was a very serious
fall in that week's circulation. For some time after that Leech drew no more, learning meanwhile
the elementary lesson that large blocks take longer to cut than small ones--or, at least, did
then, before Charles Wells had introduced his great invention of a block that could be taken
to pieces in order that each small square might be given to different hands to engrave. Nevertheless,
even to the end Leech always had a tendency to be late with his cartoons, and half Mark Lemon's
time, according to Edmund Yates and others, was passed in hansom-cabs bowling away to Notting
Hill, Brunswick Square, or to Kensington, where in succession Leech resided.

Yet he could be astonishingly rapid when he liked, and often would he complete a cartoon on
the wood while his Editor smoked a cigar at his elbow. Such a drawing--such a feat--was that
remarkable block of "L'Empire c'est la Paix" (1859), representing Louis Napoleon as a hedgehog
bristling with bayonets, admirable in expression and execution, yet not original in idea--though
it is as likely as not that Leech had never seen, or else had forgotten, the cartoon in the
"Puppet Show" (June, 1854), wherein the Tsar Nicholas appears in a manner precisely similar.
The Dinner had by exception been held on Thursday (March 10th, 1859) instead of on the previous
day; every moment was precious; and Leech proposed the idea for the cartoon, drew it in two
hours, and caught his midday train on the following day, speeding away into the country with
John Tenniel for their usual Saturday hunt.

But in accordance with that strange law of memory that horror, ugliness, and power should spring
to the mind before humour, grace, or beauty, it is the tragic side and passionate purpose of
Punch's career as shown in his cartoons that first arise in one's recollection. And it is (with
but one or two exceptions) exclusively in his cartoons that Leech showed his tragic power.
"The Poor Man's Friend" (1845), in which Death, gaunt and grisly, comes to the relief of a
wretch in the very desolation of misery and poverty, tells as much in one page as Jerrold's
pen, with all its strength and intensity, could make us feel in a score. Ten years later the
same idea was splendidly developed and magnificently realised in the cartoon entitled "General
Février turned Traitor," which not more than once or twice in the whole of Punch's history
has been surpassed either in loftiness of conception or depth of tragedy, or in the tremendous
effect that immediately attended its publication throughout the country.

During the Crimean War the winter of 1854-55 was terrible in its severity, and the sufferings
of our soldiers were appalling. The suspense at home increased the country's emotion as to
the terrors they knew of in the field. The callous statement of the Tsar, therefore, about
that time reported, that "Russia has two generals in whom she can confide--Generals Janvier
and Février," struck indignation and disgust into every British soul. On February 2nd the news
arrived of the death of the Emperor. Popular excitement was intense. Consols rose 2 per cent.,
and the foreign market was in a state of such confusion that brokers refused to cite even a
nominal quotation. Eight days later appeared Leech's cartoon, with its double meaning of superb
power, though it was, no doubt, not the most favourable specimen of the draughtsman's art.
Received by most with wild enthusiasm, by others with condemnation as a cruel use of a cruel
fate, it none the less electrified the country. "Never," writes Mr. Frith, "can I forget the
impression that Leech's drawing made upon me! There lay the Tsar, a noble figure in death,
as he was in life, and by his side a stronger King than he--a bony figure, in General's uniform,
snow-besprinkled, who 'beckons him away.' Of all Leech's work, this seems to be the finest
example. Think how savage Gillray or vulgar Rowlandson would have handled such a theme!--the
Emperor would have been caricatured into a repulsive monster, and Death would have lost his
terrors."

Ruskin compares this cartoon for impressiveness in the perfect manifestation of the grotesque
and caricature in art with Hood's "Song of the Shirt" in poetry.

Just before this Tenniel had given us a fine drawing of England and France--the new allies--as
typified by two splendid specimens of Guards of both nations, standing back to back in friendly
rivalry of height; and the cut achieved such popularity that, under its title of "The United
Service," it was reproduced broadcast on many articles of use, and decorated the backs of playing-cards.

The following year Sir John Tenniel (who though hardly more convincing than Leech, yet by his
power of draughtsmanship and bigness of conception could be far more imposing) produced the
earliest of his magnificent studies of what may be called his "Animal Types" in "The British
Lion Smells a Rat" (1856). This heralded what are in some respects his masterpieces, the Cawnpore
cartoons (1857), the chief of which is "The British Lion's Vengeance on the Bengal Tiger."
Once this fine drawing is seen, of the royal beast springing on its snarling foe, whose victims
lie mangled under its paw, it can never be forgotten. It is a double-page cartoon, splendidly
wrought by the artist at the suggestion of Shirley Brooks; and while it responded and gave
expression to the feelings of revenge which agitated England at the awful events that had passed
at the time of the Indian Mutiny, and served as a banner when they raised the cry of vengeance,
it alarmed the authorities, who feared that they would thereby be forced on a road which both
policy and the gentler dictates of civilisation forbade. Vengeance was the cry; and the wise
and humane counsels of Lord Canning met only with contempt and anger, and rendered him the
most unpopular man of the day.

Soon it was Tenniel's destiny to shine alone in the cartoons of Punch. Leech, in the last few
years of his life, tired with the strain of over-work and ill-health, withdrew more and more
from the making of "big cuts," till towards the end they were left almost entirely in the hands
of his well-loved colleague. Tenniel rose to the position and to the full height of the great
events that courted his pencil. The great American struggle of North and South gave unlimited
opportunity, and for four years Punch, first taking sides hotly against slave-trading, became
at times simply pedagogic in his attitude towards both the combatants. From the time (January
26th, 1861) when there was published "Mrs. Carolina asserting her Right to Larrup her Nigger,"
down to the crowning cartoon of "Habet"--the combatants as gladiators before the enthroned
and imperial negroes ("Ave Cæsar!")--many fine cartoons were issued; but the last-named has
been held by many to be the finest that has ever issued from the artist's pencil. But, in sentiment
at least, a greater was to come--one which helped to melt for us in a measure the hardened
heart of the American nation, at that time distrustful of England, and righteously indignant
at many a taunt that had been launched against her. This was the affecting picture of Britannia's
tribute and Punch's amende honorable, called simply, "Abraham Lincoln: Foully Assassinated
April 14th, 1865," while Shirley Brooks's verses which accompany them take highest rank among
poetry of its kind--lines which, rugged perhaps in themselves, come straight from the heart,
and speak to a whole nation with true emotion and deep sincerity.

Then came "A Leap in the Dark" (1867)--Britannia on her hunter, Dizzy, "going blind" through
the hedge of Reform; and soon after the series on the Franco-Prussian War and the situation
that immediately preceded the outbreak of hostilities, more particularly that (proposed by
Mr. du Maurier) in which the shade of the great Napoleon stands warningly in the path of the
infatuated Emperor; while those that illustrated the close of the struggle, aroused a deeper
sympathy for France than all the leading-articles and descriptive essays put together. Tenniel's
hell-hounds of war, who menace the fallen figure of France distraught, are again seen in the
series, almost as fine, that accompanied and followed the Russo-Turkish struggle. A few months
later heroics were once more set aside for humour, and the celebrated cartoon representing
the successful termination of the Berlin Treaty was given forth--"The Pas de Deux" (1878)--in
which Lords Beaconsfield and Salisbury in official dress are executing their pas de triomphe
with characteristic grace and ineffable mock-seriousness of mien.

Another cartoon that attracted general attention for its exquisite fooling, and that still
haunts the mind of those who can appreciate a completely happy adaptation of text to subject
and situation, is "The Political 'Mrs. Gummidge'" (May, 1885). Mr. Gladstone, as Mrs. Gummidge,
sits in the Peggotty boathouse by the fire, on which a pot of Russian stew is simmering, while
her knitting, marked "Egypt," has fallen from her weary hands, and, the very picture of misery,
moans out: "I ain't what I could wish to be. My troubles make me contrairy. I feel my troubles,
and they make me contrairy. I make the House uncomfortable. I don't wonder at it!!!" To which
Mr. John Peggotty-Bull, pointing with his pipe-stem at the portrait of Beaconsfield on the
wall, mutters (deeply sympathising, aside), "She's been thinking of the old 'un!" It was proposed
by Mr. Burnand.

But Sir John Tenniel's greatest success of all in recent years--artistically and popularly
successful--is undoubtedly the great picture illustrative of Prince Bismarck's resignation
in 1889, entitled "Dropping the Pilot." The subject, it may be stated, was not a suggestion
made at the Table, but it was handed in from the late Gilbert Arthur à Beckett, who was too
ill to attend the Dinner--(he died very soon after)--and who thus, as so many other Punch contributors
have done--Thomas Hood, Artemus Ward, Leech, Gilbert Abbott à Beckett, Charles Bennett, and
others--sent in one of the most valuable of all his suggestions just as his career was drawing
to its close. The idea was immediately accepted, and its excellence fully appreciated. It was
decided that it should occupy a double-page; and Sir John Tenniel, who has always risen to
a great occasion, did the fullest justice to the subject. When the paper was sent round to
the Staff, as it always is, on the Monday night, they foresaw with delight that here was a
great coup, and their conviction received ample confirmation on the publishing-day from the
country at large. There was a world of pathos in the weather-beaten old mariner who goes thoughtfully,
full of doubt and care, down the side of the ship he had originally designed and had since
piloted so long and so well--now discharged as no longer wanted; and there was a world of meaning
in the ambitious and self-reliant young Commander who looks over the ship's bulwark and gazes
at the bent figure of his departing counsellor. The cartoon, said Mr. Smalley, pleased equally
the Emperor and the Prince, for there was that in it which both felt and sought for. The original
sketch for the drawing on the wood was finished by the artist as a commission from Lord Rosebery,
who then presented it to Prince Bismarck. In acknowledging the drawing the ex-Chancellor declared,
"It is indeed a fine one!" "The Hidden Hand"--a criticism on Irish political crime and its
incitement--was another of Gilbert à Beckett's most striking suggestions. It appears on p.
103, Vol. LXXXIV., 1883.

Next I would mention--besides Mr. Sambourne's admirable Jubilee picture of "The Mahogany Tree,"
in which the Proprietors and Staff are gathered round the Table as they toast triumphant Punch
(see Frontispiece)--another cartoon which, nobly conceived, if not quite so fine in execution,
under the title of "Forlorn Hope" (October, 1893--proposed by Mr. Milliken), has been held
by some as second only to "Dropping the Pilot." It is the pathetic picture of Mr. Gladstone
at the moment of his retirement leading the attack against the House of Lords. A grand old
fortress crowning an enormous cliff stands out strongly in evening light against the distant
sky, and the grand old warrior, in coat of mail, is struggling up the steep and slippery side--a
hopeless task, eloquent of the courage of despair.

Last of all upon this list, on May 15th, 1895, was the grand design, also suggested by Mr.
Milliken, entitled "The Old Crusaders!"--Mr. Gladstone and the Duke of Argyll "brothers-in-arms
again" in their crusade against the Turkish persecutions in Christian Armenia--the full significance
being insisted on by parallel dates--"Bulgaria 1876: Armenia 1895." There is an air of unsurpassable
dignity in the design of the two old comrade-statesmen, mounted knights armed cap à pie, riding
forth, representative of Christendom and the nation's conscience. Immediately on seeing the
week's Punch the Marquis of Lorne telegraphed from Windsor to Sir John Tenniel, asking to be
allowed to acquire the original drawing; but he had been forestalled by the other Champion's
son, Mr. Henry Gladstone, who was then in town, and had secured the prize for his family an
hour or two before.

It must not be imagined that the Punch cartoons have always been matters, so to speak, of routine.
The unexpected has more than once left Punch in a terribly awkward fix. On one occasion, in
1877, it was confidently expected that Lord Beaconsfield's Government would be thrown out on
the Monday night or Tuesday morning, when, of course, it would be too late to begin to think
of drawing and engraving a cartoon; besides, the matter was a foregone conclusion. So Beaconsfield
was represented in his robes, leaning back "in a heap" upon his bench, his chin on his breast,
and his hands thrust deep into his breeches pockets, the very picture of a beaten Minister.
But, as it happened, the Government was not defeated--and there was the cartoon! Providentially,
however, the Government had been severely badgered about some matter of trivial importance,
such as the amount of sealing-wax employed in Her Majesty's Stationery Office, and the cartoon
was used with a legend to the effect: "After all the big things I have been in, to be pulled
up for this!" The public wondered, and thought that Punch had taken the situation a little
too seriously; but it was a pis-aller, and the best had been made of a shocking bad job.

Mr. Linley Sambourne, writing on this very matter in the "Magazine of Art," tells something
more of Punch's tribulations: "Difficulties in the production of cartoons sometimes arise in
the impossibilities of foretelling what, not a day only, but a week may bring forth. In December,
1871, when His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, to the profound sorrow of the entire nation,
hovered between life and death, Tenniel drew two cartoons, to be used as events might dictate.
To the intense relief and joy of all, the one that was issued was called 'Suspense,' with some
beautiful verses entitled 'Queen, People, and Princess: "Three Hearts in One";' while the other,
a grief-stricken figure of Britannia, lay almost forgotten in the engraver's bureau, but was
remembered, and had unhappily occasion to appear thirteen years after, on April 5th, 1884,
to note the sudden loss of His Royal Highness the Duke of Albany. Punch is not infallible.
The most serious slip he ever made in the 'cock-sure' line was a cartoon appearing on February
7th, 1885, representing the lamented General Gordon shaking hands with General Sir Henry Stewart
(who himself lay stiff and cold after glorious action) inside the fated city of Khartoum. When
the number appeared (although at the moment unconfirmed), Gordon himself had been butchered
by the Mahdi's fanatics; and another whole week had to elapse before it could be corrected
by a cartoon of baffled Britannia, with the heading 'Too Late!' I well remember being inside
a picture gallery in Bond Street with the Editor, and hearing newsboys shouting without; the
Editor turned to me and smilingly said, 'All right for our cut. There! they're shouting "The
fall of Khartoum"!' When we got outside, our faces fell on finding the boot was on the other
leg with a vengeance."

A more recent example of the tricks played upon Punch by Fate was on August 11th, 1894 (p.
66, Vol. CVII.), when Sir William Harcourt was represented as an artilleryman mowing down the
host of amendments put upon the paper against the Irish Evictions Bill with a Gatling gun labelled
"Closure." Closure had, indeed, been promised, and upon that the cartoon was based; but the
Tory tactics threw out all calculations, for the party declined to move their amendments, and
took no further part in the proceedings, so that there was no question whatever of closure.
The Bill passed en bloc, and the Gatling remained silent.

Finally, there is that class of cartoon always graceful in intention, and invariably received
by the public with respect and approval--the Obituary Cartoon. It was invented by Punch when
Wellington died. The nation was overpowered with a sense of its loss, and Punch, with his finger,
as ever, on the public pulse, reflected the national emotion with a deep and noble sincerity
that was gratefully felt and recognised. From that day onwards the great occasions of a people's
loss--either of our own mourning or of our sympathy with that of others--have been touched
with a dignity and grace in accord with their lofty and solemn purpose, in drawings which have
rarely failed to touch a responsive chord in the people's heart, and which, judged as compositions,
have often marked the highest point to which Sir John Tenniel's art has reached.

FOOTNOTES:

[16] Contributed one cartoon on July 12th, 1884, and another November 3rd, 1894, when the expected
death of the Tsar Alexander III., on the subject of which Sir John Tenniel's cartoon had been
prepared, did not occur. "Cartoon Junior" was then promoted to "Cartoon Senior."

CHAPTER VIII.

CARTOONS AND THEIR EFFECT.

Were you to ask the Editor, Staff, or Proprietors of Punch whether they regarded the political
or the social section of the paper as the more important, from the public point of view and
their own, the answer would probably be--that they could not tell you. Power and popularity,
even in a newspaper--especially in a newspaper--are not synonymous terms, and a great circulation
does not necessarily carry influence along with it. It may safely be taken that while the social
section of Punch, artistic and literary combined, earned for him his vast popularity, his power,
which at one time was great almost beyond present belief, was obtained chiefly by his political
satires with pen and pencil. Nowadays, no doubt, their relative importance is more evenly balanced,
and what preponderating interest the cartoon may have for "Pater" is equalled by the special
fascination exercised by the social picture over "familias."

It has been the mission of Punch, as of many another great and original writer, to invent and
import into the language words and expressions which are surely destined to remain. It has
already been recorded how it was he who christened the great conservatory now at Sydenham "The
Crystal Palace"--though he was not so complimentary until he had cultivated the personal friendship
of Sir Joseph Paxton over the "Daily News" affair. It is he who, in his most laconic manner,
has given his immortal counsel for all time to intending mariés; it is he who has crystallised
the exaggerated idea of Scottish thrift and economy in "bang went saxpence"--to the circumstances
of all of which I have already referred. Mr. Punch, in short, has left the English language
richer than he found it, not only in word, but in idea. So, again, the present application
of the word "cartoon" is in reality a creation of Punch's.

At the birth of the modern satirical print--that is to say, in the reign of Charles I.--we
see it called "A Mad Designe;" eighty years later, when George II. was King, it was known as
a "hieroglyphic;" and then onwards, through the caustic and venomous days of the mighty Gillray
and Rowlandson, and even of George Cruikshank, and their contemporaries, "caricature" was the
term applied to the separate copper-plate broadsides that were issued, crudely coloured, from
the famous shops of Mrs. Humphreys, of Ackermann, of Fores, and of McLean, and displayed in
their windows to the delight and savage applause of a laughing crowd. Then "HB" had followed,
Dicky Doyle's clever father, whose political lithographs had begun to appear in 1830, and continued
until 1851--ceased, that is to say, when Punch was ten years old. The wonder about them was
that, even before the days of photography, the likenesses of his subjects were so admirable,
and his thrusts so happy, while his art, criticised strictly, was so very poor and amateurish.
But as exaggeration found no trace in his designs, and his compositions aimed at raising little
more than a suspicion of a smile in the beholder (save in the subjects of them), the word "cartoon"
was more applicable to them than to any that preceded or have followed them. Mr. Austin Dobson,
it is true, speaks of them as "caricatures;" but their publisher more correctly defined them
as "Political Sketches."

Then, after the little wood-cut "caricatures" by Robert Seymour, came Punch with his full-page
designs. Announced also as "caricatures," for a long while they were known as "pencillings;"
but it was some time before they became an invariable feature of the paper. For several consecutive
weeks, indeed, in 1843 there was no full-page cut at all, until John Leech recommenced them
with a series of "Social Miseries," the first of which represented "Thoughts during Pastorale."
But the most successful and the best remembered was "The Pleasures of Folding Doors" when "The
Battle of Prague" is being thumped out relentlessly on the other side.

Now in July of 1843 the first great exhibition of cartoons for the Houses of Parliament was
held. These gigantic designs handled the loftiest subjects, executed in the most elevated spirit
of the highest art, with a view to ultimate execution in fresco on the walls of the palace
of Westminster. It was not in nature for Punch to allow so excellent an opportunity to pass
by without taking sarcastic advantage of it. He--conformably with his rôle of Sir Oracle, omniscient
and omnifarious--must have his "cartoons" too; and so on p. 22 of the second volume for the
same year (No. 105 of the journal) he appeared with No. 1 of his series. It was from Leech's
pencil, entitled "Substance and Shadow," with the legend "The Poor ask for Bread, and the Philanthropy
of the State accords--an Exhibition." The cartoon represents a humble crowd of needy visitors
to the exhibition of pictures on a suggested "free day," in accordance with the recommendation
of the Government. This design, a suggestion of Jerrold's, affords an excellent example of
the warm-hearted, wrong-headed sympathy with the poor which led him so often cruelly to misjudge
and misrepresent the acts and lives of persons in authority whose views were not, like his
own, spontaneously, kindly, and impulsively unpractical. The series of six cartoons was directed
against abuses, the last, dealing with the subject of duelling, being entitled "The Satisfaction
of a Gentleman"--in which two duellists appear attended by seconds wearing caps and bells,
while the hangman awaits the victor in one corner, and Death digs a grave for his victim in
the other.

After this series Punch for a long while dropped the word "cartoon," but the public remembered
it, and has clung to it ever since. It is a remarkable thing that while the "Encyclopædic Dictionary"
entirely ignores the word in its modern application to satirical prints, Dr. Murray's monumental
lexicon has as its earliest use of the word a reference made by Miss Braddon to Leech's cartoons
in the year 1863--or twenty years after it was first coined!

But the very first number of Punch, as we have seen, rejoiced in a cartoon as we now understand
it--that is to say, a large full-page or double-page block of a satirical nature, usually placed
in the middle opening of the paper, and for the most part still further dignified by being
"unbacked" by other printing. It has been stated that Henry Mayhew at the very beginning insisted
on this being a special feature of the paper, defeating the opposition of "Daddy" Landells,
who was all for a number of little "coots," as he pronounced them, sprinkled plentifully over
the pages. But inasmuch as Landells was an engraver, who would have delighted in the opportunity
offered to his apprentices by a "big cut," as he was anxious above all things to follow the
Paris "Charivari" (the very raison d'être of which was the large political cartoon), and as,
moreover, the original "dummy" of the paper makes provision for such a cartoon, the statement
is not to be accepted.

It was really a poor thing, that first cartoon--"Candidates under Different Phases;" but it
possessed over the little "caricatures" by Robert Seymour in Gilbert à Beckett's "Figaro in
London," that had gone before, the important advantage of size. It was smaller than the hideously
vulgar cuts in the "Penny Satirist," but--in tone, at least--this harmless satire on Parliamentary
candidates displayed a refreshing and a highly appreciated decency and moderation. And since
that time, whether satirical or frankly funny, sarcastic or witty, compassionate or denunciatory,
eulogistic, sympathetic, indignant, or merely expository, the cartoons have rarely overstepped
the boundary of good taste, or done aught but express fearlessly, honestly, and so far as may
be gracefully, the popular feeling of the moment.

It is just this happy ability of Punch's to reflect the opinion of the country that gave it
the great power it attained and won it the respect of every successive Government. It is true
that of late years Mr. Punch has rather followed public opinion than led it; and it is equally
true that he now represents a higher stratum of society than at first, when Jerrold week after
week pleaded the cause of the poor. "What Punch says" appears to be a good deal to the Great
Ones of our world, thick-skinned though they be; for even outside politics, they have, generally
speaking, accepted as an axiom "Vox Punchii, vox Populi;" while Cabinet Ministers, from the
Premier downwards, have hoped from his benevolence and feared from his hostility! When Mr.
Mundella publicly declared that "Punch is almost the most dangerous antagonist that a politician
could have opposed to him--for myself I would rather have Punch at my back in any political
or social undertaking than half the politicians of the House of Commons," he was merely expressing
a conviction on the part of statesmen that many of them have given evidence of. It is another
proof of the power of the caricaturist--a very proper respect for the smile which brings popularity
and for the ridicule which kills.

We all know the effect of Gillray's, Rowlandson's, and George Cruikshank's etching-needles
upon their victims--how these latter would writhe under a stab that was often virulent in its
brutality, merciless, scurrilous, and cruel. We know how money passed--at least, in their earlier
years--to influence the political opinions of the caricaturists, less in the hope of damaging
"the other side" than with the view to diluting with a little milk of human kindness their
etchers' aquafortis; and we know how Cruikshank's sudden abandonment of political caricature
has been generally attributed (without drawing forth any denial) to a very special communication
of a remunerative sort from Windsor Castle. That, however, was owing rather to his remorseless
gibbeting of the follies and scandals of the Court than to political attack or personal persecution;
but other circumstances of a more serious, because of an international, character have now
and again attended the publication of a caricature. For example, like the Hi-Talleyrand episode,
Leech's famous cartoon of "Cock-a-doodle-do!" (February 13th, 1858) promised at one time--less
directly, it is true--to bring unpleasant consequences in its train. In the spirit of the Prince
de Joinville, whose bombastic language towards England in 1848 had set an example not to be
resisted, were the fire-eating words of a few French officers, who offered to "unsheathe their
swords and place them at their sovereign's disposal," and so forth. Leech replied with a cartoon
of a Gallic cock, capped and spurred, flapping its epaulettes and crowing its loudest, while
Napoleon the Third curses the "Crowing Colonel" under his breath. "Diable!" he says, "the noisy
bird will awake my neighbour;" and the point is emphasised by a quotation from the Moniteur.
The hit, if not quite original (for Doyle had made a precisely similar sketch of "Le Coq Gaulois"
twelve years before in "The Almanac of the Month") was, at any rate, a fair one. But some unscrupulous
British patriot so took the matter into his own scurvy hands that the following advertisement
was published in "The Times" of March 10th:--

     "Fifty Pounds Reward.--It having come to the knowledge of the
     Committee of the Army and Navy Club that a caricature, with most
     coarse and vulgar language appended thereto, was sent to an officer
     in command of a French regiment, accompanied with a forged message
     from the club, the above reward will, within six weeks from this
     date, be paid by the Secretary of the Club on the conviction and
     punishment of the offender."

And so the affair was amicably settled, but not before correspondence of a lively character
had passed between both the insulted parties, and it was feared that the matter might be taken
up as "an insult to the French Army."

Many a time has Punch been excluded from France--beginning as early as February 11th, 1843--by
reason of his political cuts. In the first half-volume for that year a cartoon entitled "Punch
turned out of France"--showing a very sea-sick puppet received on Boulogne quay at the point
of a bayonet--first made public the severity of his struggle with Louis Philippe. There is
no doubt that his denunciations approached about as near to scurrility as ever he was guilty
of; and it is equally true that the French King winced under the attacks made with such acerbity
upon his well-known parsimony. In due time, on April 7th, the embargo was lifted, but again
in the following year an article by Thackeray, entitled "A Case of Real Distress," in which
Punch offers to open a subscription for the poor beggar, with a cut by the same hand representing
the King as a "Pauvre Malheureux," had the effect of a fresh exclusion. Punch responded vigorously,
his first proceeding being to advertise, "Wanted--A Few Bold Smugglers" in order that he "may
continue to disseminate the civilisation of his pages throughout benighted France."

And so on several occasions, especially during the period of his long hostility to Napoleon
III., was Punch turned back from the French frontier, though later on the authorities permitted
him to enter, on the condition that, like a Mahometan who leaves his slippers at the temple
door, he tore out his cartoon before he passed inside. Of late years, however, Punch has on
the whole been on excellent terms with "Mme. la Republique," chiefly through his own forbearance
during the period of what promised to be the Anglo-Congolese Difficulty. It is true that the
cartoon of November, 1894, showing the French Wolf about to spring upon the Madagascar Lamb,
aroused fine indignation in Paris at this English version of the methods of French colonial
expansion; and that the famous picture of Marshal MacMahon of a score of years before, in which
the President was shown stuck fast in the political mud, obstinately satisfied with his impossible
position ("J'y suis!--J'y reste!"?), gave equal offence on the boulevards; and although in
the latter case the fairness of the hit was acknowledged, Punch was again, as he had several
times recently been, placed under ban. Again, at the time of the Franco-Russian rapprochement
and consequent fêtes, the drawing of the Bear and Republic in cordial tête-à-tête, the former
disclosing the true source and object of his new-found affection by hinting, with a sly wink
and a smirk, about a "little loan," gave rise to real anger, and was deeply resented--probably
with the more annoyance that the cutting truth with which Punch had hit off the situation was
secretly and unwillingly recognised. But save on one occasion no official expulsion or repulse
has in recent times been Punch's lot. Moreover, his splendid series of cartoons, nobly conceived
and full of generous sympathy, which he published towards the close of the Franco-Prussian
War, are still remembered with some approach to gratitude in a country which has rarely, if
ever, returned us the compliment of kindliness or friendship, or even of courtesy, in its satiric
press.

Even in Germany, though Punch has not often been denied admittance, he has had at least one
distinguished door closed against him. This was when in March, 1892 (p. 110 in the first half-yearly
volume), Mr. Linley Sambourne's "cartoon junior" was published, satirising the German Emperor
in "The Modern Alexander's Feast; or, The Power of Sound"--

  "With ravished ears
  The Monarch hears;
  Assumes the god,
  Affects to nod,
  And seems to shake the spheres."

The German Army Bill agitation--the struggle between Emperor and Reichstag, which was followed
with so much interest in England--was then at its height; and the monarch had no mind for trivialities.
Punch's candour in illustrating the title given him in this country of "The Shouting Emperor,"
so it is alleged, annoyed him. "For nearly forty years," said one authority, "Punch has been
regularly taken in at the Prussian royal palaces in Berlin and Potsdam. The Emperor William
has just issued a private order that Punch is to be struck off the list of journals which are
supplied to him; and the Empress Frederick, Prince Henry of Prussia, and all the members of
the Royal Family who are in the habit of reading English journals, have been desired by their
aristocratic relation to discontinue the obnoxious periodical. It is understood at Berlin that
the Emperor's wrath has been excited by some jocular allusions to his Majesty's oratorical
indiscretions which recently appeared in Punch." If the members of the Imperial Family scrupulously
obeyed the alleged command, they lost the enjoyment of a hearty laugh over Punch's retort--for
it is Punch's habit always to retort in matters of this sort when his fun is misunderstood
or his irony, in his opinion, taken in ill-part. This was the much-talked-of "Wilful Wilhelm"--representing
the Emperor, à la Struuwelpeter, as a passionate fractious child, screaming amid his toy soldiers
and drums:

  "Take the nasty Punch away;
  I won't have any Punch to-day."

Nor would he leave him alone for a while; but returning a year later to the charge, and taking
as a text the Emperor's words--

     "It was impossible for me to anticipate the rejection of the Army
     Bills, so fully did I rely upon the patriotism of the Imperial Diet
     to accept them unreservedly. A patriotic minority has been unable
     to prevail against the majority.... I was compelled to resort to a
     dissolution, and I look forward to the acceptance of the Bills by
     the new Reichstag. Should this expectation be again disappointed, I
     am determined to use every means in my power to achieve my
     purpose...."

Punch promptly produced his cartoon a third time, by Mr. Sambourne's pencil, of "Nana would
not give me a bow-wow!--A Pretty Little Song for Pettish Little Emperors," as the latest Teutonic
version of the music-hall ditty then in vogue. And later on there was Sir John Tenniel's contribution
to the pretty little quarrel, in which in "Alexander and Diogenes" (October, 1893) the Emperor
asks, "Is there anything I can do for you? Castle? or anything of that sort?" and Bismarck
Diogenes grunts his reply, "No--only leave me to my tub!" But the Emperor's anger did not last
long--if it ever existed at all--for it was announced that he again received his Punch regularly,
but, to save appearances, it arrived from London every week in an official-looking envelope,
which was opened by the Kaiser's own hands, and by him duly stowed away in his library.

If Punch, by his outspoken criticism, has succeeded in raising the ire of two of the most civilised
of the Great Powers, it was not to be expected that he should escape the blacking-roller of
the Russian censor of the press. The touchiness of that official does credit rather to his
zeal than to his judgment--and, besides, he is obviously no humorist. The Russians have had
little opportunity of learning what is thought of them and their governors at 85, Fleet Street.
Time after time has the cartoon been destroyed; and Mr. Sambourne, journeying in the country,
learned by personal experience that Moscow and St. Petersburg were not as London and Paris.
"Should it happen," he writes, "that any cartoon or cut at all trenched on Russian subjects,
and especially his Majesty the Tsar, the page was either torn out or erased in the blackest
manner by the Bear's paw. I have seen some of Mr. Tenniel's cartoons so maltreated, and have
myself been frequently honoured in the same way." It is therefore rather amusing that while
such drawings as Sir John Tenniel produced when the great Nihilistic wave was sweeping over
Russia, just before the renewed application of the repressive system during the reign of Alexander
III. and during the horrors of the Jewish persecutions, Punch would appear on the Tsar's table
with cartoons far more severe and humiliating than the majority of those which appealed to
the censor's sense of despotism. Of this Lord Augustus Loftus gives a remarkable example--remarkable,
too, for the Ambassador's diplomatic ingenuity--his story referring to a period on the eve
of the Russo-Turkish War.

"The Emperor had a favourite dog called Milord, which never left him. We were dining at the
palace, and it being a small party (there were only the Imperial Family and Court attendants),
we retired after dinner to the Empress's private apartments. I suddenly heard the Emperor calling
'Milord!' and supposed that he was calling for me; but it was his dog that was wanted, to receive
the biscuits which his Majesty was in the daily habit of bestowing on his favourite. I immediately
hastened to his Majesty, and learnt the explanation from the Emperor, who was highly amused
at the incident.

"At the time his Majesty was seated in an inner saloon (a sort of alcove), and placed near
him was a small table, on which was a number of Punch, with a cartoon representing the Sovereigns
of Austria, Russia, and Germany at a whist table, the Emperor of Russia holding down his hand
with a card. The Emperor put the paper in my hand, and said, 'Expliquez-moi cela.' I felt the
difficulty of the situation, and to collect my thoughts asked to be permitted to study it.
After a short time I said--

"'Oh, sire, it is quite clear. The political European position is here represented by a whist
party, and your Majesty is represented apparently as hesitating whether to continue the game.'

"It was a perplexing question, and I felt very much as Daniel may have felt when called upon
to explain 'Nebuchadnezzar's dream!'"

I was suggesting just now that to Cabinet Ministers the attitude of Punch is often a matter
of very real concern--at least, that they seem usually to have attached more importance to
the matter than we who stand outside would think to be reasonable; though, from a proper sense
of the ridiculous doubtless, Ministers have rarely turned upon Punch to rend him, for all they
may have suffered at his hands.

There is a pretty story of Lord John Russell that is at once a charming proof to the statesman's
magnanimity and of the paper's influence. When the excitement, already referred to, of the
so-called "Papal Aggression" was at its height, in consequence of the action of the Pope in
creating Roman Catholic Archbishops and Bishops with English territorial titles, Lord John,
who was then in power, took an active part in the House of Commons on the side of the scaremongers,
by introducing the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill--in respect to which he was strenuously opposed
by both Bright and Cobden--not in order to put repressive measures into force against the Catholics,
he assured the House, but simply "to insist upon our ascendency." Or, as he explained in 1874,
"The object of that Bill was merely to assert the supremacy of the Crown. It was never intended
to prosecute. Accordingly, a very clever artist represented me, in a caricature, as a boy who
had chalked up 'No Popery' upon a wall[17] and then ran away. This was a very fair joke....
When my object had been gained, I had no objection to the repeal of the Bill." This gave Leech
his chance, and he executed his famous cartoon of 'No Popery!' (March 22nd, 1851), which was
among the greatest popular successes ever published by Punch--even his smart young rival, the
"Man in the Moon," declaring that Punch had with his cut "wakened up those whom his letterpress
had sent to sleep."

In his Reminiscences the Rev. William Rogers, Rector of St. Botolph's, Bishopsgate, tells the
delightful sequel. When he called on Lord John, the Minister began to talk about the Charterhouse.
"He said that he had lost his interest in the latter since his patronage had been taken away.
I thought this pretty good for Whig doctrine. 'No,' he went on, 'I never abused my patronage.
Do you remember a cartoon in Punch where I was represented as a little boy writing 'No Popery'
on a wall and running away?' I said that I did. 'Well,' he continued, 'that was very severe,
and did my Government a great deal of harm; but I was so convinced that it was not maliciously
meant that I sent for John Leech, and asked him what I could do for him. He said he should
like a nomination for his son to Charterhouse, and I gave it him." This, surely, if it be true--for
Mr. Silver has a very different story--was a "retort courteous" that would prove how deeply
the cartoon went home. Were it true, it would show how the independence of Leech could be in
no wise affected--though, going to the House one day, he was greatly struck with the extraordinary
dignity of the Minister during his speech in the great debate on foreign policy (February 17th,
1854), when the Crimean War with Russia threatened.

In Mr. Gladstone's "great Edinburgh speech" of the autumn of 1893 the veteran Premier said
that Punch, "whenever it can, manifests the Liberal sentiments by which it was governed from
the first." And naturally, as a consistent Liberal supporter, it as consistently attacked the
Tory party. Says Mr. Ruskin in one of his lectures on "The Art of England:" "You must be clear
about Punch's politics. He is a polite Whig, with a sentimental respect for the Crown, and
a practical respect for property. He steadily flatters Lord Palmerston, from his heart adores
Mr. Gladstone. Steadily, but not virulently, caricatures Mr. D'Israeli; violently and virulently
castigates assault upon property in any kind, and holds up for the general idea of perfection,
to be aimed at by all the children of heaven and earth, the British Hunting Squire, the British
Colonel, and the British sailor."

This persistent opposition to Disraeli throughout his whole career--an hostility more bitter
than perhaps might have been expected from Ruskin's "polite Whig"--was esteemed at its full
importance by the object of it, though it was accepted by him, as similar attacks are accepted
by all great minds, in excellent part. Nevertheless, after only three or four years of attack,
he made a determined though unsuccessful attempt to conciliate his pungent critic. Vizetelly,
in his "Glances Back through Seventy Years," tells the story with all the interest belonging
to a personal recollection.

"In the summer of 1845," he says, "Mr. Disraeli took the chair at the annual dinner of the
'Printers' Pension Society,' when the stewards, of whom I was one, received him in the drawing-room
of the 'Albion,' in Aldersgate Street. Immediately after his entrance he posted himself in
a nonchalant fashion with his back to the mantelpiece, and his thumbs in his waistcoat pockets,
an attitude Thackeray was fond of assuming, and began to chat familiarly with those near him.
In a minute or two he asked if Mr. Leech was present (Leech was one of the stewards), as if
he would like to make his acquaintance. The famous Punch caricaturist thereupon stepped forward,
and was duly introduced. Disraeli showed himself particularly gracious, and warmly congratulated
the artist, whose pencil had lately been employed in satirising him in a disparaging fashion,
depicting him as a nice young man for a small party, i.e. the Young England party, as a Jew
dealer in cast-off notions, and as a young Gulliver before the Brobdingnag Minister (Sir R.
Peel). Disraeli tried his hardest to ingratiate himself with the distinguished caricaturist,
but Leech, proof against the wiles of the charmer, rejoined some months afterwards with the
famous cartoon wherein Disraeli, who had lately proclaimed that, although the cause was lost,
there should be some retribution for those who betrayed it, figured as a spiteful ringletted
viper, and Peel as a smiling unconcerned old file.

"During the dinner the chairman did his best to make himself pleasant, and hobbed and nobbed
unreservedly with his immediate neighbours.... When the toasts had been drunk and the secretary
had read out the list of subscriptions and the quiet family-men had hurried off to catch the
last suburban omnibus, Mr. Disraeli showed no disposition to vacate the chair. Seeing this,
the remaining guests drew up to his end of the table, and a lively discourse ensued, in which
a casual allusion to Punch was made. Disraeli profited by this by rising to his feet, and in
a clever and amusing speech proposed the health of Mr. Punch, towards whom, he protested, he
felt no kind of malice on account of any strictures, pictorial or verbal, which that individual
might have passed upon him. Everybody entered into the spirit of the joke, and after the toasts
had been drunk, calls were made indifferently upon Lemon and à Beckett, both of whom were present,
to respond. Mark, however, rose, and in a brief and witty speech returned thanks for the honour
that had been done, as he neatly put it, to an absent friend.

"Disraeli's amiable advances availed him nothing. For a long time afterwards Punch gave no
quarter to the 'Red Indian of debate' who, as Sir James Graham pithily phrased it, 'cut his
way to power with a tomahawk.' The time came, however, when Disraeli could show his magnanimity.
Leech, who had satirised him weekly, and so familiarised everyone with his face and figure
that an aristocratic little damsel, on being presented to him, exclaimed, 'I know you! I've
seen you in Punch!'--Leech had had a pension given to him by the Liberals, and when he died
the pension would have died with him, had not Disraeli, who had at last risen to power, interposed
and secured it to the family." And so Leech, who apparently could not make an enemy, was indebted
to the generosity of his victims for two of the greatest services that were rendered to him
and his.

Lord Beaconsfield himself acknowledged in his latest book, "Endymion," his respect for Punch's
influence at that time, as well as his desire to temper the ardour of its attacks if not to
secure its silence, for he there explains how the hero, who to some degree at least is to be
considered an autobiographical study, "flattered himself that 'Scaramouche'" would regard him
in a more friendly spirit. Punch, with pardonable pride, devoted a cartoon to this pointed
reference, but merely remarking, "H'm--he did flatter himself," abated not one jot of his caustic
criticism.

But for all the failure of his advances, and for all his sensitiveness--so far as he could
be said to be sensitive at all--Beaconsfield kept a close eye on Punch, and kept many, if not
all, of the cartoons in which he figured. Similarly did Napoleon III. love to collect all those
of himself which he could obtain, and pore over them at intervals, even in those sadly fallen
times he spent at Chislehurst. And he had material for reflection enough, for in no way, I
take it, can a public man learn what a world of savagery, hatred, cruelty, and uncharitableness
lies, not so much in man's mind, but in that corner of it which we euphemistically term his
"humour," as in following the handiwork of the political caricaturist of France. Mr. Spurgeon,
too, used to keep all the cartoons and caricatures that sought to turn him to ridicule; and
Lord Beaconsfield, like the Prince Consort, Lord Randolph Churchill (who possessed several
of the original Punch drawings into which he had been introduced), among other politicians
of the day, kept these artistic instruments of political torture before him, as a man treasures
in his locket the hair of the dog that bit him. A visitor to Hughenden gave, in the "Dublin
Mail," an interesting illustration of this tribute to the comic press. He was waiting in an
ante-chamber, "and while passing the time my attention was attracted to a clever sketch of
the then Prime Minister, depicted as Hamlet, seated at a table covered with innumerable documents,
the text quotation being, 'The time is out of joint. O Cursed spite, That [ever] I was born
to set it right!' I was smiling at the picture, which, I may add, was a cut out of Punch, and
framed, when the Prime Minister entered with the gentleman who was to present me, and finding
me gazing at the sketch Lord Beaconsfield said, 'Yes, that is one of the best caricatures of
me that has yet appeared, and, strange to say, the artist has neither presented me with donkey's
ears nor cloven hoofs. I feel very much flattered!' Lord Beaconsfield took an interest in all
the caricatures that appeared of him, and at the time he died he had several hundreds in his
possession."

Mr. Gladstone, who, we have often been assured, has not the gift of humour, has at least enjoyed
Punch's good-natured yet occasionally severe raillery, and in the same Edinburgh speech to
which reference has already been made, he recalled with much relish how, in connection with
the rejection of the Paper Duty Bill, he was represented in a cartoon as being decorated by
the triumphant Lord Derby--the Lord Derby of that day, who led the House of Lords--with an
immense sheet of paper made into a fool's-cap, which he dropped upon his head. Mr. Goschen
took a still more exalted view of Punch's prestige when he declared (at Rugby, November, 1881)
that "he had since attained to the highest ambition which a statesman can reach--namely, to
have a cartoon in Punch all to himself."

But hardly less important, in many a public man's opinion, than the sardonic significance of
Punch's treatment of him in the cartoon, is the degree of facial resemblance achieved by the
artist. It is undeniable that a likeness which is only half a likeness will often rob an otherwise
admirable cartoon of half its success, just as it was oftentimes the excellence of the portraiture
which more than counterbalanced the weakness of HB's sketches. Lord Brougham always flattered
himself that Punch's portraits of him did not do him justice, and John Forster, in his "Life
of Dickens," bears witness to it. But another writer, on the contrary, states that Lord Brougham
"himself admits that the Punch likenesses are the best. Of course, they are a little exaggerated,
but not so much so as many with whom I have chatted on the subject are apt to suppose;" while
Motley, the American Minister, declared, after an official meeting with the grim old lord,
"He is exactly like the pictures in Punch, only Punch flatters him. The common pictures of
Palmerston and Lord John Russell are not at all like, to my mind; but Brougham is always hit
exactly." Leech, indeed, enjoyed nothing more than caricaturing him, one of the most precious
butts Punch ever took to himself, until he was twitted in the "Puppet-Show" at the liberties
he took: "The proprietors will be compelled to widen the columns of their journal ... to show,
as far as space will admit, to what lengths a nose may go in the hands of an unprincipled illustrator."
But it was not only that Punch delighted in toying with Lord Brougham's cantankerousness and
his peculiarities of manner and diction--as in the famous cartoon of Lord Brougham as Mrs.
Caudle, of the original sketch for which a reproduction is given opposite--but he steadily
carried into execution his threat of earlier days, to drag Lord Brougham "in the mire." He
has been as good as his word ever since the day when Dicky Doyle drew the famous cover which
is familiar to us all--that is to say, in 1849--for, as you will see if you will refer to last
week's Punch, a young faun in the grand procession that appears as a relievo upon the podium
or base draws along the mask of Brougham by a string. But without doubt one of the most successful
cartoons Leech ever drew, and the most humorous portrait of Brougham, represented him as a
clown at Astley's, going up to the splendid ring-master, the Duke of Wellington (as Mr. Widdicomb
of Astley's Amphitheatre) and saying "Well, Mr. Wellington, is there anything I can do for
you--for to run, for to fetch, for to carry, for to borrow, for to steal?" As Lord Brougham
was suspected of undue complaisance towards the Duke at the time, the neatness of the political
allusion was received with extraordinary favour by the public.

Another admirable portrait, consistently good, was that of Sir Robert Peel: so good, indeed,
that when it was proposed to erect a statue to the statesman, and the best of all likenesses
was sought as a guide to the sculptor--a resemblance truthful in feature and natural expression--the
choice fell on a cartoon by Leech, and according to that drawing the head was modelled. Palmerston,
too, was not a little impressed when in Wales a postman spoke to him as though he knew him,
and replied, when questioned as to the recognition, "Seen your picture in Punch, my lord."

But Punch, it must be admitted, has often departed from the solemn truth, both unintentionally
and of malice aforethought. It was his common practice to put a straw into Lord Palmerston's
mouth. Palmerston, of course, never did chew straws; but one was adopted as a symbol to show
his cool and sportive nature. Many a time has that straw formed the topic of serious discussion
by serious writers. Some have pretended that it was designed to typify an expression used by
one of his admiring followers in the House--a tribute to his "stable character;" others have
said that it became his attribute from the time that he described himself as "playing the part
of judicious Bottle-Holder to the pugnacious Powers of Europe;" and Mark Lemon declared that
it was simply used as a sort of trade-mark whereby he might be known again, just as Mr. Harry
Furniss invented Mr. Gladstone's collars, Lord Randolph Churchill's diminutiveness, and exaggerated
those complacent smiles and oily rippling chins of Sir William Harcourt, continuing them long
after the time when Sir William could boast the local portliness no more. However, it is certain
that the sprig of straw, which really referred only to his pure devotion to the Turf, from
1815 onwards, was first used in 1851, just after the whimsical "Judicious Bottle-Holder" declaration,
and, as a matter of fact, added not a little to Palmerston's popularity, as not only representing
the Turf, but a Sam Weller-like calmness, alertness, and good-humour.

Similarly both Leech and Tenniel were in the habit of giving Bright an eye-glass. "Some of
us remember seeing him wear a coat with a stand-up collar in the House of Commons," said a
writer in the "Daily Telegraph," "and a broad-brimmed hat; but 'why,' he used to ask with a
merry face, 'did Punch always put an eye-glass in my eye? I never wore a single eye-glass!'"
That was just the point; for no doubt the simple reason was that the addition of a monocle
was supposed to lend a sort of rakish appearance to the solemn Quaker, and belonged to the
same genus of perverse jocularity as that which suggested three hats as the humorous covering
for young Disraeli's head. Mr. W. H. Smith in like manner genially protested at a complimentary
dinner in 1877 against the liberties taken with his person. "As to Punch," he said, "whose
remarks have been mentioned, I beg leave to say that I do not go to sea in uniform, or exhibit
those very queer expressions of face depicted by Punch's artists."

There are some men whose physiognomies defy the deftest pencils. Such a one was Cobden, whose
views Punch represented far more faithfully and sympathetically than his face. At the Cobden
dinner of 1884 Lord Carlingford drew fresh attention to the point: "Cobden's was, for some
reason which I never heard explained, a most difficult face to sketch, and Punch was in despair
at the impossibility of producing a caricature that could be recognised without explanatory
text. Many of the artists tried Cobden, and were floored over him. Leech and Tenniel both confessed
that they could not hit the familiar expression. Somehow, they never did hit it, though photography
came by-and-by to their aid." The statement is perfectly true, but the reason is not hard to
find: simply that a shaven face, without well-marked features or strong lines of character,
and, above all, without angularities, gives the artist extremely little to "take hold of."
For that reason such faces as those of Lord Rosebery, Mr. Asquith, and Mr. John Morley (of
the latter of whom Mr. Furniss used to say the true characteristic expression is only to be
found in his red cravat) are as often failures as successes, in even the skilfullest hands.
It is the fault of neither the artist nor the person misrepresented; according to Mr. Lucy--it
is "the act of God."

Before the days of photography the work of the caricaturist was harder than it is now. Draughtsmen
had to be familiar with the faces of the leading men of the day--even as Leech was, by "getting
them" into their sketch-books by hook or by crook, or else they would accept the portrait already
published by a brother-artist. Even to-day it sometimes occurs that a man of importance has
not been photographed. In that case he must be sketched or remembered, or his portrait "faked
up" on the block until it bears some resemblance to the person required. But, passing from
mere portraiture to the realisation of ideas, the artist feels his liberty, and gives his genius
full rein. Thus it is that Punch has always been happy and successful in his "types." It is
thoroughly in the spirit of caricature that types should be established and adhered to in order
to express, in symbolic form, nations and even ideas. Not only is it poetical, it is convenient;
and has perforce been adopted in every country where political caricature is employed, though
with standards and notions very different from our own. In Italy, for example, and in a minor
degree in Germany, John Bull, as the symbol of Great Britain, is usually represented by a travesty
of Punch's, with a brutal head and bandy legs, and the whole figure bent in body to suggest
a bull, horns sometimes protruding beside the hat; while Russia is courteously represented
as a frantic Cossack of terrific mien, brandishing a knout with violent and savage intent.
We may claim that our types, as invented by Punch, are of immeasurable superiority, whether
of conception or of realisation. Our John Bull--a lineal descendant probably of Gillray's favourite
representation of George the Third as "Farmer Gearge"--is a fine noble fellow enough as drawn
by Leech and developed by Tenniel; indeed, in the drawings of the latter may often be seen
the idealised face of Mark Lemon, his jovial Editor.

This view of the type of England has attracted the attention of Ruskin. "Is it not surely,"
he asks, "some overruling power in the nature of things, quite other than the desire of his
readers, which compels Mr. Punch, when the squire, the colonel, and the admiral are to be at
once expressed, together with all that they legislate or fight for, in the symbolic figure
of the nation, to present the incarnate Mr. Bull always as a farmer--never as a manufacturer
or shopkeeper--and to conceive and exhibit him rather as paymaster for the faults of his neighbours
than as watching for opportunity of gain out of their follies?" And again, "... considering
Punch as the expression of the popular voice, which he virtually is, and even somewhat obsequiously,
is it not wonderful that he has never a word to say for the British manufacturer, and that
the true citizen of his own city is represented by him only under the types either of Sir Pompey
Bedell or of the more tranquil magnate and potentate, the bulwark of British constitutional
principles and initiator of British private enterprise, Mr. John Smith?"

It is true that Punch has imposed upon a nation a character which, as depicted, is unknown
in the land, and placed him in a line of business notoriously dissimilar from that in which
he really engages; and the sum-total of it all is greatly to the credit of Mr. Punch's influence.
He has, in fact, "educated" a nation. For to this day, no sooner does each succeeding Wednesday
spread the new issue over the country than a mass of newspapers, both in England and in the
colonies, immediately describe and discuss "This week's cartoon" for the edification of their
readers. And so we have come to accept these types until they have almost grown into concrete
ideas--conventions which have been given to us chiefly by Sir John Tenniel--Britannia and Father
Time, the New Year and the Old, Cousin Jonathan (or Uncle Sam) and Columbia, Death and Crime,
Starvation and Disease, Peace and War, Justice and Anarchy, the British Lion (might not the
symbol nowadays be more appropriately the British Racehorse?), the Bengal Tiger, the Russian
Bear, the Eagle, and all the rest. And could they well be bettered?

FOOTNOTES:

[17] it was on Cardinal Wiseman's door, not upon a wall.

Though for many years Punch has claimed to be "everybody's friend," he would certainly not
have done so during the earlier part of his career. Then he was constantly in the wars, not
merely because he was criticising public men, attacking abuses, and making sport of his favourite
butts; but because he had not yet learned to break away from the journalistic duelling that
prevailed. In these more sophisticated days it is the usual aim of every prominent journal
to ignore as far as possible the existence of its rivals; then, it was thought that that existence
could be best undermined, if not absolutely cut short, by direct attack. Party spirit ran very
high; and to Punch's undoubted strengthen serious writing was added a power of pungent wit
and sarcasm unequalled by any rival. He thus became a very formidable adversary; and he knew
it. But he did not put forth his full strength until he felt sure of his own firm establishment;
nor did he turn his bâton upon his brothers in the press until he had made a lively start upon
individual statesmen and private persons, and formally set them up as his own particular Aunt
Sallies for private and public practice.

His first onslaught on the daily press was made upon the "Morning Post" (p. 126, Vol. IV.),
by the hand, not of Thackeray, as has hitherto been believed, but of Douglas Jerrold, under
the title of "The 'Post' at the Opera." The tone of that newspaper was irresistible to the
democrats of Punch; and Thackeray, Leech, and à Beckett took up the running with great glee.
Jerrold and Thackeray chose to personify the paper by the creation of "Jenkins," and the "Jenkins
Papers" soon became a recognised feature and one of the standard jokes of the paper. Leech's
illustrations were every bit as good as the others' text; and even when the gentle Hine was
called upon to make sketches upon the same subject, he found himself inspired like the rest.
"Jenkins," the toady, and "Lickspittleoff," his "Russian editor," were grand sport in the office,
and their example was followed--not a little to their disgust--by the "Great Gun" and other
papers. Soon after his first introduction (p. 123, Vol. V.) "Jenkins" was cast aside as a joke
played out, and Thackeray took leave of him in the following amazing lines:--

"PUNCH'S PARTING TRIBUTE."

  "Oh! Jenkins, homme du peuple--mangez bien![18]
  Désormais avec toi nous ferons rien,
  Vous êtes tout usé--chose qui montre la corde,[19]
  Nos lecteurs étaient mal de toi d'abord;
  Allez-vous-en--votre bâton coupez vite,
  En Ponch jamais votre nom--désormais sera dite."

But when the possibilities of "Jenkins" were fully realised, he was revived, and for some years
did excellent service as a subject for humorous attack.

A more serious campaign upon which Punch now entered was that against the "Standard" and the
"Morning Herald." He had with some astuteness, and doubtless not without sincerity, ranged
himself on the side of the "Times," and threw himself into the fray with all the zest and some
of the irresponsibility of the licensed jester.[20] "Martin Chuzzlewit" had already seized
upon the town, and the names of Mrs. Gamp and Mrs. Harris were on everybody's lips. Punch chose
to assume that the "Morning Herald" and the "Standard"--morning and evening papers then which
represented the Conservative party, both of them until 1857 belonging to one proprietor--were
edited respectively by the two ladies aforesaid. The "Standard" was very wroth. It would not
have been so sore perhaps at being dubbed "Betsy Prig;" but, being in fact almost a reprint
of the "Herald," the suggestion of "Mrs. Harris"--a creature of no existence, the mere reflex
of Mrs. Gamp's own inane and besodden brain--was too calmly provoking, as it was meant to be,
to be borne in silence. These two journals were highly unpopular at the time; for the "Manchester
School" was making headway, and Free Trade was already a powerful and significant cry. So when
Punch laughed at them for two--though really one--disreputable old women, and Leech's inimitable
pencil typified them as such, in mob-cap and pattens, the public laughed with him, whatever
their own political opinion might be. It should be noted, however, that Punch's first brush
with the "Herald" was personal, not political. In February, 1843, the latter journal had fathered
upon Punch a poor joke of which he was entirely innocent, and which he repudiated in an article
entitled "Impudent Attempt at Fraud." The quarrel thus begun in fun was continued in earnest,
and soon the "Herald," as a representative of public opinion, had no more damaging assailant
than "our humorous contemporary."

Now, in November, 1845, there appeared a reference to "Mrs. Harris, Editress of the Standard,"
as well as a drawing by Leech, called "Maternal Solicitude," which was intended to satirise
the snobbery of persons who name their children after the Royal Family. It represents the visit
of one lady to another, while a pair of repulsive-looking brats of one of them make up the
group. "And the dear children?" asks the friend. "Why," replies the fond mother, "Alexandrina
Victoria is a good deal better; but dear little Albert here is still very delicate."

Thereupon the "Standard" opened the floodgates of its anger in a leading article, the whole
tone of which is a curious contrast to its dignity and moderation at the present day. In the
course of its outburst it said:--

     Still not one word from the "Times" in support of its charge of the
     exercise of Court influence at the Windsor Election. As usual,
     however, ... its toadies are active and noisy.... To-day we, of
     course, find Punch the most abject, probably, of all the "Times"
     toadies, discharging the duties of its mean avocation in an
     article libelling the successful candidate, libelling the military,
     libelling the young gentlemen of Eton, and ascribing Colonel Reid's
     return to "kitchen-stairs influence" emanating from the Castle.....
     If there were any fun in the article to which we refer, we might
     forgive the malice and falsehood, as we are all too much disposed
     to do, for the joke's sake; but dull as all the articles of Punch
     have been lately growing, this article on the Windsor Election is
     the stupidest that we have seen in its columns--a mere display of
     heavy spitefulness. We should probably have overlooked this piece
     of impertinence had Punch confined itself to letterpress in its
     toady vindication of the quarrel of the "Times;" but in the 222nd
     page of the number which contains the Windsor Election article,
     there is a disgusting caricature of the Queen and her family, the
     most false and unjust in what it implies that it is possible to
     conceive, and the most offensive to the feelings of a mother. The
     effect of such an insult to a Sovereign the object of her people's
     respect and love will, we imagine, be different from what the
     "Times" and its toadies anticipate. At all events, such insults
     will not, in the absence of all proof, render credible the false
     allegation of the exercise of Court influence, or enable the
     "Times" to get rid of our challenge, which we again repeat--this is
     a point from which we shall not be driven, until we have a direct
     answer from the "Times" itself, not from its toadies. The Queen
     may be libelled as the Punch, "Times," and "Examiner" libel her
     Majesty, if Sir Frederick Thesiger permit; but our Sovereign shall
     not be belied while we have the power to expose the fabricators of
     falsehood and their fabrications.

One may well wonder whether the "Standard" was really serious, or only "making believe" in
order to strengthen its attack upon the "Times." But it suited Punch to take the outburst seriously,
though with provoking calmness. First retorting that it is well that the editress of the "Standard"--he
invariably referred to "the editress"--wears pattens as a precaution which the nature of her
walks renders very necessary, although they are constantly tripping her up, Punch quietly remarked
that "'Our Grandmother' must surely have taken an additional drop of 'something comfortable';"
"and Leech parodied Phiz" etching of Mrs. Gamp and Betsy Prig, in which "the editress" declares,
"As for that nasty, hojus Punch, I'm dispoged to scratch 'is hi's out a'most. What I ses, I
ses; and what I ses, I sticks to." The campaign was conducted with considerable spirit by Gilbert
à Beckett and Percival Leigh, with slight assistance from Horace Mayhew; and was continued
with remorseless gaiety and bitterness for some years. In the pages here devoted to Thackeray
reference is made to the personal feeling which existed between him and the "Morning Post"
and to the effective retaliation on the part of that newspaper.

Punch's loyalty, as a matter of fact, has always been above suspicion and above proof. Democrat
as he was, and independent in his views, he was as indignant as the "Standard" itself when
the half-demented Bean made his attempt upon the Queen's life; yet gleeful to a degree when
his Liege Lady was called upon to pay income-tax precisely as all her subjects did. The birth
of the Prince of Wales, which coincided with Lord Mayor's Day, provided Punch with an opportunity
for showing much loyalty and more wit; and the interest with which he followed the education
and amusements of the Heir-Apparent, the anxiety with which he made suggestions for the best
appointments, in his nursery-household, to the office of the "Master of the (Rocking) Horse,"
the "Clerk of the Pea-Shooter," and so forth; the delight with which, by the hand of Leech
(1846), he published a charming cartoon of the lad as a man-o'-war's man, thus popularising
the dress of English boys, while the sketch itself was widely reproduced as a bronze or plaster
group--all this proved the benevolent sentiments he entertained towards the Royal Family. This
benevolence has cropped up again and again--when the Prince visited Canada and America (1860);
when, in 1861, he went up to Trinity College, Cambridge (the Mayor and Corporation coming in
for severe criticism, however, for their snobbish Address); when he married; when he fell ill
and recovered; and when he celebrated his Jubilee--on which occasion Punch declared that "the
longer he knew him the better he liked him"--a sentiment the genuineness of which could hardly
have been questioned by any but the blindest of critics. From first to last Punch has been
a respectful godfather, and a wise and kindly guardian.

Towards the Queen herself Punch has shown unswerving chivalry and reverence, even during the
shouting days when democracy was more noisily republican than it is to-day. The Queen figures
often in the earlier cartoons, and the care with which the draughtsmen sought to do justice
to the pure outline of her fair face is at least a tribute to their good taste. Punch never
affected to regard her as a mere figurehead, but always represented her in a position of authority,
her Ministers in character of domestic servants taking her instructions, and not at all tendering
advice; and every important incident in the life of the Queen has been touched upon with the
utmost respect and sympathy.

But with the Prince Consort the case was somewhat different. As Mr. Burnand and Mr. Arthur
à Beckett have written[21]:--

     "It is strange to note that, until the hour of his death, the man
     whose memory is now universally respected was highly unpopular with
     the general public. The Democritus of Fleet Street was, and is,
     essentially representative, and the popular opinion of the merits
     or demerits of H.R.H. is constantly shown. Only a few weeks after
     the cartoon" [of the Prince Consort tying up his door-knocker on
     the occasion of the birth of the Princess Beatrice] "Mr. Punch is
     drawn looking at the portrait of the Prince Consort at a review at
     the Royal Academy, and saying, "No. 24. A field-marshal; h'm--very
     good indeed. What sanguinary engagement can it be?" That these
     satirical observations were made simply at Prince Albert's expense,
     and were not intended to reflect upon the Queen or the rest of the
     Royal Family, is shown by the extremely hearty manner in which the
     marriage of the Princess Royal was welcomed by Mr. Punch as
     representing the English feeling. John Bull is heard saying, as he
     hands over to the Imperial Princess of Germany her dowry, 'There,
     my child! God bless you! And may you make as good a wife as your
     mother.'"

It is probable that the real source of the Prince Consort's unpopularity was his foreign nationality,
added to the ignorance of the people of his enthusiasm and indefatigable efforts for the public
weal. His rapid promotion in military rank, already referred to, was not appreciated in the
country, and was mercilessly lampooned in Punch; and attention was attracted to the fact that
from that time forward the Duke of Wellington always prefixed the initials "F.M." in his short,
brusque third-person letters. "H.R.H. F.M. Paterfamilias" was for some time one of the chief
of Punch's stock jests. The Prince was pursued into his private apartments, and shown as a
père de famille in not the most respectful spirit. In one picture he is represented in his
dressing-gown conferring upon "P--pps the Fortunate" the Knighthood of the Shower Bath; in
others, the effect of Time upon his head and figure are dwelt upon with real sardonic relish.
The misapprehensions of the public were not unnaturally reflected by Punch, and a cut was much
applauded in which the Prince was shown stopped by a policeman in Trafalgar Square when in
the act of removing a couple of pictures from the National Gallery. Punch pointedly inquires,
"Taking them to Kensington Gore? Suppose you leave 'em where they are, eh?"

More justifiable perhaps, but still somewhat harsh, was Punch's protest (1854) against the
Prince's supposed interference in State politics. He is shown skating on the ice, warned off
by Mr. Punch from a section of it labelled "Foreign Affairs--Dangerous." And in the same year
he is attacked with extraordinary gusto by reason of the new hat he had devised for the British
army--or, at least, for the Guards. In 1843 the first "Albert shako" had appeared, and Leech,
in a cartoon called "Prince Albert's Studio," exhibited it as a pretended work of art in the
most ludicrous light. Again, in 1847 the Prince had invented a similar headgear, popularly
christened "the Albert Hat," which Punch converted to his uses and worked to death. "The New
Albert Bonnet for the Guards" ridicules the idea unmercifully, and "the British Grenadier as
improved by His Royal Highness Prince Albert, decidedly calculated to frighten the Russians,"
was another grotesque perversion of a praiseworthy attempt with which Mr. Punch was in his
heart a good deal in sympathy. For his artists were as diligent as the Prince in trying to
improve the uniform of the British soldier, contrasting with its wretched inconvenience the
serviceability and ease of the sailor's. The drawing in which a private, half choked by his
stock, held helplessly rigid by his straps and buckles, and unable to hold his gun as his "head's
coming off!" illustrates the fact that Punch's views and Prince Albert's had much in common.
We have the authority of Sir Theodore Martin, in his biography (Vol. II., p. 299), that the
Prince Consort took Punch's humours in very good part, and made a large collection of the caricatures
of the day, in the belief that in them alone could the true position of a public man be recognised.
But it is said that soon after this last crusade a hint was received from Windsor Castle to
the effect that a little less personality and a little more justice in respect to the Prince
would be appreciated, as much by the people as by the Court. It is certain that after this
time the attacks practically came to an end. And when the Prince died, there were few truer
mourners in the land, and the widowed Queen had few sincerer sympathisers, than the jester
whose raillery had been so keen, and who felt too late a generous remorse.

"It was too soon to die," wrote Shirley Brooks in a poem called, simply, "Albert, December
Fourteenth, 1861"--

  "It was too soon to die.
    Yet, might we count his years by triumphs won,
    By wise, and bold, and Christian duties done,
  It were no brief eventless history.

         *       *       *       *       *

  "Could there be closer tie
    'Twixt us, who, sorrowing, own a nation's debt,
    And Her, our own dear Lady, who as yet
  Must meet her sudden woe with tearless eye:

  "When with a kind relief
    Those eyes rain tears, O might this thought employ!
    Him whom she loved we loved. We shared her joy,
  And will not be denied to share her grief."

Punch always had a number of butts on hand--men whom he attacked for their delinquencies, real
or imaginary, or whom on account of idiosyncrasies he thought to be fair game, just for the
fun of it. One of the first of these was Lord William Lennox, a nobleman of literary pretensions,
whose efforts, however, were said to be more pretentious than literary. His novel of "The Tuft-Hunter"
was quickly "spotted" by the critics, and Hood was the first to declare that the book was little
else than a patchwork from his own "Tylney Hall," from "The Lion," and from Scott's "Antiquary,"
though the "names and epithets" were changed. "Such kind of borrowing as this," Milton has
said, "if it be not bettered by the borrower, among good authors is accounted plagiarè;" and
as plagiarism of the most unblushing character Punch adjudged it. Hood himself contributed
his mite to the discussion in the paper in the form of the following:--

"EPIGRAM

"On the 'Tuft-Hunter,' by Lord William Lennox.

  "A duke once declared--and most solemnly, too--That
  whatever he liked with his own he would do;
  But the son of a duke has gone further and shown
  He will do what he likes when it isn't his own!"

And it was Hood who inspired Jerrold with the idea of the biting article headed "Daring Robbery
by a Noble Lord-Punch's Police." In this instance Punch was genuinely indignant, and he proceeded
to make Lord William's life a burden to him with such announcements as: "Shortly will be published,
in two volumes, 8vo, a new work, entitled 'Future and Never,' by Lord W. Lennox, author of
Carlyle's 'Past and Present,' etc. etc., and of Wordsworth's 'We are Six and One';" and again
"Prize Comedy by Lord W. Lennox: 'Academy for Scandal';" while a portion of Punch's preface
to his sixth volume (1844) was supposed to be written by Lord William, and presented a most
laughable compound of sayings and quotations, with slight alteration, from well-known authors.
But when Punch dropped him, the unhappy author was not left alone, for the "Great Gun" and
other journals picked him up, and played with what remained of his literary reputation.

It was in his second number that Punch began his persistent ridicule of Jullien, the famous
chef d'orchestre who introduced the Promenade Concerts to Drury Lane, with such prodigious
success. The poem, from the pen of W. H. Wills, began characteristically--"One--crash! Two--clash!
Three--dash! Four--smash!!" and, not wholly without malevolence, described the popular conductor
as a

          "ci-devant waiter
  Of a quarante-sous traiteur "--

thus laying the foundation for the charges of musical ignorance, illiteracy, musical-"ghost"-employment,
and other imposture, under which he suffered in this country nearly all his life. Jullien indignantly
denied the hard impeachment, and declared that he began his musical life as a fifer in the
French navy, and had in that capacity been present on a man-o'-war at the battle of Solferino
in 1829. His assailant accepted the statement as to his military achievement, adding the suggestion
that after working himself up to more than concert pitch, and "holding in his hand one sharp,
which he turned into several flats," Jullien withdrew from the service on account of the discord
of battle, particularly as the shrieks of the wounded were horribly out of tune.

Punch fell back on Jullien's well-oiled ringlets, his general tenue and violent gesticulation,
and, with better cause, on his "Row Polka," and on those wild and frenzied quadrilles in which
the music in one part was "accentuated with a salvo of artillery." But Punch, ignoring the
better part of Jullien's musical ability, made no allowance for the curious quality of his
mind, which was evidently ill-balanced, and indeed was finally overthrown. Jullien's vanity,
for example, was sublime, rivalling that of the Knellers and Greuzes of earlier days; and his
biographer sets forth how, in the scheme he imagined for the civilisation of the world by means
of music, he had determined (though essentially a "dance musician") to set to music the Lord's
Prayer. It could not fail, said Jullien, to be an unprecedented success, with two of the greatest
names in history on its title-page! The musician ultimately died through over-work, the consequence
of an honourable attempt to meet his liabilities.

Sir Peter Laurie was another favourite quarry, who almost from the beginning was singled out
of the Corporation, of which he was really one of the most efficient members, because he aimed
at "putting down" by the stern administration of justice what, perhaps, could only be dealt
with by sympathy. Punch chose to interpret Sir Peter's views into regarding poverty less as
a misfortune than as primâ-facie evidence of the poor man's guilt or folly; but it was when
the well-meaning alderman so far "opened his mouth as to put his foot into it," by declaring,
when trying a case, "that it was his intention to put down suicide," that Jerrold's pen stuck
him on to Punch's page, and heaped ridicule on him from every point of view. Alderman Moon,
the famous print-seller of Threadneedle Street, was another butt--the more unjustly (though
he certainly did sometimes cut a ridiculous figure) as he rendered real service to artists,
and looked upon English art and its patronage in a broad and patriotic way, even while he made
his own fortune in doing so. This, however, he did not succeed in retaining, and his acts and
motives were sneered at, and his "testimonial" fatally ridiculed.

Then Harrison Ainsworth, as much for his good-looks and his literary vanity, as for his tendency
to reprint his romances in such journals as came under his editorship, was the object of constant
banter.

Harrison Ainsworth could not have his portrait painted, nor write a novel of crime and sensation,
without being regarded as a convenient peg for pleasantry. Similarly did Tom Taylor fall foul
of Bulwer Lytton (p. 91, Vol. IX.) by reason of the dedication of "Zanoni" to Gibson the sculptor,
in which it was said that the book was not for "the common herd." The story of Lytton's castigation
by Tennyson is duly related where the Laureate's contributions to Punch are spoken of. In Lytton's
case, at least, Punch forgot to apply Swift's aphorism that a man has just as much vanity as
he has understanding.

Of the artists, Turner perhaps lent himself most to Punch's satire. Ruskin had not yet arisen
to champion the mighty painter's ill-appreciated art; and Turner's colour-dreams, in which
"form" was often to a great extent ignored, were not more tempting to the satirical Philistine
than those extraordinary quotations from his formless epic, called "The Fallacies of Hope,"
extracts from which he loved to append to his pictures' titles. Nothing could be better in
the way of satire than the manner in which Punch turned upon the poor painter, and "guy'd"
his picture with a burlesque of his own poetic "style." It was in the Royal Academy of 1845
that the artist exhibited his celebrated "Venice--Returning from the Ball;" and this is how
Punch received it:--

  "Oh! what a scene!--Can this be Venice? No.
  And yet methinks it is--because I see
  Amid the lumps of yellow, red, and blue
  Something which looks like a Venetian spire.

         *       *       *       *       *

  This in my picture I would fain convey;
  I hope I do. Alas! What FALLACY!"

Turner, unhappily, was acutely sensitive to these attacks; but Punch cared little for that,
and probably--to do him justice--knew still less. It is, however, notable that--doubtless on
account of that very common-sense which has nearly always kept him right on great questions--Punch
has usually in art been nearly as much a Philistine as the public he represents. When Sir Edward
Burne-Jones burst forth into the artistic firmament, Punch joined, if not the mockers, at least
the severer critics. "BURN JONES?" said he; "by all means do." Of the exquisite "Mirror of
Venus" and "The Beguiling of Merlin" he ignored the poetry, and saw little but the quaintness,
his criticism being the more weighty for its being clever. Of the first-named picture he observed:--

  "Or crowding round one pool, from flowery shelves
    A group of damsels bowed the knee
  Over reflections solid as themselves
    And like as peasen be."

While in the latter

  "... mythic Uther's diddled son was seen
  Packed in a trunk with cramped limbs awry,
  Spell-fettered by a Siren, limp and lean,
  And at least twelve heads high."

No doubt, the grounds of Punch's opposition were not only those which are recognised as belonging
to the humorist; they consisted not a little in that healthy hatred of the affectation with
which so much good art is husked. In more recent times Punch did not ignore the fine decorative
qualities of Mr. Aubrey Beardsley's art, though he plainly loathed the morbid ugliness of much
of its conception and detail.

Perhaps no one was more heartily attacked than Charles Kean--"Young Kean," it was the fashion
to call him--probably because between Jerrold and the actor there had been a serious quarrel.
As to this, which took its rise in the pre-Punch days, nothing need here be said; it is fully
dealt with in the wit's biography. In the words of the present Editor: "Only tardily was something
like justice done to Kean's influence on the drama of our time, by Punch, who had been one
of the first to sound the note of warning about that 'stage-upholstery' which was the first
sign of the growth of realism in dramatic art." Punch loved to contrast the younger Kean with
his more gifted father, and had no patience with the raucous voice and bad enunciation of the
son; but his sketch of the actor as Sardanapalus (1853), "with a wine-cup of the period," sets
on record one of the most perfect archæological revivals that had ever been seen on the English
stage. But it was Kean's "Mephistopheles" (1854) that afforded Punch his chance, for the actor's
realisation was so wide of Goethe's creation that it was a Frenchified demon, played as a comic
character. Punch admitted the beauty of the production, but said that "as a piece of show and
mechanism (wires unseen) it will draw the eyes of the town, especially the eyes with the least
brains behind them." Kean's performance was denounced as devoid of life and beauty, but generous
praise was accorded to his newly made-up nose, to which the best part of the criticism was
devoted. "It has the true demoniacal curve," he said; "we never saw a better view of the devil's
bridge." And so, throughout, Punch dogged Kean's progress. But as time went on, his criticism
lost the taint of personal feeling; and Kean was recognised at last as our leading tragedian,
though to the end he was never accepted as a great actor.

A pretty accurate estimate as to Punch's pet "black beasts" and popular butts at this time
may be formed by the list drawn up in the paper of those persons whom Punch would exercise
his right to "challenge" if, in accordance with Mr. Serjeant Murphy's suggestion in the House
of Commons, Punch were put upon his trial for conspiracy, apropos of Cobden. From such a jury,
we are told, there would be struck off, in addition to those names already given, Mr. Grant
(author of "The Great Metropolis"), Baron Nathan the composer, Alderman Gibbs, D. W. Osbaldiston
(of the Surrey Theatre), Colonel Sibthorpe, and Moses the tailor.

In dealing with the work of Jerrold, I draw attention to the merciless onslaught on Samuel
Carter Hall, editor of the "Art Journal" and founder of the "Art Union," as it was at first
called. Hall was Pecksniff; the "Art Union" was "The Pecksniffery;" and Punch courted the libel
action which Hall threatened but failed to bring. That "the literary Pecksniff" took this course
could not but create a bad impression at the time, and Hall has therefore been put down as
one of the butts whom Punch had justly assailed. Of course his sententious catch-phrase of
appealing to "hand, head, and heart" was always made the most of, and Punch delighted in paraphrasing
it as "gloves, hat, and waistcoat."

But the two non-political persons whom Punch most persistently and vigorously attacked were
Mr. James Silk Buckingham and Mr. Alfred Bunn; and these two campaigns must, perhaps, be counted
the most elaborate of their kind which Punch has undertaken in his career--though in neither
had he very much to be proud of when all was said and done. Mr. J. S. Buckingham, sometime
Member of Parliament, was a gentleman philanthropically inclined and of literary instincts,
a man who had travelled greatly, and who in many of the schemes he had undertaken--including
the founding of the "Athenæum" in 1828--had usually had the support of a number of the most
reputable persons in the country. His latest idea was the establishing of the British and Foreign
Institute--a sort of counterpart in intention of the present Colonial Institute; but as all
of Mr. Buckingham's schemes had not succeeded, and as he retained chambers in the club-house
of what Punch insisted upon calling the "British and Foreign [or 'Outlandish'] Destitute,"
the journal was convinced that something more than a primâ-facie case had been made out against
the promoter, who, being assumed to live upon the members' subscriptions, was harried in the
paper from its first volume, chiefly at first by the slashing pen of Jerrold, and--in small
paragraphs--by the more delicate rapier of Horace Mayhew. These charges of mal-administration
and other offensive imputations against a semi-public man whose chief faults seem to have been
an over-sanguine temperament and a slight disposition towards self-advertisement, attracted
wide notice, and Punch devoted in all considerable space to the prosecution of this mistaken
campaign. Unfortunately for Buckingham, a member of the Institute, a Mr. George Jones--who
had published a good deal of dramatic nonsense under the title of "Tecumseh"--came to his support
with a ridiculous, inflated letter, which Punch promptly printed with the signature engraved
in facsimile. Thereupon Jones, finding the doubtful honour of publicity unexpectedly thrust
upon him, denounced the letter as a forgery; so Punch, had it lithographed and circulated among
the members, "just to show how good the forgery was." Jones forthwith began an action for libel,
which Punch defended. The genuineness of the document, however, was established, and Jones
withdrew from the action, paying all costs.

The sins of Jones were naturally added to Buckingham's account, and the latter decided--as
Leech once effectively threatened to do--to "draw" and defend himself. He published a pamphlet
entitled "The Slanders of Punch" felicitously quoting as his motto from Proverbs xxvi. 18,
"As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death, so is the man that deceiveth his neighbour,
and saith, Am not I in sport?"--he appealed for justice to the public, and especially to "the
200,000 readers of Punch" denouncing the persecution, and making known the fact that Jerrold
had originally applied for membership of his Institute, but had failed to take up his election,
whereupon his name was erased from the books. Ten thousand handbills were circulated, and six
thousand copies of the threepenny pamphlet, in various editions, were sold. Punch's answer
was a whole page of savage, biting satire from Jerrold (p. 241, Vol. IX.), which, however,
was too bombastic and "ultrafluvial" to be wholly effective. Thackeray's page article on "John
Jones's Remonstrance about the Buckingham Business" (p. 261) was far more to the point--amusing,
politic, and shrewd--and drew the quarrel within its proper limits, by imparting to it a more
jocular tone. Addressing the paper, he says, "At page 241 you are absolutely serious. That
page of Punch is a take-in. Punch ought never to be virtuously indignant or absolutely serious;"
and with these words, re-affirming the maxim which Punch had forgotten in his heat, he restored
peace, patched up the paper's reputation for good-humour, and with a skilful word covered its
retreat.

But Punch found his Waterloo, as it was considered at the time, at the hands of Alfred Bunn.
Bunn was the theatrical and operatic manager and man of letters--or, rather, as the letters
were so insignificant, the "man of notes." As early as 1816 he had produced a volume of verse.
Such verse!--sentimental, washy, and "woolly" to a degree. Three years later he put his name
to 'Tancred: a Tale,' by the author of 'Conrad: a Tragedy,' lately performed at the Theatre
Royal, Birmingham--of which he was manager for a spell before he came to London--and from time
to time he gave forth other works, such as "The Stage, both Before and Behind the Curtain,"
three volumes of rather shrewd "Observations taken on the Spot" (1840), and "Old England and
New England" (1853). He delivered lectures, too, at the St. James's Theatre, three times a
week, on the History of the Stage, and the Genius and Career of Shakespeare--lectures which
he also delivered in America. His verses, though vapid balderdash for the most part, were well
adapted to music, and his ballads "When other Lips and other Hearts," "The Light of other Days,"
"In Happy Moments Day by Day" (sung in Fitzball's "Maritana"), enjoyed enormous popularity.

Still, the whole attitude, the whole bearing of the man--his showy, almost comic, appearance
and his grandiloquence of expression--as well as the tremendous character of the wording of
his theatrical bills, afforded points of attack from the moment that he caught the public eye,
that no caricaturist or humorist could resist. As early as 1832 Jerrold was lampooning him
in his "Punch in London." In the following year Thackeray held him up to ridicule in his "National
Standard," that was fated to collapse a few months later, and honoured him with immortality
in "Flore and Zephyr;"[23] and soon after, Gilbert à Beckett satirised him in "Figaro in London."
In 1833 "Alfred the Little; or, Management! A Play as rejected at Drury Lane, by a Star-gazer,"
was another satire of distinct severity.

It is not surprising, therefore, that as soon as Punch was started the wits combined to continue
the game which they had already, separately enjoyed, and which the public presumably found
amusing. The other papers joined in Punch's cry, the "Great Gun" showing pre-eminent zeal in
its stalking of "Signor Bombastes Bunnerini." From the moment of Punch's birth onwards, Bunn
was one of his most ludicrous and fairest butts. When he wrote verse, he was "The Poet Bunn;"
when he was annoyed at that, or anything else, he was "Hot Cross Bunn." His deposition from
the management of Drury Lane and his appointment to the Vauxhall Gardens were coincident with
Punch's appearance, and the publication of his "Vauxhall Papers," illustrated by Alfred Crowquill,
again drew attention to himself. No sooner was the fierce controversy begun as to the propriety
of including a statue of Cromwell among the Sovereigns of England in the new Palace of Westminster,
a matter decided fifty years later, than Punch gravely mooted the question--"Shall Poet Bunn
have a Statue?" Then when his reign at Drury Lane was resumed, and opera was his grand enterprise,
Bunn became Punch's "Parvus Apollo," while Scribe's libretto to Donizetti's music was to be
"undone into English" by the Poet himself; and the persecuted manager was throughout the subject
of some of the happiest and most comic efforts of Leech's pencil.

At last, after supporting a six years' persistent cannonade, Bunn determined to strike a blow
for liberty. His plan was to issue a reply--a swift and sudden attack, as personal and offensive
as he could make it--in the form of Punch's own self, enough like it in appearance to amuse
the public, if not actually to deceive it. He secured the help of Mr. George Augustus Sala,
then a young artist whose pencil was enlisted in the service of "The Man in the Moon," and
who had as yet little idea of the journalistic eminence to which he was to rise. He had previously
submitted sketches to Mark Lemon for use in Punch, which had been summarily and, as he tells
me, "unctuously declined," and in his share of the work he doubtless tasted some of the sweets
of revenge, and richly earned the epithet which Lemon thereupon applied to him of "graceless
young whelp."

If the front page of this production be compared with Doyle's first Punch cover on p. 47, the
extent of the imitation will be appreciated. The size was the same, and the Punch lettering
practically identical; but otherwise the resemblance was of a general character. If the design
is examined, it will be seen that the groups are chiefly composed of Punch's victims and his
Staff. At the top the "Man in the Moon" presides; below, the "Great Gun" is firing away at
the dejected hunchback in the pillory. Toby is hanged on his master's own gallows; and the
puppets are strewn about. Thackeray leans for support against Punch's broken big drum; Tom
Taylor is beside him--Horace ("Ponny") Mayhew lies helpless in his box; while next to him Gilbert
à Beckett is prone upon his face, leaving his barrister's wig upon the "block-head." Jerrold,
as a wasp, is gazing ruefully at the bâton which has dropped from Punch's feeble hands; and
Mark Lemon, dressed as a pot-boy, is straining himself in the foreground to reach his pewter-pot.
Around float many of Punch's butts, political and social. Wellington on the left and Brougham
on the right play cup-and-ball with him. Louis Philippe has him on a toasting-fork, and Lord
John Russell hangs him on a gallows-tree. Palmerston, Prince de Joinville, Jullien, Sibthorpe,
Moses the tailor, Buckingham, and many more besides, are to be recognised. It was inscribed
"No. 1,--(to be continued if necessary)"--a contingency, however, that did not arise.

It is usually considered that Bunn engaged a clever writer to write his text for him; but it
is quite likely that he wrote the whole work himself, simply submitting it to the "editing"
of some more experienced journalist, probably Albert Smith. Much of the manner is his own,
and, as Mr. Joseph Knight agrees,[24] it "has many marks of Bunn's style, and is in part incontestably
his."

His "Word" is directed at Punch's "three Puppets--Wronghead (Mr. Douglas Jerrold), Sleekhead
(Mr. Gilbert à Beckett), and Thickhead (Mr. Mark Lemon)--formidable names, Punch! and, as being
three to one, formidable odds!" He refers to his friends having warned him not to rebel against
Punch's attacks, as he is

     a public character!! Pray, Punch, are not these, your puppets,
     public characters? Have they not acted in public, laboured for the
     public, catered for the public? Has not Douglas Jerrold been hissed
     off the stage by the public? Have not à Beckett's writings! been
     acted, and damned, in public? and as to Mark Lemon, there can be no
     doubt of his being a public character, for he some time since
     kept a public-house!!! All ceremony therefore is at an end
     between us.... There may be other misdemeanours of which they have
     from time to time thought me guilty; but the grand one of all is,
     that I have taken the liberty of attempting to write poetry, and
     have produced on the stage my own works in preference to theirs....
     Did you ever see them act, Punch? Did you ever see Douglas Jerrold
     in his own piece, entitled "The Painter of Ghent"? If not, I can
     only say you are a devilish lucky fellow! Did you ever see him and
     Mark Lemon act at Miss Kelly's theatre? and if so, did you ever see
     such an awful exhibition?... and if, as they say, they did
     "hold the mirror up to Nature," I say it was only to cast
     reflections upon her!! Did you read, Punch, the criticisms written
     by themselves upon themselves in the next day's papers? If you
     did not, you have a treat to come.

And so forth. Then, presenting the head of Jerrold on the body of an unusually wriggling serpent,
which he gives forth as being from "portraits in possession of the family," he goes on to "say
something" of the man of savage sarcasm and "bilious bitings:"--

     Now, with all his failings, let me record my opinion that it is to
     Jerrold's pen you are indebted, Punch, for the fame you once
     enjoyed; for, beyond any doubt, he is a fellow of infinite ability.
     I have known him some years, and the last time but one I ever saw
     him was in 1842, when, meeting me in St. James's Street, he thanked
     me for a handsome critique he believed me to have written on his
     comedy of "Bubbles of the Day," and on that occasion he said a
     better thing, Punch, than he has written in your pages. I said to
     him, "What, you are picking up character, I suppose?"--to which he
     replied, "There's plenty of it lost, in this neighbourhood." The
     last time I ever heard from him was during the first visit of
     Duprez to Drury Lane Theatre, when I received the following note
     from  him:--

                                                       Wednesday.
     "MY DEAR SIR,

     Will you enable me to hear your French nightingale--do pray,

                             Yours very truly,
                                       D. JERROLD."

     --which is the vilest pun ever perpetrated at the expense of that
     eminent singer.... Unlike the other two of his party, he is a man
     of undoubted genius; but all who admit this, at the same time
     regret the frequent misdirection of his mind. He is one of the most
     ill-conditioned, spiteful, vindictive, and venomous writers in
     existence, and whatever honey was in his composition, has long
     since turned to gall.... Can it be possible [he adds, after digging
     up and quoting some of Jerrold's feeblest verse] that it never
     occurs to a wholesale dealer in slander and ridicule that he is
     liable to be assailed by the very weapons he useth against others?

Then comes the portrait of Gilbert Abbott à Beckett, in wig and gown, but with devil's hoofs
and tail. On him the attack is savage in the extreme, the details of his early lack of financial
success being published, and the whole dismissed with the comprehensive remark: "a very prolific
person, this friend of yours, Punch!--editor of thirteen periodicals, and lessee of a theatre
into the bargain, and all total failures!" After heavy-handed chaff he proceeds to abuse Mark
Lemon, up and down, in similar terms; and with a view to show that others write verse as bad
as his, reprints the weakest lines in his "Fridolin" and "The Rhine-boat." In the course of
his very effective attack Bunn proceeds:--

     In speaking of the Castle of Heidelberg, which he says is on the
     Rhine, although everyone else says it is on the Neckar, he thus
     apostrophises it:--

  "'Tis here the north wind loves to hold
  His dreary revels, loud and cold,
  The nettle's bloom's his daily fare,
  The TOAD the guest most welcome there!!"

     Whether the last line gives the reason why Thickhead visited
     Heidelberg does not appear.

He then dots epigrams and so forth--all insults of various degrees of offensiveness--about
the remaining pages, virtually suggesting, in Sheridan's words, that while Punch's circulation
has gone down hopelessly, "everything about him is a jest except his witticisms." The advertisements,
too, are of a similarly satirical character, one of them showing, as an illustration of a "patent
blacking," Mark Lemon (as pot-boy) looking at his own likeness in the polish of a Wellington
boot which reflects a rearing donkey. The last cut represents a medicine bottle with a label
inscribed "This dose to be repeated, should the patients require it," and the "Notice to Correspondents"
declares that ample material is left for future use. Such further publication, however, was
never called for. Punch attempted no reply--inexplicably, one would think, for there must have
been something left to say of Hot Cross Bunn. Punch's rivals were not slow to twit him on his
defeat, especially the "Puppet Show" and "The Man in the Moon," the latter of which, in a comic
report of the proceedings at the "Licensing Committee for Poets," remarked, "Mr. Alfred Bunn
was bitterly opposed on personal grounds by a person named Punch; but Mr. Bunn having intimated
his wish to have a Word with Punch, the latter skulked out of court, and was not heard of afterwards."

"A Word with Punch"--which the Punch men are said to have bought up as far as possible--had
a considerable sale, and an "édition de luxe" was also issued, coloured. The engravings in
it were made by Landells, a modest piece of vengeance which must, however, have been gratifying,
so far as it went. It may be added that J. R. Adam, "the Cremorne Poet," took up the cudgels
unasked in Punch's behalf in a reply entitled "A Word with Bunn;" but this little octavo is
as insignificant as its author, and attracted little notice.

Once again, in the early days of "Fun," Punch came very near to being startled with another
such infernal machine. Mr. Clement Scott tells me:--"We were offended with Punch for some reason--it
was in the Tom Taylor days--and we meditated, planned out, and nearly executed a second edition
of 'A Word with Punch.' Tom Hood was furious. Sala was in our conspiracy. In fact, all the
'young lions' of 'Fun' were 'crazy mad.' We thought we could annihilate poor old Punch with
one blow. But we never did it--because, I think, although we were plucky, we were impecunious!
We were very proud, but, alas! our pockets were empty; so the whole company--Hood, Sala, Jeff
Prowse, Harry Leigh, Brunton, Paul Gray, W. S. Gilbert, W. B. Rands, Tom Robertson, Clement
Scott and Co., had to knock under."

From Bunn's time may be dated the better taste and greater chivalry that have since distinguished
Punch, even in his most rampant moods. He has always had his butts--from the soft-hearted and,
at the time, unpardonably hirsute Colonel Sibthorpe, to Sir R. Temple and Mr. McNeill, Mr.
Newdegate, Mr. Roebuck, Edwin James, ex-Q.C. (who was disbarred for corruption and set up in
New York, joining, as Punch put it, the "bar sinister"), Madame Rachel (the "beautiful for
ever" enameller, who had not yet been convicted), Colonel North, Sir Francis Baring, Cox of
Finsbury, Wiscount Williams of Lambeth, the Duke of Buccleuch, Lord Malmsbury, and a host of
others. But his attacks rarely overstepped due limits; nor did Punch ever find another aspiring
Bunn among them. Amongst the inanimate objects which at various times Punch made his mark were
Trafalgar Square and its Fountains (or the "Squirts," as they were scornfully called), the
National Gallery, Mud-Salad Market, Leicester Square, the Wellington Statue on the Wellington
Arch, the Great Exhibition, John Bell's Guards' Memorial in Waterloo Place, and the British
Museum Catalogue--all of which, so far as they represented Londoners' grievances, have ere
now been reformed.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] Mangez bien, Jenkinsonian French for "fare well."

[19] Jenkinsonian French for "thread-bare subject."

[20] On the occasion of Punch's Jubilee, July, 1891, the "Times" remarked; 'May we be excused
for noting the fact that he [Punch] has generally, in regard to public affairs, taken his cue
from the "Times"?'

[21] "Fortnightly Review," December, 1886.

[22] His publisher.

[23] Edmund Yates believed that Bunn was Thackeray's model also for Mr. Dolphin, the manager,
in "Pendennis."

[24] "Dictionary of National Biography."

Above the head of every editor the law of libel hangs like the sword of Damocles. It is at
all times difficult for a newspaper of any sort to avoid the infringement of its provisions,
vigilant though the editor may be. But in the case of a confessedly "satirical" journal the
danger is enormously increased, for the margin between "fair comment" and flat libel shrinks
strangely when the raison d'étre of the criticism is pungency, and the object laughter.

That Punch has steered clear of giving serious offence, save on occasions extremely few, must
be counted to him for righteousness. It is true that, as a Lord Chancellor once declared, "Punch
is a chartered libertine." But for him to have won his "charter" at all proves him at least
to have been worthy of it, the tolerance and indulgence of the nation having been in themselves
a temptation. It is not so much that he has not hit hard; it is rather that he has hit straight.
Indeed, as we have seen, he has struck hastily in many directions; but, save in his years of
indiscretion, he has scarcely ever been guilty of anything approaching scurrility. At a time
when the "Satirist" was flinging its darts at the peculiarly vulnerable Duke of Brunswick,
goading him into the writing of his pamphlets, and into that crushing retaliation whereby the
paper was condemned in five thousand pounds damages, Punch was perhaps the most moderate public
censor and arbiter elegantiarum amongst all those who used ridicule and irony as instruments
of castigation; and indulgence has been the reward that he has reaped.

That Mr. George Jones and Mr. S. C. Hall dared not face the ultimate ordeal of a court of law
must be held to justify Punch's persistently caustic denunciations; while the case of Mr. Gent-Davis,
then M.P. for Kennington, served chiefly to confirm the fact that "abstractions" and "imaginary
personages" find their counterparts, in the opinions of some, in real life. In this case one
of the Staff, who lived in the member's constituency, and had taken some interest in local
politics, contributed a humorous paper to a series on which he was engaged, and it was published
in Punch(November 13, 1886). In this essay a type of suburban lady-politician--a "study from
Mr. Punch's Studio"--was satirised under the name of "Mrs. Gore-Jenkins." Forthwith a summons
against the Editor at the Mansion House police court was the result, for the Member accepted
the description as directed against his wife; but the explanation that the article was intended
as a mere political satire on an "imaginary person" was held to be satisfactory, and the incident
was finally closed.

On another occasion an unflattering poem on a "popular singer" was illustrated, quite innocently
by the artist, who probably never saw the verses, with what appeared to be a portrait of Mr.
Isidore de Lara; but no sooner was the matter pointed out than any intention to offend the
musician was immediately disclaimed by the paper. At another time one of Punch's artists showed
the little band of Socialists (Messrs. Champion, Hyndman, and others), who were then before
the law on a political charge, as subjects of Punch's traditional "summary justice." But although
Punch was quickly brought to book, his victims did not take the matter very seriously. Mr.
John Burns, indeed, confesses as much in a communication upon the subject. "On one occasion,"
he tells me, "Punch suspended me, pictorially of course, from a gallows tree. This I, of course,
regarded as Mr. Punch's humorous desire to see me in an elevated position. On other occasions
he has been equally kind but less appropriate in his method of praise or censure."

Punch has altogether had some two-score actions commenced, or threatened, against it, by business
firms or aggrieved persons or, more often still, by newspapers on the ground of libel and kindred
wrongdoing. But then, consider how many there are in the world, and in England especially,
who will not see a joke!

A subject upon which Punch has for some years been persistently twitted is the personality
of "Mrs. Ramsbotham"--Thackeray's Mrs. Julia Dorothea Ramsbottom of "The Snob" (No. 7, May,
1829)--a homely sort of Mrs. Malaprop, whose constant misquotations and misapplication of words
of somewhat similar sound to those she intends to use give constant amusement to one section
of Punch's readers, and irritation quite as constant to the other. She is the lady who suffers
from a "torpedo liver;" who complains of being "a mere siphon in her own house;" who discharges
her gardener because his answers to her questions are so "amphibious;" and who does not understand
how there can be "illegal distress" in a free country where people may be as unhappy as they
like. There have, of course, been many originals to this unconscious humorist--and are still.
One lady, it has been declared, is not unknown in society, who has held forth to a surprised
circle of her acquaintances on the operation of "trigonometry" (tracheotomy)--who, when she
imparted a bit of scandal would add, "but that, you know, as the lawyers say, is inter alias"--and
who wished that people would always say what they meant, and not talk paregorically (metaphorically).

"Mrs. Ramsbotham" is obviously descended, through Mrs. Malaprop, from Dogberry, and has many
a time been "condemned to everlasting redemption," at least by the genus irritabile. One critic
cast his protest in the form of a poetic appeal to Punch, and published it in an Oxford journal:--

  "Of Mrs. Ram I wish to speak,
    You dear old London Charivari;
  Don't ram her down our throats each week.
    Of sameness do be chary. Vary."

A broader and severer hint was offered by the lively Poet of the London "Globe":--

  To Mrs. Ramsbotham.

   A few there be who still delight,
    O Mrs. R., in Punch's page,
  Who like a joke to wear the blight
      Of age.

  Who, if they find a grain of wheat,
    Are well content to pass the chaff,
  And, every week, at least complete
      One laugh.

  But even they who swallow pun
    Unmurm'ring, now and then declare,
  Henceforward they must seek their fun
      Elsewhere.

  It is when you have multiplied
    Your misconceptions, Mrs. Ram.,
  That patience, sorely thus o'er-tried,
      Says "----."

  My task is therefore plain: to hint
    That you, true woman to the core,
  Are, when you interfere with print,
      A bore.

  I would not venture to suggest
    The line of conduct to pursue;
  I state a fact ... and leave the rest
      To you.

But, in spite of this bitter cry, the next week's number of Punch contained a quarter of a
page of the lady's reminiscences and three misapprehensions. "O," exclaimed the tormented Poet,
"that some Abraham would arise to do sacrifice!" Later on Mr. Furniss arose to the call, as
the murderous Barons responded to Henry's ejaculation. In "Lika Joko" (November 3, 1894) there
was printed an obituary notice of Mrs. Ramsbotham (as nothing in her name had appeared in the
previous week's Punch), and a very comic death-bed scene was presented--reminding one of a
similar incident in "Joe Miller the Younger," when that paper, like many of the public, grew
tired of Mrs. Caudle, and, reporting her "sudden death," published an engraving by Hine, wherein
Punch in weepers is seen laying a wreath upon her monument, while Toby and his bâton are both
decorated with crape. In "Lika Joko's" presentation of her "momentum mori," she babbles of
things in general; she is nervous as to the physic handed to her, and remarks that these medicine
bottles are as like to one another as the two Dominoes in the "Comedy of Horrors;" she declares,
as her mind wanders to the Chino-Japanese war, that "the best remedy for political disorders
is antimony, but things may be different in horizontal nations;" and, finally, as she sinks
back in death, she fancies she sees a hand a'Becketting to her. But Punch ignored the attack;
and the report of the death of his lady-correspondent was duly recognised as a canard.

But "Lika Joko" is by no means the only comic paper that has attacked Punch, smiting him hip
and thigh. The violent charges of plagiarism which for many years it was the fashion to bring
against him have already been referred to. From the beginning the principal--as it is the easiest--charge
that has been made is the alleged heaviness of Punch's fun or his deficiency of wit; less often,
it has been a legitimate complaint of blunder or of journalistic wrongdoing. Some of the most
violent of these attacks came from the aforesaid "Joe Miller," and from "The Great Gun"--the
short-lived journal of distinct ability. In "The Man in the Moon" the pens of Shirley Brooks,
James Hannay, and other wits made it distinctly uncomfortable for Punch--but nothing more.
Thus to a portrait of Mr. Punch, who is shown in the last degree of misery, is appended the
legend, "A CASE OF REAL DISTRESS.--'I haven't made a joke for many weeks!'" (November, 1847).
In the next number appeared the brilliant verses, "Our Flight with Punch," from Shirley Brooks's
pen, as well as a sketch of a man speechless with amazement, described as the "Portrait of
a Gentleman finding a Joke in Punch." Then there is the riddle, "Why is a volume of Punch like
a pot of bad tea?--Because it is full of slow leaves;" and in the same number, a biting satire
in anticipation of a play written by some of the Punch Staff and produced at Covent Garden
in aid of the family of Leigh Hunt, ends with the words, "Every resorter to the stalls and
boxes will be expected to purchase a copy of either 'Dombey,' Punch, or 'Jerrold's Weekly Newspaper,'
as, next to benevolence, it is in aid of those works that the chief actors appear. N.B.--Strong
coffee will be provided to keep the audience awake throughout the performance. Vivant Bradbury
et Evans!"

"The Puppet-Show" followed on the same lines, but its attacks were more personal. Under the
heading of "A Trio of Punchites" (April, 1848), Thackeray, Douglas Jerrold, and Gilbert à Beckett
were torn limb from limb, and later on Mark Lemon and the rest were added to the holocaust;
yet, like the Cardinal of Rheims' congregation, nobody seemed a penny the worse. The paper
began its fusillade in the first number, and soon came out with a large picture, well drawn
and engraved in the manner of the day, of Mr. Punch, much humiliated, receiving a lecture from
Mr. Bull:--

SHAMEFUL ATTEMPT AT OVERCHARGE!

     MR. BULL (a commercial gentleman)--"Hallo, Mr. Punch, threepence!
     What do you mean by threepence? Why, the Puppet-Showman supplies a
     better paper for a penny! You must mind what you are about!"

     MR. PUNCH--"Well, sir, you may think it too much, but really the
     article is so very heavy I cannot sell it for less."

On another occasion the same idea is carried a step further, in the form of an advertisement:
"NOTICE.--If the heavy joke, which was sent to the 'Puppet-Show' office last Monday, and for
which two-and-ninepence was charged, be not forthwith removed, it will be sold to Punch to
pay expenses;" and later on it hints that the Parisians will do well to import a few of Punch's
jokes as the best of all possible material for the barricades they were then erecting (1848).
A graver charge was contained under the heading, "On Sale or Hire," and it ran: "We perceive,
by an advertisement in Punch, that the entire work can be purchased for £4 10s. Judging from
its ridiculous puffs of Her Majesty's Theatre, we should say that it could always be bought
by a box at the Opera." This amiable paragraph appeared in a lively column which was a weekly
feature of the paper, and was headed "Pins and Needles." "Pasquin," a rival "comic" edited
by Mr. Sutherland Edwards, was always "bandying epithets" with the Showman, and no sooner was
the column introduced than he drew pleasing attention to the fact in the following paragraph:
"The 'Puppet-Show' has started 'Pins and Needles.' We don't wonder at it. 'Pins and Needles'
are always a sign of a defective circulation."

From time to time, too, pamphlets have been directed against Punch, such as the "Anti-Punch,"[25]
published by the men who naturally fall under the lash of a satirist, and resent its application.
Of such was the widely circulated "Phrenological Manipulation of the Head of Punch," written
by George Combe about 1845, in the form of an open letter. It began, "Sir, you are not an honest
man.... Practically your benevolence is merely professional, it is only for the readers of
Punch. Why do you act like Toby in the manger?" But there is little wit and less reason in
these booklets to recommend, or to justify aught but oblivion.

A more able and important foe than these was Harry S. Leigh, who in 1864 was editor of "The
Arrow," with Mortimer Collins as verse-writer and Matt Morgan as cartoonist. Leigh opened his
attack with rhymes that were greatly enjoyed at the time. They ran thus:--

RHYMES FOR A BIG BABY.

  No. I.

    "Sad stuff of Lemon's,"
  Think the bells of St. Clement's;
    "Not worth five farthings,"
  Sneer the bells of St. Martin's;
    "Going down daily,"
  Grunt the bells of Old Bailey;
    "Once it was rich,"
  Hint the bells of Shoreditch:
    "When could that be?"
  Ask the bells of Step-ney;
    "Hanged if I know,"
  Growls the big bell at Bow.

  No. II.

  Sing a song of threepence,
    A paper full of trash;
  Four-and-twenty "funny men"
    Have made a pretty hash;
  For when the paper's opened,
    One soon begins to sing--
  "Oh! threepence is a dainty price
    To pay for such a thing."

And he returns to the charge later on in a set of verses in which he pretends to pay tribute
to Punch's bygone force--"honest if delicate"--and to Judy's and Toby's straightforward roughness.
After making charges of corruption, he proceeds:

  "Alas! how times and manners pass!
    When no one fears a panic--
  When Scotland tolerates the Mass--
    And Spain is puritanic;
  When Yankee 'anacondas' scrunch
    The South's heroic leader--
  Then may we find a pleasant Punch,
    And Punch a happy reader."

Nowadays the commoner form of humorous attack upon Punch is the assumption that it is a serious
journal: a cold-blooded analysis of its contents will be made, or the quotation of its best
bits under the ungrateful title of "Alleged Humour from Punch;" or a joke will be printed and
savagely "quoted" as "From next week's PUNCH." When the three "New Humorists," Messrs. Barry
Pain, Jerome, and Zangwill, were driven to despair (so says one of them) by the sneers of the
Press, they met in solemn conclave and swore never to make another joke. So Mr. Zangwill set
to work at a serious novel. Mr. Jerome took to editing a weekly paper, and Mr. Pain began writing
for Punch! Even when Mr. Pincott, for thirty years the "reader" on the paper, committed suicide
the day after his wife was buried, a number of papers could not resist the temptation that
was offered. "Fancy having to read through all Punch's jokes week after week for years!" exclaimed
one. "No wonder we are a hardy race. No wonder the poor man shot himself." Mr. Pincott was
a man of great ability, of remarkable erudition, and extreme conscientiousness. Although his
bereavement was preying on his mind, he saw the paper out, and did not commit the fatal act
until he had sent his usual letter to the Editor, wherewith he would relieve himself of his
week's responsibility. "I never met a man with so much information and of so varied a character,"
writes one of his fellow-workers. "He never passed a quotation without verifying it, and could
give you chapter and verse for everything. He knew his Shakespeare by heart, and all the modern
poets, and he was never at fault in his classics." He was not, however, allowed to leave the
world without a farewell gibe and a laugh, for Wit knows no mercy.

Another main charge laid at Punch's door is that he is too little like Hogarth in the past,
too little like French satirists in the present. Thackeray's proud boast that the paper had
never said aught that could cause a girl's cheek to mantle with a blush,[26] is acknowledged
by the naturalist and realist of the day as the severest condemnation that could be brought
against it. "We do not want in Punch a moral paper virginibus puerisque," says M. Arsène Alexandre,
in effect, in his important work "L'Art du Rire;" "Punch is un peu trop gentleman. What we
want is to be enlightened." But Punch has not chosen to cast the beams of his search-light
on to that side of "life" which is turned towards vice; and if he determines that the liaisons
and all the attendant world of humour that afford inspiration to the talent of the Grévins,
the Forains, the Guillaumes, and the Willettes of France, are outside his field of treatment,
who shall blame him? If there is any moral at all to be gleaned from the work of the Punch
caricaturists, it is argued, it is the never-ending sermon, though the sermon is a humorous
one, of the non-existence of immorality. Perhaps; but Punch does not aspire to reflect the
savagery we call civilisation by painting a Hogarthian "Progress," nor to preach virtue by
depicting vice. It is no doubt very appalling and amusing to hear a young girl-cynic say, as
she points to a hideous monkey in a zoological gardens--"He only wants a little money to be
just like a man!" Ça donne à penser; but Punch prefers wholesome jests to irony and repellent
cynicism, and is content to leave his impeachment in the hands of his spice-loving detractors,
even at the risk of being reminded year by year that "Gentle Dulness ever loves a joke."

Another fruitful source of adverse criticism is an occasional slip on Punch's part in respect
to some point of fact. Then at once half a dozen papers are on his track with an eagerness
that suggests the idea that they were lying in wait. First come the matters of detail, as when
the "Athenæum" (January, 1877) justifiably complained that the popular conception of the imperial
crown of the Empress of India as a four-arched structure, like that of Germany, is due to the
mistake of Punch, "whose artists are always falling into this error in their cartoons of the
Empress of India." In 1879 Sir John Tenniel was challenged by Mr. Sala on the correctness of
the balloon in his frontispiece to the seventy-sixth volume, and in March, 1893, Mr. du Maurier
was soundly rated for showing a group of Oxford undergraduates, in the rooms of one of them,
wearing cap and gown with perfect docility. Yachtsmen fell foul of Mr. Sambourne for introducing
an ensign on a staff in his famous drawing of "The Times Tacking;" for such a staff, stuck
on the taffrail with the boom touching it, was "an impossible object," and would have been
instantly snapped off, while, moreover, the ensign should have been at the peak. In another
admirable drawing Punch once showed a ship on the starboard tack while the helmsman is steering
on the port tack, and the ship, by what appears a miracle, is lying over to the wind; and,
again, Toby is actually shown in the Almanac for 1895 drawing a cork from a champagne bottle
with a cork-screw! Then photographers are as resentful of inaccuracy as bicyclists; and the
fact that Mr. Hodgson in the second of his two drawings, "To be well shaken before taken" (August,
1894), representing an "'Arry on 'orseback" first whipping up his horse before being photographed,
and then posing before the "seaside tintype man," placed the equestrian between the sun and
the lens, was warmly taken up; for would not the result, forsooth, be "the loss of the picture
in a flare spot?"

The literary error, too, is held to be inexcusable, and Punch is pointed at with scorn for
a misquotation from Horace; or an incorrect rendering in one of his drawings of an antiquarian
inscription; or a slip in a Shakespearean line; or an inaccuracy in slang or dialect. Scottish,
Irish, Suffolk, or Yorkshire must all be perfectly rendered, or the natives will know the reason
why. In August, 1894, Mr. Hodgson sent from the Yorkshire moors a story of a keeper who, dissatisfied
with the calendar, replies to a sportsman's inquiries: "Well, sir, middlin', pretty middlin'.
But, oh dear, it's awk'ard this 'ere Twelfth bein' fixed of a Sunday! Now might Mr. Gladstone
ha' had hanything to do wi' that arrangement, sir?" An outraged correspondent--a fluent Yorkshire
conversationalist, of course--at once corrected the original version and translated it into
the true vernacular: "Nobbut middlin', sir, nobbut middlin'. But, ah lad, it's a fond business
this puttin' t' Twelfth o' a Sunday. Div ye think 'at owd Gladstone 'ad owt to do wi' it?"
And again Punch rarely introduces "mon" (as an equivalent for "man") into his Scotch jokes
without producing a disclaimer against this alleged "peculiarly British error."

A third form of mistake commonly gloated over is that which touches some general fact of economics
or social matters. An example of this was Mr. Linley Sambourne's drawing, entitled "An Embarras
de Richesses," graphically illustrating the glut of money in "the City" in the summer of 1894.
The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street is shown standing on a pile of bags of bullion impatiently
waving back the City men who are pressing forward with more bags of gold, which bags are labelled
"Deposits." But the Bank of England allows no interest on deposits, as suggested by the drawing
and its accompanying verses; and the draughtsman, explained one of the financial papers which
gleefully called attention to the misconception, "thought it was the Old Lady who had reduced
her deposit rates to one-half per cent."

But what are considered the most heinous, as well as the rarest, of all blunders are those
of policy or important movements, which, of course, concern large bodies of men, whether they
constitute a party, a constituency, or a strike. A case in point was the cartoon dedicated
(August, 1893) to the miners on strike in Northumberland and Durham: but at that particular
moment it was the miners of other districts who were so involved. Another instance was the
substitution of Mr. Logan, M.P., for Mr. Leon, M.P. (December, 1893), in a Parliamentary picture
that illustrated an incident mentioned in the "Essence of Parliament." But it may be taken
that the error was rather a slip than a blunder that represented "Toby barking up the wrong tree."

It is natural, of course, that the "faddists" should be among Mr. Punch's most impatient critics,
because "fad" and "cant" have always been Punch's pet ground-game that he loves to run to earth.
It is perhaps from the Temperance party that he has had most sport, for he has always taken
delight in the pictures they dislike the most--the incomparable drawings of Leech and Keene,
which show the humorous, instead of only the hateful, side of inebriety; and he chuckles as
he reads, now their protests against Mr. Bernard Partridge's excruciating pictures of a drunken
man's "progress," now the plaintive paragraph that "in a recent issue of Punch more than twenty-five
per cent. of the advertisements concerned hotels, wines, spirits, and mineral waters!"

And, lastly, there is the critic who is always bewailing Punch's deterioration--an impending
dissolution which has been announced from the second number!

People in Society seem curiously fond of expressing this opinion to the members of the Staff
themselves, if all the stories current are to be believed. "Well, you know, Mr. Milliken,"
once remarked a lady, "I do not think Punch is as good as it used to be." "No," assented the
creator of 'Arry; "it never was!"

For such as these there is and can be no comfort; for them there is no excellence save in the
past; no inferiority save in the present. The perusal of humorous papers is of course but a
poor occupation for pessimists such as they, and it is hardly likely that it could ever awaken
in them sentiments other than those so tersely put by the "Gentlewoman's" poet:--

  "In vain I search for humour each
    And every 'comic' 'neath the sky.
  Alas! I fear the busy Leech
    Has sucked the vein of humour dry!"

FOOTNOTES:

[25] "Anti-Punch, or the Toy-shop in Fleet Street; a Romance of the Nineteenth Century." By
the Author of "Anti-Coningsby." 16mo. 1847.

[26] This declaration, if not absolutely accurate, has often been repeated, and was confirmed
at the Church Congress of 1893 by Dr. Welldon, who held up Punch as the one clean paper for
the rest of the Press to follow!

It was in 1843 that Mr. Swain engraved his first block for Punch. It was a drawing by Leech,
on p. 50 of the fourth volume, to illustrate one of Albert Smith's "Side-Scenes of Society."
The services of Landells, it will be remembered, had been suddenly dispensed with by the proprietors--for
reasons of business jealousy according to Landells, though the proprietors gave out, in some
quarters at least, for lack of proper excellence in his work. When they had decided to give
Landells his congé, Bradbury and Evans looked about for another to replace him, and offered
the engraving to one of the brothers Jewett. By him the task was readily undertaken, although
he was, as he knew, wholly unable to carry it out; and when a block with one of Leech's drawings
upon it was sent to him as a test, he offered the execution of it to his young acquaintance,
Joseph Swain. So pleased was Leech with the result that he strongly recommended that the man
who had cut such a block should, in place of the middleman, be installed as manager of the
engraving department; and from that time forward that important portion of the work has remained
in the hands of one of Punch's most faithful, loyal, and talented servants, of whom Punch has
happily had so many.

Mr. Swain had been brought up by his father from Oxford, his natal town, when he was nine years
of age, and five years later had been placed with N. Whittock, a draughtsman of Islington,
to learn the art and craft of wood-cutting. But though Mr. Whittock was something of an artist,
he was less of an engraver; and finding after a few years that he was making but little progress,
young Swain applied for instruction to Thomas Williams. That distinguished engraver was one
of the few excellent "facsimile men" of the day; and he agreed to accept the applicant as "improver."
At that time he was engaged in engraving the blocks of an edition of "Paul et Virginie"--the
well-known illustrated edition which was published in Paris in 1838. For at that time there
were fewer facsimile engravers in Paris than in London, and what there were, in point of ability,
were not to be compared with the Englishmen; so that it was no uncommon thing for the best
work to be sent from France to be executed in this country. On this particular work Meissonier,
Johannot, Horace Vernet, and others had been engaged; and when that was finished, the series
of works published by Charles Knight provided endless work for the skilled gravers at Williams'
command: Harvey's "Arabian Nights," "Shakespeare," and the "History of Greece," and other notable
works. It was a great school of engravers that existed then, both of masters and pupils, and
included, besides Thomas Williams himself, his brother and sister, Samuel and Mary Ann Williams
(a brilliant engraver she, who never gained her due of reputation), John Thompson, Orrin Smith,
W. J. Linton, John Jackson, Mason Jackson, W. T. Greene, Robert Branston, Landells, the Dalziel
Brothers,[27] and Edmund Evans. Most of them were soon employed by W. Dickes, under whose management
the Abbotsford edition of Scott's works was being executed; and to Dickes, Joseph Swain also
transferred his services. In due course the young engraver left that establishment, and had
not long been on the look-out for a satisfactory opening when he received from Jewett the little
commission which landed him in a very short time in the service of Punch, in which he remained
until he retired from business in favour of his son, after a completed period of half a century.

For some years Mr. Swain remained at the head of the Punch engraving department, devoting himself,
and his six or eight assistants, exclusively to Punch work. He then pointed out to the proprietors
how, by conducting and extending the business on his own account, he could carry out their
work more economically while increasing his own field of operations and doubling his earning
powers. The suggestion was acted upon, and the result proved satisfactory to both parties.
For by this time he had educated the necessary engravers to that style of facsimile cutting
in which he himself, and but few besides, had been specially trained, and he was enabled to
keep the weekly expense of engraving Punch down to an average of under thirty pounds, and at
the same time to spend his superfluous energies on many of the most famous illustrated books
of his day.

For many years the boxwood blocks on which the drawings were made consisted of a single piece;
for, as already explained, Charles Wells of Bouverie Street, at first a cabinetmaker of rare
excellence, and later on a boxwood importer, had not then invented the device which revolutionised
newspaper illustration--that of making a block in six or more sections which could be taken
apart after the drawing had been made (and later on photographed) upon its surface and distributed
among the engravers, and then screwed together again when each man had completed his own little
piece. The invention which led to such an economy of time was only introduced in 1860 or thereabouts.
For nineteen years Punch had to see his big blocks cut on a single piece of wood, which was
one of the reasons why the earlier cartoons and "pencillings" were, as a rule, so much more
roughly drawn and hastily cut. In those early days a single "round" of wood was used--a "round"
that had been cross-cut from the trunk of the tree. This was always kept seasoning until by
natural shrinkage it had split up to the centre, when a tongue-shaped piece of box was fitted
into the triangular vacancy and screwed firmly through. Then the block was squared as well
as its shape permitted, and when its surface had been properly prepared, it was ready for the
artist.

As I find myself discussing technical details in Punch production, it may be well to go a step
further, for such matters can hardly fail to interest the reader. The cartoon, for reasons
of economy of time, has always, up to 1893, been drawn upon the wood[28]--not upon paper, as
has been possible to the rest of the Staff for a good many years past--and is delivered into
Mr. Swain's hands by Friday night. Twenty-four hours later the engraving of the block is completed,
and it is handed over to the printers, who are already clamouring for it to be put in their
formes--for there is no time to electrotype it, nor of course to stereotype the pages. Stereotyping,
indeed, has been the latest of the innovations on Punch--an innovation to be reckoned but a
year or two old--for Punch, in his own house at least, is a Conservative among Conservatives.
What was always present in the publisher's mind was that the "foreign edition" had to be ready
printed off by Monday morning, and every moment was necessarily grudged during which the machines
were not running--even those few short minutes when a sheet or two of the paper, at first starting,
were taken to Mr. Swain to be judged as to the printing of the cuts, or as to whether they
wanted a little more "colour," or a little pressure taken off. "To myself," Mr. Swain tells
me, "it has always been a pleasing reflection that during the whole time of my connection with
Punch, extending over fifty years, I have never once failed to get my work done in time and
without accident. Of course, now and again it has been a very near thing, but it has always
been done somehow."

It has ever been matter for surprise to outsiders that the conductors of the journal could
tempt Fate so recklessly as to put the original wood-blocks on the machines. As has been seen,
there was no alternative. But the fact remains that they ran a continual risk for fifty years
which no other journal would care to face for a single week; for an accident to a single block
(and such accidents are all too common) would have jeopardised the whole week's edition, as
no other original existed (as it exists nowadays) from which the damaged block might be reproduced,
or by which it might be superseded.

So it was only after the printing of an edition that the blocks were electrotyped. It is a
curious fact that after 70,000 or 80,000 had been printed these blocks were nearly always found
as good as new so far as the wood was concerned; only towards the end of the edition the blocks
would sometimes get so filled up that some of the fine work was entirely lost, and the electros
then taken suffered in consequence. An examination of this substance would show that it consisted
of lime and pulp from the paper itself, compressed in a solid body so hard that it almost defied
the graver to remove it.

Those early days were halcyon times for Punch engravers. Mark Lemon would come down two or
three times a week to edit and make up the paper, and would talk leisurely with Mr. Swain of
such matters as concerned the engraver. No block was hurried. If it could not be ready for
one week, it was held over for the next--a saving grace which the engraver has now and again
acknowledged by drawing an initial or other simple design on the wood half an hour before going
to press, when the Editor hurriedly required such a decoration--possibly to supply an artist's
omission. Such sketches were "The Cabman's Ticket" in February, 1854, put upon the wood from
a scribble by Gilbert à Beckett--his sole artistic contribution to Punch; "Broom v. Brush"
in May, 1859; and "The Turkish Bath" in 1880. And, above all, "process" had not yet held out
its alluring promise of nearly equal results, to the inexpert eye, at a quarter of the cost
of wood-engraving.

In another way did Mr. Swain place his mark on the pages of Punch--by the introduction of many
a young artist to the Editor. It was he who thus introduced Mr. T. Harrington Wilson to Mark
Lemon, Mr. Ralston to Shirley Brooks, R. B. Wallace (whose acquaintance he had made through
Mr. Frederick Shields) and Mr. Wheeler to Tom Taylor, and others, too, to the various rulers
of Punch. In some cases the artists themselves approached the engraver; in others, it was the
Editor who would ask him to recommend some clever designer who could best execute this or that
little drawing which he wanted done. Further service rendered by him was the share he took
in educating several of Punch's more imposing personages for the work they had to do--such
as Doyle, McDonnell, and others.

It has often been quoted of Leech that after he had shown a drawing on the wood to any friend
who might happen to be with him, he would add with a sigh--"But wait till next week and see
how the engraver will spoil it!" This was a piece of unintentional injustice, for the fault
lay with the conditions of rapid printing (for Punch has always been, and still is, printed
on a cylinder machine)--with the printer, the ink-maker, and the paper manufacturer more than
with the engraver, as a glance at the proofs of the engravings will show.

Speaking of this matter, Dean Hole says: "If the position of an eyelash was altered, or the
curve of a lip was changed, there might be an ample remainder to convey the intention and to
win the admiration of those who never knew their loss, but the perfection of the original was
gone. Again and again I have heard him [Leech] sigh as he looked over the new number of Punch;
and as I, seeing but excellence, would ask an explanation, he would point to some almost imperceptible
obliquity which vexed his gentle soul." It is a curious fact that, in common with most draughtsmen,
Leech never became reconciled to the fact that black printer's-ink cannot exactly render the
tender grey tones of a hard lead pencil; but to the fact that he had not much to complain of
Mr. Frith bears witness: "I once saw one of Leech's drawings on the wood, and I afterwards
saw it in Punch, and I remember wondering at the fidelity with which it was rendered. Some
of the lines, finer than the finest hair, had been cut away or thickened, but the character,
the vigour, and the beauty were scarcely damaged." In connection with this subject Mr. Layard,
in his "Life of Charles Keene," compared a photogravure and a wood-block of one of the Punch
pictures, with the principal, though unintended, result of proving how indulgent are wood-engraving
and the tool of the skilled craftsman to the artist who inconsiderately persists in using grey
inks of varying intensities and subtle lines of indefinite thicknesses on paper of various
colour-patches, when reproduction upon wood is his sole ultimate aim.

As Mr. Swain lived for some time close to Thackeray's house, it was an occasional custom of
his to call on his way to the office to see if the great "Thack" had any blocks ready that
he might carry away with him. The novelist was usually at breakfast when he called, and would
request that his visitor might be shown into the library. There he would presently join him
and, if he were behindhand with his work, would request Mr. Swain to have a seat, a cigar,
and a chat, while he produced a Punch drawing "while you wait." "Ah, Swain!" he said one day,
looking up from his block, when he was more than usually confidential, "if it had not been
for Punch, I wonder where I should be!"

Mr. Joseph Swain retired in 1890 from the business he had formed, and handed it over to his
son, who had been many years identified with it, and still continues the weekly engraving of
the Punch cartoon. Wood-engraving has now been abandoned for all other illustrations, the first
process block tried on the paper being Mr. Linley Sambourne's drawing called "Reconciliation,
a scene from the new screaming farce, the 'Political Box and Cox,'" on the 3rd December, 1892
(p. 273); but that the innovation has been equally happy in the case of every artist I am not
prepared to maintain.

FOOTNOTES:

[27] Mr. George Dalziel writes to me: "For myself I was somewhat intimately connected with
the publication from its birth; being associated with Landells as an engraver, it fell to my
lot to engrave ... the first drawing contributed by John Leech, under the title of 'Foreign
Affairs,' with many of the cartoons by Kenny Meadows, as well as many of the drawings of every
artist engaged upon the journal, so long as Landells had anything to do with Punch."

[28] With the exception of the Almanac cartoon, for which the engraver has ample time.

Mark Lemon was thirty-one when he found himself co-editor of Punch. His salary, it is true,
was not more than thirty shillings a week; but it was to rise before his death to fifteen hundred
pounds a year--a higher amount, it is said, than has been received by any other "weekly editor,"
before or since. However, he had found financial salvation; for although his playwriting had
not been unsuccessful--and by the time he died his pieces were to be numbered by the score--the
drama in the days of short runs was not a remunerative form of literature. His natural bonhomie
stood him in good stead; it charmed his friends and non-plussed his enemies. Of the latter,
it must be admitted, he had more than enough--or, at least, men to whom he was intensely antipathetic.
One eminent journalist--more eminent than Mark himself--writes him down "a mealy-mouthed sycophant;"
and another, hardly less popular, went further still in his denunciation, and, if he were to
be believed, Mark Lemon must have been one of the most accomplished humbugs of his time. "There
was nothing good about Mark," said a distinguished draughtsman, who worked with the Punch Editor
for many a long year, "but his laugh." But against this criticism--which was that of men whose
judgment ought to be clear and sound, and was, moreover, shared by others--there is an overwhelming
mass of evidence in favour of Lemon's extreme amiability, kindness, and geniality. He, naturally,
was the butt of rival comic papers, who would taunt him with his Jewish descent, with the mildness
of his jokes and humour, and the bitterness of his false friendship. A favourite form was to
print among supposed "Births" such a line as this: "On Wednesday, the 26th ult., at Whitefriars,
Mr. Mark Lemon, of a joke, stillborn."

But Lemon could well afford to ignore all such attacks. Mr. George Chester, his life-long friend,
pronounced him the prince of cronies, and I have seen many letters from him instinct with affection
and jovial humour. One of them, by the way, gives information that "our nursemaid has the chicken-pock,
and we expect to see her throw out feathers to-morrow." When he entered the composing-room
he was invariably received with a cheer by the men, whom he called "my Caxtonian Bees." Charles
Dickens believed in him as "a most affectionate and true-hearted fellow," and so described
him to Sir A. H. Layard (in whose interest Dickens arranged for Tenniel's fine "Nineveh Bull"
cartoon to be published); and though he quarrelled with him, because Lemon had the courage,
chivalry, and uprightness to take Mrs. Dickens's side against her husband, he brought the estrangement
to a close with a kindly message when Lemon first appeared as Falstaff. Mr. Joseph Hatton carries
his friendly admiration almost to the point of Lemonolatry; and the man who could inspire such
friendship must assuredly have been endowed with sterling qualities and with a lovable nature.

"Mr. Lemon impressed me," writes Mr. E. J. Ellis, "as the kindest and most lovable elderly
boy I had ever seen. He evidently accepted my little sketches only for the promise, not the
performance, of them. Some were rejected. This was done so genially that I found myself hastening
to refuse my own drawings for him rather than put him to the effort of sparing my feelings
while doing so. 'Here I sit,' he said, 'like a great ogre, eating up people's little hopes.'
Then he showed me his waste-paper basket, and added--'But what am I to do? Look here!' I confess
I never saw, except on pavement in coloured chalks, such nerve-twisting horrors as the paper
sketches people sent." It is obvious from this that the writer never watched the pictures entering
the Royal Academy on Sending-in Day.

Mark Lemon loved Punch; as well he ought. He refused to visit America to give his readings
on terms that were highly alluring, as he could not find it in his heart to abandon the command,
even for a time, nor bear to miss his two days a week at Whitefriars. When he said truly that
he and Punch were made for each other, and that he "would not have succeeded in any other way,"
he might fairly have added, had he wished, how hard he had laboured for that success. Mr. Birket
Foster has drawn me a vivid picture of how in those early days he had to visit Lemon in his
Newcastle Street lodgings, and, mounting to the topmost storey, found him in an untidy, undusted
room, sitting in his shirt-sleeves, with Horace Mayhew by his side plying the scissors, working
at the weekly "make-up" of Punch with the desperate eagerness that was, in time, to bear so
rich a harvest.

How Mark Lemon helped to bring together the original Staff has already been seen. It was, doubtless,
his sound display of business capacity and character, in addition to his literary aptitude,
that induced Henry Mayhew and Landells to nominate him as one of the co-editors--for that was
a quality in which both Henry Mayhew and Stirling Coyne were confessedly deficient. "There
are forty men of wit," says Swift, "for one man of sense." So the paper was started, and the
very first article, "The Moral of Punch," was Lemon's;[29] but neither then nor after did he
write much for it, though he still contributed a certain amount of graceful, serious verse,
under the title of "Songs for the Sentimental," with a farcical last line which affects the
reader suddenly like a cold douche. He wrote, as well, many short epigrams, paragraphs, and
the like, besides being a fairly prolific suggestor of the cartoons; but the sum of his literary
labours on the paper would not compare with that of the members on the Staff. To him fell the
organisation, administration, and practical making-up of the paper.

In the early days of Punch, during those infantile convulsions to which the paper threatened
to succumb, Mark Lemon assured his position by the great zeal with which he carried out his
duties; and at the transfer of Punch he was left sole Editor, by the fiat of the new proprietors.
Stirling Coyne left without real regret, though in considerable dudgeon at his treatment; he
had many other irons in the fire, and the conditions of journal-weaning were unattractive to
him. But to Henry Mayhew it was a bitter disappointment. It was he who had made Punch what
it was; he found himself ousted from his legitimate position, and he considered, in his own
words, that Mark Lemon "had allowed himself to be bought over," so that a coolness sprang up
between the two men which was never quite removed.

In his work Lemon did not spare himself. For a time Horace Mayhew was his sub-editor, to whom
fell the usual duties of the post--("Be it yours," as a careless speaker in the office nicknamed
"Heavens!" is traditionally said to have advised, "Be it yours, 'Orace, to hurge the hartises
[artists] hon!")--but before long Lemon took that duty upon himself, driving round to the chief
contributors one day in the week to satisfy himself that their drawings and "copy" would be
to time. The story goes that he always employed the same driver, and that when the man was
about to replace the old vehicle with a new one, he suggested to Lemon, with glowing pride
at the brightness of the idea, that he should have a figure of Punch emblazoned on the panels.
In later years Lemon's son Harry acted as his secretary, and sometimes, though unofficially,
as his sub-editor, and generally undertook the "travelling" for his father.

It was in Lombard Street, Whitefriars, of classic memory, that Bradbury and Evans carried on
the practical part of their business; and here Mark Lemon might often be seen, radiant and
effulgent as the circulation rose. In May,1843, Punch had removed from Wellington Street, Strand,
to 194, Strand, an office which he gave up to his young rival, "The Great Gun," in January,
1845, in order to remove to 92, Fleet Street. Here he only remained for a couple of months,
and, migrating in March of the same year, he set up for good and all in 85, Fleet Street, on
the very site in St. Bride's Churchyard of the tailor's house where Milton once kept school.
In the editorial office the Punch Staff would often write their articles, Thackeray especially
taking advantage of the convenience. "In three hours more," he wrote to Mrs. Brookfield in
1850, "Mr. W. M. T. is hard at work at Punch office."

The management of the weekly "copy," the arrangement for series, and the dealing with outside
applications of all sorts, quite apart from artistic contributions, were together no light
task for the Editor, especially when one or other of the writers failed him, and the illustrations
that were to accompany their articles had to be retaken into consideration. From the beginning
outside contributions were remorselessly discouraged; yet some remarkable poems and sketches
have come to Punch unsolicited from famous and brilliant pens, as will subsequently be seen.
Still, the paper has always been a fairly close borough--as, after all, it has a perfect right
to be; and by that means has been enabled to keep its distinctive colour--in contrast with
the "Fliegende Blätter," for example, whose staff may truly be said to consist of the whole
German people. To each writer was allotted a certain space, which he was expected to fill;
and when there was a deficit in the amount of his contribution--which there generally was,
and a heavy one--it was duly entered up. Thus for a long while Douglas Jerrold's half-yearly
total was theoretically 162 columns (or a weekly average of six and a quarter); Gilbert à Beckett's,
135 columns (five and a quarter); Percival Leigh's, Tom Taylor's, and Horace Mayhew's, 54;
and Thackeray's, 46 columns; but few of them ever came up to their proper total. In earlier
days, before Albert Smith left, the following were the weekly tasks: Jerrold, five columns;
Gilbert à Beckett, four; Smith and Leigh, two each; and after Smith's departure à Beckett succeeded
to Jerrold's figures.

The records of the Staff's contributions were kept as follows, their relative proportions being
exactly shown.

From this table it will be seen that Douglas Jerrold contributed as much as 139 columns to
Vol. VII. and Gilbert à Beckett 122 to the next; and that the Editor's section after Vol. VI.
was to some extent split up under the names of the individual contributors who composed it.
In addition to these names during the period covered by the table, there may be added those
of Tom Hood (3-3/4), T. J. Serle, Charles Lever, Horace Smith, and Doyle.

Another source of trouble to the Editor was the holiday-time as it came round, for the Staff
would scatter itself and, though arrangements were made of course beforehand, the paper was
sometimes run in a curiously undermanned condition. Thus, for example, on the week of August
12, 1848 (No. 370), Jerrold was at Guernsey, Thackeray was at Brussels, Horace Mayhew at Ramsgate,
and Tom Taylor away on circuit. The whole paper was in consequence written by three men--by
Gilbert à Beckett and Percival Leigh at home, and by Horace Mayhew, who thoughtfully sent in
more than four columns from the country, so that his absence should not be felt.

  AMOUNT OF TEXT (IN COLUMNS) CONTRIBUTED BY THE WRITERS INDICATED FROM
  VOL. VI. TO VOL. XIV. INCLUSIVE--FROM JANUARY, 1844, TO JUNE 24, 1848
  (NINE VOLUMES).

  KEY:
  A - Douglas Jerrold
  B - Gilbert à Becket
  C - Percival Leigh
  D - W. M. Thackeray
  E - John Oxenfold
  F - Editor
  G - Horace Mayhew
  H - Tom Taylor

  -------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+
    Vol. |   A   |   B   |   C   |   D   |  E   |   F   |   G   |   H   |
  -------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+
     VI. | 81-1/4|113-1/4| 41-1/2| 36-3/4| 4-3/4| 49-1/2|   --  |   --  |
    VII. |139-3/4| 94-3/4| 39    | 24-1/2| 1-1/2| 20    | 16-3/4|  6-1/2|
   VIII. | 91-1/4|122-1/2| 36    | 24    | 1-3/4| 13    | 17-3/4| 11-3/4|
     IX. | 91    |108-3/4| 32-3/4| 43-1/4| 4-1/2| 15    | 28-1/2| 12    |
      X. | 71-3/4| 99-1/2| 39-3/4| 39-1/2| 2-3/4|  6-1/4| 20    | 18-3/4|
     XI. | 77-1/4| 92    | 35    | 51-3/4|  --  |  2    | 44-3/4| 28-3/4|
    XII. | 70-3/4| 94-1/4| 43    | 46| --|  --  | 47-1/2| 23-3/4|   --  |
   XIII. | 48-1/4| 95-1/4| 40-3/4| 30-3/4|  --  |   --  | 45    | 42    |
    XIV. | 58-1/4| 80    | 39-3/4| 39-1/2|  --  |   --  | 59-1/4| 32-1/2|
   Total |729-1/4|900-1/4|348-1/4|336    |15-1/4|105-3/4|270-1/2|175-3/4|
  -------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+
  Average| 81    |100    | 39-2/3| 37-1/3|  --  |   --  | 31    | 19-1/2|
  per    |       |       |       |       |      |       |       |       |
  volume |       |       |       |       |      |       |       |       |
  -------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+

  I - Ferguson
  J - Laman Blanchard
  K - W. H. Wills
  L - Henry Mayhew
  M - Higgins (Jacob Omnium)
  N - Anonymous
  O - Mark Lemon
  P - MacGregor

  -------+------+-----+-----+----+-----+------+----+-----+---------
    Vol. |  I   |  J  |  K  | L  |  M  |  N   | O  |  P  |    --
  -------+------+-----+-----+----+-----+------+----+-----+---------
     VI. |  --  | --  | --  |--  | --  |  --  |--  | --  |    --
    VII. | 1-3/4|1-3/4|1    |--  | --  |  --  |--  | --  |    --
   VIII. | 4    |  3/4|  1/4|--  | --  |  --  |--  | --  |    --
     IX. | 1-3/4| --  |  1/2|--  | --  |  --  |--  | --  |    --
      X. | 9-1/4| --  | --  |--  | --  |  --  |--  | --  |    --
     XI. |   3/4| --  | --  |--  |2    |  --  |--  | --  |    --
    XII. |  --  | --  | --  |--  |1-3/4|  --  |--  | --  |    --
   XIII. |  --  | --  | --  |--  | --  | 4-3/4| 1/2| --  |    --
    XIV. |  --  | --  |  3/4|--  | --  |51-1/2|--  |3-3/4|    --
   Total |17-1/2|2-1/2|3-1/4| 1/4|2    |12    | 1/2|3-3/4|2,931-1/4
  -------+------+-----+-----+----+-----+------+----+-----+---------
  Average|  --  | --  | --  |--  | --  |  --  |--  | --  |    --
  per    |      |     |     |    |     |      |    |     |
  volume |      |     |     |    |     |      |    |     |
  -------+------+-----+-----+----+-----+------+----+-----+---------

At no time was Lemon's position an easy one, for his team, brilliant as it was, was sometimes
wont to jib, and even to kick over the traces, or, most serious of all, to fall ill; whereupon
the fountain of inspiration and supply would immediately dry up. When one failed, another would
have to be made to fill the space; and all the while susceptibilities had to be nursed and
respected as carefully as the well-being of the paper. Thackeray would now and then send a
letter of apology instead of his "copy," and Jerrold would fail for a week or two together;
and then Gilbert à Beckett with important contributions, and Horace Mayhew with a mass of little
ones, were the men who, in the early volumes, would rush quickly to the rescue. Lemon was patience
itself--he had no alternative perhaps--and could humour his Staff just as their humour demanded,
for he was a born diplomatist as well as editor. Moreover, he had an unerring instinct as to
what should and what should not appear in the paper; not alone on the ground of "good taste,"
as it was then understood, but of public feeling. This invaluable quality was acknowledged
by the rest of the Staff, and was probably the secret of Lemon's ability to retain his position
so long and with so much dignity, and to impose his will--suaviter in modo as was his habit--on
men who would brook such imposition from no one else. It was his moral balance they admired--that
judgment which in all his long career of satiric criticism kept him practically free from any
action for libel after he had taken his share in piloting the paper through its sea of early
troubles. He was watchful and discriminating, both as regards the contents of the paper and
the discussions at the board--where he would smooth over such an occasional storm as might
threaten, and be deaf to anything that a less skilful tactician than himself might have taken
notice of. Nevertheless, Lemon could take his own part if occasion required, and face his opponents
with all the vigour of his authority. The Proprietors themselves once felt the strength of
his character when they sought to challenge him on a vital point. Mark Lemon quickly assured
himself of the support of his Staff, and, rising from his seat, he said in a tone of command,
"Boys, follow me!" and made to leave the room. The struggle was over, and Lemon triumphed.
Similarly did he make a casus belli of the attempt of the Proprietors on his editorial rights
and dignity, when he was requested to appear at their meeting instead of their attending in
his room. And he went so far as to instal himself in a room on the other side of the way until
his point was conceded. He was, on the whole, a consummate Editor, who could cater for all
men, and yet keep his pages practically clean and irreproachable, and almost free from blunder;
all the while enlisting for it more and more of popular sympathy, and daily increasing its
influence.

Punch did not engage his exclusive energies. He was the first editor of the "Field." Then he
edited the "London Journal," and in trying to improve its tone and quality of literature by
the republication in its pages of the Waverley novels he well-nigh ruined it. These and other
matters he embarked upon, together with a number of small works, such as his volume of "Prose
and Verse" (which Jerrold said ought to have been called "Prose and Worse"), and his "Jest
Book," on the strength of which, it is said, Hans Christian Andersen, when in England, sought
an introduction to him and paid him the compliment of saying, "I am so glad to know you, Mr.
Lemon--you are so full of comic!"

Moreover, Lemon acted as a sort of secretary to Herbert Ingram, whom he served with great tact.
Ingram was a good deal identified with the Punch circle, sometimes in a friendly and sometimes
in a hostile way. He was owner, before he sold it to William and Robert Brough, of "The Man
in the Moon," Punch's arch-enemy, and in later years he started the "Comic News," with Edmund
Yates as editor, on purpose to oppose him. Yet several of the Punch men, notably Shirley Brooks,
worked on his "Illustrated London News," which was started in great measure to push "Parr's
Life Pills" (these were constantly mentioned and sometimes attacked in Punch), and Douglas
Jerrold found in him the capitalist for the "Illuminated Magazine." Mark Lemon it was who took
several of his Staff down to Boston to speak for Ingram during his candidature, an expedition
that was a greater electoral than oratorical success; and he again it was, so it is said, who
persuaded Mr. Ingram to drop the "Comic News," so that Punch might be rid of what was already
a troublesome, and might have become a very damaging, rival.

With equal zeal and skill and genial friendliness to recommend him, Lemon became a great favourite
in his own circle, for "Uncle Mark" was always ready to do his friends a good turn. In 1845
the Staff combined to present him with a silver inkstand--an interesting relic now in possession
of Mrs. F. W. W. Topham, his daughter--a reproduction of the lid of which is here given; while
the locket which, with a more substantial gift, was presented in 1866 to celebrate the Jubilee
of Punch (i.e. his fiftieth volume) and to mark the withdrawal of the Heads of the firm, was
inscribed as follows: "To Mark Lemon from his old friends W. Bradbury and F. M. Evans, on their
retirement, given at a dinner at Maidenhead, June 27th, 1866. Present--W. H. Bradbury, Shirley
Brooks, Wm. Agnew, G. du Maurier, F. C. Burnand, J. H. Agnew, C. H. Bennett, John Tenniel,
Horace Mayhew, F. M. Evans (Jim.), Henry Silver, T. Agnew (Jim.), Percival Leigh, Chas. Keene,
Mark Lemon, Wm. Bradbury, F. M. Evans." There is no doubt that, as time went on, Lemon became
more and more popular with his Staff, and each fresh appearance in Punch of his jolly face
under the low-crowned hat of John Bull, or the snow-sprinkled peak of Father Christmas, identified
him more closely with the paper and endeared him to his workers. Yet they liked to "score off"
him when they could, in return for the jokes he played on them. The story is told how, when
he had run down for a few days' holiday by the sea, he received the paper by post, and, tearing
off its cover, was horrified to find, not the cartoon they had agreed upon, but another, execrable
in taste and vile in execution, while undoubted libels and other offences were sprinkled with
hideous liberality about the pages. Moreover, the cartoon was awry, the date was wrong, and
a paragraph was upside down. Lemon turned cold all down his spine, and gasping "This comes
from my being away!" he determined to return to town without the loss of a moment. From this
point historians differ. Some say that Mark rushed to the station, quickly bought up every
copy of the awful issue that was for sale, and jumped into the railway-carriage with the bundle;
and that not before he was well on his way did he dare to open a copy to gaze again on the
hideous production; and when he did--he rubbed his eyes, for everything was just as it should
be! Then the light broke in upon him that he had been egregiously "sold," and he realised that
a copy had been specially prepared for his pleasing edification! Other commentators assert
that before Uncle Mark had time to leave for the station a telegram came, mercifully explaining
a joke which, it was felt, ought not to be carried too far. The reader will remember a similar
incident occurring in "Esmond;" and one wonders if the idea of that dummy copy of the "Spectator"
was not suggested by the hour's torture lovingly inflicted upon the Editor of Punch by his
affectionate and respectful Staff.

Mark Lemon died on May 23rd, 1870. He had been very ill on one or two previous occasions; even
as early as 1848 Jerrold had written to John Forster that "Lemon has been at Death's door--but
has kept on the outside." For nine-and-twenty years he had been at the helm; and although he
may not have been as paramount on Punch as some aver, there can be no doubt that he entirely
merited the compliment paid by Mr. Gladstone to his memory when, awarding a pension of £100
from the Civil List to Mrs. Lemon, he said that he had "raised the level of comic journalism
to its present standard." The proprietors, with generous sympathy, recognising the immense
services of their friend, at once set about making a collection for the widow and unmarried
daughters (for Lemon had been unsuccessful in his investments and speculations) and, with the
ready help of the Staff, prosecuted it with so much energy and goodwill that the sum of £1,500
was quickly raised.

He was lowered to rest in a coffin simply inscribed "Mark Lemon--Editor of Punch;" for in Punch
he had lived his life. "He believed," said Mr. Hatton, "in one God, one woman, one publication,"
as his surviving colleagues well knew. "If this journal," they wrote by the hand of Shirley
Brooks, "has had the good fortune to be credited with habitual advocacy of truth and justice,
if it has been praised for abstinence from the less worthy kind of satire, if it has been trusted
by those who keep guard over the purity of womanhood and of youth, we, the best witnesses,
turn for a moment from our sorrow to bear the fullest and most willing testimony that the high
and noble spirit of Mark Lemon ever prompted generous championship, ever made unworthy onslaught
or irreverent jest impossible to the pens of those who were honoured in being coadjutors with
him." And in the poem that follows, testimony is borne that--

  "... 'Twas his pride to teach us so to bear
    Our blades, as he bore his--keep the edge keen,
  But strike above the belt: and ever wear
    The armour of a conscience clear and clean."

The character of Henry Mayhew, and his share in the production of Punch, have already been
somewhat fully set forth. An old friend of his informs me that "he was lovable, jolly, charming,
bright, coaxing, and unprincipled. He rarely wrote himself, but would dictate, as he walked
to and fro, to his wife, whom he would also leave to confront his creditors. She was deeply
attached to him; and when his father died, she found that the careful solicitor had left her
a bequest of two pounds a week, payable to herself." And Postans, after he had lost his sight,
would now and then exclaim--"Although he treated me so badly, I should love to hear the sound
of his dear voice again!" There can be no doubt that Henry Mayhew was a genius, a fascinating
companion, and a man of inexhaustible resource and humour--though humour was but one side of
his brilliant mind. Indolence was his besetting sin; and his will was untutored.

     "An admirable all-round talker," Henry Vizetelly wrote to me
     shortly before his death, "Henry Mayhew was brimming over with
     novel ideas on all manner of subjects, from artificial production
     of diamonds to the reformation of ticket-of-leave men. He was
     constantly planning some new publication or broaching novel ideas
     on the most out-of-the-way subjects. He would scheme and ponder all
     the day long, but he abominated the labour of putting his ideas
     into tangible shape. He would talk like a book on any subject for
     hours together if he could only find listeners, but could with
     difficulty be brought to put pen to paper. Most of his books were
     written from his ideas by his younger brother Augustus, or were
     dictated directly to his wife, who acted as his amanuensis.
     Although he made considerable sums by his writings, he never seemed
     to have a shilling; and most of the letters he received were from
     dunning creditors. These missives, however, never troubled him, for
     he never broke the envelopes of one of them, but handed all his
     correspondence over to his wife to do as she pleased with and
     answer such letters as she thought necessary. He was very
     temperate. Whether he smoked as a young man, I am not aware; but
     he never smoked at the periodical evening gatherings at his house,
     when the guests could hardly see each other for the clouds of
     tobacco-smoke. On these occasions the most abstruse subjects were
     often discussed, and all we young wiseacres present contributed our
     modicum of knowledge towards the elucidation of problems that
     sorely perplexed the thinkers of the epoch. Although Mayhew would
     sit up till any hour as long as anyone would stay and listen to
     him, he never allowed this to interfere with his early-rising
     habits."

The impression made by Mayhew upon his contemporaries was invariably such as to command respect
for his intellectual capacity. Considering his deep, philosophic mind, says one critic, if
his lines had been cast in more serious places, he might have been a sociologist, the equal
of John Stuart Mill and Herbert Spencer. There is proof enough of this in that wonderful encyclopædic
work of "London Labour and London Poor," which displayed his original mind and his power of
research, as much as other books displayed his marvellous invention, fancy, and initiative,
and it is the only one of his undertakings which he had perseverance enough to carry through
to a triumphant conclusion--so far as it can claim finality. It was while he was engaged on
this work that Landells (according to a private letter) visited him and found him, in company
with his brother Augustus and William Jerrold, interviewing a "coster"--"drawing him," while
Horace Mayhew took down everything the man said.

Such was the man who conceived Punch as it came to be, and who wrote of it when it was established,
"I smell lots of tin thereabouts; but our Lemon requires a great deal of squeezing." What was
his connection with Punch, how he agreed with Lemon as to the transfer to Bradbury and Evans,
how he found himself replaced by (or, as he considered, outwitted by) Mark Lemon in the editorship
has already been recited. Nevertheless, he was retained as "Suggestor-in-Chief"--an office
which suited him well enough, considering his hatred of the drudgery of writing.

     "Mr. Henry Mayhew," writes Punch's ex-Printer, "the special
     joke-provider for Punch, was a most jocular character. He would
     stand beside the compositor while he was working at his case, and
     closely watch every movement of his hand in picking up each letter.
     He said he could not make out how ever the compositor could keep
     the alphabetical order of each box in his memory. So to master the
     mystery he set to work and learned the boxes for himself, and would
     often find amusement, when waiting for a proof, in setting up a few
     lines, very slowly at first, but, shifting the composing rule and
     thoughtlessly laying down the stick the wrong way, generally upset
     all his work, and so he gave it up in despair. This Mr. Mayhew was
     very clever in creating and roughly sketching out many of the small
     comic column illustrations, and would write the witty inscriptions
     for them. These would then go to the artist, who sketched out the
     idea and so completed it. In Punch, as in many other similar
     works, the mind to invent the idea caricatured, and the hand that
     pencils it, belong to two very different persons and capacities.
     Mr. Mayhew was very clever in this way, and anything of a comic
     nature he saw he would at once sketch off and then have a cut made
     of it. Most of the inimitable cuts in the first few volumes of
     Punch are of his invention. He was always sketching and taking
     rough notes of everything he saw. The great John Leech called him
     his indispensable 'Jack-all, or broad-grin provider.'"

In spite of his disappointment, Henry Mayhew remained with Punch until 1845. His last literary
contribution--"A Shaksperean Nursery Rhyme," on the subject of Macready playing Shakespeare
in Paris before Louis Philippe and Prince de Joinville--appeared in February of that year;
but he still attended the Dinners and made suggestions for cartoons, of which twelve were accepted
in that year. With his proposal, however, of the cartoon of "Don Roebucis," which was drawn
by Leech (14th March, 1846), his last word was said; and from that time forward his connection
with Punch ceased absolutely. He had given the paper its character and tone; he had suggested
its first great success, the Almanac; he had supported its transfer, whereby it was firmly
established; and he had cracked its biggest joke--the joke which is universally quoted to this
very day.[33] He died in 1887, at the age of 75, and his old friend celebrated him in verse,
none too correctly, though in the kindliest manner, ending thus:--

            ".... Farewell!
  The record of the age's course will tell
  Of him whose name a double honour bore,
  Comrade of Punch and champion of the poor."[34]

There was a fund of Irish humour in Joseph Stirling Coyne. He had proved it by his plays long
before he undertook his share of the co-editorship which was offered him at that "Edinburgh
Castle" meeting where so much of Punch's present and future was arranged. He was at that time
eight-and-twenty years of age; and although he was dramatic critic of the "Sunday Times," the
drama rather than the press was his natural field of action--indeed, he wrote no fewer than
five-and-fifty pieces of various kinds, besides plays in collaboration, and was secretary of
the Dramatic Authors' Society, until his death. Nevertheless, he belonged in a manner to the
inner circle of the "Punch set," and frequented the taverns that were their clubs; and he even
went in double harness with Mark Lemon as co-editor, vice "Alphabet" Bayley, of "The Bude Light"--an
English imitation of "Les Guêpes." He was, in fact, a man of some celebrity who had already
gained public reputation beyond the band of men, brilliant, no doubt, but, for the most part,
with their successes yet to come--so that he was accorded the important rôle which he filled
with peculiar modesty. He wrote extremely little, but he seems to have formed some distinct
notion of his share in the foundation, for Edmund Yates records how his father once came home
and, throwing the first number of Punch on the table, said, "Here is Stirling Coyne's new paper!"
At last Coyne was charged by Lemon (who always referred contemptuously to him as "Paddy") with
stealing one of his "Puff Papers" from a Dublin paper. At Punch's transfer Coyne quietly, though
discontentedly, retired from duties which had hitherto brought him neither reputation nor pleasure,
and only a hundred pounds in cash from Landells, and from Douglas Jerrold--as I learn from
one who heard it--a savage mot, referring to his somewhat uncleanly appearance, which will
undoubtedly adhere--"Stirling Coyne? I call him Filthy Lucre!"

From no choicer spirit than Gilbert Abbott à Beckett could Mayhew have sought for assistance
and literary support. He was the first applied to, and of all the Staff he had had by far the
most experience in the production of "comic papers," although he was only thirty years of age.
His brother, the late Hon. T. T. à Beckett, has told how he and his chum Henry Mayhew, his
junior by a year, with a consolidated share capital of three pounds and a mortgage to a printer
of future profits, prepared to start a "satirical paper," to be called "The Cerberus"--the
joint editors being then still young boys. As it happily befell, Mr. à Beckett, senior, discovered
a proof of the first number, and with his solicitorial eye discovered some forty-three clear
libels in the four columns. He hastened to the address on the imprint, and set the matter plainly
before the printer, who was only too glad to cancel the whole matter that had been "set" upon
payment of the bill. So deeply were the lads affronted by this unwarrantable interference with
their journalistic spirit and liberty of the subject that they ran away from home to Edinburgh,
walking all the way; but soon returned in a woeful plight. From that moment, Gilbert turned
journalist--it came to him as a second nature--and thenceforward supported himself by his pen,
while establishing a very fair position at the Bar, thanks to the support of his father's firm.

It was in 1831 that he presented himself prominently before the public. Jerrold's "Punch in
London" had not yet begun its little life of seventeen numbers, so that the moment was propitious
for à Beckett to embark on a venture of his own; and on December 10th it made its first appearance.
This was "Figaro in London," in which his youthful ardour and plain speaking found energetic
vent. He was always ready, in a humorous, bombastic sort of spirit, to smash the aristocracy,
to chaff Alfred Bunn, to abuse low-class Jews, and to discuss the theatre. In these agreeable
vocations he hit the popular taste, and certainly achieved a considerable circulation, which,
Timbs declares, reached at one time 70,000 copies. Small topical cuts, grandiloquently set
down as "magnificent caricatures," were well arranged as a rule, and things were going well
enough when editor and artist fell out; Robert Cruikshank took Seymour's place--and à Beckett's
monthly adulation of his old "cartoonist's" work turned suddenly to contempt.

All this was meant more than half in fun; it was too violently personal to be serious. Anyway,
à Beckett declared in the paper that "it is not true that Robert Seymour has gone out of his
mind--he had none to go out of," and Seymour retaliated heartily with a "sharp cut." In due
course Seymour resumed his place on "Figaro," and retained it to the end. In December, 1834,
à Beckett had handed over the paper, in the height of its prosperity, to Henry Mayhew, who
continued it for a time, and in 1839 it came to an end. Yet on so slender a basis as this has
been brought against à Beckett the cruel charge that it was these assaults which did at a subsequent
period drive Seymour out of his mind and led to his unhappy suicide.

After "Figaro" died, and indeed partly during its continuance, à Beckett launched out into
an extraordinary series of extraordinary papers, editing for other proprietors "The Wag," "The
Evangelical Penny Magazine," Dibdin's "Penny Trumpet," "The Thief" (under the engaging frankness
of whose title we may see the forerunner of "Public Opinion"), "Poor Richard's Journal," and
"The People's Penny Pictures;" while on his own account he ran successively "The Terrific Penny
Magazine," "The Ghost," "The Lover," "The Gallery of Terrors," "The Figaro Monthly Newspaper,"
"The Figaro Caricature Gallery," and "The Comic Magazine." But in spite of all this ingenuity
in title-devising, and of all this dogged perseverance--though one can hardly call it seriousness--not
one of these journals obtained public support. As a matter of fact, they were the journalistic
wild oats of a born journalist and an exuberant littérateur, who, as a youthful playwright
and a budding barrister, now had his hands quite full, yet--such was the fever of his industry--never
full enough.

His first contribution to Punch, according to W. H. Wills' statement, was "The Above Bridge
Navy" (p. 35, Volume I., 1841); but it is practically certain that "Commercial Intelligence"
in the first number is his. "I recollect well," says the Hon. T. T. à Beckett, in his Reminiscences,
"my brother--who wrote for it from the first number to the last that appeared in his life-time--bringing
me away from my office on an assurance that if I accompanied him as far as the Strand, he would
show me something that would fill me at once with gratification and amazement. He kept me in
suspense until I reached Catherine Street, when he stopped short and said, 'Now you shall see
me draw a pound from Punch, and if that don't amaze you and gratify you, you must have but
a poor sense of the marvellous and very little brotherly sympathy.'"

Just about the period when the negotiations were being carried on with Bradbury and Evans,
à Beckett began to fall off in the amount of his contributions, and for a time practically
ceased altogether. At this time he edited the "Squib" (28th May, 1842), a folio sheet published
at three-halfpence, very respectably conducted and printed, and owned by Last Punch's old printer,
illustrated by Henning, Hamerton, and Newman, Punch artists, treating many of Punch's pet subjects
in the Punch spirit, including "Physiologies," which the older paper had made its own. It was
also stated that several of the Punch Staff were among its contributors. However this may be,
the "Squib" went off in December of the same year, and à Beckett thenceforward worked loyally
for Punch for the rest of his life, and bequeathed moreover his two sons to Punch's service.

His popular "Songs for the Seedy," a series of eight poems, were published in this year in
Punch, as well as "Songs of the Flowers;" and soon his "Ballads of the Briefless" made a considerable
stir in Punch's circle. À Beckett had been called to the Bar some time before, so that his
ballads as well as the articles from his hand which appeared--and, from time to time, continued--over
the signature of "Mr. Briefless," had a touch of verisimilitude which went straight to the
soft places in the hearts and imagination of the Great Unbriefed. "Mr. Briefless" became an
institution in the paper, as, in other journals, Mr. O. P. Q. Philander Smiff, and again, in
a lower social scale, Mr. Alfred Sloper, became recognised by a later generation. This unfortunate
gentleman of the Bar--a gentleman always, in spite of his weakness of intellect and character--was
shown in all the difficulties germane to his barren profession, and in all the ludicrous situations
that came natural to the man. Many of his quaint aphorisms are still remembered, such as that,
elsewhere recorded--"As my laundress makes my bed, so I must lie upon it," and "The clerk brings
down his master's grey horsehair wig in sorrow to the Court." Yet he was not without self-respect,
not to say vanity, for on the occasion of a great political crisis, when the resignation of
the Ministry was impending, "Mr. Briefless" somewhat injudiciously left his retreat at Gravesend
and came up to London, in order to be on the spot should he be called upon to form or to join
the future Cabinet. The only summons he received, however, was from his tailor, and, with the
unfailing judgment and good sense that characterised him, he withdrew once more into the country.
"Mr. Briefless" and "Mr. Dunup," his friend, were creations that were at once recognised, and
were welcomed during the fifteen years of their occasional appearance.

In 1843 his "Punch's Heathen Mythology" followed Wills' chapters on the same subject, and in
the following year his "Comic Blackstone"--one of the cleverest burlesques of its kind in the
language--served another purpose than to amuse his readers: it forced him to study the commentaries--for
the first time, it was facetiously said--and so made a better lawyer of him, and helped to
fit him for the magisterial bench, to which he was soon to be summoned. His "Comic Bradshaw"
was another success, which Mr. Burnand repeated and improved upon years after in his inimitable
"Out of Town." Mr. Arthur à Beckett, speaking of his father's work, tells me: "I remember on
one occasion when my father had written a drama descriptive of the mysteries of Bradshaw, Leech,
to whom it was sent for illustration, introduced a series of portraits of the author. Lemon,
noticing this, suggested that the drama should end by the hero getting his head shaved, more
clearly to understand the intricacies of railway traffic. My father adopted the suggestion,
and Leech followed the 'copy.'"

It was not in these series that his chief work lay, however, but in the enormous mass of matter
he turned into Punch's pages month by month. He was by far the most prolific of all the contributors,
almost up to the time of his death. Articles humorous and pungent on every variety of topic,
verse graceful, bright, and comic, sparkling puns innumerable, with increasing thought and
sense as the man grew older and realised more and more the responsibility of his position and
Punch's--all flowed from him in an unceasing, easy stream, distinguished always for its fun
and facility. As his average contribution to each volume was a hundred columns, it will be
seen that in the time he was working for Punch his total of prose and verse amounted to three
thousand feet, or a column nearly as high as the Eiffel Tower! There was, besides, the amount
of "outside" work that came from his pen--he was leader-writer to the "Illustrated London News,"
and as such was the literary father of Shirley Brooks, the grandfather of Mr. Sala, and the
great-grandfather of Mr. James Payn. He was also leader-writer on the "Times," and on one occasion
actually wrote all the leaders of the day's issue. This strange coincidence arose from his
having had a leader "crowded out" from the day before, which was naturally set down for use
the next day, when he contributed his usual article without any question arising; and then
a sudden appeal upon a subject with which he was specially familiar brought into the paper
a third article from him--and that in the days, now fifty years ago, when the influence and
position of the "Times" were perhaps even greater, relatively, than they are to-day: at least,
when there was no competitor that could seriously pretend to share them. In addition to this
he edited Cruikshank's "Table Book," and wrote the Comic Histories of England and Rome. It
was, it is generally said, on the occasion of the first of these books being announced that
Douglas Jerrold wrote to Charles Dickens: "Punch, I believe, holds its course.... Nevertheless,
I do not very cordially agree with its new spirit. And Dickens replied in a letter thanking
him for sympathetic reviews, in Punch--"Anent the 'Comic ----' and similar comicalities, I
feel exactly with you."

Of course, with the exception of the latter part of Jerrold's outburst, wherein he was undoubtedly
right, all this protest is exaggerated nonsense--at least, as applied to à Beckett. One would
think that neither Jerrold nor Dickens could bear a burlesque in good taste--Jerrold of all
men! But it is just as likely that Jerrold was not referring to à Beckett at all, but to Thackeray,
whose "Miss Tickletoby's Comic History" had already made its appearance in Punch, and had been
incontinently stopped. In any case, the public did not agree with him, for both works are still
popular favourites. Moreover, he liked à Beckett too well to harm him in the mind of a common
friend; and he was unquestionably aware that the loftiness of à Beckett's aims and character
rendered him unassailable against a charge of irreverence or lack of respect. Certain it is,
at least, that when à Beckett died at Boulogne Jerrold felt the blow so deeply that he gave
up that town thenceforward as a place of residence, nor would he ever visit it again.

It was at the early age of thirty-eight that à Beckett was appointed police-magistrate, chiefly
owing to the masterly report he drew up as Poor-Law Commissioner in respect to the notorious
Andover Union Workhouse scandals[35]--"one of the best," said the Home Secretary, "ever presented
to Parliament." The appointment was much discussed, for the general feeling had been educated
in the views of Lord Selborne, who asserted that no "person" connected with the Press nor any
"gentleman in the wine trade" could be permitted to attain to such an honour as the Bench--an
absurdity which has long since been dismissed. On one occasion, it is said, when à Beckett
lived at No. 10, Hyde Park Gate South, Kensington Gore, he was instructed to hold himself in
readiness, as magistrate, to answer a summons to read the Riot Act in Hyde Park to the unruly
mob whose methods of protest against a popular grievance constituted the "Beer Bill Riots"
of 1855. That summons never came, luckily for him; for later in the day he discovered, to his
dismay, that his careful and solicitous wife, with greater respect for her husband's skin than
for the needs of Government, Police, and Proletariat combined, had gone out early, after securely
locking the unconscious magistrate in his library, and had prudently carried off the key.

À Beckett had been one of the shyest and most nervous men that ever lived, but his appointment
to the police-court--first at Greenwich, then at Southwark--removed much of his undue modesty,
and he was recognised as being energetic, sagacious, and humane. He was a tremendous worker,
incomparably quick, and above all was absolutely punctual in his delivery of "copy"--a virtue
quite sufficient to account for his popularity with publishers, who also were attracted by
his retiring and distinguished manners. Though his conversation was bright, he preferred to
keep his witticisms for his public or private writings, as when, in sending in a parcel of
"copy" to Mark Lemon, he wrote on the outside:--

  "Dear Mark--I do herewith enclose
  Some 'copy' both in verse and prose.
  'Tis neither very bright nor terse--
  The verse is bad--the prose is worse.
  But you, of course, will read and check it.
      Yours ever, G. etcet'ra Beckett."

This paper passed, as a wrapper, from Lemon to Mr. Birket Foster, and from the hands of that
gentleman to an autograph-hunter undiscoverable.

À Beckett's wit was exceedingly nimble, and as a consequence he was a facile punster. One of
his happiest jokes of the kind has been set on record. When the election of Louis Napoleon
appeared likely, the policy of Punch in respect to it was anxiously discussed at the Table.
One of the Staff--Thackeray most likely--declared that it would be wisest to be indefinite.
"Nonsense," said à Beckett, "if you're not definite, you'd better be dumb in it!"

While occupied in writing a series of papers called "Mr. Punch's Guide Books to the Crystal
Palace," illustrated by Tenniel, Gilbert à Beckett died at Boulogne from typhus fever, his
youngest son Walter predeceasing him by two days from the same complaint--the grief of any
knowledge of it, however, being happily spared the father. He was buried in Highgate Cemetery,
and the inscription engraved upon the tombstone was reproduced in an abbreviated and modified
form from the touching obituary notice in which his brother-workers, through Jerrold's pen,
testified to his merits and to their affection: "Endowed with a genial, manly spirit; gifted
with subtlest powers of wit and humour, they were ever exercised to the healthiest and most
innocent purpose. As a Magistrate, his wise, calm, humane administration of the law proved
that the fulfilment of the gravest duties is not incompatible with the sportiveness of literary
genius. 'His place knows him not,' but his memory is tenderly cherished."

The connection of Angus Bethune Reach with Punch was not of very long duration. With Albert
Smith he had been joint editor of "The Man in the Moon," and with Shirley Brooks was one of
the special correspondents of the "Morning Chronicle" in the South of France, as well as its
Parliamentary reporter. He had followed up Albert Smith's series of "Natural Histories," of
"The Gent," "The Flirt," and other specimens of English Society, with "Bores" and "Humbugs,"
which ran through several editions. He had joined "The Puppet Show" in 1848, while still quite
a youth; he had written "The Comic Bradshaw" (which found an echo in Punch years later) and
one or two successful novels, and had with Brooks laid siege to a position on Punch's Staff.
This, it might almost be said, he carried, as Brooks did, by assault; and having given up the
editorship of "The Man in the Moon" with its twenty-eighth number (1849), he was duly summoned
to the Punch Table.

His life was at that time hardly a pleasant one, though his industry (for the craze of work
was upon him) was as great as his versatility, and his field of labour as wide as his knowledge.
When he came to the Punch Table, he found his haven; but he was heckled, of course, by Douglas
Jerrold, on the score of his name and its quaint pronunciation. Concerning this name (pronounced
Re-ach in the German manner, anglice Re-ack), Angus once asked his father, a Writer to the
Signet, in the hearing of my informant, the late H. G. Hine, what on earth it meant. "As in
Highland Scotch," was the reply, "'Dhu' means 'black' and 'Roy' means 'red,' so Reach means
half-and-half, or 'brown.'" He therefore insisted on its proper pronunciation; with the natural
result. Jerrold delighted in teasing him about it, and at a Dinner at the "Ship" at Brighton,
where the Punch Staff held one of their meetings, Jerrold[36] leant forward at dessert and
asked--"Mr. Re-ack, may I pass you a pe-ack?" And on another occasion, when Reach protested
against Jerrold's persistent ill-treatment of his name, the wit replied, "Oh, I see. Re-ack
when we speak to you, but reach when we read you!"

At last, in 1854, Reach's incorrigible industry bore its Dead-Sea fruit; broken down with over-work,
his mind utterly gave way. Thereupon his friends of the Fielding Club, reinforced by Albert
Smith of "The Man in the Moon," joined together to play for his benefit Smith's pantomime burlesque,
"Harlequin Guy Fawkes; or, a Match for a King," at the Olympic Theatre, April, 1855. Arthur
Smith, Albert's brother, played pantaloon; Bidwell was harlequin; Joseph Robins, clown; Albert
Smith, Catesby; Edmund Yates, the lover; and Miss Rosina Wright ("always Rosy, always Wright,"
wrote Smith) was columbine. The rush, said E. L. Blanchard, was unprecedented, and stalls were
cheap at ten pounds. The great broadsword fight between Smith (Catesby) and Robins (Guy Fawkes),
in the rich traditions of the Surrey-Crummles School, was the hit of the evening, and has been
immortalised by Sir John Tenniel in his drawing for Punch (p. 149, Volume XXVIII.), entitled
"The Amateur Olympians." But Reach did not benefit long from the efforts of his friends, and
died before he was thirty.

FOOTNOTES:

[29] See p. 2.

[30] Douglas Jerrold writes to Hodder under date September 9th:--"I have been worked to death
for Punch, having it all on my shoulders, Mark, à Beckett, and Thackeray being away. Nevertheless,
last week it went up 1,500." Jerrold, it may be added, would at that time undertake some of
the editorial as well as the literary work.

[31] This was "The Little Frenchman's Second Lesson," an important poem occupying a whole page.

[32] Under "Editor" were entered all, except very special, contributions coming from outside.

[33] See p. 141.

[34] An example of Henry Mayhew's quaint presentation of his own experiences is to be found
in the paragraph he contributed under the title of "TAVERN CHARGES AT DOVER":--"Waiter! How
much is my glass of brandy-and-water?" "The bill, sir." "What! 10s. 6d.?" "Yes, sir, brandy's
2s.; never charge less." "Well?" "Sugar 6d.; never charge less." "Go on." "Waxlight and apartment,
5s." "Why, I've only been here five minutes." "That's not our fault, sir; we never charge less."
"Go on." "Servants, 2s." "What?" "Me, boots and chambermaid; never charge less." "Well, what
next?" "The use of plate, glass, and linen, 1s." "What do you mean?" "Teaspoon, tumbler, and
table-cloth; never charge less; but--we makes you a present of the biling water." "Very well,
there's your 10s. 6d., and I shall write to the 'Times.'" "Yes, sir--pen, ink, and paper, 1s.;
never charge less."

[35] A "Petition," supposed to come from the inmates (written by Percival Leigh), appeared
in Punch (p. 101, Volume IX.), in which the petitioners begged that some of the kitchen refuse
and pigs'-wash, hitherto used to overfatten swine, might be reserved for them. This petition
had an admirable effect.

[36] Hodder incorrectly gives the mot to Thackeray.

The remaining contributors to the first number were Joseph Allen, H. P. Grattan, and W. H.
Wills. The contribution of the first-named has already been indicated. H. P. "Grattan"--whose
real name was Plunkett, and whose occasional pseudonym was the familiar "Fusbos"--worked well
for the first numbers and for the Almanac. He was a witty versifier and clever dramatist, but
he soon tired of the paper and directed his energies into other channels. W. H. Wills--"Harry
Wills" he was always called--was a more important and a more faithful contributor. His first
verses were "A Quarter-day Cogitation" (p. 5), and for some time he was the regular dramatic
critic of Punch, in which a considerable amount of space was accorded to the review of amusements
of all kinds, and not a little to Charles Kean and his histrionic deficiencies. Besides "Punch's
Theatre," he wrote paragraphs, verses, and criticisms innumerable, including the series of
"Punch's Natural History of Courtship," illustrated by the pencils of Sir John Gilbert, Newman,
and Gavarni; "Punch's Comic Mythology," "Punch's Information for the People," as well as "Punch's
Valentines," and lively skits like "The Burst Boiler and the Broken Heart," and the verses
in praise of pawnbrokers, "The Uncles of England." After helping the Almanac for 1846, his
Punch connection was interrupted for a period through his being called to Edinburgh to edit
"Chambers's Journal;" but on his return to London two years later he resumed his position in
a modified form. He became secretary to Charles Dickens, who was then editing the "Daily News,"
as well as his assistant editor on "Household Words," and subsequently on "All the Year Round,"
so that little time was left him for humorous composition--though he certainly found leisure
to issue "The Family Joe Miller." When he was in Edinburgh he married Robert Chambers' sister--a
lady possessed of true Scottish wit, some of whose pithy remarks are still remembered, such
as "The ladies who agitate for women's rights are generally men's lefts."

Of the other two writers who aided in the founding of Punch--Postans and George Hodder--there
is little to say. The first-named, indeed, has already been sufficiently dealt with, but it
may be added that his last contribution was his verses--"A Contribution by Cobden"--on the
subject of the removal by Sir Robert Peel of the tax on artificial teeth. Postans saw his chance,
for the Repeal of the Corn Laws was already being agitated, and the tooth-tax troubled his
mouth less than the tax on bread. His final verse ran--

  "Reverse your plan," the Goddess [Commerce] said,
    And smiling stood in all her beauty;
  "Give me untaxed my daily bread,
    And tax my teeth with double duty."

Besides his ambassadorial assistance, and in spite of his presence at the Punch Club, Hodder
was not of much account on the paper, either in its formation or its literary production. He
was, however, related to Punch by marriage, being the husband of Henning's beautiful daughter,
the niece of Kenny Meadows' wife. His last appearances in its pages were in 1843, when four
contributions (including "Punch's Phrenology") came from him; and then he resumed his usual
work of journalist, became Thackeray's secretary for a time, and died through the upsetting
of a coach in Richmond Park.

Passing by Leman Rede and G. H. B. Rodwell (composer, playwright, and ballad writer), neither
of whom, so far as I have been able to ascertain, has left any appreciable trace on Punch,
we come to the man to whom, more than to anyone else, the paper owed the enormous political
influence it once enjoyed, and to whom it is indebted for much of the literary reputation it
still retains--Douglas Jerrold.

If he was not exactly the wit of his day--for his mind lacked the wider sympathy, the greater
grasp, and gentler refinement of Sydney Smith's--he was certainly the most brilliant professional
humorist of his generation--"a wit, if not first, in the very first line." Something of the
bitterness and savagery of Gillray's rampant pleasantry afflicted his vis comica; and when
a happy thought, however unhappy and painful for the hearer, came to the tip of his tongue,
he could no more resist slipping it off than he could wilfully have done him injury.

Mark Lemon used to say, "Punch and I were made for each other." With far more reason could
that notion of reciprocity be applied to Jerrold. No man ever gained so much from the paper
in which he worked. He simply frolicked in its pages, that fitted his talent as accurately
as his genius suited the times in which he lived. It is doubtful whether he would make the
same mark in it were he alive to-day; he would have to seek another publication and another
public, or else adopt an utter change of tone. But in those lively times, when, obeying the
summons addressed to him in Boulogne, he sent his first political paper--beginning characteristically
with the introduction of Peel, in time for the second number--he gave his powers full play.
And his sparkle was the brighter for its setting and its surroundings. His wit was for the
most part caustic and saturnine, and in no other journal could it have so completely identified
itself with the ensemble of tone. Without Punch, Jerrold would certainly not have been so distinguished
a man; yet he somewhere says in one of his works, with a touch of ingratitude: "If you'd pass
for somebody, you must sneer at a play, but idolise Punch"--as though this were the height
of priggishness. He was a keen judge of things, and might have held that view; but it was hardly
for him, of all men, to publish it.

It is not surprising that, with the enormous reputation for wit which he enjoyed, and up to
which he lived with such triumphant ease, all the smarter orphan-jokes of the day were fathered
upon him. But there was a ring about the true Jerroldian humour which the connoisseur could
hardly mistake. And the public soon became good enough judges of it too, studying it regularly
in Punch, and refusing for the most part to be led away to look for it in the other journals
which Jerrold edited, with but indifferent success so far as their circulation went. Although
his fame was already established as a dramatist before Punch was born, I doubt, without Punch,
he would ever have earned the reputation in pure literature which his "Q Papers" helped to found.

It was with these "Q Papers" that he began, and he threw into them some of his strongest and
most withering writing, and oftentimes some of his weakest sense. With his soft heart melting
for the poor, and his fiery hatred of oppression warping his better judgment, he was led into
that unreasoning attack upon property and authority to which Thackeray deprecatingly alludes.
Because the poor are unhappy, according to his philosophy, therefore are the rich, most of
them, their direct oppressors, and ruling bodies, tyrants. Fiercely upright and aggressively
impulsive in his championship of the lowly, he was anything but sound and thorough in his premisses;
and had he the power he might have wielded later, his defects as a political economist would
infallibly have brought about disaster. "His Radicalism," his son has told us, "was that of
a humorist"--that is to say, all his power and all his wit as a writer (and they had few, if
any, equals in the press), all his genius for invective and ridicule, and all his commanding
influence with the public, were directed against Society and the powers that were, simply from
a playful sense of humour! Luckily, the evil, or at least the danger, thus found a corrective
for itself; for although Jerrold's power, and with it Punch's, grew with amazing rapidity among
all classes, his tirades were felt to come more from the humorist's heart than from the statesman's
brain. It is thus easy to draw a comparison between Jerrold and Jean Paul Friedrich Richter,
of whom Carlyle says: "He is a humorist from his inmost soul; he thinks as a humorist, he feels,
imagines, acts as a humorist. Sport is the element in which his nature lives and works....
A Titan in his sport, as in his earnestness, he oversteps all bounds, and riots without law
or measure." The words might almost have been written of Jerrold himself. But, for all that,
he was generally recognised as a leading champion of the people's rights and reformer of their
wrongs; and to this passionate earnestness, to this keen wit and shrewd sincerity of the unconsciously
special pleader, Punch owed most of the early notice he obtained, and much of his influence
in the worlds of politics and Society.

These papers, then, of which the first was "Punch and Peel" (July 24th, 1841), were, in fact,
political leading-articles, satirical, ironical, bitter, and more often demagogic than humorous,
though of wit and humour both there was a generous undercurrent. Punch showed himself at once
a fighting man who meant to be in the thick of the fray, a politician as impulsive as Macaulay;
and though Jerrold did not begin to sign his articles until the ninth week (which has given
grounds to some writers to assert that "Peel Regularly Called In" was the first of his contributions),
he soon succeeded in setting up "Q" as a personality every bit as important and influential
amongst his readers as Punch himself. The Court, the Church, the Political and Social arena,
he included them all in his comprehensive gaze, and not an injustice, a sham, an affectation,
or a blunder--or what he happened to regard as such--but came in for exposure and castigation.
It was fortunate for him and for Punch, no doubt, that he was "a humorist;" for his own blunders
and misjudgments were regarded with the more indulgence for it, or were condoned as the excusable
excesses of a chartered jester running playfully amok. But it must not be imagined that though
a humorist he was not desperately sincere. His own early struggles, his ghastly experience,
as he ever thought it, when as a midshipman in the Navy he saw how authority had to be enforced
by flogging, and witnessed all the revolting horrors of the cockpit during an engagement, had
imparted intense earnestness to his mind; and he focussed all his brilliancy on the opportunity
Punch afforded of tilting at the windmills in the plain. The fact seems to be that Jerrold's
heart, and sometimes his logic and his judgment as well, were a good deal of a woman's; distinguished
by every estimable and admirable quality, but with little statesmanlike perspicuity and moderation.
Such may truly be said of those early "Q Papers," by which, nevertheless, he was able to effect
much, then and thereafter, greatly to the good of the people, yet often wrought some of that
intolerance and injustice which he was too ready to ascribe to others.

It was he, more than anyone else, who forced on Punch that admixture of Radicalism with his
Whiggery which did not wear off for the first years of his life, and which was often enough
preached with that picturesqueness of expression which we nowadays would smile at as "high-falutin."
But the lofty ideas of the writer carried off this fault of style. His creed was simple and
clear: Cant was devilish and Samaritanism godly; to him hypocrisy was the blackest of the vices,
and kindness the sum of all the virtues. It mattered little that that kindness misplaced might
bring a train of evils in its place; sympathy was the one thing wanted; the quinine of stern
justice (except against the great and rich) should ever be watered down with mercy. It was,
in fact, the religion less of the practical politician and true reformer, than of the worthy,
upright, kind-hearted, unthinking Christian. His very fearlessness made men fear him, as his
motives and ability compelled their respect; and the majority, who cared less for political
philosophy than for political fervour, applauded him blindfold, and in due time accorded to
Punch a place in their esteem second only to that enjoyed by the "Times." Of course, "bitterness"
was expected in the satirical papers of that day; and it is not pretended that Jerrold was
ever so unreasonable or so anarchical in the pages of Punch as William Brough revealed himself
in the brilliant attacks on the propertied classes in which he indulged in his Liverpool journal.
He lost, of course, no opportunity of assailing the Duke of Wellington, and Louis Philippe,
and the "Morning Post" (articles in which he attacked the snobs of England before Thackeray
did), and other of Punch's permanent butts; but his chief merit lies in his having set up the
hereditary sins of Society as targets, and shot his barbed darts into them with unerring accuracy
of aim. Of his bitterness it was said that it was "healthy--healthy as bark," just as Thackeray--was
it not?--had previously said of his own writings in "Britannia."

It was not till a year afterwards (1842) that he began his "Punch's Letters to his Son." They
were tender enough, and show little evidence that they were written in weakness and in pain.
His health, indeed, gave him periods of agony of a rheumatic character, pain in his hands so
great that at one time he could not write, and at another his whole racked body practically
paralysed, until a "cure" at Malvern gave him back control of it. On another occasion, but
that was in later years, when he was asked how he was, he replied, "As one that is waiting
and is waited for," and he often wrote, said his son, when the movement of the pen was fierce
pain to him. We may see in this physical torment, perhaps, the mainspring of much of his caustic
humour. Mr. Cooper, R.A., would ascribe to over-indulgence much of Jerrold's suffering. "His
countenance was open and bright (when sober!), and showed nothing of that satirical bitterness
for which he was so eminent.... In accordance with the fashion of the time the man who could
not drink his bottle and remain sober, drank his bottle and got drunk." But the Academician,
like most teetotalers, would often see drunkenness where Jerrold saw merely drink, and probably
knew nothing of the latter's own feelings towards undue indulgence. "Habitual intoxication,"
wrote Jerrold himself, "is the epitome of every crime;" and elsewhere, "The bottle is the devil's
crucible." Yet it must be admitted that he was not averse to what in his day was called "true
conviviality," which, as I have heard it remarked, never yet made a man a drunkard, though
it may sometimes have made him drunk. "If Bacchus often leads men into quagmires deep as his
vats, let us yet do him this justice--he sometimes leads them out. Ask your opponent to take
another glass of wine." And did not Thomas Hood suggest, when he was told that by his love
of wine he was shortening his days, that anyhow he was lengthening his nights?

What may be called the "Jenkins" and the "Pecksniff" papers belong to the same year. The former
were directed against the "Morning Post," which, with other loyal journals, in those days adopted
a tone towards Court and Society hardly in keeping with modern ideas of manly independence,
and of course its politics were to match. Thackeray and à Beckett joined later in the sport.
But Jerrold, while believing in Thackeray's hatred of the snob, more than suspected him of
being a snob himself; and Thackeray felt not less convinced of the hollowness of Jerrold's
"stalwartness." "Thackeray had neither love nor respect for Jerrold's democracy," Vizetelly
tells us. "I remember him mentioning to me his having noticed at the Earl of Carlisle's a presentation
copy of one of Jerrold's books, the inscription in which ran: 'To the Right Honourable the
Earl of Carlisle, K.G., K.C.B., etc. etc.' 'Ah!' said Thackeray, 'this is the sort of style
in which your rigid, uncompromising Radical always toadies the great.'" And yet both men were
honest toady-haters to the core. It was this very hatred of snobbism which inspired Jerrold
with his cutting retort to Samuel Warren, author of "Ten Thousand a Year," who complained that
at some aristocratic house at which he had recently dined he could positively get no fish.
"I suppose," said Jerrold, "they had eaten it all upstairs!"[37]

The "Pecksniff" papers, as already stated, very nearly involved Punch in its first libel action.
The object of its criticism was, of course, Samuel Carter Hall, who, tradition says, was the
origin of Dickens's immortal conception. This creation--the symbol of cant and hypocrisy--was
after Jerrold's own heart, and, thinking less of charity this time than of justice, he smote
the luckless editor of the "Art Journal" hip and thigh, and revelled in his attacks. Hall's
articles on the industrial art of England were supposed to be dictated more by the complacency
and generosity of manufacturers than by the artistic excellence of their wares. Sometimes Jerrold
would use the image of "Pecksniff" for other and more serious purposes than the baiting of
Mr. Hall and his little ways, as when, in 1844, he made this biting onslaught on the Prime
Minister, Sir Robert Peel:

"We have heard that Mr. Charles Dickens is about to apply to the Court of Chancery for an injunction
to prevent Sir Robert Peel continuing any longer to personate, in his character of Premier,
the character of Mr. Pecksniff, as delineated in Martin Chuzzlewit, that character being copyright.
We hope this rumour is unfounded, as the injunction would certainly be refused. Sir Robert
Peel is in a condition to prove that the part in question has been enacted by him for a long
series of years, and was so long before any of Mr. Dickens's works appeared; in short, that
he, Sir Robert Peel, is the original Pecksniff."

The year 1843 was a notable one in Punch's calendar, for in it Jerrold struck that note of
sympathy and tenderness that was almost immediately to culminate in Hood's tragic poem. "The
Story of a Feather" was begun, and was the greatest success the paper had scored up to that
time, with the exception of the first Almanac. Dickens, who watched for it and read it as it
came out, wrote privately to him that it was "a beautiful book," and his verdict was endorsed
by the ever-increasing circle of Punch's readers. "Our Honeymoon" was Jerrold's last series
of the year--a year which drew from him plenty of outside work. He edited Mr. Herbert Ingram's
admirable but short-lived "Illuminated Magazine," and wrote for it the "Chronicles of Clovernook"
and the "Chronicles of a Goosequill." It is astonishing, in looking back at Jerrold's remarkable
work at this period, to think that the public reads his books no more, and prefers to ruin
its literary taste on fifth-rate romances rather than on the virile novels of a recent past.

For a little while nothing of special note, though still a great mass of work, came from Jerrold's
pen, until 1845, when, as prophesied by Hal Baylis (see p. 97), "Mrs. Caudle" burst upon the
town. In common with a few other things achieved by Punch, it created a national furore, and
set the whole country laughing and talking. Other nations soon took up the conversation and
the laughter, and "Mrs. Caudle" passed into the popular mind and took a permanent place in
the language in an incredibly short space of time.

"Some years after I had ceased my connection with Punch," says Landells in one of his autobiographical
papers now in my hands, "I met Douglas Jerrold at the corner of Essex Street in the Strand.
It was the time when the first number of the 'Caudle Curtain Lectures' appeared. In the course
of conversation I remarked that I did not read Punch regularly, but I had by chance perused
the opening chapter of his new subject, and I thought, if he followed up the series in the
spirit he had begun, they would be the most popular that have ever appeared in its pages. He
laughed heartily and replied--'It just shows what stuff the people will swallow. I could write
such rubbish as that by the yard;' and he added, 'I have before said, the public will always
pay to be amused, but they will never pay to be instructed.' The Caudle Lectures did more than
any series of papers for the universal popularity of Punch, and there is no doubt but they
added greatly to Jerrold's reputation, although he always affected not to think so."

The origin of Mrs. Caudle--one of those women interminably loquacious and militantly gloomy
under fancied marital oppression, who (as Jerrold said of another) "wouldn't allow that there
was a bright side to the moon"--was the result of no mental effort. Henry Mayhew's son has
said that the character was evolved from the relations of Mr. and Mrs. Landells; but to anyone
conversant with them the suggestion is palpably absurd. Moreover, Jerrold, himself a good authority,
one would have thought, declared that she was "the result of no thought;" she was merely "wafted
into his brain." The reason of the immediate success of these "Curtain Lectures" was said to
be that every woman in the land recognised in the lecturer a gratifying resemblance to someone
in her own circle. It was primarily, no doubt, the intime character of the papers, rather than
their inherent humour, that tickled the public taste--though at the same time it gave some
offence. A reminiscence of a literary protégée of Jerrold's--Mrs. Newton Crosland--seems to
bear this out. In company with her mother, she was dining at Jerrold's house, when, "towards
the close of the meal, a packet arrived--proofs, I fancy; at any rate, Douglas Jerrold opened
a letter which visibly disturbed him. 'Hark at this,' he said, after a little while; and he
then proceeded to read a really pathetic though not very well expressed letter from an aggrieved
matron, who appealed to him to discontinue or modify the Caudle Lectures. She declared they
were bringing discord into families and making a multitude of women miserable."

But they made a greater multitude of men merry, and Punch proceeded with them--indeed, he continued
so long that his rivals protested loudly, as well they might in their own interests. They published
engravings of handsome sarcophagi, and gave similar unmistakable hints that they considered
the interment of Mrs. Caudle's corpse a long time overdue; while "Joe Miller the Younger" represented
him as "The Modern Paganini playing on One String: 'Caudle--without variations.'" But Jerrold,
who had lately moved from Regent's Park to his house, West Lodge, at Putney Lower Common, continued
there to write Caudle Lectures "by the yard"--alternating the locale, according to Mark Lemon,
with a tavern in Bouverie Street. And he laughed to see how his papers were translated into
nearly every Continental language, and were transferred to the stage both in London and the
provinces. Mrs. Keeley made a life-like Mrs. Caudle at the Lyceum--only perhaps a little too
fresh and charming; the character in the provinces being often undertaken by male impersonators,
such, for example, as Mr. Warren. John Leech executed upon stone a couple of admirable portraits
of the conjugal pair, which were sold, coloured, for a shilling; but they were soon pirated
and hawked about the streets, and the unprincipled conductors of "The Penny Satirist," and
similar abominations, traded largely not only on the identity of the Caudles, but on the words
of Mrs. Caudle herself--so freely that legal steps had to be taken to stop the nuisance. The
latest edition of this jeu d'esprit is that which has been illustrated by Charles Keene, and
it can hardly be doubted that in his drawings he often touches the high-water mark of his artistic
execution.

In due time Douglas Jerrold, as in duty bound, made the amende honorable to the sex he had
maligned. He was invited to take the chair at a great public meeting held at Birmingham in
his honour, when the whole audience rose at him. He was asked to speak without fear, "as there
was no Mrs. Caudle in Birmingham." He responded that he "did not believe that there was a Mrs.
Caudle in the whole world," and the gracefulness of his reference set him at peace with womankind
once more. In point of fact, he was no more pleased, artistically, with the success of Mrs.
Caudle among his books than he was pleased with the position of "Black-eyed Susan" among his
plays, as he was well aware that he had done much better work in both branches. But for Punch's
sake he was delighted. So after the death of Mrs. Caudle, which in decency could no longer
be delayed, Jerrold attempted to carry on the idea by marrying the widower to the lady of whom
his wife had been so jealous; so that Mr. Caudle--his head turned by his new-born liberty--might,
in the "Breakfast Talk" levelled at his second spouse, avenge the oppression he had suffered
from his first. But the experiment, which took place in the Almanac of the following year,
fell flat, and Mr. and Mrs. Caudle, too, dropped out of Mr. Punch's doll-box for good and all.

Then followed, in 1846, "Punch's Complete Letter-writer," which in consequence of the odium
incurred a short time before by Sir James Graham, the Home Secretary,[38] by the opening of
certain letters while they were passing through the post, Jerrold sarcastically dedicated to
the heckled baronet. He did this on the ground that Sir James, having the whole run of the
Post Office and the fingering of all the letters, must therefore possess "a most refined, most
exquisite taste for the graces of epistolary composition," and could thoroughly appreciate
them. This was another version of Hood's lines--

  "A daw's not reckon'd a religious bird
  Because he keeps a-cawing from a steeple,"

and is the pattern on which Mr. Whistler's effort was founded--that the mere company of pictures
can impart no feeling or knowledge of art, else the policeman in the National Gallery must
be the best of critics. But at this time better work of Jerrold's, "St. Giles's and St. James's,"
was appearing in his "Shilling Magazine" (newly started by Bradbury and Evans), as well as
in the "Daily News," under the title of the "Hedgehog Papers;" while "Time Works Wonders" raised
his reputation higher than ever upon the stage.

In the same year appeared the commencement of the series "Mrs. Bibs' Baby"--but it was not
a success, and was entirely thrown into the shade, as it appeared, by Thackeray's first triumph,
the "Snob Papers." The chief charm about "Mrs. Bibs' Baby" is that it was the outcome of Jerrold's
passionate love of children. This delightful trait in Jerrold's character--as in Steele's,
Fielding's, Goldsmith's, and Dickens's--has been common to many of the Punch Staff, as we know
in their lives and have seen in their works. We all know how Thackeray never saw a boy without
wanting to tip him--a practical form of sympathy which found great approval. Leech loved all
children, even the terrible ones, and makes us feel it in his drawings. Mr. du Maurier adores
the nice and the pretty ones, and even has a fatherly sort of pity for the stupid and the ugly.
Mr. Harry Furniss's "Romps" reflects his keen delight in young people, the wilder the better.
Shirley Brooks loved to read the "Jabberwock" to them, and Sir John Tenniel, like his old chief,
Mark Lemon, loved them for their childhood's sake--or he would never have been able to give
us "Alice in Wonderland." Of course, there may be others on the Staff who have no particularly
pronounced feeling in this direction; but Jerrold would often go out of his way to introduce
babies into his serious articles. He speaks somewhere of something "sweeter than the sweetest
baby"--and once said that "children are earthly idols that hold us from the stars." So he began
"Mrs. Bibs' Baby," and felt humiliated and disappointed when the public showed no glimmer of
interest in it, and he was soon induced by his own good sense and the editorial hint to desert
his latest offspring.

Then came "The Female Robinson Crusoe," and the last (modified) success, "Twelve Fireside Saints;"
but outside undertakings were almost monopolising his attention. His "Weekly Newspaper," founded
on the strength of his "Q Papers," had been born and was already dead. His powerful novel "A
Man Made of Money" made his next unqualified success; then in 1850 he became attached to the
"Examiner," and two years later "Lloyd's Weekly Newspaper" brought him an editorship and a
thousand pounds a year--and he knew at last, and for the first time, the meaning of freedom
from care. He became, moreover, independent of the publishers of Punch, to whom he was pecuniarily
indebted, although they had more than once raised his salary (once in order to enable him to
dispense with working for the "Pictorial Times"); but his indebtedness he felt as a tie, which
was none the less irksome that it was a golden fetter which bound him to his friends. Still,
to the end he sent in his satires, couplets, and epigrams--stinging, brilliant, and original--jokes
and sarcasms by the score, but extremely few puns.

Sometimes, reviving the memories of his early trade, he would enter the compositors' room,
and, while waiting for a proof, would seize a "stick," set up some concluding lines or a fresh
paragraph in type, and even make his own corrections in proof, almost driving the "reader"
out of his mind, until he learned how the corrections and additions had been effected.

That Jerrold's wit ran in a higher groove than mere verbal quips and cranks is proved by the
retorts and epigrams that have been preserved and ticketed in cases like a collection of brilliant
butterflies. When one March or April he tumbled backwards into water where, but for the unseasonable
weather, no water ought to have been, he suggested that the accident was "owing to the backward
spring;" reminding us of that similar witticism of Henry Compton's, when fine hot weather followed
suddenly on March snows--"We have jumped from winter to summer without a spring." His reply
was characteristic to the poet Héraud's enquiry as to whether he had seen his "Descent into
Hell" (then newly published)--"I wish to Heaven I had;" together with his well-known retort
to Albert Smith, who, before he left the paper, protested coaxingly against Jerrold's merciless
chaff, adding, "After all, you know, we row in the same boat." "True," answered Jerrold, quick
as thought, "but not with the same skulls."

But he did not always come off scot-free; and, like many a wit whose tongue is feared, he could
be silenced by a well-directed thrust which, for want of practice and experience in defence,
he knew not how to parry. Mr. Charles Williams tells me the story, recounted to him by Thackeray,
of how, when one wet night they were all at a little oyster-shop then facing the Strand Theatre,
the barmaid Jane, thoroughly out of humour at Jerrold's chaff, slapped down before the little
man the liquor he had ordered, with the words, "There's your grog and take care you don't drown
yourself;" with the effect of damping his spirits for the rest of the night. When Alfred Bunn
retaliated with "A Word with Punch,"[39] Jerrold made no reply, to the astonished delight of
the rival press. No man had greater courage than he; but he probably found that he had nothing
more to say, seeing that from week to week for years past he had written against Bunn all he
knew or could think of. And when Shirley Brooks struck at him in "The Man in the Moon" in the
course of a mock election-address beginning--"I hate the humbug of the 'wrongs of the poor
man' class of writing when any sneaking rascal is found poaching and punished for it"--Jerrold
held his peace, and in due time voted to have the damaging assailant invited to join Punch's
Staff. Mrs. Landells, without straining their friendship, called him "the little wasp" to his
face; but, as Leigh Hunt more justly said, if he had the sting of the bee, he also had the
honey. When Jerrold said in his wife's presence that a man ought to be able to change a spouse
like a bank-note--change one of forty for two of twenty--he indulged in kindly chaff which
she well understood and could appreciate; and when, on the occasion of a party at their house,
he replied to a question as to who was dancing with his wife, "Oh, a member of the Humane Society,
I suppose," she had no objection to Leech making it into a picture for Punch's pages. When
Jerrold said anything witty he would always laugh frankly and unreservedly at it, and, like
Dickens, he would burst out laughing as he wrote, when he struck upon a comic idea for Punch.

The report that Mark Lemon said of Douglas Jerrold that "he was doubtless considered caustic
because he blackened every character he touched" is probably apocryphal--though Jerrold's occasional
treatment of Lemon might perhaps have justified some sort of retaliation from his genial Editor.
Still, it was Jerrold's firm belief, as he declared to Mr. Sidney Cooper, R.A., that he had
never in his life said or written a bitter thing of anyone who did not deserve it. But when
he was on his death-bed, the day before he died, he sent a last affectionate message to his
old comrades at the Table: "Tell the dear boys that if I've ever wounded any of them, I've
always loved them." Horace Mayhew was with him when he passed away, and thence from the bedside
brought the dead man's love to them as a token to wipe out the sting of words which, if they
had not been forgotten, had been forgiven long ago.

After 1848 Jerrold wrote less and less for Punch; but until 1857, the year of his death, he
faithfully attended at the Table, and exerted himself in Punch's behalf. And when he died--the
greatest blow Punch had hitherto suffered by death (for Dr. Maginn was never on the Staff)--Henry
Mayhew (his son-in-law), Thackeray, Horace Mayhew, Mark Lemon, and W. Bradbury were his pall-bearers,
and Leech, Shirley Brooks, Tom Taylor, John Oxenford, Percival Leigh, James Hannay, Landells,
Kenny Meadows, Albert Smith, and John Tenniel attended at his graveside. Dickens took a prominent
part in raising a fund for the benefit of the widow, and with Thackeray and Dr. W. H. (now
Sir William) Russell gave readings, while Dickens' Amateurs made a public appearance, and T.
P. Cooke returned to the stage for the occasion--with a result amounting to £2,000. Tom Taylor's
feeling address, which was spoken at the Adelphi Theatre by Albert Smith, between whom and
Jerrold a kindlier feeling had latterly sprung up, concluded thus:--

                                  "... If one joy
  From earth can reach souls freed from earth's alloy,
  'Tis sure the joy to know kind hands are here
  Drying the widow's and the orphan's tear;
  Helping them gently o'er lone life's rough ways,
  Sending what light may be to darkling days--
  A better service than to hang with verse,
  As our forefathers did, the poet's hearse.

  Two things our Jerrold left, by death removed--
  The works he wrought: the family he loved.
  The first to-night you honour; honouring these,
  You lend your aid to give the others ease."

FOOTNOTES:

[37] Dr. Strauss's attribution of this repartee to Robert Brough in reproof of James Hannay
appears to be quite without foundation.

[38] See p. 113 et seq.

[39] See p. 227 et seq.

How Percival Leigh (otherwise called "Paul Prendergast" in those early days) was sought out
by George Hodder, on the strength of the "Comic Latin Grammar," and how, after a judicious
pause, he joined the Staff of Punch, has already been made known. He was twenty-four when,
in 1835, he took his M.R.C.S. He had been a medical student of "Bart's," but had already abandoned,
in great measure, the lancet for the pen. He sent in as his first contribution the article
to accompany Leech's "Foreign Affairs;" and though he became best known as a humorist, as a
doctor he was in his early days equally to be respected. Mr. Arthur à Beckett tells the following
stories of his powers in the direction of diagnosis and surgery:--

     Although he had given up practice for a number of years, he was an
     excellent doctor. Sir James Paget has told me that when he and "the
     Professor" [Leigh's nickname at the Table] were fellow-students at
     "Bart's," the latter was considered quite the best man of his year.
     He was admirable at diagnosis, and I shall never forget one of his
     prognostications. He was in the company of a number of
     littérateurs and artists who were dining together. A well-known
     dramatist was expected, and did not turn up to time. The absentee
     was allowed ten minutes' grace, and then dinner was commenced
     without him. After a while he came in full of apologies. He had
     missed one train (he lived in the suburbs), and would have missed
     another had he not run for it. And then he laughingly explained to
     "the Professor" that he thought he had sprained his leg. Percival
     Leigh, who had been looking at him with keen attention since his
     entrance, asked him a couple of questions; and having received
     replies to them, spoke as follows: "My dear fellow, if you will
     take my advice, you will go home at once in a cab and get to bed.
     Send for your doctor and make him overhaul you. But call special
     attention to the sprain." The dramatist, who was one of "the
     Professor's" oldest friends, obeyed orders and departed. Then the
     rest of the company twitted the doctor on the clever ruse "of
     getting rid of one who deserved to be punished for keeping the soup
     waiting." Of course, it was only chaff, but "the Professor" took it
     seriously. "No, my boys," he replied, very gravely, "I did not send
     him away on our account, but in his own interest. Of course, while
     there is life there is hope; but, unless I am very greatly
     mistaken, we shall never see him again." And "the Professor" was
     right. Within a month the dramatist had joined the silent majority.

     The second story about my dear old friend is not so grim as its
     predecessor.

     Mr. Percival Leigh, when he was more than seventy years old, was
     knocked down by a passing vehicle as he was crossing the road. He
     was immediately picked up by a policeman and conveyed in a cab to
     the nearest hospital. "The Professor," who was covered in mud,
     asked to be taken home, but the constable would not listen to him.
     So he was carried into the accident ward. After a while he was seen
     by the house-surgeon and his assistant. The two medicos entirely
     ignored "the Professor," and gave their exclusive attention to his
     leg. "I think you are wrong," said Mr. Leigh, in a mild tone of
     voice, after he had listened to their conversation for a few
     moments. The doctors paid not the slightest attention to the
     observation, and continued their investigations. Now "the
     Professor" was the most mild and kindly of gentlemen--courteous to
     a degree, and as polished as a traditional Frenchman--but when he
     was roused he was--well, emphatically roused. He attempted a second
     remonstrance, but with the same result. The two medicos calmly
     ignored him. "Drop that leg, you confounded blockheads!" he
     thundered out suddenly. "Can't you see, you idiots, that I have
     fractured my ----," and then he supplied a highly technical and
     scientific description of his accident. The two medicos stared at
     "the Professor" in blank astonishment. Then "the Professor"
     abandoned his incognito, and gave his name and quality. "You see,
     gentlemen," he said, resuming his customary courteous tone, "I
     venture to believe that I know more about my leg than you do. It
     has been under my personal observation all my life, and I
     consequently have given more time to studying its constitution and
     idiosyncracies than you, naturally (with all your numerous
     engagements), could afford to devote to such a purpose!"

Leigh had a philosopher's head and a fine face. In later life he was extremely careless in
his person--so much so that when he died Mr. Bradbury, with his usual thoughtfulness, went
to the funeral with a cheque-book in his pocket, intending, if necessary, to pay the undertaker's
expenses. His surprise, therefore, was great when he learned that "the Professor" had died
worth from ten to eleven thousand pounds. Leigh, who lived for some years in Hammersmith Road,
in a house which, judged from its exterior, promised little comfort within, was a profound
Shakespearean and a good classical scholar, and from these attainments he earned the sobriquet
by which he was known. He vied with Jerrold himself in his knowledge of the Bard, and was fond
of spouting the poets, classic and English, with the least possible excuse, breaking out into
verse with a loud voice, utterly oblivious of his companions. It was he who introduced into
the pages of Punch the assumption of scholarship in its readers, and so acquired at once for
the paper a position never held by any other humorous journal in this country. His work, which
for many years averaged a column and a half each week, included nearly every sort of contribution
known to Punch, including, in 1845, his striking "Pauper Song"--the wail of the poor man who
prefers the prison to the workhouse, the second stanza running thus:--

  "There shall I get the larger crust,
    The warmer house-room there;
  And choose a prison since I must,
    I'll choose it for its fare.
  The Dog will snatch the biggest bone,
    So much the wiser he:
  Call me a Dog;--the name I'll own:--
    The gaol--the gaol for me."

In 1843 Leigh began his effectively satirical "Punch's Labours of Hercules," and in 1849 "Mr.
Pipps's Diary" appeared as the text accompanying Doyle's pictures of "Ye Manners and Customs
of ye Englyshe." The extraordinary success of this admirable parody was, perhaps, the greatest
he ever won, though he achieved many. He was essentially a "safe man" at his work, and for
that reason he would act as locum tenens to Shirley Brooks when that Editor was away; and the
only occasions on which he failed (so far as I can ascertain) except towards the end, was in
May, 1847, when his wife died, and in April of the following year, when he lost his father.
He always had a strong feeling for art, both in subject and treatment, and was always very
fastidious about his work; he would touch up a poem over and over again, and take the utmost
pains with metre and "swing" until he was satisfied.

But as he grew old it became evident that the "Professor" was beyond his work, and although
he attended the Table with the utmost regularity up to the very end, the decay of nature robbed
him of his value as a member of the Staff. Then came an example of the kindliness of spirit
that has animated for so long the little côterie of humorists of Bouverie Street and the generosity
of the men for whom they work. For a long while before his death "the Professor's" copy had
been practically useless to the Editor; yet everything was done to spare him the pain of rejection.
At first Mr. Burnand or Mr. Arthur à Beckett would rewrite the paragraphs; and Leigh's delight
when they were printed was sad to see. But soon it was impossible to conceal the fact that
they were utterly useless; and so for some years it was the practice to set his "copy" up in
type and to send him proofs, which he duly corrected and returned. But they never appeared
in the paper, nor was ever question asked nor explanation offered. Did the old gentleman forget
all about them? Or was he hoping against hope that some day room might again be found for him
in the pages to which he had contributed with so much applause? Or did he appreciate the real
motive and kindly feeling of the proprietors, who, though they could not use his work, actually
increased his salary? Whatever the cause, "the Professor" to the last maintained a pathetic
silence. He died at Oak Cottage, King Street, Hammersmith, on October 24th, 1889, and was laid
to rest in the Hammersmith Cemetery in the presence of a circle of old Punch friends. For one
thing, at least, he had laid the paper under a deep debt of gratitude--he had introduced to
it his hospital chum and life-long friend, John Leech, and that was a service which could never
be forgotten.

The third of the medical trio was Albert Smith, a writer who was not fortunate in making a
good impression on the majority of his associates. With Leech, with whom he had shared rooms
in his "sawbones days," he remained a steadfast friend; but it is probable that that friendship
was maintained by the artist by reason of the other's good nature, and in spite of his manner.
Henry Vizetelly, who evidently bore him no particular goodwill, wrote to me his recollections
of the man in these words: "He was not the amiable person depicted by Yates in his 'Recollections.'
He was vulgar and bumptious in manner until he became polished by concerting with 'swells'
after the success of his entertainments. He always had a keen eye for the main chance, and
never neglected an opportunity for self-advertisement. Jerrold and Thackeray detested him,
though only Jerrold showed this openly--which he occasionally did to Smith's face, in the most
offensive manner. Albert Smith retained his position on Punch for some time after Jerrold's
animosity had declared itself--first, because his copy was always certain; and secondly, because
he and Leech were great friends, and Leech was then a power--though not in the same degree
as Jerrold, who was almost absolute." These strictures are repeated in Vizetelly's autobiography.
Smith's "Physiologies," he says, which were some of them enlarged from the Punch sketches,
brought him great popular favour, in spite of their slight intrinsic worth. Thackeray was invited
by Vizetelly to produce similar sketches at a hundred pounds apiece--which was double the amount
he was then receiving for the monthly parts of "Vanity Fair;" but he declined to do anything
"in the Albert Smith line," and he similarly refused to write for "Gavarni in London," of which
Smith was editor. "Pigmy as Jerrold physically was, Albert Smith quailed before him;" for Jerrold's
stinging attacks and repartees were merciless. So Smith bought a toy-whip, which he playfully
produced to his friends with the explanation that he intended to apply it to "Master Jerrold;"
but he was never known to bring it out in his tormentor's presence. Jerrold's "skull" witticism
has already been recorded; and of the same kind was his loud enquiry over the Punch dinner-table--when
Smith's obtrusive foible of calling his acquaintances by their abbreviated Christian names
became intolerable--"I say, Leech, how long is it necessary for a man to know you before he
can call you 'Jack'?" When Jerrold first saw Smith's initials, he had said that he believed
they were "only two-thirds of the truth"--and he continued to act upon the assumption until
Smith left Punch and had become a successful "Entertainer." Then a truce was called, for his
Mont Blanc ascent and the "Entertainment" he made out of it (of which Leech himself said, "It's
only bad John Parry") had made of Smith one of the lions of the day, and of his St. Bernard,
which had accompanied him, the most petted beast in the metropolis. But to the end he remained,
generally speaking, the best-abused humorist of his day. He did not even succeed in escaping
the quiet scorn of his occasional companion, Dickens, whose literary style it was reported
he was trying to copy. The novelist, who much enjoyed Albert's sobriquet of "Lord Smith," simply
shrugged his shoulders as he replied--"We all have our Smiths." It is believed by those who
should know best that the cause of the final rupture between Smith and Punch was the discovery
that some of his articles were simply adaptations from the French; and this belief is still
current in the Punch office.

Smith's connection with Punch was through his engagement for the "Cosmorama," on which Landells
and Last committed infanticide at the starting of Punch. He sent his first paper from his temporary
rooms at Chertsey; it was the burlesque, "Transactions and Yearly Report of the Hookham-cum-Snivey
Literary, Scientific, and Mechanics' Institute" (12th September, 1841). This was succeeded
in the following month, with the opening of his "Physiology of a London Medical Student," which
was rather laughable in itself, while displaying a wonderful intimacy with the rough and noisy
world with which it dealt. The idea, however, had already been sketched by Percival Leigh in
"The Heads of the People." Smith was now living at 14, Percy Street, Tottenham Court Road,
in an unpalatial lodging, where he nominally carried on the profession of surgeon-dentist;
but his best energies were thrown into his literary work, and there is no doubt that that work
was to the taste of the Punch readers. Mr. Walton Henning has told me how his father, A. S.
Henning, calling upon Smith concerning his work, found him like a typical Bob Sawyer, with
his heels upon the table, playing the cornet as a grand finale to his breakfast. Then he would
don his French workman's blouse and scribble for dear life. The "Physiology of London Evening
Parties," which was originally written by him in 1839 for the "Literary World," was illustrated
by Newman, who was still a far more important man on Punch than Leech; and the series was followed
by "Curiosities of Medical Experiences," the less successful "Side-scenes of Everyday Society,"
and "Physiology of a London Idler"--which, taken together, were voted the most entertaining
descriptions of social life that Punch was publishing, even at a time when Punch was declared
to be vastly entertaining. Verse, epigram, jokelets, and articles on current events came from
Albert Smith's pen before the strained relations between the parties and the irresistible hostility
of Jerrold bore him down, though it is probable that the practical joke on him described among
the proceedings of the Punch Club had some part in bringing matters to a head; and on January
7th, 1844, his last contribution appeared--"Important and Telegraphic." Punch, in reply to
a criticism of the "Boston Atlas," declared that Smith left in December, 1843; but Albert Smith
himself wrote (November 20th, 1845) to Mr. James Silk Buckingham (who was protesting to him
against Punch's attacks): "I have not written or suggested anything for Punch since January,
1844.... I withdrew in consequence of being unable to agree with Mr. Mark Lemon, the editor.
Indeed, I have been attacked since then through my novel of 'The Marchioness of Brinvilliers'
both in Punch and in 'Jerrold's Magazine,' for which I do not care a straw."

It was after his retirement from Punch that, in conjunction with A. B. Reach, he started "The
Man in the Moon," with the express purpose of making himself obnoxious to Punch in general
and Jerrold in particular, in which laudable desire he in part, at least, succeeded; while
at the same time he turned his attention to the publishers by bringing out a little Christmas
volume entitled "A Bowl of Punch." But in time all bitterness disappeared; Albert the Great,
as Smith was called, had "discovered" Mont Blanc and Chamonix, and peace prevailed, though
to the end Smith had no further access to Punch's pages.

The last regular contributor of the year 1841 whose name has been preserved is H. A. Kennedy,
whose parodies of Horace were as good as anything Leigh ever did of the kind. The parody of
Horace's "Donec gratus" is worth preserving, and that (p. 20, Volume II.) of "Ad Lydiam"--becomingly
rendered into a tender ode "To Judy"--is hardly less excellent.

Dr. Maginn's connection with Punch began with the first Almanac, while he was, with James Hannay,
in residence in the "Fleet." The doctor, as one of the most versatile writers of the day, was
looked upon by the "Punchites" as useful for their purpose as he was for any of the rival papers
with which he was connected. "He would write a leader for the 'Standard' one evening," it is
said in J. F. Clarke's "Auto-biographical Recollections," "answer it in the 'True Sun' the
following day, and abuse both in the 'John Bull' on the ensuing Sunday." Such a man could not
be without a sense of humour, especially with ample gin and water to enrich it and poverty
to point it. He was the brilliant Morgan O'Doherty of "Fraser" and "Blackwood," and was nearly,
but not quite, "Captain Shandon" in "Pendennis." Thackeray had an affectionate admiration for
his talents. But the times and the doctor were out of gear; he lost sympathy through his persecution
of "L.E.L.," and his misfortunes led him to follow a class of journalism out of all consonance
with his powers and better feeling; he is credited with having been the forerunner of scurrilous
society-journalism. But no hint of these defects is apparent in his work for Punch, in which,
perhaps, he saw an opportunity for some degree of re-instatement; and he conveyed his gratitude
in a five-stanza poem in praise of the paper (p. 131, Vol. II.), "Verses by a Bard--Much be-rhymed
in Punch." But he was near his end; and when he died a year afterwards, Punch devoted to him
the first of his little black-bordered obituaries.

The year 1842 was the stormiest and most threatening in Punch's history; so that, with an empty
till and growing liabilities, there was no disposition towards introducing new contributors
involving the principle of "cash down." Only three names belong to this year, but all were
men of great importance, each in his own line--John Oxenford, W. M. Thackeray, and Horace Mayhew.
In common with Coyne, Oxenford had a stronger sympathy for the stage than for periodical literature,
so that after the tenth volume he ceased to be even an occasional contributor. His first paper
was "Herr Döbler and the Candle Counter." The popular conjurer had advertised that to begin
his performance and illumine his stage he would light two hundred candles by a single pistol-shot.
(This was in the very early days of practical electricity.) The "Times" had reported the entertainment,
but complained that, having counted the number of candles, they found there were only eighty-seven!--whereupon
Oxenford executed a literary dance upon the "Times" reporter. Thenceforward, he contributed
with some degree of regularity. After his "Christmas Game" (January 6th, 1844) he was, on the
3rd of the following year, accounted upon the regular Staff, although from that time he did
but little. Verse, clever and bright, burlesque, and the like, in the true spirit of Punch,
came from time to time; but there was not enough of his work to place him in rank with the
chief of the contributors. "There is one," Mr. Jabez Hogg reminds me, "whose name is rarely
mentioned in connection with the early days of Punch and the 'Illustrated London News.' I refer
to John Oxenford. He did much good work in his day, and his contributions to Punch assisted
greatly to increase its reputation. He was a wit of the first water."

The same number that introduced John Oxenford to the Punch reader presented also William Makepeace
Thackeray--a connection that did not immediately attract public notice, perhaps, though it
soon bore the richest fruit for both author and publisher.

It was about seven years after the first abortive attempt to found a "London Charivari" that
Thackeray--who had been one of the band--commenced that connection with Punch which was to
be of equal advantage both to him and the paper. "It was a good day for himself, the journal,
and the world," said Shirley Brooks, "when Thackeray found Punch. At first," continues his
biographer, "I should gather that he had doubts as to the advisability of joining in the new
and, so far, not very promising venture;" and on the 22nd of May, 1842, we find Fitzgerald
uttering a warning note, and writing to a common friend: "Tell Thackeray not to go to Punch
yet." But his friend paid little heed to the counsel, for within a month appeared what I am
satisfied is Thackeray's first contribution to Punch--"The Legend of Jawbrahim-Heraudee" (p.
254, first volume for 1842) with a sketch undoubtedly by his hand; and at the beginning of
the very next volume, a fortnight later, was begun the series entitled "Miss Tickletoby's Lectures
on English History." These, continued for a time, made no sort of hit, and in due course they
were discontinued; but there seems to have been in them, and especially in the sketches, the
germ of the idea, so perfectly worked out a little later by Gilbert à Beckett and Leech--though
not for Punch: "The Comic History of England" and "The Comic History of Rome."

When Thackeray joined the Punch circle--or, rather, when he first wrote for it, for he was
not on the Staff for some little time--he entered, with the credentials of "Fraser" and the
"Irish Sketch Book," into a company of which several members were already his friends, who,
knowing him as a humorist with both pen and pencil, were glad to secure so useful a man as
contributor. "Very early in the work," writes Landells in his private papers, which lie before
me, "Mr. Mayhew was desirous to secure his co-operation, and it was rather singular that the
first paper which the great man contributed to Punch was rejected as unsuitable."

This was hardly correct: it would be more accurate to say that the first extended series was
suddenly cut short. The circumstances of the extinction of Miss Tickletoby are shown in the
following letter by Thackeray, which has been placed at my disposal by Messrs. Bradbury and
Agnew:--

                                             Halverstown, Kildare,
                                                   Sept. 27, 1842.
GENTLEMEN,

Your letter, containing an enclosure of £25, has been forwarded to me, and I am obliged to
you for the remittance. Mr. Lemon has previously written to me to explain the delay, and I
had also received a letter from Mr. Landells, who told me, what I was sorry to learn, that
you were dissatisfied with my contributions to "Punch." I wish that my writings had the good
fortune to please everyone; but all I can do, however, is to do my best, which has been done
in this case, just as much as if I had been writing for any more dignified periodical.

But I have no wish to continue the original agreement made between us, as it is dissatisfactory
to you and, possibly, injurious to your work; and shall gladly cease Mrs. [sic] Tickletoby's
Lectures, hoping that you will be able to supply her place with some more amusing and lively
correspondent.

I shall pass the winter either in Paris or in London where, very probably, I may find some
other matter more suitable to the paper, in which case I shall make another attempt upon "Punch."--Meanwhile,
gentlemen, I remain, your very obedient Servant,

W. M. THACKERAY.

Gradually, however, and by sure degrees, Thackeray fell into the spirit of the paper, and became
known to the general public first as a "Punch man," and then as "the Punch man," and for some
time recognised by that, rather than by his work in other directions. He became more and more
highly appreciated as one of those who contributed to that speciality of humour for which Punch
had already established a reputation while creating a demand. All the while, during the first
ten years, he regarded the paper as a sort of stepping-stone to an independent literary position;
and he was not very long in using his opportunity for making a reputation equal to that of
Jerrold himself--but a literary, and in no sense a political one. Jerrold, whose influence
was political quite as much as literary and dramatic, undoubtedly did a good deal of unconscious
service in spurring Thackeray with the spirit of emulation. It has already been pointed out
how little love was lost between the two men at the weekly Dinner, and how Jerrold sped his
galling little shafts of clever personalities at Carlyle's "half-monstrous Cornish giant;"
how, in short, they were, and remained to the end, the friendliest and most amiable of enemies.

Vizetelly has recorded how Thackeray would tear the postal-wrapper nervously from the newly-delivered
Punch in order to "see what Master Douglas has to say this week"--(there is a world of dislike
and scorn in that courtesy-title of "Master")--and how, when he gave a lunch in honour of the
French humorous draughtsman "Cham," he invited "Big" Higgins, Tom Taylor, Richard Doyle, and
Leech, all Punch men, to meet him, but neither Mark Lemon nor Jerrold, for "Young Douglas,
if asked, would most likely not come; but if he did, he'd take especial care that his own effulgence
should obscure all lesser lights." It was not Arcedeckne, I am assured by Mr. Cuthbert Bradley
("Cuthbert Bede's" son), but Jerrold, who, in Mark Lemon's hearing, crushingly criticised Thackeray's
first public reading to the lecturer's face, with the laconic remark, "Wants a piano!" Thackeray,
as we all know, was free enough himself in his criticisms of his own features, and his many
sketches of his dear old broken nose are familiar enough to every lover of the man. Yet he
was not best pleased when he entered the Punch dining-room a little late, apologising for his
unpunctuality through having been detained at a christening, at which he had stood sponsor
to his friend's boy, to be met with Jerrold's pungent exclamation--"Good Lord, Thackeray! I
hope you didn't present the child with your own mug!" And still less was he flattered when
he heard that, on its being reported in the Punch office that he was "turning Roman," simply
because he defended Doyle's secession, Jerrold tartly remarked that "he'd best begin with his
nose." (Jerrold, by the way, uses the same conceit in a letter to Sir Charles Dilke when repeating
a rumour of the attempted conversion of the novelist by "Lady ----.") These and many more sardonic
thrusts would amply account for Thackeray's dislike; yet that the men's relations were not
half so disagreeable as has generally been believed is shown by the fact of Thackeray coming
up specially to town from his lecturing tour in order to support Jerrold on the night of his
election at the Reform Club, and delightedly exclaiming, when the result was known--"We've
got the little man in!" Nor would he, perhaps, have shown himself and Jerrold, in the accompanying
cut, listening in fraternal shame-facedness and disgust to a fellow-passenger declaiming against
the wickedness and profanity of Punch.

From the beginning, one of Thackeray's strong points on the Staff was that he was a "pen-and-pencil
man," that he worked indifferently as artist or as writer, and not only as a writer, but as
a prose-and-poem man. It has been said, with authority, that Thackeray never illustrated any
articles but his own; but that is wholly incorrect. If you open Volume VIII., at p. 266, you
will find a drawing of his showing Jack Tar and his Poll waltzing an accompaniment to an article
on the "Debate on the Navy," which was written by Gilbert à Beckett. To the same writer's chapter
on "The Footman," in his series of "Punch's Guide to Servants" (p. 40, Volume IX.), is a characteristic
illustration by Thackeray, and again on the following page to "The Gomersal Museum." A little
farther on, on p. 56, is a clever cut of a lovers' tête-à-tête beside a tea-table, to accompany
Percival Leigh's ballad of "The Lowly Bard to his Lady Love;" and many similar results will
reward a more extended search.

Thackeray's own opinion of his powers as a draughtsman is not easy to determine. We know, of
course, from his own lips, his (? affected) surprise at Dickens not finding his art good enough
to illustrate "Pickwick" vice Seymour, deceased. But in the interval between this application
in 1836 and his later work he probably came to a more critical estimate of the real value of
his draughtsmanship--that work which had been so laboriously and earnestly evolved from his
studies in the Louvre and elsewhere. When Vizetelly was engraving Thackeray's designs to "Mrs.
Perkin's Ball," which on account of their unsophisticated artistic character, were re-touched
by a clever young draughtsman, the artist wrote that there was a "je ne sais quoi" in his "vile
drawing" which was worth retaining. "Somehow," he said, "I prefer my Nuremberg dolls to Mr.
Thwaites's superfine wax models." After Edmund Yates had started that brilliant little journal
or magazine, which was not destined, however, to live as long as it deserved, Thackeray wrote
to him: "You have a new artist on 'The Train,' I see, my dear Yates. I have been looking at
his work, and I have solved a problem. I find there is a man alive who draws worse than myself!"
Yet he continued to draw for Punch with zeal; but when an acquaintance told him, probably in
all sincerity, "but you can draw," Thackeray brusquely put down the compliment to the toadyism
of a "snob." Trollope declares that Thackeray "never learned to draw--perhaps, never could
have learned;" but he did not see that in the art of illustration, especially of a humorous
character, there is something more important than academic correctness and technical mastery.
He moved his pencil slowly, with a deliberate broad touch, without haste, and with no more
attempt at refinement than was natural to him. Yet his hand was capable of astonishing delicacy
of touch; and I have seen the Lord's Prayer written by him one day at the Punch Table, within
the space of a threepenny-piece, which is a marvel of legibility. There is a character about
Thackeray's work--his "je ne sais quoi"--that makes us forgive him his glaring faults--indeed,
we almost come to love him for them--when once we have frankly recognised that it was in great
measure his facility in drawing that was his artistic ruin. There is always something of the
caricaturist in his most serious and important sketches--most of all, perhaps, in his etchings.
It is in his smallest cuts that he is seen to the best advantage, and in them he occasionally
challenges comparison with Doyle and Leech himself.

In the execution of his Punch sketches, in nearly all the three hundred and eighty of them,
Thackeray was as summary as in the turning of a ballad, and I describe elsewhere how he would
make a drawing on the wood while the engraver waited and chatted over a cigar. It was clearly
not his opinion that, as is nowadays adjudged to be the proper course, elaborate studies should
first be made from the life-model, even for the execution of a simple Punch picture. He preferred,
when possible, to confine his pencil to the illustration of his own text; but on occasion he
would produce a "social" cut--a drawing, that is to say, with a joke printed beneath. Sometimes
it would be in the manner of Leech, as in the joke in Volume IX. (p. 3) called "The Ascot Cup
Day," wherein a hot-potato-seller asks a small boy with a broom, "Why are you on the crossing,
James? Is your father Hill?" and is informed "No. He's drove mother down to Hascot." More personal
was such work as "The Stags, a Drama of To-day," in which a retired thimblerigger and an unfortunate
costermonger, under a magnificent alias, take advantage of the railway mania to make their
application for shares--for which they could not pay, of course, if things went wrong--in accordance
with the game of "heads I win, tails I vanish," at that time extensively played throughout
the country. Later on (in Volume XV.), following "The Heavies," he gave, in seven scenes, a
panorama of an "Author's Miseries." In 1847 (Volume XII., p. 59) Thackeray contributed a "social"
picture which is to this day a wonder to all beholders. It is entitled "Horrid Tragedy in Private
Life," and represents a room in which two ladies, or a lady and a servant, are in a state of
the greatest alarm. What the meaning of it all is there is nothing whatever to indicate (unless
it be that something has fallen on the taller lady's dress); and on its appearance the "Man
in the Moon" offered a reward of £500 and a free pardon to anyone who would publish an explanation.
The reward was never claimed; and Thackeray's contribution remains one of Punch's Prize Puzzles,
unsolved, and, apparently, unsolvable.

It was in No. 137--that notable part which contained "The Song of the Shirt"--that Thackeray
appeared in his own right, as belonging not only to the Staff, but to the Table. The contribution
was a "Singular Letter from the Regent of Spain;" and with it Thackeray took his place at the
Dinner as an excellent substitute for Albert Smith. That writer, who had found his successor
"a very jolly fellow with no High Art about him," and a charming companion at "the Cider Cellars,"
a month later disappeared for ever from Punch as a contributor, refiguring only in its pages
from time to time as an object of attack.

Thackeray's work on Punch covered every corner of Punch's field. Burlesques of history and
parodies of literature, ballads and songs, stories and jokes, papers and paragraphs, pleasantry
and pathos, criticisms and conundrums, travels in the East and raillery in the West, political
skits and social satire--from a column to a single line--such was the sum of Thackeray's contribution
to Punch. Less prolific than either Jerrold or Gilbert à Beckett, he produced, nevertheless,
an enormous amount of "copy" that was always readable, even when it was not his best. What
a jaunty, offhand, satiric rogue I am, to be sure--and a gay young dog!" But he did not think
his work half so uninteresting as he pretended; he even regarded with satisfaction that which
he produced when greatly out of the vein. "It is but a hasty letter I send you, my dear lady,"
he wrote to the same correspondent, in 1850, "but my hand is weary with writing 'Pendennis'--and
my head boiling up with some nonsense that I must do after dinner for Punch. Isn't it strange
that, in the midst of all the selfishness, that of doing one's business is the strongest of
all. What funny songs I've written when fit to hang myself!"

His first contributions to Punch, after those already mentioned, were "Mr. Spec's Remonstrance,"
Volume IV., p. 70 (omitting "Assumption of Aristocracy," which has hitherto been credited to
him, but was really sent in by Gilbert à Beckett), "Singular Letter from the Regent of Spain,"
with the three amusing cuts of sailors who, having found a bottle at sea, speculate as to its
contents as they open it--"Sherry, perhaps," "Rum, I hope!" "Tracts, by Jove!!" Then, to select
the chief and longest series, came "The History of the Next French Revolution," in nine parts
(Volume VI.), contributions which were leavened by pleasant attacks levelled at Lytton, and
at "Jenkins" of the "Morning Post." Then followed, in Volumes VII. and VIII., "Travelling Notes,
by our Fat Contributor" (for Thackeray loved to call himself so, or "Our Stout Commissioner,"
or "Titmarsh," "Policeman X," "Jeames," "Paul Pindar," or other whimsical pseudonym), and "Punch
in the East"--the record of a journey undertaken by Thackeray at the invitation of the P. and
O. Company, who offered him a free passage to Egypt.

At this time the railway mania was at its height, and Thackeray took his share in Punch in
stemming the fatal tide, so far as ridicule could be used to do so. One of his first papers
on the subject was the "Letter from Jeames, of Buckly Square," signed by "Fitz-Jeames de la
Pluche"--the famous Jeames who, first created by Thackeray in the pages of "The Britannia"
in 1841, under the title of "Mr. Yellowplush, my lord's body-servant," began in the same Vol.
IX. (1845) his immortal "Diary." One of the successes of this epistle was what, to Thackeray's
delight, was seriously complained of as the "deplorable" inaccurate orthography of the illiterate
flunkey. Thackeray was certainly not the first to use the device, but he was the first to achieve
great success with it, and Arthur Sketchley, Artemus Ward, Mr. Deputy Bedford ("Robert"), and
all the American humorists who have adopted the same idea, are but followers where the great
Titmarsh led. Jeames's weakness became a strength in Thackeray's hands, and at one time was
turned with effect upon Sir Isaac Pitman's "Spelling Reform," which was then a novel butt for
the satirist. The incident has been thus gravely recorded in the pages of the "Phonetic Journal":--

     "Ten years ago Mr. Punch had meni a meri kakinashon at the ekspens
     ov Mr. Pitman and the 'Phonetic News,' which he leiked tu kall the
     'Fanatic Nuz.' Here is wun of his sneerz:--'Voltaire sed ov the
     Inglish that they save two ourz a day bei kontrakting all their
     wurdz. The "Fonetic Nuz" woz not then in eksistens. If we save two
     ourz,' kontiniuz the kaustik pupet, 'in the dayz ov Voltaire, we
     must save siks ourz at least nou that we hav our improved plan ov
     speling, az originali invented bei Winifred Jenkins, and karid to
     its greatest heit bei Jeames, with the assistans ov Yellowplush and
     Pitman.' But Punch, who, leik the 'Thunderer,' never goez agenst
     publik opinion, sneerz no longer at the Speling Reform moovment,
     and sensibel men, who ar not fonetik men at all, admit at last that
     our prezent sistem ov orthografi is bei no meanz perfekt."

There is little wonder that Thackeray seized on the comic side of this movement, for whimsical
spelling always delighted him. On one occasion, indeed, he was so proud of an uncompromising
cold that had "sat down" in his head that he wrote to a friend in these terms:--"Br. Lettsob
(attaché to the Egglish Legatiob at Washigtol) has beel kild elough to probise to dile with
be ol Bulday lext at 6 o'clock--if you would joil hib aid take a portiol of a plail joilt ald
a puddl, it wd. give great pleasure."

"The Snobs of England" began in the tenth volume, and continued through fifty-one numbers well
into the twelfth. The effect of these papers was remarkable; the sensation they caused was
profound. It may be compared to that of Jerrold's "Caudle Lectures," save that they appealed
to a more cultivated and less demonstrative class, and were appreciated in proportion to their
superior merits. The circulation of Punch rose surprisingly under their benign influence, and
Thackeray did not leave the subject until he had handled it from every point of view and even
carried it abroad. He was, naturally, not a little proud of his first great success, and in
his unaffected manner was tempted to speak about it in Society--where more than in any other
quarter the papers were appreciated. Unfortunately, according to Dr. Gordon Hake's memoirs,
Thackeray broached the subject to George Borrow. He had been trying to make conversation with
that strangely crotchety man, but had completely failed. So, being somewhat embarrassed, he
asked him abruptly, "Have you read my 'Snob Papers' in Punch?" Borrow seemed to thaw. "In Punch,"
he repeated sweetly. "It is a periodical I never look at." This was as bad as the Oxford University
magnate when Thackeray called upon him in 1857 in reference to his lecturing-tour and mentioned
his connection with Punch, the fame of which was great in the land, as a sort of certificate
of character--"Punch--Punch?" repeated the ignorant scholar, "is that not a ribald publication?"
Thackeray, I may add, in order to impart local colour to his chapters on the Club Snob, with
characteristic shrewdness obtained an introduction from Mr. Hampton, the secretary of the Conservative
Club, to the Secretaries of the Reform and the Athenæum, and begged their permission to inspect
their complaint-books--a fact which has not before been recorded; and from them he gained such
an insight into the failings of the snobbish clubman, that that portion of the work is unsurpassed
for its truth to life. It is generally understood that he took Mr. Stephen Price, of the Garrick
Club, as the model for Captain Shandy, and that his type of the sporting snob was Mr. Wyndham
Smith.

There is not much doubt that Thackeray was a little--if ever so little--of a snob himself,
and Jerrold's suspicion of him was to that extent justified. He did not show it so much by
going into Society, for, as he said to a friend, "If I don't go out and mingle in Society,
I can't write"--just as Mr. du Maurier goes out in order to study his world, and as Leech rode
to hounds for the sake of his health and work. But Thackeray, who was the writer of some of
the most caustic articles on "Jenkins"--(under which name Punch habitually attacked the "Morning
Post," the aristocratic airs of which were to him a perpetual provocation)--seemed to take
a little more interest in Society than mere curiosity or policy required; and was once thrown
heavily in an encounter with the "Post's" reporter. Henry Vizetelly retells the story well
in his "Looking Back through Seventy Years":--

     A favourite butt for Hannay's savage satire was Rumsey Forster--the
     Jenkins of the "Morning," or, as Hannay dubbed it, the "Fawning
     Post"--who had supplanted the ci-devant midshipman in the
     affections of some pretty barmaid at a London tavern which they
     both frequented. Forster was most energetic in his particular
     calling, and is said on one occasion to have obtained admission in
     the interests of the "Morning Post" to a Waterloo banquet at Apsley
     House, by getting himself up as one of the extra servants out of
     livery, called in to assist on these occasions. He was highly
     indignant with Thackeray for the way in which he persistently
     ridiculed him in Punch under the cognomen of Jenkins; and I
     remember, after the author of "Vanity Fair" had become a celebrity,
     and began to be invited by other wearers of purple and fine linen,
     besides Lord Carlisle, to their aristocratic soirées, being
     highly amused by Forster telling me how he had taken his revenge.

     "You should know, sir," he said solemnly, "that at Stafford House,
     Lady Palmerston's, and the other swell places, a little table is
     set for me just outside the drawing-room doors, where I take down
     the names of the company as these are announced by the attendant
     footmen. Well, Mr. Thackeray was at the Marquis of Lansdowne's the
     other evening, and his name was called out, as is customary;
     nevertheless, I took very good care that it should not appear in
     the list of the company at Lansdowne House, given in the 'Post.' A
     night or two afterwards I was at Lord John Russell's, and Mr.
     Thackeray's name was again announced, and again I designedly
     neglected to write it down; whereupon the author of 'The Snobs of
     England,' of all persons in the world [it must be candidly
     confessed that Thackeray was himself a bit of a tuft-hunter],
     bowed, and bending over me, said: 'Mr. Thackeray;' to which I
     replied: 'Yes, sir, I am quite aware;' nevertheless, the great Mr.
     Thackeray's name did not appear in the 'Post' the following
     morning."

In another version of the same story it is recorded that when Thackeray pronounced his name
to Rumsey Forster, the latter dramatically retorted, "And I, sir, am Mr. Jenkins"--an account
far more artistic, if somewhat less faithful.

After the "Snobs" were finished and the evergreen "Mahogany Tree," in Volume XII., "Punch's
Prize Novelists" were begun in April, 1847. In their way these parodies have never been excelled,
and the fourth of the series--"Phil Fogarty," by "Harry Rollicker"--was so excellent a burlesque
that Charles Lever, on reading this story of the hero of "the fighting onety-oneth," good-humouredly
declared that he "might as well shut up shop;" and he actually did change, thenceforward, the
manner of his books. These "Prize Novels" continued into the following volume, in which "Travels
in London" were begun. These ran into Volume XIV., 1848, in which year their author received
from Edinburgh a testimonial from eighty of his Scottish admirers. This took the shape of a
silver inkstand in the form of Mr. Punch's person, and greatly resembled that which a similar
subscription had already procured for Mark Lemon. It drew from Thackeray a charming letter
in acknowledgment. Then followed "A Dinner at Timmins's" (Volumes XIV.-XV.) and "Bow Street
Ballads" (Volume XV.), 1848, "Mr. Brown's Letters to a Man about Town" (Volume XVI.), and "Mr.
Brown's Letters to his Son" (Volume XVII.), 1849; "The Proser" (Volumes XVIII.-XIX.), 1850,
and "Important from the Seat of War" (Volumes XXVI.-XXVII.), 1854. These papers, with the exception
of "Mr. Punch to an Eminent Personage" (Volume XXVII., p. 110) and "A Second Letter to an Eminent
Personage" (Volume XXVII., p. 113), were the last Thackeray ever wrote for Punch. The statement
of his biographers that in the year 1850, "If we except one later flicker in 1854, Thackeray's
long connection with Punch died out," is totally incorrect, for in 1851 there are forty-one
literary items and a dozen cuts to his credit. But from that time until 1854 he only contributed
"The Organ Boy's Appeal" (Volume XXV., p. 144), and thenceforward we hear no more of "Policeman
X," of Maloney and his Irish humour, of the Frenchman on whom, in spite of himself, he was
always so severe, no more of Jeames, Jenkins, or the rest of the puppets who lived for us under
his manipulation.[40]

The labour of producing his Punch work was often irksome to him in the extreme, and many a
time would he put Mark Lemon off--now, because he was so well in the swim with his novel then
in hand that he begged hard to be let off, and again, because the Muse was coy and would not
on any account be wooed. On one occasion he wrote explaining with what weariness he had been
battening rhymes for three hours in his head, and could get nothing out: "I must beg you to
excuse me," he ingeniously added, "for I've worked just as much for you as though I had done
something." At other times he would break away from the company he was in, in order to complete
his regulation number of columns. His godson, afterwards the Rev. Francis Thackeray, has told
us how the great man once took him to a conjuring entertainment and, having secured him a good
place, explained "Now, I must leave you awhile, and go and make a five-pound note." And in
such a manner, in haste and with disinclination, was often produced what James Hannay calls
"the inimitable, wise, easy, playful, worldly, social sketch of Thackeray."

Although, as a rule, Thackeray preferred social to political satire, he would sometimes point
an epigram with sharp effect. For example, in 1845, the disclosure in the "Freeman" of J. Young's
letter, to the discomfiture of the Whigs and Lord Melbourne, suggested to Thackeray the line:
"Young's Night Thought--Wish I hadn't franked that letter!" Its appearance in Punch caused
Mr. Sparkes to buttonhole the writer at the Reform Club, and excitedly dilate on the mischief
that was being done to the Party by such very public and sarcastic means. Thackeray burst out
laughing--"the mountain shook," says the historian--but felt a little genuine pleasure at the
circumstance all the same.

As success and public recognition came to him for his novels--the success for which he had
worked so hard--his disinclination to work for Punch increased. No doubt the policy of the
paper had something to do with it; but there can be little question that the great fame and
reward he derived from novel writing made more occasional work distasteful to him, and in 1854--the
year of "The Newcomes"--Thackeray corrected his last proof for Punch. He had foreseen it for
some time, for in 1849 he had written to Mrs. Brookfield from Paris, "What brought me to this
place? Well, I am glad I came; it will give me a subject for at least six weeks in Punch" ["Paris
Revisited," &c.], "of which I was getting so weary that I thought I must have done with it."
Five years afterwards he wrote to the same lady: "What do you think I have done to-day? I have
sent in my resignation to Punch. There appears in next Punch an article so wicked, I think,
by poor ---- [? Jerrold] that upon my word I don't think I ought to pull any longer in the
same boat with such a savage little Robespierre. The appearance of this incendiary article
put me in such a rage that I could only cool myself with a ride in the park."

A more complete and emphatic statement of the facts, as Thackeray viewed them, will be found
in the subjoined letter from the novelist to one of the Punch proprietors, which, by their
courtesy, is here printed for the first time:--

                                                    "March 24th, 1855.
                                                     "36, Onslow Sqre.

  "MY DEAR EVANS,

"I find a note of yours dated Feb. 5, in wh. F.M.E.[41] states that my account shall be prepared
directly. F.M.E. has a great deal to do and pay and think of, but W. M. T. has also his engagements.

"I hope your 'Poetry of Punch' will not be published before my collected Ballads--Now remember
(you wrote me a letter expressly on the subject) that the Copyright of all articles in 'Punch'
were mine, by stipulation--and my book would be very much hurt by the appearance of another
containing 3/4 of its contents.

"I met Murray the publisher the other day, and cannot help fancying from his manner to me that
there is a screw loose with him too about that unlucky Leech article. Lemon, answering one
of my letters, said that he personally complained that my account of leaving 'Punch' was not
correct.

"There was such a row at the time, and I was so annoyed at the wrong that I had done, that
I thought I had best leave Lemon's remonstrance for a while and right it on some future occasion.
I recall now to you and beg you to show to him and to any other persons who may have received
a different version of the story--what the facts were. I had had some serious public differences
with the Conduct of 'Punch'--about the abuse of Prince Albert and the Chrystal [sic] Palace
at wh. I very nearly resigned, about abuse of Lord Palmerston, about abuse finally of L. Napoleon--in
all which 'Punch' followed the 'Times,' wh. I think and thought was writing unjustly at that
time, and dangerously for the welfare and peace of the Country.

"Coming from Edinburgh I bought a 'Punch' containing the picture of a Beggar on Horseback,
in wh. the Emperor was represented galloping to hell with a sword reeking with blood. As soon
as ever I could after my return (a day or 2 days after), I went to Bouverie St., saw you and
gave in my resignation.

"I mention this because I know the cause of my resignation has been questioned at 'Punch'--because
this was the cause of it. I talked it over with you in, and Leech saw me coming out of your
room, and I told him of my retirement.

"No engagement afterwards took place between us; nor have I ever been since a member of 'Punch's'
Cabinet, so to speak. Wishing you all heartily well, I wrote a few occasional papers last year--and
not liking the rate of remuneration, wh. was less than that to wh. I had been accustomed in
my time, I wrote no more.

"And you can say for me as a reason why I should feel hurt at your changing the old rates of
payment made to me--that I am not a man who quarrels about a guinea or two except as a point
of honour; and that when I could have had a much larger sum than that wh. you gave me for my
last novel--I preferred to remain with old friends, who had acted honourably and kindly by me.

"I reproach myself with having written 1/2 a line regarding my old 'Punch' Companions--which
was perfectly true, wh. I have often said--but which I ought not to have written. No other
wrong that I know of have I done. And I think it is now about time that my old friends and
publishers should set me right.

                       "Yours very faithfully, dear Evans,

                                            "W. M. THACKERAY.

  "F. M. Evans, Esq."

Yet, though he resigned, he would still from time to time attend the Dinners, at which he was
always made welcome by the publishers and his late colleagues. When, during this period, he
was pleading for assistance for the family of one of the Staff who had passed away, he took
pleasure in admitting that--"It is through my connection with Punch that I owe the good chances
that have lately befallen me, and have had so many kind offers of help in my own days of trouble
that I would thankfully aid a friend whom death has called away." So, although he was no longer
to be identified with the paper, Thackeray--"the great Thackeray" he had become--was bound
to it and to several members of the Staff by ties of intimate affection, and his sudden death
came with stunning force upon them all. To Leech it was as his own death-knell; and when he,
Mark Lemon, Shirley Brooks, Tom Taylor, Horace Mayhew, "Jacob Omnium," and John Tenniel stood
round his grave, they felt, I have been told, as if the glory of Punch had been irremediably
dimmed. No verses ever penned by Punch's poets to the memory of one of their dead brethren
ever breathed more love or more beauty of thought than those in which Thackeray was mourned,
and defended against the charge of cynicism--"

  "And if his acts, affections, works, and ways
    Stamp not upon the man the cynic's sneer,
  From life to death, oh, public, turn your gaze--
    The last scene of a cynical career!

  "Those uninvited crowds, this hush that lies,
    Unbroken, till the solemn words of prayer
  From many hundred reverent voices rise
    Into the sunny stillness of the air.

  "These tears, in eyes but little used to tears,
    Those sobs, from manly lips, hard set and grim,
  Of friends, to whom his life lay bare for years,
    Of strangers, who but knew his books, not him."

FOOTNOTES:

[40] The inclusion of the article entitled "A Plea for Plush," in the volume of "Contributions
to Punch" in "Complete Works," published by Smith, Elder & Co., is a mistake. The article in
question was by Thackeray's friend, "Jacob Omnium."

[41] Mr. Frederick Mullet Evans. This was at the particular Punch meeting at which Mr. Hamerton
was present. Regular occupation was forthwith found for him as sub-editor, his duties being
to collect the cuts from the artists, to act as medium of communication between the writers
and draughtsmen, and to assist Mark Lemon in making-up the paper; and for these services he
received one pound a week. Soon, however, it was found that the editor could very well perform
all such duties for himself, and the post of "pony" was abolished. Horace--or "Ponny," as he
was invariably nicknamed--became one of the accepted writers. He was most prolific as a suggestor,
and never failed of point and pith in his own numerous little paragraphs. As a proposer he
had much of the talent of his brother, but little of his genius. "The Life and Adventures of
Miss Robinson Crusoe," written by Douglas Jerrold, was "Ponny's" suggestion; but he carried
out his conceptions entirely in such papers as his extremely amusing "Model Men," "Model Women,"
and "Model Couples;" and his "Change for a Shilling" and "Letters left at a Pastrycook's" are
still remembered.

"Ponny" had not a seat "in the Cabinet" until January 11th, 1845, before which time he had
no separate existence as a contributor, all his "copy" being entered indiscriminately to the
Editor. For a long while his average contribution was thirty-one columns in each volume; but
his main value lay in the short articles and paragraphs of a playful and whimsical character.
Thus, when the "Birmingham Advertiser" declared with grovelling snobbishness that "in these
days it is quite refreshing to pronounce the name of the Duke of Newcastle," "Ponny" suggested
that during the summer months "the name of his Grace should be written up in every public thoroughfare."
He was, in fact, in the words of an old friend, "bright, good-natured, and lively, not very
clever, but always letting off little jokes;" "a social butterfly," adds Mr. Sala, "who never
fulfilled the promise of his youth."

He was a strikingly good-looking man, and was justifiably proud of Thackeray's greeting as
they met at Evans's--"Ah, here comes Colonel Newcome!" "From his aristocratic mien and premature
baldness," says Vizetelly, "Wiltshire Austin christened him 'the wicked old Marquis.' The keeping
of late hours was Ponny Mayhew's bane. For a quarter of a century--save an annual fortnight
devoted to recruiting himself at Scarborough or elsewhere--he scorned to seek repose before
the milkman started on his rounds, and during the greater portion of the year never thought
of rising until the sun had set, when he would emerge from his Bond Street rooms as spruce
and gay as a lark." He had been engaged to a daughter of Douglas Jerrold (whose other daughter,
it will be remembered, was the wife of Henry Mayhew), but on the ground that "one Mayhew is
enough in the family," Jerrold would not hear of it, and the young people remained faithful
to each other to the end. Living first with Joseph Swain, the engraver, he afterwards took
up his residence for a time with the Lemons at King's Road, Chelsea.

"Ponny's" portrait, it has often been said, may be seen in the White Knight in "Alice in Wonderland;"
but "the resemblance," says Sir John Tenniel, "was purely accidental, a mere unintentional
caricature, which his friends, of course, were only too delighted to make the most of. P. M.
was certainly handsome, whereas the White Knight can scarcely be considered a type of 'manly
beauty.'" He was a great favourite with the Staff, by reason of his many charming qualities.
What they thought of him may be in a measure deduced from one or two of the verses borrowed
from Shirley Brooks's Birthday Ode, here reproduced from Mr. Hatton's "True Story" in "London
Society":--

  "Is he perfect? Why, no, that is hardly the case;
  If he were, the Punch Table would not be his place;
  You all have your faults--I confess one or two--
  And we love him the better for having a few.

  "He never did murder, like--never mind whom,
  Nor poisoned relations, like--some in this room;
  Nor deceived the young ladies, like--men whom I see,
  Nor even intrigued with a gosling, like--me.

  "No; black are our bosoms, and red are our hands,
  But a model of virtue our Ponniboy stands;
  And his basest detractors can only say this,
  That he's fond of the cup, and the card, and the kiss.

  "A warm-hearted fellow--a faithful ally,
  Our Bloater's[42] Vice-Regent o'er Punch's gone by;
  He's as true to the flag of the White Friars still
  As when he did service with Jerrold and Gil.

  "Here's his health in a bumper! "Old" Ponny--a fib;
  What's fifty? A baby. Bring tucker and bib.
  Add twenty; then ask us again, little boy,
  And till then may your life be all pleasure and joy!"

"Ponny" Mayhew, who did not actually write anything for some years before his end, died in
May, 1872; and on p. 191 of the sixty-second volume a graceful obituary notice pays tribute
to his long and faithful service and his gentle good-nature.

By this time Punch's established reputation brought a great number of anonymous contributions,
only a very few of which were ever used, and of fewer still was the authorship placed upon
record. Early in 1843, however (p. 82, Vol. IV.), Mr. Blackwood, of Edinburgh, sent in one
of the earliest of Scottish witticisms, a conundrum; Joseph O'Leary, a reporter of the "Morning
Herald," is said to have contributed a poem on "The English Vandal;" and R. B. Peake, who had
adapted "A Night with Punch" for W. J. Hammond, began his little series of "Punch's Provincial
Intelligence," of which the most notable is a humorous report of the University Boatrace of
the year; and then the elder Hood began his short but brilliant career.

Thomas Hood had forgiven and forgotten the annoyance he had felt on seeing in the first number
of Punch a bogus advertisement ascribed to him under the title of "Lessons in Punmanship,"
at which he "could only express his amazement that his name should be paraded with apparent
authority in a paper of the very existence of which he was not aware;" and within two years
he became a fairly constant contributor, after writing to Dickens, "You will be glad to hear
that I have made an arrangement with Bradbury to contribute to Punch, but that is a secret
I cannot keep from you. It will be light occasional work for odd times." So he began with a
sketch re-drawn by H. G. Hine, accompanying a "Police Report of a Daring Robbery by a Noble
Lord"--the first of his stinging attacks on Lord William Lennox, one of Punch's favourite and,
it must be admitted, legitimate butts. Then followed at different times a score or more of
conundrums in the true Hoodian vein under the title of "Whys and Whens," fair specimens of
which are these: "Why is killing bees like a confession? Because you unbuzz 'em." "Why is 'yes'
the most ignorant word in the language? Because it doesn't no anything." "What's the difference
between a soldier and a bomb-shell? One goes to wars, the other goes to peaces." "When is a
clock on the stairs dangerous? When it runs down." A couple of sketches and "A Drop of Gin,"
an important poem of seventy-six lines somewhat in the manner of the latter portion of "Miss
Kilmansegg" were followed--enclosed within a comic border!--by his greatest popular effort,
"The Song of the Shirt." This appeared, not in the "Almanac," but in the "Christmas Number,"
on p. 261 of the second volume for 1843.

The particular incident by which this immortal poem was suggested was one which had called
forth a powerful leading-article in the "Times." It was the "terrible fact" that a woman named
Bidell, with a squalid, half-starved infant at the breast, was "charged at the Lambeth police-court
with pawning her master's goods, for which she had to give £2 security. Her husband had died
by an accident, and had left her with two children to support, and she obtained by her needle
for the maintenance of herself and family what her master called the 'good living' of seven
shillings a week."

Punch was at once aglow with red-hot indignation, and in an article entitled "Famine and Fashion!"
proposed an advertisement such as this for the firm that employed her--

  "Holland coats from two-and-three are shown
  By Hunger's haggard fingers neatly sewn.
  Embroidered tunics for your infant made,--
  The eyes are sightless now that worked the braid;
  Rich vests of velvet at this mart appear,
  Each one bedimm'd by some poor widow's tear;
  And riding habits formed for maid or wife,
  All cheap--aye, ladies, cheap as pauper-life.
  For mourning suits this is the fitting mart,
  For every garment help'd to break a heart."

The subject touched Hood more powerfully perhaps than others, for his nature was essentially
grave and sympathetic. As he himself had said, it was only for his livelihood that he was a
lively Hood--although he was always brimming over with comicalities; and he never felt more
deeply the dignity of his profession and his own force and weight than when he was engaged
on serious work. So Hood conjured up his "Song of the Shirt," moved by the revelations of poor
seamstresses who received, as it appeared, five farthings a shirt, out of which sum they had
to find their own needles! Mark Lemon told Mr. Joseph Hatton that Hood had "accompanied the
poem with a few lines in which he expressed the fear that it was hardly suitable for Punch,
and leaving it between his discretion and the waste-paper basket." It had, said Hood, already
been rejected by three papers, and he was sick of the sight of it. Mark Lemon brought the poem
up at the Table, where the majority of the Staff protested against its inclusion in a comic
paper. But Lemon was determined; and, after all, was it not for a Christmas number that he
destined it--a number in which something serious, pathetic, with a note of pity and love, was
surely not out of place?

The effect on its publication was tremendous. The poem went through the land like wild-fire.
Nearly every paper quoted it, headed by the "Times;" it was the talk of the hour, the talk
of the country. It went straight to John Bull's kind, bourgeois, sympathetic heart, just as
Carlyle declared that Ruskin's truths had "pierced like arrows" into his. The authorship, too,
was vigorously canvassed with intense interest. Dickens, with that keen insight and critical
faculty which had enabled him almost alone among literary experts to detect the sex of George
Eliot, then an unknown writer (though doubtless he was helped in the case I now speak of by
Hood's letter to him just quoted), was one of the few who at once named the writer of the verses.
And it was well for Hood that he had proof positive of the authorship, for one of the most
curious things connected with the poem was the number of persons who had the incomprehensible
audacity to claim it. One young gentleman was mentioned by name, either by his friends or himself,
and I find a letter in a volume of newspaper cuttings to this effect: "I have just read, to
my great surprise, the announcement in your paper that Mr. Hood wrote 'The Song of the Shirt,'
because I know positively that what I before stated to you is the fact." So hard pressed, indeed,
was Hood, that he wrote a private letter in February, 1845, in the following terms:--

     "As I have publicly acknowledged the authorship of the 'Song of
     the Shirt,' I can have no objection to satisfy you privately on
     the subject. My old friends Bradbury and Evans, the proprietors of
     Punch, could show you the document conclusive on the subject. But
     I trust my authority will be sufficient, especially as it comes
     from a man on his death-bed."

Had these literary vultures had their way, Hood would have been brazened out of his verses
altogether.

Punch shared handsomely in the glory of the poet, and its circulation tripled on the strength
of it. And Mrs. Hood, poor soul, triumphed in her prophecy; for had she not said, and maintained
in spite of each successive rejection from foolish editors--"Now mind, Hood, mark my words;
this will tell wonderfully! It is one of the best things you ever did!"

