The marriages, in compliment to the brides, were celebrated after the Persian fashion, and
during the vernal equinox. For at no other period, by the ancient laws of Persia, could nuptials
be legally celebrated. Such an institution is redolent of the poetry and freshness of the new
world, and of an attention to the voice of nature, and the analogies of physical life. The
young couple would marry in time to sow their field, to reap the harvest, and gather their
stores, before the season of cold and scarcity overtook them. It is difficult to say how far
this custom prevailed among primitive nations, but it can scarcely be doubted that we still
retain lingering traces of it in the harmless amusements of St. Valentine's day.

On the wedding-day Alexander feasted the eighty bridegrooms in a magnificent hall prepared
for the purpose. Eighty separate couches were placed for the guests, and on each a magnificent
wedding-robe for every individual. At the conclusion of the banquet, and while the wine and
the dessert were on the table, the eighty brides were introduced; Alexander first rose, received
the princess, took her by the hand, kissed her, and placed her on the couch close to himself.
This example was followed by all, till every lady was seated by her betrothed. This formed
the whole of the Persian ceremony--the salute being regarded as the seal of appropriation.
The Macedonian form was still more simple and symbolical. The bridegroom, dividing a small
loaf with his sword, presented one-half to the bride; wine was then poured as a libation on
both portions, and the contracting parties tasted of the bread. Cake and wine, as nuptial refreshments,
may thus claim a venerable antiquity. In due time the bridegrooms conducted their respective
brides to chambers prepared for them within the precincts of the royal palace.

The festivities continued for five days, and all the amusements of the age were put into requisition
for the entertainment of the company. Athenaeus has quoted from Charas, a list of the chief
performers, which I transcribe more for the sake of the performances and of the states where
these lighter arts were brought to the greatest perfection, than of the names, which are now
unmeaning sounds. Scymnus from Tarentum, Philistides from Syracuse, and Heracleitus from Mytylenè,
were the great jugglers, or as the Greek word intimates, the wonder-workers of the day. After
them, Alexis, the Tarentine, displayed his excellence as a rhapsodist, or repeater, to appropriate
music, of the soul-stirring poetry of Homer. Cratinus the Methymnoean, Aristonymus the Athenian,
Athenodorus the Teian, played on the harp--without being accompanied by the voice. On the contrary,
Heracleitus the Tarentine, and Aristocrates the Theban, accompanied their harps with lyric
songs. The performers on wind instruments were divided on a similar, although it could not
be on the same principle. Dionysius from Heracleia, and Hyperbolus from Cyzicum, sang to the
flute, or some such instrument; while Timotheus, Phrynichus, Scaphisius, Diophantus, and Evius,
the Chalcidian, first performed the Pythian overture, and then, accompanied by chorusses, displayed
the full power of wind instruments in masterly hands. There was also a peculiar class called
eulogists of Bacchus; these acquitted themselves so well on this occasion, applying to Alexander
those praises which in their extemporaneous effusions had hitherto been confined to the god,
that they acquired the name of Eulogists of Alexander. Nor did their reward fail them. The
stage, of course, was not without its representatives:--Thessalus, Athenodorus, Aristocritus,
in tragedy--Lycon, Phormion, and Ariston, in comedy--exerted their utmost skill, and contended
for the prize of superior excellence. Phasimelus, the dancer was also present.

It is yet undecided whether the Persians admitted their matrons to their public banquets and
private parties;--but if we can believe the positive testimony of Herodotus, such was the case:
and the summons of Vashti to the annual festival, and the admission of Haman to the queen's
table, are facts which support the affirmation of that historian. The doubts upon the subject
appear to have arisen from confounding the manners of Assyrians, Medes, and Parthians, with
those of the more Scythian tribes of Persis. We read in Xenophon that the Persian women were
so well made and beautiful, that their attractions might easily have seduced the affections
of the Ten Thousand, and have caused them, like the lotus-eating companions of Ulysses, to
forget their native land. Some little hints as to the mode in which their beauty was enhanced
and their persons decorated, may be expected in the Life of Alexander, who, victorious over
their fathers and brothers, yet submitted to their charms.

The Persian ladies wore the tiara or turban richly adorned with jewels. They wore their hair
long, and both plaited and curled it; nor, if the natural failed, did they scruple to use false
locks. They pencilled the eyebrows, and tinged the eyelid, with a dye that was supposed to
add a peculiar brilliancy to the eyes. They were fond of perfumes, and their delightful ottar
was the principal favourite. Their tunic and drawers were of fine linen, the robe or gown of
silk--the train of this was long, and on state occasions required a supporter. Round the waist
they wore a broad zone or cincture, flounced on both edges, and embroidered and jewelled in
the centre. They also wore stockings and gloves, but history has not recorded their materials.
They used no sandals; a light and ornamented shoe was worn in the house; and for walking they
had a kind of coarse half boot. They used shawls and wrappers for the person, and veils for
the head; the veil was large and square, and when thrown over the head descended low on all
sides. They were fond of glowing colours, especially of purple, scarlet, and light-blue dresses.
Their favourite ornaments were pearls; they wreathed these in their hair, wore them as necklaces,
ear-drops, armlets, bracelets, anklets, and worked them into conspicuous parts of their dresses.
Of the precious stones they preferred emeralds, rubies, and turquoises, which were set in gold
and worn like the pearls.

Alexander did not limit his liberality to the wedding festivities, but presented every bride
with a handsome marriage portion. He also ordered the names of all the soldiers who had married
Asiatic wives to be registered; their number exceeded 10,000; and each received a handsome
present, under the name of marriage gift.--Williams's Life of Alexander, Family Library, No. 3.

       *       *       *       *       *

POEMS, BY W.T. MONCRIEFF.

This is a pretty little volume of graceful poems, printed "at the author's private press, for
private distribution only." They are, however, entitled by their merits, to more extensive,
or public circulation; for many of them evince the good taste and pure feelings of the writer.
Some of the pieces relate to domestic circumstances, others are calculated to cheat "sorrow
of a smile," whilst all are, to use a set phrase, highly honourable to the head and heart of
the author. In proof of this, we could detach several pages; but we have only space for a few:

SONG.

  As flowers, that seem the light to shun
  At evening's dusk and morning's haze,
  Expand beneath the noon-tide sun,
  And bloom to beauty in his rays,
  So maidens, in a lover's eyes,
  A thousand times more lovely grow,
  Yield added sweetness to his sighs,
  And with unwonted graces glow.

  As gems from light their brilliance gain,
  And brightest shine when shone upon,
  Nor half their orient rays retain,
  When light wanes dim and day is gone:
  So Beauty beams, for one dear one!
  Acquires fresh splendour in his sight,
  Her life--her light--her day--her sun--
  Her harbinger of all that's bright![2]

    [2] "There is nothing new under the sun;" Solomon was right. I
    had written these lines from experiencing the truth of them, and
    really imagined I had been the first to express, what so many
    must have felt; but on looking over Rogers's delicious little
    volume of Poems, some time after this was penned, I find he has,
    with his usual felicity, noted the same effect. I give his Text
    and Commentary; they occur in his beautiful poem, "Human Life,"
    speaking of a girl in love, he says:

      "--soon her looks the rapturous truth avow,
      Lovely before, oh, say how lovely now!"

    On which he afterwards remarks:

    "Is it not true that the young not only appear to be, but really
    are, most beautiful in the presence of those they love? It calls
    forth all their beauty."

    Such a coincidence might almost induce me to exclaim with the
    plagiarising pedant of antiquity, "Pereant qui ante nos nostra
    dixerunt!"

ANECDOTE VERSIFIED.

Lord Albemarle to Mademoiselle Gaucher, on seeing her look very earnestly at the Evening Star.

  Oh! do not gaze upon that star,
  That distant star, so earnestly,
  If thou would'st not my pleasure mar--
  For ah! I cannot give it thee.[3]

  And, such is my unbounded love,
  Thou should'st not gaze upon a thing
  I would not make thee mistress of,
  And prove in love, at least, a King!

    [3] Lord Albemarle, when advanced in years, was the lover and
    protector of Mademoiselle Gaucher. Her name of infancy, and that
    by which she was more endeared to her admirer, was Lolotte. One
    evening, as they were walking together, perceiving her eyes
    fixed on a star, he said to her, "Do not look at it so
    earnestly, my dear, I cannot give it you!"--Never, says
    Marmontel, did love express itself more delicately.

STANZAS TO THE SHADE OF ----

In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on men,--an image was before
mine eyes; there was silence, and I heard a voice. JOB iv. 13.

  Reproach me not, beloved shade!
  Nor think thy memory less I prize;
  The smiles that o'er my features play'd,
  But hid my pangs from vulgar eyes.
  I acted like the worldling boy,
  With heart to every feeling vain:
  I smil'd with all, yet felt no joy;
  I wept with all, yet felt no pain,

  No--though, to veil thoughts of gloom,
  I seem'd to twine Joy's rosy wreath,
  'Twas but as flowerets o'er a tomb.
  Which only hide the woe beneath.
  I lose no portion of my woes,
  Although my tears in secret flow;
  More green and fresh the verdure grows,
  Where the cold streams run hid below.

A MODEST ODE TO FORTUNE.

"Et genus et formam regina pecunia donat." HOR.

  O Goddess Fortune, hear my prayer,
  And make a bard for once thy care!
  I do not ask, in houses splendid,
  To be by liveried slaves attended;
  I ask not for estates, nor land,
  Nor host of vassals at command;
  I ask not for a handsome wife--
  Though I dislike a single life;
  I ask not friends, nor fame, nor power,
  Nor courtly rank, nor leisure's hour;
  I ask not books, nor wine, nor plate.
  Nor yet acquaintance with the great;
  Nor dance, nor sons, nor mirth, nor jest,
  Nor treasures of the East or West;
  I ask not beauty, wit, nor ease,
  Nor qualities more blest than these--
  Learning nor genius, skill nor art,
  Nor valour for the hero's part;
  These, though I much desire to have,
  I do not, dearest goddess, crave.--
  I modestly for MONEY call--
  For money will procure them all!

ANACREONTIC.

  Come fill the bowl!--one summer's day,
  Some hearts, that had been wreck'd and sever'd,
  Again to tempt the liquid way,
  And join their former mates endeavour'd;
  But then arose this serious question.
  Which best to kindred hearts would guide?
  Water, was Prudence' pure suggestion,
  But that they thought too cool a tide!

  Peace bade them try the milky way,
  But they were fearful 'twould becalm them;
  Cried Love, on dews of morning stray,--
  They deem'd 'twould from their purpose charm them.
  Cried Friendship, try the ruby tide,--
  They did--each obstacle departs;
  'Tis still with wine 'reft hearts will glide
  Most surely unto kindred hearts.

THE PILGRIM PRINCE.--BALLAD.

  At blush of morn, the silver horn
  Was loudly blown at the castle gate;
  And, from the wall, the Seneschal
  Saw there a weary pilgrim wait.
  "What news--what news, thou stranger bold?
  Thy looks are rough, thy raiment old!
  And little does Lady Isabel care
  To know how want and poverty fare."
  "Ah let me straight that lady see,
  For far I come from the North Country!"

  "And who art thou, bold wight, I trow,
  That would to Lady Isabel speak!"
  "One who, long since shone as a prince,
  And kiss'd her damask cheek:
  But oh, my trusty sword has fail'd,
  The cruel Paynim has prevail'd,
  My lands are lost, my friends are few,
  Trifles all, if my lady's true!"
  "Poor prince! ah when did woman's truth,
  Outlive the loss of lands and youth!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

THE SPLENDID ANNUAL.

By the Author of "Sayings and Doings."

Literature, even in this literary age, is not the ordinary pursuit of the citizens of London,
although every merchant is necessarily a man of letters, and underwriters are as common as
cucumbers. Notwithstanding, however, my being a citizen, I am tempted to disclose the miseries
and misfortunes of my life in these pages, because having heard the "ANNIVERSARY" called a
splendid annual, I hope for sympathy from its readers, seeing that I have been a "splendid
annual" myself.

My name is Scropps--I am an Alderman--I was Sheriff--I have been Lord Mayor--and the three
great eras of my existence were the year of my shrievalty, the year of my mayoralty, and the
year after it. Until I had passed through this ordeal I had no conception of the extremes of
happiness and wretchedness to which a human being may be carried, nor ever believed that society
presented to its members an eminence so exalted as that which I once touched, or imagined a
fall so great as that which I experienced. I came originally from that place to which persons
of bad character are said to be sent--I mean Coventry, where my father for many years contributed
his share to the success of parliamentary candidates, the happiness of new married couples,
and even the gratification of ambitious courtiers, by taking part in the manufacture of ribands
for election cockades, wedding favours, and cordons of chivalry; but trade failed, and, like
his betters, he became bankrupt, but, unlike his betters, without any consequent advantage
to himself; and I, at the age of fifteen, was thrown upon the world with nothing but a strong
constitution, a moderate education, and fifteen shillings and eleven pence three farthings
in my pocket.

With these qualifications I started from my native town on a pedestrian excursion to London;
and although I fell into none of those romantic adventures of which I had read at school, I
met with more kindness than the world generally gets credit for, and on the fourth day after
my departure, having slept soundly, if not magnificently, every night, and eaten with an appetite
which my mode of travelling was admirably calculated to stimulate, reached the great metropolis,
having preserved of my patrimony, no less a sum than nine shillings and seven pence.

The bells of one of the churches in the city were ringing merrily as I descended the heights
of Islington; and were it not that my patronymic Scropps never could, under the most improved
system of campanology, be jingled into any thing harmonious, I have no doubt I, like my great
predecessor Whittington, might have heard in that peal a prediction of my future exaltation;
certain it is I did not; and, wearied with my journey, I took up my lodging for the night at
a very humble house near Smithfield, to which I had been kindly recommended by the driver of
a return postchaise, of whose liberal offer of the moiety of his bar to town I had availed
myself at Barnet.

As it is not my intention to deduce a moral from my progress in the world at this period of
my life, I need not here dilate upon the good policy of honesty, or the advantages of temperance
and perseverance, by which I worked my way upwards, until after meriting the confidence of
an excellent master, I found myself enjoying it fully. To his business I succeeded at his death,
having several years before, with his sanction, married a young and deserving woman, about
my own age, of whose prudence and skill in household matters I had long had a daily experience.

To be brief, Providence blessed my efforts and increased my means; I became a wholesale dealer
in every thing, from barrels of gunpowder down to pickled herrings; in the civic acceptation
of the word I was a merchant, amongst the vulgar I am called a dry-salter. I accumulated wealth;
with my fortune my family also grew, and one male Scropps, and four female ditto, grace my
board at least once in every week.

Passing over the minor gradations of my life, the removal from one residence to another, the
enlargement of this warehouse, the rebuilding of that, the anxiety of a canvass for common
council man, activity in the company of which I am liveryman, inquests, and vestries, and ward
meetings, and all the other pleasing toils to which an active citizen is subject, let us come
at once to the first marked epoch of my life--the year of my Shrievalty. The announcement of
my nomination and election filled Mrs. S. with delight; and when I took my children to Great
Queen Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields, to look at the gay chariot brushing up for me, I confess
I felt proud and happy to be able to show my progeny the arms of London, those of the Spectacle
Makers' Company, and those of the Scroppses (recently found at a trivial expense) all figuring
upon the same panels. They looked magnificent upon the pea-green ground, and the wheels, "white
picked out crimson," looked so chaste, and the hammercloth, and the fringe, and the festoons,
and the Scropps' crests all looked so rich, and the silk linings and white tassels, and the
squabs and the yellow cushions and the crimson carpet looked so comfortable, that, as I stood
contemplating the equipage, I said to myself, "What have I done to deserve this?--O that my
poor father were alive to see his boy Jack going down to Westminster, to chop sticks and count
hobnails, in a carriage like this!" My children were like mad things: and in the afternoon,
when I put on my first new brown court suit (lined, like my chariot, with white silk) and fitted
up with cut steel buttons, just to try the effect, it all appeared like a dream; the sword,
which I tried on every night for half an hour after I went up to bed, to practise walking with
it, was very inconvenient at first; but use is second nature; and so by rehearsing and rehearsing,
I made myself perfect before that auspicious day when Sheriffs flourish and geese prevail--namely,
the twenty-ninth of September.

The twelve months which followed were very delightful; for independently of the positive honour
and éclat they produced, I had the Mayoralty in prospectû (having attained my aldermanic gown
by an immense majority the preceding year), and as I used during the sessions to sit in my
box at the Old Bailey, with my bag at my back and my bouquet on my book, my thoughts were wholly
devoted to one object of contemplation; culprits stood trembling to hear the verdict of a jury,
and I regarded them not; convicts knelt to receive the fatal fiat of the Recorder, and I heeded
not their sufferings, as I watched the Lord Mayor seated in the centre of the bench, with the
sword of justice stuck up in a goblet over his head--there, thought I, if I live two years,
shall I sit--however, even as it was, it was very agreeable. When executions, the chief drawbacks
to my delight, happened, I found, after a little seasoning, I took the thing coolly, and enjoyed
my toast and tea after the patients were turned off, just as if nothing had happened; for,
in my time, we hanged at eight and breakfasted at a quarter after, so that without much hurry
we were able to finish our muffins just in time for the cutting down at nine. I had to go to
the House of Commons with a petition, and to Court with an address--trying situations for one
of the Scroppses--however, the want of state in parliament, and the very little attention paid
to us by the members, put me quite at my ease at Westminster; while the gracious urbanity of
our accomplished monarch on his throne made me equally comfortable at St. James's. Still I
was but a secondary person, or rather only one of two secondary persons--the chief of bailiffs
and principal Jack Ketch; there was a step to gain--and, as I often mentioned in confidence
to Mrs. Scropps, I was sure my heart would never be still until I had reached the pinnacle.

Behold at length the time arrived!--Guildhall crowded to excess--the hustings thronged--the
aldermen retire--they return--their choice is announced to the people--it has fallen upon John
Ebenezer Scropps, Esq., Alderman and spectacle maker--a sudden shout is heard--"Scropps for
ever!" resounds--the whole assembly seems to vanish from my sight--I come forward--am invested
with the chain--I bow--make a speech--tumble over the train of the Recorder, and tread upon
the tenderest toe of Mr. Deputy Pod--leave the hall in ecstasy, and drive home to Mrs. Scropps
in a state of mind bordering upon insanity.

The days wore on, each one seemed as long as a week, until at length the eighth of November
arrived, and then did it seem certain that I should be Lord Mayor--I was sworn in--the civic
insignia were delivered to me--I returned them to the proper officers--my chaplain was near
me--the esquires of my household were behind me--the thing was done--never shall I forget the
tingling sensation I felt in my ear when I was first called "My Lord"--I even doubted if it
were addressed to me, and hesitated to answer--but it was so--the reign of splendour had begun,
and, after going through the accustomed ceremonies, I got home and retired to bed early, in
order to be fresh for the fatigues of the ensuing day.

Sleep I did not--how was it to be expected?--Some part of the night I was in consultation with
Mrs. Scropps upon the different arrangements; settling about the girls, their places at the
banquet, and their partners at the ball; the wind down the chimney sounded like the shouts
of the people; the cocks crowing in the mews at the back of the house I took for trumpets sounding
my approach; and the ordinary incidental noises in the family I fancied the pop-guns at Stangate,
announcing my disembarkation at Westminster--thus I tossed and tumbled until the long wished-for
day dawned, and I jumped up anxiously to realize the visions of the night. I was not long at
my toilet--I was soon shaved and dressed--but just as I was settling myself comfortably into
my beautiful brown broadcloth inexpressibles, crack went something, and I discovered that a
seam had ripped half a foot long. Had it been consistent with the dignity of a Lord Mayor to
swear, I should, I believe, at that moment, have anathematized the offending tailor;--as it
was, what was to be done?--I heard trumpets in earnest, carriages drawing up and setting down;
sheriffs, and chaplains, mace bearers, train bearers, sword bearers, water bailiffs, remembrancers,
Mr. Common Hunt, the town clerk, and the deputy town clerk, all bustling about--the bells ringing--and
I late, with a hole in my inexpressibles! There was but one remedy--my wife's maid, kind, intelligent
creature, civil and obliging, and ready to turn her hand to any thing, came to my aid, and
in less than fifteen minutes her activity, exerted in the midst of the confusion, repaired
the injury, and turned me out fit to be seen by the whole corporation of London.

When I was dressed, I tapped at Mrs. Scropps's door, went in, and asked her if she thought
I should do; the dear soul, after settling my point lace frill (which she had been good enough
to pick off her own petticoat on purpose) and putting my bag straight, gave me the sweetest
salute imaginable.

"I wish your lordship health and happiness," said she.

But what was a sword hilt or a bruise to me? I was the Lord Mayor--the greatest man of the
greatest city of the greatest nation in the world. The people realized my anticipations, and
"Bravo, Scropps!" and "Scropps for ever!" again resounded, as we proceeded slowly and majestically
towards the river, through a fog, which prevented our being advantageously seen, and which
got down the throat of the sword bearer, who coughed incessantly during our progress, much
to my annoyance, not to speak of the ungraceful movements which his convulsive barkings gave
to the red velvet scabbard of the official glave as it stuck out of the window of the coach.

We embarked in my barge; a new scene of splendour awaited me, guns, shouts, music, flags, banners,
in short, every thing that fancy could paint or a water bailiff provide; there, in the gilded
bark, was prepared a cold collation--I ate, but tasted nothing--fowls, patés, tongue, game,
beef, ham, all had the same flavour; champagne, hock, and Madeira were all alike to me--Lord
Mayor was all I saw, all I heard, all I swallowed; every thing was pervaded by the one captivating
word, and the repeated appeal to "my lordship" was sweeter than nectar. There had not been
so much riband in my family since my poor father's failure at Coventry--and yet how often,
over and over again, although he had been dead more than twenty years, did I, during that morning,
in the midst of my splendour, think of him, and wish that he could see me in my greatness--yes,
even in the midst of my triumph I seemed to defer to my good, kind parent--in heaven, as I
hope and trust--as if I were anxious for his judgment and his opinion as to how I should perform
the arduous and manifold duties of the day.

Up Ludgate Hill we moved--the fog grew thicker and thicker--but then the beautiful women at
the windows--those up high could only see my knees and the paste buckles in my shoes; every
now and then, I bowed condescendingly to people I had never seen before, in order to show my
courtesy and my chain and collar, which I had discovered during the morning shone the better
for being shaken.

At length we reached Guildhall--as I crossed the beautiful building, lighted splendidly, and
filled with well dressed company, and heard the deafening shouts which rent the fane as I entered
it, I really was overcome--I retired to a private room--refreshed my dress, rubbed up my chain,
which the damp had tarnished, and prepared to receive my guests. They came, and--shall I ever
forget it?--dinner was announced; the bands played "O the roast beef of Old England." Onwards
we went, a Prince of the blood, of the blood royal of my country, led out my Sally--my own
Sally--the Lady Mayoress! the Lord High Chancellor handed out young Sally--I saw it done--I
thought I should have choked; the Prime Minister took Maria; the Lord Privy Seal gave his arm
to Jenny; and my wife's mother, Mrs. Snob, was honoured by the protection of the Right Honourable
the Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench.--Oh, if my poor father could have but seen that!

It would be tiresome to dwell upon the pleasures of the happy year, thus auspiciously begun,
in detail; each month brought its delights, each week its festival; public meetings under the
sanction of the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor; concerts and balls under the patronage of
the Lady Mayoress; Easter and its dinner, Blue-coat boys and buns; processions here, excursions
there.--Summer came, and then we had swan-hopping up the river, and white-baiting down the
river; Yantlet Creek below, the navigation barge above; music, flags, streamers, guns, and
company; turtle every day in the week; peas at a pound a pint, and grapes at a guinea a pound;
dabbling in rosewater served in gold, not to speak of the loving cup, with Mr. Common Hunt,
in full dress, at my elbow; my dinners were talked of, Ude grew jealous, and I was idolized.

The days, which before seemed like weeks, were now turned to minutes: scarcely had I swallowed
my breakfast before I was in my justice-room; and before I had mittimused half a dozen paupers
for beggary, I was called away to luncheon; this barely over, in comes a deputation or a dispatch,
and so on till dinner, which was barely ended before supper was announced. It was however too
much for me--the effect of contrast was too powerful, the change was too sudden--and I determined
to go to Brighton for a few weeks to refresh myself, and be weaned from my dignity.

We went--we drove to the Royal Hotel; in the hall stood one of his Majesty's ministers, one
of my former guests, speaking to his lady and daughter: my girls passed close to him--he had
handed one of them to dinner the year before, but he appeared entirely to have forgotten her.
By and by, when we were going out in a fly to take the air, one of the waiters desired the
fly man to pull off, because Sir Something Somebody's carriage could not come up--it was clear
that the name of Scropps had lost its influence.

We secluded ourselves in a private house, where we did nothing but sigh and look at the sea.
We had been totally spoiled for our proper sphere, and could not get into a better; the indifference
of our inferiors mortified us, and the familiarity of our equals disgusted us--our potentiality
was gone, and we were so much degraded that a puppy of a fellow had the impertinence to ask
Jenny if she was going to one of the Old Ship balls. "Of course," said the coxcomb, "I don't
mean the 'Almacks,' for they are uncommonly select."

In short, do what we would, go where we might, we were outraged and annoyed, or at least thought
ourselves so; and beyond all bitterness was the reflection, that the days of our dignity and
delight never might return. There were at Brighton no less than three men who called me Jack,
and that, out of flies or in libraries, and one of these, chose occasionally, by way of making
himself particularly agreeable, to address me by the familiar appellation of Jacky. At length,
and that only three weeks after my fall, an overgrown tallow-chandler met us on the Steyne,
and stopped our party to observe, "as how he thought he owed me for two barrels of coal tar,
for doing over his pigsties." This settled it--we departed from Brighton, and made a tour of
the coast; but we never rallied; and business, which must be minded, drove us before Christmas
to Budge Row, where we are again settled down.

Maria has grown thin--Sarah has turned methodist--and Jenny, who danced with his Excellency
the Portuguese Ambassador, who was called angelic by the Right Honourable the Lord Privy Seal,
and who moreover refused a man of fortune because he had an ugly name, is going to be married
to Lieutenant Stodge, on the half pay of the Royal Marines--and what then?--I am sure if it
were not for the females of my family I should be perfectly at my ease in my proper sphere,
out of which the course of our civic constitution raised me. It was unpleasant at first:--but
I have toiled long and laboured hard; I have done my duty, and Providence has blessed my works.
If we were discomposed at the sudden change in our station, I it is who was to blame for having
aspired to honours which I knew were not to last. However the ambition was not dishonourable,
nor did I disgrace the station while I held it; and when I see, as in the present year, that
station filled by a man of education and talent, of high character and ample fortune, I discover
no cause to repent of having been one of his predecessors. Indeed I ought to apologize for
making public the weakness by which we were all affected; especially as I have myself already
learned to laugh at what we all severely felt at first--the miseries of a SPLENDID ANNUAL.--Sharpe's
London Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

A CHAPTER ON HEATHEN MYTHOLOGY

    "Ut sunt divorum, Mars, Bacchus, Apollo."
                   Latin Grammar.

  Did you ever look
  In Mr. Tooke,
  For Homer's gods and goddesses?
  The males in the air,
  So big and so bare,
  And the girls without their bodices.

  There was Jupiter Zeus,
  Who play'd the deuce,
  A rampant blade and a tough one;
  But Denis bold,
  Stole his coat of gold,
  And rigg'd him out in a stuff one,

  Juno, when old,
  Was a bit of a scold,
  And rul'd Jove jure divino;
  When he went gallivaunting,
  His steps she kept haunting,[4]
  And she play'd, too, the devil with Ino.

  Minerva bright
  Was a blue-stocking wight,
  Who lodg'd among the Attics;
  And, like Lady V.
  From the men did flee,
  To study the mathematics.

  Great Mars, we're told,
  Was a grenadier bold,
  Who Vulcan sorely cuckold;
  When to Rome he went,
  He his children sent
  To a she-wolf to be suckled.

  Midas.

  Sol, the rat-catcher,[5]
  Was a great body-snatcher,
  And with his bow and arrows
  He Burked, through the trees,
  Master Niobes,
  As though they had been cock sparrows.

  Diana, his sister,
  When nobody kiss'd her,
  Was a saint, (at least a semi one,)
  Yet the vixen Scandal
  Made a terrible handle
  Of her friendship for Eudymion.

  Full many a feat
  Did Hercules neat,
  The least our credit draws on;
  Jesting Momus, so sly,
  Said, "'Tis all my eye,"
  And he call'd him Baron Munchausen.

  Fair Bacchus's face
  Many signs did grace,
  (They were not painted by Zeuxis:)
  Of his brewing trade
  He a mystery made,[6]
  Like our Calverts and our Meuxes.

  There was Mistress Venus,
  (I say it between us,)
  For virtue cared not a farden:
  There never was seen
  Such a drabbish quean
  In the parish of Covent Garden.

  Hermes cunning
  Poor Argus funning,
  He made him drink like a buffer;
  To his great surprise
  Sew'd up all his eyes,
  And stole away his heifer.

  A bar-maid's place
  Was Hebe's grace,
  Till Jupiter did trick her;
  He turn'd her away,
  And made Ganimede stay
  To pour him out his liquor.

  Ceres in life
  Was a farmer's wife,
  But she doubtless kept a jolly house;
  For Rumour speaks,
  She was had by the Beaks
  To swear her son Triptolemus.[7]

  Miss Proserpine
  She thought herself fine,
  But when all her plans miscarried,
  She the Devil did wed,
  And took him to bed,
  Sooner than not be married.

  But the worst of the gods,
  Beyond all odds,
  It cannot be denied, oh!
  Is that first of matchmakers,
  That prince of housebreakers,
  The urchin, Dan Cupido.

           New Monthly Magazine.

    [4] "I'll search out the haunts
        Of your fav'rite gallants,
        And into cows metamorphose 'em."

    [5] Apollo Smintheus. He destroyed a great many rats in Phrygia,
    and was probably the first "rat-catcher to the King."--Vet.
    Schol.

    [6] "Mystica vannus Isacchi." This was either a porter-brewer's
    dray, or more probably the Van of his druggist.--Scriblerus.

    [7] There is some difference of opinion concerning this fact:
    the lady, like so many others in her interesting situation,
    passed through the adventure under an alias. But that Ceres
    and Terra were the same, no reasonable person will doubt: and
    there can be no serious objection to the little trip being
    thus ascribed to the goddess in question.--Scriblerus.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE SEASON" IN TOWN.

Theodore.--I don't know how you could prevent people from living half the year in town.

Tickler.--I have no objection to their living half the year in town, as you call it, if they
can live in such a hell upon earth, of dust, noise, and misery. Only think of the Dolphin water
in the solar microscope!

Theodore.--I know nothing of the water of London personally.

Odoherty.--Nor I; but I take it, we both have a notion of its brandy and water.

Tickler.--'Tis, in fact, their duty to be a good deal in London. But I'll tell you what I do
object to, and what I rather think are evils of modern date, or at any rate, of very rapid
recent growth. First, I object to their living those months of the year in which it is contra
bonos mores to be in London, not in their paternal mansions, but at those little bastardly
abortions, which they call watering-places--their Leamingtons, their Cheltenhams, their Brighthelmstones.

Theodore.--Brighton, my dear rustic Brighton!

Odoherty.--Synopicé.

Shepherd.--What's your wull, Sir Morgan? It does no staun' wi' me.

Theodore.--A horrid spot, certainly--but possessing large conveniences, sir, for particular
purposes. For example, sir, the balcony on the drawing-room floor commonly runs on the same
level all round the square--which in the Brighthelmstonic dialect, sir, means a three-sided
figure. The advantage is obvious,

Shepherd.--Och, sirs! och, sirs! what wull this world come to!

Theodore.--The truth is, sir, that people comme il faut cannot well submit to the total change
of society and manners implied in a removal from Whitehall or Mayfair to some absurd old antediluvian
chateau, sir, boxed up among beeches and rooks. Sir, only think of the small Squires with the
red faces, sir, and the grand white waistcoats down to their hips--and the dames, sir, with
their wigs, and their simpers, and their visible pockets--and the damsels, blushing things
in white muslin, with sky-blue sashes and ribbons, and mufflers and things--and the sons, sir,
the promising young gentlemen, sir--and the doctor, and the lawyer--and the parson. So you
disapprove of Brighton, Mr. Tickler?

Tickler.--Brighthelmstone, when I knew it, was a pleasant fishing village--what like it is
now, I know not; but what I detest in the great folks of your time, is, that insane selfishness
which makes them prefer any place, however abominable, where they can herd together in their
little exquisite coteries, to the noblest mansions surrounded with the noblest domains, where
they cannot exist without being more or less exposed to the company of people not exactly belonging
to their own particular sect. How can society hang together long in a country where the Corinthian
capital takes so much pains to unrift itself from the pillar? Now-a-day, sir, your great lord,
commonly speaking, spends but a month or six weeks in his ancestral abode; and even when he
is there, he surrounds himself studiously with a cursed town-crew, a pack of St. James's Street
fops, and Mayfair chatterers and intriguers, who give themselves airs enough to turn the stomachs
of the plain squirearchy and their womankind, and render a visit to the castle a perfect nuisance.

Theodore (aside to Mullion.)--A prejudiced old prig!

