LADY ANNA.

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

In Two Volumes.

VOL. I.

London: Chapman and Hall, 193, Piccadilly. 1874.

[All rights reserved.]

London: Printed by Virtue and Co., City Road.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

       I. THE EARLY HISTORY OF LADY LOVEL.
      II. THE EARL'S WILL.
     III. LADY ANNA.
      IV. THE TAILOR OF KESWICK.
       V. THE SOLICITOR-GENERAL MAKES A PROPOSITION.
      VI. YOXHAM RECTORY.
     VII. THE SOLICITOR-GENERAL PERSEVERES.
    VIII. IMPOSSIBLE!
      IX. IT ISN'T LAW.
       X. THE FIRST INTERVIEW.
      XI. IT IS TOO LATE.
     XII. HAVE THEY SURRENDERED?
    XIII. NEW FRIENDS.
     XIV. THE EARL ARRIVES.
      XV. WHARFEDALE.
     XVI. FOR EVER.
    XVII. THE JOURNEY HOME.
   XVIII. TOO HEAVY FOR SECRETS.
     XIX. LADY ANNA RETURNS TO LONDON.
      XX. LADY ANNA'S RECEPTION.
     XXI. DANIEL AND THE LAWYER.
    XXII. THERE IS A GULF FIXED.
   XXIII. BEDFORD SQUARE.
    XXIV. THE DOG IN THE MANGER.

LADY ANNA.

CHAPTER I.

THE EARLY HISTORY OF LADY LOVEL.

Women have often been hardly used by men, but perhaps no harder usage, no fiercer cruelty was
ever experienced by a woman than that which fell to the lot of Josephine Murray from the hands
of Earl Lovel, to whom she was married in the parish church of Applethwaite,--a parish without
a village, lying among the mountains of Cumberland,--on the 1st of June, 181--. That her marriage
was valid according to all the forms of the Church, if Lord Lovel were then capable of marrying,
no one ever doubted; nor did the Earl ever allege that it was not so. Lovel Grange is a small
house, surrounded by a small domain,--small as being the residence of a rich nobleman, lying
among the mountains which separate Cumberland from Westmoreland, about ten miles from Keswick,
very lovely, from the brightness of its own green sward and the luxuriance of its wild woodland,
from the contiguity of overhanging mountains, and from the beauty of Lovel Tarn, a small lake
belonging to the property, studded with little islands, each of which is covered with its own
thicket of hollies, birch, and dwarfed oaks. The house itself is poor, ill built, with straggling
passages and low rooms, and is a sombre, ill-omened looking place. When Josephine Murray was
brought there as a bride she thought it to be very sombre and ill-omened; but she loved the
lakes and mountains, and dreamed of some vague mysterious joy of life which was to come to
her from the wildness of her domicile.

I fear that she had no other ground, firmer than this, on which to found her hopes of happiness.
She could not have thought Lord Lovel to be a good man when she married him, and it can hardly
be said that she loved him. She was then twenty-four years old, and he had counted double as
many years. She was very beautiful, dark, with large, bold, blue eyes, with hair almost black,
tall, well made, almost robust, a well-born, brave, ambitious woman, of whom it must be acknowledged
that she thought it very much to be the wife of a lord. Though our story will be concerned
much with her sufferings, the record of her bridal days may be very short. It is with struggles
that came to her in after years that we shall be most concerned, and the reader, therefore,
need be troubled with no long description of Josephine Murray as she was when she became the
Countess Lovel. It is hoped that her wrongs may be thought worthy of sympathy,--and may be
felt in some sort to atone for the ignoble motives of her marriage.

The Earl, when he found his bride, had been living almost in solitude for a twelvemonth. Among
the neighbouring gentry in the lake country he kept no friendly relations. His property there
was small, and his character was evil. He was an English earl, and as such known in some unfamiliar
fashion to those who know all earls; but he was a man never seen in Parliament, who had spent
the greater part of his manhood abroad, who had sold estates in other counties, converting
unentailed acres into increased wealth, but wealth of a kind much less acceptable to the general
English aristocrat than that which comes direct from land. Lovel Grange was his only remaining
English property, and when in London he had rooms at an hotel. He never entertained, and he
never accepted hospitality. It was known of him that he was very rich, and men said that he
was mad. Such was the man whom Josephine Murray had chosen to marry because he was an earl.

He had found her near Keswick, living with her father in a pretty cottage looking down upon
Derwentwater,--a thorough gentleman, for Captain Murray had come of the right Murrays;--and
thence he had carried her to Lovel Grange. She had brought with her no penny of fortune, and
no settlement had been made on her. Her father, who was then an old man, had mildly expostulated;
but the ambition of the daughter had prevailed, and the marriage was accomplished. The beautiful
young woman was carried off as a bride. It will be unnecessary to relate what efforts had been
made to take her away from her father's house without bridal honours; but it must be told that
the Earl was a man who had never yet spared a woman in his lust. It had been the rule, almost
the creed of his life, that woman was made to gratify the appetite of man, and that the man
is but a poor creature who does not lay hold of the sweetness that is offered to him. He had
so lived as to teach himself that those men who devote themselves to their wives, as a wife
devotes herself to her husband, are the poor lubberly clods of creation, who had lacked the
power to reach the only purpose of living which could make life worth having. Women had been
to him a prey, as the fox is a prey to the huntsman and the salmon to the angler. But he had
acquired great skill in his sport, and could pursue his game with all the craft which experience
will give. He could look at a woman as though he saw all heaven in her eyes, and could listen
to her as though the music of the spheres was to be heard in her voice. Then he could whisper
words which, to many women, were as the music of the spheres, and he could persevere, abandoning
all other pleasures, devoting himself to the one wickedness with a perseverance which almost
made success certain. But with Josephine Murray he could be successful on no other terms than
those which enabled her to walk out of the church with him as Countess Lovel.

She had not lived with him six months before he told her that the marriage was no marriage,
and that she was--his mistress. There was an audacity about the man which threw aside all fear
of the law, and which was impervious to threats and interference. He assured her that he loved
her, and that she was welcome to live with him; but that she was not his wife, and that the
child which she bore could not be the heir to his title, and could claim no heirship to his
property. He did love her,--having found her to be a woman of whose company he had not tired
in six months. He was going back to Italy, and he offered to take her with him,--but he could
not, he said, permit the farce of her remaining at Lovel Grange and calling herself the Countess
Lovel. If she chose to go with him to Palermo, where he had a castle, and to remain with him
in his yacht, she might for the present travel under the name of his wife. But she must know
that she was not his wife. She was only his mistress.

Of course she told her father. Of course she invoked every Murray in and out of Scotland. Of
course there were many threats. A duel was fought up near London, in which Lord Lovel consented
to be shot at twice,--declaring that after that he did not think that the circumstances of
the case required that he should be shot at any more. In the midst of this a daughter was born
to her and her father died,--during which time she was still allowed to live at Lovel Grange.
But what was it expedient that she should do? He declared that he had a former wife when he
married her, and that therefore she was not and could not be his wife. Should she institute
a prosecution against him for bigamy, thereby acknowledging that she was herself no wife and
that her child was illegitimate? From such evidence as she could get, she believed that the
Italian woman whom the Earl in former years had married had died before her own marriage. The
Earl declared that the Countess, the real Countess, had not paid her debt to nature, till some
months after the little ceremony which had taken place in Applethwaite Church. In a moment
of weakness Josephine fell at his feet and asked him to renew the ceremony. He stooped over
her, kissed her, and smiled. "My pretty child," he said, "why should I do that?" He never kissed
her again.

What should she do? Before she had decided, he was in his yacht sailing to Palermo;--sailing
no doubt not alone. What should she do? He had left her an income,--sufficient for the cast-off
mistress of an Earl,--some few hundreds a year, on condition that she would quietly leave Lovel
Grange, cease to call herself a Countess, and take herself and her bairn,--whither she would.
Every abode of sin in London was open to her for what he cared. But what should she do? It
seemed to her to be incredible that so great a wrong should befall her, and that the man should
escape from her and be free from punishment,--unless she chose to own the baseness of her own
position by prosecuting him for bigamy. The Murrays were not very generous in their succour,
as the old man had been much blamed for giving his daughter to one of whom all the world knew
nothing but evil. One Murray had fired two shots on her behalf, in answer to each one of which
the Earl had fired into the air; but beyond this the Murrays could do nothing. Josephine herself
was haughty and proud, conscious that her rank was greater than that of any of the Murrays
with whom she came in contact. But what should she do?

The Earl had been gone five years, sailing about the world she knew not where, when at last
she determined to institute a prosecution for bigamy. During these years she was still living
at the Grange, with her child, and the Courts of Law had allotted her some sum by way of alimony
till her cause should be decided; but upon this alimony she found it very difficult to lay
her hands,--quite impossible to lay her hands upon the entirety of it. And then it came to
pass that she was eaten up by lawyers and tradesmen, and fell into bad repute as asserting
that claims made against her, should legally be made against the very man whom she was about
to prosecute because she was not his wife. And this went on till further life at Lovel Grange
became impossible to her.

In those days there was living in Keswick a certain Mr. Thomas Thwaite, a tailor, who by degrees
had taken a strong part in denouncing the wrongs to which Lady Lovel had been subjected. He
was a powerful, sturdy man, with good means for his position, a well-known Radical in a county
in which Radicals have never been popular, and in which fifty years ago they were much rarer
than they are now. At this time Keswick and its vicinities were beginning to be known as the
abodes of poets, and Thomas Thwaite was acquainted with Southey and Wordsworth. He was an intelligent,
up-standing, impulsive man, who thought well of his own position in the world, and who could
speak his mind. He was tall, massive, and square; tender-hearted and very generous; and he
hated the Earl of Lovel with all his heart. Once the two men had met since the story of the
Countess's wrongs had become known, and the tailor had struck the Earl to the ground. This
had occurred as the Earl was leaving Lovel Grange, and when he was starting on his long journey.
The scene took place after he had parted from his Countess,--whom he never was to see again.
He rose to his feet and rushed at the tailor; but the two were separated, and the Earl thought
it best to go on upon his journey. Nothing further was done as to the blow, and many years
rolled by before the Earl came back to Cumberland.

It became impossible for the Countess and her daughter, the young Lady Anna as she was usually
called, to remain at Lovel Grange, and they were taken to the house of Mr. Thwaite, in Keswick,
as a temporary residence. At this time the Countess was in debt, and already there were lawsuits
as to the practicability of obtaining payment of those debts from the husband's estate. And
as soon as it was determined that the prosecution for bigamy should be instituted, the confusion
in this respect was increased. The Countess ceased to call herself a countess, as she certainly
would not be a countess should she succeed in proving the Earl to have been guilty. And had
he been guilty of bigamy, the decree under which alimony was assigned to her would become void.
Should she succeed, she would be a penniless unmarried female with a daughter, her child would
be unfathered and base, and he,--as far as she could see,--would be beyond the reach of punishment.
But, in truth, she and her friend the tailor were not in quest of success. She and all her
friends believed that the Earl had committed no such crime. But if he were acquitted, then
would her claim to be called Lady Lovel, and to enjoy the appanages of her rank, be substantiated.
Or, at least, something would have been done towards substantiating those claims. But during
this time she called herself Mrs. Murray, and the little Lady Anna was called Anna Murray.

It added much to the hardship of the woman's case that public sympathy in distant parts of
the country,--up in London, and in southern counties, and even among a portion of the gentry
in Cumberland and Westmoreland,--did not go with her. She had married without due care. Some
men said,--and many women repeated the story,--that she had known of the existence of the former
wife, when she had married the Earl. She had run into debt, and then repudiated her debts.
She was now residing in the house of a low radical tailor, who had assaulted the man she called
her husband; and she was living under her maiden name. Tales were told of her which were utterly
false,--as when it was said that she drank. Others were reported which had in them some grains
of truth,--as that she was violent, stiff-necked, and vindictive. Had they said of her that
it had become her one religion to assert her daughter's right,--per fas aut nefas,--to assert
it by right or wrong; to do justice to her child let what injustice might be done to herself
or others,--then the truth would have been spoken.

The case dragged itself on slowly, and little Anna Murray was a child of nine years old when
at last the Earl was acquitted of the criminal charge which had been brought against him. During
all this time he had been absent. Even had there been a wish to bring him personally into court,
the law would have been powerless to reach him. But there was no such wish. It had been found
impossible to prove the former marriage, which had taken place in Sicily;--or if not impossible,
at least no adequate proof was forthcoming. There was no real desire that there should be such
proof. The Earl's lawyers abstained, as far as they could abstain, from taking any steps in
the matter. They spent what money was necessary, and the Attorney-General of the day defended
him. In doing so, the Attorney-General declared that he had nothing to do with the Earl's treatment
of the lady who now called herself Mrs. Murray. He knew nothing of the circumstances of that
connection, and would not travel beyond his brief. He was there to defend Earl Lovel on a charge
of bigamy. This he did successfully, and the Earl was acquitted. Then, in court, the counsel
for the wife declared that his client would again call herself Lady Lovel.

But it was not so easy to induce other people to call her Lady Lovel.

And now not only was she much hampered by money difficulties, but so also was the tailor. But
Thomas Thwaite never for a moment slackened in his labours to make good the position of the
woman whom he had determined to succour; and for another and a longer period of eight years
the battle went on. It went on very slowly, as is the wont with such battles; and very little
way was made. The world, as a rule, did not believe that she who now again called herself the
Countess Lovel was entitled to that name. The Murrays, her own people,--as far as they were
her own people,--had been taught to doubt her claim. If she were a countess why had she thrown
herself into the arms of an old tailor? Why did she let her daughter play with the tailor's
child,--if, in truth, that daughter was the Lady Anna? Why, above all things, was the name
of the Lady Anna allowed to be mentioned, as it was mentioned, in connection with that of Daniel
Thwaite, the tailor's son?

During these eight weary years Lady Lovel,--for so she shall be called,--lived in a small cottage
about a mile from Keswick, on the road to Grassmere and Ambleside, which she rented from quarter
to quarter. She still obtained a certain amount of alimony, which, however, was dribbled out
to her through various sieves, and which reached her with protestations as to the impossibility
of obtaining anything like the moderate sum which had been awarded to her. And it came at last
to be the case that she hardly knew what she was struggling to obtain. It was, of course, her
object that all the world should acknowledge her to be the Countess Lovel, and her daughter
to be the Lady Anna. But all the world could not be made to do this by course of law. Nor could
the law make her lord come home and live with her, even such a cat and dog life as must in
such case have been hers. Her money rights were all that she could demand;--and she found it
to be impossible to get anybody to tell her what were her money rights. To be kept out of the
poorhouse seemed to be all that she could claim. But the old tailor was true to her,--swearing
that she should even yet become Countess Lovel in very truth.

Then, of a sudden, she heard one day,--that Earl Lovel was again at the Grange, living there
with a strange woman.

CHAPTER II.

THE EARL'S WILL.

Not a word had been heard in Keswick of the proposed return of the old lord,--for the Earl
was now an old man,--past his sixtieth year, and in truth with as many signs of age as some
men bear at eighty. The life which he had led no doubt had had its allurements, but it is one
which hardly admits of a hale and happy evening. Men who make women a prey, prey also on themselves.
But there he was, back at Lovel Grange, and no one knew why he had come, nor whence, nor how.
To Lovel Grange in those days, now some forty years ago, there was no road for wheels but that
which ran through Keswick. Through Keswick he had passed in the middle of the night, taking
on the post-horses which he had brought with him from Grassmere, so that no one in the town
should see him and his companion. But it was soon known that he was there, and known also that
he had a companion. For months he resided thus, and no one saw him but the domestics who waited
upon him. But rumours got abroad as to his conduct, and people through the county declared
that Earl Lovel was a maniac. Still his property was in his own control, and he did what it
listed him to do.

As soon as men knew that he was in the land, claim after claim was made upon him for money
due on behalf of his wife, and loudest among the claimants was Thomas Thwaite, the tailor.
He was loudest and fiercest among the claimants, but was loud and fierce not in enmity to his
old friend the Countess, but with a firm resolve to make the lord pay the only price of his
wickedness which could be exacted from him. And if the Earl could be made to pay the claims
against him which were made by his wife's creditors, then would the law, so far, have decided
that the woman was his wife. No answer was made to any letter addressed to the Earl, and no
one calling at the Grange could obtain speech or even sight of the noble owner. The lord's
steward at the Grange referred all comers to the lord's attorneys in London, and the lord's
attorneys simply repeated the allegation that the lady was not the lord's wife. At last there
came tidings that an inquiry was to be made as to the state of the lord's health and the state
of the lord's mind, on behalf of Frederic Lovel, the distant heir to the title. Let that question
of the lord's marriage with Josephine Murray go as it might, Frederic Lovel, who had never
seen his far-away cousin, must be the future earl. Of that there was no doubt;--and new inquiries
were to be made. But it might well be that the interest of the young heir would be more deeply
involved in the marriage question than in other matters concerning the family. Lovel Grange
and the few mountain farms attached to the Cumberland estate must become his, let the frantic
Earl do what damage he might to those who bore his name; but the bulk of the property, the
wealth of the Lovels, the great riches which had enabled this mighty lord to live as a beast
of prey among his kind, were at his own disposal. He had one child certainly, the Lady Anna,
who would inherit it all were the father to die intestate, and were the marriage proved. The
young heir and those near to him altogether disbelieved the marriage,--as was natural. They
had never seen her who now called herself the Countess, but who for some years after her child
was born had called herself Mrs. Murray,--who had been discarded by her own relations, and
had taken herself to live with a country tailor. As years had rolled by the memory of what
had really occurred in Applethwaite Church had become indistinct; and, though the reader knows
that that marriage was capable of easy proof,--that there would have been but little difficulty
had the only difficulty consisted in proving that,--the young heir and the distant Lovels were
not assured of it. Their interest was adverse, and they were determined to disbelieve. But
the Earl might, and probably would, leave all his wealth to a stranger. He had never in any
way noticed his heir. He cared for none that bore his name. Those ties in the world which we
call love, and deem respectable, and regard as happy, because they have to do with marriage
and blood relationship as established by all laws since the days of Moses, were odious to him
and ridiculous in his sight, because all obligations were distasteful to him,--and all laws,
except those which preserved to him the use of his own money. But now there came up the great
question whether he was mad or sane. It was at once rumoured that he was about to leave the
country, and fly back to Sicily. Then it was announced that he was dead.

