The Indians lodged us in an empty cane-hut, where they spread mats upon the ground, and we
made pillows of our saddles. We were soon tired of looking up at the stars through the chinks
in the roof, and slept till long after sunrise. Then the Indians rafted us across the second
river; and we rode on to Jalapa, having accomplished our horseback journey of nearly three
hundred miles with but one accident, the death of a horse, the four-pound one. He had been
rather overworked, but would most likely have got through, had we not stopped the last night
at the Indian ranchos, where there was no forage but green maize leaves, a food our beasts
were not accustomed to. It seems our men gave him too much of this, and then allowed him to
drink excessively; and next morning he grew weaker and weaker, and died not long after we reached
Jalapa. Our other two horses were rather thin, but otherwise in good condition; and the horse-dealers,
after no end of diplomacy on both sides, knocked under to our threat of sending them back to
Mexico in charge of Antonio, and gave us within a pound or two of what they had cost us. There,
is a good deal of trading in horses done at Jalapa, where travellers coming down from Mexico
sell their beasts, which are disposed of at great prices to other travellers coming up from
the coast. Between here and Vera Cruz, people prefer travelling in the Diligence, or in some
covered carriage, to exposing themselves to the sun in the hot and pestilential region of the
coast.

Jalapa is a pleasant city among the hills, in a country of forests, green turf, and running
streams. It is the very paradise of botanists; and its products include a wonderful variety
of trees and flowers, from the apple- and pear-trees of England to the mameis and zapotes of
tropical America, and the brilliant orchids which are the ornament of our hot-houses. The name
of the town itself has a botanical celebrity, for in the neighbouring forests grows the Purga
de Jalapa, which we have shortened into jalap.

A day's journey above it, lies the limit of eternal snow, upon the peak of Orizaba; a day's
journey below it is Vera Cruz, the city of the yellow fever, surrounded by burning sands and
poisonous exhalations, in a district where, during the hot months now commencing, the thermometer
scarcely ever descends below 80°, day or night. Jalapa hardly knows summer or winter, heat
or cold. The upper current of hot air from the Gulf of Mexico, highly charged with aqueous
vapour, strikes the mountains about this level, and forms the belt of clouds that we have already
crossed more than once during our journey. Jalapa is in this cloudy zone, and the sky is seldom
clear there. It is hardly hotter in summer than in England, and not even hot enough for the
mosquitoes, which are not to be found here though they swarm in the plain below. This warm
damp climate changes but little in the course of the year. There are no seasons, in our sense
of the word, for spring lasts through the year.

We walked out on the first afternoon of our arrival; and sat on stone seats on a piece of green
turf surrounded by trees, that reminded us pleasantly of the village-greens of England. There
we talked with the children of an English acquaintance who had been settled for many years
in the town, and had married a Mexican lady. They were fine lads; but, as very often happens
in such cases, they could only speak the language of the country. Nothing can show more clearly
how thoroughly a foreigner yields to the influences around him, when he settles in a country
and marries among its people. An Englishman's own character, for instance, may remain to some
extent; but his children are scarcely English in language or in feeling, and in the next generation
there is nothing foreign about his descendants but the name.

When we reached our hotel it was about sunset, and the heavy dew had wetted us through, as
though we had been walking in the rain. This was no exceptional occurrence. All the year round
such dews fall morning and evening, as well as almost daily showers of rain. The climate is
too warm for this dampness to injure health, as it would in our colder regions. To us, who
had just left the bracing air of the high plateaus, it seemed close and relaxing; but the inhabitants
are certainly strong and healthy, and one can imagine the enjoyment which the white inhabitants
of Vera Cruz must feel, when they can get away from that city of pestilence into the pure air
of the mountains.

Our quarters were at the Veracruzana, where we occupied a great whitewashed room. A large grated
window opened into the garden, where the armadillo was fastened to a tree by a long string,
and had soon dug a deep hole with his powerful fore-claws, as the manner of the creature is.
The necessity of supplying the "little man in armour" with insects for his daily food gave
us some idea of the amazing abundance and variety of the insects of the district. We caught
creeping things innumerable in the garden, but narrowly escaped being stung by a small scorpion;
and therefore delegated the task to an old Indian, who walked out into the fields with an earthen
pot, and returned with it full of insects in about half an hour. We reckoned that there were
over fifty species in the pot.

Many of the houses and Indian huts were adorned with collections of insects pinned on the walls
in patterns, among which figured scorpions some three inches long; and the centre-ornament
was usually a tarantula, said to be one of the most poisonous creatures of the tropics, a monstrous
spider, whose dark grey body and legs are covered with hairs. A fine specimen will have a body
about as large as a small hen's egg, and, with his legs in their natural position, will just
stand in a cheese-plate. The Boots of the hotel went out and caught a fine scorpion for our
amusement; he brought it into our room wrapped in a piece of brown paper, and was on the point
of letting it out on our table for us to see it run. We protested against this, and had it
put into a tumbler and covered it up with a book.

The inner patio of the hotel was surrounded with the usual arcade, into which the rooms opened.
Close to our door was a long table, with a green cloth, where the Jalapenians were constantly
playing monte, from nine in the morning till late at night. All classes were represented there,
from the muleteer who came to lose his hard-earned dollars, to the rich shopkeepers and planters
of the town and neighbourhood.

I went early one afternoon to the house of the principal agent for the Vera Cruz carriers,
to arrange for sending down our heavy packages to the coast. There was no one at the office
but a girl. I enquired for the master--"Está jugando,"--"He is playing," she said. I need not
have gone so far to look for him, for he was sitting just outside our bedroom door, and indeed
had been there all day. Before he condescended to arrange our business, he waited to see the
fate of the dollar he had just put down, and which I was glad to see he lost.

Jalapa was not always the stagnant place it is now. Its pleasant houses and gardens date from
a period when it was a town of some importance. In old times the only practicable road from
Vera Cruz to Mexico passed this way; and Jalapa was the entrepôt where the merchants had their
warehouses, and from whence the trains of mules distributed the European merchandise from the
coast to the different markets of the country. By this arrangement, the carrying from the coast
was done by a small number of muleteers, who were seasoned to the climate, while the great
mass of traders and carriers were not obliged to descend from the healthy region. This was
of the more importance, because, though the pure Indians are not liable to the attacks of yellow
fever, the disease is as deadly to the other inhabitants of the high lands as to Europeans;
and even those of the mestizos who have the least admixture of white blood are subject to it.
Of late years, this system has been given up, and the carriers from the high lands go down
to the coast to fetch their loads, and every year they leave some of their number in the church-yards
of the City of the Dead; while many others, though they recover from the fever, never regain
their former health and strength. The high-road to Mexico now goes by Orizaba, so that the
importance of Jalapa as a trading-place has almost ceased.

Our Mexican journey was now all but finished, and I left my companion here, and took the Diligence
to Vera Cruz, to meet the West India Mail-packet. Mr. Christy followed a day or two later,
and went to the United States. We dismissed our two servants, Martin and Antonio. Martin invested
his wages in a package of tobacco, which he proposed to carry home on his horse, travelling
by night along unfrequented mountain-paths, where custom-house officers seldom penetrate. We
never heard any more of him; but no doubt he got safe home, for he was perfectly competent
to take care of himself, and he probably made a very good thing of his journey. It was quite
with regret that we parted from him, for he was a most sensible, useful fellow, with a continual
flow of high spirits, and no end of stories of his experiences in smuggling, and hunting wild
cattle in the tierra caliente, in which two adventurous occupations most of his life had been
passed. In his dealings with us, he was honesty itself, notwithstanding his equivocal profession.

We offered Antonio a cheque on Mexico for his wages, as he was going back there, but he said
he would rather have hard dollars. We paid his fare to Mexico by the Diligence, and gave him
his money, telling him at the same time, that he was a fool for his pains. He started next
morning; and we heard, a month or two later, that the coach was stopped the same afternoon
in the plains of Perote, and Antonio was robbed not only of his money but even of his jacket
and serape, and reached Mexico penniless and half-naked. He was always a silly fellow, and
his last exploit was worthy of him.

Mr. Christy sat up till daybreak to see me off, filling up his time by writing letters and
pressing plants. When I was gone, he lay down in his bed, in rather a dreamy state of mind,
looking up at the ceiling. There was a large beam just above his head, and at one side of it
a hole, which struck him as being a suitable place for a scorpion to come out of. This idea
had come into his head from the sight of the specimen in the tumbler on the table, who had
with great difficulty been drowned in aguardiente. Presently something moved in the hole, and
the spectator below instantly became wide awake. Then came out a claw and a head, and finally
the body and tail of a very fine scorpion, two inches and a half long. It was rather an awkward
moment, for it was not safe to move suddenly, for fear of startling the creature, whose footing
seemed anything but secure; and if he fell, he would naturally sting whatever he might come
in contact with. However, he met with no accident on his way, and getting into another hole,
about a yard off, he drew up his tail after him and disappeared. Mr. Christy slipped out of
his bed with a sense of considerable relief; and having ascertained that there were no holes
in the ceiling above the bed on the other side of the room, he turned in there, and went comfortably
to sleep.

My only companion in the Diligence was a German shopman from Vera Cruz, who was sociable, but
not of an instructive turn of conversation. When we had descended for a few hours, the heat
became intolerable. Scarcely any habitation but a few Indian cane-huts by the way-side, with
bananas and palm-trees. We stopped, about three in the afternoon, at a rancho in a small village,
and did not start again until next morning, a little before day-break. Negroes and people of
negro descent began to abound in this congenial climate. I remember especially the waiting-maid
at the rancho, who was a "white negress," as they are called. Her hair and features showed
her African origin; but her hair was like white wool, and her face and hands were as colourless
as those of a dead body. This animated corpse was healthy enough, however; and this peculiarity
of the skin is, it seems, not very uncommon.

The coast-regions through which I was passing abound in horned cattle, but they are mostly
far away from the high-roads. In spite of the intense heat of the climate they thrive as well
as in the higher lands. Some are tolerably tame, and are kept within bounds by the vaqueros;
but the greater proportion, numbering tens of thousands, roam wild about the country. In comparison
with these cattle of the tierra caliente, the fiercest beasts of the plateaus are safe and
quiet creatures. The only way of bringing them into the corral is by using tame animals for
decoys, just as wild elephants are caught.

Our man Martin, who had once been a vaquero on the Vera Cruz coast, used to look upon the bulls
of the high lands with great contempt. If you chase them they run away, he said. If you lazo
a bull of the hot country, you have to gallop off with all your might, with the toro close
at your heels; and, if the horse falls, it may cost his life or his rider's.

We thus find the horned cattle flourishing at every elevation, from the sea-level to the mountain-pastures
ten thousand feet above it. Horses and sheep show less adaptability to this variety of climates.
The horses and mules come mostly from the States of the North, at a level of from 5,000 to
8,000 feet; that remarkable country of which Humboldt's observation gives us the best idea,
when he says that, although there are no made roads, wheel-carriages can travel distances of
a thousand miles over gently-undulating prairies, without meeting any obstruction on the way.

Numbers of sheep are reared in the mountains, principally for the sake of the tallow, for the
consumption of tallow-candles in the mines is enormous. The owners scarcely care at all for
the rest of the animal; and popular scandal accuses the sheep-farmers of driving their flocks
straight into the melting-coppers, without going through the preliminary ceremony of killing
them. People told us that the tallow made in the cold regions loses its consistency when brought
down into hotter climates, but we had no means of ascertaining the truth of this.

Artificial lighting by means of tallow was not known to the ancient Mexicans, who could not
indeed have procured tallow except from the fat of deer and smaller animals.

Bernal Diaz tells how the Spanish invaders used to dress their wounds with "Indian Ointment."
He explains the nature of this preparation in another place. The Spaniards could get no oil
in the country, nor anything else to make salve with, so they took some fat Indian who had
just been killed in battle, and simply boiled him down.

Our ride next morning was but a few hours, the journey being so divided in order that the passengers
may reach Vera Cruz before the heat of the day begins. We passed over a dreary district, generally
too dry for anything but cactus and acacias, but now and then, when a little water was to be
found, displaying clumps of bamboos with their elegant feathery tufts. Then the railway took
us through the dismal downs, with their swamps and sand-hills, and so into Vera Cruz.

The English merchants we had already made acquaintance with were as kind and hospitable as
ever, and I found an Englishman, whom we had known before, going as far as Havana by the same
packet. The yellow fever was unusually late this year, and, though June had begun, there were
but few cases. We heard afterwards that it set in a week or two after our departure, and by
its extraordinary severity made ample amends for the lateness of its arrival.

After sunset, the air was alive with mosquitos, and the floors of the hotel swarmed with cockroaches.
The armadillo took quite naturally to the latter creatures, and crunched them up as fast as
we could catch them for him. I was surprised to find that our word "cockroaches" does not come
from the German stock, like most of our names for insects and small creatures, but from the
Latin side of the house. The Spanish waiter called them cucarachas, and the French ones coqueraches.
The history of the armadillo ends unfortunately: for some days he seemed to take quite kindly
to the diet of bits of meat which we had to put him on, on shipboard, but he fell sick at Havana,
and died.

My late companion travelled up into the Northern States, went to the Indian assembly at Manitoulin
Island, paid a visit to various tribes of Red Men in the Hudson's Bay Territory--as yet unmissionized,
carried away in triumph the big medicine-drum I have already spoken of, and saw and did many
other things not to be related here. One sight that he saw, some months later, reminded him
of the wild country where we had travelled together. He was in Iowa City, a little town of
a year or two's growth, out in the prairie States of the Far West. As he stood one morning
in the outskirts, among the plank-houses and half-made roads, there came a solitary horseman
riding in. Evidently he had come from the Mexican frontier, a thousand miles and more away
across the plains; and no doubt, his waggons and the rest of his party were behind him on the
road, beyond the distant horizon of the prairie. By his face he was American, but his costume
was the dress of old Mexico, the leather jacket and trousers, the broad white hat and huge
jingling spurs. His lazo hung in front of his high-peaked saddle, and his well-worn serape
was rolled up behind him like a trooper's cloak. As he approached the town, he spurred his
jaded beast, who broke into the old familiar paso of the Mexican plains. "It was my last sight
of Mexico," said my companion. He saluted the horseman in Spanish, and the well-known words
of welcome made the grim man's haggard sunburnt features relax into a smile as he returned
the salutation and rode on.

As for myself, my voyage home was short and unadventurous. From Vera Cruz to Havana, most of
my companions were Mexican refugees who had been turned out of the country for being mixed
up with Haro's revolution or Santa Ana's intrigues. They were showily got-up men, elaborately
polite, and with much to say for themselves; but every now and then some casual remark showed
what stuff they were made of, and I pitied more than ever the unfortunate countries whose political
destinies depend on the intrigues of these adventurers.

In the hot land-locked bay of St. Thomas's we, with the contents of eight or nine more steamers,
were shifted into the great steamer bound homeward. I went ashore with an old German gentleman,
and walked about the streets. St. Thomas's is a Danish island, and a free port, that is, a
smuggling depôt for the rest of the West India islands, much as Gibraltar is for the Mediterranean.
It is a stifling place, full of mosquitos and yellow fever, and the confusion of tongues reigns
there even more than in Gibraltar, for the blacks in the streets all speak three or four languages,
and the shopkeepers six or seven.

We were a strange mixture on board the 'Atrato', over two hundred of us. Peruvians and Chilians
from across the isthmus, Spaniards and Cubans, black gentlemen from Hayti, French colonists
from Martinique, but English preponderating above all other nationalities. One or two governors
of small islands, with their families, maintaining the dignity of Government House, at least
as far as Southampton, and unapproachable by common mortals. Army men from West India stations,
who appeared to spend their mornings in ordering the wine for dinner, and their evenings in
abusing it when they had drunk it. West India planters, who thought it was rather hard that
the Anti-slavery Society, after ruining them and their plantations, should moreover insist
on their believing themselves to be great gainers by the change. We were all crowded, hot,
and uncomfortable, and showed our worst side, but as we neared England better influences got
the ascendant again.

It was pleasant to breathe a cooler air, and to feel that I was getting back to my own country
and my own people; but with this feeling there was mixed some regret for the beautiful scenes
I had left. The evenings of our latitudes seemed poor when we lost the gorgeous sunsets of
the tropics, and the sea alive with luminous creatures. When I came on deck one evening and
missed the brightest ornament of the sky--the Southern Cross, I felt that I had left the tropics,
and that all my efforts to realize the life of the last half-year would produce but a vague
and shadowy picture.

Since we left Mexico, I have not cared to follow very accurately even the newspaper intelligence
of what has been and still is going on there. It is a pitiable history. Continual wars and
revolutions, utter insecurity of life and property, the Indians burning down the haciendas
in the South and turning out the white people, the roads on the plains impassable on account
of deserters and robbers; sometimes no practical government at all, then two or three at once,
who raise armies and fight a little sometimes, but generally confine themselves to plundering
the peaceable inhabitants. An army besieges the capital for months, but appears to do nothing
but cut the water off from the aqueducts, shoot stragglers, and levy contributions. One leader
raises a forced loan among the foreign residents, and imprisons or expels those who do not
submit. The leader on the other side does the same in his part of the country, putting the
British merchant in prisons where a fortnight would be a fair average life for an European,
and threatening him with summary courtmartial and execution if he does not pay.

London newspapers dwell on these details, and tell us that we may learn from the condition
of this unfortunate country how useless are democratic forms among a people incapable of liberty,
and that very weak governments can commit all sorts of crimes with impunity, from the fact
that they have no official existence which foreign powers can recognize; and various other
weighty moral lessons, which must be highly edifying to our countrymen in the Republic, who
are meanwhile left pretty much to shift for themselves.

All this time the United States are steadily advancing; and the destiny of the country is gradually
accomplishing itself. That its total absorption must come, sooner or later, we can hardly doubt.
The chief difficulty seems to be that the American constitution will not exactly suit the case.
The Republic laid down the right of each citizen to his share in the government of the country
as a universal law, founded on indefeasible lights of humanity, fundamental laws of nature,
and what not, making, it is true, some slight exceptions with regard to red and black men.
The Mexicans, or at least the white and half-caste Mexicans, will be a difficulty. Their claims
to citizenship are unquestionable, if Mexico were made a State of the Union; and, as everybody
knows, they are totally incapable of governing themselves, which they must be left to do under
the constitutional system of the United States; moreover, it is certain that American citizens
would never allow even the whitest of the Mexicans to be placed on a footing of equality with
themselves. Supposing these difficulties got over by a Protectorate, an armed occupation, or
some similar contrivance, Mexico will undergo a great change. There will be roads and even
rail-roads, some security for life and property, liberty of opinion, a nourishing commerce,
a rapidly increasing population, and a variety of good things. Every intelligent Mexican must
wish for an event so greatly to the advantage of his country and of the world in general.

Some of our good friends in Mexico have bought land on the American frontier by the hundred
square leagues, and can point out patches upon the map of the world as large as Scotland or
Ireland--as their private property. What their gains will be when enterprising western men
begin to bring the country under cultivation, it is not an easy matter to realize.

As for ourselves individually, we may be excused for cherishing a lurking kindness for the
quaint, picturesque manners and customs of Mexico, as yet un-Americanized; and for rejoicing
that it was our fortune to travel there before the coming change, when its most curious peculiarities
and its very language must yield before foreign influences.

APPENDIX.

       *       *       *       *       *

I. THE MANUFACTURE OF OBSIDIAN KNIVES, ETC. (Note to p. 97.)

Some of the old Spanish writers on Mexico give a tolerably full account of the manner in which
the obsidian knives, &c., were made by the Aztecs. It will be seen that it only modifies in
one particular the theory we had formed by mere inspection as to the way in which these objects
were made, which is given at p.97; that is, they were cracked off by pressure, and not, as
we conjectured, by a blow of some hard substance.

Torquemada (Monarquía Indiana, Seville, 1615) says; (free translation) "They had, and still
have, workmen who make knives of a certain black stone or flint, which it is a most wonderful
and admirable thing to see them make out of the stone; and the ingenuity which invented this
art is much to be praised. They are made and got out of the stone (if one can explain it) in
this manner. One of these Indian workmen sits down upon the ground, and takes a piece of this
black stone, which is like jet, and hard as flint, and is a stone which might be called precious,
more beautiful and brilliant than alabaster or jasper, so much so that of it are made tablets[24]
and mirrors. The piece they take is about 8 inches long or rather more, and as thick as one's
leg or rather less, and cylindrical; they have a stick as large as the shaft of a lance, and
3 cubits or rather more in length; and at the end of it they fasten firmly another piece of
wood, 8 inches long, to give more weight to this part; then, pressing their naked feet together,
they hold the stone as with a pair of pincers or the vice of a carpenter's bench. They take
the stick (which is cut off smooth at the end) with both hands, and set it well home against
the edge of the front of the stone (y ponenlo avesar con el canto de la frente de la piedra)
which also is cut smooth in that part; and then they press it against their breast, and with
the force of the pressure there flies off a knife, with its point, and edge on each tide, as
neatly as if one were to make them of a turnip with a sharp knife, or of iron in the fire.
Then they sharpen it on a stone, using a hone to give it a very fine edge; and in a very short
time these workmen will make more than twenty knives in the aforesaid manner. They come out
of the same shape as our barbers' lancets, except that they have a rib up the middle, and have
a slight graceful curve towards the point. They will cut and shave the hair the first time
they are used, at the first cut nearly as well as a steel razor, but they lose their edge at
the second cut; and so, to finish shaving one's beard or hair, one after another has to be
used; though indeed they are cheap, and spoiling them is of no consequence. Many Spaniards,
both regular and secular clergy, have been shaved with them, especially at the beginning of
the colonization of these realms, when there was no such abundance as now of the necessary
instruments, and people who gain their livelihood by practising this occupation. But I conclude
by saying that it is an admirable thing to see them made, and no small argument for the capacity
of the men who found out such an invention."

Vetancurt (Teatro Mejicano) gives an account, taken from the above. Hernandez (Rerum Med. Nov.
Hisp. Thes.: Rome, 1631) gives a similar account of the process. He compares the wooden instrument
used to a cross-bow. It was evidently a T-shaped implement, and the workman held the cross-piece
with his two hands against his breast, while the end of the straight stick rested on the stone.
He furthermore gives a description of the making of the well-known maquahuitl, or Aztec war-club,
which was armed on both sides with a row of obsidian knives, or teeth, stuck into holes with
a kind of gum. With this instrument, he says, a man could be cut in half at a blow--an absurd
statement, which has been repeated by more modern writers.

II. ON THE SOLAR ECLIPSES RECORDED IN THE LE TELLIER MS.

The curious Aztec Picture-writing, known as the Codex Telleriano-Remenensis, preserved in the
Royal Library of Paris, contains a list or calendar of a long series of years, indicated by
the ordinary signs of the Aztec system of notation of cycles of years. Below the signs of the
years are a number of hieroglyphic pictures, conveying the record of remarkable events which
happened in them, such as the succession and death of kings, the dates of wars, pestilences,
&c. The great work of Lord Kingsborough, which contains a fac-simile of this curious document,
reproduces also an ancient interpretation of the matters contained in it, evidently the work
of a person who not only understood the interpretation of the Aztec picture-writings, but had
access to some independent source of information,--probably the more ample oral traditions,
for the recalling of which the picture-writing appears only to have served as a sort of artificial
memory. It is not necessary to enter here into a fuller description of the MS., which has also
been described by Humboldt and Gallatin.

Among the events recorded in the Codex are four eclipses of the sun, depicted as having happened
in the years 1476, 1496, 1507. 1510. Humboldt, in quoting these dates, makes a remark to the
effect that the record tends to prove the veracity of the Aztec history, for solar eclipses
really happened in those years, according to the list in the well-known chronological work,
L'Art de Vérifier les Dates, as follows: 28 Feb., 1476; 8 Aug., 1496; 13 Jan., 1507; 8 May,
1510. The work quoted, however, has only reference to eclipses visible in Europe, Asia, and
Africa, and not to those in America. The question therefore arises, whether all these four
eclipses recorded in L'Art de Vérifier les Dates, were visible in Mexico. As to the last three,
I have no means of answering the question; but it appears that Gama, a Mexican astronomer of
some standing, made a series of calculations for a totally distinct purpose about the end of
the last century, and found that in 1476 there was no eclipse of the sun visible in Mexico,
but that there was a great one on the 13th Feb., 1477, and another on the 28th May, 1481.

Supposing that Gama made no mistake in his calculations, the idea at once suggests itself,
that the person who compiled or copied the Le Tellier Codex, some few years after the Spanish
Conquest of Mexico, inserted under the date of 1476 (long before the time of the Spaniards)
an eclipse which could not have been recorded there had the document been a genuine Aztec Calendar;
as, though visible in Europe, it was not visible in Mexico. The supposition of the compiler
having merely inserted this date from a European table of eclipses is strengthened by the fact
that the great eclipse of 1477, which was visible in Mexico, but not in Europe, is not to be
found there. These two facts tend to prove that the Codex, though undoubtedly in great part
a copy or compilation from genuine native materials, has been deliberately sophisticated with
a view of giving it a greater appearance of historical accuracy, by some person who was not
quite clever enough to do his work properly. It may, however, be urged as a proof that the
mistake is merely the result of carelessness, that we find in the MS. no notice of the eclipse
of 25th May, 1481, which was visible both in Mexico and in Europe, and so ought to have been
in the record. This supposition would be consistent with the Codex being really a document
in which the part relating to the events before the Spanish Conquest in 1521 is of genuine
ancient and native origin, though the whole is compiled in a very grossly careless manner.
It would be very desirable to verify the years of all the four eclipses with reference to their
being visible in Mexico, as this might probably clear up the difficulty.

III. TABLE OK AZTEC ROOTS COMPARED WITH SANSCRIT, ETC.

Several lists of Aztec words compared with those of various Indo-European languages have been
given by philologists. The present is larger than any I have met with; several words in it
are taken from Buschmann's work on the Mexican languages. It is desirable in a philological
point of view that comparative lists of words of this kind should be made, even when, as in
the present instance, they are not of sufficient extent to found any theory upon.

As the Aztec alphabet does not contain nearly all the Sanscrit consonants, many of them must
be compared with the nearest Aztec sounds, as:

SANSCRIT, t, th, d, dh, &c.  ... AZTEC, t. SANSCRIT, k, kh, g, gh, &c.  ... AZTEC c.q. SANSCRIT,
l, r.              ... AZTEC, l. SANSCRIT, b, bh, v.          ... AZTEC, v. or u.

The Aztec c is soft (as s) before e and i, hard (as k) before a, o, u. The Aztec ch as in cheese.
I have followed Molina's orthography in writing such words as uel or vel (English, well) instead
of the more modern, but I think less correct way, huel.

 1. a-, negative prefix (as qualli, good; aqualli, bad). SANS.,
    a-; GREEK, a-, &c.

 2. o-, preterite augment (as nitemachtia, I teach; onitemachti,
    I taught); SANS., a-; compare GREEK e-.

 3. pal, prep. by: compare SANS. prep., para, back; pari,
    circum; pra, before; GREEK, para; LAT., per.

 4. ce-, cen-, cem-, prefix collective (as tlalla, to place,
    centlalla, to collect); SANS., sa-, san-, sam-; GREEK, syn; LAT.,
    syn.

 5. ce, cen-, cem-, one. SANS., sa (in sa-krit, once: comp. Bopp,
    Gloss., p. 362.) LAT., se-mel, si-mul, sim-plex.

 6. metz (metz-tli), moon. SANS., mas.

 7. tlal (tlal-li), earth. SANS., tala, dhara. LAT., terra, tellus.

 8. citlal (citlal-in), star. SANS., stri, stara. LAT., stella. Eng.,
    star.

 9. atoya (atoya-tl), river. SANS., udya.

10. teuh (teuh-tli), dust. Sans., dhû-li (from dhû, to drive
    about.)

11. teo (teo-tl),god. Sans., deva. Greek, Theos. Lat., deus.

12. qual (qual-li),good. Sans., kalya, kalyâna. Greek, kalor.

13. uel, well. Sans., vara, excellent; vli, to choose. Lat.,
    velle. Icel., vel. Eng., well.

14. uel, power, brave, &c., (uel-e, tla-uel-e.) Sans., bala,
    strength. Lat., valeo, valor.

15. auil, vicious, wasteful. Sans., âvila, sinful, guilty; abala,
    weak. Eng., evil.

16. miec, much. Sans., mahat, great; manh or mah, to grow.
    Icel., miok, much. Eng., much.

17. vey, great. Sans., bahu, much.

18. -pol, augmentative affix (as tepe-tl. mountain; tepepol, great
    mountain.) Sans., puru, much; pula, great, ample. Greek,
    pothus.

19. naua (naua-c), near, by the side of. Sans., nah, to join or
    connect. German, nah, near.

20. ten (ten-qui), fuil. Sans., tûn, to fill.

21. izta (izta-c), white. Sans., sita.

22. cuz (cuz-tic), red. Sans, kashãya, kasãya.

23. ta (ta-tli), father. Sans., tãta.

24. cone (cone-tl), child. Compare Sans., jan, to beget. Lat.,
    gen-itus. German, kin-d. Eng., kin.

25. pil (pil-li), child. Compare Sans., bãla, boy, child; bhri, to
    bear children, &c. Greek, polos, foal. Lat., pullus, filius.
    Eng.,foal, &c., &c.

26. cax (cax-itl), cup. Sans., chasbaka.

27. paz(?)(a-paz-tli), vase, basin. Sans., bajana. Compare Lat.,
    vas. Eng., vase.

28. com (com-itl), earthen pot. Sans., kumbha.

29. xuma (xuma-tli), spoon. Sans., chamasa; from Sans., cham, to
    eat.

30. mich (mich-in), fish. Sans., machcha.

31. zaca (zaca-tl), grass. Sans., sãka.

32. col (te-col-li, col-ceuia, &c.), charcoal. Sans., jval, to burn,
    flame; Icel., kol; Eng., coal; Irish, gual.

33. cen (cen-tli), grain, maize. Sans., kana, grain.

34. ehe (ehe-catl), wind. Sans., vãyu.

35. mix (mix-tli), cloud. Sans., megha; Icel., and Eng., mist.

36. cal (cal-ii),house. Sans., sãlã. Greek, kalia; Lat., cella.

37. qua (qua-itl), head. Sans., ka.

38. ix (ix-tli), eye, face. Sans., aksha, eye; âsya, face.

39. can (can-tli), cheek, Sans., ganda; Lat., gena.

40. chichi (chichi-tl), teat. Sans., chuchuka.

41. nene (nene-tl), pupil of eye. Sans., nayanâ.

42. choloa, to run or leap. Sans., char.

43. caqui (caqui-ztli), sound. Sans., kach, to sound.

44. xin (xi-xin-ia), to cut, ruin, destroy. Sans., ksin, to hurt,
    kill.

45. tlacç (tlacç-ani), to run. Sans., triks, to go; Greek, trecho.

46. patlani, to fly. Sans., pat.

47. mati, to know. Sans., medh, to understand; mati, thought,
    mind; Greek root math.

48. it (it-ta), to see. Sans., vid; Greek root id, eidomai, &c.;
    Lat., video.

49. meya, to flow, trickle. Sans., mih.

50. mic (mic-tia), to kill. Sans., mi, mith.

51. cuica, to sing. Sans., kûj. to sing, as birds, &c.

52. chichi to suck. SANS., chûsh.

53. ahnachia, to sprinkle: compare SANS. uks.

54. coton (coton-a),to cut. SANS. kutt.

55. nex (nex-tia), to shine. SANS, nad; LAT., niteo.

55. notz (notz-a), to call. SANS., nad.

57. choc (choc-a),to lament, cry. SANS, kuch, to cry aloud, scream;
    such, to wail.

58. me(?)(in me-catl, binding-thing, chain?) to bind SANS., mû, mava.

59. qua, to eat, bite: compare SANS. charv, to chew, bite, gnaw;
    chah, to bruize; khad, to eat.; GERMAN, kauen; ENG., to chew.

60. te, thou. SANS. tvam; LAT., tu.

61. quen, how? SANS. kena.

Other curious resemblances between the Aztec and European languages are:

62. pepeyol, poplar. LAT., populus; ICEL., popel.

63. papal (papal-otl), butterfly; LAT., papilio.

64. ul (ul-li), juice of the India-rubber tree, used as oil for
    anointing, &c. LAT., oleum; ENG., oil, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

IV. GLOSSARY.

ANAHUAC. Aztec. "By the water-side."
  The name at first applied to the Valley of Mexico, from the
  situation of the towns on the banks of the lakes; afterwards
  used to denote a great part of the present Republic of Mexico.

ACOCOTE (Aztec, acocotl, water-throat), aloe-sucker's gourd; see p.
  91.

ADOBE, a mud-brick, baked in the sun.
  (Perhaps a Moorish-Spanish word.
  Ancient Egyptian, tobe, a mud-brick;
  Arabic, toob, pronounced with the article
  at-toob, whence adobe?)

AGUAMIEL (honey-water), unfermented aloe-juice.

AGUARDIENTE (burning-water), ardent spirits.

AHUEHUETE (Aztec, ahuehuetl), the deciduous cypress.

ALAMEDA (poplar-avenue), public promenade; see p. 57.

ALCALDE, a magistrate (Moorish-Spanish, al cadi, "the cadi").

ANQUERA (hauncher), covering for horses' haunches; see p. 164 (and
  cut, p. 260).

ARRIERO, a muleteer.

ARROYO, a rivulet, mountain-torrent.

ATAMBOB, a drum.

ATOLE (Aztec, atolli), porridge.

AVERSADA, a freshet.

BARATILLO, a Rag-fair, market of odds and ends; see p. 169.

BARBACOA, whence English "barbecue;" see p. 95; a native Haitian
  word.

BARRANCCA, a ravine.

CALZONCILLOS, drawers.

CAPA, a cloak.

CAYO, a coral-reef.

CHAPARREROS, over-trousers of goatskin with the hair on, used in
  riding.

CHINAMPA (Aztec, "a place fenced in)," a Mexican "floating garden;"
  see p. 62.

CHINGUERITO, Indian-corn brandy.

CHIPI-CHIPI (Aztec, chipini, drizzling rain); see p. 26.

CHUPA-MIRTO (myrtle-sucker), a humming-bird.

COLEAR, to throw a bull over by the tail (cola); see p. 71.

COMPADRE. COMADRE; French, compère, commère; see p. 250.

CORRAL, an enclosure for cattle.

COSTAL, a bag, or sack.

COYOTE (Aztec, coyotl), a jackal.

CUARTA, a leather horse-whip; see p. 264.

CUARTEL, a barrack.

CUCARACHA, a cockroach.

CUCHILLO, a knife.

CURA, a parish-priest.

DESAGUE, a draining-cut.

DESAYUNO, breakfast.

EMANCIPADO (emancipated negro); see p. 6.

ESCOPETA, a musket.

ESCRIBANO, a scribe or secretary.

FANDANGO, a dance.

FIESTA, a church-festival.

FRIJOLES, beans.

FUERO, a legal privilege; see pp. 19, 249.

GACHUPIN, a native of Spain. Supposed to be an Aztec epithet,
  cac-chopina, that is, "prickly shoes," applied to the Spanish
  conquerors from their wearing spurs, which to the Indians were
  strange and incomprehensible appendages.

GARROTE, an instrument for strangling criminals.

GENTE DE RAZÓN (reasonable people), white men and half-breed Mexicans,
  but not Indians; see p. 61.

GUAJALOTE (Aztec, huexolotl), a turkey: see p. 228.

GULCHE, a ravine.

HACENDADO, a planter, landed proprietor, from HACIENDA (literally
  "doing," from hacer, or facer, to do). An estate, establishment,
  &c.

HACIENDA DE BENEFICIO, an establishment for "benefiting" silver, i.e.,
  for extracting it from the ore.

HONDA, a sling.

HORNITOS (little ovens), the small cones near the volcano of Jorullo,
  which formerly emitted steam; see p. 92.

HULE (Aztec, ulli. India-rubber?) a waterproof coat.

ICHTL (Aztec, thread), thread or string of aloe-fibre.

ITZTLI (Aztec), obsidian; see p. 100.

LAZADOR, one who throws the lazo.

LAZO. a running noose.

LEPERO, lazzarone, or prolétaire; see p. 251.

LLANOS, plains.

MACHETE, a kind of bill-hook.

MALACATE (Aztec, malacatl), a spindle, spindle-head, windlass, &c.

MANTA, cotton-cloth. MATRACA, a rattle; see p. 49.

MESON, a Mexican caravansery; see p.
  209.

MESTIZO (mixtus) a Mexican of mixed Spanish and Aztec blood.

METATE (Aztec, metlatl) the stone used for rubbing down Indian corn into paste; see p. 88.

METALPILE (Aztec, metlapilli, i.e. little metlatl), the stone rolling-pin used in the same process.

MOLE (Aztec, mulli), Mexican stew.

MOLINO DE VIENTO (literally a windmill), a whirlwind; see p. 31.

MONTE (literally a mountain), the favourite Mexican game; see p. 256.

MOZO, a lad, servant, groom.

NIÑO, a child.

NOPAL (Aztec, nopalli), the prickly pear.

NOETE, the north wind; see p. 21.

OCOTE (Aztec, ocotl), a pine-tree, pine-torch. OLLA, a boiling-pot.

PASADIZO, a passage; see p. 231.

PASEO, a public promenade.

PASO, a kind of amble; see p. 163.

PATIO, a court-yard, especially the inner court of a house.

PATIO-PROCESS, method of extracting the silver from the ore, so called
  from its being carried on in paved yards; see p. 92.

PATRON, a master, landlord.

PEDRIGAL, a lava-field.

PEOS, a debt-slave; see p. 291.

PETATE (Aztec, petlatl), a palm-leaf mat.

PITO, 1, a whistle, pipe; 2, aloe-fibre thread.

POTRERO, a water-meadow.

PULQUE, a drink made from the juice of the aloe; see p. 38. (It is a
  corruption of a native South American word, introduced into Mexico by
  the Spaniards).

RANCHERO, a cottager, yeoman.

RANCHO, a hut.

RAYA (literally a line), the paying of workmen at a hacienda, &c.

RAYAR, to pull a horse up short at a line; see p. 163.

REATA, a horse-rope; see p. 264.

REBOZO, a woman's shawl; see p. 56.

RECUA, a train of mules.

SALA, a hall, dining-room.

SERAPE, a Mexican blanket; see p. 169.

SOMBRERO, a hat.

TACUMENILES, pine-shingles for roofing.

TEMAZCALLI, Indian vapour-bath; see p. 301.

TEOCALLI (Aztec, god's house), an Aztec pyramid-temple.

TEFONAZTLI, Indian wooden drum.

TEQUESQUITE (Aztec, tequesquiti), an alkaline efflorescence abundant
  on the soil in Mexico, used for soap-making, &c.

TETZONTLI, porous amygdaloid lava, a stone much used for building in
  Mexico.

TIENDA, a shop; see p. 82.

TIERRA CALIENTE, the hot region.

TIERRA FRÍA, the cold region.

TIERRA TEMPLADA. the temperate region.

TLACHIQUEBO (Aztec, tlacbiqui, an overseer, from tlachia, to see), a
  labourer in an aloe-field, who draws the juice for pulque; see p.
  36.

TORO, a bull.

TORTA (literally, a cake); see p. 92.

TORTILLAS, thin cakes made of Indian corn, resembling oat-cakes; see
  p. 33.

TRAPICHE, a sugar-mill.

ULEI, see Hule.

VAQUERO, cow-herd.

ZOPILOTE (Aztec, zopilotl), a turkey-buzzard.

       *       *       *       *       *

V. DESCRIPTION OF THREE VERY RARE SPECIMENS OF ANCIENT MEXICAN MOSAIC-WORK (IN THE COLLECTION
OF HENRY CHRISTY, ESQ.).

These Specimens, two Masks and a Knife, (see page 101.) are interesting as presenting examples
of higher art than has been supposed to have been attained to by the ancient Mexicans, or any
other of the native American peoples. Their distinctive feature is an incrustation of Mosaic
of Turquoise, cut and polished, and fitted with extreme nicety,--a work of great labour, time,
and cost in any country, and especially so amongst a people to whom the use of iron was unknown,--and
carried out with a perfection which suggests the idea that the art must have been long practised
under the fostering of wealth and power, although so few examples of it have come down to us.

Although considerably varied, they are all three of one family of work, so to speak; the predominant
feature being the use of turquoise; and the question which presents itself at the outset is--what
are the evidences that this unique work is of Aztec origin?

The proofs are so interwoven with the style and structure of the specimens that their appearance
and nationality are best treated of together.

The Mask of wood is covered with minute pieces of turquoise--cut and polished, accurately fitted,
many thousands in number, and set on a dark gum or cement. The eyes, however, are acute-oval
patches of mother-of-pearl; and there are two small square patches of the same on the temples,
through which a string passed to suspend the mask; and the teeth are of hard white shell. The
eyes are perforated, and so are the nostrils, and the upper and lower teeth are separated by
a transverse chink; thus a wearer of the mask (which sits easily on one's face) can see, breathe,
and speak with ease. The features bear that remarkably placid and contemplative expression
which distinguishes so many of the Aztec works, in common with those of the Egyptians, whether
in their massive stone sculptures, or in the smallest and commonest heads of baked earth. The
face, which is well-proportioned, pleasing, and of great symmetry, is studded also with numerous
projecting pieces of turquoise, rounded and polished.

In addition to the character of the work and the style of face, the evidence of the Aztec origin
of this mask is confirmed by the wood being of the fragrant cedar or cypress of Mexico. It
may be remarked also that the inside is painted red, as are the wooden masks of the Indians
of the North-west coast of America at the present day.

