Friday, February 24.--Lunch. Beautiful day--too beautiful--an hour after starting loose ice
crystals spoiling surface. Saw depot and reached it middle forenoon. Found store in order except
shortage oil26--shall have to be very saving with fuel--otherwise have ten full days' provision
from to-night and shall have less than 70 miles to go. Note from Meares who passed through
December 15, saying surface bad; from Atkinson, after fine marching (2 1/4 days from pony depot),
reporting Keohane better after sickness. Short note from Evans, not very cheerful, saying surface
bad, temperature high. Think he must have been a little anxious. [45] It is an immense relief
to have picked up this depot and, for the time, anxieties are thrust aside. There is no doubt
we have been rising steadily since leaving the Shambles Camp. The coastal Barrier descends
except where glaciers press out. Undulation still but flattening out. Surface soft on top,
curiously hard below. Great difference now between night and day temperatures. Quite warm as
I write in tent. We are on tracks with half-march cairn ahead; have covered 4 1/2 miles. Poor
Wilson has a fearful attack snow-blindness consequent on yesterday's efforts. Wish we had more
fuel.

Night camp R. 38. Temp. -17°. A little despondent again. We had a really terrible surface this
afternoon and only covered 4 miles. We are on the track just beyond a lunch cairn. It really
will be a bad business if we are to have this pulling all through. I don't know what to think,
but the rapid closing of the season is ominous. It is great luck having the horsemeat to add
to our ration. To-night we have had a real fine 'hoosh.' It is a race between the season and
hard conditions and our fitness and good food.

Saturday, February 25.--Lunch Temp. -12°. Managed just 6 miles this morning. Started somewhat
despondent; not relieved when pulling seemed to show no improvement. Bit by bit surface grew
better, less sastrugi, more glide, slight following wind for a time. Then we began to travel
a little faster. But the pulling is still very hard; undulations disappearing but inequalities
remain.

Twenty-six Camp walls about 2 miles ahead, all tracks in sight--Evans' track very conspicuous.
This is something in favour, but the pulling is tiring us, though we are getting into better
ski drawing again. Bowers hasn't quite the trick and is a little hurt at my criticisms, but
I never doubted his heart. Very much easier--write diary at lunch--excellent meal--now one
pannikin very strong tea--four biscuits and butter.

Hope for better things this afternoon, but no improvement apparent. Oh! for a little wind--E.
Evans evidently had plenty.

R. 39. Temp. -20°. Better march in afternoon. Day yields 11.4 miles--the first double figure
of steady dragging for a long time, but it meant and will mean hard work if we can't get a
wind to help us. Evans evidently had a strong wind here, S.E. I should think. The temperature
goes very low at night now when the sky is clear as at present. As a matter of fact this is
wonderfully fair weather--the only drawback the spoiling of the surface and absence of wind.
We see all tracks very plain, but the pony-walls have evidently been badly drifted up. Some
kind people had substituted a cairn at last camp 27. The old cairns do not seem to have suffered
much.

Sunday, February 26.--Lunch Temp. -17°. Sky overcast at start, but able see tracks and cairn
distinct at long distance. Did a little better, 6 1/2 miles to date. Bowers and Wilson now
in front. Find great relief pulling behind with no necessity to keep attention on track. Very
cold nights now and cold feet starting march, as day footgear doesn't dry at all. We are doing
well on our food, but we ought to have yet more. I hope the next depôt, now only 50 miles,
will find us with enough surplus to open out. The fuel shortage still an anxiety.

R. 40. Temp. -21° Nine hours' solid marching has given us 11 1/2 miles. Only 43 miles from
the next depôt. Wonderfully fine weather but cold, very cold. Nothing dries and we get our
feet cold too often. We want more food yet and especially more fat. Fuel is woefully short.
We can scarcely hope to get a better surface at this season, but I wish we could have some
help from the wind, though it might shake us badly if the temp. didn't rise.

Monday, February 27.--Desperately cold last night: -33° when we got up, with -37° minimum.
Some suffering from cold feet, but all got good rest. We must open out on food soon. But we
have done 7 miles this morning and hope for some 5 this afternoon. Overcast sky and good surface
till now, when sun shows again. It is good to be marching the cairns up, but there is still
much to be anxious about. We talk of little but food, except after meals. Land disappearing
in satisfactory manner. Pray God we have no further set-backs. We are naturally always discussing
possibility of meeting dogs, where and when, &c. It is a critical position. We may find ourselves
in safety at next depôt, but there is a horrid element of doubt.

Camp R. 41. Temp. -32°. Still fine clear weather but very cold--absolutely calm to-night. We
have got off an excellent march for these days (12.2) and are much earlier than usual in our
bags. 31 miles to depot, 3 days' fuel at a pinch, and 6 days' food. Things begin to look a
little better; we can open out a little on food from to-morrow night, I think.

Very curious surface--soft recent sastrugi which sink underfoot, and between, a sort of flaky
crust with large crystals beneath.

Tuesday, February 28.--Lunch. Thermometer went below -40° last night; it was desperately cold
for us, but we had a fair night. I decided to slightly increase food; the effect is undoubtedly
good. Started marching in -32° with a slight north-westerly breeze--blighting. Many cold feet
this morning; long time over foot gear, but we are earlier. Shall camp earlier and get the
chance of a good night, if not the reality. Things must be critical till we reach the depot,
and the more I think of matters, the more I anticipate their remaining so after that event.
Only 24 1/2 miles from the depot. The sun shines brightly, but there is little warmth in it.
There is no doubt the middle of the Barrier is a pretty awful locality.

Camp 42. Splendid pony hoosh sent us to bed and sleep happily after a horrid day, wind continuing;
did 11 1/2 miles. Temp. not quite so low, but expect we are in for cold night (Temp. -27°).

Wednesday, February 29.--Lunch. Cold night. Minimum Temp. -37.5°; -30° with north-west wind,
force 4, when we got up. Frightfully cold starting; luckily Bowers and Oates in their last
new finnesko; keeping my old ones for present. Expected awful march and for first hour got
it. Then things improved and we camped after 5 1/2 hours marching close to lunch camp--22 1/2.
Next camp is our depot and it is exactly 13 miles. It ought not to take more than 1 1/2 days;
we pray for another fine one. The oil will just about spin out in that event, and we arrive
3 clear days' food in hand. The increase of ration has had an enormously beneficial result.
Mountains now looking small. Wind still very light from west--cannot understand this wind.

Thursday, March 1.--Lunch. Very cold last night--minimum -41.5°. Cold start to march, too,
as usual now. Got away at 8 and have marched within sight of depot; flag something under 3
miles away. We did 11 1/2 yesterday and marched 6 this morning. Heavy dragging yesterday and
very heavy this morning. Apart from sledging considerations the weather is wonderful. Cloudless
days and nights and the wind trifling. Worse luck, the light airs come from the north and keep
us horribly cold. For this lunch hour the exception has come. There is a bright and comparatively
warm sun. All our gear is out drying.

Friday, March 2.--Lunch. Misfortunes rarely come singly. We marched to the (Middle Barrier)
depot fairly easily yesterday afternoon, and since that have suffered three distinct blows
which have placed us in a bad position. First we found a shortage of oil; with most rigid economy
it can scarce carry us to the next depot on this surface (71 miles away). Second, Titus Oates
disclosed his feet, the toes showing very bad indeed, evidently bitten by the late temperatures.
The third blow came in the night, when the wind, which we had hailed with some joy, brought
dark overcast weather. It fell below -40° in the night, and this morning it took 1 1/2 hours
to get our foot gear on, but we got away before eight. We lost cairn and tracks together and
made as steady as we could N. by W., but have seen nothing. Worse was to come--the surface
is simply awful. In spite of strong wind and full sail we have only done 5 1/2 miles. We are
in a very queer street since there is no doubt we cannot do the extra marches and feel the
cold horribly.

Saturday, March 3.--Lunch. We picked up the track again yesterday, finding ourselves to the
eastward. Did close on 10 miles and things looked a trifle better; but this morning the outlook
is blacker than ever. Started well and with good breeze; for an hour made good headway; then
the surface grew awful beyond words. The wind drew forward; every circumstance was against
us. After 4 1/4 hours things so bad that we camped, having covered 4 1/2 miles. (R. 46.) One
cannot consider this a fault of our own--certainly we were pulling hard this morning--it was
more than three parts surface which held us back--the wind at strongest, powerless to move
the sledge. When the light is good it is easy to see the reason. The surface, lately a very
good hard one, is coated with a thin layer of woolly crystals, formed by radiation no doubt.
These are too firmly fixed to be removed by the wind and cause impossible friction on the runners.
God help us, we can't keep up this pulling, that is certain. Amongst ourselves we are unendingly
cheerful, but what each man feels in his heart I can only guess. Pulling on foot gear in the
morning is getter slower and slower, therefore every day more dangerous.

Sunday, March 4.--Lunch. Things looking very black indeed. As usual we forgot our trouble last
night, got into our bags, slept splendidly on good hoosh, woke and had another, and started
marching. Sun shining brightly, tracks clear, but surface covered with sandy frostrime. All
the morning we had to pull with all our strength, and in 4 1/2 hours we covered 3 1/2 miles.
Last night it was overcast and thick, surface bad; this morning sun shining and surface as
bad as ever. One has little to hope for except perhaps strong dry wind--an unlikely contingency
at this time of year. Under the immediate surface crystals is a hard sustrugi surface, which
must have been excellent for pulling a week or two ago. We are about 42 miles from the next
depot and have a week's food, but only about 3 to 4 days' fuel--we are as economical of the
latter as one can possibly be, and we cannot afford to save food and pull as we are pulling.
We are in a very tight place indeed, but none of us despondent yet, or at least we preserve
every semblance of good cheer, but one's heart sinks as the sledge stops dead at some sastrugi
behind which the surface sand lies thickly heaped. For the moment the temperature is on the
-20°--an improvement which makes us much more comfortable, but a colder snap is bound to come
again soon. I fear that Oates at least will weather such an event very poorly. Providence to
our aid! We can expect little from man now except the possibility of extra food at the next
depot. It will be real bad if we get there and find the same shortage of oil. Shall we get
there? Such a short distance it would have appeared to us on the summit! I don't know what
I should do if Wilson and Bowers weren't so determinedly cheerful over things.

Monday, March 5.--Lunch. Regret to say going from bad to worse. We got a slant of wind yesterday
afternoon, and going on 5 hours we converted our wretched morning run of 3 1/2 miles into something
over 9. We went to bed on a cup of cocoa and pemmican solid with the chill off. (R. 47.) The
result is telling on all, but mainly on Oates, whose feet are in a wretched condition. One
swelled up tremendously last night and he is very lame this morning. We started march on tea
and pemmican as last night--we pretend to prefer the pemmican this way. Marched for 5 hours
this morning over a slightly better surface covered with high moundy sastrugi. Sledge capsized
twice; we pulled on foot, covering about 5 1/2 miles. We are two pony marches and 4 miles about
from our depot. Our fuel dreadfully low and the poor Soldier nearly done. It is pathetic enough
because we can do nothing for him; more hot food might do a little, but only a little, I fear.
We none of us expected these terribly low temperatures, and of the rest of us Wilson is feeling
them most; mainly, I fear, from his self-sacrificing devotion in doctoring Oates' feet. We
cannot help each other, each has enough to do to take care of himself. We get cold on the march
when the trudging is heavy, and the wind pierces our warm garments. The others, all of them,
are unendingly cheerful when in the tent. We mean to see the game through with a proper spirit,
but it's tough work to be pulling harder than we ever pulled in our lives for long hours, and
to feel that the progress is so slow. One can only say 'God help us!' and plod on our weary
way, cold and very miserable, though outwardly cheerful. We talk of all sorts of subjects in
the tent, not much of food now, since we decided to take the risk of running a full ration.
We simply couldn't go hungry at this time.

Tuesday, March 6.--Lunch. We did a little better with help of wind yesterday afternoon, finishing
9 1/2 miles for the day, and 27 miles from depot. (R. 48.) But this morning things have been
awful. It was warm in the night and for the first time during the journey I overslept myself
by more than an hour; then we were slow with foot gear; then, pulling with all our might (for
our lives) we could scarcely advance at rate of a mile an hour; then it grew thick and three
times we had to get out of harness to search for tracks. The result is something less than
3 1/2 miles for the forenoon. The sun is shining now and the wind gone. Poor Oates is unable
to pull, sits on the sledge when we are track-searching--he is wonderfully plucky, as his feet
must be giving him great pain. He makes no complaint, but his spirits only come up in spurts
now, and he grows more silent in the tent. We are making a spirit lamp to try and replace the
primus when our oil is exhausted. It will be a very poor substitute and we've not got much
spirit. If we could have kept up our 9-mile days we might have got within reasonable distance
of the depot before running out, but nothing but a strong wind and good surface can help us
now, and though we had quite a good breeze this morning, the sledge came as heavy as lead.
If we were all fit I should have hopes of getting through, but the poor Soldier has become
a terrible hindrance, though he does his utmost and suffers much I fear.

Wednesday, March 7.--A little worse I fear. One of Oates' feet very bad this morning; he is
wonderfully brave. We still talk of what we will do together at home.

We only made 6 1/2 miles yesterday. (R. 49.) This morning in 4 1/2 hours we did just over 4
miles. We are 16 from our depot. If we only find the correct proportion of food there and this
surface continues, we may get to the next depot [Mt. Hooper, 72 miles farther] but not to One
Ton Camp. We hope against hope that the dogs have been to Mt. Hooper; then we might pull through.
If there is a shortage of oil again we can have little hope. One feels that for poor Oates
the crisis is near, but none of us are improving, though we are wonderfully fit considering
the really excessive work we are doing. We are only kept going by good food. No wind this morning
till a chill northerly air came ahead. Sun bright and cairns showing up well. I should like
to keep the track to the end.

Thursday, March 8.--Lunch. Worse and worse in morning; poor Oates' left foot can never last
out, and time over foot gear something awful. Have to wait in night foot gear for nearly an
hour before I start changing, and then am generally first to be ready. Wilson's feet giving
trouble now, but this mainly because he gives so much help to others. We did 4 1/2 miles this
morning and are now 8 1/2 miles from the depot--a ridiculously small distance to feel in difficulties,
yet on this surface we know we cannot equal half our old marches, and that for that effort
we expend nearly double the energy. The great question is, What shall we find at the depot?
If the dogs have visited it we may get along a good distance, but if there is another short
allowance of fuel, God help us indeed. We are in a very bad way, I fear, in any case.

Saturday, March 10.--Things steadily downhill. Oates' foot worse. He has rare pluck and must
know that he can never get through. He asked Wilson if he had a chance this morning, and of
course Bill had to say he didn't know. In point of fact he has none. Apart from him, if he
went under now, I doubt whether we could get through. With great care we might have a dog's
chance, but no more. The weather conditions are awful, and our gear gets steadily more icy
and difficult to manage. At the same time of course poor Titus is the greatest handicap. He
keeps us waiting in the morning until we have partly lost the warming effect of our good breakfast,
when the only wise policy is to be up and away at once; again at lunch. Poor chap! it is too
pathetic to watch him; one cannot but try to cheer him up.

Yesterday we marched up the depot, Mt. Hooper. Cold comfort. Shortage on our allowance all
round. I don't know that anyone is to blame. The dogs which would have been our salvation have
evidently failed. [46] Meares had a bad trip home I suppose.

This morning it was calm when we breakfasted, but the wind came from W.N.W. as we broke camp.
It rapidly grew in strength. After travelling for half an hour I saw that none of us could
go on facing such conditions. We were forced to camp and are spending the rest of the day in
a comfortless blizzard camp, wind quite foul. (R. 52.)

Sunday, March ll.--Titus Oates is very near the end, one feels. What we or he will do, God
only knows. We discussed the matter after breakfast; he is a brave fine fellow and understands
the situation, but he practically asked for advice. Nothing could be said but to urge him to
march as long as he could. One satisfactory result to the discussion; I practically ordered
Wilson to hand over the means of ending our troubles to us, so that anyone of us may know how
to do so. Wilson had no choice between doing so and our ransacking the medicine case. We have
30 opium tabloids apiece and he is left with a tube of morphine. So far the tragical side of
our story. (R. 53.)

The sky completely overcast when we started this morning. We could see nothing, lost the tracks,
and doubtless have been swaying a good deal since--3.1 miles for the forenoon--terribly heavy
dragging--expected it. Know that 6 miles is about the limit of our endurance now, if we get
no help from wind or surfaces. We have 7 days' food and should be about 55 miles from One Ton
Camp to-night, 6 × 7 = 42, leaving us 13 miles short of our distance, even if things get no
worse. Meanwhile the season rapidly advances.

Monday, March 12.--We did 6.9 miles yesterday, under our necessary average. Things are left
much the same, Oates not pulling much, and now with hands as well as feet pretty well useless.
We did 4 miles this morning in 4 hours 20 min.--we may hope for 3 this afternoon, 7 × 6 = 42.
We shall be 47 miles from the depot. I doubt if we can possibly do it. The surface remains
awful, the cold intense, and our physical condition running down. God help us! Not a breath
of favourable wind for more than a week, and apparently liable to head winds at any moment.

Wednesday, March 14.--No doubt about the going downhill, but everything going wrong for us.
Yesterday we woke to a strong northerly wind with temp. -37°. Couldn't face it, so remained
in camp (R. 54) till 2, then did 5 1/4 miles. Wanted to march later, but party feeling the
cold badly as the breeze (N.) never took off entirely, and as the sun sank the temp. fell.
Long time getting supper in dark. (R. 55.)

This morning started with southerly breeze, set sail and passed another cairn at good speed;
half-way, however, the wind shifted to W. by S. or W.S.W., blew through our wind clothes and
into our mits. Poor Wilson horribly cold, could not get off ski for some time. Bowers and I
practically made camp, and when we got into the tent at last we were all deadly cold. Then
temp, now midday down -43° and the wind strong. We must go on, but now the making of every
camp must be more difficult and dangerous. It must be near the end, but a pretty merciful end.
Poor Oates got it again in the foot. I shudder to think what it will be like to-morrow. It
is only with greatest pains rest of us keep off frostbites. No idea there could be temperatures
like this at this time of year with such winds. Truly awful outside the tent. Must fight it
out to the last biscuit, but can't reduce rations.

Friday, March 16 or Saturday 17.--Lost track of dates, but think the last correct. Tragedy
all along the line. At lunch, the day before yesterday, poor Titus Oates said he couldn't go
on; he proposed we should leave him in his sleeping-bag. That we could not do, and induced
him to come on, on the afternoon march. In spite of its awful nature for him he struggled on
and we made a few miles. At night he was worse and we knew the end had come.

Should this be found I want these facts recorded. Oates' last thoughts were of his Mother,
but immediately before he took pride in thinking that his regiment would be pleased with the
bold way in which he met his death. We can testify to his bravery. He has borne intense suffering
for weeks without complaint, and to the very last was able and willing to discuss outside subjects.
He did not--would not--give up hope to the very end. He was a brave soul. This was the end.
He slept through the night before last, hoping not to wake; but he woke in the morning--yesterday.
It was blowing a blizzard. He said, 'I am just going outside and may be some time.' He went
out into the blizzard and we have not seen him since.

I take this opportunity of saying that we have stuck to our sick companions to the last. In
case of Edgar Evans, when absolutely out of food and he lay insensible, the safety of the remainder
seemed to demand his abandonment, but Providence mercifully removed him at this critical moment.
He died a natural death, and we did not leave him till two hours after his death. We knew that
poor Oates was walking to his death, but though we tried to dissuade him, we knew it was the
act of a brave man and an English gentleman. We all hope to meet the end with a similar spirit,
and assuredly the end is not far.

I can only write at lunch and then only occasionally. The cold is intense, -40° at midday.
My companions are unendingly cheerful, but we are all on the verge of serious frostbites, and
though we constantly talk of fetching through I don't think anyone of us believes it in his heart.

We are cold on the march now, and at all times except meals. Yesterday we had to lay up for
a blizzard and to-day we move dreadfully slowly. We are at No. 14 pony camp, only two pony
marches from One Ton Depôt. We leave here our theodolite, a camera, and Oates' sleeping-bags.
Diaries, &c., and geological specimens carried at Wilson's special request, will be found with
us or on our sledge.

Sunday, March 18.--To-day, lunch, we are 21 miles from the depot. Ill fortune presses, but
better may come. We have had more wind and drift from ahead yesterday; had to stop marching;
wind N.W., force 4, temp. -35°. No human being could face it, and we are worn out nearly.

My right foot has gone, nearly all the toes--two days ago I was proud possessor of best feet.
These are the steps of my downfall. Like an ass I mixed a small spoonful of curry powder with
my melted pemmican--it gave me violent indigestion. I lay awake and in pain all night; woke
and felt done on the march; foot went and I didn't know it. A very small measure of neglect
and have a foot which is not pleasant to contemplate. Bowers takes first place in condition,
but there is not much to choose after all. The others are still confident of getting through--or
pretend to be--I don't know! We have the last half fill of oil in our primus and a very small
quantity of spirit--this alone between us and thirst. The wind is fair for the moment, and
that is perhaps a fact to help. The mileage would have seemed ridiculously small on our outward
journey.

Monday, March 19.--Lunch. We camped with difficulty last night, and were dreadfully cold till
after our supper of cold pemmican and biscuit and a half a pannikin of cocoa cooked over the
spirit. Then, contrary to expectation, we got warm and all slept well. To-day we started in
the usual dragging manner. Sledge dreadfully heavy. We are 15 1/2 miles from the depot and
ought to get there in three days. What progress! We have two days' food but barely a day's
fuel. All our feet are getting bad--Wilson's best, my right foot worst, left all right. There
is no chance to nurse one's feet till we can get hot food into us. Amputation is the least
I can hope for now, but will the trouble spread? That is the serious question. The weather
doesn't give us a chance--the wind from N. to N.W. and -40° temp, to-day.

Wednesday, March 11.--Got within 11 miles of depôt Monday night; [47] had to lay up all yesterday
in severe blizzard.27 To-day forlorn hope, Wilson and Bowers going to depot for fuel.

Thursday, March 22 and 23.--Blizzard bad as ever--Wilson and Bowers unable to start--to-morrow
last chance--no fuel and only one or two of food left--must be near the end. Have decided it
shall be natural--we shall march for the depot with or without our effects and die in our tracks.

Thursday, March 29.--Since the 21st we have had a continuous gale from W.S.W. and S.W. We had
fuel to make two cups of tea apiece and bare food for two days on the 20th. Every day we have
been ready to start for our depot 11 miles away, but outside the door of the tent it remains
a scene of whirling drift. I do not think we can hope for any better things now. We shall stick
it out to the end, but we are getting weaker, of course, and the end cannot be far.

It seems a pity, but I do not think I can write more.

R. SCOTT.

For God's sake look after our people.

------------

Wilson and Bowers were found in the attitude of sleep, their sleeping-bags closed over their
heads as they would naturally close them.

Scott died later. He had thrown back the flaps of his sleeping-bag and opened his coat. The
little wallet containing the three notebooks was under his shoulders and his arm flung across
Wilson. So they were found eight months later.

With the diaries in the tent were found the following letters:

TO MRS. E. A. WILSON

MY DEAR MRS. WILSON,

If this letter reaches you Bill and I will have gone out together. We are very near it now
and I should like you to know how splendid he was at the end--everlastingly cheerful and ready
to sacrifice himself for others, never a word of blame to me for leading him into this mess.
He is not suffering, luckily, at least only minor discomforts.

His eyes have a comfortable blue look of hope and his mind is peaceful with the satisfaction
of his faith in regarding himself as part of the great scheme of the Almighty. I can do no
more to comfort you than to tell you that he died as he lived, a brave, true man--the best
of comrades and staunchest of friends. My whole heart goes out to you in pity,

                       Yours,
                        R. SCOTT

TO MRS. BOWERS

MY DEAR MRS. BOWERS,

I am afraid this will reach you after one of the heaviest blows of your life.

I write when we are very near the end of our journey, and I am finishing it in company with
two gallant, noble gentlemen. One of these is your son. He had come to be one of my closest
and soundest friends, and I appreciate his wonderful upright nature, his ability and energy.
As the troubles have thickened his dauntless spirit ever shone brighter and he has remained
cheerful, hopeful, and indomitable to the end.

The ways of Providence are inscrutable, but there must be some reason why such a young, vigorous
and promising life is taken.

My whole heart goes out in pity for you.

                    Yours,
                        R. SCOTT.

To the end he has talked of you and his sisters. One sees what a happy home he must have had
and perhaps it is well to look back on nothing but happiness.

He remains unselfish, self-reliant and splendidly hopeful to the end, believing in God's mercy
to you.

TO SIR J. M. BARRIE

MY DEAR BARRIE,

We are pegging out in a very comfortless spot. Hoping this letter may be found and sent to
you, I write a word of farewell. ... More practically I want you to help my widow and my boy--your
godson. We are showing that Englishmen can still die with a bold spirit, fighting it out to
the end. It will be known that we have accomplished our object in reaching the Pole, and that
we have done everything possible, even to sacrificing ourselves in order to save sick companions.
I think this makes an example for Englishmen of the future, and that the country ought to help
those who are left behind to mourn us. I leave my poor girl and your godson, Wilson leaves
a widow, and Edgar Evans also a widow in humble circumstances. Do what you can to get their
claims recognised. Goodbye. I am not at all afraid of the end, but sad to miss many a humble
pleasure which I had planned for the future on our long marches. I may not have proved a great
explorer, but we have done the greatest march ever made and come very near to great success.
Goodbye, my dear friend,

                    Yours ever,
                           R. SCOTT.

We are in a desperate state, feet frozen, &c. No fuel and a long way from food, but it would
do your heart good to be in our tent, to hear our songs and the cheery conversation as to what
we will do when we get to Hut Point.

Later.--We are very near the end, but have not and will not lose our good cheer. We have four
days of storm in our tent and nowhere's food or fuel. We did intend to finish ourselves when
things proved like this, but we have decided to die naturally in the track.

As a dying man, my dear friend, be good to my wife and child. Give the boy a chance in life
if the State won't do it. He ought to have good stuff in him. ... I never met a man in my life
whom I admired and loved more than you, but I never could show you how much your friendship
meant to me, for you had much to give and I nothing.

TO THE RIGHT HON. SIR EDGAR SPEYER, BART.

Dated March 16, 1912. Lat. 79.5°.

MY DEAR SIR EDGAR,

I hope this may reach you. I fear we must go and that it leaves the Expedition in a bad muddle.
But we have been to the Pole and we shall die like gentlemen. I regret only for the women we
leave behind.

I thank you a thousand times for your help and support and your generous kindness. If this
diary is found it will show how we stuck by dying companions and fought the thing out well
to the end. I think this will show that the Spirit of pluck and power to endure has not passed
out of our race ...

Wilson, the best fellow that ever stepped, has sacrificed himself again and again to the sick
men of the party ...

I write to many friends hoping the letters will reach them some time after we are found next year.

We very nearly came through, and it's a pity to have missed it, but lately I have felt that
we have overshot our mark. No one is to blame and I hope no attempt will be made to suggest
that we have lacked support.

Good-bye to you and your dear kind wife.

                Yours ever sincerely,
                        R. SCOTT.

TO VICE-ADMIRAL SIR FRANCIS CHARLES BRIDGEMAN, K.C.V.O., K.C.B.

MY DEAR SIR FRANCIS,

I fear we have shipped up; a close shave; I am writing a few letters which I hope will be delivered
some day. I want to thank you for the friendship you gave me of late years, and to tell you
how extraordinarily pleasant I found it to serve under you. I want to tell you that I was not
too old for this job. It was the younger men that went under first... After all we are setting
a good example to our countrymen, if not by getting into a tight place, by facing it like men
when we were there. We could have come through had we neglected the sick.

Good-bye, and good-bye to dear Lady Bridgeman.

Yours ever,

R. SCOTT.

Excuse writing--it is -40°, and has been for nigh a month.

TO VICE-ADMIRAL SIR GEORGE LE CLEARC EGERTON. K.C.B.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,

I fear we have shot our bolt--but we have been to Pole and done the longest journey on record.

I hope these letters may find their destination some day.

Subsidiary reasons of our failure to return are due to the sickness of different members of
the party, but the real thing that has stopped us is the awful weather and unexpected cold
towards the end of the journey.

This traverse of the Barrier has been quite three times as severe as any experience we had
on the summit.

There is no accounting for it, but the result has thrown out my calculations, and here we are
little more than 100 miles from the base and petering out.

Good-bye. Please see my widow is looked after as far as Admiralty is concerned.

                     R. SCOTT.

My kindest regards to Lady Egerton. I can never forget all your kindness.

TO MR. J.J. KINSEY--CHRISTCHURCH

March 24th, 1912.

MY DEAR KINSEY,

I'm afraid we are pretty well done--four days of blizzard just as we were getting to the last
depot. My thoughts have been with you often. You have been a brick. You will pull the expedition
through, I'm sure.

My thoughts are for my wife and boy. Will you do what you can for them if the country won't.

I want the boy to have a good chance in the world, but you know the circumstances well enough.

If I knew the wife and boy were in safe keeping I should have little regret in leaving the
world, for I feel that the country need not be ashamed of us--our journey has been the biggest
on record, and nothing but the most exceptional hard luck at the end would have caused us to
fail to return. We have been to the S. pole as we set out. God bless you and dear Mrs. Kinsey.
It is good to remember you and your kindness.

                    Your friend,
                           R. SCOTT.

Letters to his Mother, his Wife, his Brother-in-law (Sir William Ellison Macartney), Admiral
Sir Lewis Beaumont, and Mr. and Mrs. Reginald Smith were also found, from which come the following
extracts:

The Great God has called me and I feel it will add a fearful blow to the heavy ones that have
fallen on you in life. But take comfort in that I die at peace with the world and myself--not
afraid.

Indeed it has been most singularly unfortunate, for the risks I have taken never seemed excessive.

... I want to tell you that we have missed getting through by a narrow margin which was justifiably
within the risk of such a journey ... After all, we have given our lives for our country--we
have actually made the longest journey on record, and we have been the first Englishmen at
the South Pole.

You must understand that it is too cold to write much.

... It's a pity the luck doesn't come our way, because every detail of equipment is right.

I shall not have suffered any pain, but leave the world fresh from harness and full of good
health and vigour.

Since writing the above we got to within 11 miles of our depot, with one hot meal and two days'
cold food. We should have got through but have been held for four days by a frightful storm.
I think the best chance has gone. We have decided not to kill ourselves, but to fight to the
last for that depôt, but in the fighting there is a painless end.

Make the boy interested in natural history if you can; it is better than games; they encourage
it at some schools. I know you will keep him in the open air.

Above all, he must guard and you must guard him against indolence. Make him a strenuous man.
I had to force myself into being strenuous as you know--had always an inclination to be idle.

There is a piece of the Union Jack I put up at the South Pole in my private kit bag, together
with Amundsen's black flag and other trifles. Send a small piece of the Union Jack to the King
and a small piece to Queen Alexandra.

What lots and lots I could tell you of this journey. How much better has it been than lounging
in too great comfort at home. What tales you would have for the boys. But what a price to pay.

Tell Sir Clements--I thought much of him and never regretted him putting me in command of the
Discovery.

Message to the Public

The causes of the disaster are not due to faulty organisation, but to misfortune in all risks
which had to be undertaken.

1. The loss of pony transport in March 1911 obliged me to start later than I had intended,
and obliged the limits of stuff transported to be narrowed.

2. The weather throughout the outward journey, and especially the long gale in 83° S., stopped us.

3. The soft snow in lower reaches of glacier again reduced pace.

We fought these untoward events with a will and conquered, but it cut into our provision reserve.

Every detail of our food supplies, clothing and depôts made on the interior ice-sheet and over
that long stretch of 700 miles to the Pole and back, worked out to perfection. The advance
party would have returned to the glacier in fine form and with surplus of food, but for the
astonishing failure of the man whom we had least expected to fail. Edgar Evans was thought
the strongest man of the party.

The Beardmore Glacier is not difficult in fine weather, but on our return we did not get a
single completely fine day; this with a sick companion enormously increased our anxieties.

As I have said elsewhere we got into frightfully rough ice and Edgar Evans received a concussion
of the brain--he died a natural death, but left us a shaken party with the season unduly advanced.

But all the facts above enumerated were as nothing to the surprise which awaited us on the
Barrier. I maintain that our arrangements for returning were quite adequate, and that no one
in the world would have expected the temperatures and surfaces which we encountered at this
time of the year. On the summit in lat. 85° 86° we had -20°, -30°. On the Barrier in lat. 82°,
10,000 feet lower, we had -30° in the day, -47° at night pretty regularly, with continuous
head wind during our day marches. It is clear that these circumstances come on very suddenly,
and our wreck is certainly due to this sudden advent of severe weather, which does not seem
to have any satisfactory cause. I do not think human beings ever came through such a month
as we have come through, and we should have got through in spite of the weather but for the
sickening of a second companion, Captain Oates, and a shortage of fuel in our depôts for which
I cannot account, and finally, but for the storm which has fallen on us within 11 miles of
the depôt at which we hoped to secure our final supplies. Surely misfortune could scarcely
have exceeded this last blow. We arrived within 11 miles of our old One Ton Camp with fuel
for one last meal and food for two days. For four days we have been unable to leave the tent--the
gale howling about us. We are weak, writing is difficult, but for my own sake I do not regret
this journey, which has shown that Englishmen can endure hardships, help one another, and meet
death with as great a fortitude as ever in the past. We took risks, we knew we took them; things
have come out against us, and therefore we have no cause for complaint, but bow to the will
of Providence, determined still to do our best to the last. But if we have been willing to
give our lives to this enterprise, which is for the honour of our country, I appeal to our
countrymen to see that those who depend on us are properly cared for.

Had we lived, I should have had a tale to tell of the hardihood, endurance, and courage of
my companions which would have stirred the heart of every Englishman. These rough notes and
our dead bodies must tell the tale, but surely, surely, a great rich country like ours will
see that those who are dependent on us are properly provided for.

                            R. SCOTT.

APPENDIX

Note 1, p. 3.--Dogs. These included thirty-three sledging dogs and a collie bitch, 'Lassie.'
The thirty-three, all Siberian dogs excepting the Esquimaux 'Peary' and 'Borup,' were collected
by Mr. Meares, who drove them across Siberia to Vladivostok with the help of the dog-driver
Demetri Gerof, whom he had engaged for the expedition. From Vladivostok, where he was joined
by Lieutenant Wilfred Bruce, he brought them by steamer to Sydney, and thence to Lyttelton.

The dogs were the gift of various schools, as shown by the following list:

Dogs Presented by Schools, &c.

School's, &c.,      Russian name    Translation,        Name of School, &c.,
name for Dog.       of Dog.         description, or     that presented Dog.
                                    nickname of Dog.

Beaumont            Kumgai          Isle off            Beaumont College.
                                    Vladivostok
Bengeo              Mannike Noogis  Little Leader       Bengeo, Herts.
Bluecoat            Giliak          Indian tribe        Christ's Hospital.
Bristol             Lappa Uki       Lop Ears            Grammar, Bristol.
Bromsgrove          'Peary'         'Peary'             Bromsgrove School
                                                        (cost of transport).
Colston's           Bullet          Bullet              Colston's School.
Danum               Rabchick        Grouse              Doncaster Grammar Sch.
Derby I.            Suka            Lassie              Girls' Secondary School,
                                                        Derby.
Derby II.           Silni           Stocky              Secondary Technical School,
                                                        Derby.
Devon               Jolti           Yellowboy           Devonshire House Branch
                                                        of Navy League.
Duns                Brodiaga        Robber              Berwickshire High School.
Falcon              Seri            Grey                High School, Winchester.
Felsted             Visoli          Jollyboy            Felsted School.
Glebe               Pestry          Piebald             Glebe House School.
Grassendale         Suhoi II.       Lanky               Grassendale School.
Hal                 Krisravitsa     Beauty              Colchester Royal
                                                        Grammar School.
Hampstead           Ishak           Jackass             South Hampstead High
                                                        School (Girls).
Hughie              Gerachi         Ginger              Master H. Gethin Lewis.
Ilkley              Wolk            Wolf                Ilkley Grammar.
Innie               Suhoi I.        Lanky               Liverpool Institute.
Jersey              Bear            Bear                Victoria College, Jersey.
John Bright         Seri Uki        Grey Ears           Bootham.
Laleham             Biela Noogis    White Leader        Laleham.
Leighton            Pudil           Poodle              Leighton Park, Reading.
Lyon                Tresor          Treasure            Lower School of J. Lyon.
Mac                 Deek I.         Wild One            Wells House.
Manor               Colonel         Colonel             Manor House.
Mount               Vesoi           One Eye             Mount, York.
Mundella            Bulli           Bullet              Mundella Secondary.
Oakfield            Ruggiola Sabaka 'Gun Dog' (Hound)   Oakfield School, Rugby.
Oldham              Vaida           Christian name      Hulme Grammar School,
                                                        Oldham.
Perse               Vaska           Lady's name         Perse Grammar.
Poacher             Malchick        Black Old Man       Grammar School, Lincoln.
                    Chorney Stareek
Price Llewelyn      Hohol           Little Russian      Intermediate, Llan-dudno Wells.
Radlyn              Czigane         Gipsy               Radlyn, Harrogate.
Richmond            Osman           Christian name      Richmond, Yorks.
Regent              Marakas seri    Grey                Regent Street Polytechnic
Steyne              Petichka        Little Bird         Steyne, Worthing.
Sir Andrew          Deek II.        Wild One            Sir Andrew Judd's
                                                        Commercial School.
Somerset            Churnie kesoi   One eye             A Somerset School.
Tiger               Mukaka          Monkey              Bournemouth School.
Tom                 Stareek         Old Man             Woodbridge.
Tua r Golleniai     Julik           Scamp               Intermediate School, Cardiff.
Vic                 Glinie          Long Nose           Modern, Southport.
Whitgift            Mamuke Rabchick Little Grouse       Whitgift Grammar.
Winston             Borup           Borup               Winston Higher Grade School
                                                        (cost of transport).
                    Meduate             Lion            N.Z. Girls' School.

Note 2, p. 4.--Those who are named in these opening pages were all keen supporters of the Expedition.
Sir George Clifford, Bart., and Messrs. Arthur and George Rhodes were friends from Christchurch.
Mr. M. J. Miller, Mayor of Lyttelton, was a master shipwright and contractor, who took great
interest in both the Discovery and the Terra Nova, and stopped the leak in the latter vessel
which had been so troublesome on the voyage out. Mr. Anderson belonged to the firm of John
Anderson & Sons, engineers, who own Lyttelton Foundry. Mr. Kinsey was the trusted friend and
representative who acted as the representative of Captain Scott in New Zealand during his absence
in the South. Mr. Wyatt was business manager to the Expedition.

Note 3. p. 11.--Dr. Wilson writes: I must say I enjoyed it all from beginning to end, and as
one bunk became unbearable after another, owing to the wet, and the comments became more and
more to the point as people searched out dry spots here and there to finish the night in oilskins
and greatcoats on the cabin or ward-room seats, I thought things were becoming interesting.

Some of the staff were like dead men with sea-sickness. Even so Cherry-Garrard and Wright and
Day turned out with the rest of us and alternately worked and were sick.

I have no sea-sickness on these ships myself under any conditions, so I enjoyed it all, and
as I have the run of the bridge and can ask as many questions as I choose, I knew all that
was going on.

All Friday and Friday night we worked in two parties, two hours on and two hours off; it was
heavy work filling and handing up huge buckets of water as fast as they could be given from
one to the other from the very bottom of the stokehold to the upper deck, up little metal ladders
all the way. One was of course wet through the whole time in a sweater and trousers and sea
boots, and every two hours one took these off and hurried in for a rest in a greatcoat, to
turn out again in two hours and put in the same cold sopping clothes, and so on until 4 A.M.
on Saturday, when we had baled out between four and five tons of water and had so lowered it
that it was once more possible to light fires and try the engines and the steam pump again
and to clear the valves and the inlet which was once more within reach. The fires had been
put out at 11.40 A.M. and were then out for twenty-two hours while we baled. It was a weird'
night's work with the howling gale and the darkness and the immense seas running over the ship
every few minutes and no engines and no sail, and we all in the engine-room, black as ink with
the engine-room oil and bilge water, singing chanties as we passed up slopping buckets full
of bilge, each man above' slopping a little over the heads of all below him; wet through to
the skin, so much so that some of the party worked altogether naked like Chinese coolies; and
the rush of the wave backwards and forwards at the bottom grew hourly less in the dim light
of a couple of engine-room oil lamps whose light just made the darkness visible, the ship all
the time rolling like a sodden lifeless log, her lee gunwale under water every time.

December 3. We were all at work till 4 A.M. and then were all told off to sleep till 8 A.M.
At 9.30 A.M. we were all on to the main hand pump, and, lo and behold! it worked, and we pumped
and pumped till 12.30, when the ship was once more only as full of bilge water as she always
is and the position was practically solved.

There was one thrilling moment in the midst of the worst hour on Friday when we were realising
that the fires must be drawn, and when every pump had failed to act, and when the bulwarks
began to go to pieces and the petrol cases were all afloat and going overboard, and the word
was suddenly passed in a shout from the hands at work in the waist of the ship trying to save
petrol cases that smoke was coming up through the seams in the after hold. As this was full
of coal and patent fuel and was next the engine-room, and as it had not been opened for the
airing, it required to get rid of gas on account of the flood of water on deck making it impossible
to open the hatchways; the possibility of a fire there was patent to everyone and it could
not possibly have been dealt with in any way short of opening the hatches and flooding the
ship, when she must have floundered. It was therefore a thrilling moment or two until it was
discovered that the smoke was really steam, arising from the bilge at the bottom having risen
to the heated coal.

Note 4, p. 15.--December 26. We watched two or three immense blue whales at fairly short distance;
this is Balænoptera Sibbaldi. One sees first a small dark hump appear and then immediately
a jet of grey fog squirted upwards fifteen to eighteen feet, gradually spreading as it rises
vertically into the frosty air. I have been nearly in these blows once or twice and had the
moisture in my face with a sickening smell of shrimpy oil. Then the bump elongates and up rolls
an immense blue-grey or blackish grey round back with a faint ridge along the top, on which
presently appears a small hook-like dorsal fin, and then the whole sinks and disappears. [Dr.
Wilson's Journal.]

Note 5, p. 21.--December 18. Watered ship at a tumbled floe. Sea ice when pressed up into large
hummocks gradually loses all its salt. Even when sea water freezes it squeezes out the great
bulk of its salt as a solid, but the sea water gets into it by soaking again, and yet when
held out of the water, as it is in a hummock, the salt all drains out and the melted ice is
blue and quite good for drinking, engines, &c. [Dr. Wilson's Journal.]

Note 6, p. 32.--It may be added that in contradistinction to the nicknames of Skipper conferred
upon Evans, and Mate on Campbell, Scott himself was known among the afterguard as The Owner.

Note 7, p. 35.--(Penguins.) They have lost none of their attractiveness, and are most comical
and interesting; as curious as ever, they will always come up at a trot when we sing to them,
and you may often see a group of explorers on the poop singing 'For she's got bells on her
fingers and rings on her toes, elephants to ride upon wherever she goes,' and so on at the
top of their voices to an admiring group of Adelie penguins. Meares is the greatest attraction;
he has a full voice which is musical but always very flat. He declares that 'God save the King'
will always send them to the water, and certainly it is often successful. [Dr. Wilson's Journal.]

Note 8, p. 58.--We were to examine the possibilities of landing, but the swell was so heavy
in its break among the floating blocks of ice along the actual beach and ice foot that a landing
was out of the question. We should have broken up the boat and have all been in the water together.
But I assure you it was tantalising to me, for there about 6 feet above us on a small dirty
piece of the old bay ice about ten feet square one living Emperor penguin chick was standing
disconsolately stranded, and close by stood one faithful old Emperor parent asleep. This young
Emperor was still in the down, a most interesting fact in the bird's life history at which
we had rightly guessed, but which no one had actually observed before. It was in a stage never
yet seen or collected, for the wings were already quite clean of down and feathered as in the
adult, also a line down the breast was shed of down, and part of the head. This bird would
have been a treasure to me, but we could not risk life for it, so it had to remain where it
was. It was a curious fact that with as much clean ice to live on as they could have wished
for, these destitute derelicts of a flourishing colony now gone north to sea on floating bay
ice should have preferred to remain standing on the only piece of bay ice left, a piece about
ten feet square and now pressed up six feet above water level, evidently wondering why it was
so long in starting north with the general exodus which must have taken place just a month
ago. The whole incident was most interesting and full of suggestion as to the slow working
of the brain of these queer people. Another point was most weird to see, that on the under
side of this very dirty piece of sea ice, which was about two feet thick and which hung over
the water as a sort of cave, we could see the legs and lower halves of dead Emperor chicks
hanging through, and even in one place a dead adult. I hope to make a picture of the whole
quaint incident, for it was a corner crammed full of Imperial history in the light of what
we already knew, and it would otherwise have been about as unintelligible as any group of animate
or inanimate nature could possibly have been. As it is, it throws more light on the life history
of this strangely primitive bird.

We were joking in the boat as we rowed under these cliffs and saying it would be a short-lived
amusement to see the overhanging cliff part company and fall over us. So we were glad to find
that we were rowing back to the ship and already 200 or 300 yards away from the place and in
open water when there was a noise like crackling thunder and a huge plunge into the sea and
a smother of rock dust like the smoke of an explosion, and we realised that the very thing
had happened which we had just been talking about. Altogether it was a very exciting row, for
before we got on board we had the pleasure of seeing the ship shoved in so close to these cliffs
by a belt of heavy pack ice that to us it appeared a toss-up whether she got out again or got
forced in against the rocks. She had no time or room to turn and get clear by backing out through
the belt of pack stern first, getting heavy bumps under the counter and on the rudder as she
did so, for the ice was heavy and the swell considerable. [Dr. Wilson's Journal.]

Note 9, p. 81.--Dr. Wilson writes in his Journal: January 14. He also told me the plans for
our depôt journey on which we shall be starting in about ten days' time. He wants me to be
a dog driver with himself, Meares, and Teddie Evans, and this is what I would have chosen had
I had a free choice at all. The dogs run in two teams and each team wants two men. It means
a lot of running as they are being driven now, but it is the fastest and most interesting work
of all, and we go ahead of the whole caravan with lighter loads and at a faster rate; moreover,
if any traction except ourselves can reach the top of Beardmore Glacier, it will be the dogs,
and the dog drivers are therefore the people who will have the best chance of doing the top
piece of the ice cap at 10,000 feet to the Pole. May I be there! About this time next year
may I be there or there-abouts! With so many young bloods in the heyday of youth and strength
beyond my own I feel there will be a most difficult task in making choice towards the end and
a most keen competition--and a universal lack of selfishness and self-seeking with a complete
absence of any jealous feeling in any single one of the comparatively large number who at present
stand a chance of being on the last piece next summer.

It will be an exciting time and the excitement has already begun in the healthiest possible
manner. I have never been thrown in with a more unselfish lot of men--each one doing his utmost
fair and square in the most cheery manner possible.

As late as October 15 he writes further: 'No one yet knows who will be on the Summit party:
it is to depend on condition, and fitness when we get there.' It is told of Scott, while still
in New Zealand, that being pressed on the point, he playfully said, 'Well, I should like to
have Bill to hold my hand when we get to the Pole'; but the Diary shows how the actual choice
was made on the march.

Note 10, p. 86.--Campbell, Levick, and Priestly set off to the old Nimrod hut eight miles away
to see if they could find a stove of convenient size for their own hut, as well as any additional
paraffin, and in default of the latter, to kill some seals for oil.

Note 11, p. 92.--The management of stores and transport was finally entrusted to Bowers. Rennick
therefore remained with the ship. A story told by Lady Scott illustrates the spirit of these
men--the expedition first, personal distinctions nowhere. It was in New Zealand and the very
day on which the order had been given for Bowers to exchange with Rennick. In the afternoon
Captain Scott and his wife were returning from the ship to the house where they were staying;
on the hill they saw the two men coming down with arms on each other's shoulders--a fine testimony
to both. 'Upon my word,' exclaimed Scott, 'that shows Rennick in a good light!'

Note 12, p. 102.--January 29. The seals have been giving a lot of trouble, that is just to
Meares and myself with our dogs. The whole teams go absolutely crazy when they sight them or
get wind of them, and there are literally hundreds along some of the cracks. Occasionally when
one pictures oneself quite away from trouble of that kind, an old seal will pop his head up
at a blowhole a few yards ahead of the team, and they are all on top of him before one can
say 'Knife!' Then one has to rush in with the whip--and every one of the team of eleven jumps
over the harness of the dog next to him and the harnesses become a muddle that takes much patience
to unravel, not to mention care lest the whole team should get away with the sledge and its
load and leave one behind to follow on foot at leisure. I never did get left the whole of this
depôt journey, but I was often very near it and several times had only time to seize a strap
or a part of the sledge and be dragged along helter-skelter over everything that came in the
way till the team got sick of galloping and one could struggle to one's feet again. One gets
very wary and wide awake when one has to manage a team of eleven dogs and a sledge load by
oneself, but it was a most interesting experience, and I had a delightful leader, 'Stareek'
by name--Russian for 'Old Man,' and he was the most wise old man. We have to use Russian terms
with all our dogs. 'Ki Ki' means go to the right, 'Chui' means go to the left, 'Esh to' means
lie down--and the remainder are mostly swear words which mean everything else which one has
to say to a dog team. Dog driving like this in the orthodox manner is a very different thing
to the beastly dog driving we perpetrated in the Discovery days. I got to love all my team
and they got to know me well, and my old leader even now, six months after I have had anything
to do with him, never fails to come and speak to me whenever he sees me, and he knows me and
my voice ever so far off. He is quite a ridiculous 'old man' and quite the nicest, quietest,
cleverest old dog I have ever come across. He looks in face as if he knew all the wickedness
of all the world and all its cares and as if he were bored to death by them. [Dr. Wilson's
Journal.]

Note 13, p. 111.--February 15. There were also innumerable subsidences of the surface--the
breaking of crusts over air spaces under them, large areas of dropping 1/4 inch or so with
a hushing sort of noise or muffled report.--My leader Stareek, the nicest and wisest old dog
in both teams, thought there was a rabbit under the crust every time one gave way close by
him and he would jump sideways with both feet on the spot and his nose in the snow. The action
was like a flash and never checked the team--it was most amusing. I have another funny little
dog, Mukaka, small but very game and a good worker. He is paired with a fat, lazy and very
greedy black dog, Nugis by name, and in every march this sprightly little Mukaka will once
or twice notice that Nugis is not pulling and will jump over the trace, bite Nugis like a snap,
and be back again in his own place before the fat dog knows what has happened. [Dr. Wilson's
Journal.]

Note 13a, p. 125.--Taking up the story from the point where eleven of the thirteen dogs had
been brought to the surface, Mr. Cherry-Garrard's Diary records:

This left the two at the bottom. Scott had several times wanted to go down. Bill said to me
that he hoped he wouldn't, but now he insisted. We found the Alpine rope would reach, and then
lowered Scott down to the platform, sixty feet below. I thought it very plucky. We then hauled
the two dogs up on the rope, leaving Scott below. Scott said the dogs were very glad to see
him; they had curled up asleep--it was wonderful they had no bones broken.

Then Meares' dogs, which were all wandering about loose, started fighting our team, and we
all had to leave Scott and go and separate them, which took some time. They fixed on Noogis
(I.) badly. We then hauled Scott up: it was all three of us could do--fingers a good deal frost-bitten
at the end. That was all the dogs. Scott has just said that at one time he never hoped to get
back the thirteen or even half of them. When he was down in the crevasse he wanted to go off
exploring, but we dissuaded him. Of course it was a great opportunity. He kept on saying, 'I
wonder why this is running the way it is--you expect to find them at right angles.'

Scott found inside crevasse warmer than above, but had no thermometer. It is a great wonder
the whole sledge did not drop through: the inside was like the cliff of Dover.

Note 14, p. 136.--February 28. Meares and I led off with a dog team each, and leaving the Barrier
we managed to negotiate the first long pressure ridge of the sea ice where the seals all lie,
without much trouble--the dogs were running well and fast and we kept on the old tracks, still
visible, by which we had come out in January, heading a long way out to make a wide detour
round the open water off Cape Armitage, from which a very wide extent of thick black fog, 'frost
smoke' as we call it, was rising on our right. This completely obscured our view of the open
water, and the only suggestion it gave me was that the thaw pool off the Cape was much bigger
than when we passed it in January and that we should probably have to make a detour of three
or four miles round it to reach Hut Point instead of one or two. I still thought it was not
impossible to reach Hut Point this way, so we went on, but before we had run two miles on the
sea ice we noticed that we were coming on to an area broken up by fine thread-like cracks evidently
quite fresh, and as I ran along by the sledge I paced them and found they curved regularly
at every 30 paces, which could only mean that they were caused by a swell. This suggested to
me that the thaw pool off Cape Armitage was even bigger than I thought and that we were getting
on to ice which was breaking up, to flow north into it. We stopped to consider, and found that
the cracks in the ice we were on were the rise and fall of a swell. Knowing that the ice might
remain like this with each piece tight against the next only until the tide turned, I knew
that we must get off it at once in case the tide did turn in the next half-hour, when each
crack would open up into a wide lead of open water and we should find ourselves on an isolated
floe. So we at once turned and went back as fast as possible to the unbroken sea ice. Obviously
it was now unsafe to go round to Hut Point by Cape Armitage and we therefore made for the Gap.
It was between eight and nine in the evening when we turned, and we soon came in sight of the
pony party, led as we thought by Captain Scott. We were within 1/2 a mile of them when we hurried
right across their bows and headed straight for the Gap, making a course more than a right
angle off the course we had been on. There was the seals' pressure ridge of sea ice between
us and them, but as I could see them quite distinctly I had no doubt they could see us, and
we were occupied more than once just then in beating the teams off stray seals, so that we
didn't go by either vary quickly or very silently. From here we ran into the Gap, where there
was some nasty pressed-up ice to cross and large gaps and cracks by the ice foot; but with
the Alpine rope and a rush we got first one team over and then the other without mishap on
to the land ice, and were then practically at Hut Point. However, expecting that the pony party
was following us, we ran our teams up on to level ice, picketed them, and pitched our tent,
to remain there for the night, as we had a half-mile of rock to cross to reach the hut and
the sledges would have to be carried over this and the dogs led by hand in couples--a very
long job. Having done this we returned to the ice foot with a pick and a shovel to improve
the road up for horse party, as they would have to come over the same bad ice we had found
difficult with the dogs; but they were nowhere to be seen close at hand as we had expected,
for they were miles out, as we soon saw, still trying to reach Hut Point by the sea ice round
Cape Armitage thaw pool, and on the ice which was showing a working crack at 30 paces. I couldn't
understand how Scott could do such a thing, and it was only the next day that I found out that
Scott had remained behind and had sent Bowers in charge of this pony party. Bowers, having
had no experience of the kind, did not grasp the situation for some time, and as we watched
him and his party--or as we thought Captain Scott and his party--of ponies we saw them all
suddenly realise that they were getting into trouble and the whole party turned back; but instead
of coming back towards the Gap as we had, we saw them go due south towards the Barrier edge
and White Island. Then I thought they were all right, for I knew they would get on to safe
ice and camp for the night. We therefore had our supper in the tent and were turning in between
eleven and twelve when I had a last look to see where they were and found they had camped as
it appeared to me on safe Barrier ice, the only safe thing they could have done. They were
now about six miles away from us, and it was lucky that I had my Goerz glasses with me so that
we could follow their movements. Now as everything looked all right, Meares and I turned in
and slept. At 5 A.M. I awoke, and as I felt uneasy about the party I went out and along the
Gap to where we could see their camp, and I was horrified to see that the whole of the sea
ice was now on the move and that it had broken up for miles further than when we turned in
and right back past where they had camped, and that the pony party was now, as we could see,
adrift on a floe and separated by open water and a lot of drifting ice from the edge of the
fast Barrier ice. We could see with our glasses that they were running the ponies and sledges
over as quickly as possible from floe to floe whenever they could, trying to draw nearer to
the safe Barrier ice again. The whole Strait was now open water to the N. of Cape Armitage,
with the frost smoke rising everywhere from it, and full of pieces of floating ice, all going
up N. to Ross Sea.

March 1. Ash Wednesday. The question for us was whether we could do anything to help them.
There was no boat anywhere and there was no one to consult with, for everyone was on the floating
floe as we believed, except Teddie Evans, Forde, and Keohane, who with one pony were on their
way back from Corner Camp. So we searched the Barrier for signs of their tent and then saw
that there was a tent at Safety Camp, which meant evidently to us that they had returned. The
obvious thing was to join up with them and go round to where the pony party was adrift, and
see if we could help them to reach the safe ice. So without waiting for breakfast we went off
six miles to this tent. We couldn't go now by the Gap, for the ice by which we had reached
land yesterday was now broken up in every direction and all on the move up the Strait. We had
no choice now but to cross up by Crater Hill and down by Pram Point and over the pressure ridges
and so on to the Barrier and off to Safety Camp. We couldn't possibly take a dog sledge this
way, so we walked, taking the Alpine rope to cross the pressure ridges, which are full of crevasses.

We got to this tent soon after noon and were astonished to find that not Teddie Evans and his
two seamen were here, but that Scott and Oates and Gran were in it and no pony with them. Teddie
Evans was still on his way back from Corner Camp and had not arrived. It was now for the first
time that we understood how the accident had happened. When we had left Safety Camp yesterday
with the dogs, the ponies began their march to follow us, but one of the ponies was so weak
after the last blizzard and so obviously about to die that Bowers, Cherry-Garrard, and Crean
were sent on with the four capable ponies, while Scott, Oates, and Gran remained at Safety
Camp till the sick pony died, which happened apparently that night. He was dead and buried
when we got there. We found that Scott had that morning seen the open water up to the Barrier
edge and had been in a dreadful state of mind, thinking that Meares and I, as well as the whole
pony party, had gone out into the Strait on floating ice. He was therefore much relieved when
we arrived and he learned for the first time where the pony party was trying to get to fast
ice again. We were now given some food, which we badly wanted, and while we were eating we
saw in the far distance a single man coming hurriedly along the edge of the Barrier ice from
the direction of the catastrophe party and towards our camp. Gran went off on ski to meet him,
and when he arrived we found it was Crean, who had been sent off by Bowers with a note, unencumbered
otherwise, to jump from one piece of floating ice to another until he reached the fast edge
of the Barrier in order to let Capt. Scott know what had happened. This he did, of course not
knowing that we or anyone else had seen him go adrift, and being unable to leave the ponies
and all his loaded sledges himself. Crean had considerable difficulty and ran a pretty good
risk in doing this, but succeeded all right. There were now Scott, Oates, Crean, Gran, Meares,
and myself here and only three sleeping-bags, so the three first remained to see if they could
help Bowers, Cherry-Garrard, and the ponies, while Meares, Gran, and I returned to look after
our dogs at Hut Point. Here we had only two sleeping-bags for the three of us, so we had to
take turns, and I remained up till 1 o'clock that night while Gran had six hours in my bag.
It was a bitterly cold job after a long day. We had been up at 5 with nothing to eat till 1
o'clock, and walked 14 miles. The nights are now almost dark.

