[Footnote 31125: Buchez et Roux, X., 295, 296. (Session June 22, 1791, of the Jacobin Club.)--Ibid.,
294.--Marat spoke in the same vein: "I have made myself a curse for all good people in France."
He writes, the same date: "Writers in behalf of the people will be dragged to dungeons. 'The
friend of the people,' whose last sigh is given for his country, and whose faithful voice still
summons you to freedom, is to find his grave in a fiery furnace." The last expression shows
the difference in their imaginations.]

[Footnote 31126: Hamel, II., 122. (Meeting of the Jacobin Club, Feb.10, 1792.) "To obtain death
at the hands of tyrants is not enough--one must deserve death. If it be true that the earliest
defenders of liberty became its martyrs they should not suffer death without bearing tyranny
along with them into the grave."--Cf., ibid., II., 215. (Meeting of April 27, 1792.)]

[Footnote 31127: Hamel, II., 513. (Speech in the Convention, Prairial 7, year II.)]

[Footnote 31128: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 422, 445, 447, 457. (Speech in the Convention, Thermidor
8, year II.)]

[Footnote 31129: Buchez et Roux, XX., 11, 18. (Meeting of the Jacobin Club, Oct.29, 1792.)
Speech on Lafayette, the Feuillants and Girondists. XXXI., 360, 363. (Meeting of the Convention,
May 7, 1794.) On Lafayette, the Girondists, Dantonists and Hébertists.--XXXIII., 427. (Speech
of Thermidor 8, year II.)]

[Footnote 31130: Garat, "Mémoires," 87, 88.]

[Footnote 31131: Buchez et Roux, XXI., 107. (Speech of Pétion on the charges made against him
by Robespierre.) Petion justly objects that "Brunswick would be the first to cut off Brissot's
head, and Brissot is not fool enough to doubt it."]

[Footnote 31132: Garat, 94. (After the King's death and a little before the 10th of March, 1793.)]

[Footnote 31133: Ibid., 97. In 1789 Robespierre assured Garat that Necker was plundering the
Treasury, and that people had seen mules loaded with the gold and silver he was sending off
by millions to Geneva.--Carnot, "Mémoires," I. 512. "Robespierre," say Carnot and Prieur, "paid
very little attention to public business, but a good deal to public officers; he made himself
intolerable with his perpetual mistrust of these, never seeing any but traitors and conspirators."]

[Footnote 31134: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 417. (Speech of Thermidor 8, year II.)]

[Footnote 31135: Ibid., XXXII., 361, (Speech May 7, '794,) and 359. "Immorality is the basis
of despotism, as virtue is the essence of the Republic."]

[Footnote 31136: Ibid., 371.]

[Footnote 31137: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 195. (Report of Couthon and decree in conformity
therewith, Prairial 22, year II.) "The revolutionary tribunal is organised for the punishment
of the people's enemies.. .. The penalty for all offences within its jurisdiction is death.
Those are held to be enemies of the people who shall have misled the people, or the representatives
of the people, into measures opposed to the interests of liberty; those who shall have sought
to create discouragement by favoring the undertakings of tyrants leagued against the Republic;
those who shall have spread false reports to divide or disturb the people; those who shall
have sought to misdirect opinion and impede popular instruction, produce depravity and corrupt
the public conscience, diminish the energy and purity of revolutionary and republican principles,
or stay their progress Those who, charged with public functions, abuse them to serve the enemies
of the Revolution, vex patriots, oppress the people, etc."]

[Footnote 31138: Buchez et Roux, XXXV., 290. (" Institutions," by Saint-Just.) "The Revolution
is chilled. Principles have lost their vigor. Nothing remains but red-caps worn by intrigue."--Report
by Courtois, "Pièces justificatives" No.20. (Letter of Pays and Rompillon, president and secretary
of the committee of Surveillance of Saint-Calais, to Robespierre, Nivôse 15, year II.) "The
Mountain here is composed of only a dozen or fifteen men on whom you can rely as on yourself;
the rest are either deceived, seduced, corrupted or enticed away. Public opinion is debauched
by the gold and intrigues of honest folks."]

[Footnote 31139: Report by Courtois, N. 43.--Cf. Hamel, III., 43, 71.--(The following important
document is on file in the Archives Nationales, F 7, 4446, and consists of two notes written
by Robespierre in June and July, 1793): "Who are our enemies? The vicious and the rich....
How may the civil war be stopped? Punish traitors and conspirators, especially guilty deputies
and administrators.... make terrible examples.... proscribe perfidious writers and anti-revolutionaries....
Internal danger comes from the bourgeois; to overcome the bourgeois, rally the people. The
present insurrection must be kept up.... The insurrection should gradually continue to spread
out... The sans-culottes should be paid and remain in the towns. They ought to be armed, worked
up, taught."]

[Footnote 31140: The committee of Public Safety, and Robespierre especially, knew of and commanded
the drownings of Nantes, as well as the principal massacres by Carrier, Turreau, etc. (De Martel,
"Etude sur Fouché," 257-265.)--Ibid., ("Types revolutionnaires," 41-49.)--Buchez et Roux, XXXIII.,
101 (May 26, 1794.) Report by Barère and decree of the convention ordering that "No English
prisoners should be taken." Robespierre afterwards speaks in the same sense. Ibid., 458. After
the capture of Newport, where they took five thousand English prisoners, the French soldiers
were unwilling to execute the convention's decree, on which Robespierre (speech of Thermidor
8) said: "I warn you that your decree against the English has constantly been violated; England,
so ill-treated in our speeches, is spared by our arms."]

[Footnote 31141: On the Girondists, Cf. "The Revolution," II., 216.]

[Footnote 31142: Buchez et Roux, XXX., 157. Sketch of a speech on the Fabre d'Eglantine factim.--Ibid.,
336, Speech at the Jacobin Club against Clootz.--XXXII., abstract of a report on the Chabot
affair, 18.-Ibid., 69, Speech on maintaining Danton's arrest.]

[Footnote 31143: Ibid., XXX., 378. (Dec.10, 1793.) With respect to the women who crowd the
Convention in order to secure the liberty of their husbands: "Should the republican women forget
their virtues as citizens whenever they remembering that they are wives?"]

[Footnote 31144: Hamel, III., 196.--Michelet, V., 394, abstract of the judicial debates on
the disposition of the Girondists: "The minutes of this decree are found in Robespierre's handwriting."]

[Footnote 31145: De Martel, "Types revolutionnaires," 44. The instructions sent to the Revolutionary
Tribunal at Orange are in Robespierre's handwriting.--(Archives Nationales, F7 4439.)]

[Footnote 31146: Merlin de Thionville.]

[Footnote 31147: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 71. (On Danton.) "Before the day is over we shall
see whether the convention will shatter an idol a long time rotten.... In what respect is Danton
superior to his fellow-citizens?.... I say that the man who now hesitates is guilty..... The
debate, just begun, is a danger to the country."--Also the speech in full, against Clootz.]

[Footnote 31148: Ibid., XXX., 338. "Alas, suffering patriots, what can we do, surrounded by
enemies fighting in our own ranks!... Let us watch, for the fall of our country is not far
off," etc.--These cantatas, with the accompaniments of the celestial harp, are terrible if
we consider the circumstances. For instance, on the 3rd of September, 1792, in the electoral
assembly while the massacres are going on: "M. Robespierre climbs up on the tribune and declares
that he will calmly face the steel of the enemies of public good, and carry with him to his
grave the satisfaction of having served his country, the certainty of France having preserved
its liberty".--(Archives Nationales, C. II., 58-76.)]

[Footnote 31149: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 360, 371. (Speech of May 7, 1794.) "Danton! the most
dangerous, if he had not been the most cowardly, of the enemies of his country.... Danton,
the coldest, the most indifferent, during his country's greatest peril."]

[Footnote 31150: Ibid., XXXIV.,--Cf. the description of him by Fievée, who saw him in the tribune
at the Jacobin Club.]

[Footnote 31151: Merlin de Thionville "A vague, painful anxiety, due to his temperament, was
the sole source of his activity."]

[Footnote 31152: Barère, "Mémoires." "He wanted to rule France influentially rather than directly."--Buchez
et Roux, XIV., 188. (Article by Marat.) During the early sessions of the Legislative Assembly,
Marat saw Robespierre on one occasion, and explained to him his plans for exciting popular
outbreaks, and for his purifying massacres. "Robespierre listened to me with dismay, turned
pale and kept silent for some moments. This interview confirmed me in the idea I always had
of him, that he combined the enlightenment of a wise senator with the uprightness of a genuine
good man and the zeal of a true patriot, but that he equally lacked the views and boldness
of a statesman."--Thibaudeau, "Mémoires," 58.--He was the only member of the committee of Public
Safety who did not join the department missions.]

[Footnote 31153: Someone is "grandisonian" when he is like the novelist Richardson's hero,
Sir Walter Grandison, beneficient, polite and chivalrous. (SR).]

[Footnote 31154: Buchez et Roux XX., 198. (Speech of Robespierre in the Convention, November
5, 1792.)]

[Footnote 31155: All these statements by Robespierre are opposed to the truth.--("Procés-verbaux
des Séances de la Commune de Paris.") Sep. 1, 1792, Robespierre speaks twice at the evening
session.--The testimony of two persons, both agreeing, indicate, moreover, that he spoke at
the morning session, the names of the speakers not being given. "The question," says Pétion
(Buchez et Roux, XXI., 103), "was the decree opening the barriers." This decree is under discussion
at the Commune at the morning session of September 1: "Robespierre, on this question, spoke
in the most animated manner, wandering off in sombre flights of imagination; he saw precipices
at his feet and plots of liberticides; he designated the pretended conspirators."--Louvet (ibid.,
130), assigns the same date, (except that he takes the evening for the morning session), for
Robespierre's first denunciation of the Girondists: "Nobody, then," says Robespierre, "dare
name the traitors? Very well, I denounce them. I denounce them for the security of the people.
I denounce the liberticide Brissot, the Girondist faction, the villainous committee of twenty-one
in the National Assembly. I denounce them for having sold France to Brunswick and for having
received pay in advance for their baseness."--Sep. 2, ("Procès verbaux de la Commune," evening
session), "MM. Billaud-Varennes and Robespierre, in developing their civic sentiments,.. denounce
to the Conseil-Général the conspirators in favor of the Duke of Brunswick, whom a powerful
party want to put on the throne of France."--September 3, at 6 o'clock in the morning, (Buchez
et Roux, 16, 132, letter of Louvet), commissioners of the Commune present themselves at Brissot's
house with an order to inspect his papers; one of them says to Brissot that he has eight similar
orders against the Gironde deputies and that he is to begin with Guadet. (Letter of Brissot
complaining of this visit, Monitur, Sep. 7, 1792.) This same day, Sep. 31 Robespierre presides
at the Commune. (Granier de Cassagnac, "Les Girondins" II., 63.) It is here that a deputation
of the Mauconseil section comes to find him, and he is charged by the "Conseil" with a commission
at the Temple.--Sept. 4 (Buchez et Roux, XXI., 106, Speech of Petion), the Commune issues a
warrant of arrest against Roland; Danton comes to the Mayoralty with Robespierre and has the
warrant revoked; Robespierre ends by telling Petion: "I believe that Brissot belongs to Brunswick."--Ibid.,
506. "Robespierre (before Sept. 2), took the lead in the Conseil"--Ibid., 107. "Robespierre,"
I said, "you are making a good deal of mischief. Your denunciations, your fears, hatreds and
suspicions, excite the people."]

[Footnote 31156: Garat, 86.-Cf. Hamel, I., 264. (Speech, June 9, 1791.)]

[Footnote 31157: "The Revolution," II., 338, 339. (Speech. Aug. 3, 1792.)]

[Footnote 31158: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 420. (Speech, Thermidor 8.)]

[Footnote 31159: Ibid., XXXII., 71. (Speech against Danton.) "What have you done that you have
not done freely?"]

[Footnote 31160: Ibid., XXXIII., 199 and 221. (Speech on the law of Prairial 22.)]

[Footnote 31161: Mirabeau said of Robespierre: "Whatever that man has said, he believes in
it.--Robespierre, Duplay's guest, dined every day with Duplay, a juryman in the revolutionary
tribunal and co-operator for the guillotine, at eighteen francs a day. The talk at the table
probably turned on the current abstractions; but there must have been frequent allusions to
the condemnations of the day, and, even when not mentioned, they were in their minds. Only
Robert Browning, at the present day, could imagine and revive what was spoken and thought in
those evening conversations before the mother and daughters."]

[Footnote 31162: Today, more than 100 years later, where are we? Is it possible that man can
thus lie to himself and hence to others? Robert Wright, in his book "The Moral Animal", describing
"The New Science of Evolutionary Psychology", writes (page 280): "The proposition here is that
the human brain is, in large part, a machine for winning arguments, a machine for convincing
others that its owner is in the right--and thus a machine for convincing its owner of the same
thing. The brain is like a good lawyer: given any set of interests to defend, its sets about
convincing the world of their moral and logical worth, regardless of whether they in fact have
any of either. Like a lawyer, it is sometimes more admirable for skill than for virtue." (SR).]

[Footnote 31163: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 151.--Cf.. Dauban, "Paris en 1794," p.386 (engraving)
and 392, "Fête de l'Être Suprême à Sceaux," according to the programme drawn up by the patriot
Palloy. "All citizens are requested to be at their windows or doors, even those occupying the
rear part of the main buildings."--Ibid., 399. "Youthful citizens will strew flowers at each
station, fathers will embrace their children and mothers turn their eyes upward to heaven."--Moniteur,
XXX., 653. "Plan of the fête in honor of the Supreme Being, drawn up by David, and decreed
by the National Convention."]

[Footnote 31164: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 176. (Narrative by Valate.)]

[Footnote 31165: Hamel, III., 541.]

[Footnote 31166: Buchez et Roux, XXVIII., 178, 180.]

[Footnote 31167: Ibid., 177 (Narrative by Vilate.) Ibid., 170, Notes by Robespierre on Bourdon
(de l'Oise) 417. Passages erased by Robespierre in the manuscript of his speech of Thermidor
8.--249. Analogous passages in his speech as delivered,--all these indications enable us to
trace the depths of his resentment.]

[Footnote 31168: Ibid., 183. Memoirs of Billaud-Varennes, Collot d'Herbois, Vadier and Barère.
"The next day after Prairial 22, at the morning session (of the committee of Public Safety)....
I now see, says Robespierre, that I stand alone, with nobody to support me, and, getting violently
excited, he launched out against the members of the committee who had conspired against him.
He shouted so loud as to collect together a number of citizens on the Tuileries terrace." Finally,
"he pushed hypocrisy so far as to shed tears." The nervous machine, I imagine, broke down.--Another
member of the committee, Prieur, (Carnot, "Mémoires," II., 525), relates that, in the month
of Floréal, after another equally long and violent session, "Robespierre, exhausted, became ill."]

[Footnote 31169: Carnot, "Mémoires," II. 526. "As his bureau was in a separate place, where
none of us set foot, he could retire to it without coming in contact with any of us, as in
effect, he did. He even made a pretence of passing through the committee rooms, after the session
was over, and he signed some papers; but he really neglected nothing, except our common discussions.
He held frequent conferences in his house with the presidents of the revolutionary tribunals,
over which his influence was greater than ever."]

[Footnote 31170: Dauban, "Paris en 1794," 563.--Archives Nationales, AF.II., 58. The signature
of Robespierre, in his own handwriting, is found affixed to many of the resolutions of the
Committee of Public Safety, passed Thermidor 5 and 7, and those of St. Just and Couthon after
this, up to Thermidor 3, 6 and 7. On the register of the minutes of the Committee of Public
Safety, Robespierre is always recorded as present at all meetings between Messidor 1 and Thermidor
8, inclusive.]

[Footnote 31171: Archives Nationales, F.7, 4438. Report to the Committee of Public Safety by
Herman, Commissioner of the civil and Police administrations and of the Courts, Messidor 3,
year II. "The committee charged with a general supervision of the prisons, and obliged to recognize
that all the rascals mostly concerned with liberticide plots are.... still in the prisons,
forming a band apart, and rendering surveillance very troublesome; they are a constant source
of disorder, always getting up attempts to escape, being a daily assemblage of persons devoting
themselves wholly to imprecations against liberty and its defenders.... It would be easy to
point out in each prison, those who have served, and are to serve, the diverse factions, the
diverse conspiracies.... It may be necessary, perhaps, to purge the prisons at once and free
the soil of liberty of their filth, the refuse of humanity." The Committee of Public Safety
consequently "charges the commission to ascertain in the prisons of Paris... who have been
more specially concerned in the diverse factions and conspiracies that the National convention
has destroyed." The word "approved" appears at the foot of the resolution in Robespierre's
handwriting, then the signature of Robespierre, and lower down, those of Billaud and Barère.
A similar resolution providing for the 7th of Messidor, signed by the same parties and five
others, is dispatched the same day. (M. de Martel came across and made use of this conclusive
document before I did, most of it being quoted in "Les Types Revolutionnaires.")]

[Footnote 31172: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 434.]

CHAPTER II. THE RULERS OF THE COUNTRY.

Let us follow the operations of the new government from top to bottom, from those of its ruling
bodies and leaders, to its assemblies, committees, delegates, administrators and underlings
of every kind and degree. Like living flesh stamped with a red-hot iron, so will the situation
put one their brows the two marks, each with its own different depth and discoloration. In
vain do they, too, strive to conceal their scars: we detect under the crowns and titles they
assume the brand of the slave or the mark of the tyrant.

I. The Convention.

     The Convention.--The "Plain."--The "Mountain."--Degradation
     of Souls.--Parades which the Convention is obligated to
     make.

At the Tuileries, the omnipotent Convention sits enthroned in the theater, converted into an
Assembly room. It carries on its deliberations daily, in grand style. Its decrees, received
with blind obedience, startle France and upset all Europe. At a distance, its majesty is imposing,
more august than that of the Republican senate in Rome. Near by, the effect is quite otherwise;
these undisputed sovereigns are serfs who live in trances, and justly so, for, nowhere, even
in prison, is there more constraint and less security than on their benches. After the 2nd
of June, 1793, their inviolable precincts, the grand official reservoir from which legal authority
flows, becomes a sort of tank, into which the revolutionary net plunges and successfully brings
out its choicest fish, singly or by the dozen, and sometimes in vast numbers; at first, the
sixty-seven Girondist deputies, who are executed or proscribed; then, the seventy-three members
of the "Right," swept off in one day and lodged in the prison of La Force; next, the prominent
Jacobins:

Osselin, arrested on the 19th of Brumaire, Bazire, Chabot, and Delaunay, accused by decree
on the 24th Brumaire, Fabre d'Eglantine, arrested on the 24th of Nivôse, Bernard, guillotined
on the 3rd of Pluviôse, Anacharsis Clootz guillotined on the 4th of Germinal, Hérault de Séchelles,
Lacroix, Philippeaux, Camille Desmoulins and Danton, guillotined with four others on the 10th
of Germinal, Simon, guillotined on the 24th of Germinal, and Osselin, guillotined on the 8th
of Messidor.--Naturally, the others take warning and are careful. At the opening of the session
they are seen entering the hall, looking uneasy, full of distrust,"[3201] like animals driven
into a pen and suspicious of a trap.

"Each," writes an eye-witness, "acted and spoke with circumspection, for fear of being charged
with some crime: in effect, nothing was unimportant, the seat one took, a glance of the eye,
a gesture, a murmur, a smile."

Hence, they flock instinctively to the side which is best sheltered, the left side.

"The tide flowed towards the summit of the Mountain; the right side was deserted.... Many took
no side at all, and, during the session, often changed their seats, thinking that they might
thus elude the spy by donning a mixed hue and keeping on good terms with everybody. The most
prudent never sat down; they kept off the benches, at the foot of the tribune, and, on matters
getting to be serious, slipped quietly out of the hall."

Most of them took refuge in their committee-rooms; each tries to be over-looked, to be obscure,
to appear insignificant or absent.[3202] During the four months following the 2nd of June,
the hall of the Convention is half or three-quarters empty; the election of a president does
not bring out two hundred and fifty voters;[3203] only two hundred, one hundred, fifty votes,
elect the Committees of Public Safety and General Security; about fifty votes elect the judges
of the Revolutionary Tribunal; less than ten votes elect their substitutes;[3204] not one vote
is cast for the adoption of the decree indicting the deputy, Dulaure;[3205] "no member rises
for or against it; there is no vote;" the president, nevertheless, pronounces the act passed
and the Marais lets things take their course."--"Marais frogs"[3206] is the appellation bestowed
on them before the 2nd of June, when, amongst the dregs of the "Center," they "broke" with
the "Mountain;" now, they still number four hundred and fifty, three times as many as the "Montagnards;"
but they purposely keep quiet; their old name "renders them, so to say, soft; their ears ring
with eternal menaces; their hearts shrivel up with terror;[3207] while their tongues, paralyzed
by habitual silence, remain as if glued to the roofs of their mouths. In vain do they keep
in the back-ground, consent to everything, ask nothing for themselves but personal safety,
and surrender all else, their votes, their wills and their consciences; they feel that their
life hangs by a thread. The greatest mute among them all, Siéyès, denounced in the Jacobin
Club, barely escapes, and through the protection of his shoemaker, who rises and exclaims:
"That Siéyès! I know him. He don't meddle with politics. He does nothing but read his book.
I make his shoes and will answer for him."[3208]

Of course, previous to the 9th of Thermidor, none of them open their mouths; it is only the
"Montagnards" who make speeches, and on the countersign being given. If Legendre, the admirer,
disciple and confidential friend of Danton, dares at one time interfere in relation to the
decree which sends his friend to the scaffold, asking that he may first be heard, it is only
to retract immediately; that very evening, at the Jacobin club, for greater security, "he wallows
in the mud;"[3209] he declares "that he submits to the judgment of the revolutionary Tribunal,"
and swears to denounce "whoever shall oppose any obstacle to the execution of the decree."[3210]
Has not Robespierre taught him a lesson, and in his most pedantic manner? What is more beautiful,
says the great moralist, more sublime, than an Assembly which purges itself?[3211]--Thus, not
only is the net which has already dragged out so many palpitating victims still intact, but
it is enlarged and set again, only, the fish are now caught on the "Left" as well as on the
"Right," and preferably on the topmost benches of the "Mountain."[3212] And better still, through
the law of Prairial 22, its meshes are reduced in size and its width increased; with such admirable
contraption, the fishpond could not fail to be exhausted. A little before the 9th of Thermidor,
David, who was one of Robespierre's devoted adherents, himself exclaimed: "Will twenty of us
be left on the Mountain?" About the same time, Legendic, Thuriot, Léonard Bourdon, Tallien,
Bourdon de l'Oise, and others, each has a spy all day long at his heels. There are thirty deputies
to be proscribed and their names are whispered about; whereupon, sixty stay out all night,
convinced that they will be seized the next morning before they can get up.[3213]

Subject to such a system, prolonged for so many months, people sink down and become discouraged.
"Everybody made themselves small so as to pass beneath the popular yoke.[3214] Everybody became
one of the low class.... Clothes, manners, refinement, cleanliness, the conveniences of life,
civility and politeness were all renounced."--People wear their clothes indecently and curse
and swear; they try to resemble the sans-culottes Montagnards "who are profane and dress themselves
like so many dock-loafers;"[3215] at Armonville, the carder, who presides (at a meeting) wears
a woolen cap, and similarly at Cusset, a gauze-workman, who is always drunk. Only Robespierre
dares appear in neat attire; among the others, who do not have his influence, among the demi-suspects
with a pot-belly, such a residue of the ancient régime might become dangerous; they do well
not to attract the attention of the foul-mouthed spy who cannot spell;[3216] especially is
it important at a meeting to be one of the crowd and remain unnoticed by the paid claqueurs,
drunken swaggerers and "fat petticoats" of the tribunes. It is even essential to shout in harmony
with them and join in their bar-room dances. The deputations of the popular clubs come for
fourteen months to the bar of the house and recite their common-place or bombastic tirades,
and the Convention is forced to applaud them. For nine months,[3217] street ballad-singers
and coffee-house ranters attend in full session and sing the rhymes of the day, while the Convention
is obliged to join in the chorus. For six weeks,[3218] the profaners of churches come to the
hall and display their dance-house buffooneries, and the Convention has not only to put up
with these, but also to take part in them.--Never, even in imperial Rome, under Nero and Heliogabalus,
did a senate descend so low.

II. Its participation in crime.

     How the parades are carried out.--Its slavery and servility
     --Its participation in crime.

Observe one of their parades, that of Brumaire 20th, 22nd or 30th, which masquerade often occurs
several times a week and is always the same, with scarcely any variation.--Male and female
wretches march in procession to the doors of the deputies' hall, still "drunk with the wine
imbibed from chalices, after eating mackerel broiled in patens," besides refreshing themselves
on the way. "Mounted astride of asses which they have rigged out in chasuble and which they
guide with a stole," they halt at each low smoking-den, holding a drinking cup in their hand;
the bartender, with a mug in his hand, fills it, and, at each station, they toss off their
bumpers, one after the other, in imitation of the Mass, and which they repeat in the street
in their own fashion.--On finishing this, they don copes, chasubles and dalmatica, and, in
two long lines, file before the benches of the Convention. Some of them bear on hand-barrows
or in baskets, candelabra, chalices, gold and silver salvers, monstrances, and reliquaries;
others hold aloft banners, crosses and other ecclesiastical spoils. In the mean time "bands
play the air of the carmagnole and 'Malbrook.'... On the entry of the dais, they strike up
'Ah! le bel oiseau;'"[3219] all at once the masqueraders throw off their disguise, and, mitres,
stoles, chasubles flung in the air, "disclose to view the defenders of the country in the national
uniform." Peals of laughter, shouts and enthusiasm, while the instrumental din becomes louder!
The procession, now in full blast, demands the carmagnole, and the Convention consents; even
some of the deputies descend from their benches and cut the pigeon-wing with the merry prostitutes.--To
wind up, the Convention decrees that it will attend that evening the fête of Reason and, in
fact, they go in a body. Behind an actress in short petticoats wearing a red cap, representing
Liberty or Reason, march the deputies, likewise in red caps, shouting and singing until they
reach the new temple, which is built of planks and pasteboard in the choir of Notre Dame. They
take their seats in the front rows, while the Goddess, an old frequenter of the suppers of
the Duc de Soubise, along with "all the pretty dames of the Opera," display before them their
operatic graces.[3220] They sing the "Hymn to Liberty," and, since the Convention has that
morning decreed that it must sing, I suppose that it also joined in.[3221] After this there
follows dancing; but, unfortunately, the authorities are wanting for stating whether the Convention
danced or not. In any event, it is present at the dance, and thus consecrates an unique orgy,
not Rubens' "Kermesse" in the open air, racy and healthy, but a nocturnal boulevard-jollification,
a "Mardi-gras" composed of lean and haggard scapegraces.--In the great nave of the Cathedral,
"the dancers, almost naked, with bare necks and breasts, and stockings down at the heel," writhe
and stamp, "howling the carmagnole." In the side chapels, which are "shut off by high tapestries,
prostitutes with shrill voices" pursue their avocation.[3222]--To descend to this low level
so barefacedly, to fraternise with barrier sots, and wenches, to endure their embraces and
hiccoughs, is bad enough, even for docile deputies. More than one half of them loathed it beforehand
and remained at home; after this they do not feel disposed to attend the Convention.[3223]--But
the "Mountain sends for them, and an officer brings them back;" it is necessary that they should
co-operate through their presence and felicitations in the profanations and apostasies which
follow;[3224] it is necessary that they should approve of and decree that which they hold in
horror, not alone folly and nonsense, but crime, the murder of innocent people, and that of
their friends.--All this is done. Nothing but imminent, personal, mortal danger could, in these
prostrated beings, supplant long-continued fear with still greater fear. Later on, Siéyès,
on being asked how he acted in these times, replied, "I lived." In effect, he and others are
reduced to that; they succeeded in doing this, at all costs, and at what a price![3230] His
secret notes, his most private sketches confirm this[3231]...

"On the Committee of March 20, "Paillasse, half drunk, gives a dissertation on the way to carry
on the war, and interrogates and censures the Minister. The poor Minister evades his questions
with café gossip and a review of campaigns. These are the men placed at the head of the government
to save the Republic!"--"H...., in his distraction, had the air of a sly fox inwardly smiling
at his own knavish thoughts. Ruit irrevocabile vulgus... Jusque Datum sceleri."--"Are you keeping
silent?"--"Of what use is my glass of wine in this torrent of ardent spirits?"--

All this is very well, but he did not merely keep silent and abstain. He voted, legislated
and decreed, along with the unanimous Convention; he was a collaborator, not only passively,
through his presence, but also through his active participation in the acts of the government
which he elected and enthroned, re-elected twelve times, cheered every week, and flattered
daily, authorizing and keeping on to the end its work of spoliation and massacre.

"Everybody is guilty here," said Carrier in the Convention, "even to the president's bell."

In vain do they constantly repeat to themselves that they were forced to obey under penalty
of death: the conscience of the purest among them, if he has any, replies:

"You too, in spite of yourself, I admit; less than others, if you please, but you were a terrorist,
that is to say, a brigand and an assassin."[3232]

III. The Committee of Public Safety.

     The Men who do the work.--Carnot, Prieur de-la-Côte d'Or,
     Jean Bon Saint André, Robert Lindet.

On a man becoming a slave, said old Homer, the Gods take away the half of his soul; the same
is true of a man who becomes a tyrant.--In the Pavilion de Flore, alongside of and above the
enslaved Convention, sit the twelve kings it has enthroned, twice a day,[3233] ruling over
it as well as over France.[3234] Of course, some guarantee is required from those who fill
this place; there is not one of them who is not a revolutionary of long standing, an impenitent
regicide, a fanatic in essence and a despot through principle; but the fumes of omnipotence
have not intoxicated them all to the same degree.--Three or four of them, Robert Lindet, Jean
Bon St. André, Prieur de la Côte-d'Or and Carnot, confine themselves to useful and secondary
duties; this suffices to keep them partially safe. As specialists, charged with an important
service, their first object is to do this well, and hence they subordinate the rest to this,
even theoretical exigencies and the outcries of the clubs.

Lindet's prime object is to feed the departments that are without wheat, and the towns that
are soon to be short of bread.

Prieur's business is to see that biscuits, brandy, clothes, shoes, gunpowder and arms are manufactured.[3235]

Jean Bon, that vessels are equipped and crews drilled.

Carnot, to draw up campaign plans and direct the march of armies: the dispatch of so many bags
of grain during the coming fortnight to this or that town, or warehouse in this or that district;
the making up of so many weekly rations, to be deported during the month to certain places
on the frontier; the transformation of so many fishermen into artillerymen or marines, and
to set afloat so many vessels in three months; to expedite certain Corps of Cavalry, infantry
and artillery, so as to arrive by such and such roads at this or that pass--

These are precise combinations which purge the brain of dogmatic phrases, which force revolutionary
jargon into the background and keep a man sensible and practical; and all the more because
three of them, Jean Bon, former captain of a merchantman, Prieur and Carnot, engineering officers,
are professional men and go to the front to put their shoulders to the wheel on the spot. Jean
Bon, always visiting the coasts, goes on board a vessel of the fleet leaving Brest to save
the great American convoy; Carnot, at Watignies, orders Jourdan to make a decisive move, and,
shouldering his musket, marches along with the attacking column.[3236] Naturally, they have
no leisure for speechmaking in the Jacobin club, or for intrigues in the Convention: Carnot
lives in his own office and in the committee-room; he does not allow himself time enough to
eat with his wife, dines on a crust of bread and a glass of lemonade, and works sixteen and
eighteen hours a day;[3237] Lindet, more overtasked than any body else, because hunger will
not wait, reads every report himself, and passes days and nights at it;"[3238] Jean Bon, in
wooden shoes and woolen vest, with a bit of coarse bread and a glass of bad beer,[3239] writes
and dictates until his strength fails him, and he has to lie down and sleep on a mattress on
the floor.--Naturally, again, when interfered with, and the tools in their hands are broken,
they are dissatisfied; they know well the worth of a good instrument, and for the service,
as they comprehend it, good tools are essential, competent, faithful employees, regular in
attendance at their offices, and not at the club. When they have a subordinate of this kind
they defend him, often at the risk of their lives, even to incurring the enmity of Robespierre.
Cambon,[3240] who, on his financial committee, is also a sort of sovereign, retains at the
Treasury five or six hundred employees unable to procure their certificate of civism, and whom
the Jacobins incessantly denounce so as to get their places. Carnot saves and employs eminent
engineers, D'Arcon, de Montalembert, d'Obenheim, all of them nobles, and one of them an anti-Jacobin,
without counting a number of accused officers whom he justifies, replaces, or maintains.[3241]--Through
these courageous and humane acts, they solace themselves for their scruples, at least partially
and for the time being; moreover, they are statesmen only because the occasion and superior
force makes it imperative, more led by others than leading, terrorists through accident and
necessity, rather than through system and instinct. If, in concert with ten others, Prieur
and Carnot order wholesale robbery and murder, if they sign orders by twenties and hundreds,
amounting to assassinations, it is owing to their forming part of a body. When the whole committee
deliberates, they are bound, in important decrees, to submit to the preponderating opinion
of the majority, after voting in the negative. In relation to secondary decrees, in which there
has been no preliminary discussion in common, the only responsible member is the one whose
signature stands first; the following signatures affixed, without reading the document, are
simply a "formality which the law requires," merely a visa, necessarily mechanical; with "four
or five hundred business matters to attend to daily," it is impossible to do otherwise. To
read all and vote in every case, would be "a physical impossibility."[3242]--Finally, as things
are, "is not the general will, at least the apparent general will, that alone on which the
government can decide, itself ultra-revolutionary?"[3243] In other words, should not the five
or six rascals in a State who vociferate, be listened to, rather than a hundred honest folks
who keep their mouths shut? With this sophism, gross as it is, but of pure Jacobin manufacture,
Carnot ends by hoodwinking his honor and his conscience; otherwise intact, and far more so
than his colleagues, he likewise undergoes moral and mental mutilation; constrained by the
duties of his post and the illusions of his creed, he succeeded in an inward decapitation of
the two noblest of human faculties, common-sense, the most useful, and the moral sense, the
most exalted of all.

IV. The Statesmen.

     Billaud-Varennes, Collot d'Herbois, Robespierre, Couthon and
     Saint-Just.--Conditions of this rule.--Dangers to which they
     are subject.--Their dissensions.--Pressure of Fear and
     Theory.

If such are the ravages which are made in an upright, firm and healthy personality, what must
be the havoc in corrupt or weak natures, in which bad instincts already predominate!--And note
that they are without the protection provided by a pursuit of some specific and useful objective.
They are "government men," also "revolutionaries" or "the people in total control;"[3244] they
are in actual fact men with an overall concept of things, also direct these. The creation,
organization and application of Terror belongs wholly to them; they are the constructors, regulators
and engineers of the machine,[3245] the recognized heads of the party, of the sect and of the
government, especially Billaud and Robespierre, who never serve on missions,[3246] nor relax
their hold for a moment on the central motor. The former, an active politician, with Collot
for his second, is charged with urging on the constituted authorities, the districts, the municipalities,
the national agents, the revolutionary committees, and the representatives on mission in the
interior.[3247] The latter, a theologian, moralist, titular doctor and preacher, is charged
with ruling the Convention and indoctrinating the Jacobins with sound principles; behind him
stands Couthon, his lieutenant, with Saint-Just, his disciple and executor of works of great
importance; in their midst, Barère, the Committee's mouthpiece, is merely a tool, but indispensable,
conveniently at hand and always ready to start whatever drum-beating is required on any given
theme in honor of the party which stuffs his brain. Below these comes the Committee of General
Security, Vadier, Amar, Vouland, Guffroy, Panis, David, Jagot and the rest, those who undertook,
reported on, and acted in behalf of universal proscription. All these bear the imprint of their
service; they could be recognized by "their pallid hue, hollow and bloodshot eyes,"[3248] habits
of omnipotence stamped "on their brows, and on their deportment, something indescribably haughty
and disdainful. The Committee of General Security reminded one of the former lieutenants of
police, and the Committee of Public Safety, of the former ministers of state." In the Convention,
"it is considered an honor to talk with them, and a privilege to shake hands with them; one
seems to read one's duty on their brows." On the days on which their orders are to be converted
into laws "the members of the Committee and the reporter of the bill, keep people waiting,
the same as the heads and representatives of the former sovereign power; on their way to the
Assembly hall, they are preceded by a group of courtiers who seem to announce the masters of
the world."[3249]--In fact, they reign--but observe on what conditions.

"Make no complaints," said Barère,[3250] to the composer of an opera, the performance of which
had just been suspended: "as times go, you must not attract public attention. Do we not all
stand at the foot of the guillotine, all, beginning with myself?" Again, twenty years later,
in a private conversation, on being interrogated as to the veritable object, the secret motive
of the Committee of Public Safety, he replied:

"As we were animated by but one sentiment,[3251] my dear sir, that of self-preservation, we
had but one desire, that of maintaining an existence which each of us believed to be menaced.
You had your neighbor guillotined to prevent your neighbor from guillotining you."[3252]

The same apprehension exists in stouter souls, although there may have been, along with fear,
motives of a less debased order.

"How many times," says Carnot,[3253] "we undertook some work that required time, with the conviction
that we should not be allowed to complete it!"--"It was uncertain[3254] whether, the next time
the clock struck the hour, we should not be standing before the revolutionary Tribunal on our
way to the scaffold without, perhaps, having had time to bid adieu to our families.... We pursued
our daily task so as not to let the machine stand still, as if a long life were before us,
when it was probable that we should not see the next day's sun."

It is impossible to count on one's life, or that of another, for twenty-four hours; should
the iron hand which holds one by the throat tighten its grasp, all will be over that evening.

"There were certain days so difficult that one could see no way to control circumstances; those
who were directly menaced resigned themselves wholly to chance."[3255]--"The decisions for
which we are so much blamed," says another,[3256] "were not generally thought of two days,
or one day, beforehand; they sprung out of the crisis of the moment. We did not desire to kill
for the sake of killing... but to conquer at all hazards, remain masters, and ensure the sway
of our principles."--That is true,--they are subjects as well as despots. At the Committee
table, during their nocturnal sessions, their sovereign presides, a formidable figure, the
revolutionary Idea which confers on them the right to slay, on condition of exercising it against
everybody, and therefore on themselves. Towards two o'clock, or three o'clock in the morning,
exhausted, out of words and ideas, not knowing where to slay, on the right or on the left,
they anxiously turn to this figure and try to read its will in its fixed eyes.

"Who shall fall to-morrow?"--

Ever the same reply steadily expressed on the features of the impassable phantom: "the counter-revolutionaries,"
under which name is comprised all who by act, speech, thought or inmost sentiment, either through
irritation or carelessness, through humanity or moderation, through egoism or nonchalance,
through passive, neutral or indifferent feeling, serve well or ill the Revolution.[3257]--All
that remains is to add names to this horribly comprehensive decree. Shall Billaud do it? Shall
Robespierre do it? Will Billaud put down Robespierre's name, or Robespierre put down Billaud's,
or each the name of the other, with those he chooses to select from among the two Committees?
Osselin, Chabot, Bazire, Julien de Toulouse, Lacroix, Danton, were on them, and when they left,
their heads fell.[3258] Hérault-Séchelles, again, was on them, maintained in office with honor
through the recent approbation of the Convention,[3259] one of the titular twelve, and on duty
when an order issued by the other eleven suddenly handed him over to the revolutionary Tribunal
for execution.--Whose turn is it now among the eleven? Seized unawares, the docile Convention
unanimously applauding, after three days of a judicial farce, the cart will bear him to the
Place de la Révolution; Samson will tie him fast, shouters at thirty sous a day will clap their
hands, and, on the following morning, the popular politicians will congratulate each other
on seeing the name of a great traitor on the bulletin of the guillotined.[3260] To this end,
to enable this or that king of the day to pass from the national Almanac to the mortuary list,
merely required an understanding among his colleagues, and, perhaps, this is already arrived
at. Among whom and against whom?--It is certain that, as this idea occurs to the eleven, seated
around the table, they eye each other with a shudder they calculate the chances and turn things
over in their minds; words have been uttered that are not forgotten. Carnot often made this
charge against Saint-Just: "You and Robespierre are after a dictatorship."[3261] Robespierre
replied to Carnot: "I am ready for you on the first defeat."[3262] On another occasion, Robespierre,
in a rage, exclaimed: "The Committee is conspiring against me!" and, turning to Billaud, "I
know you, now!" Billaud retorted, "I know you too, you are a counter-revolutionary!"[3263]
There are conspirators and counter-revolutionaries, then, on the committee itself; what can
be done to avoid this appellation, which is a sentence of death?--Silently, the fatal phantom
enthroned in their midst, the Erinyes[3264] through which they rule, renders his oracle and
all take it to heart:

"All who are unwilling to become executioners are conspirators and counter-revolutionaries."

V. Official Jacobin organs.

     Official Jacobin organs.--Reports by Saint-Just are Barère.
     --Quality of reports and reporters.

Thus do they march along during twelve months, goaded on by the two sharp thongs of theory
and fear, traversing the red pool which they have created, and which is daily becoming deeper
and deeper, all together and united, neither of them daring to separate from the group, and
each spattered with the blood thrown in his face by the others' feet. It is not long before
their eyesight fails them; they no longer see their way, while the degradation of their language
betrays the stupor of their intellect.--When a government brings to the tribune and moves the
enactment of important laws, it confronts the nation, faces Europe, and takes a historical
position. If it cares for its own honor it will select reporters of bills that are not unworthy,
and instruct them to support these with available arguments, as closely reasoned out as possible;
the bill, discussed and adopted in full council, will show the measure of its capacity, the
information it possesses and its common-sense.

To estimate all this, read the bills put forth in the name of the Committee; weigh the preambles,
remark the tone, listen to the two reporters usually chosen, Saint-Just, who draws up the acts
of proscription, special or general, and Barère, who draws up all acts indifferently, but particularly
military announcements and decrees against the foreigner; never did public personages, addressing
France and posterity, use such irrational arguments and state falsehoods with greater impudence.[3265]

The former, stiff in his starched cravat, posing "like the Holy Ghost," more didactic and more
absolute than Robespierre himself, comes and proclaims to Frenchmen from the tribune, equality,
probity, frugality, Spartan habits, and a rural cot with all the voluptuousness of virtue;[3266]
this suits admirably the chevalier Saint-Just, a former applicant for a place in the Count
d'Artois' body-guard, a domestic thief, a purloiner of silver plate which he takes to Paris,
sells and spends on prostitutes, imprisoned for six months on complaint of his own mother,[3267]
and author of a lewd poem which he succeeds in rendering filthy by trying to render it fanciful.--Now,
indeed, he is grave; he no longer leers; he kills--but with what arguments, and what a style![3268]
The young Laubardemont as well as the paid informers and prosecutors of imperial Rome, have
less disgraced the human intellect, for these creatures of a Tiberius or a Richelieu still
used plausible arguments in their reasoning, and with more or less adroitness. With Saint-Just,
there is no connection of ideas; there is no sequence or march in his rhapsody; like an instrument
strained to the utmost, his mind plays only false notes in violent fits and starts; logical
continuity, the art then so common of regularly developing a theme, has disappeared; he stumbles
over the ground, piling up telling aphorisms and dogmatic axioms. In dealing with facts there
is nothing in his speech but a perversion of the truth; impostures abound in it of pure invention,
palpable, as brazen as those of a charlatan in his booth;[3269] he does not even deign to disguise
them with a shadow of probability; as to the Girondists, and as to Danton, Fabre d'Eglantine
and his other adversaries, whoever they may be, old or new, any rope to hang them with suffices
for him; any rough, knotted, badly-twisted cord he can lay his hands on, no matter what, provided
it strangles, is good enough; there is no need of a finer one for confirmed conspirators; with
the gossip of the club and an Inquisition catechism, he can frame his bill of indictment.--Accordingly,
his intellect grasps nothing and yields him nothing; he is a sententious and overexcited declaimer,
an artificial spirit always on the stretch, full of affectations,[3270] his talent reducing
itself down to the rare flashes of a somber imagination, a pupil of Robespierre, as Robespierre
himself is a pupil of Rousseau, the exaggerated scholar of a plodding scholar, always rabidly
ultra, furious through calculation, deliberately violating both language and ideas,[3271] confining
himself to theatrical and funereal paradoxes, a sort of "grand vizier"[3272] with the airs
of an exalted moralist and the bearing of the sentimental shepherd.[3273] Were one of a mocking
humor one might shrug one's shoulders; but, in the present state of the Convention, there is
no room for anything but fear. Launched in imperious tones, his phrases fall upon their ears
in monotonous strokes, on bowed heads, and, after five or six blows from this leaden hammer,
the stoutest are stretched out stupefied on the ground; discussion is out of the question;
when Saint-Just, in the name of the Convention, affirms anything, it must be believed; his
dissertation is a peremptory injunction and not an effort of reason; it commands obedience;
it is not open to examination; it is not a report which he draws from his coat pocket, but
a bludgeon.

The other reporter, Barère, is of quite another stamp, a "patent-right" haranguer, an amusing
Gascon, alert, "free and easy," fond of a joke, even on the Committee of Public Safety,[3274]
unconcerned in the midst of assassinations, and, to the very last, speaking of the reign of
Terror as "the simplest and most innocent thing in the world."[3275] No man was ever less trammeled
by a conscience; in truth, he has several, that of two days ago, that of the previous day,
that of the present day, that of the morrow, of the following day, and still others, as many
as you like, all equally pliant and supple, at the service of the strongest against the weakest,
ready to swing round at once on the wind changing, but all joined together and working to one
common end through physical instinct, the only one that lasts in the immoral, adroit and volatile
being who circulates nimbly about, with no other aim than self-preservation, and to amuse himself.[3276]--In
his dressing-gown, early in the morning, he receives a crowd of solicitors, and, with the ways
of a "dandified minister," graciously accepts the petitions handed to him; first, those of
ladies, "distributing gallantries among the prettiest;" he makes promises, and smiles, and
then, returning to his cabinet, throws the papers in the fire: "There," he says, my correspondence
is done."--He sups twice every decade in his fine house at Clichy, along with three more than
accommodating pretty women; he is gay, awarding flatteries and attentions quite becoming to
an amiable protector: he enters into their professional rivalries, their spites against the
reigning beauty, their jealousy of another who wears a blonde wig and pretends "to set the
fashion." He sends immediately for the National Agent and gravely informs him that this head-dress,
borrowed from the guillotined, is a rallying point for anti-revolutionaries, whereupon, the
next day, wigs are denounced at the Commune-council, and suppressed; "Barère roared with laughter
on alluding to this piece of fun." The humor of an undertaker and the dexterity of a commercial
drummer: he plays with Terror.--In like manner he plays with his reports, and at this latter
exercise, he improvises; he is never embarrassed; it is simply necessary to turn the faucet
and the water runs. "Had he any subject to treat, he would fasten himself on Robespierre, Hérault,
Saint-Just, or somebody else, and draw them out; he would then rush off to the tribune and
spin out their ideas; "they were all astonished at hearing their thoughts expressed as fully
as if reflected in a mirror." No individual on the Committee, or in the Convention, equaled
him in promptness and fluency, for the reason that he was not obliged to think before he spoke:
with him, the faculty of speaking, like an independent organ, acted by itself, the empty brain
or indifferent heart contributing nothing to his loquacity. Naturally, whatever issues from
his mouth comes forth in ready-made bombast, the current jargon of the Jacobin club, sonorous,
nauseous commonplace, schoolboy metaphors and similes derived from the shambles.[3277] Not
an idea is found in all this rhetoric, nothing acquired, no real mental application. When Bonaparte,
who employed everybody, even Fouché, were disposed to employ Barère, they could make nothing
out of him for lack of substance, except as a low newsmonger, common spy, or agent engaged
to stir up surviving Jacobins; later on, a listener at keyholes, and a paid weekly collector
of public rumors, he was not even fit for this vile service, for his wages were soon stopped
Napoleon, who, having no time to waste, cut short his driveling verbiage.--It is this verbiage
which, authorized by the Committee of Public Safety, now forms the eloquence of France; it
is this manufacturer of phrases by the dozen, this future informer and prison-spy under the
empire, this frolicking inventor of the blonde-wig conspiracy, that the government sends into
the tribune to announce victories, trumpet forth military heroism and proclaim war unto death.
On the 7th of Prairial,[3278] Barère, in the name of the committee, proposes a return to savage
law: "No English or Hanoverian prisoner shall henceforth be made;" the decree is endorsed by
Carnot and passes the Convention unanimously. Had it been executed, as reprisals, and according
to the proportion of prisoners, there would have been for one Englishman shot, three Frenchmen
hung: honor and humanity would have disappeared from the camps; the hostilities between Christians
would have become as deadly as among savages. Happily, French soldiers felt the nobleness of
their profession; on the order being given to shoot the prisoners, a decent sergeant replied:

"We will not shoot--send them to the Convention. If the representatives delight in killing
prisoners--let them do it themselves, and eat them, too, savages as they are!"

The sergeant, an ordinary man, is not on a level with the Committee, or with Barère; and yet
Barère did his best in a bill of indictment of twenty-seven pages, full of grand flourishes,
every possible ritornello, glaring falsehood and silly inflation, explaining how "the Britannic
leopard" paid assassins to murder the representatives; how the London cabinet had armed little
Cécile Renault, "the new Corday," against Robespierre; how the Englishman, naturally barbarous,
"is unable to deny his origins; how he descends from the Carthaginians and Phenicians, and
formerly dealt in the skins of wild beasts and slaves; how his trading occupation is not changed;
how Cesar, formerly, on landing in the country, found nothing but a ferocious tribe battling
with wolves in the forest and threatening to burn every vessel which would try to land there;
and how he still remains like that." A lecture from a fairground surgeon who, using bombastic
words, recommends extensive amputations, a fairground-prospectus so crude that it does not
even deceive a poor sergeant,--such is the exposition of motives by a government for the purpose
of enforcing a decree that might have been drawn up by redskins; to horrible acts he adds debased
language, and employs the inept to justify their atrocities.

VI. Commissars of the Revolution.

     Representatives on Mission.--Their absolute power.--Their
     perils and their fear.--Fit for their work.--Effect of this
     situation.

A hundred or so representatives of the Committee of Public Safety, are sent to the provinces,
"with unlimited power," to establish, enforce or exacerbate the revolutionary government, and
their proclamations at once explain the nature of this government.[3279]--"Brave and vigorous
sans-culottes!" writes a deputy on leaving a mission and announcing his successor,[3280] "You
seem to have desired a good b... of a representative, who has never swerved from his principles,
that is to say, a regular Montagnard. I have fulfilled your wishes, and you will have the same
thing in citizen Ingrand. Remember, brave sans-culottes, that, with the patriot Ingrand, you
can do everything, get anything, cancel whatever you please, imprison, bring to trial, deport
and guillotine every-body and regenerate society. Don't try to play with him; everybody is
afraid of him, he overcomes all resistance and restores at once the most complete order!"--The
representative arrives at the center of the department by post, and presents his credentials.
All the authorities at once bow to the ground. In the evening, in his saber and plume, he harangues
the popular club, blowing into a flame the smoldering embers of Jacobinism. Then, according
to his personal acquaintances, if he has any in the place, or according to the votes of the
Committee of General Security, if he is a new-comer, he selects five or six of the "warmest
sans-culottes" there, and, forming them into a Revolutionary Committee, installs them permanently
at his side, sometimes in the same building, in a room next to his own, where, on lists or
with verbal communications furnished to him, he works with a will and without stopping.[3281]

First comes a purification of all the local authorities. They must always remember that "there
can be no exaggeration in behalf of the people; he who is not imbued with this principle, who
has not put it in practice, cannot remain on an advanced post;"[3282] consequently, at the
popular club, in the department, in the district, in the municipality, all doubtful men are
excluded, discharged, or incarcerated; if a few weak ones are retained provisionally, or by
favor, they are berated and taught their duty very summarily:

"They will strive, by a more energetic and assiduous patriotism, to atone for the evil committed
by them in not doing all the good they could do."

Sometimes, through a sudden change of scene, the entire administrative staff is kicked out
so as to give place to a no less complete staff, which the same kick brings up out of the ground.
Considering that "everything stagnates in Vaucluse, and that a frightful moderation paralyses
the most revolutionary measures," Maignet, in one order[3283] appoints the administrators and
secretary of the department, the national agent, the administrators and council-general of
the district, the administrators, council-general and national agent of Avignon, the president,
public prosecutor and recorder of the criminal court, members of the Tribunal de Commerce,
the collector of the district, the post-master and the head of the squadron of gendarmerie.
And the new functionaries will certainly go to work at once, each in his office. The summary
process, which has brusquely swept away the first set of puppets, is going to brusquely install
the second one. "Each citizen appointed to any of the above mentioned offices, shall betake
himself immediately to his post, under penalty of being declared suspect," on the simple notification
of his appointment. Universal and passive obedience of governors, as well as of the governed!
There are no more elected and independent functionaries; all the authorities, confirmed or
created by the representative, are in his hands; there is not one among them who does not subsist
or survive solely through his favor; there is not one of them who acts otherwise than according
to his approval or by his order. Directly, or through them, he makes requisitions, sequestrates
or confiscates as he sees fit, taxes, imprisons, transports or decapitates as he see fit, and,
in his circumscription, he is the pasha.

But he is a pasha with a chain around his neck, and at short tether.--From and after December,
1793, he is directed "to conform to the orders of the Committee of Public Safety and report
to it every ten days."[3284] The circumscription in which he commands is rigorously "limited;"
"he is reputed to be without power in the other departments,"[3285] while he is not allowed
to grow old on his post. "In every magistrature the grandeur and extent of power is compensated
by the shortness of its duration. Over-prolonged missions would soon be considered as birthrights."[3286]
Therefore, at the end of two or three months, often at the end of a month, the incumbent is
recalled to Paris or dispatched elsewhere, at short notice, on the day named, in a prompt,
absolute and sometimes threatening tone, not as a colleague one humors, but as a subordinate
who is suddenly and arbitrarily revoked or displaced because he is deemed inadequate, or "used
up." For greater security, oftentimes a member of the Committee, Couthon, Collot, Saint-Just,
or some near relation of a member of the Committee, a Lebas or young Robespierre, goes personally
to the spot to give the needed impulsion; sometimes, agents simply of the Committee, taken
from outside the Convention, and without any personal standing, quite young men, Rousselin,
Julien de la Drôme, replace or watch the representative with powers equal to his.--At the same
time, from the top and from the center, he is pushed on and directed: his local counselors
are chosen for him, and the directors of his conscience;[3287] they rate him soundly on the
choice of his agents or of his lodgings;[3288] they force dismissals on him, appointments,
arrests, executions; they spur him on in the path of terror and suffering.--Around him are
paid emissaries,[3289] while others watch him gratis and constantly write to the Committees
of Public Safety and General Security, often to denounce him, always to report on his conduct,
to judge his measures and to provoke the measures which he does not take.[3290]

Whatever he may have done or may do, he cannot turn his eyes toward Paris without seeing danger
ahead, a mortal danger which, on the Committee, in the Convention, at the Jacobin Club, increases
or will increase against him, like a tempest.--Briez, who, in Valenciennes under siege, showed
courage, and whom the Convention had just applauded and added to the Committee of Public Safety,
hears himself reproached for being still alive: "He who was at Valenciennes when the enemy
took it will never reply to this question--are you dead?"[3291] He has nothing to do now but
to declare himself incompetent, decline the honor mistakenly conferred on him by the Convention,
and disappear.--Dubois-Crancé took Lyons, and, as pay for this immense service, he is stricken
off the roll of the Jacobin Club; because he did not take it quick enough, he is accused of
treachery; two days after the capitulation, the Committee of Public Safety withdraw his powers;
three days after the capitulation, the Committee of Public Safety has him arrested and sent
to Paris under escort.[3292]--If such men after such services are thus treated, what is to
become of the others? After the mission of young Julien, then Carrier at Nantes, Ysabeau and
Tallien at Bordeaux, feel their heads shake on their shoulders; after the mission of Robespierre
jr. in the East and South, Barras, Fréron and Bernard de Saintes believe themselves lost.[3293]
Fouché, Rovère, Javogue, and how many others, compromised by the faction, Hébertists or Dantonists,
of which they are, or were belonging. Sure of perishing if their patrons on the Committee succumb;
not sure of living if their patrons keep their place; not knowing whether their heads will
not be exchanged for others; restricted to the narrowest, the most rigorous and most constant
orthodoxy; guilty and condemned should their orthodoxy of to-day become the heterodoxy of to-morrow.
All of them menaced, at first the hundred and eighty autocrats who, before the concentration
of the revolutionary government, ruled for eight months boundlessly in the provinces; next,
and above all, the fifty hard-fisted "Montagnards," unscrupulous fanatics or authoritarian
high livers, who, at this moment, tread human flesh under foot and spread out in arbitrariness
like wild boars in a forest, or wallow in scandal, like swine in a mud-pool.

There is no refuge for them, other than temporary, and temporary refuge only in zealous and
tried obedience, such as the Committee demands proof of, that is to say, through rigor.--"The
Committees so wanted it," says later on Maignet, the arsonist of Bédouin; "The Committees did
everything..... Circumstances controlled me. ... The patriotic agents conjured me not to give
way.... I did not fully carry out the most imperative orders."[3294] Similarly, the great exterminator
of Nantes, Carrier, when urged to spare the rebels who surrendered of their own accord:

"Do you want me to be guillotined? It is not in my power to save those people."[3295]

And another time:

"I have my orders; I must observe them; I do not want to have my head cut off!"

Under penalty of death, the representative on mission is a Terrorist, like his colleagues in
the Convention and on the Committee of Public Safety, but with a much more serious disturbance
of his nervous and his moral system; for he does not operate like them on paper, at a distance,
against categories of abstract, anonymous and vague beings; his work is not merely an effort
of the intellect, but also of the senses and the imagination. If he belongs to the region,
like Lecarpentier, Barras, Lebon, Javogue, Couthon, André Dumont and many others, he is well
acquainted with the families he proscribes; names to him are not merely so many letters strung
together, but they recall personal souvenirs and evoke living forms. At all events, he is the
spectator, artisan and beneficiary of his own dictatorship; the silver-plate and money he confiscates
passes under his eye, through his hands; he sees the "suspects" he incarcerates march before
him; he is in the court-room on the rendering of the sentence of death; frequently, the guillotine
he has supplied with heads works under his windows; he sleeps in the mansion of an emigré he
makes requisitions for the furniture, linen and wine belonging to the decapitated and the imprisoned,[3296]
lies in their beds, drinks their wine and revels with plenty of company at their expense, and
in their place. In the same way as a bandit chief who neither kills nor robs with his own hands,
but has murder and robbery committed in his presence, by which he substantially profits, not
by proxy, but personally, through the well-directed blows ordered by him.--To this degree,
and in such proximity to physical action, omnipotence is a noxious atmosphere which no state
of health can resist. Restored to the conditions which poisoned man in barbarous times or countries,
he is again attacked by moral maladies from which he was thenceforth believed to be exempt;
he retrogrades even to the strange corruptions of the Orient and the Middle Ages; forgotten
leprosies, apparently extinct, with exotic pestilences to which civilized lands seemed closed,
reappear in his soul with their issues and tumors.

VII. Brutal Instincts.

     Eruption of brutal instincts.--Duquesnoy at Metz.--Dumont at
     Amiens.--Drunkards.--Cusset, Bourbotte, Moustier, Bourdon de
     l'Oise, Dartigoyte.

"It seems," says a witness who was long acquainted with Maignet, "that all he did for these
five or six years was simply the delirious phase of an illness, after which he recovered, and
lived on as if nothing had happened."[3297] And Maignet himself writes "I was not made for
these tempests." That goes for everyone but especially for the coarser natures; subordination
would have restrained them while dictatorial power make the instincts of the brute and the
mob appear.

Contemplate Duquesnoy, a sort of mastiff, always barking and biting, when gorged he is even
more furious. Delegate to the army of the Moselle, and passing by Metz[3298] he summoned before
him Altmayer, the public prosecutor, although he had sat down to dinner. The latter waits three
hours and a half in the ante-chamber, is not admitted, returns, and, at length received, is
greeted with a thundering exclamation:

"Who are you?"

"The public prosecutor," he replies.

"You look like a bishop--you were once a curé or monk--you can't be a revolutionary.... I have
come to Metz with unlimited powers. Public opinion here is not satisfactory. I am going to
drill it. I am going to set folks straight here. I mean to shoot, here in Metz, as well as
in Nancy, five or six hundred every fortnight."

The same at the house of General Bessières, commandant of the town encountering there M. Cledat,
an old officer, the second in command, he measures him from head to foot:

"You look like a muscadin. Where did you come from? You must be a bad republican--you look
as if you belonged to the ancient régime."

"My hair is gray," he responds, "but I am not the less a good republican: you may ask the General
and the whole town."

"Be off! Go to the devil, and be quick about it, or I will have you arrested!"--

The same, in the street, where he lays hold of a man passing, on account of his looks; the
justice of the peace, Joly, certifies to the civism of this person, and he "eyes" Joly:

"You too, you are an aristocrat! I see it in your eyes! I never make a mistake."

Whereupon, tearing off the Judge's badge, he sends him to prison.--Meanwhile, a fire, soon
extinguished, breaks out in the army bakery; officers, townspeople, laborers, peasants and
even children form a line (for passing water) and Duquesnoy appears to urge them on in his
way: using his fists and his foot, he falls on whoever he meets, on an employee in the commissariat,
on a convalescent officer, on two men in the line, and many others. He shouts to one of them,
"You are a muscadin!" To another:

"I see by your eyes that you are an aristocrat!"

To another:

"You are a bloody beggar, an aristocrat, a rascal,"

and he strikes him in the stomach; he seizes a fourth by his collar and throws him down on
the pavement.[3299] In addition to this, all are imprisoned. The fire being extinguished, an
indiscreet fellow, who stood by looking on, recommends "the dispenser of blows" to wipe his
forehead." "You can't see straight--who are you? Answer me, I am the representative." The other
replies mildly: "Representative, nothing could be more respectable." Duquesnoy gives the unlucky
courtier a blow under the nose: "You are disputing--go to prison," "which I did at once," adds
the docile subject.--That same evening, "whereas, in the conflagration, none of the inhabitants
in good circumstances offered their services in extinguishing the fire,[32100] and none but
sans-culottes came thereto, from the garrison as well as from the commune," Duquesnoy orders
"that a tax of 40,000 livres be imposed on the commune of Metz, levied on the fortunes of the
rich and distributed among the poor, payable within ten days."[32101]--"Fais-moi f.... dedans
tous ces b... là[32102]," "quatre j...f... à raccourcir;"[32103] At Arras, as at Metz, the
lout is ever the ruffian and the butcher.

Others are either jolly fellows, or blackguards. A certain André Dumont, an old village attorney,
now king of Picardie, or sultan, as occasion offers, "figures as a white Negro," sometimes
jovial, but generally as a rude hardened cynic, treating female prisoners and petitioners as
in a kermesse.[32104]--One morning a lady enters his ante-room, and waits amidst about twenty
sans-culottes, to solicit the release of her husband. Dumont appears in a morning-gown, seats
himself and listens to the petitioner.

"Sit down, citoyenne."

He takes her on his lap, thrusts his hand in her bosom and exclaims:

"Who would suppose that the bust of a marchioness would feel so soft to one of the people's
representatives."

The sans-culottes shout with laughter. He sends the poor woman away and keeps her husband locked
up. In the evening he may write to the Convention that he investigates things himself, and
closely examines aristocrats.--If one is to maintain the revolutionary enthusiasm at a high
level it is helpful to have a drop too much in one's head, and most of them take precautions
in this direction. At Lyons,[32105] "the representatives sent to ensure the people's welfare,
Albitte and Collot," call upon the Committee of Sequestrations to deliver at their house two
hundred bottles of the best wine to be found, and five hundred bottles more of Bordeaux red
wine, first quality, for table use.--In three months, at the table of the representatives who
devastate la Vendée, nineteen hundred and seventy-four bottles of wine are emptied,[32106]
taken from the houses of the emigrés belonging to the town; for, "when one has helped to preserve
a commune one has a right to drink to the Republic." Representative Bourbotte presides at this
bar; Rossignol touches his glass, an ex-jeweler and then a September massacreur, all his life
a debauchee and brigand, and now a major-general; alongside of Rossignol, stand his adjutants,
Grammont, an old actor, and Hazard, a former priest; along with them is Vacheron, a good républican,
who ravishes women and shoots them when they refuse to succumb;[32107] in addition to these
are some "brilliant" young ladies, undoubtedly brought from Paris, "the prettiest of whom share
their nights between Rossignol and Bourbotte," whilst the others serve their subordinates:
the entire band, male and female, is installed in a Hotel de Fontenay, where they begin by
breaking the seals, so as t o confiscate "for their own benefit, furniture, jewelry, dresses,
feminine trinkets and even porcelains."[32108] Meanwhile, at Chantonney, representative Bourdon
de l'Oise drinks with General Tunck, becomes "frantic" when tipsy, and has patriotic administrators
seized in their beds at midnight, whom he had embraced the evening before.--Nearly all of them,
like the latter, get nasty after a few drinks,--Carrier at Nantes, Petit-Jean at Thiers, Duquesnoy
at Arras, Cusset at Thionville, Monestier at Tarbes. At Thionville, Cusset drinks like a "Lapithe"
and, when drunk, gives the orders of a "vizier," which orders are executed.[32109] At Tarbes,
Monestier "after a heavy meal and much excited," warmly harangues the court, personally examines
the prisoner, M. de Lasalle, an old officer, whom he has condemned to death, and signs the
order to have him guillotined at once. M. de Lasalle is guillotined that very evening, at midnight,
by torchlight. The following morning Monestier says to the president of the court: "Well, we
gave poor Lasalle a famous fright last night, didn't we?" "How a famous fright? He is executed!"
Monestier is astonished--he did not remember having issued the order.[32110]--With others,
wine, besides sanguinary instincts, brings out the foulest instincts. At Nîmes; Borie, in the
uniform of a representative, along with Courbis, the mayor, Géret, the justice and a number
of prostitutes, dance the farandole around the guillotine. At Auch, one of the worst tyrants
in the South, Dartigoyte, always heated with liquor "vomited every species of obscenity" in
the faces of women that came to demand justice; "he compels, under penalty of imprisonment,
mothers to take their daughters to the popular club," to listen to his filthy preaching; one
evening, at the theatre, probably after an orgy, he shouts at all the women between the acts,
lets loose upon them his smutty vocabulary, and, by way of demonstration, or as a practical
conclusion, ends by stripping himself naked.[32111]--This time, the genuine brute appears.
All the clothing woven during the past centuries and with which civilization had dressed him,
the last drapery of humanity, falls to the ground. Nothing remains but the primitive animal,
the ferocious, lewd gorilla supposed to be tamed, but which still subsists indefinitely and
which a dictatorship, joined to drunkenness, revives in an uglier guise than in remotest times.

VIII. Delirium.

     Approach of madness.--Loss of common-sense.--Fabre, Gaston,
     Guiter, in the army of the Eastern Pyrenees.--Baudot, Lebas,
     Saint-Just, and the predecessors and successors in the army
     of the Rhine.--Furious excitement.--Lebon at Arras, and
     Carrier at Nantes.

If intoxication is needed to awaken the brute, a dictatorship suffices to arouse the madman.
The mental equilibrium of most of these new sovereigns is disturbed; the distance between what
the man once was and what he now is, is too great. Formerly he was a petty lawyer, village
doctor, or schoolmaster, an unknown mover of a resolution in a local club, and only yesterday
he was one voter in the Convention out of seven hundred and fifty. Look at him now, the arbiter,
in one of the departments, of all fortunes and liberties, and master of five thousand lives.
Like a pair of scales into which a disproportionate weight has been thrown, his reason totters
on the side of pride. Some of them regard their competency unlimited, like their powers, and
having just joined the army, claim the right of being appointed major-generals.[32112] "Declare
officially," writes Fabre to the Committee of Public Safety,[32113] "that, in future, generals
shall be simply the lieutenants of the delegates to the Convention." Awaiting the required
declaration, they claim command and, in reality, exercise it. "I know of neither generals nor
privates," says Gaston, a former justice of the peace, to the officers; "as to the Minister,
he is like a bull in a china shop; I am in command here and must be obeyed." "What are generals
good for?" adds his colleague Guiter; "the old women in our faubourgs know as much as they
do. Plans, formal maneuvers, tents, camps, redoubts? All this is of no use! The only war suitable
to Frenchmen after this will be a rush with side arms." To turn out of office, guillotine,
disorganize, march blindly on, waste lives haphazard, force defeat, sometimes get killed themselves,
is all they know, and they would lose all if the effects of their incapacity and arrogance
were not redeemed by the devotion of the officers and the enthusiasm of the soldiers.--The
same spectacle is visible at Charleroy where, through his absurd orders, Saint-Just does his
best to compromise the army, leaving that place with the belief that he is a great man.[32114]--There
is the same spectacle in Alsace, where Lacoste, Baudot, Ruamps, Soubrany, Muhaud, Saint-Just
and Lebas, through their excessive rigor, do their best to break up the army and then boast
of it. The revolutionary Tribunal is installed at headquarters, soldiers are urged to denounce
their officers, the informer is promised money and secrecy, he and the accused are not allowed
to confront each other, no investigation, no papers allowed, even to make exception to the
verdict--a simple examination without any notes, the accused arrested at eight o'clock, condemned
at nine o'clock, and shot at ten o'clock.[32115]

Naturally, under such a system, no one wants to command; already, before Saint Just's arrival,
Meunier had consented to act as Major-General only ad interim; "every hour of the day" he demanded
his removal; unable to secure this, he refused to issue any order. The representatives, to
procure his successor, are obliged to descend down to a depot captain, Carlin, bold enough
or stupid enough to allow himself to take a commission under their lead, which was a commission
for the guillotine.--If such is their presumption in military matters, what must it be in civil
affairs! On this side there is no external check, no Spanish or German army capable of at once
taking them in flagrante delicto, and of profiting by their ambitious incapacity and mischievous
interference. Whatever the social instrumentality may be--judiciary, administration, credit,
commerce, manufactures, agriculture--they can dislocate and destroy it with impunity.--They
never fail to do this, and, moreover, in their dispatches, they take credit to themselves for
the ruin they cause. That, indeed, is their mission; otherwise, they would be regarded as bad
Jacobins; they would soon become "suspects;" they rule only on condition of being infatuated
and destructive; the overthrow of common-sense is with them an act of State grace, a necessity
of the office, and, on this common ground of compulsory unreason, every species of physical
delirium may be set established.

With those that we can follow closely, not only is their judgment perverted, but the entire
nervous apparatus is affected; a permanent over-excitement and a morbid restlessness has begun.--Consider
Joseph Lebon, son of a sergeant-at-arms, subsequently, a teacher with the Oratoriens of Beaune,
next, curé of Neuville-Vitasse, repudiated as an interloper by the élite of his parishioners,
not respected, without house or furniture, and almost without a flock.[32116] Two years after
this, finding himself sovereign of his province, his head is spinning. Lesser events would
have made it turn; his is only a twenty-eight-year-old head, not very solid, without any inside
ballast,[32117] already disturbed by vanity, ambition, rancor, and apostasy, by the sudden
and complete volteface which puts him in conflict with his past educational habits and most
cherished affections: it breaks down under the vastness and novelty of this greatness.--In
the costume of a representative, a Henry IV hat, tri-color plume, waving scarf, and saber dragging
the ground, Lebon orders the bell to be rung and summons the villagers into the church, where,
aloft in the pulpit in which he had formerly preached in a threadbare cassock, he displays
his metamorphosis.

"Who would believe that I should have returned here with unlimited powers!"[32118]

And that, before his counterfeit majesty, each person would be humble, bowed down and silent!
To a member of the municipality of Cambray who, questioned by him, looked straight at him and
answered curtly, and who, to a query twice repeated in the same terms, dared to answer twice
in the same terms, he says:

"Shut up! You disrespect me, you do not behave properly to the national representative."

He immediately commits him to prison.[32119]--One evening, at the theater, he enters a box
in which the ladies, seated in front, keep their places. In a rage, he goes out, rushes on
the stage and, brandishing his great saber, shouts and threatens the audience, taking immense
strides across the boards and acting and looking so much like a wild beast that several of
the ladies faint away:

"Look there!" he shouts, at those muscadines who do not condescend to move for a representative
of twenty-five millions of men! Everybody used to make way for a prince--they will not budge
for me, a representative, who am more than a king!"[32120]

The word is spoken. But this king is frightened, and he is one who thinks of nothing but conspiracy;[32121]
in the street, in open daylight, the people who are passing him are plotting against him either
by words or signs. Meeting in the main street of Arras a young girl and her mother talking
Flemish,--that seems to him "suspect." "Where are you going?" he demands. "What's that to you?"
replies the child, who does not know him. The girl, the mother and the father are sent to prison.[32122]--On
the ramparts, another young girl, accompanied by her mother, is taking the air, and reading
a book. "Give me that book," says the representative. The mother hands it to him; it is the
"History of Clarissa Harlowe." The young girl, extending her hand to receive back the book,
adds, undoubtedly with a smile: "That is not 'suspect.'" Lebon deals her a blow with his fist
on her stomach which knocks her down; both women are searched and he personally leads them
to the guard-room.--The slightest expression, a gesture, puts him beside himself; any motion
that he does not comprehend makes him start, as with an electric shock. Just arrived at Cambray,
he is informed that a woman who had sold a bottle of wine below the maximum, had been released
after a procès-verbal. On reaching the Hotel-de-ville, he shouts out: "Let everybody here pass
into the Consistory!" The municipal officer on duty opens a door leading into it. Lebon, however,
not knowing who he is, takes alarm. "He froths at the mouth," says the municipal officer, "and
cries out as if possessed by a demon. 'Stop, stop, scoundrel, you are running off!' He draws
his saber and seizes me by the collar; I am dragged and borne along by him and his men. 'I
have hold of him, I have hold of him!' he exclaims, and, indeed, he did hold me with his teeth,
legs, and arms, like a madman. At last, 'scoundrel, monster, bastard,' says he, 'are you a
marquis?' 'No,' I replied, 'I am a sans-culotte.' 'Ah, well people, you hear what he says,'
he exclaims, 'he says that he is a sans-culotte, and that is the way he greets a denunciation
on the maximum! I remove him. Let him be kicked in prison!'"[32123] It is certain that the
King of Arras and Cambray is not far from a raging fever; with such symptoms an ordinary individual
would be sent to an asylum.

Not so vain, less fond of parading his royalty, but more savage and placed in Nantes amidst
greater dangers, Carrier, under the pressure of more somber ideas, is much more furious and
constant in his madness. Sometimes his attacks reach hallucination. "I have seen him," says
a witness, "so carried away in the tribune, in the heat of his harangue when trying to overrule
public opinion, as to cut off the tops of the candles with his saber," as if they were so many
aristocrats' heads.[32124] Another time, at table, after having declared that France could
not feed its too numerous population, and that it was decided to cut down the excess, all nobles,
magistrates, priests, merchants, etc., he becomes excited and exclaims, "Kill, kill!" as if
he were already engaged in the work and ordering the operation.[32125] Even when fasting, and
in an ordinary condition, he is scarcely more cooled down. When the administrators of the department
come to consult with him,[32126] they gather around the door to see if he looks enraged, and
is in a condition to hear them. He not only insults petitioners, but likewise the functionaries
under him who make reports to him, or take his orders; his foul nature rises to his lips and
overflows in the vilest terms:

"Go to hell and be damned. I have no time."[32127]

They consider themselves lucky if they get off with a volley of obscene oaths, for he generally
draws his saber:

"The first bastard that mentions supplies, I will cut his head off."[32128]

And to the president of the military commission, who demands that verdicts be rendered before
ordering executions:

"You, you old rascal, you old bastard, you want verdicts, do you! Go ahead! If the whole pen
is not emptied in a couple of hours I will have you and your colleagues shot!"

His gestures, his look have such a powerful effect upon the mind that the other, who is also
a "bruiser," dies of the shock a few days after.[32129] Not only does he draw his saber, but
he uses it; among the petitioners, a boatman, whom he is about to strike, runs off as fast
as he can; he draws General Moulins into the recess of a window and gives him a cut.[32130]--People
"tremble" on accosting him, and yet more in contradicting him. The envoy of the Committee of
Public Safety, Julien de la Drôme, on being brought before him, takes care to "stand some distance
off, in a corner of the room," wisely trying to avoid the first spring; wiser still, he replies
to Carrier's exclamations with the only available argument:

"If you put me out of the way to-day, you yourself will be guillotined within a week!"[32131]

On coming to a stand before a mad dog one must aim the knife straight at its throat; there
is no other way to escape its fangs and slaver. Accordingly, with Carrier, as with a mad dog,
the brain is mastered by the steady mechanical reverie, by persistent images of murder and
death. He exclaims to President Tronjolly, apropos of the Vendean children:

"The guillotine, always the guillotine!"[32132]

In relation to the drownings:

"You judges must have verdicts; pitch them into the water, which is much more simple."

Addressing the popular club of Nantes, he says:

"The rich, the merchants, are all monopolizers, all anti-revolutionists; denounce them to me,
and I will have all their heads under the national razor. Tell me who the fanatics are that
shut their shops on Sunday and I will have them guillotined." "When will the heads of those
rascally merchants fall?"--"I see beggars here in rags; you are as big fools at Ancenis as
at Nantes. Don't you know that the money, the wealth of these old merchants, belongs to you,
and is not the river there?" "My brave bastards, my good sansculottes your time is come! Denounce
them to me! The evidence of two good sans-culottes is all I want to make the heads of those
old merchants tumble!"--"We will make France a grave-yard rather than not regenerate it in
our own way."[32133]--His steady howl ends in a cry of anguish:

"We shall all be guillotined, one after the other!"[32134]--

Such is the mental state to which the office of representative on mission leads. Below Carrier,
who is on the extreme verge, the others, less advanced, likewise turn pale at the lugubrious
vision, which is the inevitable effect of their work and their mandate. Beyond every grave
they dig, they catch a glimpse of the grave already dug for them. There is nothing left for
the gravedigger but to dig mechanically day after day, and, in the meantime, make what he can
out of his place; he can at least render himself insensible by having "a good time."

IX. Vice.

     The development of vice.--Vanity and the need of gambling.--
     Collot d'Herbois, Ysabeau, Tallien.--The Robbers.--Tallien,
     Javogues, Rovère, Fouché.--Two sources of cruelty.--Need of
     demonstrating one's power.--Saint-Just in the Pas-de-Calais
     department, and in Alsace.--Collot d'Herbois at Lyons.--
     Pressure exercised by the Representatives on the tribunals.
     --Pleasure caused by death and suffering.--Monestier, Fouché,
     Collot d'Herbois, Lebon and Carrier.

Most of them follow this course, some instinctively and through lassitude, and others because
the display they make adds to their authority. "Dragged along in Carriages with six horses,
surrounded by guards, seated at sumptuous tables set for thirty persons, eating to the sound
of music along with a Cortege of actors, courtesans and praetorians,"[32135] they impress the
imagination with an idea of their omnipotence, and people bow all the lower because they make
a grand show.--At Troyes, on the arrival of young Rousselin, cannon are discharged as if for
the entry of a prince. The entire population of Nevers is called upon to honor the birth of
Fouché's child; the civil and military authorities pay their respects to him, and the National
Guards are under arms.[32136] At Lyons, "The imposing display of Collot d'Herbois resembles
that of the Grand Turk. It requires three successive applications to obtain an audience; nobody
approaches nearer than a distance of fifteen feet; two sentinels with muskets stand on each
side of him, with their eyes fixed on the petitioners."[32137]--Less menacing, but not less
imposing, is the pomp which surrounds the representatives at Bordeaux; to approach them, requires
"a pass from the captain of the guards,"[32138] through several squads of sentinels. One of
them, Ysabeau, who, after having guillotined to a considerable extent, has become almost tractable,
allows adulation, and, like a Duc de Richelieu coming down from Versailles, tries to play the
popular potentate, with all the luxuries which the situation affords. At the theaters, in his
presence, they give a ballet in which shepherds form with garlands of flowers the words "Ysabeau,
Liberty, Equality." He allows his portrait to pass from hand to hand, and condescendingly smiles
on the artist who inscribes these words at the bottom of an engraving of the day: "An event
which took place under Ysabeau, representative of the people." "When he passes in the street
people take off their hats to him, cheer him, and shout 'Hurrah for Ysabeau! Hurrah for the
savior of Bordeaux, our friend and father!' The children of aristocrats come and apostrophize
him in this way, even at the doors of his carriage; for he has a Carriage, and several of them,
with a coachman, horses, and the equipage of a former noble, gendarmes preceding him everywhere,
even on excursions into the country," where his new courtiers call him "great man," and welcome
him with "Asiatic magnificence." There is good cheer at his table, "superb white bread," called
"representatives' bread," whilst the country folk of the neighborhood live on roots, and the
inhabitants of Bordeaux can scarcely obtain more than four ounces of musty bread per day.--There
is the same feasting with the representatives at Lyons, in the midst of similar distress. In
the reports made by Collot we find a list of bottles of brandy at four francs each, along with
partridges, capons, turkeys, chickens, pike, and crawfish, note also the white bread, the other
kind, called "equality bread," assigned to simple mortals, offends this august palate. Add
to this the requisitions made by Albitte and Fouché, seven hundred bottles of fine wine, in
one lot, another of fifty pounds of coffee, one hundred and sixty ells of muslin, three dozen
silk handkerchiefs for cravats, three dozen pairs of gloves, and four dozen pairs of stockings:
they provide themselves with a good stock.[32139]--Among so many itinerant tyrants, the most
audaciously sensual is, I believe, Tallien, the Septembriseur at Paris and guillotineur at
Bordeaux, but still more rake and robber, caring mostly for his palate and stomach. Son of
the cook of a grand seignior, he is doubtless swayed by family traditions: for his government
is simply a larder where, like the head-butler in "Gil Blas," he can eat and turn the rest
into money. At this moment, his principal favorite is Teresa Cabarrus, a woman of society,
or one of the demi-monde, whom he took out of prison; he rides about the streets with her in
an open carriage, "with a courier behind and a courier in front," sometimes wearing the red
cap and holding a pike in her hand,[32140] thus exhibiting his goddess to the people. And this
is the sentiment which does him the most credit; for, when the crisis comes, the imminent peril
of his mistress arouses his courage against Robespierre, and this pretty woman, who is good-natured,
begs him, not for murders, but for pardons.[32141]--Others, as gallant as he is, but with less
taste, obtain recruits for their pleasures in a rude way, either as fast-livers on the wing,
or because fear subjects the honor of women to their caprices, or because the public funds
defray the expenses of their guard-room habits. At Blois, for this kind of expenditure, Guimberteau
discharges his obligations by drafts on the proceeds of the revolutionary tax.[32142] Carrier,
at Nantes, appropriates to himself the house and garden of a private person for "his seraglio";
the reader may judge whether, on desiring to be a third party in the household, the husband
would make objections. At other times, in the hotel Henry IV., "with his friends and prostitutes
brought under requisition, he has an orgy;" he allows himself the same indulgence on the galiot
during the drownings; there at the end of a drunken frolic, he is regaled with merry songs,
for example, "la gamelle":[32143] he needs his amusements.

Some, who are shrewd, think of the more substantial and look out for the future. Foremost among
these is Tallien, the king of robbers, but prodigal, whose pockets, full of holes, are only
filled to be at once emptied; Javogues, who makes the most of Montbrison; Rovère, who, for
eighty thousand francs in assignats, has an estate adjudged to him worth five hundred thousand
francs in coin; Fouché, who, in Nièvre, begins to amass the twelve or fourteen millions which
he secures later on;[32144] and so many others, who were either ruined or impoverished previous
to the outbreak of the Revolution, and who are rich when it ends: Barras with his domain of
Gros Bois; André Dumont, with the Hotel de Plouy, its magnificent furniture, and an estate
worth four hundred thousand livres; Merlin de Thionville, with his country-houses, equipages,
and domain of Mont-Valérien, and other domains; Salicetti, Reubell, Rousselin, Chateauneuf-Randon,
and the rest of the gluttonous and corrupted members of the Directory. Without mentioning the
taxes and confiscations of which they render no account, they have, for their hoard, the ransoms
offered underhandedly by "suspects" and their families; what is more convenient?[32145] And
all the more, because the Committee of General Security, even when informed, let things take
their course: to prosecute "Montagnards," would be "making the Revolution take a step backward."
One is bound to humor useful servants who have such hard work, like that of the September killings,
to do. Irregularities, as with these September people, must be overlooked; it is necessary
to allow them a few perquisites and give them gratuities.[32146]

All this would not suffice to keep them at work if they had not been held by an even greater
attraction.--To the common run of civilized men, the office of Septembriseur is at first disagreeable;
but, after a little practice, especially with a tyrannical nature, which, under cover of the
theory, or under the pretext of public safety, can satiate its despotic instincts, all repugnance
subsides. There is keen delight in the exercise of absolute power; one is glad, every hour,
to assert one's omnipotence and prove it by some act, the most conclusive of all acts being
some act of destruction. The more complete, radical and prompt the destruction is, the more
conscious one is of one's strength. However great the obstacle, one is not disposed to recede
or stand still; one breaks away all the barriers which men call good sense, humanity, justice,
and the satisfaction of breaking them down is great. To crush and to subdue becomes voluptuous
pleasure, to which pride gives keener relish, affording a grateful incense of the holocaust
which the despot consumes on his own altar; at this daily sacrifice, he is both idol and priest,
offering up victims to himself that he may be conscious of his divinity.--Such is Saint-Just,
all the more a despot because his title of representative on mission is supported by his rank
on the Committee of Public Safety: to find natures strained to the same pitch as his, we must
leave the modern world and go back to a Caligula, or to a caliph Hakem in Egypt in the tenth
century.[32147] He also, like these two monsters, but with different formulae, regards himself
as a God, or God's vicegerent on earth, invested with absolute power through Truth incarnated
in him, the representative of a mysterious, limitless and supreme power, known as the People;
to worthily represent this power, it is essential to have a soul of steel.[32148] Such is the
soul of Saint-Just, and only that. All other sentiments merely serve to harden it; all the
metallic agencies that compose it--sensuality, vanity, every vice, every species of ambition,
all the frantic outbursts and melancholy vaporings of his youth--are violently commingled and
fused together in the revolutionary mold, so that his soul may take the form and rigidity of
trenchant steel. Suppose this an animated blade, feeling and willing in conformity with its
temper and structure; it would delight in being brandished, and would need to strike; such
is the need of Saint-Just. Taciturn, impassible, keeping people at a distance, as imperious
as if the entire will of the people and the majesty of transcendent reason resided in his person,
he seems to have reduced his passions to the desire of dashing everything to atoms, and to
creating dismay. It may be said of him that, like the conquering Tartars, he measures his self-attributed
grandeur by what he fells; no other has so extensively swept away fortunes, liberties and lives;
no other has so terrifically heightened the effect of his deeds by laconic speech and the suddenness
of the stroke. He orders the arrest and close confinement of all former nobles, men and women,
in the four departments, in twenty-four hours; he orders the bourgeoisie of Strasbourg to pay
over nine millions in twenty-four hours; ten thousand persons in Strasbourg must give up their
shoes in twenty-four hours; random and immediate discharges of musketry on the officers of
the Rhine army--such are the measures.[32149] So much the worse for the innocent; there is
no time to discern who they are; "a blind man hunting for a pin in a dust-heap takes the whole
heap."[32150]--And, whatever the order, even when it cannot be executed, so much the worse
for him to whom it is given, for the captain who, directed by the representative to establish
this or that battery in a certain time, works all night with all his forces, "with as many
men as the place will hold."[32151] The battery not being ready at the hour named, Saint-Just
sends the captain to the guillotine.--The sovereign having once given an order it cannot be
countermanded; to take back his words would be weakening himself;[32152] in the service of
omnipotence, pride is insatiable, and, to mollify it, no barbaric act is too great.--The same
appetite is visible in Collot d'Herbois, who, no longer on the stage, plays before the town
the melo-dramatic tyrant with all becoming ostentation. One morning, at Lyons, he directs the
revolutionary Tribunal to arrest, examine and sentence a youthful "suspect" before the day
is over. "Towards six o'clock,[32153] Collot being at table enjoying an orgy with prostitutes,
buffoons and executioners, eating and drinking to choice music, one of the judges of the Tribunal
enters; after the usual formalities, he is led up to the Representative, and informs him that
the young man had been arrested and examined, and the strictest inquiries made concerning him;
he is found irreproachable and the Court decided to set him free. Collot, without looking at
the judge, raises his voice and says to him:

"I ordered you to punish that young man and I want him out of the way before night. If the
innocent are spared, too many of the guilty will escape. Go."

The music and gaiety begin again, and in an hour the young man is shot."--And so in most of
the other pachalics; if any head mentally condemned by the pacha escapes or does not fall soon
enough, the latter is indignant at the delays and forms of justice, also against the judges
and juries, often selected by himself. Javogues writes an insulting letter to the commission
of Feurs which has dared acquit two former nobles. Laignelot, Lecarpentier, Michaud, Monestier,
Lebon, dismiss, recompose, or replace the commissions of Fontenoy, Saint-Malo, and Perpignan,
and the tribunals of Pau, Nîmes, and Arras, whose judgments did not please them.[32154] Lebon,
Bernard de Saintes, Dartigoyte and Fouché re-arrest prisoners on the same charge, solemnly
acquitted by their own tribunals. Bô, Prieur de la Marne, and Lebon, send judges and juries
to prison that do not always vote death.[32155] Barras and Fréron dispatch, from brigade to
brigade, to the revolutionary Tribunal in Paris, the public prosecutor and president of the
revolutionary Tribunal of Marseilles, for being indulgent to anti-revolutionaries, because,
out of five hundred and twenty-eight prisoners, they guillotined only one hundred and sixty-two.[32156]--To
contradict the infallible Representative! That of itself is an offense. He owes it to himself
to punish those who are not docile, to re-arrest absolved delinquents, and to support cruelty
with cruelty.

When for a long time someone has been imbibing a strong and nauseating drink, not only does
the palate get accustomed, but it often acquires a taste for it; it soon wants to have it stronger;
finally, it swallows it pure, completely raw, with no admixture or condiment to disguise its
repulsiveness--Such, to certain imaginations, is the spectacle of human gore; after getting
accustomed to it they take delight in seeing it. Lequinio, Laignelot and Lebon invite the executioner
to dine with them;[32157] Monestier, "with his cut-throats, is going himself in search of prisoners
in the dungeons, so that he may accompany them to the Tribunal and overwhelm them with charges,
if they are disposed to defend themselves; after their condemnation, he attends in uniform"
at their execution.[32158] Fouché, lorgnette in hand, looks out of his window upon a butchery
of two hundred and ten Lyonnese. Collot, Laporte and Fouché feast together in a large company
on the days when executions by shooting takes place, and, at each discharge, stand up and cheer
lustily, waving their hats.[32159] At Toulon, Fréron, in person, orders and sees executed,
the first grand massacre on the Champ de Mars.[32160]--On the Place d'Arras, M. de Vielfort,
already tied and stretched out on the plank, awaits the fall of the knife. Lebon appears on
the balcony of the theatre, makes a sign to the executioner to stop, opens the newspaper, and,
in a loud voice, reads off the recent successes of the French armies; then, turning to the
condemned man, exclaims: "Go, wretch, and take the news of our victories to your brethren."[32161]
At Feurs, where the shootings take place at the house of M. du Rosier, in the great avenue
of the park, his daughter, quite a young woman, advances in tears to Javogues, and asks for
the release of her husband. "Oh, yes, my dear," replies Javogues, "you shall have him home
to-morrow." In effect, the next day, her husband is shot, and buried in the avenue.[32162]--It
is evident that they get to liking the business. Like their September predecessors, they find
amusement in murdering: people around them allude gaily to "the red theater" and "the national
razor." An aristocrat is said to be "putting his head at the national window," and "he has
put his head through the cathole."[32163] They themselves have the style and humor of their
trade. "To-morrow, at seven o'clock," writes Hugues, "let the sacred guillotine be erected!"--"The
demoiselle guillotine," writes Lecarlier, "keeps steadily agoing."[32164]--"The relatives and
friends of emigrés and of refractory priests," writes Lebon, "monopolize the guillotine.. .[32165]
Day before yesterday, the sister of the former Comte de Bethune sneezed in the sack." Carrier
loudly proclaims "the pleasure he has derived" from seeing priests executed: "I never laughed
in my life as I did at the faces they made in dying."[32166] This is the extreme perversity
of human nature, that of a Domitian who watches the features of the condemned, to see the effect
of suffering, or, better still, that of the savage who holds his sides with laughter at the
aspect of a man being impaled. And this delight of contemplating death throes, Carrier finds
it in the sufferings of children. Notwithstanding the remonstrances of the revolutionary Tribunal
and the entreaties of President Phélippes-Tronjolly,[32167] he signs on the 29th of Frimaire,
year II., a positive order to guillotine without trial twenty-seven persons, of whom seven
are women, and, among these, four sisters, Mesdemoiselles de la Metayrie, one of these twenty-eight
years old, another twenty-seven, the third twenty-six, and the fourth seventeen. Two days before,
notwithstanding the remonstrances of the same tribunal and the entreaties of the same president,
he signed a positive order to guillotine twenty-six artisans and farm-hands, among them two
boys of fourteen, and two of thirteen years of age. He was driven "in a cab to the place of
execution and he followed it up in detail. He could hear one of the children of thirteen, already
bound to the board, but too small and having only the top of the head under the knife, ask
the executioner, "Will it hurt me much?" What the triangular blade fell upon may be imagined!
Carrier saw this with his own eyes, and whilst the executioner, horrified at himself, died
a few days after in consequence of what he had done, Carrier put another in his place, began
again and continued operations.

*****

[Footnote 3201: Thibaudeau: "Mémoires," I., 47, 70.--Durand-Maillane, "Mémoires," 183.--Vatel,
"Charlotte Corday et les Girondins," II., 269. Out of the seventy-six presidents of the convention
eighteen were guillotined, eight deported, twenty-two declared outlaws, six incarcerated, three
who committed suicide, and four who became insane, in all sixty-one. All who served twice perished
by a violent death.]

[Footnote 3202: Moniteur, XVIII., 38. (Speech by Amar, reporter, Oct. 3. '793.) "The apparently
negative behavior of the minority in the convention, since the 2nd of June, is a new plot hatched
by Barbaroux."]

[Footnote 3203: Mortimer-Ternaux, VIII., 44. Election of Collot d'Herbois as president by one
hundred and fifty-one out of two hundred and forty-one votes, June 13, 1793.-Moniteur, XVII.,
366. Election of Hérault-Sechelles as president by one hundred and sixty-five out of two hundred
and thirty-six votes, Aug. 3, 1793.]

[Footnote 3204: "The Revolution," vol. III., ch. I.--Mortimer-Ternaux, VII., 435. (The three
substitutes obtain, the first, nine votes, the second, six votes, and the third, five votes.)]

[Footnote 3205: Marcelin Boudet, "Les conventionnels d' Auvergne," 206.]

[Footnote 3206: Le Marais or the Swamp (moderate party in the French Revolution). SR.]

[Footnote 3207: Dussault: "Fragment pour servir a' l'histoire de la convention."]

[Footnote 3208: Sainte-Beuve "causeries du Lundi," V., 216. (According to the unpublished papers
of Siéyès.)]

[Footnote 3209: Words of Michelet.]

[Footnote 3210: Moniteur, XX., 95, 135. (Sessions of Germinal II. in the Convention and at
the Jacobin club.)]

[Footnote 3211: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 17. (Sessions of Ventôse 26, year II. Speech of Robespierre.)
"In what country has a powerful senate ever sought in its own bosom for the betrayers of the
common cause and handed them over to the sword of the law? Who has ever furnished the world
with this spectacle? You, my fellow citizens."]

[Footnote 3212: Miot de Melito, "Mémoires," I. 44. Danton, at table in the ministry of Foreign
Affairs, remarked: "The Révolution, like Saturn, eats its own children." As to Camille Desmoulins,
"His melancholy already indicated a presentiment of his fate; the few words he allowed to escape
him always turned on questions and observations concerning the nature of punishment, inflicted
on those condemned by the revolutionary Tribunal and the best way of preparing oneself for
that event and enduring it."]

[Footnote 3213: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 363.357. (Police reports on the deputies, Messidor
4, and following days.)--Vilate: "coups secrètes de la Revolution du 9 et 10 Thermidor," a
list designated by Barère.--Denunciation by Lecointre. (2nd ed. p.13.)]

[Footnote 3214: Thibaudeau, I., 47. "Just as in ordinary times one tries to elevate oneself,
so does one strive in these times of calamity to lower oneself and be forgotten, or atone for
one's inferiority by seeking to degrade oneself."]

[Footnote 3215: Madame Roland: "Mémoires," I., 23.]

[Footnote 3216: Archives Nationales, F.7, 31167. This set of papers contains five hundred and
thirty-seven police reports, especially those of Nivôse, year II. The following is a sample
Report of Nivôse 25, year II. "Being on a deputation to the convention, some colleagues took
me to dine in the old Breteuil gardens, in a large room with a nice floor.... The bill-of-fare
was called for, and I found that after having eaten a ritz soup, some meat, a bottle of wine
and two potatoes, I had spent, as they told me, eight francs twelve sous, because I am not
rich. 'Foutre!' I say to them how much do the rich pay here?... It is well to state that I
saw some deputies come into this large hall, also former marquises, counts and knights of the
poniard of the ancient regime... but I confess that I cannot remember the true names of these
former nobles.... for the devil himself could not recognize those bastards, disguised like
sans-culottes."]

[Footnote 3217: Buchez et Roux, XXVIII., 237, 308. (July 5 and 14, 1793.)--Moniteur, XIX.,
716. (Ventôse 26, year II.) Danton secures the passage of a decree "that nothing but prose
shall be heard at the bar." Nevertheless, after his execution, this sort of parade begins again.
On the 12th of Messidor, "a citizen admitted to the bar reads a poem composed by him in honor
of the success of our arms on the Sambre." (Moniteur, XVI., 101.)]

[Footnote 3218: Moniteur, XVIII. 369, 397, 399, 420, 455, 469, 471, 479, 488, 492, 500, etc.--Mercier,
"Le Nouveau Paris," II., 96.--Dauban, "La Demagogie en 1793," 500, 505. (Article from" Pêre
Duchesne ".)--Dauban, ibid., 506. (Article by Prud'homme.) "Liberty on a seat of verdure, receives
the homage of republicans, male and female,... and then.... she turns and bestows a benevolent
regard on her friends."]

[Footnote 3221: Moniteur, XVIII., 399. Session of Brumaire 20, on motion of Thuriot: "I move
that the convention attends the temple of Reason to sing the hymn to Liberty."--"The motion
of Thuriot is decreed."]

[Footnote 3222: Mercier, ibid., 99. (Similar scenes in the churches of St. Eustache and St.
Gervais.)]

[Footnote 3223: Durand-Maillane, '"Mémoires," 182.--Gregoire, "Mémoires," II., 34. On the 7th
of November, 1793, in the great scene of the abjurations, Grégoire alone resisted, declaring:
"I remain a bishop; I invoke freedom of worship." "Outcries burst forth to stifle my voice
the pitch of which I raised proportionately.... A demoniac scene occurred, worthy of Milton....
I declare that in making this speech I thought I was pronouncing sentence of death on myself."
For several days, emissaries were sent to him, either deputies or bandits, to try and make
him retract. On the 11th of November a placard posted throughout Paris declared him responsible
for the continuance of fanaticism. "For about two years, I was almost the only one in Paris
who wore the ecclesiastical costume."]

[Footnote 3224: Moniteur, XVIII., 480. (Session of Brumaire 30.) N...."I must make known the
ceremony which took place here to-day. I move that the speeches and details of this day be
inserted in full in the bulletin, and sent to all the departments." (Another deputy): "And
do not neglect to state that the Right was never so well furnished." (Laughter and applause.)]

[Footnote 3225: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 103. (Germinal 11.)--Moniteur, XX., 124. (Germinal
15.) Decree for cutting short the defense of Danton and his accused associates.]

[Footnote 3226: Moniteur, XX., 226. (Germinal 26. Report by Saint-Just and decree on the police.)--Ibid.,
XIX., 54. (Report by Robespierre, and decree on the principles of revolutionary government,
Nivôse 5.)--Ibid., XX., 567, 589. Prairial 6, (Decree forbidding the imprisonment of any Englishman
or Hanoverian), and XXI., 13. (Messidor 16.)]

[Footnote 3227: Moniteur, XX., 544. After the effort of L'Admiral against Collot d'Herbois,
the latter appears in the tribune. "The loudest applause greets him from all sides of the house."--Ibid.,
XXI., 173. (Messidor 21.) On the report of Barère who praises the conduct of Joseph Lebon,
criticizing nothing but "somewhat harsh formalities," a decree is passed to the order of the
day, which is "adopted unanimously with great applause."]

[Footnote 3228: Moniteur, XX., 698, 715, 716, 719. (Prairial 22 and 24.) After the speeches
of Robespierre and Couthon "Loud and renewed applause; the plaudits begin over again and are
prolonged." Couthon, having declared that the Committee of Public Safety was ready to resign,
"on all sides there were cries of No, No."--Ibid., XXI., 268. (Thermidor 2.) Eulogy of the
revolutionary government by Barère and decree of the police "unanimously adopted amidst the
loudest applause."]

[Footnote 3229: Moniteur, XXI., 329.]

[Footnote 3230: Lafayette, "Mémoires," IV., 330. "At last came the 9th of Thermidor. It was
not due to people of common sense. Their terror was so great that an estimable deputy, to whom
one of his colleagues put the question, no witness being present, 'how long must we endure
this tyranny?' was upset by it to such a degree as to denounce him."]

[Footnote 3231: Sainte-Beuve, "Causeries du Lundi," V., 209. (Siéyès' unpublished papers.)--Moniteur,
XVIII., 631, containing an example of both the terror and style of the most eminent men, among
others of Fourcroy the celebrated chemist, then deputy, and later, Counselor of State and Minister
of Public Instruction. He is accused in the Jacobin Club, Brumaire 18, year II., of not addressing
the Convention often enough, to which he replies: "After twenty years' devotion to the practice
of medicine I have succeeded in supporting my sans-culotte father and my sans-culottes sisters....
As to the charge made by a member that I have given most of my time to science. ... I have
attended the Lycée des Arts but three times, and then only for the purpose of sans-culotteising
it."]

[Footnote 3232: Michelet, (1798-1874), "Histoire de la Révolution," V., preface XXX (3rd ed.).
"When I was young and looking for a job, I was referred to an esteemed Review, to a well-known
philanthropist, devoted to education, to the people, and to the welfare of humanity. I found
a very small man of a melancholic, mild and tame aspect. We were in front of the fire, on which
he fixed his eyes without looking at me. He talked a long time, in a didactic, monotonous tone
of voice. I felt ill at ease and sick at heart, and got away as soon as I could. It was this
little man, I afterwards learned, who hunted down the Girondists, and had them guillotined,
and which he accomplished at the age of twenty."--This man's name was Julien de la Drôme. I
(Taine) saw him once when quite young. He is well known; first, through his correspondence,
and next, by his mother's diary. ("Journal d'une bourgeoise pendant la Revolution," ed. Locroy.)--We
have a sketch of David ("La Demagogie à Paris en 1793," by Dauban, a fac-simile at the beginning
of the volume), representing Queen Marie Antoinette led to execution. Madame Julien was at
a window along with David looking at the funeral convoy, whilst he made the drawing.--Madame
Julien writes in her "Journal," September 3, 1792: "To attain this end we must will the means.
No barbarous humanity! The people are aroused, the people are avenging the crimes of the past
three years."--Her son, a sort of raw, sentimental Puritan, fond of bloodshed, was one of Robespierre's
most active agents. He remembered what he had done, as is evident by Michelet's narrative,
and cast his eyes down, well knowing that his present philanthropy could not annihilate past acts.]

[Footnote 3233: Archives Nationales, AF. II., 46. Register of the Acts of the Committee of
Public Safety, vol. II., orders of August 3, 1793.]

[Footnote 3234: On the concentration and accumulation of business, cf. Archives Nationales,
ibid., acts of Aug. 4, 5, 6, 1793; and AF. II., 23, acts of Brumaire I and 15, year II.--On
the distribution and dispatch of business in the Committee and the hours devoted to it, see
Acts of April 6, June 13, 17, 18, Aug. 3, 1793, and Germinal 27, year II.--After August 3,
two sessions were held daily, from 8 o'clock in the morning to 1 o'clock in the afternoon,
and from 7 to 10 o'clock in the evening; at 10 o'clock, the Executive Council met with the
Committee of Public Safety, and papers were signed about 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning.--The
files of AF. II., 23 to 42, contain an account of the doings of the Committee, the minutes
of its meetings and of its correspondence. A perusal of these furnishes full details concerning
the initiative and responsibility of the Committee. For example, (Nivôse 4, year II., letters
to Freron and Barras, at Marseilles,) "The Committee commend the vigorous measures you have
sanctioned in your orders at Marseilles.--Marseilles, through you, affords a great example.
Accustomed, as you are, to wielding thunderbolts, you are best calculated for still governing
it... How glorious, citizen colleagues, to be able like you, after long continued labors and
immortal fame, how gratifying, under such auspices, to return to the bosom of the National
Convention!"--(AF. II., 36, Pluviôse 7, year II., letter to the representatives on mission
at Bordeaux, approving of the orders issued by them against merchants.) "concealed behind the
obscurity of its complots, mercantilism cannot support the ardent, invigorating atmosphere
of Liberty; Sybaritic indolence quails before Spartan virtue. "--(AF. II., 37, Pluviôse 20,
letter to Prieur de la Marne, sent to Nantes to replace Carrier.) "Carrier, perhaps, has been
badly surrounded;.... his ways are harsh, the means he employs are not well calculated to win
respect for the national authority;... he is used up in that city. He is to leave and go elsewhere."--(AF.
II., 36, Nivôse 21, letter to Fouché, Laporte, and Albitte, at Commune-affranchie, signed by
Billaud-Varennes and composed by him.) "The convention, Nivôse I, has approved of the orders
and other measures taken by you. We can add nothing to its approval. The Committee of Public
Safety subjects all operations to the same principles, that is to say, it conforms to yours
and acts with you."]

[Footnote 3235: Sainte-Beuve, "Nouveaux Lundis," VIII., 105. (Unpublished report by Vice-admiral
Villaret-Joyeuse, May 28, 1794.)]

[Footnote 3236: Carnot, "Mémoires," I., 107.]

[Footnote 3237: Ibid., I., 450, 523, 527, "we often ate only a morsel of dry bread on the Committee's
table."]

[Footnote 3238: Moniteur, XXI., 362. (Speech by Cambon, Session of Thermidor 11, year II.)]

[Footnote 3239: Beugnot, "Mémoires," II., 15. (Stated by Jean Bon himself in a conversation
at Mayence in 1813.)]

[Footnote 3240: Gaudia, duc de Gaéte, "Mémoires," I., 16, 28. "I owed my life to Cambon personally,
while, through his firmness, he preserved the whole Treasury department, continually attacked
by the all-powerful Jacobin club."--On the 8th of Thermidor, Robespierre was "very severe on
the administration of the Treasury, which he accused of an aristocratic and anti-revolutionary
spirit.... Under this pretext, it was known that the orator meant to propose an act of accusation
against the representative charged with its surveillance, as well as against the six commissioners,
and bring them before the Revolutionary Tribunal, whose verdict could not be doubtful."--Buchez
et Roux, XXXIII., 431, 436, 441. Speech by Robespierre, Thermidor 8, year II... ". Machiavellian
designs against the small fund-holders of the State.. .. A contemptible financial system, wasteful,
irritating, devouring, absolutely independent of your supreme oversight.... Anti-revolution
exists in the financial department.... Who are its head administrators? Brissotins, Feuillants,
aristocrats and well-known knaves--the Cambons, the Mallarmés, the Ramels!"]

[Footnote 3241: Carnot, "Mémoires," I., 425.]

[Footnote 3242: Moniteur, XXIV., 47, 50. (Session of Germinal 2, year II.) Speeches by Lindet
and Carnot with confirmatory details.--Lindet says that he had signed twenty thousand papers.--Ibid.,
XXXIII., 591. (Session of Ventôse 12, year III. Speech by Barère.) "The labor of the Committee
was divided amongst the different members composing it, but all, without distinction, signed
each other's work. I, myself, knowing nothing of military affairs, have perhaps, in this matter,
given four thousand signatures."--Ibid., XXIV., 74. (Session of Germinal 6, year III.) Speech
of Lavesseur, witness of an animated scene between Carnot and Robespierre concerning two of
Carnot's clerks, arrested by order of Robespierre.--Carnot adds "I had myself signed this order
of arrest without knowing it."--Ibid., XXII., 116. (Session of Vendémiaire 8, year II., speech
by Carnot in narrating the arrest of General Huchet for his cruelties in Vendée.) On appearing
before the committee of Public Safety, Robespierre defended him and he was sent back to the
army and promoted to a higher rank; I was obliged to sign in spite of my opposition."]

[Footnote 3243: Carnot, "Mémoires," I., 572. (Speech by Carnot, Germinal 2, year III.)]

[Footnote 3244: Sénart, "Mémoires," 145, 153. (Details on the members of the two Committees.)]

[Footnote 3245: Reports by Billaud on the organization of the revolutionary government, November
18, 1793 and on the theory of democratic government, April 20, 1794.--Reports by Robespierre
on the political situation of the Republic, November 17, 1793; and on the principles of revolutionary
government, December 5, 1793.--Information on the genius of revolutionary laws, signed principally
by Robespierre and Billaud, November 29, 1793.--Reports by Robespierre on the principles of
political morality which ought to govern the Convention, February 5, 1794; and on the relationship
between religious and moral ideas and republican principles, May 7, 1794.]

[Footnote 3246: Billaud no longer goes on mission after he becomes one of the Committee of
Public Safety. Robespierre never went. Barère, who is of daily service, is likewise retained
at Paris.--All the others serve on the missions and several repeatedly, and for a long time.]

[Footnote 3247: Moniteur, XXIV., 60. The words of Carnot, session of Germinal 2, year III.--Ibid.,
XXII., 138, words of Collot, session of Vendémiaire 12, year III. (July 7, 1815.)]

[Footnote 3252: Cf. Thibaudeau, "Mémoires," I., 46. "It seemed, then, that to escape imprisonment,
or the scaffold, there was no other way than to put others in your place."]

[Footnote 3253: Carnot, "Mémoires." I., 508.]

[Footnote 3254: Carnot, I., 527. (Words of Prieur de la Côte d'Or.)]

[Footnote 3255: Carnot, ibid., 527. (The words of Prieur.)]

[Footnote 3256: "La Nouvelle Minerve," I., 355, (Notes by Billaud-Varennes, indited at St.
Domingo and copied by Dr. Chervin.) "We came to a decision only after being wearied out by
the nightly meetings of our Committee."]

[Footnote 3257: Decree of September 17, 1793, on "Suspects." Ordinance of the Paris Commune,
October 10, 1793, extending it so as to include "those who, having done nothing against the
Revolution, do nothing for it."--Cf. "Papers seized in Robespierre's apartments," II., 370,
letter of Payan. "Every man who has not been for the Revolution has been against it, for he
has done nothing for the country.... In popular commissions, individual humanity, the moderation
which assumes the veil of justice, is criminal."]

[Footnote 3258: Mortimer-Ternaux, VIII., 394, and following pages; 414 and following pages,
(on the successive members of the two Committees).]

[Footnote 3259: Wallon, "Histoire du Tribunal Révolutionaire," III., 129-131. Hérault de Sechelles,
allied with Danton, and accused of being indulgent, had just given guarantees, however, and
applied the revolutionary regime in Alsace with a severity worthy of Billaud. (Archives des
Affaires étrangères, vol. V., 141.) "Instructions for civil commissioners by Hérault, representative
of the people," (Colmar, Frimaire 2, year II.,) with suggestions as to the categories of persons
that are to be "sought for, arrested and immediately put in jail," probably embracing nineteen-twentieths
of the inhabitants.]

[Footnote 3260: Dauban, "Paris" en 1794, 285, and following pages. (Police Reports, Germinal,
year II.) Arrest of Hébert and associates "Nothing was talked about the whole morning but the
atrocious crimes of the conspirators. They were regarded as a thousand times more criminal
than Capet and his wife. They ought to be punished a thousand times over.... The popular hatred
of Hébert is at its height... . The people cannot forgive Hébert for having deceived them....
Popular rejoicings were universal on seeing the conspirators led to the scaffold."]

[Footnote 3261: Moniteur, XXIV., 53. (Session of Germinal 2, year III.) Words of Prieur de
la Côte-d'Or: "The first quarrel that occurred in the Committee was between Saint-Just and
Carnot; the latter says to the former, 'I see that you and Robespierre are after a dictatorship.'"--Ibid.,
74. Levasseur makes a similar statement.-Ibid., 570. (Session of Germinal 2, year III., words
of Carnot): "I had a right to call Robespierre a tyrant every time I spoke to him. I did the
same with Saint-Just and Couthon."]

[Footnote 3262: Carnot, I., 525. (Testimony of Prieur.) Ibid., 522. Saint-Just says to Carnot:
"You are in league with the enemies of the patriots. It is well for you to know that a few
lines from me could send you to the guillotine in two days."]

[Footnote 3263: Buchez et Roux, XXX., 185. (Reply of Billaud, Collot, Vadier and Barère to
the renewed charges against them by Lecointre.)--Moniteur, XXIV., 84. (Session of Germinal
7, year III.) Words of Barère: "On the 4th of Thermidor, in the Committee, Robespierre speaks
like a man who had orders to give and victims to point out."--"And you, Barère," he replies,
"remember the report you made on the 2nd of Thermidor,"]

[Footnote 3264: Heraclitus ( c. 540-480 BC) pre-Socratic philosopher, who believed in a cosmic
justice where sinners would be punished and haunted by the Erinyes, (the furies) the handmaids
of justice. (SR).]

[Footnote 3265: Saint-Just, report on the Girondists, July 8, 1793; on the necessity of imprisoning
persons inimical to the Revolution, Feb.26, 1794; on the Hébertists, March 13; on the arrest
of Herault-Séchelles and Simond, March 17; on the arrest of Danton and associates March 31;
on a general policy, April 15.--Cf., likewise, his report on declaring the government revolutionary
until peace is declared, Oct. 10, 1793, and his report of the 9th of Thermidor, year II.]

[Footnote 3266: Buchez et Roux, XXXI., 346. (Report of March 13, 1794.)--XXXII., 314. (Report
of April 15.)]

[Footnote 3267: See "The Revolution," II., 313.]

[Footnote 3268: A single phrase often suffices to give the measure of a man's intellect and
character. The following by Saint-Just has this merit. (Apropos of Louis XVI. who, refraining
from defending himself, left the Tuileries and took refuge in the Assembly on the 10th of August.)
"He came amongst you; he forced his way here.... He resorted to the bosom of the legislature;
his soldiers burst into the asylum.. .. He made his way, so to say, by sword thrusts into the
bowels of his country that he might find a place of concealment."]

[Footnote 3269: Particularly in the long report on Danton containing a historic survey of the
factions, (Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 76,) and the report on the general police, (Ibid., 304,)
with another historic document of the same order. "Brissot and Ronsin (were) recognized royalists..
.. Since Necker a system of famine has been devised.... Necker had a hand in the Orleans faction....
Double representation (of the Third Estate) was proposed for it." Among other charges made
against Danton; after the fusillade on the Champ de Mars in July, 1791 "You went to pass happy
days at Arcis-sur-Aube, if it is possible for a conspirator against his country to be happy....
When you knew that the tyrant's fall was prepared and inevitable you returned to Paris on the
9th of August. You wanted to go to bed on that evil night.... Hatred, you said, is insupportable
to me and (yet) you said to us 'I do not like Marat,' etc." There is an apostrophe of nine
consecutive pages against Danton, who is absent.]

[Footnote 3270: Buchez et Roux, Ibid., 312. "Liberty emanated from the bosom of tempests; its
origin dates with that of the world issuing out of chaos along with man, who is born dissolved
in tears." (Applause.)--Ibid., 308. Cf. his portrait, got up for effect, of the "revolutionary
who is a treasure of good sense and probity."]

[Footnote 3271: Ibid., 312. "Liberty is not the chicanery of a palace; it is rigidity towards
evil."]

[Footnote 3272: Barère, "Mémoires," I. 347. "Saint-Just... discussed like a vizier."]

[Footnote 3273: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 314. "Are the lessons furnished by history, the examples
afforded by all great men, lost to the universe? These all counsel us to lead obscure lives;
the lowly cot and virtue form the grandeurs of this world. Let us seek our habitations on the
banks of streams, rock the cradles of our children and educate them in Disinterestedness and
Intrepidity."--As to his political or economic capacity and general ideas, read his speeches
and his "Institutions," (Buchez et Roux, XXVIII., 133; XXX., 305, XXXV., 369,) a mass of chemical
and abstract rant.]

[Footnote 3274: Carnot, I., 527. (Narrated by Prieur.) "Often when hurriedly eating a bit of
dry bread at the Committee table, Barère with a jest, brought a smile on our lips."]

[Footnote 3275: Veron, II., 14.-Arnault, II., 74.--Cf., passim, "Mémoires de Barère," and the
essay on Barère by Macaulay.]

[Footnote 3276: Vilate, Barère Edition, 184, 186, 244. "Fickle, frank, affectionate, fond of
society, especially that of women, in quest of luxuries and knowing how to spend money."--Carnot,
II. 511. In Prieur's eyes, Barère was simply "a good fellow."]

[Footnote 3277: Moniteur, XXI., 173. (Justification of Joseph Lebon and "his somewhat harsh
ways.") "The Revolution is to be spoken of with respect, and revolutionary measures with due
regard. "The Committee accepts your victory and your wound as compensations." On the 24th of
December, Dugommier, that he may not be present at the Toulon massacres, asks to return to
the convention and is ordered off to the army of the eastern Pyrenees.--In 1797, there were
thirty thousand French prisoners in England.]

[Footnote 3279: Moniteur, XVIII., 291. (Speech by Barère, session of Brumaire 8, year II.)
At this rate, there are one hundred and forty deputies on mission to the armies and in the
departments.--Before the institution of the Committee of Public Safety, (April 7, 1793) there
were one hundred and sixty representatives in the departments, sent there to hasten the levy
of two hundred thousand men. (Moniteur, XVII., 99, speech by Cambon, July 11, 1793.) The Committee
gradually recalled most of these representatives and, on the 16th July, only sixty-three were
on mission.--(Ibid., XVII., 152, speech by Gossuin, July 16.)--On the 9th of Nivôse, the committee
designated fifty-eight representatives to establish the revolutionary government in certain
places and fixing the limits of their jurisdictions. (Archives Nationales, AF., II., 22.) Subsequently,
several were recalled, and replaced by others.--The letters and orders of the representatives
on mission are filed in the National Archives according to departments, in two series, one
of which comprises missions previous to Thermidor 9, and the other missions after that date.]

[Footnote 3280: Thibaudeau, "Histoire du Terrorisme dans le department de la Vienne," p.4.
"Paris, Brumaire 15, the sans-culotte Piorry, representative of the people to the sans-culottes
composing the popular club of Poitiers."]

[Footnote 3281: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 116. (Letter of Laplanche, Orleans, September
10, 1793.--"Also procès-verbaux of the Orleans sections, September 7.) "I organized them, after
selecting them from the popular club, into a revolutionary committee. They worked under my
own eye, their bureau being in an adjoining chamber... I required sure, local information,
which I could not have had without collaborators of the country.... The result is that I have
arrested this night more than sixty aristocrats, strangers or 'suspects."--"De Martel, Études
sur Fouche," 84. Letter of Chaumette, who posted Fouché concerning the Nevers Jacobins. "Surrounded
by royalists, federalists and fanatics, representative Fouché had only 3 or 4 persecuted patriots
to advise him."]

[Footnote 3282: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 88. Speech by Rousselin, Frimaire 9--Ibid.,
F.7, 4421. Speech and orders issued by Rousselin, Brumaire 25.--Cf.. Albert Babeau, "Histoire
de Troyes pendant la Revolution," vol. II. Missions of Gamier de Rousselin and Bô.]

[Footnote 3283: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 145. (Order of Maignet, Avignon, Floreal 13,
year II., and proclamation of Floréal 14.)--Ibid., AF., II., 111, Grenoble. Prairial 8, year
II. Similar orders issued by Albitte and Laporte, for renewing all the authorities of Grenoble.--Ibid,
AF., II., 135. Similar order of Ricord at Grasse, Pluviôse 28, and throughout the Var.--Ibid.,
AF., II., 36. Brumaire, year II., circular of the Committee of Public Safety to the representatives
on mission in the departments: "Before quitting your post, you are to effect the most complete
purification of the constituted authorities and public functionaries."]

[Footnote 3284: Decrees of Frimaire 6 and 14, year II.]

[Footnote 3285: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 22. Acts of the committee of Public Safety,
Nivôse 9, year II.]

[Footnote 3286: Ibid., AF., II., 37. Letter to the Committee on the War, signed by Barère and
Billaud-Varennes, Pluviôse 23,, year II.]

[Footnote 3287: Ibid., AF., II., 36. Letter of the Committee of Public Safety to Le Carpentier,
on mission in l'Orne, Brumaire 19, year II. "The administrative bodies of Alençon, the district
excepted, are wholly gangrened; all are Feuillants, or infected with a no less pernicious spirit....
For the choice of subjects, and the incarceration of individuals, you can refer to the sans-culottes:
the most nervous are Symaroli and Préval.--At Montagne, the administration must be wholly removed,
as well as the collector of the district, and the post-master;... purify the popular club,
expel nobles and limbs of the law, those that have been turned out of office, priests, muscadins,
etc.... Dissolve two companies, one the grenadiers and the other the infantry who are very
muscadin and too fond of processions.... Re-form the staff and officers of the National Guard.
To secure more prompt and surer execution of these measures of security you may refer to the
present municipality, the Committee of Surveillance and the Cannoneers.]

[Footnote 3288: Ibid., AF.,II., 37. To Ricord, on mission at Marseilles, Pluviôse 7, year II,
a strong and rude admonition: he is going soft, he has gone to live with Saint-Même, a suspect;
he is too biased in favor of the Marseilles people who, during the siege "made sacrifices to
procure subsistences;" he blamed their arrest, etc.--Floréal 13, year II., to Bouret on mission
in the Manche and at Calvados. "The Committee are under the impression that you are constantly
deceived by an insidious secretary who, by the bad information he has given you, has often
led you to give favorable terms to the aristocracy, etc."--Ventôse 6, year II., to Guimberteau,
on mission near the army on the coasts of Cherbourg: "The committee is astonished to find that
the military commission established by you, undoubtedly for striking off the heads of conspirators,
was the first to let them off. Are you not acquainted with the men who compose it? For what
have you chosen them? If you do not know them, how does it happen that you have summoned them
for such duties?"--Ibid., and Ventôse 23, order to Guimberteau to investigate the conduct of
his secretary]

[Footnote 3289: See especially in the "Archives des Affaires étrangères," vols. 324 to 334,
the correspondence of secret agents sent into the interior.]

[Footnote 3290: Archives Nationales, AF.,II., 37, to Fromcastel on mission in Indre-et-Loire,
Floréal 13, year II. "The Committee sends you a letter from the people's club of Chinon, demanding
the purging and organization of all the constituted authorities of this district. The committee
requests you to proceed at once to carry out this important measure."]

[Footnote 3291: Words of Robespierre, session of the convention September 24, 1793.--On another
representative, Merlin de Thionville, who likewise stood fire, Robespierre wrote as follows:
"Merlin de Thionville, famous for surrendering Mayence, and more than suspected of having received
his reward."]

[Footnote 3292: Guillon, II., 207.--"Fouché," by M. de Martel, 292.]

[Footnote 3293: Hamel, III., 395, and following pages.--Buchez et Roux, XXX., 435. (Session
of the Jacobin club, Nivôse 12, year II. Speech of Collot d'Herbois.) "To-day I no longer recognize
public opinion; had I reached Paris three days later, I should probably have been indicted."]

[Footnote 3294: Marcelin Boudet, "Les conventionnels d'Auvergne," 438. (Unpublished memoir
of Maignet.)]

[Footnote 3295: Buchez et Roux, XXXIV., 165, 191. (Evidence of witnesses on the trial of Carrier.)--Paris,
II., 113, "Histoire de Joseph Lebon." "The prisons," says Le Bon, "overflowed at Saint-Pol.
I was there and released two hundred persons. Well, in spite of my orders, several were put
back by the committee of Surveillance, authorised by Lebas, a friend of Darthé. What could
I do against Darthé supported by Saint-Just and Lebas? He would have denounced me."--Ibid.,
128, apropos of a certain Lefèvre, "veteran of the Revolution," arrested and brought before
the revolutionary tribunal by order of Lebon. "It was necessary to take the choice of condemning
him, or of being denounced and persecuted myself, without saving him."--Beaulieu, "Essai,"
V., 233. (Orders of Pinét and Cavaignac, Pluviôse 22, and Ventôse 2.)--Moniteur, XXIV., 469.
(Session of Prairial 30, year III., denunciation of representative Laplanche at the bar of
the house, by Boismartin.) On the 24th of Brumaire, year II., Laplanche and General Seepher
installed themselves at St. Lô in the house of an old man of seventy, a M. Lemonnier then under
arrest. "Scarcely had they entered the house when they demanded provisions of every kind, linen,
clothes, furniture, jewelry, plate, vehicles and title-deeds--all disappeared." Whilst the
inhabitants of St. Lô were living on a few ounces of brown bread, "the best bread, the choicest
wines, pillaged in the house of Lemonnier, were lavishly given in pans and kettles to General
Seepher's horses, also to those of representative Laplanche." Lemonnier, set at liberty, could
not return to his emptied dwelling then transformed into a storehouse. He lived at the inn,
stripped of all his possessions, valued at sixty thousand livres, having saved from his effects
only one silver table-service, which he had taken with him into prison.]

[Footnote 3297: Marcelin Boudet, 446. (Notes of M. Ignace de Barante.) Also 440. (Unpublished
memoir of Maignet).]

[Footnote 3298: Archives Nationales, AF., II., 59. Extract from the minutes of the meetings
of the People's club of Metz, and depositions made before the committee of Surveillance of
the club, Floreal 12, year II., on the conduct of representative Duquesnoy, arrived at Metz
the evening before at six o'clock.--There are thirty-two depositions, and among others those
of M. Altmayer, Joly and Clédat. One of the witnesses states: "As to these matters, I regarded
this citizen (Duquesnoy) as tipsy or drunk, or as a man beside himself."--This is customary
with Duquesnoy.--Cf. Paris, "His. de Joseph Lebon," I., 273, 370.-"Archives des Affaires étrangères,"
vol. 329. Letter of Gadolle, September 11, 1793. "I saw Duquesnoy, the deputy, dead drunk at
Bergues, on Whit-Monday, at 11 o'clock in the evening."--"Un Séjour en France, 1792 to 1796,
p. 136. "His naturally savage temper is excited to madness by the abuse of strong drink. General
de .....assures us that he saw him seize the mayor of Avesnes, a respectable old man, by the
hair on his presenting him with a petition relating to the town, and throw him down with the
air of a cannibal." "He and his brother were dealers in hops at retail, at Saint Pol. He made
this brother a general."]

[Footnote 3299: Alexandrine des Echerolles, "Une famile noble sous la Terreur," 209. At Lyons,
Marin, the commissioner, "a tall, powerful, robust man with stentorian lungs," opens his court
with a volley of "republican oaths... ".. The crowd of supplicants melts away. One lady alone
dared present her petition. "Who are you?" She gives her name. "What! You have the audacity
to mention a traitor's name in this place?" Get away and, giving her a push, he put her outside
the door with a kick.]

[Footnote 32100: Ibid. A mass of evidence proves, on the contrary, that people of every class
gave their assistance, owing to which the fire was almost immediately extinguished.]

[Footnote 32101: Ibid. The popular club unanimously attests these facts, and despatches six
delegates to enter a protest at the convention. Up to the 9th of Thermidor, no relief is granted,
while the tax imposed by Duquesnoy is collected. On the 5th Fructidor, year II., the order
of Duquesnoy is cancelled by the committee of Public Safety, but the money is not paid back.]

[Footnote 32102: Paris, I., 370. (Words of Duquesnoy to Lebon.)]

[Footnote 32103: Carnot, "Mémoires," I., 414. (Letter of Duquesnoy to the central bureau of
representatives at Arras.) The import of these untranslatable profanities being sufficiently
clear I let them stand as in the original.-Tr.]

[Footnote 32104: "Un Sejour en France," 158, 171.--Manuscript journal of Mallet du Pan (January,
1795).--Cf. his letters to the convention, the jokes of jailors and sbirri, for instance.--(Moniteur,
XVIII., 214, Brumaire I, year II.)--Lacretelle, "Dix Années d'Epreuves," 178. "He ordered that
everybody should dance in his fief of Picardy. They danced even in prison. Whoever did not
dance was "suspect." He insisted on a rigid observance of the fêtes in honor of Reason, and
that everybody should visit the temple of the Goddess each decadi, which was the cathedral
(at Noyon). Ladies, bourgeoises, seamstresses, and cooks, were required to form what was called
the chain of Equality. We dragoons were forced to be performers in this strange ballet."]

[Footnote 32105: De Martel, "Fouché," 418. (Orders of Albitte and Collot, Nivôse 13, year II.)]

[Footnote 32106: Camille Boursier, "Essai sur la Terreur en Anjou," 225. Letter of Vacheron,
Frimaire 15, year II.) "Republiquain, it is absolutely necessary, immediately, that you have
sent or brought into the house of the representatives, a lot of red wine, of which the consumption
is greater than ever. People have a right to drink to the Republic when they have helped to
preserve the commune you and yours live in. I hold you responsible for my demand." Signed,
"le republiquain, Vacheron."]

[Footnote 32107: Ibid., 210. Deposition of Madame Edin, apropos of Quesnoy, a prostitute, aged
twenty-six, Brumaire 12, year III.; and of Rose, another prostitute. Similar depositions by
Benaben and Scotty.]

[Footnote 32108: Dauban, "La Demagogie en 1793," p.369. (Extracts from the unpublished memoirs
of Mercier de Rocher.)--Ibid., 370. "Bourdon de l'Oise had lived with Tuncq at Chantonney,
where they kept busy emptying bottles of fine wine. Bourdon is an excellent patriot, a man
of sensibility, but, in his fits of intoxication, he gives himself up to impracticable views.
"Let those rascally administrators," he says, "be arrested!" Then, going to the window,--he
heard a runaway horse galloping in the street--"That's another anti-revolutionary! Let 'em
all be arrested!"--Cf. "Souvenirs," by General Pélleport, p.21. At Perpignan, he attended the
fête of Reason. "The General in command of the post made an impudent speech, even to the most
repulsive cynicisim. Some prostitutes, well known to this wretch, filled one of the tribunes;
they waved their handkerchiefs and shouted "Vive la Raison!" After listening to similar harangues
by representatives Soubrang and Michaud, Pélleport, although half cured (of his wound) returns
to camp: "I could not breathe freely in town, and did not think that I was safe until facing
the enemy along with my comrades."]

[Footnote 32109: Archives des Affaires étrangères, vol.332; correspondence of secret agents,
October, 1793. "Citizen Cusset, representative of the people, shows no dignity in his mission;
he drinks like a Lapithe, and when intoxicated commits the arbitrary acts of a vizier." For
the style and orthography of Cusset, see one of his letters. (Dauban, "Paris en 1794," p 14.)--Berryat
St. Prix, "La Justice Révolutionnaire," (2nd ed.) 339.]

[Footnote 32110: Ibid., 371. (According to "Piecès et Documents" published by M. Fajon.)--Moniteur,
XXIV., 453. (Session of Floréal 24, year III.) Address of the commune of Saint-Jean du Gard.--XXI.,
528. (Session of Fructidor 2, year III.) Address of the Popular club of Nîmes.]

[Footnote 32111: Moniteur, XXIV., 602. (Session of Prairial 13, year III.) Report of Durand
Meillan: "This denunciation is only too well supported by documents. It is for the convention
to say whether it will hear them read. I have to state beforehand that it can hear nothing
more repulsive nor better authenticated."--De Martel, "Fouché, 246. (Report of the constituted
authorities of la Nièvre on the missions of Collot d'Herbois, Laplanche, Fouché and Pointe,
Prairial 19, year III.) Laplanche, a former Benedictine, is the most foul-mouthed." In his
speech to the people of Moulins-Engelbert, St. Pierre-le-Montier, and Nevers, Laplanche asked
girls to surrender themselves and let modesty go. "Beget children," he exclaims, "the Republic
needs them. continence is the virtue of fools." Bibliotheque Nationale, Lb. 41, No. 1802. (Denunciation,
by the six sections of the Dijon commune to the convention, of Leonard Bourdon and Piochefer
Bernard de Saintes, during their mission in Côte-d'Or.) Details on the orgies of Bernard with
the municipality, and on the drunkenness and debaucheries of Bourdon with the riff-raff~ of
the country; authentic documents proving the robberies and assassinations committed by Bernard.
He pillaged the house of M. Micault, and, in four hours, had this person arrested, tried and
guillotined; he attended the execution himself, and that evening, in the dead man's house,
danced and sang before his daughter with his acolytes.]

[Footnote 32112: "Souvenirs," by General Pélleport, p.8. He, with his battalion, is inspected
in the Place du Capitale, at Toulouse, by the representative on mission. "It seems as if I
can still see that charlatan: He shook his ugly plumed head and dragged along his saber like
a merry soldier, wishing to appear brave. It made me feel sad."]

[Footnote 32113: Fervel, "Campagnes des Français dans les Pyrenees Orientals," I., 169. (October,
1793.)--Ibid., 201, 206.--Cf. 188. Plan of Fabre for seizing Roses and Figuières, with eight
thousand men, without provisions or transports. "Fortune is on the side of fools," he said.
Naturally the scheme fails. Collioure is lost, and disasters accumulate. As an offset to this
the worthy general Dagobert is removed. Commandant Delatre and chief-of-staff Ramel are guillotined.
In the face of the impracticable orders of the representatives the commandant of artillery
commits suicide. On the devotion of the officers and enthusiasm of the troops, Ibid., 105,
106, 130, 131, 162.]

[Footnote 32114: Sybel (Dosquet's translation, French:), II., 435; III., 132, 140. "The effect
of this was to lead men who had any means to keep aloof from any sort of promotion."--Cf.,
ibid., II., 131 (November, 1794,) the same order of things still kept up. By order of the representatives
the army encamps during the winter in sheds on the left bank of the Rhine, near Mayence, a
useless proceeding and mere literary parade. "They would listen to no reason; a fine army and
well-mounted artillery were to perish with cold and hunger, for no object whatever, in quarters
that might have been avoided." The details are heart-rending. Never was military heroism so
sacrificed to the folly of civilian commanders.]

[Footnote 32116: See Paris, "Histoire de Joseph Lebon," I., ch. I, for biographical details
and traits of character.]

[Footnote 32117: Ibid., I., 13.--His mother became crazy and was put in an asylum. Her derangement,
he says, was due to "her indignation at his oath of allegiance (to the Republic) and at his
appointment to the curacy of Nouvelle-Vitasse."]

[Footnote 32118: Ibid., I., 123. Speech by Lebon in the church of Beaurains.]

[Footnote 32119: Ibid., II., 71, 72.--Cf. 85. "Citizen Chamonart, wine-dealer, standing at
the entrance of his cellar, sees the representative pass, looks at him and does not salute
him. Lebon steps up to him, arrests him, treats him as an agent of Pitt and Cobourg."...."They
search him, take his pocket-book and lead him off to the Anglaises (a prison)."]

[Footnote 32120: Ibid., II., 84.]

[Footnote 32121: Moniteur, XXV., 201. (Session of Messidor 22, year III.) "When in the tribune
(of the Convention) prison conspiracies were announced. ... my dreams were wholly of prison
conspiracies."]

[Footnote 32122: Ibid., 211. (Explanations given by Lebon to the Convention.)--Paris, II.,
350, 351. (Verdict of the jury.)]

[Footnote 32123: Paris, II., 85.]

[Footnote 32124: Buchez et Roux, XXXIV., 181. (Depositions of Monneron, a merchant.)]

[Footnote 32125: Ibid., 184. (Deposition of Chaux.)--Cf. 200. (Depositions of Monneron and
Villemain, merchants.)]

[Footnote 32126: Ibid., 204. (Deposition of Lamarie, administrator of the department.)]

[Footnote 32127: Ibid., 173. (Deposition of Erard, a copyist.)--168. (Deposition of Thomas,
health officer.) "To all his questions, Carrier replied in the grossest language."]

[Footnote 32128: Ibid., 203. (Deposition of Bonami, merchant.)]

[Footnote 32129: Ibid., 156. (Deposition of Vaujois, public prosecutor to the military commission.)]

[Footnote 32130: Ibid., 169. (Deposition of Thomas.)--Berryat Saint-Prix, pp. 34, 35..--Buchez
et Roux, 118. "He received the members of the popular club with blows, also the municipal officers
with saber thrusts, who came to demand supplies"...."He draws his saber (against the boatman)
and strikes at him, which he avoids only by running away."]

[Footnote 32131: Buchez et Roux, XXXIV., 196. (Deposition of Julien.) "Carrier said to me in
a passion: 'It is you, is it, you damned beggar, who presumes to denounce me to the Committee
of Public Safety.... As it is sometimes necessary for the public interests to get rid of certain
folks quickly, I won't take the trouble to send you to the guillotine, I'll be your executioner
myself!"]

[Footnote 32132: Ibid., 175. (Deposition of Tronjolly.) 295. (Depositions of Jean Lavigne,
a shopkeeper; of Arnandan, civil commissioner; also of Corneret, merchant.) 179. (Deposition
of Villemain).--Berryat Saint-Prix, 34. "Carrier, says the gendarme Desquer, who carried his
letters, was a roaring lion rather than an officer of the people." "He looked at once like
a charlatan and a tiger," says another witness.]

[Footnote 32133: Ibid., XXXIV., 204. (Deposition of Lamarie.)]

[Footnote 32134: Ibid., 183. (Deposition of Caux.)]

[Footnote 32135: Mallet-Dupan, "Mémoires," II., 6. (Memorial of Feb. I, 1794.) On André Dumont,
"Un Séjour en France," 158, 171.--On Merlin de Thionville, Michelet, VI., 97.]

[Footnote 32136: De Martel, "Fouché" 100.]

[Footnote 32137: Mallet-Dupan, II., 46.]

[Footnote 32138: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 413, 423. (Letter of Julien to Robespierre.)]

[Footnote 32139: Archives Nationales, AF., II., III. An order issued by Bourbotte, Tours, Messidor
5, year II., "requiring the district administration to furnish him personally, as well as for
the citizens attached to his commission, forty bottles of red wine and thirty of white wine,
to be taken from the cellars of emigrés, or from those of persons condemned to death; and,
besides this, fifty bottles of common wine other than white or red."--On the 2nd of Messidor,
ale is drunk and there is a fresh order for fifty bottles of red wine, fifty of common wine,
and two bottles of brandy.--De Martel, "Fouché," 419, 420.--Moniteur, XXIV., 604. (Session
of Prairial 13, par III.) "Dugué reads the list of charges brought against Mallarmé. He is
accused.... of having put in requisition whatever pleased him for his table and for other wants,
without paying for anything, not even for the post-horses and postillions that carried him."--Ibid.
602. Report of Perès du Gers. "He accuses Dartigoyte... of having taken part with his secretaries
in the auction of the furniture of Daspe, who had been condemned; of having kept the most valuable
pieces for himself, and afterwards fixing their price; of having warned those who had charge
of the sale that confinement awaited whoever should bid on the articles he destined for himself."--Laplanche,
ex-Benedictine, said in his mission in Loiret, that "those who did not like the Revolution
must pay those who make it."]

[Footnote 32140: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 426. (Extract from the Memoirs of Sénart.)--Hamel,
III., 565. (Description of Teresa's domicile by the Marquis de Paroy, a petitioner and eye-witness.)]

[Footnote 32141: The reader might read about Tallien in the book written by Thérèse Chatrles-Vallin:
"Tallien," "Le mal-aimé de la Révolution", Ed. Jean Picollec, Paris 1997. (SR).]

[Footnote 32142: Buchez et Roux, XXXIII., 12. (Extract from the Memoirs of Sénart.) "The certified
copies of these drafts are on file with the committee of General Security."]

[Footnote 32143: Report of Courtois, 360. (Letters of Julien to Robespierre, Pluviôse 15 and
16, year II.)--Buchez et Roux, XXXIV., 199, 200, 202, 203, 211. (Depositions of Villemain,
Monneron, Legros, Robin.)--Berryat Saint-Prix, 35. (Depositions of Fourrier, and of Louise
Courant, sempstress.)]

[Footnote 32144: See, on Tallien," Mémoires de Sénart."--On Javogues, Moniteur, XXIV., 461,
Floreal 24, III. Petition against Javogues, with several pages of signatures, especially those
of the inhabitants of Montbrison: "In the report made by him to the Convention he puts down
coin and assignats at seven hundred and seventy-four thousand six hundred and ninety-six francs,
while the spoils of one person provided him with five hundred thousand francs in cash."--On
Fouché, De Martel, 252.--On Dumont, Mallet-Dupan, "Manuscript notes." (January, 1795.) On Rovère,
Michelet, VI., 256.--Carnot, II., 87. (According to the Memoirs of the German Olsner, who was
in Paris under the Directory:) "The tone of Barras' Salon was that of a respectable gambling
house; the house of Reubell resembled the waiting-room of an inn at which the mail-coach stops."]

[Footnote 32145: Buchez et Roux, XXXII., 391, and XXXIII., 9. (Extracts from the Memoirs of
Sénart.)]

[Footnote 32146: Carnot, "Mémoires," I. 416. Carnot, having shown to the Committee of Public
Safety, proofs of the depredations committed on the army of the North, Saint-Just got angry
and exclaimed: "It is only an enemy of the Republic that would accuse his colleagues of depredations,
as if patriots hadn't a right to everything!"]

[Footnote 32147: As to Caligula see Suetonius and Philo.--With respect to Hakem, see "L'Exposé
de la Religion des Druses," by M. de Sacy.]

[Footnote 32148: Saint-Just, speaking in the Convention, says: "What constitutes a republic
is the utter destruction of whatever is opposed to it."]

[Footnote 32149: Orders issued by Saint-Just and Lebas for the departments of Pas-de-Calais,
Nord, la Somme et l'Aisne.--Cf. "Histoire de l'Alsace," by Stroebel, and "Recueil de pieces
authentiques pour servir à l'histoire de la Révolution à Strasbourg," 3 vols.-Archives Nationales
AF., II., 135, orders issued Brumaire 10, year II., and list of the one hundred and ninety-three
persons taxed.]

[Footnote 32150: Buchez et Roux, XXXI., 32. (Saint-Just's reply to Mayor Monet.)--De Sybel,
II., 447, 448. At the first interview Saint-Just said to Schneider: "Why use so much ceremony?
You know the crimes of the aristocrats? In the twenty-four hours taken for one investigation
you might have twenty-four condemned."]

[Footnote 32151: "Journal de marche du sergent Fricasse," p.34. (Narrative by Marshal Soult.)]

[Footnote 32152: Cf. in the Bible, the story of Ahasuerus who, out of respect for his own majesty,
can-not retract the order he has issued against the Jews, but he turns the difficulty by allowing
them to defend themselves.]

[Footnote 32153: Mallet-Dupan, II., 47.]

[Footnote 32154: Berryat Saint-Prix, "La Justice Revolutionnaire," XVII.-Marcelin Boudet, "Les
Conventionnels d'Auvergne," 269.--Moniteur, Brumaire 27, year III., report by Calès.]

[Footnote 32155: Paris, "Histoire de Joseph Lebon," I., 371; II., 341, 344.-De Martel, "Fouché,"
153.--Berryat Saint-Prix, 347, 348.]

[Footnote 32156: Berryat Saint-Prix, 390.--Ibid., 404. (On Soubrié, executioner at Marseilles,
letter of Lazare Giraud, public prosecutor): "I put him in the dungeon for having shed tears
on the scaffold, in executing the anti-revolutionists we sent to be executed."]

[Footnote 32157: Moniteur, XVIII., 413. (Session of the Convention, letter of Lequinio and
Laignelot, Rochefort, Brumaire 17, year II.) "We have appointed the patriot Anse guilloteneur
and we have invited him, in dining with us, to come and assume his prescribed powers, and water
them with a libation in honor of the Republic."--Paris, II., 72.]

[Footnote 32158: Marcelin Boudet, 270. (Testimony of Bardanèche de Bayonne.)]

[Footnote 32159: Guil1on, "Histoire de la ville de Lyons pendant la Revolution," II., 427,
431, 433.]

[Footnote 32160: "Mémoire du Citoyen Fréron," (in the Barrière collection,) p.357. (Letter
of Boniface, ex-Benedictine, president of the Revolutionary committee, to Representative Richard,
Brumaire 3, year II.) "We send you the said Henri Verdier, called de la Saurinière.... It will
not be long before you will see that we make the guillotine a present.... The Committee begs
you to send him sacram sanctam guillotinam, and the republican minister of his worship... Not
an hour of the day passes that new members do not come to us whom we desire to initiate in
its mysteries, (sic)."]

[Footnote 32164: Thibaudeau, "Histoire du Terrorisme dans le départment de la Vienne," 34,
48.--Berryat Saint-Prix, 239.]

[Footnote 32165: Archives Nationales F.7, 4435. (Letter of Lebon, Floréal 23, year II.)--Paris,
I. 241.]

[Footnote 32166: Buchez et Roux, XXXIV., 184, 200. (Depositions of Chaux, Monneron and Villemain.)]

[Footnote 32167: Register of the Revolutionary Tribunal of Nantes, copied by M. Chevrier. (M.
Chevrier has kindly sent me his manuscript copy.)--Berryat Saint-Prix, 94.--Archives Nationales,
F7. 4591. (Extract from the acts of the Legislative Committee, session of Floréal 3, year III.
Restitution of the confiscated property of Alexander Long to his son.) Dartigoyte, at Auch,
did what Carrier did at Nantes. "It follows from the above abstract duly signed that on the
27th Germinal, year II., between eight and nine o'clock in the evening, Alexandre Long, Sr.,
was put to death on the public square of the commune of Auch by the executioner of criminal
sentences, without any judgment having been rendered against the said Long."--In many places
an execution becomes a spectacle for the Jacobins of the town and a party of pleasure. For
instance, at Arras, on the square devoted to executions, a gallery was erected for spectators
with a room for the sale of refreshments, and, during the execution of M. de Montgon, the "Ça
ira" is played on the bass drum. (Paris, II., 158, and I., 159.) A certain facetious representative
has rehearsals of the performance in his own house. "Lejeune, to feed his bloodthirsty imagination,
had a small guillotine put up, on which he cut off the heads of all the poultry consumed at
his table.... Often, in the middle of the repast, he had it brought in and set to work for
the amusement of his guests." (Moniteur, XXIV., 607, session of June 1, 1795, letter from the
district of Besançon, and with the letter, the confirmatory document.) "This guillotine, says
the reporter, is deposited with the Committee of Legislation."]

CHAPTER III. THE RULERS. (continued).

I. The Central Government Administration.

     The administrative body at Paris.--Composition of the group
     out of which it was recruited.--Deterioration of this
     group.--Weeding-out of the Section Assemblies.--Weeding out
     of the popular clubs.--Pressure of the government.

To provide these local sovereigns with the subordinate lieutenants and agents which they require,
we have the local Jacobin population, and we have seen the composition of the recruits,[3301]

* the distressed and the perverted of every class and degree, especially the lowest,

* the castaways,

* envious and resentful subordinates,

* small shopkeepers in debt,

* the migrating, high-living workers,

* barflies,

* vagrants,

* men of the gutters,

* street-walkers,

--in short, every species of "anti-social vermin," male and female,[3302] including a few honest
crack-brains into which the fashionable theory had freely found its way; the rest, and by far
the largest number, are veritable beasts of prey, speculating on the established order of things
and adopting the revolutionary faith only because it provides food for their appetites.--In
Paris, they number five or six thousand, and, after Thermidor, there is about the same number,
the same appetites rallying them around the same dogma,[3303] levelers and terrorists, "some
because they are poor, others because they have broken off the habit of working at their trade,"
furious with "the scoundrels who own a coach house, against the rich and the hoarders of objects
of prime necessity." Many of them "having soiled themselves during the Revolution, ready to
do it again provided the rich rascals, monopolists and merchants can all be killed," all "frequenters
of popular clubs who think themselves philosophers, although most of them are unable to read,"
at the head of them the remnant of the most notorious political bandits,

* the famous post-master, Drouet, who, in the tribune at the Convention, declared himself a
"brigand,"[3304]

* Javogues, the robber of Montbrison and the "Nero of Ain,"

* the drunkard Casset, formerly a silk-worker and later the pasha of Thionville,

* Bertrand, the friend of Charlier, the ex-mayor and executioner of Lyons,

* Darthé, ex-secretary of Lebon and the executioner at Arras,

* Rossignol and nine other Septembriseurs of the Abbaye and the Carmelites, and, finally, the
great apostle of despotic communism,

* Babeuf, who, sentenced to twenty years in irons for the falsification of public contracts,
and as needy as he is vicious, rambles about Paris airing his disappointed ambitions and empty
pockets along with the swaggering crew who, if not striving to reach the throne by a new massacre,[3305]
tramp through the streets slipshod, for lack of money "to redeem a pair of boots at the shoemakers,"
or to sell some snuff-box their last resource, for a morning dram.[3306]

In this class we see the governing rabble fully and distinctly. Separated from its forced adherents
and the official robots who serve it as they would any other power, it stands out pure and
unalloyed by any neutral influx; we recognize here the permanent residue, the deep, settled
slime of the social sewer. It is to this sink of vice and ignorance that the revolutionary
government betakes itself for its staff-officers and its administrative bodies.

Nowhere else could they be found. For the daily task imposed upon them, and which must be done
by them, is robbery and murder; excepting the pure fanatics, who are few in number, only brutes
and blackguards have the aptitudes and tastes for such business. In Paris, as in the provinces,
it is from the clubs or popular associations in which they congregate, that they are sought
for.--Each section of Paris contains one of these clubs, in all forty-eight, rallied around
the central club in the Rue St. Honoré, forty-eight district alliances of professional rioters
and brawlers, the rebels and blackguards of the social army, all the men and women incapable
of devoting themselves to a regular life and useful labor,[3307] especially those who, on the
31st of May and 2nd of June, had aided the Paris Commune and the "Mountain" in violating the
Convention. They recognize each other by this sign that, "each would be hung in case of a counter-revolution,"[3308]
laying it down "as an incontestable fact that, should a single aristocrat be spared, all of
them would mount the scaffold."[3309] They are naturally wary and they stick together: in their
clique "everything is done on the basis of good fellowship;"[3310] no one is admitted except
on the condition of having proved his qualifications "on the 10th of August and 31st of May."[3311]
And, as they have made their way into the Commune and into the revolutionary committees behind
victorious leaders, they are able, through the certificates of civism which these arbitrarily
grant or refuse, to exclude, not only from political life but, again, from civil life, whoever
is not of their party.

"See," writes one of Danton's correspondents,[3312] "the sort of persons who easily obtain
these certificates,--the Ronsins, the Jourdans, the Maillards, the Vincents, all bankrupts,
keepers of gambling-hells and cut-throats. Ask these individuals whether they have paid the
patriotic contribution, whether they regularly pay the usual taxes, whether they give to the
poor of their sections, to the volunteer soldiers, etc.; whether they mount guard or see it
regularly done, whether they have made a loyal declaration for the forced loan. You will find
that they have not.... The Commune issues certificates of civism to its satellites and refuses
them to the best citizens."

The monopoly is obvious; they make no attempt to conceal it; six weeks later,[3313] it becomes
official: several revolutionary committees decide not to grant certificates of civism to citizens
who are not members of a popular club." And strict exclusion goes on increasing from month
to month. Old certificates are canceled and new ones imposed, which new certificates have new
formalities added to them, a larger number of endorsers being required and certain kinds of
guarantees being rejected; there is greater strictness in relation to the requisite securities
and qualifications; the candidate is put off until fuller information can be obtained about
him; he is rejected at the slightest suspicion:[3314] he is only too fortunate if he is tolerated
in the Republic as a passive subject, if he is content to be taxed and taxed when they please,
and if he is not sent to join the "suspects" in prison; whoever does not belong to the band
does not belong to the community.

Amongst themselves and in their popular club it is worse, for

"the eagerness to get any office leads to every one denouncing each other; "[3315]

consequently, at the Jacobin club in the rue St. Honoré, and in the branch clubs of the quarter,
there is constant purging, and always in the same sense, until the faction is cleansed of all
honest or passable alloy and only a minority remains, which has its own way at every balloting.
One of them announces that, in his club, eighty doubtful members have already been gotten rid
of; another that, in his club, one hundred are going to be excluded.[3316] On Ventose 23, in
the "Bon-Conseil" club, most of the members examined are rejected: "they are so strict that
a man who cannot show that he acted energetically in critical times, cannot form part of the
assembly; he is set aside for a mere trifle." On Ventôse 13, in the same club, "out of twenty-six
examined, seven only are admitted; one citizen, a tobacco dealer, aged sixty-eight, who has
always performed his duty, is rejected for having called the president Monsieur, and for having
spoken in the tribune bareheaded; two members, after this, insisted on his being a Moderate,
which is enough to keep him out." Those who remain, consist of the most restless and most loquacious,
the most eager for office, the self-mutilated club being thus reduced to a nucleus of charlatans
and scoundrels.

To these spontaneous eliminations through which the club deteriorates, add the constant pressure
through which the Committee of Public Safety frightens and degrades it. The lower the revolutionary
government sinks, and the more it concentrates its power, the more servile and sanguinary do
its agents and employees become. It strikes right and left as a warning; it imprisons or decapitates
the turbulent among its own clients, the secondary demagogues who are impatient at not being
principal demagogues, the bold who think of striking a fresh blow in the streets, Jacques Roux,
Vincent, Momoro, Hébert, leaders of the Cordeliers club and of the Commune. After these, the
indulgent who are disposed to exercise some discernment or moderation in terrorism, Camille
Desmoulins, Danton and their adherents; and lastly, many others who are more or less doubtful,
compromised or compromising, wearied or eccentric, from Maillard to Chaumette, from Antonelle
to Chabot, from Westermann to Clootz. Each of the proscribed has a gang of followers, and suddenly
the whole gang are obliged to do a volte-face; those who were able to show initiative, grovel,
while those who could show mercy, become hardened. Henceforth, amongst the subaltern Jacobins,
the roots of independence, humanity, and loyalty, hard to extirpate even in an ignoble and
cruel nature, are eradicated even to the last fiber, the revolutionary staff, already so debased,
becoming more and more degraded, until it is worthy of the office assigned to it. The confidants
of Hébert, those who listen to Chaumette, the comrades of Westermann, the officers of Ronsin,
the faithful readers of Camille, the admirers and devotees of Danton, all are bound to publicly
repudiate their incarcerated friend or leader and approve of the decree which sends him to
the scaffold, to applaud his calumniators, to overwhelm him on trial: this or that judge or
juryman, who is one of Danton's partisans, is obliged to stifle a defense of him, and, knowing
him to be innocent, pronounce him guilty; one who had often dined with Desmoulins is not only
to guillotine him, but, in addition to this, to guillotine his young widow. Moreover, in the
revolutionary committees, at the Commune, in the offices of the Committee of General Safety,
in the bureau of the Central Police, at the headquarters of the armed force, at the revolutionary
Tribunal, the service to which they are compelled to do becomes daily more onerous and more
repulsive. To denounce neighbors, to arrest colleagues, to go and seize innocent persons, known
to be such, in their beds, to select in the prisons the thirty or forty unfortunates who form
the daily food of the guillotine, to "amalgamate" them haphazard, to try them and condemn them
in a lot, to escort octogenarian women and girls of sixteen to the scaffold, even under the
knife-blade, to see heads dropping and bodies swinging, to contrive means for getting rid of
a multitude of corpses, and for removing the too-visible stains of blood. Of what species do
the beings consist, who can accept such a task, and perform it day after day, with the prospect
of doing it indefinitely? Fouquier-Tinville himself succumbs. One evening, on his way to the
Committee of Public Safety, "he feels unwell" on the Pont-Neuf and exclaims: "I think I see
the ghosts of the dead following us, especially those of the patriots I have had guillotined!"[3317]
And at another time: "I would rather plow the ground than be public prosecutor. If I could,
I would resign."--The government, as the system becomes aggravated, is forced to descend lower
still that it may find suitable instruments; it finds them now only in the lowest depths: in
Germinal, to renew the Commune, in Floréal, to renew the ministries, in Prairial, to re-compose
the revolutionary Tribunal, month after month, purging and re-constituting the committees of
each quarter[3318] of the city. In vain does Robespierre, writing and re-writing his secret
lists, try to find men able to maintain the system; he always falls back on the same names,
those of unknown persons, illiterate, about a hundred knaves or fools with four or five second-class
despots or fanatics among them, as malevolent and as narrow as himself.--The purifying crucible
has been used too often and for too long a time; it has overheated; what was sound, or nearly
so, in the elements of the primitive fluid has been forcibly evaporated; the rest has fermented
and become acid; nothing remains in the bottom of the vessel but the lees of stupidity and
wickedness, their concentrated and corrosive dregs.

II. Subaltern Jacobins.

     Quality of subaltern leaders.--How they rule in the section
     assemblies.--How they seize and hold office.

Such are the subordinate sovereigns[3319] who in Paris, during 14 months dispose as they please,
of fortunes, liberties and lives.--And first, in the section assemblies, which still maintain
a semblance of popular sovereignty, they rule despotically and uncontested.--

"A dozen or fifteen men wearing a red cap,[3320] well-informed or not, claim the exclusive
right of speaking and acting, and if any other citizen with honest motives happens to propose
measures which he thinks proper, and which really are so, no attention is paid to these measures,
or, if it is, it is only to show the members composing the assemblage of how little account
they are. These measures are accordingly rejected, solely because they are not presented by
one of the men in a red cap, or by somebody like themselves, initiated in the mysteries of
the section."

"Sometimes," says one of the leaders,[3321] "we find only ten members of the club at the general
assembly of the section; but there are enough of us to intimidate the rest. Should any citizen
of the section make a proposition we do not like, we rise and shout that he is an schemer,
or a signer (of former constitutional petitions). In this way we impose silence on those who
are not in line with the club."--

Since September, 1793, operation is all the easier because the majority, is now composed of
beasts of burden, ruled with an iron hand.

"When something has to be effected that depends on intrigue or on private interest,[3322] the
motion is always put by one of the members of the Revolutionary Committee of the section, or
by one of those fanatical patriots who join in with the Committee, and otherwise act as its
spies. Immediately the ignorant men, to whom Danton has allowed forty sous for each meeting,
and who, from now on crowd an assembly, where they never came before, welcome the proposition
with loud applause, shouting and demanding a vote, and the act is passed unanimously, notwithstanding
the contrary opinions of all well-informed and honest citizens. Should any one dare make an
objection, he would run the risk of imprisonment as a suspect,[3323] after being treated as
an aristocrat or federalist, or at least, refused a certificate of civism, ( a serious matter)
if he had the misfortune to need one, did his survival depend on this, either as employee or
pensioner."--In the Maison-Commune section, most of the auditory are masons, "excellent patriots,"
says one of the clubbists of the quarter:[3324] they always vote on our side; we make them
do what we want." Numbers of day-laborers, cab-drivers, cartmen and workmen of every class,
thus earn their forty sous, and have no idea that anything else might be demanded from them.
On entering the hall, when the meeting opens, they write down their names, after which they
go out "to take a drink," without thinking themselves obliged to listen to the rigmarole of
the orators; towards the end, they come back, make all the noise that is required of them with
their lungs, feet and hands, and then go and "take back their card and get their money."[3325]--With
paid applauders of this stamp, they soon get the better of any opponents, or, rather, all opposition
is suppressed beforehand. "The best citizens keep silent" in the section assemblies, or "stay
away;" these are simply "gambling-shops" where "the most absurd, the most unjust, the most
impolitic of resolutions are passed at every moment.[3326] Moreover, citizens are ruined there
by the unlimited sectional expenditure, which exceeds the usual taxation and the communal expenses,
already very heavy. At one time, some carpenter or locksmith, member of the Revolutionary Committee,
wants to construct, enlarge or decorate a hall, and it is necessary to agree with him. Again,
a poor speech is made, full of exaggeration and political extravagance, of which three, four,
five and six thousand impressions are ordered to be printed. Then, to cap the climax, following
the example of the Commune, no accounts are rendered, or, if this is done for form's sake,
no fault must be found with them, under penalty of suspicion, etc."--The twelve leaders, proprietors
and distributors of civism, have only to agree amongst themselves to share the profits, each
according to his appetite; henceforth, cupidity and vanity are free to sacrifice the common
weal, under cover of the common interest.--The pasture is vast and it is at the disposal of
the leaders. In one of his orders of the day, Henriot says:[3327]

