DEDICATION.

 TO THE
 SURVIVING SUFFERERS
 OF THE
 APPALLING CALAMITY AT JOHNSTOWN
 AND
 NEIGHBORING VILLAGES
 THIS WORK
 WHICH RELATES THE THRILLING STORY
 OF THE GREAT DISASTER
 IS DEDICATED.

 THE
 JOHNSTOWN HORROR!!!

 OR

 VALLEY OF DEATH,

 BEING

 A COMPLETE AND THRILLING ACCOUNT OF THE AWFUL
 FLOODS AND THEIR APPALLING RUIN,

 CONTAINING

 Graphic Descriptions of the Terrible Rush of Waters; the
 great Destruction of Houses, Factories, Churches, Towns,
 and Thousands of Human Lives; Heartrending Scenes
 of Agony, Separation of Loved Ones, Panic-stricken
 Multitudes and their Frantic
 Efforts to Escape a Horrible Fate.

 COMPRISING

 THRILLING TALES OF HEROIC DEEDS; NARROW ESCAPES
 FROM THE JAWS OF DEATH; FRIGHTFUL HAVOC BY
 FIRE; DREADFUL SUFFERINGS OF SURVIVORS;
 PLUNDERING BODIES OF VICTIMS, ETC.

 TOGETHER WITH

 Magnificent Exhibitions of Popular Sympathy; Quick
 Aid from every City and State; Millions of Dollars
 Sent for the Relief of the Stricken Sufferers.

 By JAMES HERBERT WALKER,
 THE WELL KNOWN AUTHOR.

 FULLY ILLUSTRATED WITH SCENES OF THE GREAT CALAMITY.

 H.J. SMITH & CO.,
 249 South Sixth St., Philadelphia

 CHICAGO, ILL.:
 NOS. 341-351 DEARBORN ST.

 KANSAS CITY, MO.:
 NO. 614 EAST SIXTH ST.

 OAKLAND, CAL.
 NO. 1605 TELEGRAPH AVE.

COPYRIGHTED, 1889.

PREFACE

The whole country has been profoundly startled at the Terrible Calamity which has swept thousands
of human beings to instant death at Johnstown and neighboring villages. The news came with
the suddenness of a lightning bolt falling from the sky. A romantic valley, filled with busy
factories, flourishing places of business, multitudes of happy homes and families, has been
suddenly transformed into a scene of awful desolation. Frightful ravages of Flood and Fire
have produced in one short hour a destruction which surpasses the records of all modern disasters.
No calamity in recent times has so appalled the civilized world. What was a peaceful, prosperous
valley a little time ago is to-day a huge sepulchre, filled with the shattered ruins of houses,
factories, banks, churches, and the ghastly corpses of the dead.

This book contains a thrilling description of this awful catastrophe, which has shocked both
hemispheres. It depicts with graphic power the terrible scenes of the great disaster, and relates
the fearful story with masterly effect.

The work treats of the great storm which devastated the country, deluging large sections, sweeping
away bridges, swelling rivulets to rivers, prostrating forests, and producing incalculable
damage to life and property; of the sudden rise in the Conemaugh River and tributary streams,
weakening the dam thrown across the fated valley, and endangering the lives of 50,000 people;
of the heroic efforts of a little band of men to stay the flood and avert the direful calamity;
of the swift ride down the valley to warn the inhabitants of their impending fate, and save
them from instant death; of the breaking away of the imprisoned waters after all efforts had
failed to hold them back; of the rush and roar of the mighty torrent, plunging down the valley
with sounds like advancing thunder, reverberating like the booming of cannon among the hills;
of the frightful havoc attending the mad flood descending with incredible velocity, and a force
which nothing could resist; of the rapid rise of the waters, flooding buildings, driving the
terrified inhabitants to the upper stories and roofs in the desperate effort to escape their
doom; of hundreds of houses crashing down the surging river, carrying men, women and children
beyond the hope of rescue; of a night of horrors, multitudes dying amid the awful terrors of
flood and fire, plunged under the wild torrent, buried in mire, or consumed in devouring flames;
of helpless creatures rending the air with pitiful screams crying aloud in their agony, imploring
help with outstretched hands, and finally sinking with no one to save them.

Whole families were lost and obliterated, perishing together in a watery tomb, or ground to
atoms by floating timbers and wreck; households were suddenly bereft--some of fathers, others
of mothers, others of children, neighbors and friends; frantic efforts were made to rescue
the victims of the flood, render aid to those who were struggling against death, and mitigate
the terrors of the horrible disaster. There were noble acts of heroism, strong men and frail
women and children putting their own lives in peril to save those of their loved ones.

The terrible scene at Johnstown bridge, where thousands were consumed was the greatest funeral
pyre known in the history of the world. It was ghastly work--that of recovering the bodies
of the dead; dragging them from the mire in which they were imbedded, from the ruins in which
they were crushed, or from the burning wreck which was consuming them. Hundreds of bodies were
mutilated and disfigured beyond the possibility of identifying them, all traces of individual
form and features utterly destroyed. There were multitudes of corpses awaiting coffins for
their burial, putrefying under the sun, and filling the air with the sickening stench of death.
There were ghouls who robbed the bodies of the victims, stripping off their jewels--even cutting
off fingers to obtain rings, and plundering pockets of their money.

Summary vengeance was inflicted upon prowling thieves; some of whom were driven into the merciless
waters to perish, while others were shot or hanged by the neck until they were dead. The burial
of hundreds of the known and unknown, without minister or obsequies, without friend or mourner,
without surviving relatives to take a last look or shed a tear, was one of the appalling spectacles.
There was the breathless suspense and anxiety of those who feared the worst, who waited in
vain for news of the safety of their friends, and at last were compelled to believe that their
loved ones had perished.

The terrible shock attending the horrible accounts of the great calamity, was followed by the
sudden outburst and exhibition of universal grief and sympathy. Despatches from the President,
Governors of States, and Mayors of Cities, announced that speedy aid would be furnished. The
magnificent charity that came to the rescue with millions of dollars, immense contributions
of food and clothing, personal services and heroic efforts, is one impressive part of this
graphic story. Rich and poor alike gave freely, many persons dividing their last dollar to
aid those who had lost their all.

These thrilling scenes are depicted, and these wonderful facts are related, in THE JOHNSTOWN
HORROR, by eye-witnesses who saw the fatal flood and its direful effects. No book so intensely
exciting has ever been issued. The graphic story has an awful fascination, and will be read
throughout the land.

CONTENTS.

                                                                  PAGE
 CHAPTER I.

 The Appalling News,                                                17

 CHAPTER II.

 Death and Desolation,                                              50

 CHAPTER III.

 The Horrors Increase,                                              74

 CHAPTER IV.

 Multiplication of Terrors,                                        104

 CHAPTER V.

 The Awful Work of Death,                                          116

 CHAPTER VI.

 Shadows of Despair,                                               129

 CHAPTER VII.

 Burial of the Victims,                                            146

 CHAPTER VIII.

 Johnstown and its Industries,                                     154

 CHAPTER IX.

 A View of the Wreck,                                              164

 CHAPTER X.

