We do not often hear of great women, as we do of great men. It is of good women that we mostly
hear; and it is probable that by determining the character of men and women for good, they
are doing even greater work than if they were to paint great pictures, write great books, or
compose great operas. "It is quite true," said Joseph de Maistre, "that women have produced
no CHEFS-DOEUVRE. They have written no 'Iliad,' nor 'Jerusalem Delivered,' nor 'Hamlet,' nor
'Phaedre,' nor 'Paradise Lost,' nor 'Tartuffe;' they have designed no Church of St. Peter's,
composed no 'Messiah,' carved no 'Apollo Belvidere,' painted no 'Last Judgment;' they have
invented neither algebra, nor telescopes, nor steam-engines; but they have done something far
greater and better than all this, for it is at their knees that upright and virtuous men and
women have been trained--the most excellent productions in the world."

De Maistre, in his letters and writings, speaks of his own mother with immense love and reverence.
Her noble character made all other women venerable in his eyes. He described her as his "sublime
mother"--"an angel to whom God had lent a body for a brief season." To her he attributed the
bent of his character, and all his bias towards good; and when he had grown to mature years,
while acting as ambassador at the Court of St. Petersburg, he referred to her noble example
and precepts as the ruling influence in his life.

One of the most charming features in the character of Samuel Johnson, notwithstanding his rough
and shaggy exterior, was the tenderness with which he invariably spoke of his mother [115]--a
woman of strong understanding, who firmly implanted in his mind, as he himself acknowledges,
his first impressions of religion. He was accustomed, even in the time of his greatest difficulties,
to contribute largely, out of his slender means, to her comfort; and one of his last acts of
filial duty was to write 'Rasselas' for the purpose of paying her little debts and defraying
her funeral charges.

George Washington was only eleven years of age--the eldest of five children--when his father
died, leaving his mother a widow. She was a woman of rare excellence--full of resources, a
good woman of business, an excellent manager, and possessed of much strength of character.
She had her children to educate and bring up, a large household to govern, and extensive estates
to manage, all of which she accomplished with complete success. [116]

The biographer of Cromwell says little about the Protector's father, but dwells upon the character
of his mother, whom he describes as a woman of rare vigour and decision of purpose: "A woman,"
he says, "possessed of the glorious faculty of self-help when other assistance failed her;
ready for the demands of fortune in its extremest adverse turn; of spirit and energy equal
to her mildness and patience; who, with the labour of her own hands, gave dowries to five daughters
sufficient to marry them into families as honourable but more wealthy than their own; whose
single pride was honesty, and whose passion was love; who preserved in the gorgeous palace
at Whitehall the simple tastes that distinguished her in the old brewery at Huntingdon; and
whose only care, amidst all her splendour, was for the safety of her son in his dangerous eminence."
[117]

We have spoken of the mother of Napoleon Buonaparte as a woman of great force of character.
Not less so was the mother of the Duke of Wellington, whom her son strikingly resembled in
features, person, and character; while his father was principally distinguished as a musical
composer and performer. [118] But, strange to say, Wellington's mother mistook him for a dunce;
and, for some reason or other, he was not such a favourite as her other children, until his
great deeds in after-life constrained her to be proud of him.

The Napiers were blessed in both parents, but especially in their mother, Lady Sarah Lennox,
who early sought to inspire her sons' minds with elevating thoughts, admiration of noble deeds,
and a chivalrous spirit, which became embodied in their lives, and continued to sustain them,
until death, in the path of duty and of honour.

Among statesmen, lawyers, and divines, we find marked mention made of the mothers of Lord Chancellors
Bacon, Erskine, and Brougham--all women of great ability, and, in the case of the first, of
great learning; as well as of the mothers of Canning, Curran, and President Adams--of Herbert,
Paley, and Wesley. Lord Brougham speaks in terms almost approaching reverence of his grandmother,
the sister of Professor Robertson, as having been mainly instrumental in instilling into his
mind a strong desire for information, and the first principles of that persevering energy in
the pursuit of every kind of knowledge which formed his prominent characteristic throughout life.

Canning's mother was an Irishwoman of great natural ability, for whom her gifted son entertained
the greatest love and respect to the close of his career. She was a woman of no ordinary intellectual
power. "Indeed," says Canning's biographer, "were we not otherwise assured of the fact from
direct sources, it would be impossible to contemplate his profound and touching devotion to
her, without being led to conclude that the object of such unchanging attachment must have
been possessed of rare and commanding qualities. She was esteemed by the circle in which she
lived, as a woman of great mental energy. Her conversation was animated and vigorous, and marked
by a distinct originality of manner and a choice of topics fresh and striking, and out of the
commonplace routine. To persons who were but slightly acquainted with her, the energy of her
manner had even something of the air of eccentricity." [119]

Curran speaks with great affection of his mother, as a woman of strong original understanding,
to whose wise counsel, consistent piety, and lessons of honourable ambition, which she diligently
enforced on the minds of her children, he himself principally attributed his success in life.
"The only inheritance," he used to say, "that I could boast of from my poor father, was the
very scanty one of an unattractive face and person; like his own; and if the world has ever
attributed to me something more valuable than face or person, or than earthly wealth, it was
that another and a dearer parent gave her child a portion from the treasure of her mind." [1110]

When ex-President Adams was present at the examination of a girls' school at Boston, he was
presented by the pupils with an address which deeply affected him; and in acknowledging it,
he took the opportunity of referring to the lasting influence which womanly training and association
had exercised upon his own life and character.

The Wesleys were peculiarly linked to their parents by natural piety, though the mother, rather
than the father, influenced their minds and developed their characters. The father was a man
of strong will, but occasionally harsh and tyrannical in his dealings with his family; [1111]
while the mother, with much strength of understanding and ardent love of truth, was gentle,
persuasive, affectionate, and simple. She was the teacher and cheerful companion of her children,
who gradually became moulded by her example. It was through the bias given by her to her sons'
minds in religious matters that they acquired the tendency which, even in early years, drew
to them the name of Methodists. In a letter to her son, Samuel Wesley, when a scholar at Westminster
in 1709, she said: "I would advise you as much as possible to throw your business into a certain
METHOD, by which means you will learn to improve every precious moment, and find an unspeakable
facility in the performance of your respective duties." This "method" she went on to describe,
exhorting her son "in all things to act upon principle;" and the society which the brothers
John and Charles afterwards founded at Oxford is supposed to have been in a great measure the
result of her exhortations.

In the case of poets, literary men, and artists, the influence of the mother's feeling and
taste has doubtless had great effect in directing the genius of their sons; and we find this
especially illustrated in the lives of Gray, Thomson, Scott, Southey, Bulwer, Schiller, and
Goethe. Gray inherited, almost complete, his kind and loving nature from his mother, while
his father was harsh and unamiable. Gray was, in fact, a feminine man--shy, reserved, and wanting
in energy,--but thoroughly irreproachable in life and character. The poet's mother maintained
the family, after her unworthy husband had deserted her; and, at her death, Gray placed on
her grave, in Stoke Pogis, an epitaph describing her as "the careful tender mother of many
children, one of whom alone had the misfortune to survive her." The poet himself was, at his
own desire, interred beside her worshipped grave.

Goethe, like Schiller, owed the bias of his mind and character to his mother, who was a woman
of extraordinary gifts. She was full of joyous flowing mother-wit, and possessed in a high
degree the art of stimulating young and active minds, instructing them in the science of life
out of the treasures of her abundant experience. [1112] After a lengthened interview with her,
an enthusiastic traveller said, "Now do I understand how Goethe has become the man he is."
Goethe himself affectionately cherished her memory. "She was worthy of life!" he once said
of her; and when he visited Frankfort, he sought out every individual who had been kind to
his mother, and thanked them all.

It was Ary Scheffer's mother--whose beautiful features the painter so loved to reproduce in
his pictures of Beatrice, St. Monica, and others of his works--that encouraged his study of
art, and by great self-denial provided him with the means of pursuing it. While living at Dordrecht,
in Holland, she first sent him to Lille to study, and afterwards to Paris; and her letters
to him, while absent, were always full of sound motherly advice, and affectionate womanly sympathy.
"If you could but see me," she wrote on one occasion, "kissing your picture, then, after a
while, taking it up again, and, with a tear in my eye, calling you 'my beloved son,' you would
comprehend what it costs me to use sometimes the stern language of authority, and to occasion
to you moments of pain. * * * Work diligently--be, above all, modest and humble; and when you
find yourself excelling others, then compare what you have done with Nature itself, or with
the 'ideal' of your own mind, and you will be secured, by the contrast which will be apparent,
against the effects of pride and presumption."

Long years after, when Ary Scheffer was himself a grandfather, he remembered with affection
the advice of his mother, and repeated it to his children. And thus the vital power of good
example lives on from generation to generation, keeping the world ever fresh and young. Writing
to his daughter, Madame Marjolin, in 1846, his departed mother's advice recurred to him, and
he said: "The word MUST--fix it well in your memory, dear child; your grandmother seldom had
it out of hers. The truth is, that through our lives nothing brings any good fruit except what
is earned by either the work of the hands, or by the exertion of one's self-denial. Sacrifices
must, in short, be ever going on if we would obtain any comfort or happiness. Now that I am
no longer young, I declare that few passages in my life afford me so much satisfaction as those
in which I made sacrifices, or denied myself enjoyments. 'Das Entsagen' [11the forbidden] is
the motto of the wise man. Self-denial is the quality of which Jesus Christ set us the example."
[1113]

The French historian Michelet makes the following touching reference to his mother in the Preface
to one of his most popular books, the subject of much embittered controversy at the time at
which it appeared:--

"Whilst writing all this, I have had in my mind a woman, whose strong and serious mind would
not have failed to support me in these contentions. I lost her thirty years ago [11I was a
child then]--nevertheless, ever living in my memory, she follows me from age to age.

"She suffered with me in my poverty, and was not allowed to share my better fortune. When young,
I made her sad, and now I cannot console her. I know not even where her bones are: I was too
poor then to buy earth to bury her!"

"And yet I owe her much. I feel deeply that I am the son of woman. Every instant, in my ideas
and words [11not to mention my features and gestures], I find again my mother in myself. It
is my mother's blood which gives me the sympathy I feel for bygone ages, and the tender remembrance
of all those who are now no more."

"What return then could I, who am myself advancing towards old age, make her for the many things
I owe her? One, for which she would have thanked me--this protest in favour of women and mothers."
[1114]

But while a mother may greatly influence the poetic or artistic mind of her son for good, she
may also influence it for evil. Thus the characteristics of Lord Byron--the waywardness of
his impulses, his defiance of restraint, the bitterness of his hate, and the precipitancy of
his resentments--were traceable in no small degree to the adverse influences exercised upon
his mind from his birth by his capricious, violent, and headstrong mother. She even taunted
her son with his personal deformity; and it was no unfrequent occurrence, in the violent quarrels
which occurred between them, for her to take up the poker or tongs, and hurl them after him
as he fled from her presence. [1115] It was this unnatural treatment that gave a morbid turn
to Byron's after-life; and, careworn, unhappy, great, and yet weak as he was, he carried about
with him the mother's poison which he had sucked in his infancy. Hence he exclaims, in his
'Childe Harold':--

      "Yet must I think less wildly:--I have thought
        Too long and darkly, till my brain became,
      In its own eddy boiling and o'erwrought,
        A whirling gulf of phantasy and flame:
      And thus, UNTAUGHT IN YOUTH MY HEART TO TAME,
        MY SPRINGS OF LIFE WERE POISONED."

In like manner, though in a different way, the character of Mrs. Foote, the actor's mother,
was curiously repeated in the life of her joyous, jovial-hearted son. Though she had been heiress
to a large fortune, she soon spent it all, and was at length imprisoned for debt. In this condition
she wrote to Sam, who had been allowing her a hundred a year out of the proceeds of his acting:-"Dear
Sam, I am in prison for debt; come and assist your loving mother, E. Foote." To which her son
characteristically replied--"Dear mother, so am I; which prevents his duty being paid to his
loving mother by her affectionate son, Sam Foote."

A foolish mother may also spoil a gifted son, by imbuing his mind with unsound sentiments.
Thus Lamartine's mother is said to have trained him in altogether erroneous ideas of life,
in the school of Rousseau and Bernardin de St.-Pierre, by which his sentimentalism, sufficiently
strong by nature, was exaggerated instead of repressed: [1116] and he became the victim of
tears, affectation, and improvidence, all his life long. It almost savours of the ridiculous
to find Lamartine, in his 'Confidences,' representing himself as a "statue of Adolescence raised
as a model for young men." [1117] As he was his mother's spoilt child, so he was the spoilt
child of his country to the end, which was bitter and sad. Sainte-Beuve says of him: "He was
the continual object of the richest gifts, which he had not the power of managing, scattering
and wasting them--all, excepting, the gift of words, which seemed inexhaustible, and on which
he continued to play to the end as on an enchanted flute." [1118]

We have spoken of the mother of Washington as an excellent woman of business; and to possess
such a quality as capacity for business is not only compatible with true womanliness, but is
in a measure essential to the comfort and wellbeing of every properly-governed family. Habits
of business do not relate to trade merely, but apply to all the practical affairs of life--to
everything that has to be arranged, to be organised, to be provided for, to be done. And in
all these respects the management of a family, and of a household, is as much a matter of business
as the management of a shop or of a counting-house. It requires method, accuracy, organization,
industry, economy, discipline, tact, knowledge, and capacity for adapting means to ends. All
this is of the essence of business; and hence business habits are as necessary to be cultivated
by women who would succeed in the affairs of home--in other words, who would make home happy--as
by men in the affairs of trade, of commerce, or of manufacture.

The idea has, however, heretofore prevailed, that women have no concern with such matters,
and that business habits and qualifications relate to men only. Take, for instance, the knowledge
of figures. Mr. Bright has said of boys, "Teach a boy arithmetic thoroughly, and he is a made
man." And why?--Because it teaches him method, accuracy, value, proportions, relations. But
how many girls are taught arithmetic well?--Very few indeed. And what is the consequence?--When
the girl becomes a wife, if she knows nothing of figures, and is innocent of addition and multiplication,
she can keep no record of income and expenditure, and there will probably be a succession of
mistakes committed which may be prolific in domestic contention. The woman, not being up to
her business--that is, the management of her domestic affairs in conformity with the simple
principles of arithmetic--will, through sheer ignorance, be apt to commit extravagances, though
unintentional, which may be most injurious to her family peace and comfort.

Method, which is the soul of business, is also of essential importance in the home. Work can
only be got through by method. Muddle flies before it, and hugger-mugger becomes a thing unknown.
Method demands punctuality, another eminently business quality. The unpunctual woman, like
the unpunctual man, occasions dislike, because she consumes and wastes time, and provokes the
reflection that we are not of sufficient importance to make her more prompt. To the business
man, time is money; but to the business woman, method is more--it is peace, comfort, and domestic
prosperity.

Prudence is another important business quality in women, as in men. Prudence is practical wisdom,
and comes of the cultivated judgment. It has reference in all things to fitness, to propriety;
judging wisely of the right thing to be done, and the right way of doing it. It calculates
the means, order, time, and method of doing. Prudence learns from experience, quickened by
knowledge.

For these, amongst other reasons, habits of business are necessary to be cultivated by all
women, in order to their being efficient helpers in the world's daily life and work. Furthermore,
to direct the power of the home aright, women, as the nurses, trainers, and educators of children,
need all the help and strength that mental culture can give them.

Mere instinctive love is not sufficient. Instinct, which preserves the lower creatures, needs
no training; but human intelligence, which is in constant request in a family, needs to be
educated. The physical health of the rising generation is entrusted to woman by Providence;
and it is in the physical nature that the moral and mental nature lies enshrined. It is only
by acting in accordance with the natural laws, which before she can follow woman must needs
understand, that the blessings of health of body, and health of mind and morals, can be secured
at home. Without a knowledge of such laws, the mother's love too often finds its recompence
only in a child's coffin. [1119]

It is a mere truism to say that the intellect with which woman as well as man is endowed, has
been given for use and exercise, and not "to fust in her unused." Such endowments are never
conferred without a purpose. The Creator may be lavish in His gifts, but he is never wasteful.

Woman was not meant to be either an unthinking drudge, or the merely pretty ornament of man's
leisure. She exists for herself, as well as for others; and the serious and responsible duties
she is called upon to perform in life, require the cultivated head as well as the sympathising
heart. Her highest mission is not to be fulfilled by the mastery of fleeting accomplishments,
on which so much useful time is now wasted; for, though accomplishments may enhance the charms
of youth and beauty, of themselves sufficiently charming, they will be found of very little
use in the affairs of real life.

The highest praise which the ancient Romans could express of a noble matron was that she sat
at home and span--"DOMUM MANSIT, LANAM FECIT." In our own time, it has been said that chemistry
enough to keep the pot boiling, and geography enough to know the different rooms in her house,
was science enough for any woman; whilst Byron, whose sympathies for woman were of a very imperfect
kind, professed that he would limit her library to a Bible and a cookery-book. But this view
of woman's character and culture is as absurdly narrow and unintelligent, on the one hand,
as the opposite view, now so much in vogue, is extravagant and unnatural on the other--that
woman ought to be educated so as to be as much as possible the equal of man; undistinguishable
from him, except in sex; equal to him in rights and votes; and his competitor in all that makes
life a fierce and selfish struggle for place and power and money.

Speaking generally, the training and discipline that are most suitable for the one sex in early
life, are also the most suitable for the other; and the education and culture that fill the
mind of the man will prove equally wholesome for the woman. Indeed, all the arguments which
have yet been advanced in favour of the higher education of men, plead equally strongly in
favour of the higher education of women. In all the departments of home, intelligence will
add to woman's usefulness and efficiency. It will give her thought and forethought, enable
her to anticipate and provide for the contingencies of life, suggest improved methods of management,
and give her strength in every way. In disciplined mental power she will find a stronger and
safer protection against deception and imposture than in mere innocent and unsuspecting ignorance;
in moral and religious culture she will secure sources of influence more powerful and enduring
than in physical attractions; and in due self-reliance and self-dependence she will discover
the truest sources of domestic comfort and happiness.

But while the mind and character of women ought to be cultivated with a view to their own wellbeing,
they ought not the less to be educated liberally with a view to the happiness of others. Men
themselves cannot be sound in mind or morals if women be the reverse; and if, as we hold to
be the case, the moral condition of a people mainly depends upon the education of the home,
then the education of women is to be regarded as a matter of national importance. Not only
does the moral character but the mental strength of man find their best safeguard and support
in the moral purity and mental cultivation of woman; but the more completely the powers of
both are developed, the more harmonious and well-ordered will society be--the more safe and
certain its elevation and advancement.

When about fifty years since, the first Napoleon said that the great want of France was mothers,
he meant, in other words, that the French people needed the education of homes, provided over
by good, virtuous, intelligent women. Indeed, the first French Revolution presented one of
the most striking illustrations of the social mischiefs resulting from a neglect of the purifying
influence of women. When that great national outbreak occurred, society was impenetrated with
vice and profligacy. Morals, religion, virtue, were swamped by sensualism. The character of
woman had become depraved. Conjugal fidelity was disregarded; maternity was held in reproach;
family and home were alike corrupted. Domestic purity no longer bound society together. France
was motherless; the children broke loose; and the Revolution burst forth, "amidst the yells
and the fierce violence of women." [1120]

But the terrible lesson was disregarded, and again and again France has grievously suffered
from the want of that discipline, obedience, self-control, and self-respect which can only
be truly learnt at home. It is said that the Third Napoleon attributed the recent powerlessness
of France, which left her helpless and bleeding at the feet of her conquerors, to the frivolity
and lack of principle of the people, as well as to their love of pleasure--which, however,
it must be confessed, he himself did not a little to foster. It would thus seem that the discipline
which France still needs to learn, if she would be good and great, is that indicated by the
First Napoleon--home education by good mothers.

The influence of woman is the same everywhere. Her condition influences the morals, manners,
and character of the people in all countries. Where she is debased, society is debased; where
she is morally pure and enlightened, society will be proportionately elevated.

Hence, to instruct woman is to instruct man; to elevate her character is to raise his own;
to enlarge her mental freedom is to extend and secure that of the whole community. For Nations
are but the outcomes of Homes, and Peoples of Mothers.

But while it is certain that the character of a nation will be elevated by the enlightenment
and refinement of woman, it is much more than doubtful whether any advantage is to be derived
from her entering into competition with man in the rough work of business and polities. Women
can no more do men's special work in the world than men can do women's. And wherever woman
has been withdrawn from her home and family to enter upon other work, the result has been socially
disastrous. Indeed, the efforts of some of the best philanthropists have of late years been
devoted to withdrawing women from toiling alongside of men in coalpits, factories, nailshops,
and brickyards.

It is still not uncommon in the North for the husbands to be idle at home, while the mothers
and daughters are working in the factory; the result being, in many cases, an entire subversion
of family order, of domestic discipline, and of home rule. [1121] And for many years past,
in Paris, that state of things has been reached which some women desire to effect amongst ourselves.
The women there mainly attend to business--serving the BOUTIQUE, or presiding at the COMPTOIR--while
the men lounge about the Boulevards. But the result has only been homelessness, degeneracy,
and family and social decay.

Nor is there any reason to believe that the elevation and improvement of women are to be secured
by investing them with political power. There are, however, in these days, many believers in
the potentiality of "votes," [1122] who anticipate some indefinite good from the "enfranchisement"
of women. It is not necessary here to enter upon the discussion of this question. But it may
be sufficient to state that the power which women do not possess politically is far more than
compensated by that which they exercise in private life--by their training in the home those
who, whether as men or as women, do all the manly as well as womanly work of the world. The
Radical Bentham has said that man, even if he would, cannot keep power from woman; for that
she already governs the world "with the whole power of a despot," [1123] though the power that
she mainly governs by is love. And to form the character of the whole human race, is certainly
a power far greater than that which women could ever hope to exercise as voters for members
of Parliament, or even as lawmakers.

There is, however, one special department of woman's work demanding the earnest attention of
all true female reformers, though it is one which has hitherto been unaccountably neglected.
We mean the better economizing and preparation of human food, the waste of which at present,
for want of the most ordinary culinary knowledge, is little short of scandalous. If that man
is to be regarded as a benefactor of his species who makes two stalks of corn to grow where
only one grew before, not less is she to be regarded as a public benefactor who economizes
and turns to the best practical account the food-products of human skill and labour. The improved
use of even our existing supply would be equivalent to an immediate extension of the cultivable
acreage of our country--not to speak of the increase in health, economy, and domestic comfort.
Were our female reformers only to turn their energies in this direction with effect, they would
earn the gratitude of all households, and be esteemed as among the greatest of practical philanthropists.

CHAPTER III.--COMPANIONSHIP AND EXAMPLES

    "Keep good company, and you shall be of the number."
                                 -- GEORGE HERBERT.

    "For mine own part,
    I Shall be glad to learn of noble men."--SHAKSPEARE

    "Examples preach to th' eye--Care then, mine says,
    Not how you end but how you spend your days."
                  HENRY MARTEN--'LAST THOUGHTS.'

     "Dis moi qui t'admire, et je dirai qui tu es."--SAINTE-BEUVE

     "He that means to be a good limner will be sure to draw
     after the most excellent copies and guide every stroke of
     his pencil by the better pattern that lays before him; so he
     that desires that the table of his life may be fair, will be
     careful to propose the best examples, and will never be
     content till he equals or excels them."--OWEN FELTHAM

The natural education of the Home is prolonged far into life--indeed, it never entirely ceases.
But the time arrives, in the progress of years, when the Home ceases to exercise an exclusive
influence on the formation of character; and it is succeeded by the more artificial education
of the school and the companionship of friends and comrades, which continue to mould the character
by the powerful influence of example.

Men, young and old--but the young more than the old--cannot help imitating those with whom
they associate. It was a saying of George Herbert's mother, intended for the guidance of her
sons, "that as our bodies take a nourishment suitable to the meat on which we feed, so do our
souls as insensibly take in virtue or vice by the example or conversation of good or bad company."

Indeed, it is impossible that association with those about us should not produce a powerful
influence in the formation of character. For men are by nature imitators, and all persons are
more or less impressed by the speech, the manners, the gait, the gestures, and the very habits
of thinking of their companions. "Is example nothing?" said Burke. "It is everything. Example
is the school of mankind, and they will learn at no other." Burke's grand motto, which he wrote
for the tablet of the Marquis of Rockingham, is worth repeating: it was, "Remember--resemble--persevere."

Imitation is for the most part so unconscious that its effects are almost unheeded, but its
influence is not the less permanent on that account. It is only when an impressive nature is
placed in contact with an impressionable one, that the alteration in the character becomes
recognisable. Yet even the weakest natures exercise some influence upon those about them. The
approximation of feeling, thought, and habit is constant, and the action of example unceasing.

Emerson has observed that even old couples, or persons who have been housemates for a course
of years, grow gradually like each other; so that, if they were to live long enough, we should
scarcely be able to know them apart. But if this be true of the old, how much more true is
it of the young, whose plastic natures are so much more soft and impressionable, and ready
to take the stamp of the life and conversation of those about them!

"There has been," observed Sir Charles Bell in one of his letters, "a good deal said about
education, but they appear to me to put out of sight EXAMPLE, which is all-in-all. My best
education was the example set me by my brothers. There was, in all the members of the family,
a reliance on self, a true independence, and by imitation I obtained it." [121]

It is in the nature of things that the circumstances which contribute to form the character,
should exercise their principal influence during the period of growth. As years advance, example
and imitation become custom, and gradually consolidate into habit, which is of so much potency
that, almost before we know it, we have in a measure yielded up to it our personal freedom.

It is related of Plato, that on one occasion he reproved a boy for playing at some foolish
game. "Thou reprovest me," said the boy, "for a very little thing." "But custom," replied Plato,
"is not a little thing." Bad custom, consolidated into habit, is such a tyrant that men sometimes
cling to vices even while they curse them. They have become the slaves of habits whose power
they are impotent to resist. Hence Locke has said that to create and maintain that vigour of
mind which is able to contest the empire of habit, may be regarded as one of the chief ends
of moral discipline.

Though much of the education of character by example is spontaneous and unconscious, the young
need not necessarily be the passive followers or imitators of those about them. Their own conduct,
far more than the conduct of their companions, tends to fix the purpose and form the principles
of their life. Each possesses in himself a power of will and of free activity, which, if courageously
exercised, will enable him to make his own individual selection of friends and associates.
It is only through weakness of purpose that young people, as well as old, become the slaves
of their inclinations, or give themselves up to a servile imitation of others.

It is a common saying that men are known by the company they keep. The sober do not naturally
associate with the drunken, the refined with the coarse, the decent with the dissolute. To
associate with depraved persons argues a low taste and vicious tendencies, and to frequent
their society leads to inevitable degradation of character. "The conversation of such persons,"
says Seneca, "is very injurious; for even if it does no immediate harm, it leaves its seeds
in the mind, and follows us when we have gone from the speakers--a plague sure to spring up
in future resurrection."

If young men are wisely influenced and directed, and conscientiously exert their own free energies,
they will seek the society of those better than themselves, and strive to imitate their example.
In companionship with the good, growing natures will always find their best nourishment; while
companionship with the bad will only be fruitful in mischief. There are persons whom to know
is to love, honour, and admire; and others whom to know is to shun and despise,--"DONT LE SAVOIR
N'EST QUE BETERIE," as says Rabelais when speaking of the education of Gargantua. Live with
persons of elevated characters, and you will feel lifted and lighted up in them: "Live with
wolves," says the Spanish proverb, "and you will learn to howl."

Intercourse with even commonplace, selfish persons, may prove most injurious, by inducing a
dry, dull reserved, and selfish condition of mind, more or less inimical to true manliness
and breadth of character. The mind soon learns to run in small grooves, the heart grows narrow
and contracted, and the moral nature becomes weak, irresolute, and accommodating, which is
fatal to all generous ambition or real excellence.

On the other hand, association with persons wiser, better, and more experienced than ourselves,
is always more or less inspiring and invigorating. They enhance our own knowledge of life.
We correct our estimates by theirs, and become partners in their wisdom. We enlarge our field
of observation through their eyes, profit by their experience, and learn not only from what
they have enjoyed, but--which is still more instructive--from what they have suffered. If they
are stronger than ourselves, we become participators in their strength. Hence companionship
with the wise and energetic never fails to have a most valuable influence on the formation
of character--increasing our resources, strengthening our resolves, elevating our aims, and
enabling us to exercise greater dexterity and ability in our own affairs, as well as more effective
helpfulness of others.

"I have often deeply regretted in myself," says Mrs. Schimmelpenninck, "the great loss I have
experienced from the solitude of my early habits. We need no worse companion than our unregenerate
selves, and, by living alone, a person not only becomes wholly ignorant of the means of helping
his fellow-creatures, but is without the perception of those wants which most need help. Association
with others, when not on so large a scale as to make hours of retirement impossible, may be
considered as furnishing to an individual a rich multiplied experience; and sympathy so drawn
forth, though, unlike charity, it begins abroad, never fails to bring back rich treasures home.
Association with others is useful also in strengthening the character, and in enabling us,
while we never lose sight of our main object, to thread our way wisely and well." [122]

An entirely new direction may be given to the life of a young man by a happy suggestion, a
timely hint, or the kindly advice of an honest friend. Thus the life of Henry Martyn the Indian
missionary, seems to have been singularly influenced by a friendship which he formed, when
a boy, at Truro Grammar School. Martyn himself was of feeble frame, and of a delicate nervous
temperament. Wanting in animal spirits, he took but little pleasure in school sports; and being
of a somewhat petulant temper, the bigger boys took pleasure in provoking him, and some of
them in bullying him. One of the bigger boys, however, conceiving a friendship for Martyn,
took him under his protection, stood between him and his persecutors, and not only fought his
battles for him, but helped him with his lessons. Though Martyn was rather a backward pupil,
his father was desirous that he should have the advantage of a college education, and at the
age of about fifteen he sent him to Oxford to try for a Corpus scholarship, in which he failed.
He remained for two years more at the Truro Grammar School, and then went to Cambridge, where
he was entered at St. John's College. Who should he find already settled there as a student
but his old champion of the Truro Grammar School? Their friendship was renewed; and the elder
student from that time forward acted as the Mentor, of the younger one. Martyn was fitful in
his studies, excitable and petulant, and occasionally subject to fits of almost uncontrollable
rage. His big friend, on the other hand, was a steady, patient, hardworking fellow; and he
never ceased to watch over, to guide, and to advise for good his irritable fellow-student.
He kept Martyn out of the way of evil company, advised him to work hard, "not for the praise
of men, but for the glory of God;" and so successfully assisted him in his studies, that at
the following Christmas examination he was the first of his year. Yet Martyn's kind friend
and Mentor never achieved any distinction himself; he passed away into obscurity, leading,
most probably, a useful though an unknown career; his greatest wish in life having been to
shape the character of his friend, to inspire his soul with the love of truth, and to prepare
him for the noble work, on which he shortly after entered, of an Indian missionary.

A somewhat similar incident is said to have occurred in the college career of Dr. Paley. When
a student at Christ's College Cambridge, he was distinguished for his shrewdness as well as
his clumsiness, and he was at the same time the favourite and the butt of his companions. Though
his natural abilities were great, he was thoughtless, idle, and a spendthrift; and at the commencement
of his third year he had made comparatively little progress. After one of his usual night-dissipations,
a friend stood by his bedside on the following morning. "Paley," said he, "I have not been
able to sleep for thinking about you. I have been thinking what a fool you are! I have the
means of dissipation, and can afford to be idle: YOU are poor, and cannot afford it. I could
do nothing, probably, even were I to try: YOU are capable of doing anything. I have lain awake
all night thinking about your folly, and I have now come solemnly to warn you. Indeed, if you
persist in your indolence, and go on in this way, I must renounce your society altogether!"

It is said that Paley was so powerfully affected by this admonition, that from that moment
he became an altered man. He formed an entirely new plan of life, and diligently persevered
in it. He became one of the most industrious of students. One by one he distanced his competitors,
and at the end of the year he came out Senior Wrangler. What he afterwards accomplished as
an author and a divine is sufficiently well known.

No one recognised more fully the influence of personal example on the young than did Dr. Arnold.
It was the great lever with which he worked in striving to elevate the character of his school.
He made it his principal object, first to put a right spirit into the leading boys, by attracting
their good and noble feelings; and then to make them instrumental in propagating the same spirit
among the rest, by the influence of imitation, example, and admiration. He endeavoured to make
all feel that they were fellow-workers with himself, and sharers with him in the moral responsibility
for the good government of the place. One of the first effects of this highminded system of
management was, that it inspired the boys with strength and self-respect. They felt that they
were trusted. There were, of course, MAUVAIS SUJETS at Rugby, as there are at all schools;
and these it was the master's duty to watch, to prevent their bad example contaminating others.
On one occasion he said to an assistant-master: "Do you see those two boys walking together?
I never saw them together before. You should make an especial point of observing the company
they keep: nothing so tells the changes in a boy's character."

Dr. Arnold's own example was an inspiration, as is that of every great teacher. In his presence,
young men learned to respect themselves; and out of the root of self-respect there grew up
the manly virtues. "His very presence," says his biographer, "seemed to create a new spring
of health and vigour within them, and to give to life an interest and elevation which remained
with them long after they had left him; and dwelt so habitually in their thoughts as a living
image, that, when death had taken him away, the bond appeared to be still unbroken, and the
sense of separation almost lost in the still deeper sense of a life and a Union indestructible."
[123] And thus it was that Dr. Arnold trained a host of manly and noble characters, who spread
the influence of his example in all parts of the world.

So also was it said of Dugald Stewart, that he breathed the love of virtue into whole generations
of pupils. "To me," says the late Lord Cockburn, "his lectures were like the opening of the
heavens. I felt that I had a soul. His noble views, unfolded in glorious sentences, elevated
me into a higher world... They changed my whole nature." [124]

Character tells in all conditions of life. The man of good character in a workshop will give
the tone to his fellows, and elevate their entire aspirations. Thus Franklin, while a workman
in London, is said to have reformed the manners of an entire workshop. So the man of bad character
and debased energy will unconsciously lower and degrade his fellows. Captain John Brown--the
"marching-on Brown"--once said to Emerson, that "for a settler in a new country, one good believing
man is worth a hundred, nay, worth a thousand men without character." His example is so contagious,
that all other men are directly and beneficially influenced by him, and he insensibly elevates
and lifts them up to his own standard of energetic activity.

Communication with the good is invariably productive of good. The good character is diffusive
in his influence. "I was common clay till roses were planted in me," says some aromatic earth
in the Eastern fable. Like begets like, and good makes good. "It is astonishing," says Canon
Moseley, "how much good goodness makes. Nothing that is good is alone, nor anything bad; it
makes others good or others bad--and that other, and so on: like a stone thrown into a pond,
which makes circles that make other wider ones, and then others, till the last reaches the
shore.... Almost all the good that is in the world has, I suppose, thus come down to us traditionally
from remote times, and often unknown centres of good."

Hence it is that the life of every man is a daily inculcation of good or bad example to others.
The life of a good man is at the same time the most eloquent lesson of virtue and the most
severe reproof of vice. Dr. Hooker described the life of a pious clergyman of his acquaintance
as "visible rhetoric," convincing even the most godless of the beauty of goodness. And so the
good George Herbert said, on entering upon the duties of his parish: "Above all, I will be
sure to live well, because the virtuous life of a clergyman is the most powerful eloquence,
to persuade all who see it to reverence and love, and--at least to desire to live like him.
And this I will do," he added, "because I know we live in an age that hath more need of good
examples than precepts." It was a fine saying of the same good priest, when reproached with
doing an act of kindness to a poor man, considered beneath the dignity of his office,--that
the thought of such actions "would prove music to him at midnight." [126] Izaak Walton speaks
of a letter written by George Herbert to Bishop Andrewes, about a holy life, which the latter
"put into his bosom," and after showing it to his scholars, "did always return it to the place
where he first lodged it, and continued it so, near his heart, till the last day of his life."

Great is the power of goodness to charm and to command. The man inspired by it is the true
king of men, drawing all hearts after him. When General Nicholson lay wounded on his deathbed
before Delhi, he dictated this last message to his equally noble and gallant friend, Sir Herbert
Edwardes:--"Tell him," said he, "I should have been a better man if I had continued to live
with him, and our heavy public duties had not prevented my seeing more of him privately. I
was always the better for a residence with him and his wife, however short. Give my love to
them both!"

There are men in whose presence we feel as if we breathed a spiritual ozone, refreshing and
invigorating, like inhaling mountain air, or enjoying a bath of sunshine. The power of Sir
Thomas More's gentle nature was so great that it subdued the bad at the same time that it inspired
the good. Lord Brooke said of his deceased friend, Sir Philip Sidney, that "his wit and understanding
beat upon his heart, to make himself and others, not in word or opinion, but in life and action,
good and great."

The very sight of a great and good man is often an inspiration to the young, who cannot help
admiring and loving the gentle, the brave, the truthful, the magnanimous! Chateaubriand saw
Washington only once, but it inspired him for life. After describing the interview, he says:
"Washington sank into the tomb before any little celebrity had attached to my name. I passed
before him as the most unknown of beings. He was in all his glory--I in the depth of my obscurity.
My name probably dwelt not a whole day in his memory. Happy, however, was I that his looks
were cast upon me. I have felt warmed for it all the rest of my life. There is a virtue even
in the looks of a great man."

When Niebuhr died, his friend, Frederick Perthes, said of him: "What a contemporary! The terror
of all bad and base men, the stay of all the sterling and honest, the friend and helper of
youth." Perthes said on another occasion: "It does a wrestling man good to be constantly surrounded
by tried wrestlers; evil thoughts are put to flight when the eye falls on the portrait of one
in whose living presence one would have blushed to own them." A Catholic money-lender, when
about to cheat, was wont to draw a veil over the picture of his favourite saint. So Hazlitt
has said of the portrait of a beautiful female, that it seemed as if an unhandsome action would
be impossible in its presence. "It does one good to look upon his manly honest face," said
a poor German woman, pointing to a portrait of the great Reformer hung upon the wall of her
humble dwelling.

Even the portrait of a noble or a good man, hung up in a room, is companionship after a sort.
It gives us a closer personal interest in him. Looking at the features, we feel as if we knew
him better, and were more nearly related to him. It is a link that connects us with a higher
and better nature than our own. And though we may be far from reaching the standard of our
hero, we are, to a certain extent, sustained and fortified by his depicted presence constantly
before us.

Fox was proud to acknowledge how much he owed to the example and conversation of Burke. On
one occasion he said of him, that "if he was to put all the political information he had gained
from books, all that he had learned from science, or that the knowledge of the world and its
affairs taught him, into one scale, and the improvement he had derived from Mr. Burke's conversation
and instruction into the other, the latter would preponderate."

Professor Tyndall speaks of Faraday's friendship as "energy and inspiration." After spending
an evening with him he wrote: "His work excites admiration, but contact with him warms and
elevates the heart. Here, surely, is a strong man. I love strength, but let me not forget the
example of its union with modesty, tenderness, and sweetness, in the character of Faraday."

Even the gentlest natures are powerful to influence the character of others for good. Thus
Wordsworth seems to have been especially impressed by the character of his sister Dorothy,
who exercised upon his mind and heart a lasting influence. He describes her as the blessing
of his boyhood as well as of his manhood. Though two years younger than himself, her tenderness
and sweetness contributed greatly to mould his nature, and open his mind to the influences
of poetry:

        "She gave me eyes, she gave me ears,
         And humble cares, and delicate fears;
         A heart, the fountain of sweet tears,
                 And love and thought and joy."

Thus the gentlest natures are enabled, by the power of affection and intelligence, to mould
the characters of men destined to influence and elevate their race through all time.

Sir William Napier attributed the early direction of his character, first to the impress made
upon it by his mother, when a boy; and afterwards to the noble example of his commander, Sir
John Moore, when a man. Moore early detected the qualities of the young officer; and he was
one of those to whom the General addressed the encouragement, "Well done, my majors!" at Corunna.
Writing home to his mother, and describing the little court by which Moore was surrounded,
he wrote, "Where shall we find such a king?" It was to his personal affection for his chief
that the world is mainly indebted to Sir William Napier for his great book, 'The History of
the Peninsular War.' But he was stimulated to write the book by the advice of another friend,
the late Lord Langdale, while one day walking with him across the fields on which Belgravia
is now built. "It was Lord Langdale," he says, "who first kindled the fire within me." And
of Sir William Napier himself, his biographer truly says, that "no thinking person could ever
come in contact with him without being strongly impressed with the genius of the man."

The career of the late Dr. Marshall Hall was a lifelong illustration of the influence of character
in forming character. Many eminent men still living trace their success in life to his suggestions
and assistance, without which several valuable lines of study and investigation might not have
been entered on, at least at so early a period. He would say to young men about him, "Take
up a subject and pursue it well, and you cannot fail to succeed." And often he would throw
out a new idea to a young friend, saying, "I make you a present of it; there is fortune in
it, if you pursue it with energy." [127]

Such a power, exercised by men of genius, evokes courage, enthusiasm, and devotion. It is this
intense admiration for individuals--such as one cannot conceive entertained for a multitude--which
has in all times produced heroes and martyrs. It is thus that the mastery of character makes
itself felt. It acts by inspiration, quickening and vivifying the natures subject to its influence.

Great minds are rich in radiating force, not only exerting power, but communicating and even
creating it. Thus Dante raised and drew after him a host of great spirits--Petrarch, Boccacio,
Tasso, and many more. From him Milton learnt to bear the stings of evil tongues and the contumely
of evil days; and long years after, Byron, thinking of Dante under the pine-trees of Ravenna,
was incited to attune his harp to loftier strains than he had ever attempted before. Dante
inspired the greatest painters of Italy--Giotto, Orcagna, Michael Angelo, and Raphael. So Ariosto
and Titian mutually inspired one another, and lighted up each other's glory.

Great and good men draw others after them, exciting the spontaneous admiration of mankind.
This admiration of noble character elevates the mind, and tends to redeem it from the bondage
of self, one of the greatest stumbling blocks to moral improvement. The recollection of men
who have signalised themselves by great thoughts or great deeds, seems as if to create for
the time a purer atmosphere around us: and we feel as if our aims and purposes were unconsciously
elevated.

"Tell me whom you admire," said Sainte-Beuve, "and I will tell you what you are, at least as
regards your talents, tastes, and character." Do you admire mean men?--your own nature is mean.
Do you admire rich men?--you are of the earth, earthy. Do you admire men of title?--you are
a toad-eater, or a tuft-hunter. [128] Do you admire honest, brave, and manly men?--you are
yourself of an honest, brave, and manly spirit. [129]

It was a fine trait in the character of Prince Albert that he was always so ready to express
generous admiration of the good deeds of others. "He had the greatest delight," says the ablest
delineator of his character, "in anybody else saying a fine saying, or doing a great deed.
He would rejoice over it, and talk about it for days; and whether it was a thing nobly said
or done by a little child, or by a veteran statesman, it gave him equal pleasure. He delighted
in humanity doing well on any occasion and in any manner." [1210]

"No quality," said Dr. Johnson, "will get a man more friends than a sincere admiration of the
qualities of others. It indicates generosity of nature, frankness, cordiality, and cheerful
recognition of merit." It was to the sincere--it might almost be said the reverential--admiration
of Johnson by Boswell, that we owe one of the best biographies ever written. One is disposed
to think that there must have been some genuine good qualities in Boswell to have been attracted
by such a man as Johnson, and to have kept faithful to his worship in spite of rebuffs and
snubbings innumerable. Macaulay speaks of Boswell as an altogether contemptible person--as
a coxcomb and a bore--weak, vain, pushing, curious, garrulous; and without wit, humour, or
eloquence. But Carlyle is doubtless more just in his characterisation of the biographer, in
whom--vain and foolish though he was in many respects--he sees a man penetrated by the old
reverent feeling of discipleship, full of love and admiration for true wisdom and excellence.
Without such qualities, Carlyle insists, the 'Life of Johnson' never could have been written.
"Boswell wrote a good book," he says, "because he had a heart and an eye to discern wisdom,
and an utterance to render it forth; because of his free insight, his lively talent, and, above
all, of his love and childlike openmindedness."

Most young men of generous mind have their heroes, especially if they be book-readers. Thus
Allan Cunningham, when a mason's apprentice in Nithsdale, walked all the way to Edinburgh for
the sole purpose of seeing Sir Walter Scott as he passed along the street. We unconsciously
admire the enthusiasm of the lad, and respect the impulse which impelled him to make the journey.
It is related of Sir Joshua Reynolds, that when a boy of ten, he thrust his hand through intervening
rows of people to touch Pope, as if there were a sort of virtue in the contact. At a much later
period, the painter Haydon was proud to see and to touch Reynolds when on a visit to his native
place. Rogers the poet used to tell of his ardent desire, when a boy, to see Dr. Johnson; but
when his hand was on the knocker of the house in Bolt Court, his courage failed him, and he
turned away. So the late Isaac Disraeli, when a youth, called at Bolt Court for the same purpose;
and though he HAD the courage to knock, to his dismay he was informed by the servant that the
great lexicographer had breathed his last only a few hours before.

On the contrary, small and ungenerous minds cannot admire heartily. To their own great misfortune,
they cannot recognise, much less reverence, great men and great things. The mean nature admires
meanly. The toad's highest idea of beauty is his toadess. The small snob's highest idea of
manhood is the great snob. The slave-dealer values a man according to his muscles. When a Guinea
trader was told by Sir Godfrey Kneller, in the presence of Pope, that he saw before him two
of the greatest men in the world, he replied: "I don't know how great you may be, but I don't
like your looks. I have often bought a man much better than both of you together, all bones
and muscles, for ten guineas!"

Although Rochefoucauld, in one of his maxims, says that there is something that is not altogether
disagreeable to us in the misfortunes of even our best friends, it is only the small and essentially
mean nature that finds pleasure in the disappointment, and annoyance at the success of others.
There are, unhappily, for themselves, persons so constituted that they have not the heart to
be generous. The most disagreeable of all people are those who "sit in the seat of the scorner."
Persons of this sort often come to regard the success of others, even in a good work, as a
kind of personal offence. They cannot bear to hear another praised, especially if he belong
to their own art, or calling, or profession. They will pardon a man's failures, but cannot
forgive his doing a thing better than they can do. And where they have themselves failed, they
are found to be the most merciless of detractors. The sour critic thinks of his rival:

    "When Heaven with such parts has blest him,
    Have I not reason to detest him?"

The mean mind occupies itself with sneering, carping, and fault-finding; and is ready to scoff
at everything but impudent effrontery or successful vice. The greatest consolation of such
persons are the defects of men of character. "If the wise erred not," says George Herbert,
"it would go hard with fools." Yet, though wise men may learn of fools by avoiding their errors,
fools rarely profit by the example which, wise men set them. A German writer has said that
it is a miserable temper that cares only to discover the blemishes in the character of great
men or great periods. Let us rather judge them with the charity of Bolingbroke, who, when reminded
of one of the alleged weaknesses of Marlborough, observed,--"He was so great a man that I forgot
he had that defect."

Admiration of great men, living or dead, naturally evokes imitation of them in a greater or
less degree. While a mere youth, the mind of Themistocles was fired by the great deeds of his
contemporaries, and he longed to distinguish himself in the service of his country. When the
Battle of Marathon had been fought, he fell into a state of melancholy; and when asked by his
friends as to the cause, he replied "that the trophies of Miltiades would not suffer him to
sleep." A few years later, we find him at the head of the Athenian army, defeating the Persian
fleet of Xerxes in the battles of Artemisium and Salamis,--his country gratefully acknowledging
that it had been saved through his wisdom and valour.

It is related of Thucydides that, when a boy, he burst into tears on hearing Herodotus read
his History, and the impression made upon his mind was such as to determine the bent of his
own genius. And Demosthenes was so fired on one occasion by the eloquence of Callistratus,
that the ambition was roused within him of becoming an orator himself. Yet Demosthenes was
physically weak, had a feeble voice, indistinct articulation, and shortness of breath--defects
which he was only enabled to overcome by diligent study and invincible determination. But,
with all his practice, he never became a ready speaker; all his orations, especially the most
famous of them, exhibiting indications of careful elaboration,--the art and industry of the
orator being visible in almost every sentence.

Similar illustrations of character imitating character, and moulding itself by the style and
manner and genius of great men, are to be found pervading all history. Warriors, statesmen,
orators, patriots, poets, and artists--all have been, more or less unconsciously, nurtured
by the lives and actions of others living before them or presented for their imitation. Leo
X. threatened with excommunication whoever should print and sell the poems of Ariosto without
the author's consent. The same pope attended the deathbed of Raphael, as Francis I. did that
of Leonardo da Vinci.

Though Haydn once archly observed that he was loved and esteemed by everybody except professors
of music, yet all the greatest musicians were unusually ready to recognise each other's greatness.
Haydn himself seems to have been entirely free from petty jealousy. His admiration of the famous
Porpora was such, that he resolved to gain admission to his house, and serve him as a valet.
Having made the acquaintance of the family with whom Porpora lived, he was allowed to officiate
in that capacity. Early each morning he took care to brush the veteran's coat, polish his shoes,
and put his rusty wig in order. At first Porpora growled at the intruder, but his asperity
soon softened, and eventually melted into affection. He quickly discovered his valet's genius,
and, by his instructions, directed it into the line in which Haydn eventually acquired so much
distinction.

Haydn himself was enthusiastic in his admiration of Handel. "He is the father of us all," he
said on one occasion. Scarlatti followed Handel in admiration all over Italy, and, when his
name was mentioned, he crossed himself in token of veneration. Mozart's recognition of the
great composer was not less hearty. "When he chooses," said he, "Handel strikes like the thunderbolt."
Beethoven hailed him as "The monarch of the musical kingdom." When Beethoven was dying, one
of his friends sent him a present of Handel's works, in forty volumes. They were brought into
his chamber, and, gazing on them with reanimated eye, he exclaimed, pointing at them with his
finger, "There--there is the truth!"

Haydn not only recognised the genius of the great men who had passed away, but of his young
contemporaries, Mozart and Beethoven. Small men may be envious of their fellows, but really
great men seek out and love each other. Of Mozart, Haydn wrote "I only wish I could impress
on every friend of music, and on great men in particular, the same depth of musical sympathy,
and profound appreciation of Mozart's inimitable music, that I myself feel and enjoy; then
nations would vie with each other to possess such a jewel within their frontiers. Prague ought
not only to strive to retain this precious man, but also to remunerate him; for without this
the history of a great genius is sad indeed.... It enrages me to think that the unparalleled
Mozart is not yet engaged by some imperial or royal court. Forgive my excitement; but I love
the man so dearly!"

Mozart was equally generous in his recognition of the merits of Haydn. "Sir," said he to a
critic, speaking of the latter, "if you and I were both melted down together, we should not
furnish materials for one Haydn." And when Mozart first heard Beethoven, he observed: "Listen
to that young man; be assured that he will yet make a great name in the world."

Buffon set Newton above all other philosophers, and admired him so highly that he had always
his portrait before him while he sat at work. So Schiller looked up to Shakspeare, whom he
studied reverently and zealously for years, until he became capable of comprehending nature
at first-hand, and then his admiration became even more ardent than before.

Pitt was Canning's master and hero, whom he followed and admired with attachment and devotion.
"To one man, while he lived," said Canning, "I was devoted with all my heart and all my soul.
Since the death of Mr. Pitt I acknowledge no leader; my political allegiance lies buried in
his grave." [1211]

A French physiologist, M. Roux, was occupied one day in lecturing to his pupils, when Sir Charles
Bell, whose discoveries were even better known and more highly appreciated abroad than at home,
strolled into his class-room. The professor, recognising his visitor, at once stopped his exposition,
saying: "MESSIEURS, C'EST ASSEZ POUR AUJOURD'HUI, VOUS AVEZ VU SIR CHARLES BELL!"

The first acquaintance with a great work of art has usually proved an important event in every
young artist's life. When Correggio first gazed on Raphael's 'Saint Cecilia,' he felt within
himself an awakened power, and exclaimed, "And I too am a painter" So Constable used to look
back on his first sight of Claude's picture of 'Hagar,' as forming an epoch in his career.
Sir George Beaumont's admiration of the same picture was such that he always took it with him
in his carriage when he travelled from home.

The examples set by the great and good do not die; they continue to live and speak to all the
generations that succeed them. It was very impressively observed by Mr. Disraeli, in the House
of Commons, shortly after the death of Mr. Cobden:--"There is this consolation remaining to
us, when we remember our unequalled and irreparable losses, that those great men are not altogether
lost to us--that their words will often be quoted in this House--that their examples will often
be referred to and appealed to, and that even their expressions will form part of our discussions
and debates. I think that Mr. Cobden was one of those men."

It is the great lesson of biography to teach what man can be and can do at his best. It may
thus give each man renewed strength and confidence. The humblest, in sight of even the greatest,
may admire, and hope, and take courage. These great brothers of ours in blood and lineage,
who live a universal life, still speak to us from their graves, and beckon us on in the paths
which they have trod. Their example is still with us, to guide, to influence, and to direct
us. For nobility of character is a perpetual bequest; living from age to age, and constantly
tending to reproduce its like.

"The sage," say the Chinese, "is the instructor of a hundred ages. When the manners of Loo
are heard of, the stupid become intelligent, and the wavering determined." Thus the acted life
of a good man continues to be a gospel of freedom and emancipation to all who succeed him:

          "To live in hearts we leave behind,
          is not to die."

The golden words that good men have uttered, the examples they have set, live through all time:
they pass into the thoughts and hearts of their successors, help them on the road of life,
and often console them in the hour of death. "And the most miserable or most painful of deaths,"
said Henry Marten, the Commonwealth man, who died in prison, "is as nothing compared with the
memory of a well-spent life; and great alone is he who has earned the glorious privilege of
bequeathing such a lesson and example to his successors!"

CHAPTER IV.--WORK.

     "Arise therefore, and be doing, and the Lord be with thee."
     --l CHRONICLES xxii. 16.

        "Work as if thou hadst to live for aye;
        Worship as if thou wert to die to-day."--TUSCAN PROVERB.

          "C'est par le travail qu'on regne."--LOUIS XIV

       "Blest work! if ever thou wert curse of God,
        What must His blessing be!"--J. B. SELKIRK.

     "Let every man be OCCUPIED, and occupied in the highest
     employment of which his nature is capable, and die with the
     consciousness that he has done his best"--Sydney Smith.

WORK is one of the best educators of practical character. It evokes and disciplines obedience,
self-control, attention, application, and perseverance; giving a man deftness and skill in
his special calling, and aptitude and dexterity in dealing with the affairs of ordinary life.

Work is the law of our being--the living principle that carries men and nations onward. The
greater number of men have to work with their hands, as a matter of necessity, in order to
live; but all must work in one way or another, if they would enjoy life as it ought to be enjoyed.

Labour may be a burden and a chastisement, but it is also an honour and a glory. Without it,
nothing can be accomplished. All that is great in man comes through work; and civilisation
is its product. Were labour abolished, the race of Adam were at once stricken by moral death.

It is idleness that is the curse of man--not labour. Idleness eats the heart out of men as
of nations, and consumes them as rust does iron. When Alexander conquered the Persians, and
had an opportunity of observing their manners, he remarked that they did not seem conscious
that there could be anything more servile than a life of pleasure, or more princely than a
life of toil.

When the Emperor Severus lay on his deathbed at York, whither he had been borne on a litter
from the foot of the Grampians, his final watchword to his soldiers was, "LABOREMUS" [we must
work]; and nothing but constant toil maintained the power and extended the authority of the
Roman generals.

In describing the earlier social condition of Italy, when the ordinary occupations of rural
life were considered compatible with the highest civic dignity, Pliny speaks of the triumphant
generals and their men, returning contentedly to the plough. In those days the lands were tilled
by the hands even of generals, the soil exulting beneath a ploughshare crowned with laurels,
and guided by a husbandman graced with triumphs: "IPSORUM TUNC MANIBUS IMPERATORUM COLEBANTUR
AGRI: UT FAS EST CREDERE, GAUDENTE TERRA VOMERE LAUREATO ET TRIUMPHALI ARATORE." [131] It was
only after slaves became extensively employed in all departments of industry that labour came
to be regarded as dishonourable and servile. And so soon as indolence and luxury became the
characteristics of the ruling classes of Rome, the downfall of the empire, sooner or later,
was inevitable.

There is, perhaps, no tendency of our nature that has to be more carefully guarded against
than indolence. When Mr. Gurney asked an intelligent foreigner who had travelled over the greater
part of the world, whether he had observed any one quality which, more than another, could
be regarded as a universal characteristic of our species, his answer was, in broken English,
"Me tink dat all men LOVE LAZY." It is characteristic of the savage as of the despot. It is
natural to men to endeavour to enjoy the products of labour without its toils. Indeed, so universal
is this desire, that James Mill has argued that it was to prevent its indulgence at the expense
of society at large, that the expedient of Government was originally invented. [132]

Indolence is equally degrading to individuals as to nations. Sloth never made its mark in the
world, and never will. Sloth never climbed a hill, nor overcame a difficulty that it could
avoid. Indolence always failed in life, and always will. It is in the nature of things that
it should not succeed in anything. It is a burden, an incumbrance, and a nuisance--always useless,
complaining, melancholy, and miserable.

Burton, in his quaint and curious, book--the only one, Johnson says, that ever took him out
of bed two hours sooner than he wished to rise--describes the causes of Melancholy as hingeing
mainly on Idleness. [134]

The indolent, however, are not wholly indolent. Though the body may shirk labour, the brain
is not idle. If it do not grow corn, it will grow thistles, which will be found springing up
all along the idle man's course in life. The ghosts of indolence rise up in the dark, ever
staring the recreant in the face, and tormenting him:

      "The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices,
       Make instrument to scourge us."

True happiness is never found in torpor of the faculties, [135] but in their action and useful
employment. It is indolence that exhausts, not action, in which there is life, health, and
pleasure. The spirits may be exhausted and wearied by employment, but they are utterly wasted
by idleness. Hense a wise physician was accustomed to regard occupation as one of his most
valuable remedial measures. "Nothing is so injurious," said Dr. Marshall Hall, "as unoccupied
time." An archbishop of Mayence used to say that "the human heart is like a millstone: if you
put wheat under it, it grinds the wheat into flour; if you put no wheat, it grinds on, but
then 'tis itself it wears away."

Indolence is usually full of excuses; and the sluggard, though unwilling to work, is often
an active sophist. "There is a lion in the path;" or "The hill is hard to climb;" or "There
is no use trying--I have tried, and failed, and cannot do it." To the sophistries of such an
excuser, Sir Samuel Romilly once wrote to a young man:--"My attack upon your indolence, loss
of time, &c., was most serious, and I really think that it can be to nothing but your habitual
want of exertion that can be ascribed your using such curious arguments as you do in your defence.
Your theory is this: Every man does all the good that he can. If a particular individual does
no good, it is a proof that he is incapable of doing it. That you don't write proves that you
can't; and your want of inclination demonstrates your want of talents. What an admirable system!--and
what beneficial effects would it be attended with, if it were but universally received!" [136]

There must be work before and work behind, with leisure to fall back upon; but the leisure,
without the work, can no more be enjoyed than a surfeit. Life must needs be disgusting alike
to the idle rich man as to the idle poor man, who has no work to do, or, having work, will
not do it. The words found tattooed on the right arm of a sentimental beggar of forty, undergoing
his eighth imprisonment in the gaol of Bourges in France, might be adopted as the motto of
all idlers: "LE PASSE M'A TROMPE; LE PRESENT ME TOURMENTE; L'AVENIR M'EPOUVANTE;"--[13The past
has deceived me; the present torments me; the future terrifies me]

The duty of industry applies to all classes and conditions of society. All have their work
to do in the irrespective conditions of life--the rich as well as the poor. [137] The gentleman
by birth and education, however richly he may be endowed with worldly possessions, cannot but
feel that he is in duty bound to contribute his quota of endeavour towards the general wellbeing
in which he shares. He cannot be satisfied with being fed, clad, and maintained by the labour
of others, without making some suitable return to the society that upholds him. An honest highminded
man would revolt at the idea of sitting down to and enjoying a feast, and then going away without
paying his share of the reckoning. To be idle and useless is neither an honour nor a privilege;
and though persons of small natures may be content merely to consume--FRUGES CONSUMERE NATI--men
of average endowment, of manly aspirations, and of honest purpose, will feel such a condition
to be incompatible with real honour and true dignity. The experiment has, often been tried,
and always with one result. You cannot escape from anxiety and labour--it is the destiny of
humanity.... Those who shirk from facing trouble, find that trouble comes to them. The indolent
may contrive that he shall have less than his share of the world's work to do, but Nature proportioning
the instinct to the work, contrives that the little shall be much and hard to him. The man
who has only himself to please finds, sooner or later, and probably sooner than later, that
he has got a very hard master; and the excessive weakness which shrinks from responsibility
has its own punishment too, for where great interests are excluded little matters become great,
and the same wear and tear of mind that might have been at least usefully and healthfully expended
on the real business of life is often wasted in petty and imaginary vexations, such as breed
and multiply in the unoccupied brain." [138]

Even on the lowest ground--that of personal enjoyment--constant useful occupation is necessary.
He who labours not, cannot enjoy the reward of labour. "We sleep sound," said Sir Walter Scott,
"and our waking hours are happy, when they are employed; and a little sense of toil is necessary
to the enjoyment of leisure, even when earned by study and sanctioned by the discharge of duty."

It is true, there are men who die of overwork; but many more die of selfishness, indulgence,
and idleness. Where men break down by overwork, it is most commonly from want of duly ordering
their lives, and neglect of the ordinary conditions of physical health. Lord Stanley was probably
right when he said, in his address to the Glasgow students above mentioned, that he doubted
whether "hard work, steadily and regularly carried on, ever yet hurt anybody."

Then, again, length of YEARS is no proper test of length of LIFE. A man's life is to be measured
by what he does in it, and what he feels in it. The more useful work the man does, and the
more he thinks and feels, the more he really lives. The idle useless man, no matter to what
extent his life may be prolonged, merely vegetates.

The early teachers of Christianity ennobled the lot of toil by their example. [139]

It was characteristic of Napoleon, when visiting a work of mechanical excellence, to pay great
respect to the inventor, and on taking his leave, to salute him with a low bow. Once at St.
Helena, when walking with Mrs. Balcombe, some servants came along carrying a load. The lady,
in an angry tone, ordered them out of the way, on which Napoleon interposed, saying, "Respect
the burden, madam." Even the drudgery of the humblest labourer contributes towards the general
wellbeing of society; and it was a wise saying of a Chinese Emperor, that "if there was a man
who did not work, or a woman that was idle, somebody must suffer cold or hunger in the empire."

The habit of constant useful occupation is as essential for the happiness and wellbeing of
woman as of man. Without it, women are apt to sink into a state of listless ENNUI and uselessness,
accompanied by sick headache and attacks of "nerves." Caroline Perthes carefully warned her
married daughter Louisa to beware of giving way to such listlessness. "I myself," she said,
"when the children are gone out for a half-holiday, sometimes feel as stupid and dull as an
owl by daylight; but one must not yield to this, which happens more or less to all young wives.
The best relief is WORK, engaged in with interest and diligence. Work, then, constantly and
diligently, at something or other; for idleness is the devil's snare for small and great, as
your grandfather says, and he says true." [1310]

Constant useful occupation is thus wholesome, not only for the body, but for the mind. While
the slothful man drags himself indolently through life, and the better part of his nature sleeps
a deep sleep, if not morally and spiritually dead, the energetic man is a source of activity
and enjoyment to all who come within reach of his influence. Even any ordinary drudgery is
better than idleness. Fuller says of Sir Francis Drake, who was early sent to sea, and kept
close to his work by his master, that such "pains and patience in his youth knit the joints
of his soul, and made them more solid and compact." Schiller used to say that he considered
it a great advantage to be employed in the discharge of some daily mechanical duty--some regular
routine of work, that rendered steady application necessary.

Thousands can bear testimony to the truth of the saying of Greuze, the French painter, that
work--employment, useful occupation--is one of the great secrets of happiness. Casaubon was
once induced by the entreaties of his friends to take a few days entire rest, but he returned
to his work with the remark, that it was easier to bear illness doing something, than doing
nothing.

When Charles Lamb was released for life from his daily drudgery of desk-work at the India Office,
he felt himself the happiest of men. "I would not go back to my prison," he said to a friend,
"ten years longer, for ten thousand pounds." He also wrote in the same ecstatic mood to Bernard
Barton: "I have scarce steadiness of head to compose a letter," he said; "I am free! free as
air! I will live another fifty years.... Would I could sell you some of my leisure! Positively
the best thing a man can do is--Nothing; and next to that, perhaps, Good Works." Two years--two
long and tedious years passed; and Charles Lamb's feelings had undergone an entire change.
He now discovered that official, even humdrum work--"the appointed round, the daily task"--had
been good for him, though he knew it not. Time had formerly been his friend; it had now become
his enemy. To Bernard Barton he again wrote: "I assure you, NO work is worse than overwork;
the mind preys on itself--the most unwholesome of food. I have ceased to care for almost anything....
Never did the waters of heaven pour down upon a forlorner head. What I can do, and overdo,
is to walk. I am a sanguinary murderer of time. But the oracle is silent."

No man could be more sensible of the practical importance of industry than Sir Walter Scott,
who was himself one of the most laborious and indefatigable of men. Indeed, Lockhart says of
him that, taking all ages and countries together, the rare example of indefatigable energy,
in union with serene self-possession of mind and manner, such as Scott's, must be sought for
in the roll of great sovereigns or great captains, rather than in that of literary genius.
Scott himself was most anxious to impress upon the minds of his own children the importance
of industry as a means of usefulness and happiness in the world. To his son Charles, when at
school, he wrote:--"I cannot too much impress upon your mind that LABOUR is the condition which
God has imposed on us in every station of life; there is nothing worth having that can be had
without it, from the bread which the peasant wins with the sweat of his brow, to the sports
by which the rich man must get rid of his ENNUI.... As for knowledge, it can no more be planted
in the human mind without labour than a field of wheat can be produced without the previous
use of the plough. There is, indeed, this great difference, that chance or circumstances may
so cause it that another shall reap what the farmer sows; but no man can be deprived, whether
by accident or misfortune, of the fruits of his own studies; and the liberal and extended acquisitions
of knowledge which he makes are all for his own use. Labour, therefore, my dear boy, and improve
the time. In youth our steps are light, and our minds are ductile, and knowledge is easily
laid up; but if we neglect our spring, our summers will be useless and contemptible, our harvest
will be chaff, and the winter of our old age unrespected and desolate." [1311]

Southey was as laborious a worker as Scott. Indeed, work might almost be said to form part
of his religion. He was only nineteen when he wrote these words:--"Nineteen years! certainly
a fourth part of my life; perhaps how great a part! and yet I have been of no service to society.
The clown who scares crows for twopence a day is a more useful man; he preserves the bread
which I eat in idleness." And yet Southey had not been idle as a boy--on the contrary, he had
been a most diligent student. He had not only read largely in English literature, but was well
acquainted, through translations, with Tasso, Ariosto, Homer, and Ovid. He felt, however, as
if his life had been purposeless, and he determined to do something. He began, and from that
time forward he pursued an unremitting career of literary labour down to the close of his life--"daily
progressing in learning," to use his own words--"not so learned as he is poor, not so poor
as proud, not so proud as happy."

The maxims of men often reveal their character. [1312] That of Sir Walter Scott was, "Never
to be doing nothing." Robertson the historian, as early as his fifteenth year, adopted the
maxim of "VITA SINE LITERIS MORS EST" [13Life without learning is death]. Voltaire's motto
was, "TOUJOURS AU TRAVAIL" [13Always at work]. The favourite maxim of Lacepede, the naturalist,
was, "VIVRE C'EST VEILLER" [13To live is to observe]: it was also the maxim of Pliny. When
Bossuet was at college, he was so distinguished by his ardour in study, that his fellow students,
playing upon his name, designated him as "BOS-SUETUS ARATRO" [13The ox used to the plough].
The name of VITA-LIS [13Life a struggle], which the Swedish poet Sjoberg assumed, as Frederik
von Hardenberg assumed that of NOVA-LIS, described the aspirations and the labours of both
these men of genius.

We have spoken of work as a discipline: it is also an educator of character. Even work that
produces no results, because it IS work, is better than torpor,--inasmuch as it educates faculty,
and is thus preparatory to successful work. The habit of working teaches method. It compels
economy of time, and the disposition of it with judicious forethought. And when the art of
packing life with useful occupations is once acquired by practice, every minute will be turned
to account; and leisure, when it comes, will be enjoyed with all the greater zest. [1313]

It is because application to business teaches method most effectually, that it is so useful
as an educator of character. The highest working qualities are best trained by active and sympathetic
contact with others in the affairs of daily life. It does not matter whether the business relate
to the management of a household or of a nation. Indeed, as we have endeavoured to show in
a preceding chapter, the able housewife must necessarily be an efficient woman of business.
She must regulate and control the details of her home, keep her expenditure within her means,
arrange everything according to plan and system, and wisely manage and govern those subject
to her rule. Efficient domestic management implies industry, application, method, moral discipline,
forethought, prudence, practical ability, insight into character, and power of organization--all
of which are required in the efficient management of business of whatever sort.

Business qualities have, indeed, a very large field of action. They mean aptitude for affairs,
competency to deal successfully with the practical work of life--whether the spur of action
lie in domestic management, in the conduct of a profession, in trade or commerce, in social
organization, or in political government. And the training which gives efficiency in dealing
with these various affairs is of all others the most useful in practical life. [1314] Moreover,
it is the best discipline of character; for it involves the exercise of diligence, attention,
self-denial, judgment, tact, knowledge of and sympathy with others.

Such a discipline is far more productive of happiness as well as useful efficiency in life,
than any amount of literary culture or meditative seclusion; for in the long run it will usually
be found that practical ability carries it over intellect, and temper and habits over talent.
It must, however, he added that this is a kind of culture that can only be acquired by diligent
observation and carefully improved experience. "To be a good blacksmith," said General Trochu
in a recent publication, "one must have forged all his life: to be a good administrator one
should have passed his whole life in the study and practice of business."

It was characteristic of Sir Walter Scott to entertain the highest respect for able men of
business; and he professed that he did not consider any amount of literary distinction as entitled
to be spoken of in the same breath with a mastery in the higher departments of practical life--least
of all with a first-rate captain.

The great commander leaves nothing to chance, but provides for every contingency. He condescends
to apparently trivial details. Thus, when Wellington was at the head of his army in Spain,
he directed the precise manner in which the soldiers were to cook their provisions. When in
India, he specified the exact speed at which the bullocks were to be driven; every detail in
equipment was carefully arranged beforehand. And thus not only was efficiency secured, but
the devotion of his men, and their boundless confidence in his command. [1315]

Like other great captains, Wellington had an almost boundless capacity for work. He drew up
the heads of a Dublin Police Bill [13being still the Secretary for Ireland], when tossing off
the mouth of the Mondego, with Junot and the French army waiting for him on the shore. So Caesar,
another of the greatest commanders, is said to have written an essay on Latin Rhetoric while
crossing the Alps at the head of his army. And Wallenstein when at the head of 60,000 men,
and in the midst of a campaign with the enemy before him, dictated from headquarters the medical
treatment of his poultry-yard.

The idea has been entertained by some, that business habits are incompatible with genius. In
the Life of Richard Lovell Edgeworth, [1316] it is observed of a Mr. Bicknell--a respectable
but ordinary man, of whom little is known but that he married Sabrina Sidney, the ELEVE of
Thomas Day, author of 'Sandford and Merton'--that "he had some of the too usual faults of a
man of genius: he detested the drudgery of business." But there cannot be a greater mistake.
The greatest geniuses have, without exception, been the greatest workers, even to the extent
of drudgery. They have not only worked harder than ordinary men, but brought to their work
higher faculties and a more ardent spirit. Nothing great and durable was ever improvised. It
is only by noble patience and noble labour that the masterpieces of genius have been achieved.

Power belongs only to the workers; the idlers are always powerless. It is the laborious and
painstaking men who are the rulers of the world. There has not been a statesman of eminence
but was a man of industry. "It is by toil," said even Louis XIV., "that kings govern." While
in the midst of his laborious though self-imposed duties, Hampden, on one occasion, wrote to
his mother: "My lyfe is nothing but toyle, and hath been for many yeares, nowe to the Commonwealth,
nowe to the Kinge.... Not so much tyme left as to doe my dutye to my deare parents, nor to
sende to them." Indeed, all the statesmen of the Commonwealth were great toilers; and Clarendon
himself, whether in office or out of it, was a man of indefatigable application and industry.

The same energetic vitality, as displayed in the power of working, has distinguished all the
eminent men in our own as well as in past times. During the Anti-Corn Law movement, Cobden,
writing to a friend, described himself as "working like a horse, with not a moment to spare."
Lord Brougham was a remarkable instance of the indefatigably active and laborious man; and
it might be said of Lord Palmerston, that he worked harder for success in his extreme old age
than he had ever done in the prime of his manhood--preserving his working faculty, his good-humour
and BONHOMMIE, unimpaired to the end. [1317] He himself was accustomed to say, that being in
office, and consequently full of work, was good for his health. It rescued him from ENNUI.
Helvetius even held, that it is man's sense of ENNUI that is the chief cause of his superiority
over the brute,--that it is the necessity which he feels for escaping from its intolerable
suffering that forces him to employ himself actively, and is hence the great stimulus to human
progress.

Indeed, this living principle of constant work, of abundant occupation, of practical contact
with men in the affairs of life, has in all times been the best ripener of the energetic vitality
of strong natures. Business habits, cultivated and disciplined, are found alike useful in every
pursuit--whether in politics, literature, science, or art. Thus, a great deal of the best literary
work has been done by men systematically trained in business pursuits. The same industry, application,
economy of time and labour, which have rendered them useful in the one sphere of employment,
have been found equally available in the other.

Most of the early English writers were men of affairs, trained to business; for no literary
class as yet existed, excepting it might be the priesthood. Chaucer, the father of English
poetry, was first a soldier, and afterwards a comptroller of petty customs. The office was
no sinecure either, for he had to write up all the records with his own hand; and when he had
done his "reckonings" at the custom-house, he returned with delight to his favourite studies
at home--poring over his books until his eyes were "dazed" and dull.

The great writers in the reign of Elizabeth, during which there was such a development of robust
life in England, were not literary men according to the modern acceptation of the word, but
men of action trained in business. Spenser acted as secretary to the Lord Deputy of Ireland;
Raleigh was, by turns, a courtier, soldier, sailor, and discoverer; Sydney was a politician,
diplomatist, and soldier; Bacon was a laborious lawyer before he became Lord Keeper and Lord
Chancellor; Sir Thomas Browne was a physician in country practice at Norwich; Hooker was the
hardworking pastor of a country parish; Shakspeare was the manager of a theatre, in which he
was himself but an indifferent actor, and he seems to have been even more careful of his money
investments than he was of his intellectual offspring. Yet these, all men of active business
habits, are among the greatest writers of any age: the period of Elizabeth and James I. standing
out in the history of England as the era of its greatest literary activity and splendour.

In the reign of Charles I., Cowley held various offices of trust and confidence. He acted as
private secretary to several of the royalist leaders, and was afterwards engaged as private
secretary to the Queen, in ciphering and deciphering the correspondence which passed between
her and Charles I.; the work occupying all his days, and often his nights, during several years.
And while Cowley was thus employed in the royal cause, Milton was employed by the Commonwealth,
of which he was the Latin secretary, and afterwards secretary to the Lord Protector. Yet, in
the earlier part of his life, Milton was occupied in the humble vocation of a teacher. Dr.
Johnson says, "that in his school, as in everything else which he undertook, he laboured with
great diligence, there is no reason for doubting" It was after the Restoration, when his official
employment ceased, that Milton entered upon the principal literary work of his life; but before
he undertook the writing of his great epic, he deemed it indispensable that to "industrious
and select reading" he should add "steady observation" and "insight into all seemly and generous
arts and affairs." [1318]

Locke held office in different reigns: first under Charles II. as Secretary to the Board of
Trade and afterwards under William III. as Commissioner of Appeals and of Trade and Plantations.
Many literary men of eminence held office in Queen Anne's reign.

Indeed, habits of business, instead of unfitting a cultivated mind for scientific or literary
pursuits, are often the best training for them. Voltaire insisted with truth that the real
spirit of business and literature are the same; the perfection of each being the union of energy
and thoughtfulness, of cultivated intelligence and practical wisdom, of the active and contemplative
essence--a union commended by Lord Bacon as the concentrated excellence of man's nature. It
has been said that even the man of genius can write nothing worth reading in relation to human
affairs, unless he has been in some way or other connected with the serious everyday business
of life.

Hence it has happened that many of the best books, extant have been written by men of business,
with whom literature was a pastime rather than a profession. Gifford, the editor of the 'Quarterly,'
who knew the drudgery of writing for a living, once observed that "a single hour of composition,
won from the business of the day, is worth more than the whole day's toil of him who works
at the trade of literature: in the one case, the spirit comes joyfully to refresh itself, like
a hart to the waterbrooks; in the other, it pursues its miserable way, panting and jaded, with
the dogs and hunger of necessity behind." [1319]

The first great men of letters in Italy were not mere men of letters; they were men of business--merchants,
statesmen, diplomatists, judges, and soldiers. Villani, the author of the best History of Florence,
was a merchant; Dante, Petrarch, and Boccacio, were all engaged in more or less important embassies;
and Dante, before becoming a diplomatist, was for some time occupied as a chemist and druggist.
Galileo, Galvani, and Farini were physicians, and Goldoni a lawyer. Ariosto's talent for affairs
was as great as his genius for poetry. At the death of his father, he was called upon to manage
the family estate for the benefit of his younger brothers and sisters, which he did with ability
and integrity. His genius for business having been recognised, he was employed by the Duke
of Ferrara on important missions to Rome and elsewhere. Having afterwards been appointed governor
of a turbulent mountain district, he succeeded, by firm and just governments in reducing it
to a condition of comparative good order and security. Even the bandits of the country respected
him. Being arrested one day in the mountains by a body of outlaws, he mentioned his name, when
they at once offered to escort him in safety wherever he chose.

It has been the same in other countries. Vattel, the author of the 'Rights of Nations,' was
a practical diplomatist, and a first-rate man of business. Rabelais was a physician, and a
successful practitioner; Schiller was a surgeon; Cervantes, Lope de Vega, Calderon, Camoens,
Descartes, Maupertius, La Rochefoucauld, Lacepede, Lamark, were soldiers in the early part
of their respective lives.

In our own country, many men now known by their writings, earned their living by their trade.
Lillo spent the greater part of his life as a working jeweller in the Poultry; occupying the
intervals of his leisure in the production of dramatic works, some of them of acknowledged
power and merit. Izaak Walton was a linendraper in Fleet Street, reading much in his leisure
hours, and storing his mind with facts for future use in his capacity of biographer. De Foe
was by turns horse-factor, brick and tile maker, shopkeeper, author, and political agent.

Samuel Richardson successfully combined literature, with business; writing his novels in his
back-shop in Salisbury Court, Fleet Street, and selling them over the counter in his front-shop.
William Hutton, of Birmingham, also successfully combined the occupations of bookselling and
authorship. He says, in his Autobiography, that a man may live half a century and not be acquainted
with his own character. He did not know that he was an antiquary until the world informed him
of it, from having read his 'History of Birmingham,' and then, he said, he could see it himself.
Benjamin Franklin was alike eminent as a printer and bookseller--an author, a philosopher and
a statesman.

Coming down to our own time, we find Ebenezer Elliott successfully carrying on the business
of a bar-iron merchant in Sheffield, during which time he wrote and published the greater number
of his poems; and his success in business was such as to enable him to retire into the country
and build a house of his own, in which he spent the remainder of his days. Isaac Taylor, the
author of the 'Natural History of Enthusiasm,' was an engraver of patterns for Manchester calico-printers;
and other members of this gifted family were followers of the same branch of art.

The principal early works of John Stuart Mill were written in the intervals of official work,
while he held the office of principal examiner in the East India House,--in which Charles Lamb,
Peacock the author of 'Headlong Hall,' and Edwin Norris the philologist, were also clerks.
Macaulay wrote his 'Lays of Ancient Rome' in the War Office, while holding the post of Secretary
of War. It is well known that the thoughtful writings of Mr. Helps are literally "Essays written
in the Intervals of Business." Many of our best living authors are men holding important public
offices--such as Sir Henry Taylor, Sir John Kaye, Anthony Trollope, Tom Taylor, Matthew Arnold,
and Samuel Warren.

Mr. Proctor the poet, better known as "Barry Cornwall," was a barrister and commissioner in
lunacy. Most probably he assumed the pseudonym for the same reason that Dr. Paris published
his 'Philosophy in Sport made Science in Earnest' anonymously--because he apprehended that,
if known, it might compromise his professional position. For it is by no means an uncommon
prejudice, still prevalent amongst City men, that a person who has written a book, and still
more one who has written a poem, is good for nothing in the way of business. Yet Sharon Turner,
though an excellent historian, was no worse a solicitor on that account; while the brothers
Horace and James Smith, authors of 'The Rejected Addresses,' were men of such eminence in their
profession, that they were selected to fill the important and lucrative post of solicitors
to the Admiralty, and they filled it admirably.

It was while the late Mr. Broderip, the barrister, was acting as a London police magistrate,
that he was attracted to the study of natural history, in which he occupied the greater part
of his leisure. He wrote the principal articles on the subject for the 'Penny Cyclopaedia,'
besides several separate works of great merit, more particularly the 'Zoological Recreations,'
and 'Leaves from the Notebook of a Naturalist.' It is recorded of him that, though he devoted
so much of his time to the production of his works, as well as to the Zoological Society and
their admirable establishment in Regent's Park, of which he was one of the founders, his studies
never interfered with the real business of his life, nor is it known that a single question
was ever raised upon his conduct or his decisions. And while Mr. Broderip devoted himself to
natural history, the late Lord Chief Baron Pollock devoted his leisure to natural science,
recreating himself in the practice of photography and the study of mathematics, in both of
which he was thoroughly proficient.

Among literary bankers we find the names of Rogers, the poet; Roscoe, of Liverpool, the biographer
of Lorenzo de Medici; Ricardo, the author of 'Political Economy and Taxation; [1320] Grote,
the author of the 'History of Greece;' Sir John Lubbock, the scientific antiquarian; [1321]
and Samuel Bailey, of Sheffield, the author of 'Essays on the Formation and Publication of
Opinions,' besides various important works on ethics, political economy, and philosophy.

Nor, on the other hand, have thoroughly-trained men of science and learning proved themselves
inefficient as first-rate men of business. Culture of the best sort trains the habit of application
and industry, disciplines the mind, supplies it with resources, and gives it freedom and vigour
of action--all of which are equally requisite in the successful conduct of business. Thus,
in young men, education and scholarship usually indicate steadiness of character, for they
imply continuous attention, diligence, and the ability and energy necessary to master knowledge;
and such persons will also usually be found possessed of more than average promptitude, address,
resource, and dexterity.

Montaigne has said of true philosophers, that "if they were great in science, they were yet
much greater in action;... and whenever they have been put upon the proof, they have been seen
to fly to so high a pitch, as made it very well appear their souls were strangely elevated
and enriched with the knowledge of things." [1322]

At the same time, it must be acknowledged that too exclusive a devotion to imaginative and
philosophical literature, especially if prolonged in life until the habits become formed, does
to a great extent incapacitate a man for the business of practical life. Speculative ability
is one thing, and practical ability another; and the man who, in his study, or with his pen
in hand, shows himself capable of forming large views of life and policy, may, in the outer
world, be found altogether unfitted for carrying them into practical effect.

Speculative ability depends on vigorous thinking--practical ability on vigorous acting; and
the two qualities are usually found combined in very unequal proportions. The speculative man
is prone to indecision: he sees all the sides of a question, and his action becomes suspended
in nicely weighing the pros and cons, which are often found pretty nearly to balance each other;
whereas the practical man overleaps logical preliminaries, arrives at certain definite convictions,
and proceeds forthwith to carry his policy into action. [1323]

Yet there have been many great men of science who have proved efficient men of business. We
do not learn that Sir Isaac Newton made a worse Master of the Mint because he was the greatest
of philosophers. Nor were there any complaints as to the efficiency of Sir John Herschel, who
held the same office. The brothers Humboldt were alike capable men in all that they undertook--whether
it was literature, philosophy, mining, philology, diplomacy, or statesmanship.

Niebuhr, the historian, was distinguished for his energy and success as a man of business.
He proved so efficient as secretary and accountant to the African consulate, to which he had
been appointed by the Danish Government, that he was afterwards selected as one of the commissioners
to manage the national finances; and he quitted that office to undertake the joint directorship
of a bank at Berlin. It was in the midst of his business occupations that he found time to
study Roman history, to master the Arabic, Russian, and other Sclavonic languages, and to build
up the great reputation as an author by which he is now chiefly remembered.

Having regard to the views professed by the First Napoleon as to men of science, it was to
have been expected that he would endeavour to strengthen his administration by calling them
to his aid. Some of his appointments proved failures, while others were completely successful.
Thus Laplace was made Minister of the Interior; but he had no sooner been appointed than it
was seen that a mistake had been made. Napoleon afterwards said of him, that "Laplace looked
at no question in its true point of view. He was always searching after subtleties; all his
ideas were problems, and he carried the spirit of the infinitesimal calculus into the management
of business." But Laplace's habits had been formed in the study, and he was too old to adapt
them to the purposes of practical life.

With Darn it was different. But Darn had the advantage of some practical training in business,
having served as an intendant of the army in Switzerland under Massena, during which he also
distinguished himself as an author. When Napoleon proposed to appoint him a councillor of state
and intendant of the Imperial Household, Darn hesitated to accept the office. "I have passed
the greater part of my life," he said, "among books, and have not had time to learn the functions
of a courtier." "Of courtiers," replied Napoleon, "I have plenty about me; they will never
fail. But I want a minister, at once enlightened, firm, and vigilant; and it is for these qualities
that I have selected you." Darn complied with the Emperor's wishes, and eventually became his
Prime Minister, proving thoroughly efficient in that capacity, and remaining the same modest,
honourable, and disinterested man that he had ever been through life.

Men of trained working faculty so contract the habit of labour that idleness becomes intolerable
to them; and when driven by circumstances from their own special line of occupation, they find
refuge in other pursuits. The diligent man is quick to find employment for his leisure; and
he is able to make leisure when the idle man finds none. "He hath no leisure," says George
Herbert, "who useth it not." "The most active or busy man that hath been or can be," says Bacon,
"hath, no question, many vacant times of leisure, while he expecteth the tides and returns
of business, except he be either tedious and of no despatch, or lightly and unworthily ambitious
to meddle with things that may be better done by others." Thus many great things have been
done during such "vacant times of leisure," by men to whom industry had become a second nature,
and who found it easier to work than to be idle.

Even hobbies are useful as educators of the working faculty. Hobbies evoke industry of a certain
kind, and at least provide agreeable occupation. Not such hobbies as that of Domitian, who
occupied himself in catching flies. The hobbies of the King of Macedon who made lanthorns,
and of the King of France who made locks, were of a more respectable order. Even a routine
mechanical employment is felt to be a relief by minds acting under high-pressure: it is an
intermission of labour--a rest--a relaxation, the pleasure consisting in the work itself rather
than in the result.

But the best of hobbies are intellectual ones. Thus men of active mind retire from their daily
business to find recreation in other pursuits--some in science, some in art, and the greater
number in literature. Such recreations are among the best preservatives against selfishness
and vulgar worldliness. We believe it was Lord Brougham who said, "Blessed is the man that
hath a hobby!" and in the abundant versatility of his nature, he himself had many, ranging
from literature to optics, from history and biography to social science. Lord Brougham is even
said to have written a novel; and the remarkable story of the 'Man in the Bell,' which appeared
many years ago in 'Blackwood,' is reputed to have been from his pen. Intellectual hobbies,
however, must not be ridden too hard--else, instead of recreating, refreshing, and invigorating
a man's nature, they may only have the effect of sending him back to his business exhausted,
enervated, and depressed.

Many laborious statesmen besides Lord Brougham have occupied their leisure, or consoled themselves
in retirement from office, by the composition of works which have become part of the standard
literature of the world. Thus 'Caesar's Commentaries' still survive as a classic; the perspicuous
and forcible style in which they are written placing him in the same rank with Xenophon, who
also successfully combined the pursuit of letters with the business of active life.

When the great Sully was disgraced as a minister, and driven into retirement, he occupied his
leisure in writing out his 'Memoirs,' in anticipation of the judgment of posterity upon his
career as a statesman. Besides these, he also composed part of a romance after the manner of
the Scuderi school, the manuscript of which was found amongst his papers at his death.

Turgot found a solace for the loss of office, from which he had been driven by the intrigues
of his enemies, in the study of physical science. He also reverted to his early taste for classical
literature. During his long journeys, and at nights when tortured by the gout, he amused himself
by making Latin verses; though the only line of his that has been preserved was that intended
to designate the portrait of Benjamin Franklin:

      "Eripuit caelo fulmen, sceptrumque tyrannis."

Among more recent French statesmen--with whom, however, literature has been their profession
as much as politics--may be mentioned De Tocqueville, Thiers, Guizot, and Lamartine, while
Napoleon III. challenged a place in the Academy by his 'Life of Caesar.'

Literature has also been the chief solace of our greatest English statesmen. When Pitt retired
from office, like his great contemporary Fox, he reverted with delight to the study of the
Greek and Roman classics. Indeed, Grenville considered Pitt the best Greek scholar he had ever
known. Canning and Wellesley, when in retirement, occupied themselves in translating the odes
and satires of Horace. Canning's passion for literature entered into all his pursuits, and
gave a colour to his whole life. His biographer says of him, that after a dinner at Pitt's,
while the rest of the company were dispersed in conversation, he and Pitt would be observed
poring over some old Grecian in a corner of the drawing-room. Fox also was a diligent student
of the Greek authors, and, like Pitt, read Lycophron. He was also the author of a History of
James II., though the book is only a fragment, and, it must be confessed, is rather a disappointing
work.

One of the most able and laborious of our recent statesmen--with whom literature was a hobby
as well as a pursuit--was the late Sir George Cornewall Lewis. He was an excellent man of business--diligent,
exact, and painstaking. He filled by turns the offices of President of the Poor Law Board--the
machinery of which he created,--Chancellor of the Exchequer, Home Secretary, and Secretary
at War; and in each he achieved the reputation of a thoroughly successful administrator. In
the intervals of his official labours, he occupied himself with inquiries into a wide range
of subjects--history, politics, philology, anthropology, and antiquarianism. His works on 'The
Astronomy of the Ancients,' and 'Essays on the Formation of the Romanic Languages,' might have
been written by the profoundest of German SAVANS. He took especial delight in pursuing the
abstruser branches of learning, and found in them his chief pleasure and recreation. Lord Palmerston
sometimes remonstrated with him, telling him he was "taking too much out of himself" by laying
aside official papers after office-hours in order to study books; Palmerston himself declaring
that he had no time to read books--that the reading of manuscript was quite enough for him.

Doubtless Sir George Lewis rode his hobby too hard, and but for his devotion to study, his
useful life would probably have been prolonged. Whether in or out of office, he read, wrote,
and studied. He relinquished the editorship of the 'Edinburgh Review' to become Chancellor
of the Exchequer; and when no longer occupied in preparing budgets, he proceeded to copy out
a mass of Greek manuscripts at the British Museum. He took particular delight in pursuing any
difficult inquiry in classical antiquity. One of the odd subjects with which he occupied himself
was an examination into the truth of reported cases of longevity, which, according to his custom,
he doubted or disbelieved. This subject was uppermost in his mind while pursuing his canvass
of Herefordshire in 1852. On applying to a voter one day for his support, he was met by a decided
refusal. "I am sorry," was the candidate's reply, "that you can't give me your vote; but perhaps
you can tell me whether anybody in your parish has died at an extraordinary age!"

The contemporaries of Sir George Lewis also furnish many striking instances of the consolations
afforded by literature to statesmen wearied with the toils of public life. Though the door
of office may be closed, that of literature stands always open, and men who are at daggers-drawn
in politics, join hands over the poetry of Homer and Horace. The late Earl of Derby, on retiring
from power, produced his noble version of 'The Iliad,' which will probably continue to be read
when his speeches have been forgotten. Mr. Gladstone similarly occupied his leisure in preparing
for the press his 'Studies on Homer,' [1324] and in editing a translation of 'Farini's Roman
State;' while Mr. Disraeli signalised his retirement from office by the production of his 'Lothair.'
Among statesmen who have figured as novelists, besides Mr. Disraeli, are Lord Russell, who
has also contributed largely to history and biography; the Marquis of Normandy, and the veteran
novelist, Lord Lytton, with whom, indeed, politics may be said to have been his recreation,
and literature the chief employment of his life.

To conclude: a fair measure of work is good for mind as well as body. Man is an intelligence
sustained and preserved by bodily organs, and their active exercise is necessary to the enjoyment
of health. It is not work, but overwork, that is hurtful; and it is not hard work that is injurious
so much as monotonous work, fagging work, hopeless work. All hopeful work is healthful; and
to be usefully and hopefully employed is one of the great secrets of happiness. Brain-work,
in moderation, is no more wearing than any other kind of work. Duly regulated, it is as promotive
of health as bodily exercise; and, where due attention is paid to the physical system, it seems
difficult to put more upon a man than he can bear. Merely to eat and drink and sleep one's
way idly through life is vastly more injurious. The wear-and-tear of rust is even faster than
the tear-and-wear of work.

But overwork is always bad economy. It is, in fact, great waste, especially if conjoined with
worry. Indeed, worry kills far more than work does. It frets, it excites, it consumes the body--as
sand and grit, which occasion excessive friction, wear out the wheels of a machine. Overwork
and worry have both to be guarded against. For over-brain-work is strain-work; and it is exhausting
and destructive according as it is in excess of nature. And the brain-worker may exhaust and
overbalance his mind by excess, just as the athlete may overstrain his muscles and break his
back by attempting feats beyond the strength of his physical system.

CHAPTER V.--COURAGE.

        "It is not but the tempest that doth show
         The seaman's cunning; but the field that tries
         The captain's courage; and we come to know
         Best what men are, in their worst jeopardies."--DANIEL.

     "The heroic example of other days is in great part the
     source of the courage of each generation; and men walk up
     composedly to the most perilous enterprises, beckoned
     onwards by the shades of the brave that were."--HELPS.

            "That which we are, we are,
      One equal temper of heroic hearts,
      Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will
      To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."--TENNYSON.

THE world owes much to its men and women of courage. We do not mean physical courage, in which
man is at least equalled by the bulldog; nor is the bulldog considered the wisest of his species.

The courage that displays itself in silent effort and endeavour--that dares to endure all and
suffer all for truth and duty--is more truly heroic than the achievements of physical valour,
which are rewarded by honours and titles, or by laurels sometimes steeped in blood.

It is moral courage that characterises the highest order of manhood and womanhood--the courage
to seek and to speak the truth; the courage to be just; the courage to be honest; the courage
to resist temptation; the courage to do one's duty. If men and women do not possess this virtue,
they have no security whatever for the preservation of any other.

Every step of progress in the history of our race has been made in the face of opposition and
difficulty, and been achieved and secured by men of intrepidity and valour--by leaders in the
van of thought--by great discoverers, great patriots, and great workers in all walks of life.

    "Many loved Truth and lavished life's best oil,
       Amid the dust of books to find her,
    Content at last, for guerdon of their toil,
       With the cast mantle she had left behind her.
    Many in sad faith sought for her,
    Many with crossed hands sighed for her,
    But these, our brothers, fought for her,
    At life's dear peril wrought for her,
    So loved her that they died for her,
    Tasting the raptured fleetness
    Of her divine completeness." [141]

Socrates was condemned to drink the hemlock at Athens in his seventy-second year, because his
lofty teaching ran counter to the prejudices and party-spirit of his age. He was charged by
his accusers with corrupting the youth of Athens by inciting them to despise the tutelary deities
of the state. He had the moral courage to brave not only the tyranny of the judges who condemned
him, but of the mob who could not understand him. He died discoursing of the doctrine of the
immortality of the soul; his last words to his judges being, "It is now time that we depart--I
to die, you to live; but which has the better destiny is unknown to all, except to the God."

How many great men and thinkers have been persecuted in the name of religion! Bruno was burnt
alive at Rome, because of his exposure of the fashionable but false philosophy of his time.
When the judges of the Inquisition condemned him, to die, Bruno said proudly: "You are more
afraid to pronounce my sentence than I am to receive it."

To him succeeded Galileo, whose character as a man of science is almost eclipsed by that of
the martyr. Denounced by the priests from the pulpit, because of the views he taught as to
the motion of the earth, he was summoned to Rome, in his seventieth year, to answer for his
heterodoxy. And he was imprisoned in the Inquisition, if he was not actually put to the torture
there. He was pursued by persecution even when dead, the Pope refusing a tomb for his body.

Roger Bacon, the Franciscan monk, was persecuted on account of his studies in natural philosophy,
and he was charged with, dealing in magic, because of his investigations in chemistry. His
writings were condemned, and he was thrown into prison, where he lay for ten years, during
the lives of four successive Popes. It is even averred that he died in prison.

Ockham, the early English speculative philosopher, was excommunicated by the Pope, and died
in exile at Munich, where he was protected by the friendship of the then Emperor of Germany.

The Inquisition branded Vesalius as a heretic for revealing man to man, as it had before branded
Bruno and Galileo for revealing the heavens to man. Vesalius had the boldness to study the
structure of the human body by actual dissection, a practice until then almost entirely forbidden.
He laid the foundations of a science, but he paid for it with his life. Condemned by the Inquisition,
his penalty was commuted, by the intercession of the Spanish king, into a pilgrimage to the
Holy Land; and when on his way back, while still in the prime of life, he died miserably at
Zante, of fever and want--a martyr to his love of science.

When the 'Novum Organon' appeared, a hue-and-cry was raised against it, because of its alleged
tendency to produce "dangerous revolutions," to "subvert governments," and to "overturn the
authority of religion;" [142] and one Dr. Henry Stubbe [14whose name would otherwise have been
forgotten] wrote a book against the new philosophy, denouncing the whole tribe of experimentalists
as "a Bacon-faced generation." Even the establishment of the Royal Society was opposed, on
the ground that "experimental philosophy is subversive of the Christian faith."

While the followers of Copernicus were persecuted as infidels, Kepler was branded with the
stigma of heresy, "because," said he, "I take that side which seems to me to be consonant with
the Word of God." Even the pure and simpleminded Newton, of whom Bishop Burnet said that he
had the WHITEST SOUL he ever knew--who was a very infant in the purity of his mind--even Newton
was accused of "dethroning the Deity" by his sublime discovery of the law of gravitation; and
a similar charge was made against Franklin for explaining the nature of the thunderbolt.

Spinoza was excommunicated by the Jews, to whom he belonged, because of his views of philosophy,
which were supposed to be adverse to religion; and his life was afterwards attempted by an
assassin for the same reason. Spinoza remained courageous and self-reliant to the last, dying
in obscurity and poverty.

The philosophy of Descartes was denounced as leading to irreligion; the doctrines of Locke
were said to produce materialism; and in our own day, Dr. Buckland, Mr. Sedgwick, and other
leading geologists, have been accused of overturning revelation with regard to the constitution
and history of the earth. Indeed, there has scarcely been a discovery in astronomy, in natural
history, or in physical science, that has not been attacked by the bigoted and narrow-minded
as leading to infidelity.

Other great discoverers, though they may not have been charged with irreligion, have had not
less obloquy of a professional and public nature to encounter. When Dr. Harvey published his
theory of the circulation of the blood, his practice fell off, [143] and the medical profession
stigmatised him as a fool. "The few good things I have been able to do," said John Hunter,
"have been accomplished with the greatest difficulty, and encountered the greatest opposition."
Sir Charles Bell, while employed in his important investigations as to the nervous system,
which issued in one of the greatest of physiological discoveries, wrote to a friend: "If I
were not so poor, and had not so many vexations to encounter, how happy would I be!" But he
himself observed that his practice sensibly fell off after the publication of each successive
stage of his discovery.

Thus, nearly every enlargement of the domain of knowledge, which has made us better acquainted
with the heavens, with the earth, and with ourselves, has been established by the energy, the
devotion, the self-sacrifice, and the courage of the great spirits of past times, who, however
much they have been opposed or reviled by their contemporaries, now rank amongst those whom
the enlightened of the human race most delight to honour.

Nor is the unjust intolerance displayed towards men of science in the past, without its lesson
for the present. It teaches us to be forbearant towards those who differ from us, provided
they observe patiently, think honestly, and utter their convictions freely and truthfully.
It was a remark of Plato, that "the world is God's epistle to mankind;" and to read and study
that epistle, so as to elicit its true meaning, can have no other effect on a well-ordered
mind than to lead to a deeper impression of His power, a clearer perception of His wisdom,
and a more grateful sense of His goodness.

While such has been the courage of the martyrs of science, not less glorious has been the courage
of the martyrs of faith. The passive endurance of the man or woman who, for conscience sake,
is found ready to suffer and to endure in solitude, without so much as the encouragement of
even a single sympathising voice, is an exhibition of courage of a far higher kind than that
displayed in the roar of battle, where even the weakest feels encouraged and inspired by the
enthusiasm of sympathy and the power of numbers. Time would fail to tell of the deathless names
of those who through faith in principles, and in the face of difficulty, danger, and suffering,
"have wrought righteousness and waxed valiant" in the moral warfare of the world, and been
content to lay down their lives rather than prove false to their conscientious convictions
of the truth.

Men of this stamp, inspired by a high sense of duty, have in past times exhibited character
in its most heroic aspects, and continue to present to us some of the noblest spectacles to
be seen in history. Even women, full of tenderness and gentleness, not less than men, have
in this cause been found capable of exhibiting the most unflinching courage. Such, for instance,
as that of Anne Askew, who, when racked until her bones were dislocated, uttered no cry, moved
no muscle, but looked her tormentors calmly in the face, and refused either to confess or to
recant; or such as that of Latimer and Ridley, who, instead of bewailing their hard fate and
beating their breasts, went as cheerfully to their death as a bridegroom to the altar--the
one bidding the other to "be of good comfort," for that "we shall this day light such a candle
in England, by God's grace, as shall never be put out;" or such, again, as that of Mary Dyer,
the Quakeress, hanged by the Puritans of New England for preaching to the people, who ascended
the scaffold with a willing step, and, after calmly addressing those who stood about, resigned
herself into the hands of her persecutors, and died in peace and joy.

Not less courageous was the behaviour of the good Sir Thomas More, who marched willingly to
the scaffold, and died cheerfully there, rather than prove false to his conscience. When More
had made his final decision to stand upon his principles, he felt as if he had won a victory,
and said to his son-in-law Roper: "Son Roper, I thank Our Lord, the field is won!" The Duke
of Norfolk told him of his danger, saying: "By the mass, Master More, it is perilous striving
with princes; the anger of a prince brings death!". "Is that all, my lord?" said More; "then
the difference between you and me is this--that I shall die to-day, and you to-morrow."

While it has been the lot of many great men, in times of difficulty and danger, to be cheered
and supported by their wives, More had no such consolation. His helpmate did anything but console
him during his imprisonment in the Tower. [144] She could not conceive that there was any sufficient
reason for his continuing to lie there, when by merely doing what the King required of him,
he might at once enjoy his liberty, together with his fine house at Chelsea, his library, his
orchard, his gallery, and the society of his wife and children. "I marvel," said she to him
one day, "that you, who have been alway hitherto taken for wise, should now so play the fool
as to lie here in this close filthy prison, and be content to be shut up amongst mice and rats,
when you might be abroad at your liberty, if you would but do as the bishops have done?" But
More saw his duty from a different point of view: it was not a mere matter of personal comfort
with him; and the expostulations of his wife were of no avail. He gently put her aside, saying
cheerfully, "Is not this house as nigh heaven as my own?"--to which she contemptuously rejoined:
"Tilly vally--tilly vally!"

More's daughter, Margaret Roper, on the contrary, encouraged her father to stand firm in his
principles, and dutifully consoled and cheered him during his long confinement. Deprived of
pen-and-ink, he wrote his letters to her with a piece of coal, saying in one of them: "If I
were to declare in writing how much pleasure your daughterly loving letters gave me, a PECK
OF COALS would not suffice to make the pens." More was a martyr to veracity: he would not swear
a false oath; and he perished because he was sincere. When his head had been struck off, it
was placed on London Bridge, in accordance with the barbarous practice of the times. Margaret
Roper had the courage to ask for the head to be taken down and given to her, and, carrying
her affection for her father beyond the grave, she desired that it might be buried with her
when she died; and long after, when Margaret Roper's tomb was opened, the precious relic was
observed lying on the dust of what had been her bosom.

Martin Luther was not called upon to lay down his life for his faith; but, from the day that
he declared himself against the Pope, he daily ran the risk of losing it. At the beginning
of his great struggle, he stood almost entirely alone. The odds against him were tremendous.
"On one side," said he himself, "are learning, genius, numbers, grandeur, rank, power, sanctity,
miracles; on the other Wycliffe, Lorenzo Valla, Augustine, and Luther--a poor creature, a man
of yesterday, standing wellnigh alone with a few friends." Summoned by the Emperor to appear
at Worms; to answer the charge made against him of heresy, he determined to answer in person.
Those about him told him that he would lose his life if he went, and they urged him to fly.
"No," said he, "I will repair thither, though I should find there thrice as many devils as
there are tiles upon the housetops!" Warned against the bitter enmity of a certain Duke George,
he said--"I will go there, though for nine whole days running it rained Duke Georges."

Luther was as good as his word; and he set forth upon his perilous journey. When he came in
sight of the old bell-towers of Worms, he stood up in his chariot and sang, "EIN FESTE BURG
IST UNSER GOTT."--the 'Marseillaise' of the Reformation--the words and music of which he is
said to have improvised only two days before. Shortly before the meeting of the Diet, an old
soldier, George Freundesberg, put his hand upon Luther's shoulder, and said to him: "Good monk,
good monk, take heed what thou doest; thou art going into a harder fight than any of us have
ever yet been in." But Luther's only answer to the veteran was, that he had "determined to
stand upon the Bible and his conscience."

Luther's courageous defence before the Diet is on record, and forms one of the most glorious
pages in history. When finally urged by the Emperor to retract, he said firmly: "Sire, unless
I am convinced of my error by the testimony of Scripture, or by manifest evidence, I cannot
and will not retract, for we must never act contrary to our conscience. Such is my profession
of faith, and you must expect none other from me. HIER STEHE ICH: ICH KANN NICHT ANDERS: GOTT
HELFE MIR!" [14Here stand I: I cannot do otherwise: God help me!]. He had to do his duty--to
obey the orders of a Power higher than that of kings; and he did it at all hazards.

Afterwards, when hard pressed by his enemies at Augsburg, Luther said that "if he had five
hundred heads, he would lose them all rather than recant his article concerning faith." Like
all courageous men, his strength only seemed to grow in proportion to the difficulties he had
to encounter and overcome. "There is no man in Germany," said Hutten, "who more utterly despises
death than does Luther." And to his moral courage, perhaps more than to that of any other single
man, do we owe the liberation of modern thought, and the vindication of the great rights of
the human understanding.

The honourable and brave man does not fear death compared with ignominy. It is said of the
Royalist Earl of Strafford that, as he walked to the scaffold on Tower Hill, his step and manner
were those of a general marching at the head of an army to secure victory, rather than of a
condemned man to undergo sentence of death. So the Commonwealth's man, Sir John Eliot, went
alike bravely to his death on the same spot, saying: "Ten thousand deaths rather than defile
my conscience, the chastity and purity of which I value beyond all this world." Eliot's greatest
tribulation was on account of his wife, whom he had to leave behind. When he saw her looking
down upon him from the Tower window, he stood up in the cart, waved his hat, and cried: "To
heaven, my love!--to heaven!--and leave you in the storm!" As he went on his way, one in the
crowd called out, "That is the most glorious seat you ever sat on;" to which he replied: "It
is so, indeed!" and rejoiced exceedingly. [145]

Although success is the guerdon for which all men toil, they have nevertheless often to labour
on perseveringly, without any glimmer of success in sight. They have to live, meanwhile, upon
their courage--sowing their seed, it may be, in the dark, in the hope that it will yet take
root and spring up in achieved result. The best of causes have had to fight their way to triumph
through a long succession of failures, and many of the assailants have died in the breach before
the fortress has been won. The heroism they have displayed is to be measured, not so much by
their immediate success, as by the opposition they have encountered, and the courage with which
they have maintained the struggle.

The patriot who fights an always-losing battle--the martyr who goes to death amidst the triumphant
shouts of his enemies--the discoverer, like Columbus, whose heart remains undaunted through
the bitter years of his "long wandering woe"--are examples of the moral sublime which excite
a profounder interest in the hearts of men than even the most complete and conspicuous success.
By the side of such instances as these, how small by comparison seem the greatest deeds of
valour, inciting men to rush upon death and die amidst the frenzied excitement of physical warfare!

There needs also the exercise of no small degree of moral courage to resist the corrupting
influences of what is called "Society." Although "Mrs. Grundy" may be a very vulgar and commonplace
personage, her influence is nevertheless prodigious. Most men, but especially women, are the
moral slaves of the class or caste to which they belong. There is a sort of unconscious conspiracy
existing amongst them against each other's individuality. Each circle and section, each rank
and class, has its respective customs and observances, to which conformity is required at the
risk of being tabooed. Some are immured within a bastile of fashion, others of custom, others
of opinion; and few there are who have the courage to think outside their sect, to act outside
their party, and to step out into the free air of individual thought and action. We dress,
and eat, and follow fashion, though it may be at the risk of debt, ruin, and misery; living
not so much according to our means, as according to the superstitious observances of our class.
Though we may speak contemptuously of the Indians who flatten their heads, and of the Chinese
who cramp their toes, we have only to look at the deformities of fashion amongst ourselves,
to see that the reign of "Mrs. Grundy" is universal.

But moral cowardice is exhibited quite as much in public as in private life. Snobbism is not
confined to the toadying of the rich, but is quite as often displayed in the toadying of the
poor. Formerly, sycophancy showed itself in not daring to speak the truth to those in high
places; but in these days it rather shows itself in not daring to speak the truth to those
in low places. Now that "the masses" [146] exercise political power, there is a growing tendency
to fawn upon them, to flatter them, and to speak nothing but smooth words to them. They are
credited with virtues which they themselves know they do not possess. The public enunciation
of wholesome because disagreeable truths is avoided; and, to win their favour, sympathy is
often pretended for views, the carrying out of which in practice is known to be hopeless.

It is not the man of the noblest character--the highest-cultured and best-conditioned man--whose
favour is now sought, so much as that of the lowest man, the least-cultured and worst-conditioned
man, because his vote is usually that of the majority. Even men of rank, wealth, and education,
are seen prostrating themselves before the ignorant, whose votes are thus to be got. They are
ready to be unprincipled and unjust rather than unpopular. It is so much easier for some men
to stoop, to bow, and to flatter, than to be manly, resolute, and magnanimous; and to yield
to prejudices than run counter to them. It requires strength and courage to swim against the
stream, while any dead fish can float with it.

This servile pandering to popularity has been rapidly on the increase of late years, and its
tendency has been to lower and degrade the character of public men. Consciences have become
more elastic. There is now one opinion for the chamber, and another for the platform. Prejudices
are pandered to in public, which in private are despised. Pretended conversions--which invariably
jump with party interests are more sudden; and even hypocrisy now appears to be scarcely thought
discreditable.

The same moral cowardice extends downwards as well as upwards. The action and reaction are
equal. Hypocrisy and timeserving above are accompanied by hypocrisy and timeserving below.
Where men of high standing have not the courage of their opinions, what is to be expected from
men of low standing? They will only follow such examples as are set before them. They too will
skulk, and dodge, and prevaricate--be ready to speak one way and act another--just like their
betters. Give them but a sealed box, or some hole-and-corner to hide their act in, and they
will then enjoy their "liberty!"

Popularity, as won in these days, is by no means a presumption in a man's favour, but is quite
as often a presumption against him. "No man," says the Russian proverb, "can rise to honour
who is cursed with a stiff backbone." But the backbone of the popularity-hunter is of gristle;
and he has no difficulty in stooping and bending himself in any direction to catch the breath
of popular applause.

Where popularity is won by fawning upon the people, by withholding the truth from them, by
writing and speaking down to the lowest tastes, and still worse by appeals to class-hatred,
[147] such a popularity must be simply contemptible in the sight of all honest men. Jeremy
Bentham, speaking of a well-known public character, said: "His creed of politics results less
from love of the many than from hatred of the few; it is too much under the influence of selfish
and dissocial affection." To how many men in our own day might not the same description apply?

Men of sterling character have the courage to speak the truth, even when it is unpopular. It
was said of Colonel Hutchinson by his wife, that he never sought after popular applause, or
prided himself on it: "He more delighted to do well than to be praised, and never set vulgar
commendations at such a rate as to act contrary to his own conscience or reason for the obtaining
them; nor would he forbear a good action which he was bound to, though all the world disliked
it; for he ever looked on things as they were in themselves, not through the dim spectacles
of vulgar estimation." [148]

"Popularity, in the lowest and most common sense," said Sir John Pakington, on a recent occasion,
[149] "is not worth the having. Do your duty to the best of your power, win the approbation
of your own conscience, and popularity, in its best and highest sense, is sure to follow."

When Richard Lovell Edgeworth, towards the close of his life, became very popular in his neighbourhood,
he said one day to his daughter: "Maria, I am growing dreadfully popular; I shall be good for
nothing soon; a man cannot be good for anything who is very popular." Probably he had in his
mind at the time the Gospel curse of the popular man, "Woe unto you, when all men shall speak
well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets."

Intellectual intrepidity is one of the vital conditions of independence and self-reliance of
character. A man must have the courage to be himself, and not the shadow or the echo of another.
He must exercise his own powers, think his own thoughts, and speak his own sentiments. He must
elaborate his own opinions, and form his own convictions. It has been said that he who dare
not form an opinion, must be a coward; he who will not, must be an idler; he who cannot, must
be a fool.

But it is precisely in this element of intrepidity that so many persons of promise fall short,
and disappoint the expectations of their friends. They march up to the scene of action, but
at every step their courage oozes out. They want the requisite decision, courage, and perseverance.
They calculate the risks, and weigh the chances, until the opportunity for effective effort
has passed, it may be never to return.

Men are bound to speak the truth in the love of it. "I had rather suffer," said John Pym, the
Commonwealth man, "for speaking the truth, than that the truth should suffer for want of my
speaking." When a man's convictions are honestly formed, after fair and full consideration,
he is justified in striving by all fair means to bring them into action. There are certain
states of society and conditions of affairs in which a man is bound to speak out, and be antagonistic--when
conformity is not only a weakness, but a sin. Great evils are in some cases only to be met
by resistance; they cannot be wept down, but must be battled down.

The honest man is naturally antagonistic to fraud, the truthful man to lying, the justice-loving
man to oppression, the pureminded man to vice and iniquity. They have to do battle with these
conditions, and if possible overcome them. Such men have in all ages represented the moral
force of the world. Inspired by benevolence and sustained by courage, they have been the mainstays
of all social renovation and progress. But for their continuous antagonism to evil conditions,
the world were for the most part given over to the dominion of selfishness and vice. All the
great reformers and martyrs were antagonistic men--enemies to falsehood and evildoing. The
Apostles themselves were an organised band of social antagonists, who contended with pride,
selfishness, superstition, and irreligion. And in our own time the lives of such men as Clarkson
and Granville Sharpe, Father Mathew and Richard Cobden, inspired by singleness of purpose,
have shown what highminded social antagonism can effect.

It is the strong and courageous men who lead and guide and rule the world. The weak and timid
leave no trace behind them; whilst the life of a single upright and energetic man is like a
track of light. His example is remembered and appealed to; and his thoughts, his spirit, and
his courage continue to be the inspiration of succeeding generations.

It is energy--the central element of which is will--that produces the miracles of enthusiasm
in all ages. Everywhere it is the mainspring of what is called force of character, and the
sustaining power of all great action. In a righteous cause the determined man stands upon his
courage as upon a granite block; and, like David, he will go forth to meet Goliath, strong
in heart though an host be encamped against him.

Men often conquer difficulties because they feel they can. Their confidence in themselves inspires
the confidence of others. When Caesar was at sea, and a storm began to rage, the captain of
the ship which carried him became unmanned by fear. "What art thou afraid of?" cried the great
captain; "thy vessel carries Caesar!" The courage of the brave man is contagious, and carries
others along with it. His stronger nature awes weaker natures into silence, or inspires them
with his own will and purpose.

The persistent man will not be baffled or repulsed by opposition. Diogenes, desirous of becoming
the disciple of Antisthenes, went and offered himself to the cynic. He was refused. Diogenes
still persisting, the cynic raised his knotty staff, and threatened to strike him if he did
not depart. "Strike!" said Diogenes; "you will not find a stick hard enough to conquer my perseverance."
Antisthenes, overcome, had not another word to say, but forthwith accepted him as his pupil.

Energy of temperament, with a moderate degree of wisdom, will carry a man further than any
amount of intellect without it. Energy makes the man of practical ability. It gives him VIS,
force, MOMENTUM. It is the active motive power of character; and if combined with sagacity
and self-possession, will enable a man to employ his powers to the best advantage in all the
affairs of life.

Hence it is that, inspired by energy of purpose, men of comparatively mediocre powers have
often been enabled to accomplish such extraordinary results. For the men who have most powerfully
influenced the world have not been so much men of genius as men of strong convictions and enduring
capacity for work, impelled by irresistible energy and invincible determination: such men,
for example, as were Mahomet, Luther, Knox, Calvin, Loyola, and Wesley.

Courage is by no means incompatible with tenderness. On the contrary, gentleness and tenderness
have been found to characterise the men, not less than the women, who have done the most courageous
deeds. Sir Charles Napier gave up sporting, because he could not bear to hurt dumb creatures.
The same gentleness and tenderness characterised his brother, Sir William, the historian of
the Peninsular War. [1410] Such also was the character of Sir James Outram, pronounced by Sir
Charles Napier to be "the Bayard of India, SANS PEUR ET SANS REPROCHE"--one of the bravest
and yet gentlest of men; respectful and reverent to women, tender to children, helpful of the
weak, stern to the corrupt, but kindly as summer to the honest and deserving. Moreover, he
was himself as honest as day, and as pure as virtue. Of him it might be said with truth, what
Fulke Greville said of Sidney: "He was a true model of worth--a man fit for conquest, reformation,
plantation, or what action soever is the greatest and hardest among men; his chief ends withal
being above all things the good of his fellows, and the service of his sovereign and country."

When Edward the Black Prince won the Battle of Poictiers, in which he took prisoner the French
king and his son, he entertained them in the evening at a banquet, when he insisted on waiting
upon and serving them at table. The gallant prince's knightly courtesy and demeanour won the
hearts of his captives as completely as his valour had won their persons; for, notwithstanding
his youth, Edward was a true knight, the first and bravest of his time--a noble pattern and
example of chivalry; his two mottoes, 'Hochmuth' and 'Ich dien' [14high spirit and reverent
service] not inaptly expressing his prominent and pervading qualities.

It is the courageous man who can best afford to be generous; or rather, it is his nature to
be so. When Fairfax, at the Battle of Naseby, seized the colours from an ensign whom he had
struck down in the fight, he handed them to a common soldier to take care of. The soldier,
unable to resist the temptation, boasted to his comrades that he had himself seized the colours,
and the boast was repeated to Fairfax. "Let him retain the honour," said the commander; "I
have enough beside."

So when Douglas, at the Battle of Bannockburn, saw Randolph, his rival, outnumbered and apparently
overpowered by the enemy, he prepared to hasten to his assistance; but, seeing that Randolph
was already driving them back, he cried out, "Hold and halt! We are come too late to aid them;
let us not lessen the victory they have won by affecting to claim a share in it."

Quite as chivalrous, though in a very different field of action, was the conduct of Laplace
to the young philosopher Biot, when the latter had read to the French Academy his paper, "SUR
LES EQUATIONS AUX DIFFERENCE MELEES." The assembled SAVANS, at its close, felicitated the reader
of the paper on his originality. Monge was delighted at his success. Laplace also praised him
for the clearness of his demonstrations, and invited Biot to accompany him home. Arrived there,
Laplace took from a closet in his study a paper, yellow with age, and handed it to the young
philosopher. To Biot's surprise, he found that it contained the solutions, all worked out,
for which he had just gained so much applause. With rare magnanimity, Laplace withheld all
knowledge of the circumstance from Biot until the latter had initiated his reputation before
the Academy; moreover, he enjoined him to silence; and the incident would have remained a secret
had not Biot himself published it, some fifty years afterwards.

An incident is related of a French artisan, exhibiting the same characteristic of self-sacrifice
in another form. In front of a lofty house in course of erection at Paris was the usual scaffold,
loaded with men and materials. The scaffold, being too weak, suddenly broke down, and the men
upon it were precipitated to the ground--all except two, a young man and a middle-aged one,
who hung on to a narrow ledge, which trembled under their weight, and was evidently on the
point of giving way. "Pierre," cried the elder of the two, "let go; I am the father of a family."
"C'EST JUSTE!" said Pierre; and, instantly letting go his hold, he fell and was killed on the
spot. The father of the family was saved.

The brave man is magnanimous as well as gentle. He does not take even an enemy at a disadvantage,
nor strike a man when he is down and unable to defend himself. Even in the midst of deadly
strife such instances of generosity have not been uncommon. Thus, at the Battle of Dettingen,
during the heat of the action, a squadron of French cavalry charged an English regiment; but
when the young French officer who led them, and was about to attack the English leader, observed
that he had only one arm, with which he held his bridle, the Frenchman saluted him courteously
with his sword, and passed on. [1411]

It is related of Charles V., that after the siege and capture of Wittenburg by the Imperialist
army, the monarch went to see the tomb of Luther. While reading the inscription on it, one
of the servile courtiers who accompanied him proposed to open the grave, and give the ashes
of the "heretic" to the winds. The monarch's cheek flushed with honest indignation: "I war
not with the dead," said he; "let this place be respected."

The portrait which the great heathen, Aristotle, drew of the Magnanimous Man, in other words
the True Gentleman, more than two thousand years ago, is as faithful now as it was then. He
will neither shun danger nor seek it, for there are few things which he cares for. He is reticent,
and somewhat slow of speech, but speaks his mind openly and boldly when occasion calls for
it. He is apt to admire, for nothing is great to him. He overlooks injuries. He is not given
to talk about himself or about others; for he does not care that he himself should be praised,
or that other people should be blamed. He does not cry out about trifles, and craves help from
none."

On the other hand, mean men admire meanly. They have neither modesty, generosity, nor magnanimity.
They are ready to take advantage of the weakness or defencelessness of others, especially where
they have themselves succeeded, by unscrupulous methods, in climbing to positions of authority.
Snobs in high places are always much less tolerable than snobs of low degree, because they
have more frequent opportunities of making their want of manliness felt. They assume greater
airs, and are pretentious in all that they do; and the higher their elevation, the more conspicuous
is the incongruity of their position. "The higher the monkey climbs," says the proverb, "the
more he shows his tail."

Much depends on the way in which a thing is done. An act which might be taken as a kindness
if done in a generous spirit, when done in a grudging spirit, may be felt as stingy, if not
harsh and even cruel. When Ben Jonson lay sick and in poverty, the king sent him a paltry message,
accompanied by a gratuity. The sturdy plainspoken poet's reply was: "I suppose he sends me
this because I live in an alley; tell him his soul lives in an alley."

From what we have said, it will be obvious that to be of an enduring and courageous spirit,
is of great importance in the formation of character. It is a source not only of usefulness
in life, but of happiness. On the other hand, to be of a timid and, still more, of a cowardly
nature is one of the greatest misfortunes. A. wise man was accustomed to say that one of the
principal objects he aimed at in the education of his sons and daughters was to train them
in the habit of fearing nothing so much as fear. And the habit of avoiding fear is, doubtless,
capable of being trained like any other habit, such as the habit of attention, of diligence,
of study, or of cheerfulness.

Much of the fear that exists is the offspring of imagination, which creates the images of evils
which MAY happen, but perhaps rarely do; and thus many persons who are capable of summoning
up courage to grapple with and overcome real dangers, are paralysed or thrown into consternation
by those which are imaginary. Hence, unless the imagination be held under strict discipline,
we are prone to meet evils more than halfway--to suffer them by forestalment, and to assume
the burdens which we ourselves create.

Education in courage is not usually included amongst the branches of female training, and yet
it is really of greater importance than either music, French, or the use of the globes. Contrary
to the view of Sir Richard Steele, that women should be characterised by a "tender fear," and
"an inferiority which makes her lovely," we would have women educated in resolution and courage,
as a means of rendering them more helpful, more self-reliant, and vastly more useful and happy.

There is, indeed, nothing attractive in timidity, nothing loveable in fear. All weakness, whether
of mind or body, is equivalent to deformity, and the reverse of interesting. Courage is graceful
and dignified, whilst fear, in any form, is mean and repulsive. Yet the utmost tenderness and
gentleness are consistent with courage. Ary Scheffer, the artist, once wrote to his daughter:-"Dear
daughter, strive to be of good courage, to be gentle-hearted; these are the true qualities
for woman. 'Troubles' everybody must expect. There is but one way of looking at fate--whatever
that be, whether blessings or afflictions--to behave with dignity under both. We must not lose
heart, or it will be the worse both for ourselves and for those whom we love. To struggle,
and again and again to renew the conflict--THIS is life's inheritance." [1412]

In sickness and sorrow, none are braver and less complaining sufferers than women. Their courage,
where their hearts are concerned, is indeed proverbial:

      "Oh! femmes c'est a tort qu'on vous nommes timides,
      A la voix de vos coeurs vous etes intrepides."

Experience has proved that women can be as enduring as men, under the heaviest trials and calamities;
but too little pains are taken to teach them to endure petty terrors and frivolous vexations
with fortitude. Such little miseries, if petted and indulged, quickly run into sickly sensibility,
and become the bane of their life, keeping themselves and those about them in a state of chronic
discomfort.

The best corrective of this condition of mind is wholesome moral and mental discipline. Mental
strength is as necessary for the development of woman's character as of man's. It gives her
capacity to deal with the affairs of life, and presence of mind, which enable her to act with
vigour and effect in moments of emergency. Character, in a woman, as in a man, will always
be found the best safeguard of virtue, the best nurse of religion, the best corrective of Time.
Personal beauty soon passes; but beauty of mind and character increases in attractiveness the
older it grows.

Ben Jonson gives a striking portraiture of a noble woman in these lines:--

   "I meant she should be courteous, facile, sweet,
      Free from that solemn vice of greatness, pride;
    I meant each softed virtue there should meet,
      Fit in that softer bosom to abide.
    Only a learned and a manly soul,
      I purposed her, that should with even powers,
    The rock, the spindle, and the shears control
      Of destiny, and spin her own free hours."

The courage of woman is not the less true because it is for the most part passive. It is not
encouraged by the cheers of the world, for it is mostly exhibited in the recesses of private
life. Yet there are cases of heroic patience and endurance on the part of women which occasionally
come to the light of day. One of the most celebrated instances in history is that of Gertrude
Von der Wart. Her husband, falsely accused of being an accomplice in the murder of the Emperor
Albert, was condemned to the most frightful of all punishments--to be broken alive on the wheel.
With most profound conviction of her husband's innocence the faithful woman stood by his side
to the last, watching over him during two days and nights, braving the empress's anger and
the inclemency of the weather, in the hope of contributing to soothe his dying agonies. [1413]

But women have not only distinguished themselves for their passive courage: impelled by affection,
or the sense of duty, they have occasionally become heroic. When the band of conspirators,
who sought the life of James II. of Scotland, burst into his lodgings at Perth, the king called
to the ladies, who were in the chamber outside his room, to keep the door as well as they could,
and give him time to escape. The conspirators had previously destroyed the locks of the doors,
so that the keys could not be turned; and when they reached the ladies' apartment, it was found
that the bar also had been removed. But, on hearing them approach, the brave Catherine Douglas,
with the hereditary courage of her family, boldly thrust her arm across the door instead of
the bar; and held it there until, her arm being broken, the conspirators burst into the room
with drawn swords and daggers, overthrowing the ladies, who, though unarmed, still endeavoured
to resist them.

The defence of Lathom House by Charlotte de la Tremouille, the worthy descendant of William
of Nassau and Admiral Coligny, was another striking instance of heroic bravery on the part
of a noble woman. When summoned by the Parliamentary forces to surrender, she declared that
she had been entrusted by her husband with the defence of the house, and that she could not
give it up without her dear lord's orders, but trusted in God for protection and deliverance.
In her arrangements for the defence, she is described as having "left nothing with her eye
to be excused afterwards by fortune or negligence, and added to her former patience a most
resolved fortitude." The brave lady held her house and home good against the enemy for a whole
year--during three months of which the place was strictly besieged and bombarded--until at
length the siege was raised, after a most gallant defence, by the advance of the Royalist army.

Nor can we forget the courage of Lady Franklin, who persevered to the last, when the hopes
of all others had died out, in prosecuting the search after the Franklin Expedition. On the
occasion of the Royal Geographical Society determining to award the Founder's Medal to Lady
Franklin, Sir Roderick Murchison observed, that in the course of a long friendship with her,
he had abundant opportunities of observing and testing the sterling qualities of a woman who
had proved herself worthy of the admiration of mankind. "Nothing daunted by failure after failure,
through twelve long years of hope deferred, she had persevered, with a singleness of purpose
and a sincere devotion which were truly unparalleled. And now that her one last expedition
of the FOX, under the gallant M'Clintock, had realised the two great facts--that her husband
had traversed wide seas unknown to former navigators, and died in discovering a north-west
passage--then, surely, the adjudication of the medal would be hailed by the nation as one of
the many recompences to which the widow of the illustrious Franklin was so eminently entitled."

But that devotion to duty which marks the heroic character has more often been exhibited by
women in deeds of charity and mercy. The greater part of these are never known, for they are
done in private, out of the public sight, and for the mere love of doing good. Where fame has
come to them, because of the success which has attended their labours in a more general sphere,
it has come unsought and unexpected, and is often felt as a burden. Who has not heard of Mrs.
Fry and Miss Carpenter as prison visitors and reformers; of Mrs. Chisholm and Miss Rye as promoters
of emigration; and of Miss Nightingale and Miss Garrett as apostles of hospital nursing?

That these women should have emerged from the sphere of private and domestic life to become
leaders in philanthropy, indicates no small, degree of moral courage on their part; for to
women, above all others, quiet and ease and retirement are most natural and welcome. Very few
women step beyond the boundaries of home in search of a larger field of usefulness. But when
they have desired one, they have had no difficulty in finding it. The ways in which men and
women can help their neighbours are innumerable. It needs but the willing heart and ready hand.
Most of the philanthropic workers we have named, however, have scarcely been influenced by
choice. The duty lay in their way--it seemed to be the nearest to them--and they set about
doing it without desire for fame, or any other reward but the approval of their own conscience.

Among prison-visitors, the name of Sarah Martin is much less known than that of Mrs. Fry, although
she preceded her in the work. How she was led to undertake it, furnishes at the same time an
illustration of womanly trueheartedness and earnest womanly courage.

Sarah Martin was the daughter of poor parents, and was left an orphan at an early age. She
was brought up by her grandmother, at Caistor, near Yarmouth, and earned her living by going
out to families as assistant-dressmaker, at a shilling a day. In 1819, a woman was tried and
sentenced to imprisonment in Yarmouth Gaol, for cruelly beating and illusing her child, and
her crime became the talk of the town. The young dressmaker was much impressed by the report
of the trial, and the desire entered her mind of visiting the woman in gaol, and trying to
reclaim her. She had often before, on passing the walls of the borough gaol, felt impelled
to seek admission, with the object of visiting the inmates, reading the Scriptures to them,
and endeavouring to lead them back to the society whose laws they had violated.

At length she could not resist her impulse to visit the mother. She entered the gaol-porch,
lifted the knocker, and asked the gaoler for admission. For some reason or other she was refused;
but she returned, repeated her request, and this time she was admitted. The culprit mother
shortly stood before her. When Sarah Martin told the motive of her visit, the criminal burst
into tears, and thanked her. Those tears and thanks shaped the whole course of Sarah Martin's
after-life; and the poor seamstress, while maintaining herself by her needle, continued to
spend her leisure hours in visiting the prisoners, and endeavouring to alleviate their condition.
She constituted herself their chaplain and schoolmistress, for at that time they had neither;
she read to them from the Scriptures, and taught them to read and write. She gave up an entire
day in the week for this purpose, besides Sundays, as well as other intervals of spare time,
"feeling," she says, "that the blessing of God was upon her." She taught the women to knit,
to sew, and to cut out; the sale of the articles enabling her to buy other materials, and to
continue the industrial education thus begun. She also taught the men to make straw hats, men's
and boys' caps, gray cotton shirts, and even patchwork--anything to keep them out of idleness,
and from preying on their own thoughts. Out of the earnings of the prisoners in this way, she
formed a fund, which she applied to furnishing them with work on their discharge; thus enabling
them again to begin the world honestly, and at the same time affording her, as she herself
says, "the advantage of observing their conduct."

By attending too exclusively to this prison-work, however, Sarah Martin's dressmaking business
fell off; and the question arose with her, whether in order to recover her business she was
to suspend her prison-work. But her decision had already been made. "I had counted the cost,"
she said, "and my mind, was made up. If, whilst imparting truth to others, I became exposed
to temporal want, the privations so momentary to an individual would not admit of comparison
with following the Lord, in thus administering to others." She now devoted six or seven hours
every day to the prisoners, converting what would otherwise have been a scene of dissolute
idleness into a hive of orderly industry. Newly-admitted prisoners were sometimes refractory,
but her persistent gentleness eventually won their respect and co-operation. Men old in years
and crime, pert London pickpockets, depraved boys and dissolute sailors, profligate women,
smugglers, poachers, and the promiscuous horde of criminals which usually fill the gaol of
a seaport and county town, all submitted to the benign influence of this good woman; and under
her eyes they might be seen, for the first time in their lives, striving to hold a pen, or
to master the characters in a penny primer. She entered into their confidences--watched, wept,
prayed, and felt for all by turns. She strengthened their good resolutions, cheered the hopeless
and despairing, and endeavoured to put all, and hold all, in the right road of amendment.

For more than twenty years this good and truehearted woman pursued her noble course, with little
encouragement, and not much help; almost her only means of subsistence consisting in an annual
income of ten or twelve pounds left by her grandmother, eked out by her little earnings at
dressmaking. During the last two years of her ministrations, the borough magistrates of Yarmouth,
knowing that her self-imposed labours saved them the expense of a schoolmaster and chaplain
[14which they had become bound by law to appoint], made a proposal to her of an annual salary
of 12L. a year; but they did it in so indelicate a manner as greatly to wound her sensitive
feelings. She shrank from becoming the salaried official of the corporation, and bartering
for money those serviced which had throughout been labours of love. But the Gaol Committee
coarsely informed her, "that if they permitted her to visit the prison she must submit to their
terms, or be excluded." For two years, therefore, she received the salary of 12L. a year--the
acknowledgment of the Yarmouth corporation for her services as gaol chaplain and schoolmistress!
She was now, however, becoming old and infirm, and the unhealthy atmosphere of the gaol did
much towards finally disabling her. While she lay on her deathbed, she resumed the exercise
of a talent she had occasionally practised before in her moments of leisure--the composition
of sacred poetry. As works of art, they may not excite admiration; yet never were verses written
truer in spirit, or fuller of Christian love. But her own life was a nobler poem than any she
ever wrote--full of true courage, perseverance, charity, and wisdom. It was indeed a commentary
upon her own words:

      "The high desire that others may be blest
       Savours of heaven."

CHAPTER VI.--SELF-CONTROL.

     "Honour and profit do not always lie in the same sack."--
     GEORGE HERBERT.

     "The government of one's self is the only true freedom for
     the Individual."--FREDERICK PERTHES.

     "It is in length of patience, and endurance, and
     forbearance, that so much of what is good in mankind and
     womankind is shown."--ARTHUR HELPS.

                      "Temperance, proof
      Against all trials; industry severe
      And constant as the motion of the day;
      Stern self-denial round him spread, with shade
      That might be deemed forbidding, did not there
      All generous feelings flourish and rejoice;
      Forbearance, charity indeed and thought,
      And resolution competent to take
      Out of the bosom of simplicity
      All that her holy customs recommend."--WORDSWORTH.

Self-control is only courage under another form. It may almost be regarded as the primary essence
of character. It is in virtue of this quality that Shakspeare defines man as a being "looking
before and after." It forms the chief distinction between man and the mere animal; and, indeed,
there can be no true manhood without it.

Self-control is at the root of all the virtues. Let a man give the reins to his impulses and
passions, and from that moment he yields up his moral freedom. He is carried along the current
of life, and becomes the slave of his strongest desire for the time being.

To be morally free--to be more than an animal--man must be able to resist instinctive impulse,
and this can only be done by the exercise of self-control. Thus it is this power which constitutes
the real distinction between a physical and a moral life, and that forms the primary basis
of individual character.

In the Bible praise is given, not to the strong man who "taketh a city," but to the stronger
man who "ruleth his own spirit." This stronger man is he who, by discipline, exercises a constant
control over his thoughts, his speech, and his acts. Nine-tenths of the vicious desires that
degrade society, and which, when indulged, swell into the crimes that disgrace it, would shrink
into insignificance before the advance of valiant self-discipline, self-respect, and self-control.
By the watchful exercise of these virtues, purity of heart and mind become habitual, and the
character is built up in chastity, virtue, and temperance.

The best support of character will always be found in habit, which, according as the will is
directed rightly or wrongly, as the case may be, will prove either a benignant ruler or a cruel
despot. We may be its willing subject on the one hand, or its servile slave on the other. It
may help us on the road to good, or it may hurry us on the road to ruin.

Habit is formed by careful training. And it is astonishing how much can be accomplished by
systematic discipline and drill. See how, for instance, out of the most unpromising materials--such
as roughs picked up in the streets, or raw unkempt country lads taken from the plough--steady
discipline and drill will bring out the unsuspected qualities of courage, endurance, and self-sacrifice;
and how, in the field of battle, or even on the more trying occasions of perils by sea--such
as the burning of the SARAH SANDS or the wreck of the BIRKENHEAD--such men, carefully disciplined,
will exhibit the unmistakable characteristics of true bravery and heroism!

Nor is moral discipline and drill less influential in the formation of character. Without it,
there will be no proper system and order in the regulation of the life. Upon it depends the
cultivation of the sense of self-respect, the education of the habit of obedience, the development
of the idea of duty. The most self-reliant, self-governing man is always under discipline:
and the more perfect the discipline, the higher will be his moral condition. He has to drill
his desires, and keep them in subjection to the higher powers of his nature. They must obey
the word of command of the internal monitor, the conscience--otherwise they will be but the
mere slaves of their inclinations, the sport of feeling and impulse.

"In the supremacy of self-control," says Herbert Spencer, "consists one of the perfections
of the ideal man. Not to be impulsive--not to be spurred hither and thither by each desire
that in turn comes uppermost--but to be self-restrained, self-balanced, governed by the joint
decision of the feelings in council assembled, before whom every action shall have been fully
debated and calmly determined--that it is which education, moral education at least, strives
to produce." [151]

The first seminary of moral discipline, and the best, as we have already shown, is the home;
next comes the school, and after that the world, the great school of practical life. Each is
preparatory to the other, and what the man or woman becomes, depends for the most part upon
what has gone before. If they have enjoyed the advantage of neither the home nor the school,
but have been allowed to grow up untrained, untaught, and undisciplined, then woe to themselves--woe
to the society of which they form part!

The best-regulated home is always that in which the discipline is the most perfect, and yet
where it is the least felt. Moral discipline acts with the force of a law of nature. Those
subject to it yield themselves to it unconsciously; and though it shapes and forms the whole
character, until the life becomes crystallized in habit, the influence thus exercised is for
the most part unseen and almost unfelt.

The importance of strict domestic discipline is curiously illustrated by a fact mentioned in
Mrs. Schimmelpenninck's Memoirs, to the following effect: that a lady who, with her husband,
had inspected most of the lunatic asylums of England and the Continent, found the most numerous
class of patients was almost always composed of those who had been only children, and whose
wills had therefore rarely been thwarted or disciplined in early life; whilst those who were
members of large families, and who had been trained in self-discipline, were far less frequent
victims to the malady.

Although the moral character depends in a great degree on temperament and on physical health,
as well as on domestic and early training and the example of companions, it is also in the
power of each individual to regulate, to restrain, and to discipline it by watchful and persevering
self-control. A competent teacher has said of the propensities and habits, that they are as
teachable as Latin and Greek, while they are much more essential to happiness.

Dr. Johnson, though himself constitutionally prone to melancholy, and afflicted by it as few
have been from his earliest years, said that "a man's being in a good or bad humour very much
depends upon his will." We may train ourselves in a habit of patience and contentment on the
one hand, or of grumbling and discontent on the other. We may accustom ourselves to exaggerate
small evils, and to underestimate great blessings. We may even become the victim of petty miseries
by giving way to them. Thus, we may educate ourselves in a happy disposition, as well as in
a morbid one. Indeed, the habit of viewing things cheerfully, and of thinking about life hopefully,
may be made to grow up in us like any other habit. [152] It was not an exaggerated estimate
of Dr. Johnson to say, that the habit of looking at the best side of any event is worth far
more than a thousand pounds a year.

The religious man's life is pervaded by rigid self-discipline and self-restraint. He is to
be sober and vigilant, to eschew evil and do good, to walk in the spirit, to be obedient unto
death, to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand; to wrestle against spiritual
wickedness, and against the rulers of the darkness of this world; to be rooted and built up
in faith, and not to be weary of well-doing; for in due season he shall reap, if he faint not.
[153] Yet, although patience is usually regarded as a "slow" virtue, Pitt combined with it
the most extraordinary readiness, vigour, and rapidity of thought as well as action.

It is by patience and self-control that the truly heroic character is perfected. These were
among the most prominent characteristics of the great Hampden, whose noble qualities were generously
acknowledged even by his political enemies. Thus Clarendon described him as a man of rare temper
and modesty, naturally cheerful and vivacious, and above all, of a flowing courtesy. He was
kind and intrepid, yet gentle, of unblameable conversation, and his heart glowed with love
to all men. He was not a man of many words, but, being of unimpeachable character, every word
he uttered carried weight. "No man had ever a greater power over himself.... He was very temperate
in diet, and a supreme governor over all his passions and affections; and he had thereby great
power over other men's."

Strong temper may only mean a strong and excitable will. Uncontrolled, it displays itself in
fitful outbreaks of passion; but controlled and held in subjection--like steam pent-up within
the organised mechanism of a steam-engine, the use of which is regulated and controlled by
slide-valves and governors and levers--it may become a source of energetic power and usefulness.
Hence, some of the greatest characters in history have been men of strong temper, but of equally
strong determination to hold their motive power under strict regulation and control.

The famous Earl of Strafford was of an extremely choleric and passionate nature, and had great
struggles with himself in his endeavours to control his temper. Referring to the advice of
one of his friends, old Secretary Cooke, who was honest enough to tell him of his weakness,
and to caution him against indulging it, he wrote: "You gave me a good lesson to be patient;
and, indeed, my years and natural inclinations give me heat more than enough, which, however,
I trust more experience shall cool, and a watch over myself in time altogether overcome; in
the meantime, in this at least it will set forth itself more pardonable, because my earnestness
shall ever be for the honour, justice, and profit of my master; and it is not always anger,
but the misapplying of it, that is the vice so blameable, and of disadvantage to those that
let themselves loose there-unto." [154]

Cromwell, also, is described as having been of a wayward and violent temper in his youth--cross,
untractable, and masterless--with a vast quantity of youthful energy, which exploded in a variety
of youthful mischiefs. He even obtained the reputation of a roysterer in his native town, and
seemed to be rapidly going to the bad, when religion, in one of its most rigid forms, laid
hold upon his strong nature, and subjected it to the iron discipline of Calvinism. An entirely
new direction was thus given to his energy of temperament, which forced an outlet for itself
into public life, and eventually became the dominating influence in England for a period of
nearly twenty years.

The heroic princes of the House of Nassau were all distinguished for the same qualities of
self-control, self-denial, and determination of purpose. William the Silent was so called,
not because he was a taciturn man--for he was an eloquent and powerful speaker where eloquence
was necessary--but because he was a man who could hold his tongue when it was wisdom not to
speak, and because he carefully kept his own counsel when to have revealed it might have been
dangerous to the liberties of his country. He was so gentle and conciliatory in his manner
that his enemies even described him as timid and pusillanimous. Yet, when the time for action
came, his courage was heroic, his determination unconquerable. "The rock in the ocean," says
Mr. Motley, the historian of the Netherlands, "tranquil amid raging billows, was the favourite
emblem by which his friends expressed their sense of his firmness." [156]

Wordsworth the poet was, in his childhood, "of a stiff, moody, and violent temper," and "perverse
and obstinate in defying chastisement." When experience of life had disciplined his temper,
he learnt to exercise greater self-control; but, at the same time, the qualities which distinguished
him as a child were afterwards useful in enabling him to defy the criticism of his enemies.
Nothing was more marked than Wordsworth's self-respect and self-determination, as well as his
self-consciousness of power, at all periods of his history.

Henry Martyn, the missionary, was another instance of a man in whom strength of temper was
only so much pent-up, unripe energy. As a boy he was impatient, petulant, and perverse; but
by constant wrestling against his tendency to wrongheadedness, he gradually gained the requisite
strength, so as to entirely overcome it, and to acquire what he so greatly coveted--the gift
of patience.

A man may be feeble in organization, but, blessed with a happy temperament, his soul may be
great, active, noble, and sovereign. Professor Tyndall has given us a fine picture of the character
of Faraday, and of his self-denying labours in the cause of science--exhibiting him as a man
of strong, original, and even fiery nature, and yet of extreme tenderness and sensibility.
"Underneath his sweetness and gentleness," he says, "was the heat of a volcano. He was a man
of excitable and fiery nature; but, through high self-discipline, he had converted the fire
into a central glow and motive power of life, instead of permitting it to waste itself in useless
passion."

There was one fine feature in Faraday's character which is worthy of notice--one closely akin
to self-control: it was his self-denial. By devoting himself to analytical chemistry, he might
have speedily realised a large fortune; but he nobly resisted the temptation, and preferred
to follow the path of pure science. "Taking the duration of his life into account," says Mr.
Tyndall, "this son of a blacksmith and apprentice to a bookbinder had to decide between a fortune
of L.150,000 on the one side, and his undowered science on the other. He chose the latter,
and died a poor man. But his was the glory of holding aloft among the nations the scientific
name of England for a period of forty years." [157]

Take a like instance of the self-denial of a Frenchman. The historian Anquetil was one of the
small number of literary men in France who refused to bow to the Napoleonic yoke. He sank into
great poverty, living on bread-and-milk, and limiting his expenditure to only three sous a
day. "I have still two sous a day left," said he, "for the conqueror of Marengo and Austerlitz."
"But if you fall sick," said a friend to him, "you will need the help of a pension. Why not
do as others do? Pay court to the Emperor--you have need of him to live." "I do not need him
to die," was the historian's reply. But Anquetil did not die of poverty; he lived to the age
of ninety-four, saying to a friend, on the eve of his death, "Come, see a man who dies still
full of life!"

Sir James Outram exhibited the same characteristic of noble self-denial, though in an altogether
different sphere of life. Like the great King Arthur, he was emphatically a man who "forbore
his own advantage." He was characterised throughout his whole career by his noble unselfishness.
Though he might personally disapprove of the policy he was occasionally ordered to carry out,
he never once faltered in the path of duty. Thus he did not approve of the policy of invading
Scinde; yet his services throughout the campaign were acknowledged by General Sir C. Napier
to have been of the most brilliant character. But when the war was over, and the rich spoils
of Scinde lay at the conqueror's feet, Outram said: "I disapprove of the policy of this war--I
will accept no share of the prize-money!"

Not less marked was his generous self-denial when despatched with a strong force to aid Havelock
in fighting his way to Lucknow. As superior officer, he was entitled to take upon himself the
chief command; but, recognising what Havelock had already done, with rare disinterestedness,
he left to his junior officer the glory of completing the campaign, offering to serve under
him as a volunteer. "With such reputation," said Lord Clyde, "as Major-General Outram has won
for himself, he can afford to share glory and honour with others. But that does not lessen
the value of the sacrifice he has made with such disinterested generosity."

If a man would get through life honourably and peaceably, he must necessarily learn to practise
self-denial in small things as well as great. Men have to bear as well as forbear. The temper
has to be held in subjection to the judgment; and the little demons of ill-humour, petulance,
and sarcasm, kept resolutely at a distance. If once they find an entrance to the mind, they
are very apt to return, and to establish for themselves a permanent occupation there.

It is necessary to one's personal happiness, to exercise control over one's words as well as
acts: for there are words that strike even harder than blows; and men may "speak daggers,"
though they use none. "UN COUP DE LANGUE," says the French proverb, "EST PIRE QU'UN COUP DE
LANCE." The stinging repartee that rises to the lips, and which, if uttered, might cover an
adversary with confusion, how difficult it sometimes is to resist saying it! "Heaven keep us,"
says Miss Bremer in her 'Home,' "from the destroying power of words! There are words which
sever hearts more than sharp swords do; there are words the point of which sting the heart
through the course of a whole life."

Thus character exhibits itself in self-control of speech as much as in anything else. The wise
and forbearant man will restrain his desire to say a smart or severe thing at the expense of
another's feelings; while the fool blurts out what he thinks, and will sacrifice his friend
rather than his joke. "The mouth of a wise man," said Solomon, "is in his heart; the heart
of a fool is in his mouth."

There are, however, men who are no fools, that are headlong in their language as in their acts,
because of their want of forbearance and self-restraining patience. The impulsive genius, gifted
with quick thought and incisive speech--perhaps carried away by the cheers of the moment--lets
fly a sarcastic sentence which may return upon him to his own infinite damage. Even statesmen
might be named, who have failed through their inability to resist the temptation of saying
clever and spiteful things at their adversary's expense. "The turn of a sentence," says Bentham,
"has decided the fate of many a friendship, and, for aught that we know, the fate of many a
kingdom." So, when one is tempted to write a clever but harsh thing, though it may be difficult
to restrain it, it is always better to leave it in the inkstand. "A goose's quill," says the
Spanish proverb, "often hurts more than a lion's claw."

Carlyle says, when speaking of Oliver Cromwell, "He that cannot withal keep his mind to himself,
cannot practise any considerable thing whatsoever." It was said of William the Silent, by one
of his greatest enemies, that an arrogant or indiscreet word was never known to fall from his
lips. Like him, Washington was discretion itself in the use of speech, never taking advantage
of an opponent, or seeking a shortlived triumph in a debate. And it is said that in the long
run, the world comes round to and supports the wise man who knows when and how to be silent.

We have heard men of great experience say that they have often regretted having spoken, but
never once regretted holding their tongue. "Be silent," says Pythagoras, "or say something
better than silence." "Speak fitly," says George Herbert, "or be silent wisely." St. Francis
de Sales, whom Leigh Hunt styled "the Gentleman Saint," has said: "It is better to remain silent
than to speak the truth ill-humouredly, and so spoil an excellent dish by covering it with
bad sauce." Another Frenchman, Lacordaire, characteristically puts speech first, and silence
next. "After speech," he says, "silence is the greatest power in the world." Yet a word spoken
in season, how powerful it may be! As the old Welsh proverb has it, "A golden tongue is in
the mouth of the blessed."

It is related, as a remarkable instance of self-control on the part of De Leon, a distinguished
Spanish poet of the sixteenth century, who lay for years in the dungeons of the Inquisition
without light or society, because of his having translated a part of the Scriptures into his
native tongue, that on being liberated and restored to his professorship, an immense crowd
attended his first lecture, expecting some account of his long imprisonment; but Do Leon was
too wise and too gentle to indulge in recrimination. He merely resumed the lecture which, five
years before, had been so sadly interrupted, with the accustomed formula "HERI DICEBAMUS,"
and went directly into his subject.

There are, of course, times and occasions when the expression of indignation is not only justifiable
but necessary. We are bound to be indignant at falsehood, selfishness, and cruelty. A man of
true feeling fires up naturally at baseness or meanness of any sort, even in cases where he
may be under no obligation to speak out. "I would have nothing to do," said Perthes, "with
the man who cannot be moved to indignation. There are more good people than bad in the world,
and the bad get the upper hand merely because they are bolder. We cannot help being pleased
with a man who uses his powers with decision; and we often take his side for no other reason
than because he does so use them. No doubt, I have often repented speaking; but not less often
have I repented keeping silence." [158]

One who loves right cannot be indifferent to wrong, or wrongdoing. If he feels warmly, he will
speak warmly, out of the fulness of his heart. As a noble lady [159] has written:

      "A noble heart doth teach a virtuous scorn--
      To scorn to owe a duty overlong,
      To scorn to be for benefits forborne,
      To scorn to lie, to scorn to do a wrong,
      To scorn to bear an injury in mind,
      To scorn a freeborn heart slave-like to bind." [1510] "Of all mental
gifts," says Miss Julia Wedgwood, "the rarest is intellectual patience;
and the last lesson of culture is to believe in difficulties which are
invisible to ourselves."

The best corrective of intolerance in disposition, is increase of wisdom and enlarged experience
of life. Cultivated good sense will usually save men from the entanglements in which moral
impatience is apt to involve them; good sense consisting chiefly in that temper of mind which
enables its possessor to deal with the practical affairs of life with justice, judgment, discretion,
and charity. Hence men of culture and experience are invariably, found the most forbearant
and tolerant, as ignorant and narrowminded persons are found the most unforgiving and intolerant.
Men of large and generous natures, in proportion to their practical wisdom, are disposed to
make allowance for the defects and disadvantages of others--allowance for the controlling power
of circumstances in the formation of character, and the limited power of resistance of weak
and fallible natures to temptation and error. "I see no fault committed," said Goethe, "which
I also might not have committed." So a wise and good man exclaimed, when he saw a criminal
drawn on his hurdle to Tyburn: "There goes Jonathan Bradford--but for the grace of God!"

Life will always be, to a great extent, what we ourselves make it. The cheerful man makes a
cheerful world, the gloomy man a gloomy one. We usually find but our own temperament reflected
in the dispositions of those about us. If we are ourselves querulous, we will find them so;
if we are unforgiving and uncharitable to them, they will be the same to us. A person returning
from an evening party not long ago, complained to a policeman on his beat that an ill-looking
fellow was following him: it turned out to be only his own shadow! And such usually is human
life to each of us; it is, for the most part, but the reflection of ourselves.

If we would be at peace with others, and ensure their respect, we must have regard for their
personality. Every man has his peculiarities of manner and character, as he has peculiarities
of form and feature; and we must have forbearance in dealing with them, as we expect them to
have forbearance in dealing with us. We may not be conscious of our own peculiarities, yet
they exist nevertheless. There is a village in South America where gotos or goitres are so
common that to be without one is regarded as a deformity. One day a party of Englishmen passed
through the place, when quite a crowd collected to jeer them, shouting: "See, see these people--they
have got NO GOTOS!"

Many persons give themselves a great deal of fidget concerning what other people think of them
and their peculiarities. Some are too much disposed to take the illnatured side, and, judging
by themselves, infer the worst. But it is very often the case that the uncharitableness of
others, where it really exists, is but the reflection of our own want of charity and want of
temper. It still oftener happens, that the worry we subject ourselves to, has its source in
our own imagination. And even though those about us may think of us uncharitably, we shall
not mend matters by exasperating ourselves against them. We may thereby only expose ourselves
unnecessarily to their illnature or caprice. "The ill that comes out of our mouth," says Herbert,
"ofttimes falls into our bosom."

The great and good philosopher Faraday communicated the following piece of admirable advice,
full of practical wisdom, the result of a rich experience of life, in a letter to his friend
Professor Tyndall:- "Let me, as an old man, who ought by this time to have profited by experience,
say that when I was younger I found I often misrepresented the intentions of people, and that
they did not mean what at the time I supposed they meant; and further, that, as a general rule,
it was better to be a little dull of apprehension where phrases seemed to imply pique, and
quick in perception when, on the contrary, they seemed to imply kindly feeling. The real truth
never fails ultimately to appear; and opposing parties, if wrong, are sooner convinced when
replied to forbearingly, than when overwhelmed. All I mean to say is, that it is better to
be blind to the results of partisanship, and quick to see goodwill. One has more happiness
in one's self in endeavouring to follow the things that make for peace. You can hardly imagine
how often I have been heated in private when opposed, as I have thought unjustly and superciliously,
and yet I have striven, and succeeded, I hope, in keeping down replies of the like kind. And
I know I have never lost by it." [1511]

While the painter Barry was at Rome, he involved himself, as was his wont, in furious quarrels
with the artists and dilettanti, about picture-painting and picture-dealing, upon which his
friend and countryman, Edmund Burke--always the generous friend of struggling merit--wrote
to him kindly and sensibly: "Believe me, dear Barry, that the arms with which the ill-dispositions
of the world are to be combated, and the qualities by which it is to be reconciled to us, and
we reconciled to it, are moderation, gentleness, a little indulgence to others, and a great
deal of distrust of ourselves; which are not qualities of a mean spirit, as some may possibly
think them, but virtues of a great and noble kind, and such as dignify our nature as much as
they contribute to our repose and fortune; for nothing can be so unworthy of a well-composed
soul as to pass away life in bickerings and litigations--in snarling and scuffling with every
one about us. We must be at peace with our species, if not for their sakes, at least very much
for our own." [1512]

No one knew the value of self-control better than the poet Burns, and no one could teach it
more eloquently to others; but when it came to practice, Burns was as weak as the weakest.
He could not deny himself the pleasure of uttering a harsh and clever sarcasm at another's
expense. One of his biographers observes of him, that it was no extravagant arithmetic to say
that for every ten jokes he made himself a hundred enemies. But this was not all. Poor Burns
exercised no control over his appetites, but freely gave them rein:

      "Thus thoughtless follies laid him low
             And stained his name."

Nor had he the self-denial to resist giving publicity to compositions originally intended for
the delight of the tap-room, but which continue secretly to sow pollution broadcast in the
minds of youth. Indeed, notwithstanding the many exquisite poems of this writer, it is not
saying too much to aver that his immoral writings have done far more harm than his purer writings
have done good; and that it would be better that all his writings should be destroyed and forgotten
provided his indecent songs could be destroyed with them.

The remark applies alike to Beranger, who has been styled "The Burns of France." Beranger was
of the same bright incisive genius; he had the same love of pleasure, the same love of popularity;
and while he flattered French vanity to the top of its bent, he also painted the vices most
loved by his countrymen with the pen of a master. Beranger's songs and Thiers' History probably
did more than anything else to reestablish the Napoleonic dynasty in France. But that was a
small evil compared with the moral mischief which many of Beranger's songs are calculated to
produce; for, circulating freely as they do in French households, they exhibit pictures of
nastiness and vice, which are enough to pollute and destroy a nation.

One of the vices before which Burns fell--and it may be said to be a master-vice, because it
is productive of so many other vices--was drinking. Not that he was a drunkard, but because
he yielded to the temptations of drink, with its degrading associations, and thereby lowered
and depraved his whole nature. [1513] But poor Burns did not stand alone; for, alas! of all
vices, the unrestrained appetite for drink was in his time, as it continues to be now, the
most prevalent, popular, degrading, and destructive.

Were it possible to conceive the existence of a tyrant who should compel his people to give
up to him one-third or more of their earnings, and require them at the same time to consume
a commodity that should brutalise and degrade them, destroy the peace and comfort of their
families, and sow in themselves the seeds of disease and premature death--what indignation
meetings, what monster processions there would be! 'What eloquent speeches and apostrophes
to the spirit of liberty!--what appeals against a despotism so monstrous and so unnatural!
And yet such a tyrant really exists amongst us--the tyrant of unrestrained appetite, whom no
force of arms, or voices, or votes can resist, while men are willing to be his slaves.

The power of this tyrant can only be overcome by moral means--by self-discipline, self-respect,
and self-control. There is no other way of withstanding the despotism of appetite in any of
its forms. No reform of institutions, no extended power of voting, no improved form of government,
no amount of scholastic instruction, can possibly elevate the character of a people who voluntarily
abandon themselves to sensual indulgence. The pursuit of ignoble pleasure is the degradation
of true happiness; it saps the morals, destroys the energies, and degrades the manliness and
robustness of individuals as of nations.

The courage of self-control exhibits itself in many ways, but in none more clearly than in
honest living. Men without the virtue of self-denial are not only subject to their own selfish
desires, but they are usually in bondage to others who are likeminded with themselves. What
others do, they do. They must live according to the artificial standard of their class, spending
like their neighbours, regardless of the consequences, at the same time that all are, perhaps,
aspiring after a style of living higher than their means. Each carries the others along with
him, and they have not the moral courage to stop. They cannot resist the temptation of living
high, though it may be at the expense of others; and they gradually become reckless of debt,
until it enthrals them. In all this there is great moral cowardice, pusillanimity, and want
of manly independence of character.

A rightminded man will shrink from seeming to be what he is not, or pretending to be richer
than he really is, or assuming a style of living that his circumstances will not justify. He
will have the courage to live honestly within his own means, rather than dishonestly upon the
means of other people; for he who incurs debts in striving to maintain a style of living beyond
his income, is in spirit as dishonest as the man who openly picks your pocket.

To many, this may seem an extreme view, but it will bear the strictest test. Living at the
cost of others is not only dishonesty, but it is untruthfulness in deed, as lying is in word.
The proverb of George Herbert, that "debtors are liars," is justified by experience. Shaftesbury
somewhere says that a restlessness to have something which we have not, and to be something
which we are not, is the root of all immorality. [1514] No reliance is to be placed on the
saying--a very dangerous one--of Mirabeau, that "LA PETITE MORALE ETAIT L'ENNEMIE DE LA GRANDE."
On the contrary, strict adherence to even the smallest details of morality is the foundation
of all manly and noble character.

The honourable man is frugal of his means, and pays his way honestly. He does not seek to pass
himself off as richer than he is, or, by running into debt, open an account with ruin. As that
man is not poor whose means are small, but whose desires are uncontrolled, so that man is rich
whose means are more than sufficient for his wants. When Socrates saw a great quantity of riches,
jewels, and furniture of great value, carried in pomp through Athens, he said, "Now do I see
how many things I do NOT desire." "I can forgive everything but selfishness," said Perthes.
"Even the narrowest circumstances admit of greatness with reference to 'mine and thine'; and
none but the very poorest need fill their daily life with thoughts of money, if they have but
prudence to arrange their housekeeping within the limits of their income."

A man may be indifferent to money because of higher considerations, as Faraday was, who sacrificed
wealth to pursue science; but if he would have the enjoyments that money can purchase, he must
honestly earn it, and not live upon the earnings of others, as those do who habitually incur
debts which they have no means of paying. When Maginn, always drowned in debt, was asked what
he paid for his wine, he replied that he did not know, but he believed they "put something
down in a book." [1515]

This "putting-down in a book" has proved the ruin of a great many weakminded people, who cannot
resist the temptation of taking things upon credit which they have not the present means of
paying for; and it would probably prove of great social benefit if the law which enables creditors
to recover debts contracted under certain circumstances were altogether abolished. But, in
the competition for trade, every encouragement is given to the incurring of debt, the creditor
relying upon the law to aid him in the last extremity. When Sydney Smith once went into a new
neighbourhood, it was given out in the local papers that he was a man of high connections,
and he was besought on all sides for his "custom." But he speedily undeceived his new neighbours.
"We are not great people at all," he said: "we are only common honest people--people that pay
our debts."

Hazlitt, who was a thoroughly honest though rather thriftless man, speaks of two classes of
persons, not unlike each other--those who cannot keep their own money in their hands, and those
who cannot keep their hands from other people's. The former are always in want of money, for
they throw it away on any object that first presents itself, as if to get rid of it; the latter
make away with what they have of their own, and are perpetual borrowers from all who will lend
to them; and their genius for borrowing, in the long run, usually proves their ruin.

Sheridan was one of such eminent unfortunates. He was impulsive and careless in his expenditure,
borrowing money, and running into debt with everybody who would trust him. When he stood for
Westminster, his unpopularity arose chiefly from his general indebtedness. "Numbers of poor
people," says Lord Palmerston in one of his letters, "crowded round the hustings, demanding
payment for the bills he owed them." In the midst of all his difficulties, Sheridan was as
lighthearted as ever, and cracked many a good joke at his creditors' expense. Lord Palmerston
was actually present at the dinner given by him, at which the sheriff's in possession were
dressed up and officiated as waiters

Yet however loose Sheridan's morality may have been as regarded his private creditors, he was
honest so far as the public money was concerned. Once, at dinner, at which Lord Byron happened
to be present, an observation happened to be made as to the sturdiness of the Whigs in resisting
office, and keeping to their principles--on which Sheridan turned sharply and said: "Sir, it
is easy for my Lord this, or Earl that, or the Marquis of t'other, with thousands upon thousands
a year, some of it either presently derived or inherited in sinecure or acquisitions from the
public money, to boast of their patriotism, and keep aloof from temptation; but they do not
know from what temptation those have kept aloof who had equal pride, at least equal talents,
and not unequal passions, and nevertheless knew not, in the course of their lives, what it
was to have a shilling of their own." And Lord Byron adds, that, in saying this, Sheridan wept.
[1516]

The tone of public morality in money-matters was very low in those days. Political peculation
was not thought discreditable; and heads of parties did not hesitate to secure the adhesion
of their followers by a free use of the public money. They were generous, but at the expense
of others--like that great local magnate, who,

         "Out of his great bounty,
      Built a bridge at the expense of the county."

When Lord Cornwallis was appointed Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, he pressed upon Colonel Napier,
the father of THE Napiers, the comptrollership of army accounts. "I want," said his Lordship,
"AN HONEST MAN, and this is the only thing I have been able to wrest from the harpies around me."

It is said that Lord Chatham was the first to set the example of disdaining to govern by petty
larceny; and his great son was alike honest in his administration. While millions of money
were passing through Pitt's hands, he himself was never otherwise than poor; and he died poor.
Of all his rancorous libellers, not one ever ventured to call in question his honesty.

In former times, the profits of office were sometimes enormous. When Audley, the famous annuity-monger
of the sixteenth century, was asked the value of an office which he had purchased in the Court
of Wards, he replied:--"Some thousands to any one who wishes to get to heaven immediately;
twice as much to him who does not mind being in purgatory; and nobody knows what to him who
is not afraid of the devil."

Sir Walter Scott was a man who was honest to the core of his nature and his strenuous and determined
efforts to pay his debts, or rather the debts of the firm with which he had become involved,
has always appeared to us one of the grandest things in biography. When his publisher and printer
broke down, ruin seemed to stare him in the face. There was no want of sympathy for him in
his great misfortune, and friends came forward who offered to raise money enough to enable
him to arrange with his creditors. "No! "said he, proudly; "this right hand shall work it all
off!" "If we lose everything else," he wrote to a friend, "we will at least keep our honour
unblemished." [1517] While his health was already becoming undermined by overwork, he went
on "writing like a tiger," as he himself expressed it, until no longer able to wield a pen;
and though he paid the penalty of his supreme efforts with his life, he nevertheless saved
his honour and his self-respect.

Everybody knows bow Scott threw off 'Woodstock,' the 'Life of Napoleon' [15which he thought
would be his death [1518]], articles for the 'Quarterly,' 'Chronicles of the Canongate,' 'Prose
Miscellanies,' and 'Tales of a Grandfather'--all written in the midst of pain, sorrow, and
ruin. The proceeds of those various works went to his creditors. If I achieve my task, I shall
have the thanks of all concerned, and the approbation of my own conscience." [1519]

And then followed more articles, memoirs, and even sermons--'The Fair Maid of Perth,' a completely
revised edition of his novels, 'Anne of Geierstein,' and more 'Tales of a Grandfather'--until
he was suddenly struck down by paralysis. But he had no sooner recovered sufficient strength
to be able to hold a pen, than we find him again at his desk writing the 'Letters on Demonology
and Witchcraft,' a volume of Scottish History for 'Lardner's Cyclopaedia,' and a fourth series
of 'Tales of a Grandfather' in his French History. In vain his doctors told him to give up
work; he would not be dissuaded. "As for bidding me not work," he said to Dr. Abercrombie,
"Molly might just as well put the kettle on the fire and say, 'Now, kettle, don't boil;'" to
which he added, "If I were to be idle I should go mad!"

By means of the profits realised by these tremendous efforts, Scott saw his debts in course
of rapid diminution, and he trusted that, after a few more years' work, he would again be a
free man. But it was not to be. He went on turning out such works as his 'Count Robert of Paris'
with greatly impaired skill, until he was prostrated by another and severer attack of palsy.
He now felt that the plough was nearing the end of the furrow; his physical strength was gone;
he was "not quite himself in all things," and yet his courage and perseverance never failed.
"I have suffered terribly," he wrote in his Diary, "though rather in body than in mind, and
I often wish I could lie down and sleep without waking. But I WILL FIGHT IT OUT IF I CAN."
He again recovered sufficiently to be able to write 'Castle Dangerous,' though the cunning
of the workman's hand had departed. And then there was his last tour to Italy in search of
rest and health, during which, while at Naples, in spite of all remonstrances, he gave several
hours every morning to the composition of a new novel, which, however, has not seen the light.

Scott returned to Abbotsford to die. "I have seen much," he said on his return, "but nothing
like my own house--give me one turn more." One of the last things he uttered, in one of his
lucid intervals, was worthy of him. His last injunction to his son-in-law was: "Lockhart, I
may have but a minute to speak to you. My dear, be virtuous--be religious--be a good man. Nothing
else will give you any comfort when you come to lie here."

The devoted conduct of Lockhart himself was worthy of his great relative. The 'Life of Scott,'
which he afterwards wrote, occupied him several years, and was a remarkably successful work.
Yet he himself derived no pecuniary advantage from it; handing over the profits of the whole
undertaking to Sir Walter's creditors in payment of debts which he was in no way responsible,
but influenced entirely by a spirit of honour, of regard for the memory of the illustrious dead.

CHAPTER VII.--DUTY--TRUTHFULNESS.

     "I slept, and dreamt that life was Beauty; I woke, and found
     that life was Duty."

     "Duty! wondrous thought, that workest neither by fond
     insinuation, flattery, nor by any threat, but merely by
     holding up thy naked law in the soul, and so extorting for
     thyself always reverence, if not always obedience; before
     whom all appetites are dumb, however secretly they rebel"--
     KANT.

            "How happy is he born and taught,
              That serveth not another's will!

          "His nay was nay without recall;
             His yea was yea, and powerful all;
          He gave his yea with careful heed,
            His thoughts and words were well agreed;
          His word, his bond and seal."
                     INSCRIPTION ON BARON STEIN'S TOMB.

The voice of conscience speaks in duty done; and without its regulating and controlling influence,
the brightest and greatest intellect may be merely as a light that leads astray. Conscience
sets a man upon his feet, while his will holds him upright. Conscience is the moral governor
of the heart--the governor of right action, of right thought, of right faith, of right life--and
only through its dominating influence can the noble and upright character be fully developed.

The conscience, however, may speak never so loudly, but without energetic will it may speak
in vain. The will is free to choose between the right course and the wrong one, but the choice
is nothing unless followed by immediate and decisive action. If the sense of duty be strong,
and the course of action clear, the courageous will, upheld by the conscience, enables a man
to proceed on his course bravely, and to accomplish his purposes in the face of all opposition
and difficulty. And should failure be the issue, there will remain at least this satisfaction,
that it has been in the cause of duty.

"Be and continue poor, young man," said Heinzelmann, "while others around you grow rich by
fraud and disloyalty; be without place or power while others beg their way upwards; bear the
pain of disappointed hopes, while others gain the accomplishment of theirs by flattery; forego
the gracious pressure of the hand, for which others cringe and crawl. Wrap yourself in your
own virtue, and seek a friend and your daily bread. If you have in your own cause grown gray
with unbleached honour, bless God and die!"

Men inspired by high principles are often required to sacrifice all that they esteem and love
rather than fail in their duty. The old English idea of this sublime devotion to duty was expressed
by the loyalist poet to his sweetheart, on taking up arms for his sovereign:--

          "I could love thee, dear, so much,
          Loved I not honour more." [161]

And Sertorius has said: "The man who has any dignity of character, should conquer with honour,
and not use any base means even to save his life." So St. Paul, inspired by duty and faith,
declared himself as not only "ready to be bound, but to die at Jerusalem."

When the Marquis of Pescara was entreated by the princes of Italy to desert the Spanish cause,
to which he was in honour bound, his noble wife, Vittoria Colonna, reminded him of his duty.
She wrote to him: "Remember your honour, which raises you above fortune and above kings; by
that alone, and not by the splendour of titles, is glory acquired--that glory which it will
be your happiness and pride to transmit unspotted to your posterity." Such was the dignified
view which she took of her husband's honour; and when he fell at Pavia, though young and beautiful,
and besought by many admirers, she betook herself to solitude, that she might lament over her
husband's loss and celebrate his exploits. [162]

To live really, is to act energetically. Life is a battle to be fought valiantly. Inspired
by high and honourable resolve, a man must stand to his post, and die there, if need be. Like
the old Danish hero, his determination should be, "to dare nobly, to will strongly, and never
to falter in the path of duty." The power of will, be it great or small, which God has given
us, is a Divine gift; and we ought neither to let it perish for want of using on the one hand,
nor profane it by employing it for ignoble purposes on the other. Robertson, of Brighton, has
truly said, that man's real greatness consists not in seeking his own pleasure, or fame, or
advancement--"not that every one shall save his own life, not that every man shall seek his
own glory--but that every man shall do his own duty."

What most stands in the way of the performance of duty, is irresolution, weakness of purpose,
and indecision. On the one side are conscience and the knowledge of good and evil; on the other
are indolence, selfishness, love of pleasure, or passion. The weak and ill-disciplined will
may remain suspended for a time between these influences; but at length the balance inclines
one way or the other, according as the will is called into action or otherwise. If it be allowed
to remain passive, the lower influence of selfishness or passion will prevail; and thus manhood
suffers abdication, individuality is renounced, character is degraded, and the man permits
himself to become the mere passive slave of his senses.

Thus, the power of exercising the will promptly, in obedience to the dictates of conscience,
and thereby resisting the impulses of the lower nature, is of essential importance in moral
discipline, and absolutely necessary for the development of character in its best forms. To
acquire the habit of well-doing, to resist evil propensities, to fight against sensual desires,
to overcome inborn selfishness, may require a long and persevering discipline; but when once
the practice of duty is learnt, it becomes consolidated in habit, and thence-forward is comparatively
easy.

The valiant good man is he who, by the resolute exercise of his freewill, has so disciplined
himself as to have acquired the habit of virtue; as the bad man is he who, by allowing his
freewill to remain inactive, and giving the bridle to his desires and passions, has acquired
the habit of vice, by which he becomes, at last, bound as by chains of iron.

A man can only achieve strength of purpose by the action of his own freewill. If he is to stand
erect, it must be by his own efforts; for he cannot be kept propped up by the help of others.
He is master of himself and of his actions. He can avoid falsehood, and be truthful; he can
shun sensualism, and be continent; he can turn aside from doing a cruel thing, and be benevolent
and forgiving. All these lie within the sphere of individual efforts, and come within the range
of self-discipline. And it depends upon men themselves whether in these respects they will
be free, pure, and good on the one hand; or enslaved, impure, and miserable on the other.

Among the wise sayings of Epictetus we find the following: "We do not choose our own parts
in life, and have nothing to do with those parts: our simple duty is confined to playing them
well. The slave may be as free as the consul; and freedom is the chief of blessings; it dwarfs
all others; beside it all others are insignificant; with it all others are needless; without
it no others are possible.... You must teach men that happiness is not where, in their blindness
and misery, they seek it. It is not in strength, for Myro and Ofellius were not happy; not
in wealth, for Croesus was not happy; not in power, for the Consuls were not happy; not in
all these together, for Nero and Sardanapulus and Agamemnon sighed and wept and tore their
hair, and were the slaves of circumstances and the dupes of semblances. It lies in yourselves;
in true freedom, in the absence or conquest of every ignoble fear; in perfect self-government;
and in a power of contentment and peace, and the even flow of life amid poverty, exile, disease,
and the very valley of the shadow of death." [163]

The sense of duty is a sustaining power even to a courageous man. It holds him upright, and
makes him strong. It was a noble saying of Pompey, when his friends tried to dissuade him from
embarking for Rome in a storm, telling him that he did so at the great peril of his life: "It
is necessary for me to go," he said; "it is not necessary for me to live." What it was right
that he should do, he would do, in the face of danger and in defiance of storms.

As might be expected of the great Washington, the chief motive power in his life was the spirit
of duty. It was the regal and commanding element in his character which gave it unity, compactness,
and vigour. This, I am sure, could not, and ought not, to be pleasing to you, and must have
lessened me considerably in my own esteem." Wellington's watchword, like Washington's, was
duty; and no man could be more loyal to it than he was. [165] "There is little or nothing,"
he once said, "in this life worth living for; but we can all of us go straight forward and
do our duty." None recognised more cheerfully than he did the duty of obedience and willing
service; for unless men can serve faithfully, they will not rule others wisely. There is no
motto that becomes the wise man better than ICH DIEN, "I serve;" and "They also serve who only
stand and wait."

When the mortification of an officer, because of his being appointed to a command inferior
to what he considered to be his merits, was communicated to the Duke, he said: "In the course
of my military career, I have gone from the command of a brigade to that of my regiment, and
from the command of an army to that of a brigade or a division, as I was ordered, and without
any feeling of mortification."

Whilst commanding the allied army in Portugal, the conduct of the native population did not
seem to Wellington to be either becoming or dutiful. "We have enthusiasm in plenty," he said,
"and plenty of cries of 'VIVA!' We have illuminations, patriotic songs, and FETES everywhere.
But what we want is, that each in his own station should do his duty faithfully, and pay implicit
obedience to legal authority."

This abiding ideal of duty seemed to be the governing principle of Wellington's character.
It was always uppermost in his mind, and directed all the public actions of his life. Nor did
it fail to communicate itself to those under him, who served him in the like spirit. When he
rode into one of his infantry squares at Waterloo, as its diminished numbers closed up to receive
a charge of French cavalry, he said to the men, "Stand steady, lads; think of what they will
say of us in England;" to which the men replied, "Never fear, sir--we know our duty."

Duty was also the dominant idea in Nelson's mind. The spirit in which he served his country
was expressed in the famous watchword, "England expects every man to do his duty," signalled
by him to the fleet before going into action at Trafalgar, as well as in the last words that
passed his lips,--"I have done my duty; I praise God for it!"

And Nelson's companion and friend--the brave, sensible, homely-minded Collingwood--he who,
as his ship bore down into the great sea-fight, said to his flag-captain, "Just about this
time our wives are going to church in England,"--Collingwood too was, like his commander, an
ardent devotee of duty. "Do your duty to the best of your ability," was the maxim which he
urged upon many young men starting on the voyage of life. To a midshipman he once gave the
following manly and sensible advice:- "You may depend upon it, that it is more in your own
power than in anybody else's to promote both your comfort and advancement. A strict and unwearied
attention to your duty, and a complacent and respectful behaviour, not only to your superiors
but to everybody, will ensure you their regard, and the reward will surely come; but if it
should not, I am convinced you have too much good sense to let disappointment sour you. Guard
carefully against letting discontent appear in you. It will be sorrow to your friends, a triumph
to your competitors, and cannot be productive of any good. Conduct yourself so as to deserve
the best that can come to you, and the consciousness of your own proper behaviour will keep
you in spirits if it should not come. Let it be your ambition to be foremost in all duty. Do
not be a nice observer of turns, but ever present yourself ready for everything, and, unless
your officers are very inattentive men, they will not allow others to impose more duty on you
than they should."

This devotion to duty is said to be peculiar to the English nation; and it has certainly more
or less characterised our greatest public men. Probably no commander of any other nation ever
went into action with such a signal flying as Nelson at Trafalgar--not "Glory," or "Victory,"
or "Honour," or "Country"--but simply "Duty!" How few are the nations willing to rally to such
a battle-cry!

Shortly after the wreck of the BIRKENHEAD off the coast of Africa, in which the officers and
men went down firing a FEU-DE-JOIE after seeing the women and children safely embarked in the
boats,--Robertson of Brighton, referring to the circumstance in one of his letters, said: "Yes!
Goodness, Duty, Sacrifice,--these are the qualities that England honours. She gapes and wonders
every now and then, like an awkward peasant, at some other things--railway kings, electro-biology,
and other trumperies; but nothing stirs her grand old heart down to its central deeps universally
and long, except the Right. She puts on her shawl very badly, and she is awkward enough in
a concert-room, scarce knowing a Swedish nightingale from a jackdaw; but--blessings large and
long upon her!--she knows how to teach her sons to sink like men amidst sharks and billows,
without parade, without display, as if Duty were the most natural thing in the world; and she
never mistakes long an actor for a hero, or a hero for an actor." [166]

It is a grand thing, after all, this pervading spirit of Duty in a nation; and so long as it
survives, no one need despair of its future. But when it has departed, or become deadened,
and been supplanted by thirst for pleasure, or selfish aggrandisement, or "glory"--then woe
to that nation, for its dissolution is near at hand!

If there be one point on which intelligent observers are agreed more than another as to the
cause of the late deplorable collapse of France as a nation, it was the utter absence of this
feeling of duty, as well as of truthfulness, from the mind, not only of the men, but of the
leaders of the French people. The unprejudiced testimony of Baron Stoffel, French military
attache at Berlin, before the war, is conclusive on this point. In his private report to the
Emperor, found at the Tuileries, which was written in August, 1869, about a year before the
outbreak of the war, Baron Stoffel pointed out that the highly-educated and disciplined German
people were pervaded by an ardent sense of duty, and did not think it beneath them to reverence
sincerely what was noble and lofty; whereas, in all respects, France presented a melancholy
contrast. There the people, having sneered at everything, had lost the faculty of respecting
anything, and virtue, family life, patriotism, honour, and religion, were represented to a
frivolous generation as only fitting subjects for ridicule. [167] Alas! how terribly has France
been punished for her sins against truth and duty!

Yet the time was, when France possessed many great men inspired by duty; but they were all
men of a comparatively remote past. The race of Bayard, Duguesclin, Coligny, Duquesne, Turenne,
Colbert, and Sully, seems to have died out and left no lineage. There has been an occasional
great Frenchman of modern times who has raised the cry of Duty; but his voice has been as that
of one crying in the wilderness. De Tocqueville was one of such; but, like all men of his stamp,
he was proscribed, imprisoned, and driven from public life. Writing on one occasion to his
friend Kergorlay, he said: "Like you, I become more and more alive to the happiness which consists
in the fulfilment of Duty. I believe there is no other so deep and so real. There is only one
great object in the world which deserves our efforts, and that is the good of mankind." [168]

Although France has been the unquiet spirit among the nations of Europe since the reign of
Louis XIV., there have from time to time been honest and faithful men who have lifted up their
voices against the turbulent warlike tendencies of the people, and not only preached, but endeavoured
to carry into practice, a gospel of peace. Of these, the Abbe de St.-Pierre was one of the
most courageous. He had even the boldness to denounce the wars of Louis XIV., and to deny that
monarch's right to the epithet of 'Great,' for which he was punished by expulsion from the
Academy. The Abbe was as enthusiastic an agitator for a system of international peace as any
member of the modern Society of Friends. As Joseph Sturge went to St. Petersburg to convert
the Emperor of Russia to his views, so the Abbe went to Utrecht to convert the Conference sitting
there, to his project for a Diet; to secure perpetual peace. Of course he was regarded as an
enthusiast, Cardinal Dubois characterising his scheme as "the dream of an honest man." Yet
the Abbe had found his dream in the Gospel; and in what better way could he exemplify the spirit
of the Master he served than by endeavouring to abate the horrors and abominations of war?
The Conference was an assemblage of men representing Christian States: and the Abbe merely
called upon them to put in practice the doctrines they professed to believe. It was of no use:
the potentates and their representatives turned to him a deaf ear.

The Abbe de St.-Pierre lived several hundred years too soon. But he determined that his idea
should not be lost, and in 1713 he published his 'Project of Perpetual Peace.' He there proposed
the formation of a European Diet, or Senate, to be composed of representatives of all nations,
before which princes should be bound, before resorting to arms, to state their grievances and
require redress. Writing about eighty years after the publication of this project, Volney asked:
"What is a people?--an individual of the society at large. What a war?--a duel between two
individual people. In what manner ought a society to act when two of its members fight?--Interfere,
and reconcile or repress them. In the days of the Abbe de St.-Pierre, this was treated as a
dream; but, happily for the human race, it begins to be realised." Alas for the prediction
of Volney! The twenty-five years that followed the date at which this passage was written,
were distinguished by more devastating and furious wars on the part of France than had ever
been known in the world before.

The Abbe was not, however, a mere dreamer. He was an active practical philanthropist and anticipated
many social improvements which have since become generally adopted. He was the original founder
of industrial schools for poor children, where they not only received a good education, but
learned some useful trade, by which they might earn an honest living when they grew up to manhood.
He advocated the revision and simplification of the whole code of laws--an idea afterwards
carried out by the First Napoleon. He wrote against duelling, against luxury, against gambling,
against monasticism, quoting the remark of Segrais, that "the mania for a monastic life is
the smallpox of the mind." He spent his whole income in acts of charity--not in almsgiving,
but in helping poor children, and poor men and women, to help themselves. His object always
was to benefit permanently those whom he assisted. He continued his love of truth and his freedom
of speech to the last. At the age of eighty he said: "If life is a lottery for happiness, my
lot has been one of the best." When on his deathbed, Voltaire asked him how he felt, to which
he answered, "As about to make a journey into the country." And in this peaceful frame of mind
he died. But so outspoken had St.-Pierre been against corruption in high places, that Maupertius,
his Successor at the Academy, was not permitted to pronounce his ELOGE; nor was it until thirty-two
years after his death that this honour was done to his memory by D'Alembert. The true and emphatic
epitaph of the good, truth-loving, truth-speaking Abbe was this--"HE LOVED MUCH!"

Duty is closely allied to truthfulness of character; and the dutiful man is, above all things,
truthful in his words as in his actions. He says and he does the right thing, in the right
way, and at the right time.

There is probably no saying of Lord Chesterfield that commends itself more strongly to the
approval of manly-minded men, than that it is truth that makes the success of the gentleman.
Clarendon, speaking of one of the noblest and purest gentlemen of his age, says of Falkland,
that he "was so severe an adorer of truth that he could as easily have given himself leave
to steal as to dissemble."

It was one of the finest things that Mrs. Hutchinson could say of her husband, that he was
a thoroughly truthful and reliable man: "He never professed the thing he intended not, nor
promised what he believed out of his power, nor failed in the performance of anything that
was in his power to fulfil." [169]

Another illustration of duty and truthfulness, as exhibited in the fulfilment of a promise,
may be added from the life of Blucher. When he was hastening with his army over bad roads to
the help of Wellington, on the 18th of June, 1815, he encouraged his troops by words and gestures.
"Forwards, children--forwards!" "It is impossible; it can't be done," was the answer. Again
and again he urged them. "Children, we must get on; you may say it can't be done, but it MUST
be done! I have promised my brother Wellington--PROMISED, do you hear? You wouldn't have me
BREAK MY WORD!" And it was done.

Truth is the very bond of society, without which it must cease to exist, and dissolve into
anarchy and chaos. A household cannot be governed by lying; nor can a nation. Sir Thomas Browne
once asked, "Do the devils lie?" "No," was his answer; "for then even hell could not subsist."
No considerations can justify the sacrifice of truth, which ought to be sovereign in all the
relations of life.

Of all mean vices, perhaps lying is the meanest. It is in some cases the offspring of perversity
and vice, and in many others of sheer moral cowardice. Yet many persons think so lightly of
it that they will order their servants to lie for them; nor can they feel surprised if, after
such ignoble instruction, they find their servants lying for themselves.

Sir Harry Wotton's description of an ambassador as "an honest man sent to lie abroad for the
benefit of his country," though meant as a satire, brought him into disfavour with James I.
when it became published; for an adversary quoted it as a principle of the king's religion.
That it was not Wotton's real view of the duty of an honest man, is obvious from the lines
quoted at the head of this chapter, on 'The Character of a Happy Life,' in which he eulogises
the man

          "Whose armour is his honest thought,
           And simple truth his utmost skill."

Untruthfulness exhibits itself in many other forms: in reticency on the one hand, or exaggeration
on the other; in disguise or concealment; in pretended concurrence in others opinions; in assuming
an attitude of conformity which is deceptive; in making promises, or allowing them to be implied,
which are never intended to be performed; or even in refraining from speaking the truth when
to do so is a duty. There are also those who are all things to all men, who say one thing and
do another, like Bunyan's Mr. Facing-both-ways; only deceiving themselves when they think they
are deceiving others--and who, being essentially insincere, fail to evoke confidence, and invariably
in the end turn out failures, if not impostors.

Others are untruthful in their pretentiousness, and in assuming merits which they do not really
possess. The truthful man is, on the contrary, modest, and makes no parade of himself and his
deeds. When Pitt was in his last illness, the news reached England of the great deeds of Wellington
in India. "The more I hear of his exploits," said Pitt, "the more I admire the modesty with
which he receives the praises he merits for them. He is the only man I ever knew that was not
vain of what he had done, and yet had so much reason to be so."

So it is said of Faraday by Professor Tyndall, that "pretence of all kinds, whether in life
or in philosophy, was hateful to him." Dr. Marshall Hall was a man of like spirit--courageously
truthful, dutiful, and manly. One of his most intimate friends has said of him that, wherever
he met with untruthfulness or sinister motive, he would expose it, saying--"I neither will,
nor can, give my consent to a lie." The question, "right or wrong," once decided in his own
mind, the right was followed, no matter what the sacrifice or the difficulty--neither expediency
nor inclination weighing one jot in the balance.

There was no virtue that Dr. Arnold laboured more sedulously to instil
into young men than the virtue of truthfulness, as being the manliest of
virtues, as indeed the very basis of all true manliness. He designated
truthfulness as "moral transparency," and he valued it more highly than
any other quality. When lying was detected, he treated it as a great
moral offence; but when a pupil made an assertion, he accepted it with
confidence. "If you say so, that is quite enough; OF COURSE I believe
your word." By thus trusting and believing them, he educated the young
in truthfulness; the boys at length coming to say to one another: "It's
a shame to tell Arnold a lie--he always believes one." [1611] Though we bring this illustration under the head of
Duty, it might equally have stood under that of Courage, Cheerfulness,
or Industry, for it is alike illustrative of these several qualities. "To none," said he,
"is life so sweet as to those who have lost all fear to die."
          A glorious bright to-morrow
      Endeth a weary life of pain and sorrow."

The life of George Wilson--so admirably and affectionately related by his sister--is probably
one of the most marvellous records of pain and longsuffering, and yet of persistent, noble,
and useful work, that is to be found in the whole history of literature. His entire career
was indeed but a prolonged illustration of the lines which he himself addressed to his deceased
friend, Dr. John Reid, a likeminded man, whose memoir he wrote:--

         "Thou wert a daily lesson
            Of courage, hope, and faith;
          We wondered at thee living,
            We envy thee thy death.

          Thou wert so meek and reverent,
            So resolute of will,
          So bold to bear the uttermost,
            And yet so calm and still."

CHAPTER VIII.--TEMPER.

      "Temper is nine-tenths of Christianity."--BISHOP WILSON.

        "Heaven is a temper, not a place."--DR. CHALMERS.

    "Even Power itself hath not one-half the might of Gentleness"
                                                  --LEIGH HUNT.

It has been said that men succeed in life quite as much by their temper as by their talents.
However this may be, it is certain that their happiness in life depends mainly upon their equanimity
of disposition, their patience and forbearance, and their kindness and thoughtfulness for those
about them. It is really true what Plato says, that in seeking the good of others we find our own.

There are some natures so happily constituted that they can find good in everything. There
is no calamity so great but they can educe comfort or consolation from it--no sky so black
but they can discover a gleam of sunshine issuing through it from some quarter or another;
and if the sun be not visible to their eyes, they at least comfort themselves with the thought
that it IS there, though veiled from them for some good and wise purpose.

Such happy natures are to be envied. They have a beam in the eye--a beam of pleasure, gladness,
religious cheerfulness, philosophy, call it what you will. Sunshine is about their hearts,
and their mind gilds with its own hues all that it looks upon. When they have burdens to bear,
they bear them cheerfully--not repining, nor fretting, nor wasting their energies in useless
lamentation, but struggling onward manfully, gathering up such flowers as lie along their path.

Let it not for a moment be supposed that men such as those we speak of are weak and unreflective.
The largest and most comprehensive natures are generally also the most cheerful, the most loving,
the most hopeful, the most trustful. It is the wise man, of large vision, who is the quickest
to discern the moral sunshine gleaming through the darkest cloud. In present evil he sees prospective
good; in pain, he recognises the effort of nature to restore health; in trials, he finds correction
and discipline; and in sorrow and suffering, he gathers courage, knowledge, and the best practical
wisdom.

When Jeremy Taylor had lost all--when his house had been plundered, and his family driven out-of-doors,
and all his worldly estate had been sequestrated--he could still write thus: "I am fallen into
the hands of publicans and sequestrators, and they have taken all from me; what now? Let me
look about me. They have left me the sun and moon, a loving wife, and many friends to pity
me, and some to relieve me; and I can still discourse, and, unless I list, they have not taken
away my merry countenance and my cheerful spirit, and a good conscience; they have still left
me the providence of God, and all the promises of the Gospel, and my religion, and my hopes
of heaven, and my charity to them, too; and still I sleep and digest, I eat and drink, I read
and meditate.... And he that hath so many causes of joy, and so great, is very much in love
with sorrow and peevishness, who loves all these pleasures, and chooses to sit down upon his
little handful of thorns." [171]

Although cheerfulness of disposition is very much a matter of inborn temperament, it is also
capable of being trained and cultivated like any other habit. We may make the best of life,
or we may make the worst of it; and it depends very much upon ourselves whether we extract
joy or misery from it. There are always two sides of life on which we can look, according as
we choose--the bright side or the gloomy. We can bring the power of the will to bear in making
the choice, and thus cultivate the habit of being happy or the reverse. We can encourage the
disposition of looking at the brightest side of things, instead of the darkest. And while we
see the cloud, let us not shut our eyes to the silver lining.

The beam in the eye sheds brightness, beauty, and joy upon life in all its phases. It shines
upon coldness, and warms it; upon suffering, and comforts it; upon ignorance, and enlightens
it; upon sorrow, and cheers it. The beam in the eye gives lustre to intellect, and brightens
beauty itself. Without it the sunshine of life is not felt, flowers bloom in vain, the marvels
of heaven and earth are not seen or acknowledged, and creation is but a dreary, lifeless, soulless
blank.

While cheerfulness of disposition is a great source of enjoyment in life, it is also a great
safeguard of character. A devotional writer of the present day, in answer to the question,
How are we to overcome temptations? says: "Cheerfulness is the first thing, cheerfulness is
the second, and cheerfulness is the third." It furnishes the best soil for the growth of goodness
and virtue. It gives brightness of heart and elasticity of spirit. It is the companion of charity,
the nurse of patience the mother of wisdom. It is also the best of moral and mental tonics.
"The best cordial of all," said Dr. Marshall Hall to one of his patients, "is cheerfulness."
And Solomon has said that "a merry heart doeth good like a medicine." When Luther was once
applied to for a remedy against melancholy, his advice was: "Gaiety and courage--innocent gaiety,
and rational honourable courage--are the best medicine for young men, and for old men, too;
for all men against sad thoughts." [172] Next to music, if not before it, Luther loved children
and flowers. The great gnarled man had a heart as tender as a woman's.

Cheerfulness is also an excellent wearing quality. It has been called the bright weather of
the heart. It gives harmony of soul, and is a perpetual song without words. It is tantamount
to repose. It enables nature to recruit its strength; whereas worry and discontent debilitate
it, involving constant wear-and-tear. How is it that we see such men as Lord Palmerston growing
old in harness, working on vigorously to the end? Mainly through equanimity of temper and habitual
cheerfulness. They have educated themselves in the habit of endurance, of not being easily
provoked, of bearing and forbearing, of hearing harsh and even unjust things said of them without
indulging in undue resentment, and avoiding worreting, petty, and self-tormenting cares. An
intimate friend of Lord Palmerston, who observed him closely for twenty years, has said that
he never saw him angry, with perhaps one exception; and that was when the ministry responsible
for the calamity in Affghanistan, of which he was one, were unjustly accused by their opponents
of falsehood, perjury, and wilful mutilation of public documents.

So far as can be learnt from biography, men of the greatest genius have been for the most part
cheerful, contented men--not eager for reputation, money, or power--but relishing life, and
keenly susceptible of enjoyment, as we find reflected in their works. Such seem to have been
Homer, Horace, Virgil, Montaigne, Shakspeare, Cervantes. Healthy serene cheerfulness is apparent
in their great creations. Among the same class of cheerful-minded men may also be mentioned
Luther, More, Bacon, Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, and Michael Angelo. Perhaps they were happy
because constantly occupied, and in the pleasantest of all work--that of creating out of the
fulness and richness of their great minds.

Milton, too, though a man of many trials and sufferings, must have been a man of great cheerfulness
and elasticity of nature. Though overtaken by blindness, deserted by friends, and fallen upon
evil days--"darkness before and danger's voice behind"--yet did he not bate heart or hope,
but "still bore up and steered right onward."

Henry Fielding was a man borne down through life by debt, and difficulty, and bodily suffering;
and yet Lady Mary Wortley Montague has said of him that, by virtue of his cheerful disposition,
she was persuaded he "had known more happy moments than any person on earth."

Dr. Johnson, through all his trials and sufferings and hard fights with fortune, was a courageous
and cheerful-natured man. He manfully made the best of life, and tried to be glad in it. Once,
when a clergyman was complaining of the dulness of society in the country, saying "they only
talk of runts"

Johnson was of opinion that a man grew better as he grew older, and that his nature mellowed
with age. This is certainly a much more cheerful view of human nature than that of Lord Chesterfield,
who saw life through the eyes of a cynic, and held that "the heart never grows better by age:
it only grows harder." But both sayings may be true according to the point from which life
is viewed, and the temper by which a man is governed; for while the good, profiting by experience,
and disciplining themselves by self-control, will grow better, the ill-conditioned, uninfluenced
by experience, will only grow worse.

Sir Walter Scott was a man full of the milk of human kindness. Everybody loved him. He was
never five minutes in a room ere the little pets of the family, whether dumb or lisping, had
found out his kindness for all their generation. Scott related to Captain Basil Hall an incident
of his boyhood which showed the tenderness of his nature. One day, a dog coming towards him,
he took up a big stone, threw it, and hit the dog. The poor creature had strength enough left
to crawl up to him and lick his feet, although he saw its leg was broken. The incident, he
said, had given him the bitterest remorse in his after-life; but he added, "An early circumstance
of that kind, properly reflected on, is calculated to have the best effect on one's character
throughout life."

"Give me an honest laugher," Scott would say; and he himself laughed the heart's laugh. He
had a kind word for everybody, and his kindness acted all round him like a contagion, dispelling
the reserve and awe which his great name was calculated to inspire. "He'll come here," said
the keeper of the ruins of Melrose Abbey to Washington Irving--"he'll come here some-times,
wi' great folks in his company, and the first I'll know of it is hearing his voice calling
out, 'Johnny! Johnny Bower!' And when I go out I'm sure to be greeted wi' a joke or a pleasant
word. He'll stand and crack and laugh wi' me, just like an auld wife; and to think that of
a man that has SUCH AN AWFU' KNOWLEDGE O' HISTORY!"

Dr. Arnold was a man of the same hearty cordiality of manner--full of human sympathy. There
was not a particle of affectation or pretence of condescension about him. "I never knew such
a humble man as the doctor," said the parish clerk at Laleham; "he comes and shakes us by the
hand as if he was one of us." "He used to come into my house," said an old woman near Fox How,
"and talk to me as if I were a lady."

Sydney Smith was another illustration of the power of cheerfulness. He was ever ready to look
on the bright side of things; the darkest cloud had to him its silver lining. Whether working
as country curate, or as parish rector, he was always kind, laborious, patient, and exemplary;
exhibiting in every sphere of life the spirit of a Christian, the kindness of a pastor, and
the honour of a gentleman. In his leisure he employed his pen on the side of justice, freedom,
education, toleration, emancipation; and his writings, though full of common-sense and bright
humour, are never vulgar; nor did he ever pander to popularity or prejudice. His good spirits,
thanks to his natural vivacity and stamina of constitution, never forsook him; and in his old
age, when borne down by disease, he wrote to a friend: "I have gout, asthma, and seven other
maladies, but am otherwise very well." In one of the last letters he wrote to Lady Carlisle,
he said: "If you hear of sixteen or eighteen pounds of flesh wanting an owner, they belong
to me. I look as if a curate had been taken out of me."

Great men of science have for the most part been patient, laborious, cheerful-minded men. Such
were Galileo, Descartes, Newton, and Laplace. Euler the mathematician, one of the greatest
of natural philosophers, was a distinguished instance. Towards the close of his life he became
completely blind; but he went on writing as cheerfully as before, supplying the want of sight
by various ingenious mechanical devices, and by the increased cultivation of his memory, which
became exceedingly tenacious. His chief pleasure was in the society of his grandchildren, to
whom he taught their little lessons in the intervals of his severer studies.

In like manner, Professor Robison of Edinburgh, the first editor of the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica,'
when disabled from work by a lingering and painful disorder, found his chief pleasure in the
society of his grandchild. "I am infinitely delighted," he wrote to James Watt, "with observing
the growth of its little soul, and particularly with its numberless instincts, which formerly
passed unheeded. I thank the French theorists for more forcibly directing my attention to the
finger of God, which I discern in every awkward movement and every wayward whim. They are all
guardians of his life and growth and power. I regret indeed that I have not time to make infancy
and the development of its powers my sole study."

One of the sorest trials of a man's temper and patience was that which befell Abauzit, the
natural philosopher, while residing at Geneva; resembling in many respects a similar calamity
which occurred to Newton, and which he bore with equal resignation. Amongst other things, Abauzit
devoted much study to the barometer and its variations, with the object of deducing the general
laws which regulated atmospheric pressure. During twenty-seven years he made numerous observations
daily, recording them on sheets prepared for the purpose. One day, when a new servant was installed
in the house, she immediately proceeded to display her zeal by "putting things to-rights."
Abauzit's study, amongst other rooms, was made tidy and set in order. When he entered it, he
asked of the servant, "What have you done with the paper that was round the barometer?" "Oh,
sir," was the reply, "it was so dirty that I burnt it, and put in its place this paper, which
you will see is quite new." Abauzit crossed his arms, and after some moments of internal struggle,
he said, in a tone of calmness and resignation: "You have destroyed the results of twenty-seven
years labour; in future touch nothing whatever in this room."

The study of natural history more than that of any other branch of science, seems to be accompanied
by unusual cheerfulness and equanimity of temper on the part of its votaries; the result of
which is, that the life of naturalists is on the whole more prolonged than that of any other
class of men of science. A member of the Linnaean Society has informed us that of fourteen
members who died in 1870, two were over ninety, five were over eighty, and two were over seventy.
The average age of all the members who died in that year was seventy-five.

Adanson, the French botanist, was about seventy years old when the Revolution broke out, and
amidst the shock he lost everything--his fortune, his places, and his gardens. But his patience,
courage, and resignation never forsook him. He became reduced to the greatest straits, and
even wanted food and clothing; yet his ardour of investigation remained the same. Once, when
the Institute invited him, as being one of its oldest members, to assist at a SEANCE, his answer
was that he regretted he could not attend for want of shoes. "It was a touching sight," says
Cuvier, "to see the poor old man, bent over the embers of a decaying fire, trying to trace
characters with a feeble hand on the little bit of paper which he held, forgetting all the
pains of life in some new idea in natural history, which came to him like some beneficent fairy
to cheer him in his loneliness." The Directory eventually gave him a small pension, which Napoleon
doubled; and at length, easeful death came to his relief in his seventy-ninth year. A clause
in his will, as to the manner of his funeral, illustrates the character of the man. He directed
that a garland of flowers, provided by fifty-eight families whom he had established in life,
should be the only decoration of his coffin--a slight but touching image of the more durable
monument which he had erected for himself in his works.

Such are only a few instances, of the cheerful-working-ness of great men, which might, indeed,
be multiplied to any extent. All large healthy natures are cheerful as well as hopeful. Their
example is also contagious and diffusive, brightening and cheering all who come within reach
of their influence. It was said of Sir John Malcolm, when he appeared in a saddened camp in
India, that "it was like a gleam of sunlight,.... no man left him without a smile on his face.
He was 'boy Malcolm' still. It was impossible to resist the fascination of his genial presence."
[173]

There was the same joyousness of nature about Edmund Burke. Once at a dinner at Sir Joshua
Reynolds's, when the conversation turned upon the suitability of liquors for particular temperaments,
Johnson said, "Claret is for boys, port for men, and brandy for heroes." And so it is, that
there are old young men, and young old men--some who are as joyous and cheerful as boys in
their old age, and others who are as morose and cheerless as saddened old men while still in
their boyhood.

In the presence of some priggish youths, we have heard a cheerful old man declare that, apparently,
there would soon be nothing but "old boys" left. Cheerfulness, being generous and genial, joyous
and hearty, is never the characteristic of prigs. Goethe used to exclaim of goody-goody persons,
"Oh! if they had but the heart to commit an absurdity!" This was when he thought they wanted
heartiness and nature. "Pretty dolls!" was his expression when speaking of them, and turning away.

The true basis of cheerfulness is love, hope, and patience. Love evokes love, and begets loving
kindness. Love cherishes hopeful and generous thoughts of others. It is charitable, gentle,
and truthful. It is a discerner of good. It turns to the brightest side of things, and its
face is ever directed towards happiness. It sees "the glory in the grass, the sunshine on the
flower." It encourages happy thoughts, and lives in an atmosphere of cheerfulness. It costs
nothing, and yet is invaluable; for it blesses its possessor, and grows up in abundant happiness
in the bosoms of others. Even its sorrows are linked with pleasures, and its very tears are sweet.

Bentham lays it down as a principle, that a man becomes rich in his own stock of pleasures
in proportion to the amount he distributes to others. His kindness will evoke kindness, and
his happiness be increased by his own benevolence. "Kind words," he says, "cost no more than
unkind ones. Kind words produce kind actions, not only on the part of him to whom they are
addressed, but on the part of him by whom they are employed; and this not incidentally only,
but habitually, in virtue of the principle of association.".... "It may indeed happen, that
the effort of beneficence may not benefit those for whom it was intended; but when wisely directed,
it MUST benefit the person from whom it emanates. Good and friendly conduct may meet with an
unworthy and ungrateful return; but the absence of gratitude on the part of the receiver cannot
destroy the self-approbation which recompenses the giver, and we may scatter the seeds of courtesy
and kindliness around us at so little expense. Some of them will inevitably fall on good ground,
and grow up into benevolence in the minds of others; and all of them will bear fruit of happiness
in the bosom whence they spring. Once blest are all the virtues always; twice blest sometimes."
[174]

The poet Rogers used to tell a story of a little girl, a great favourite with every one who
knew her. Some one said to her, "Why does everybody love you so much?" She answered, "I think
it is because I love everybody so much." This little story is capable of a very wide application;
for our happiness as human beings, generally speaking, will be found to be very much in proportion
to the number of things we love, and the number of things that love us. And the greatest worldly
success, however honestly achieved, will contribute comparatively little to happiness, unless
it be accompanied by a lively benevolence towards every human being.

Kindness is indeed a great power in the world. Leigh Hunt has truly said that "Power itself
hath not one half the might of gentleness." Men are always best governed through their affections.
There is a French proverb which says that, "LES HOMMES SE PRENNENT PAR LA DOUCEUR," and a coarser
English one, to the effect that "More wasps are caught by honey than by vinegar." "Every act
of kindness," says Bentham, "is in fact an exercise of power, and a stock of friendship laid
up; and why should not power exercise itself in the production of pleasure as of pain?"

Kindness does not consist in gifts, but in gentleness and generosity of spirit. Men may give
their money which comes from the purse, and withhold their kindness which comes from the heart.
The kindness that displays itself in giving money, does not amount to much, and often does
quite as much harm as good; but the kindness of true sympathy, of thoughtful help, is never
without beneficent results.

The good temper that displays itself in kindness must not be confounded with softness or silliness.
In its best form, it is not a merely passive but an active condition of being. It is not by
any means indifferent, but largely sympathetic. It does not characterise the lowest and most
gelatinous forms of human life, but those that are the most highly organized. True kindness
cherishes and actively promotes all reasonable instrumentalities for doing practical good in
its own time; and, looking into futurity, sees the same spirit working on for the eventual
elevation and happiness of the race.

It is the kindly-dispositioned men who are the active men of the world, while the selfish and
the sceptical, who have no love but for themselves, are its idlers. Buffon used to say, that
he would give nothing for a young man who did not begin life with an enthusiasm of some sort.
It showed that at least he had faith in something good, lofty, and generous, even if unattainable.

Egotism, scepticism, and selfishness are always miserable companions in life, and they are
especially unnatural in youth. The egotist is next-door to a fanatic. Constantly occupied with
self, he has no thought to spare for others. He refers to himself in all things, thinks of
himself, and studies himself, until his own little self becomes his own little god.

Worst of all are the grumblers and growlers at fortune--who find that "whatever is is wrong,"
and will do nothing to set matters right--who declare all to be barren "from Dan even to Beersheba."
These grumblers are invariably found the least efficient helpers in the school of life. As
the worst workmen are usually the readiest to "strike," so the least industrious members of
society are the readiest to complain. The worst wheel of all is the one that creaks.

There is such a thing as the cherishing of discontent until the feeling becomes morbid. The
jaundiced see everything about them yellow. The ill-conditioned think all things awry, and
the whole world out-of-joint. All is vanity and vexation of spirit. The little girl in PUNCH,
who found her doll stuffed with bran, and forthwith declared everything to be hollow and wanted
to "go into a nunnery," had her counterpart in real life. Many full-grown people are quite
as morbidly unreasonable. There are those who may be said to "enjoy bad health;" they regard
it as a sort of property. They can speak of "MY headache"--"MY backache," and so forth, until
in course of time it becomes their most cherished possession. But perhaps it is the source
to them of much coveted sympathy, without which they might find themselves of comparatively
little importance in the world. "I'll tell it," said Smellfungus, "to the world." "You had
better tell it," said Sterne, "to your physician." [175]

St. Francis de Sales treats the same topic from the Christian's point of view. "How carefully,"
he says, "we should cherish the little virtues which spring up at the foot of the Cross!" When
the saint was asked, "What virtues do you mean?" he replied: "Humility, patience, meekness,
benignity, bearing one another's burden, condescension, softness of heart, cheerfulness, cordiality,
compassion, forgiving injuries, simplicity, candour--all, in short of that sort of little virtues.
They, like unobtrusive violets, love the shade; like them are sustained by dew; and though,
like them, they make little show, they shed a sweet odour on all around." [176]

And again he said: "If you would fall into any extreme, let it be on the side of gentleness.
The human mind is so constructed that it resists rigour, and yields to softness. A mild word
quenches anger, as water quenches the rage of fire; and by benignity any soil may be rendered
fruitful. Truth, uttered with courtesy, is heaping coals of fire on the head--or rather, throwing
roses in the face. How can we resist a foe whose weapons are pearls and diamonds?" [177]

Meeting evils by anticipation is not the way to overcome them. If we perpetually carry our
burdens about with us, they will soon bear us down under their load. When evil comes, we must
deal with it bravely and hopefully. What Perthes wrote to a young man, who seemed to him inclined
to take trifles as well as sorrows too much to heart, was doubtless good advice: "Go forward
with hope and confidence. This is the advice given thee by an old man, who has had a full share
of the burden and heat of life's day. We must ever stand upright, happen what may, and for
this end we must cheerfully resign ourselves to the varied influences of this many-coloured
life. You may call this levity, and you are partly right; for flowers and colours are but trifles
light as air, but such levity is a constituent portion of our human nature, without which it
would sink under the weight of time. While on earth we must still play with earth, and with
that which blooms and fades upon its breast. The consciousness of this mortal life being but
the way to a higher goal, by no means precludes our playing with it cheerfully; and, indeed,
we must do so, otherwise our energy in action will entirely fail." "If it were not for Hope,"
said Byron, "where would the Future be?--in hell! It is useless to say where the Present is,
for most of us know; and as for the Past, WHAT predominates in memory?--Hope baffled. ERGO,
in all human affairs it is Hope, Hope, Hope!" [179]

CHAPTER IX.--MANNER--ART.

     "We must be gentle, now we are gentlemen."--SHAKSPEARE.

          "Manners are not idle, but the fruit
           Of noble nature and of loyal mind."--TENNYSON.

     "Manners are often too much neglected; they are most
     important to men, no less than to women.... Life is too
     short to get over a bad manner; besides, manners are the
     shadows of virtues."--THE REV. SIDNEY SMITH.

Manner is one of the principal external graces of character. It is the ornament of action,
and often makes the commonest offices beautiful by the way in which it performs them. It is
a happy way of doing things, adorning even the smallest details of life, and contributing to
render it, as a whole, agreeable and pleasant.

Manner is not so frivolous or unimportant as some may think it to be; for it tends greatly
to facilitate the business of life, as well as to sweeten and soften social intercourse. "Virtue
itself," says Bishop Middleton, "offends, when coupled with a forbidding manner."

Manner has a good deal to do with the estimation in which men are held by the world; and it
has often more influence in the government of others than qualities of much greater depth and
substance. A manner at once gracious and cordial is among the greatest aids to success, and
many there are who fail for want of it. [181] For a great deal depends upon first impressions;
and these are usually favourable or otherwise according to a man's courteousness and civility.

While rudeness and gruffness bar doors and shut hearts, kindness and propriety of behaviour,
in which good manners consist, act as an "open sesame" everywhere. Doors unbar before them,
and they are a passport to the hearts of everybody, young and old.

There is a common saying that "Manners make the man;" but this is not so true as that "Man
makes the manners." A man may be gruff, and even rude, and yet be good at heart and of sterling
character; yet he would doubtless be a much more agreeable, and probably a much more useful
man, were he to exhibit that suavity of disposition and courtesy of manner which always gives
a finish to the true gentleman.

Mrs. Hutchinson, in the noble portraiture of her husband, to which we have already had occasion
to refer, thus describes his manly courteousness and affability of disposition:--"I cannot
say whether he were more truly magnanimous or less proud; he never disdained the meanest person,
nor flattered the greatest; he had a loving and sweet courtesy to the poorest, and would often
employ many spare hours with the commonest soldiers and poorest labourers; but still so ordering
his familiarity, that it never raised them to a contempt, but entertained still at the same
time a reverence and love of him." [182]

A man's manner, to a certain extent, indicates his character. It is the external exponent of
his inner nature. It indicates his taste, his feelings, and his temper, as well as the society
to which he has been accustomed. There is a conventional manner, which is of comparatively
little importance; but the natural manner, the outcome of natural gifts, improved by careful
self-culture, signifies a great deal.

Grace of manner is inspired by sentiment, which is a source of no slight enjoyment to a cultivated
mind. Viewed in this light, sentiment is of almost as much importance as talents and acquirements,
while it is even more influential in giving the direction to a man s tastes and character.
Sympathy is the golden key that unlocks the hearts of others. It not only teaches politeness
and courtesy, but gives insight and unfolds wisdom, and may almost be regarded as the crowning
grace of humanity.

Artificial rules of politeness are of very little use. What passes by the name of "Etiquette"
is often of the essence of unpoliteness and untruthfulness. It consists in a great measure
of posture-making, and is easily seen through. Even at best, etiquette is but a substitute
for good manners, though it is often but their mere counterfeit.

Good manners consist, for the most part, in courteousness and kindness. Politeness has been
described as the art of showing, by external signs, the internal regard we have for others.
But one may be perfectly polite to another without necessarily having a special regard for
him. Good manners are neither more nor less than beautiful behaviour.

The truest politeness comes of sincerity. It must be the outcome of the heart, or it will make
no lasting impression; for no amount of polish can dispense with truthfulness. The natural
character must be allowed to appear, freed of its angularities and asperities. Though politeness,
in its best form, should [18as St. Francis de Sales says] resemble water--"best when clearest,
most simple, and without taste,"--yet genius in a man will always cover many defects of manner,
and much will be excused to the strong and the original. Without genuineness and individuality,
human life would lose much of its interest and variety, as well as its manliness and robustness
of character.

True courtesy is kind. It exhibits itself in the disposition to contribute to the happiness
of others, and in refraining from all that may annoy them. It is grateful as well as kind,
and readily acknowledges kind actions. Curiously enough, Captain Speke found this quality of
character recognised even by the natives of Uganda on the shores of Lake Nyanza, in the heart
of Africa, where, he says. "Ingratitude, or neglecting to thank a person for a benefit conferred,
is punishable."

True politeness especially exhibits itself in regard for the personality of others. A man will
respect the individuality of another if he wishes to be respected himself. He will have due
regard for his views and opinions, even though they differ from his own. The well-mannered
man pays a compliment to another, and sometimes even secures his respect, by patiently listening
to him. He is simply tolerant and forbearant, and refrains from judging harshly; and harsh
judgments of others will almost invariably provoke harsh judgments of ourselves.

The unpolite impulsive man will, however, sometimes rather lose his friend than his joke. He
may surely be pronounced a very foolish person who secures another's hatred at the price of
a moment's gratification. It was a saying of Brunel the engineer--himself one of the kindest-natured
of men--that "spite and ill-nature are among the most expensive luxuries in life."

A sensible polite person does not assume to be better or wiser or richer than his neighbour.
He does not boast of his rank, or his birth, or his country; or look down upon others because
they have not been born to like privileges with himself. He does not brag of his achievements
or of his calling, or "talk shop" whenever he opens his mouth. On the contrary, in all that
he says or does, he will be modest, unpretentious, unassuming; exhibiting his true character
in performing rather than in boasting, in doing rather than in talking.

Want of respect for the feelings of others usually originates in selfishness, and issues in
hardness and repulsiveness of manner. It may not proceed from malignity so much as from want
of sympathy and want of delicacy--a want of that perception of, and attention to, those little
and apparently trifling things by which pleasure is given or pain occasioned to others. Indeed,
it may be said that in self-sacrificingness, so to speak, in the ordinary intercourse of life,
mainly consists the difference between being well and ill bred.

Without some degree of self-restraint in society, a man may be found almost insufferable. No
one has pleasure in holding intercourse with such a person, and he is a constant source of
annoyance to those about him. For want of self-restraint, many men are engaged all their lives
in fighting with difficulties of their own making, and rendering success impossible by their
own crossgrained ungentleness; whilst others, it may be much less gifted, make their way and
achieve success by simple patience, equanimity, and self-control.

It has been said that men succeed in life quite as much by their temper as by their talents.
However this may be, it is certain that their happiness depends mainly on their temperament,
especially upon their disposition to be cheerful; upon their complaisance, kindliness of manner,
and willingness to oblige others--details of conduct which are like the small-change in the
intercourse of life, and are always in request.

Men may show their disregard of others in various unpolite ways--as, for instance, by neglect
of propriety in dress, by the absence of cleanliness, or by indulging in repulsive habits.
The slovenly dirty person, by rendering himself physically disagreeable, sets the tastes and
feelings of others at defiance, and is rude and uncivil only under another form.

David Ancillon, a Huguenot preacher of singular attractiveness, who studied and composed his
sermons with the greatest care, was accustomed to say "that it was showing too little esteem
for the public to take no pains in preparation, and that a man who should appear on a ceremonial-day
in his nightcap and dressing-gown, could not commit a greater breach of civility."

The perfection of manner is ease--that it attracts no man's notice as such, but is natural
and unaffected. Artifice is incompatible with courteous frankness of manner. Rochefoucauld
has said that "nothing so much prevents our being natural as the desire of appearing so." Thus
we come round again to sincerity and truthfulness, which find their outward expression in graciousness,
urbanity, kindliness, and consideration for the feelings of others. The frank and cordial man
sets those about him at their ease. He warms and elevates them by his presence, and wins all
hearts. Thus manner, in its highest form, like character, becomes a genuine motive power.

"The love and admiration," says Canon Kingsley, "which that truly brave and loving man, Sir
Sydney Smith, won from every one, rich and poor, with whom he came in contact seems to have
arisen from the one fact, that without, perhaps, having any such conscious intention, he treated
rich and poor, his own servants and the noblemen his guests, alike, and alike courteously,
considerately, cheerfully, affectionately--so leaving a blessing, and reaping a blessing, wherever
he went."

Good manners are usually supposed to be the peculiar characteristic of persons gently born
and bred, and of persons moving in the higher rather than in the lower spheres of society.
And this is no doubt to a great extent true, because of the more favourable surroundings of
the former in early life. But there is no reason why the poorest classes should not practise
good manners towards each other as well as the richest.

Men who toil with their hands, equally with those who do not, may respect themselves and respect
one another; and it is by their demeanour to each other--in other words, by their manners--that
self-respect as well as mutual respect are indicated. There is scarcely a moment in their lives,
the enjoyment of which might not be enhanced by kindliness of this sort--in the workshop, in
the street, or at home. The civil workman will exercise increased power amongst his class,
and gradually induce them to imitate him by his persistent steadiness, civility, and kindness.
Thus Benjamin Franklin, when a working-man, is said to have reformed the habits of an entire
workshop.

One may be polite and gentle with very little money in his purse. Politeness goes far, yet
costs nothing. It is the cheapest of all commodities. It is the humblest of the fine arts,
yet it is so useful and so pleasure-giving, that it might almost be ranked amongst the humanities.

Every nation may learn something of others; and if there be one thing more than another that
the English working-class might afford to copy with advantage from their Continental neighbours,
it is their politeness. The French and Germans, of even the humblest classes, are gracious
in manner, complaisant, cordial, and well-bred. The foreign workman lifts his cap and respectfully
salutes his fellow-workman in passing. There is no sacrifice of manliness in this, but grace
and dignity. Even the lowest poverty of the foreign workpeople is not misery, simply because
it is cheerful. Though not receiving one-half the income which our working-classes do, they
do not sink into wretchedness and drown their troubles in drink; but contrive to make the best
of life, and to enjoy it even amidst poverty.

Good taste is a true economist. It may be practised on small means, and sweeten the lot of
labour as well as of ease. It is all the more enjoyed, indeed, when associated with industry
and the performance of duty. Even the lot of poverty is elevated by taste. It exhibits itself
in the economies of the household. It gives brightness and grace to the humblest dwelling.
It produces refinement, it engenders goodwill, and creates an atmosphere of cheerfulness. Thus
good taste, associated with kindliness, sympathy, and intelligence, may elevate and adorn even
the lowliest lot.

The first and best school of manners, as of character, is always the Home, where woman is the
teacher. The manners of society at large are but the reflex of the manners of our collective
homes, neither better nor worse. Yet, with all the disadvantages of ungenial homes, men may
practise self-culture of manner as of intellect, and learn by good examples to cultivate a
graceful and agreeable behaviour towards others. Most men are like so many gems in the rough,
which need polishing by contact with other and better natures, to bring out their full beauty
and lustre. Some have but one side polished, sufficient only to show the delicate graining
of the interior; but to bring out the full qualities of the gem needs the discipline of experience,
and contact with the best examples of character in the intercourse of daily life.

A good deal of the success of manner consists in tact, and it is because women, on the whole,
have greater tact than men, that they prove its most influential teachers. They have more self-restraint
than men, and are naturally more gracious and polite. They possess an intuitive quickness and
readiness of action, have a keener insight into character, and exhibit greater discrimination
and address. In matters of social detail, aptness and dexterity come to them like nature; and
hence well-mannered men usually receive their best culture by mixing in the society of gentle
and adroit women.

Tact is an intuitive art of manner, which carries one through a difficulty better than either
talent or knowledge. Talent is wealth: tact is ready-money."

The difference between a man of quick tact and of no tact whatever was exemplified in an interview
which once took place between Lord Palmerston and Mr. Behnes, the sculptor. At the last sitting
which Lord Palmerston gave him, Behnes opened the conversation with--"Any news, my Lord, from
France? How do we stand with Louis Napoleon?" The Foreign Secretary raised his eyebrows for
an instant, and quietly replied, "Really, Mr. Behnes, I don't know: I have not seen the newspapers!"
Poor Behnes, with many excellent qualities and much real talent, was one of the many men who
entirely missed their way in life through want of tact.

Such is the power of manner, combined with tact, that Wilkes, one of the ugliest of men, used
to say, that in winning the graces of a lady, there was not more than three days' difference
between him and the handsomest man in England.

But this reference to Wilkes reminds us that too much importance must not be attached to manner,
for it does not afford any genuine test of character. The well-mannered man may, like Wilkes,
be merely acting a part, and that for an immoral purpose. Manner, like other fine arts, gives
pleasure, and is exceedingly agreeable to look upon; but it may be assumed as a disguise, as
men "assume a virtue though they have it not." It is but the exterior sign of good conduct,
but may be no more than skin-deep. The most highly-polished person may be thoroughly depraved
in heart; and his superfine manners may, after all, only consist in pleasing gestures and in
fine phrases.

On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that some of the richest and most generous natures
have been wanting in the graces of courtesy and politeness. As a rough rind sometimes covers
the sweetest fruit, so a rough exterior often conceals a kindly and hearty nature. The blunt
man may seem even rude in manner, and yet, at heart, be honest, kind, and gentle.

John Knox and Martin Luther were by no means distinguished for their urbanity. They had work
to do which needed strong and determined rather than well-mannered men. Indeed, they were both
thought to be unnecessarily harsh and violent in their manner. "And who art thou," said Mary
Queen of Scots to Knox, "that presumest to school the nobles and sovereign of this realm?"--"Madam,"
replied Knox, "a subject born within the same." It is said that his boldness, or roughness,
more than once made Queen Mary weep. When Regent Morton heard of this, he said, "Well, 'tis
better that women should weep than bearded men." The ordinary Englishman, when he travels abroad,
carries his shyness with him. He is stiff, awkward, ungraceful, undemonstrative, and apparently
unsympathetic; and though he may assume a brusqueness of manner, the shyness is there, and
cannot be wholly concealed. The naturally graceful and intensely social French cannot understand
such a character; and the Englishman is their standing joke--the subject of their most ludicrous
caricatures. George Sand attributes the rigidity of the natives of Albion to a stock of FLUIDE
BRITANNIQUE which they carry about with them, that renders them impassive under all circumstances,
and "as impervious to the atmosphere of the regions they traverse as a mouse in the centre
of an exhausted receiver."

The dry GAUCHE Englishman--to use the French phrase, L'ANGLAIS EMPETRE--is certainly a somewhat
disagreeable person to meet at first. He looks as if he had swallowed a poker. He is shy himself,
and the cause of shyness in others. He is stiff, not because he is proud, but because he is
shy; and he cannot shake it off, even if he would. Indeed, we should not be surprised to find
that even the clever writer who describes the English Philistine in all his enormity of awkward
manner and absence of grace, were himself as shy as a bat.

When two shy men meet, they seem like a couple of icicles. They sidle away and turn their backs
on each other in a room, or when travelling creep into the opposite corners of a railway-carriage.
When shy Englishmen are about to start on a journey by railway, they walk along the train,
to discover an empty compartment in which to bestow themselves; and when once ensconced, they
inwardly hate the next man who comes in. So; on entering the dining-room of their club, each
shy man looks out for an unoccupied table, until sometimes--all the tables in the room are
occupied by single diners. All this apparent unsociableness is merely shyness--the national
characteristic of the Englishman.

"The disciples of Confucius," observes Mr. Arthur Helps, "say that when in the presence of
the prince, his manner displayed RESPECTFUL UNEASINESS. There could hardly be given any two
words which more fitly describe the manner of most Englishmen when in society." Perhaps it
is due to this feeling that Sir Henry Taylor, in his 'Statesman,' recommends that, in the management
of interviews, the minister should be as "near to the door" as possible; and, instead of bowing
his visitor out, that he should take refuge, at the end of an interview, in the adjoining room.
"Timid and embarrassed men," he says, "will sit as if they were rooted to the spot, when they
are conscious that they have to traverse the length of a room in their retreat. In every case,
an interview will find a more easy and pleasing termination WHEN THE DOOR IS AT HAND as the
last words are spoken." [185]

The late Prince Albert, one of the gentlest and most amiable, was also one of the most retiring
of men. He struggled much against his sense of shyness, but was never able either to conquer
or conceal it. His biographer, in explaining its causes, says: "It was the shyness of a very
delicate nature, that is not sure it will please, and is without the confidence and the vanity
which often go to form characters that are outwardly more genial." [186]

But the Prince shared this defect with some of the greatest of Englishmen. Sir Isaac Newton
was probably the shyest man of his age. He kept secret for a time some of his greatest discoveries,
for fear of the notoriety they might bring him. His discovery of the Binomial Theorem and its
most important applications, as well as his still greater discovery of the Law of Gravitation,
were not published for years after they were made; and when he communicated to Collins his
solution of the theory of the moon's rotation round the earth, he forbade him to insert his
name in connection with it in the 'Philosophical Transactions,' saying: "It would, perhaps,
increase my acquaintance--the thing which I chiefly study to decline."

From all that can be learnt of Shakspeare, it is to be inferred that he was an exceedingly
shy man. The manner in which his plays were sent into the world--for it is not known that he
edited or authorized the publication of a single one of them--and the dates at which they respectively
appeared, are mere matters of conjecture. His appearance in his own plays in second and even
third-rate parts--his indifference to reputation, and even his apparent aversion to be held
in repute by his contemporaries--his disappearance from London [18the seat and centre of English
histrionic art] so soon as he had realised a moderate competency--and his retirement about
the age of forty, for the remainder of his days, to a life of obscurity in a small town in
the midland counties--all seem to unite in proving the shrinking nature of the man, and his
unconquerable shyness.

It is also probable that, besides being shy--and his shyness may, like that of Byron, have
been increased by his limp--Shakspeare did not possess in any high degree the gift of hope.
It is a remarkable circumstance, that whilst the great dramatist has, in the course of his
writings, copiously illustrated all other gifts, affections, and virtues, the passages are
very rare in which Hope is mentioned, and then it is usually in a desponding and despairing
tone, as when he says:

      "The miserable hath no other medicine, But only Hope."

Many of his sonnets breathe the spirit of despair and hopelessness. [187] He laments his lameness;
[188] apologizes for his profession as an actor; [189] expresses his "fear of trust" in himself,
and his hopeless, perhaps misplaced, affection; [1810] anticipates a "coffin'd doom;" and utters
his profoundly pathetic cry "for restful death."

It might naturally be supposed that Shakspeare's profession of an actor, and his repeated appearances
in public, would speedily overcome his shyness, did such exist. But inborn shyness, when strong,
is not so easily conquered. [1811] Who could have believed that the late Charles Mathews, who
entertained crowded houses night after night, was naturally one of the shyest of men? He would
even make long circuits [18lame though he was] along the byelanes of London to avoid recognition.
His wife says of him, that he looked "sheepish" and confused if recognised; and that his eyes
would fall, and his colour would mount, if he heard his name even whispered in passing along
the streets. [1812]

Nor would it at first sight have been supposed that Lord Byron was affected with shyness, and
yet he was a victim to it; his biographer relating that, while on a visit to Mrs. Pigot, at
Southwell, when he saw strangers approaching, he would instantly jump out of the window, and
escape on to the lawn to avoid them.

But a still more recent and striking instance is that of the late Archbishop Whately, who,
in the early part of his life, was painfully oppressed by the sense of shyness. When at Oxford,
his white rough coat and white hat obtained for him the soubriquet of "The White Bear;" and
his manners, according to his own account of himself, corresponded with the appellation. He
was directed, by way of remedy, to copy the example of the best-mannered men he met in society;
but the attempt to do this only increased his shyness, and he failed. He found that he was
all the while thinking of himself, rather than of others; whereas thinking of others, rather
than of one's self, is of the true essence of politeness.

Finding that he was making no progress, Whately was driven to utter despair; and then he said
to himself: "Why should I endure this torture all my life to no purpose? I would bear it still
if there was any success to be hoped for; but since there is not, I will die quietly, without
taking any more doses. I have tried my very utmost, and find that I must be as awkward as a
bear all my life, in spite of it. I will endeavour to think as little about it as a bear, and
make up my mind to endure what can't be cured." From this time forth he struggled to shake
off all consciousness as to manner, and to disregard censure as much as possible. In adopting
this course, he says: "I succeeded beyond my expectations; for I not only got rid of the personal
suffering of shyness, but also of most of those faults of manner which consciousness produces;
and acquired at once an easy and natural manner--careless, indeed, in the extreme, from its
originating in a stern defiance of opinion, which I had convinced myself must be ever against
me; rough and awkward, for smoothness and grace are quite out of my way, and, of course, tutorially
pedantic; but unconscious, and therefore giving expression to that goodwill towards men which
I really feel; and these, I believe, are the main points." [1813]

Washington, who was an Englishman in his lineage, was also one in his shyness. He is described
incidentally by Mr. Josiah Quincy, as "a little stiff in his person, not a little formal in
his manner, and not particularly at ease in the presence of strangers. He had the air of a
country gentleman not accustomed to mix much in society, perfectly polite, but not easy in
his address and conversation, and not graceful in his movements."

Although we are not accustomed to think of modern Americans as shy, the most distinguished
American author of our time was probably the shyest of men. Nathaniel Hawthorne was shy to
the extent of morbidity. We have observed him, when a stranger entered the room where he was,
turn his back for the purpose of avoiding recognition. And yet, when the crust of his shyness
was broken, no man could be more cordial and genial than Hawthorne.

We observe a remark in one of Hawthorne's lately-published 'Notebooks,' [1814] that on one
occasion he met Mr. Helps in society, and found him "cold." And doubtless Mr. Helps thought
the same of him. It was only the case of two shy men meeting, each thinking the other stiff
and reserved, and parting before their mutual film of shyness had been removed by a little
friendly intercourse. Before pronouncing a hasty judgment in such cases, it would be well to
bear in mind the motto of Helvetius, which Bentham says proved such a real treasure to him:
"POUR AIMER LES HOMMES, IL FAUT ATTENDRE PEU."

We have thus far spoken of shyness as a defect. But there is another way of looking at it;
for even shyness has its bright side, and contains an element of good. Shy men and shy races
are ungraceful and undemonstrative, because, as regards society at large, they are comparatively
unsociable. They do not possess those elegances of manner, acquired by free intercourse, which
distinguish the social races, because their tendency is to shun society rather than to seek
it. They are shy in the presence of strangers, and shy even in their own families. They hide
their affections under a robe of reserve, and when they do give way to their feelings, it is
only in some very hidden inner-chamber. And yet the feelings ARE there, and not the less healthy
and genuine that they are not made the subject of exhibition to others.

It was not a little characteristic of the ancient Germans, that the more social and demonstrative
peoples by whom they were surrounded should have characterised them as the NIEMEC, or Dumb
men. And the same designation might equally apply to the modern English, as compared, for example,
with their nimbler, more communicative and vocal, and in all respects more social neighbours,
the modern French and Irish.

But there is one characteristic which marks the English people, as it did the races from which
they have mainly sprung, and that is their intense love of Home. Give the Englishman a home,
and he is comparatively indifferent to society. For the sake of a holding which he can call
his own, he will cross the seas, plant himself on the prairie or amidst the primeval forest,
and make for himself a home. The solitude of the wilderness has no fears for him; the society
of his wife and family is sufficient, and he cares for no other. Hence it is that the people
of Germanic origin, from whom the English and Americans have alike sprung, make the best of
colonizers, and are now rapidly extending themselves as emigrants and settlers in all parts
of the habitable globe.

The French have never made any progress as colonizers, mainly because of their intense social
instincts--the secret of their graces of manner,--and because they can never forget that they
are Frenchmen. [1815] It seemed at one time within the limits of probability that the French
would occupy the greater part of the North American continent. From Lower Canada their line
of forts extended up the St. Lawrence, and from Fond du Lac on Lake Superior, along the River
St. Croix, all down the Mississippi, to its mouth at New Orleans. But the great, self-reliant,
industrious "Niemec," from a fringe of settlements along the seacoast, silently extended westward,
settling and planting themselves everywhere solidly upon the soil; and nearly all that now
remains of the original French occupation of America, is the French colony of Acadia, in Lower
Canada.

And even there we find one of the most striking illustrations of that intense sociability of
the French which keeps them together, and prevents their spreading over and planting themselves
firmly in a new country, as it is the instinct of the men of Teutonic race to do. While, in
Upper Canada, the colonists of English and Scotch descent penetrate the forest and the wilderness,
each settler living, it may be, miles apart from his nearest neighbour, the Lower Canadians
of French descent continue clustered together in villages, usually consisting of a line of
houses on either side of the road, behind which extend their long strips of farm-land, divided
and subdivided to an extreme tenuity. They willingly submit to all the inconveniences of this
method of farming for the sake of each other's society, rather than betake themselves to the
solitary backwoods, as English, Germans, and Americans so readily do. Indeed, not only does
the American backwoodsman become accustomed to solitude, but he prefers it. And in the Western
States, when settlers come too near him, and the country seems to become "overcrowded," he
retreats before the advance of society, and, packing up his "things" in a waggon, he sets out
cheerfully, with his wife and family, to found for himself a new home in the Far West.

Thus the Teuton, because of his very shyness, is the true colonizer. English, Scotch, Germans,
and Americans are alike ready to accept solitude, provided they can but establish a home and
maintain a family. Thus their comparative indifference to society has tended to spread this
race over the earth, to till and to subdue it; while the intense social instincts of the French,
though issuing in much greater gracefulness of manner, has stood in their way as colonizers;
so that, in the countries in which they have planted themselves--as in Algiers and elsewhere--they
have remained little more than garrisons. [1816]

There are other qualities besides these, which grow out of the comparative unsociableness of
the Englishman. His shyness throws him back upon himself, and renders him self-reliant and
self-dependent. Society not being essential to his happiness, he takes refuge in reading, in
study, in invention; or he finds pleasure in industrial work, and becomes the best of mechanics.
He does not fear to entrust himself to the solitude of the ocean, and he becomes a fisherman,
a sailor, a discoverer. Since the early Northmen scoured the northern seas, discovered America,
and sent their fleets along the shores of Europe and up the Mediterranean, the seamanship of
the men of Teutonic race has always been in the ascendant.

The English are inartistic for the same reason that they are unsociable. They may make good
colonists, sailors, and mechanics; but they do not make good singers, dancers, actors, artistes,
or modistes. They neither dress well, act well, speak well, nor write well. They want style--they
want elegance. What they have to do they do in a straightforward manner, but without grace.
This was strikingly exhibited at an International Cattle Exhibition held at Paris a few years
ago. At the close of the Exhibition, the competitors came up with the prize animals to receive
the prizes. First came a gay and gallant Spaniard, a magnificent man, beautifully dressed,
who received a prize of the lowest class with an air and attitude that would have become a
grandee of the highest order. Then came Frenchmen and Italians, full of grace, politeness,
and CHIC--themselves elegantly dressed, and their animals decorated to the horns with flowers
and coloured ribbons harmoniously blended. And last of all came the exhibitor who was to receive
the first prize--a slouching man, plainly dressed, with a pair of farmer's gaiters on, and
without even a flower in his buttonhole. "Who is he?" asked the spectators. "Why, he is the
Englishman," was the reply. "The Englishman!--that the representative of a great country!"
was the general exclamation. But it was the Englishman all over. He was sent there, not to
exhibit himself, but to show "the best beast," and he did it, carrying away the first prize.
Yet he would have been nothing the worse for the flower in his buttonhole.

To remedy this admitted defect of grace and want of artistic taste in the English people, a
school has sprung up amongst us for the more general diffusion of fine art. The Beautiful has
now its teachers and preachers, and by some it is almost regarded in the light of a religion.
"The Beautiful is the Good"--"The Beautiful is the True"--"The Beautiful is the priest of the
Benevolent," are among their texts. It is believed that by the study of art the tastes of the
people may be improved; that by contemplating objects of beauty their nature will become purified;
and that by being thereby withdrawn from sensual enjoyments, their character will be refined
and elevated.

But though such culture is calculated to be elevating and purifying in a certain degree, we
must not expect too much from it. Grace is a sweetener and embellisher of life, and as such
is worthy of cultivation. Music, painting, dancing, and the fine arts, are all sources of pleasure;
and though they may not be sensual, yet they are sensuous, and often nothing more. The cultivation
of a taste for beauty of form or colour, of sound or attitude, has no necessary effect upon
the cultivation of the mind or the development of the character. The contemplation of fine
works of art will doubtless improve the taste, and excite admiration; but a single noble action
done in the sight of men will more influence the mind, and stimulate the character to imitation,
than the sight of miles of statuary or acres of pictures. For it is mind, soul, and heart--not
taste or art--that make men great.

It is indeed doubtful whether the cultivation of art--which usually ministers to luxury--has
done so much for human progress as is generally supposed. It is even possible that its too
exclusive culture may effeminate rather than strengthen the character, by laying it more open
to the temptations of the senses. "It is the nature of the imaginative temperament cultivated
by the arts," says Sir Henry Taylor, "to undermine the courage, and, by abating strength of
character, to render men more easily subservient--SEQUACES, CEREOS, ET AD MANDATA DUCTILES."
[1817] The gift of the artist greatly differs from that of the thinker; his highest idea is
to mould his subject--whether it be of painting, or music, or literature--into that perfect
grace of form in which thought [18it may not be of the deepest] finds its apotheosis and immortality.

Art has usually flourished most during the decadence of nations, when it has been hired by
wealth as the minister of luxury. Exquisite art and degrading corruption were contemporary
in Greece as well as in Rome. Phidias and Iktinos had scarcely completed the Parthenon, when
the glory of Athens had departed; Phidias died in prison; and the Spartans set up in the city
the memorials of their own triumph and of Athenian defeat. It was the same in ancient Rome,
where art was at its greatest height when the people were in their most degraded condition.
Nero was an artist, as well as Domitian, two of the greatest monsters of the Empire. If the
"Beautiful" had been the "Good," Commodus must have been one of the best of men. But according
to history he was one of the worst.

Again, the greatest period of modern Roman art was that in which Pope Leo X. flourished, of
whose reign it has been said, that "profligacy and licentiousness prevailed amongst the people
and clergy, as they had done almost uncontrolled ever since the pontificate of Alexander VI."
In like manner, the period at which art reached its highest point in the Low Countries was
that which immediately succeeded the destruction of civil and religious liberty, and the prostration
of the national life under the despotism of Spain. If art could elevate a nation, and the contemplation
of The Beautiful were calculated to make men The Good--then Paris ought to contain a population
of the wisest and best of human beings. Rome also is a great city of art; and yet there, the
VIRTUS or valour of the ancient Romans has characteristically degenerated into VERTU, or a
taste for knicknacks; whilst, according to recent accounts, the city itself is inexpressibly
foul. [1818]

Art would sometimes even appear to have a close connection with dirt; and it is said of Mr.
Ruskin, that when searching for works of art in Venice, his attendant in his explorations would
sniff an ill-odour, and when it was strong would say, "Now we are coming to something very
old and fine!"--meaning in art. [1819] A little common education in cleanliness, where it is
wanting, would probably be much more improving, as well as wholesome, than any amount of education
in fine art. Ruffles are all very well, but it is folly to cultivate them to the neglect of
the shirt.

