And thus we might go on accumulating the names of men and women whom all the world knows, who
have confessed their obligations to the old biographer,--philosophers like Bacon, warriors
like Bussy d'Amboise, poets like Wordsworth; while many a one has owed much to him who has
made no open acknowledgment of his debt. Montaigne somewhere complains of the unlicensed stealings
from his author; and Udall, in his Preface to the Apophthegms of Erasmus, declares,--"It is
a thing scarcely believable, how much, and how boldly as well, the common writers that from
time to time have copied out his [Plutarch's] works, as also certain that have thought themselves
liable to control and amend all men's doings, have taken upon them in this author, who ought
with all reverence to be handled of them, and with all fear to have been preserved from altering,
depraving, or corrupting."[K]

[Footnote K: The following passage presents a view of some of the uses to which Plutarch's
narratives were turned during the Middle Ages. "Or personne n'ignore que les chroniqueurs du
moyen âge compilaient les faits les plus remarquables de l'Écriture Sainte ou des histoires
profanes pour les mêler à leurs récits. C'est ainsi que ceux qui ont écrit la vie de Du Guesclin
ont mis sur le compte de ce héros ce que Plutarque rapporte de plus mémorable des grands hommes
de l'antiquité."--SOUVESTRE. Les Derniers Bretons. I. 147.]

The question naturally arises, What are the qualities in Plutarch which have made him so universal
a favorite, which have attracted towards him men of such opposite tempers and different lives?
It is not enough to say that all real biography is of interest,--that every man has curiosity
about the life of every other man, and finds in it illustrations of his own. Other writers
of lives have not had the same fortune with Plutarch. For one reader of Suetonius or of Diogenes
Laërtius, there are a thousand of Plutarch. Nor is it that the subjects of his biographies
are greater or more famous than all other men. Some of the noblest and best known men of Greece
and Rome are omitted from Plutarch's list.[L] The true grounds of the general popularity of
Plutarch's Lives are not to be found in their subjects so much as in his manner of treating
them, and in the qualities of his own nature, as exhibited in his book. At the tomb of Achilles,
Alexander declared that he esteemed him happy in having had so famous a poet to proclaim his
actions; and scarcely less fortunate were they who had such a biographer as Plutarch to record
their lives. He himself has given us his conception of the true office of a biographer, and
in this has explained in great part the secret of his excellence. Hannibal was perhaps a greater
captain, but not so great and good a man. Epaminondas did not do so much. Themistocles was
a rogue." It is curious that Themistocles is the only one of these men of whom we have a biography
by Plutarch. His Lives of Scipio and Epaminondas are lost. Hannibal did not come within the
scope of his design.]

[Footnote M: Life of Alexander, at the beginning.]

It is his fidelity to this principle, his dealing with events and circumstances chiefly as
they illustrate character, his delineation of the features of the souls of men, that constitutes
Plutarch's highest merit as a biographer. He is no historian; he often neglects chronology,
and disregards the sequence of events; he omits many incidents, and he avoids the details of
national and political affairs. The progress of the advance or decline of states is not to
be learned from his pages. But if his Lives be read in chronological order, much may be inferred
from them of the moral condition and changes of the communities in which the men flourished
whose characters and actions he describes. Biography is thus made to cast an incidental light
upon history. The successes of Alexander give evidence of the lowering of the Greek spirit,
and illustrate the immemorial weakness of Oriental tyrannies. The victories and the defeats
of Pyrrhus alike display the vigor of Republican Rome. The character and the fate of Mark Antony
show that vigor at its ebb, and foretell the near fall of the Roman liberties. Thus in his
long series of lives of noble Grecians and Romans, the motives and principles which lay at
the foundation of the characters of the men who moulded the fate of Greece and Rome, the reciprocal
influences of their times upon these men and of these men upon their times, may all be traced
with more or less distinctness and certainty. It was not Plutarch's object to exhibit them
in sequent evolution, but, in attaining the object which he had in view, he could not fail
to make them manifest to the thoughtful reader. His book, though not a history, is invaluable
to historians. He believed in a divine ordering of the world, and saw obscurely through the
mists and shadows of heathenism the indications of the wisdom and rectitude of an overruling
Providence. To him man did not appear as the sole arbiter of his own destiny, but rather as
an unconscious agent in working out the designs of a Higher Power; and yet, as these designs
were only dimly and imperfectly to be recognized, the noblest man was he who was truest to
the eternal principles of right, who was most independent of the chances and shiftings of fortune,
who, "fortressed on conscience and impregnable will," strove to live in the manliest and most
self-supported relations with the world, neither fearing nor hoping much in regard to the uncertainties
of the future, and who

  "metus omnes et inexorabile fatum
  Subjecit pedibus."

In his whole character, Plutarch shows himself one of the best examples of the intelligent
heathen of the later classic period. His Writings contain the practical essence of the results
of Greek and Roman life and thought. His intellect, equally removed from superstition and from
skepticism, was open with a large receptiveness, which sometimes approaches to credulity, to
the traditions of early wonders, to the reports of recent miracles, and to the stories of the
deeds and sayings of men.[N] The evidence upon which he reports is often insufficient to establish
the statements that he makes; but his readiness to tell the current stories gives to his biographies
a peculiar interest, adding to their entertainment, and at the same time to their value as
representations of common beliefs and popular fancies. He is one of the best story-tellers
of antiquity, and from his works a series of "Percy Anecdotes" of ancient men might easily
be compiled. It is this fulness of anecdote, which, perhaps, more than any other quality of
his writings, makes him the favorite of boys as well as of men. He treasures up pithy sayings,
and his own reflections are often epigrammatic in expression, and always full of good sense.

[Footnote N: There are two remarkable passages in the Life of Coriolanus which illustrate Plutarch's
opinions upon these points. The first (ii. 91) treats of the divine influence on the human
will and action; the second (ii. 97-98) relates to the mode of regarding events seemingly incredible.
This latter is peculiarly distinguished by its good sense and clear statement. It closes with
the memorable saying, "Knowledge of divine things for the most part, as Heraclitus says, is
lost to us by incredulity."]

In his Life of Demosthenes, in a passage which is pleasant on account of its personal reference,
Plutarch speaks of the advantage that it would be for a writer like himself to reside in some
city addicted to liberal arts, and populous, where he might have access to many books, and
to many persons from whom he might gather up such facts as books do not contain. "But as for
me," he says, "I live in a little town, where I am willing to continue, lest it should grow
less." And he goes on to excuse himself for his imperfect knowledge of the Roman tongue, which
unfits him to draw a comparison between the orations of Demosthenes and of Cicero. But, although
his acquaintance with the structure and powers of the language may have been insufficient to
enable him to venture on literary criticism, his acquaintance with the books of the Romans
was considerable, and he had thoroughly studied the Greek authors who had written on Roman
affairs. His own library, or the libraries to which he had access at Chaeronea, must have been
well furnished with the books most important for his studies. He is said to quote two hundred
and fifty authors, some eighty of whom are among those whose works have been wholly or partly
lost. He made careful use of his materials, which were, of course, more abundant for his Greek
than for his Roman narratives. "If we would put the Lives of Plutarch to a severe test," says
Mr. Long, than whom no one is better qualified to speak with authority upon the subject, "we
must carefully examine his Roman Lives. He says that he knew Latin imperfectly, and he lived
under the Empire, when many of the educated Romans had but a superficial acquaintance with
the earlier history of their state. We must therefore expect to find him imperfectly informed
on Roman institutions; and we can detect him in some errors. Yet, on the whole, his Roman Lives
do not often convey erroneous notions; if the detail is incorrect, the general impression is
true. They may be read with profit by those who seek to know something of Roman affairs, and
have not knowledge enough to detect an error. They probably contain as few mistakes as most
biographies which have been written by a man who is not the countryman of those whose lives
he writes."

Yet, spite of his general accuracy and his impartial temper, the representations which Plutarch
makes of the characters which he describes are not always to be accepted as fair delineations.
Unconscious prejudice, or misconception of circumstances and relations, sometimes leads him
into apparent injustice. Thus, for example, while he bears hardly upon Demosthenes, and sets
out many of his actions in too unfavorable lights, he, on the other hand, interprets the conduct
and character of Phocion with manifest indulgence, and presents a flattered portrait of a man
whose death turned popular reproaches into pity, but was insufficient to redeem the faults
of his life.

Mr. Grote, in his History, passes a very different judgment upon these two men from that to
which one would be led by the perusal of Plutarch's narratives merely. And it is an illustration,
at once, of the honesty of the ancient biographer, and of the ability of the modern historian,
that Mr. Grote should not infrequently derive from Plutarch's own account the means for correcting
his false estimate of the motives and the actions of those whom he misjudged.

In an excellent passage in his Preface, Mr. Clough remarks that

"Much has been said of Plutarch's inaccuracy; and it cannot be denied that he is careless about
numbers, and occasionally contradicts his own statements. A greater fault, perhaps, is his
passion for anecdote; he cannot forbear from repeating stories the improbability of which he
is the first to recognize, which, nevertheless, by mere repetition, leave unjust impressions.
He is unfair in this way to Demosthenes and Pericles,--against the latter of whom, however,
he doubtless inherited the prejudices which Plato handed down to the philosophers.

"It is true, also, that his unhistorical treatment of the subjects of his biography makes him
often unsatisfactory and imperfect in the portraits he draws. Much, of course, in the public
lives of statesmen can find its only explanation in their political position; and of this Plutarch
often knows and thinks little. So far as the researches of modern historians have succeeded
in really recovering a knowledge of relations of this sort, so far, undoubtedly, these biographies
stand in need of their correction. Yet, in the uncertainty which must attend all modern restorations,
it is agreeable, and surely also profitable, to recur to portraits drawn ere new thoughts and
views had occupied the civilized world, without reference to such disputable grounds of judgment,
simply upon the broad principles of the ancient moral code of right and wrong. .... We have
here the faithful record of the historical tradition of Plutarch's age. This is what, in the
second century of our era, Greeks and Romans loved to believe about their warriors and statesmen
of the past. As a picture, at least, of the best Greek and Roman moral views and moral judgments,
as a presentation of the results of Greek and Roman moral thought, delivered, not under the
pressure of calamity, but as they existed in ordinary times, and actuated plain-living people,
in country places, in their daily life, Plutarch's writings are of indisputable value."

Of all the biographies contained in his work, none might excite greater suspicion of incorrectness
than that of Timoleon, on account of the extraordinary character both of the man and of the
incidents of his career. His story reads like a romance of the ancient times, like a legend
of some half-mythical hero, rather than like the true account of an actual man. There is, perhaps,
none among his Lives which Plutarch has written with greater spirit, with livelier sympathies,
than this. And yet, in spite of all its seeming improbability, there is little reason to question
its essential truth. It corresponds, with some minor exceptions, with all that can be ascertained
from other ancient authors who wrote concerning the deliverer of Sicily; and even Mitford,
with all his zeal in the cause of tyrants, can find little to detract from the praise of Timoleon,
or to diminish our confidence in the truth of Plutarch's account of him.

But, in addition to the interest that belongs to these biographies, from their intrinsic qualities,
as affected by the character of Plutarch,--beside the interest which the common reader or the
student of biography and history may find in them, they possess a still deeper interest for
the student of human nature, in its various modifications, under varying influences, and in
different ages, from exhibiting to him, in a long series, many of the chief characters of the
heathen world in such form as fits them for comparison with the prominent men of Christian
times. The question of the effect of Christianity upon the characters and lives of the leading
actors in modern history is not more important than it is difficult of solution. Plutarch,
better than any other ancient writer, affords the means of estimating the motives, the principles,
the objects, of the men of the old time. We see in his pages what they were; we see the differences
between them and the men of later days. How far are those differences exhibitions of inferiority
or of superiority? How far do they result from the influence of secondary causes? how far from
the change in religious belief?

No man who knows much of the course of history will venture to insist greatly on any essential
change for the better having been wrought as yet by Christianity in the manner in which the
affairs of the world are carried on. Christianity has not yet been fairly tried. Nations calling
themselves Christian are still governed on heathen principles. Christianity has been for the
most part perverted and misunderstood. The grossest errors have been taught in its name, are
still taught in its name. Falsehood has claimed the authority of truth, and its claim has been
granted. The stream which flowed out pure from its source has been caught in foul cisterns,
has been led into narrow channels, has been made stagnant in desolate pools and wide-spread
weedy marshes. The doctrine of Christ has had thus far in the world but very few hearers who
have understood it. Many a modern creed might well go back to heathenism for improvement. This
perversion of Christianity is a chief element in the difficulty of tracing the real influence
of true Christian teaching upon character. It is this which compels us to draw a parallel,
not so much between the actual characters of ancient and modern times, if we would rightly
understand the differences between them, as between what we may assume to be the ideal standards
of the heathen and the Christian. But to treat this subject with the fulness and in the manner
which it deserves would lead us too far from Plutarch, and we have done enough in suggesting
it as matter for reflection to those who read his Lives.

One of the most marked differences in the position of the ancient and the modern man is that
which has been quietly and gradually brought about by science; but its effect is little recognized
by the mass of men or the most wide-spread churches. It is the difference of his recognized
relations to the universe. While this earth was supposed to be the central point and main effort
of creation, while the earth itself was unknown, and all the regions of space were regarded
as void and untenanted, save by the inventions of fancy, man may have seemed to himself a creature
of large proportions and of considerable importance. He measured himself with the gods and
the half-gods, and found himself not much their inferior. In reading Plutarch, one cannot fail
to be struck with the manly self-reliance of his best men of action. Their piety had no weakness
of self-abasement in it. They possessed a piety toward themselves as well as toward the gods.
Timoleon, who was attended by the good-fortune that waits on noble character, erected in the
house which the Syracusans bestowed upon him an altar to [Greek: Automatia], which, as Mr.
Clough well remarks, in a note, "is almost equivalent to Spontaneousness. His successes had
come, as it were, of themselves." The act was an acknowledgment of divine favor, and an assertion
at the same time of his individual independence of action. This spirit of self-dependence was
the grandest feature of Greek and Roman heathenism; and it is in this, if in anything, that
a superiority of character is manifest in the men of ancient times. The famous passage in Seneca's
tragedy, in which Medea asserts herself as sufficient to stand alone against the universe,
contains its essence and is its complete expression.

  Nutr. Spes nulla monstrat rebus adflictis viam.

  Med. Qui nil potest sperare, desperet nihil.

  Nutr. Abiere Colchi; conjugis nulla est fides;
  Nihilque superest opibus e tantis tibi.

  Med. Medea superest; hic mare et terras vides,
  Ferrumque, et ignes, et deos, et fulmina.
  Medea, Act ii. 162-167.

Here is self-reliance at its highest point; the strength of resolute will measuring itself
singly and undauntedly against all forces, human and divine.

But, as a necessary consequent of this spirit, as its implied complement in the balance of
human nature, we find, as a distinct trait in the lives of many of the manliest ancients, an
occasional prevalence of a spirit of despondency, a recognition of the ultimate weakness of
man when brought by himself face to face with the wall of opposing circumstance and the resistless
force of Fate. Will is strong, but the powers outside the will are stronger. Manliness may
not fail, but man himself may be broken. Neither the teachings of natural religion, nor the
doctrines of philosophy, nor the support of a sound heart are sufficient for man in the crisis
of uttermost trial. Without something beyond these, higher than these, without a conscious
dependence on Omnipotence, man must sink at last under the buffets of adverse fortune. Take
the instances of these great men in Plutarch, and look at the end of their lives. How many
of them are simple confessions of defeat! Themistocles sacrifices to the gods, drinks poison,
and dies. Demosthenes takes poison to save himself from falling into the hands of his enemies.
Cicero proposes to slay himself in the house of Caesar, and is murdered only through want of
resolution to kill himself. Brutus says to the friend who urges him to fly,--"Yes, we must
fly; yet not with our feet, but with our hands," and falls upon his sword. Cato lies down calmly
at night, reads Plato on the Soul, and then kills himself; while, after his death, the people
of Utica cry out with one voice that he is "the only free, the only undefeated man." It may
be said that even in suicide these men displayed the manliness of their tempers. True, but
it was the manliness of the deserter who runs the risk of being shot for the sake of avoiding
the risks and fatigues of service in war.[O]

[Footnote O: There is a striking passage in Seneca's treatise De Consolatione, which may, perhaps,
be not unfairly regarded as the expression of a sentiment common among the better heathens
in regard to death,--a sentiment of profound sadness. He says,--"Mors dolorum omnium solutio
est et finis, ultra quam mala nostra non exeunt, quae nos in illam tranquillitatem, in qua
antequam nasceremur jacuimus, reponit." xix. 4.]

Again, we must be content rather to hint at than to develop the matter for reflection and study
that Plutarch affords, and unwillingly pass by, without even a glance at them, large domains
of thought that lie within his pages. We are glad to believe, that, through the excellent edition
before us, his Lives will be more widely read than ever. In this country, where the tendency
of things is to the limited, but equal development of each individual in social and political
life, and hence to the production of a uniform mediocrity of character and of action, these
biographies are of special value, as exhibiting men developed under circumstances widely contrasted
with our own, and who may serve as standards by which to measure some of our own deficiencies
or advantages. Here were the men who stood head and shoulders above the others of their times;
we see them now, "foreshortened in the tract of time,"--not as they appeared to their contemporaries,
but in something like their real proportions. But the greatness of those proportions for the
most part remains unchanged. How will it be with our great men two thousand years hence? Will
the numerous "most distinguished men of America" appear as large then as they do now? Will
the speeches of our popular orators be read then? Will the most famous of our senators be famous
then? Will the ablest of our generals still be gathering laurels?

There is a story told by the learned Andrew Thevet, chief cosmographer to Henry III., King
of France and Poland, to the effect that one Triumpho of Camarino did most fantastically imagine
and persuade himself that really and truly one day "he was assembled in company with the Pope,
the Emperor, and the several Kings and Princes of Christendom, (although all that while he
was alone in his own chamber by himself,) where he entered upon, debated, and resolved all
the states' affairs of Christendom; and he verily believed that he was the wisest man of them
all; and so he well might be, of the company." The fantastical imagination of this Triumpho
furnishes a good illustration of the reality of companionship which one who possesses Plutarch
may have in his own chamber with the greatest and most interesting men of ancient times. If
he be worthy, he may make the best of them his intimates. He may live with them as his counsellors
and his friends. Whether he will believe that he is "the wisest man of them all" is doubtful;
but, however this may be, he will find himself in their company growing wiser, stronger, tenderer,
and truer.

It has been well said, that "Plutarch's Lives is the book for those who can nobly think and
dare and do."

The Lost and Found; or Life among the Poor. By SAMUEL B. HALLIDAY. New York: Blakeman & Mason.
1859.

It has been asserted--most emphatically by those who have most fairly tried it--that no house
was ever built large enough for two families to live in decently and comfortably. Yet in this
present year of grace, 1859, half a million of men and women--two-thirds of the population
of New York--are compelled, by reason of their own poverty and the avarice of certain capitalists,
to live in what are technically known as "tenement-houses," or, more pertinently, "barracks,"--hulks
of brick, put up by Shylocks anxious for twenty per cent., and lived in--God knows how--by
from four to ninety-four families each. Of 115,986 families residing in the city of New York,
only 15,990 are able to enjoy the luxury of an independent home; 14,362 other families live
in comparative comfort, two in a house; 4,416 buildings contain three families each, and yet
do not come under the head of tenements; and the 11,965 dwelling-houses which remain are the
homes of 72,386 families, being an average of seven families, or thirty-five souls to each house!

But this is only an average. In the eleventh ward, 113 rear houses (houses built on the backs
of deep lots, and separated only by a narrow and necessarily dark and filthy court from the
front houses, which are also "barracks,") contain 1,653 families, or nearly 15 families or
70 souls each; 24 others contain 407 families, being an average of 80 souls to each; and in
another ward, 72 such houses contain no less than 19 families or 95 souls each!

This seems shocking. But this is by no means the worst! There are 580 tenement-houses in New
York which contain, by actual count, 10,933 families, or about 85 persons each; 193 others,
which accommodate 111 persons each; 71 others, which cover 140 each; and, finally, 29--these
must be the most profitable!--which have a total population of no less than 5,449 souls, or
187 to each house!

That part of Fifth Avenue which holds the chief part of the wealth and fashion of New York
has an extent of about two miles, or, counting both sides of the street, four miles. These
four miles of stately palaces are occupied by four hundred families; while a single block of
tenement-houses, not two hundred yards out of Fifth Avenue, contains no less than seven hundred
families, or 3,500 souls! Seven such blocks, Mr. Halliday pertinently remarks, would contain
more people than the city of Hartford, which covers an area of several miles square.

Such astounding facts as these the industrious Buckle of the year 3000, intent upon a history
of our American civilization, will quote to the croakers of that day as samples of our nineteenth-century
barbarism.

"But," some one may object, "if the houses were comfortably arranged, and land was really scarce,
after all, these people were not so badly off."

The "tenement-house," which is now one of the "institutions" of New York, stands usually upon
a lot 25 by 100 feet, is from four to six stories high, and is so divided internally as to
contain four families on each floor,--each family eating, drinking, sleeping, cooking, washing,
and fighting in a room eight feet by ten and a bed-room six feet by ten; unless, indeed,--which
very frequently happens, says Mr. Halliday,--the family renting these two rooms takes in another
family to board, or sub-lets one room to one or even two other families!

But the modern improvements?

One of the largest and most recently built of the New York "barracks" has apartments for 126
famines. It was built especially for this use. And yet this is a fair specimen. And for such
hideous and necessarily demoralizing habitations,--for two rooms, stench, indecency, and gloom,
the poor family pays--and the rich builder receives--"thirty-five per cent, annually on the
cost of the apartments!"

When a city has half a million of inhabitants who must content themselves with such quarters
as these, which, even the beasts of the field would perish in, does any man wonder that 18,000
women were arrested in the last year? that in the three months ending January 31st, 1859, 13,765
arrests were made by the city police, of which over one-third were females, one in six under
twenty years of age, and more than one-half under thirty? that in 1855 there was one death
in every 26-1/3 of the population? that in 1858 the five city dispensaries were called on to
treat (gratuitously) 65,442 infant patients? that, in 1855, 1,938 infants were stillborn, and
6,390, or 1 in 99 of the population, did not live the first year out? while, at the present
time, 20,000 children roam the streets, and never enter a schoolroom? With such homes, is there
cause for surprise that husbands murder their wives? that mothers abuse their children,--and
would kill them, too, were they not profitable little slaves, as Mr. Halliday shows? that men
and women live in drunken stupor upon the spoils of young children,--often not their own,--sent
out to beg, to steal, or do worse yet? that even the very fag-end of humanity, the sentiment
of "honor among thieves," perishes here?

For twenty years, Mr. Halliday has labored among these poor creatures, as the "agent" or missionary
of the "American Female Guardian Society and Home for the Friendless," an association of noble-minded
and unusually practical men and women. If any of our readers fear lest the fountain of benevolence
may dry up within him, we commend Mr. Halliday's book to his perusal. He will find there some
little stories which have a pathos beyond tears; some facts--happening, mayhap, within ten
minutes' walk of his own fireside--quite as strange as the strangest fiction of Mr. Cobb or
Mr. Emerson Bennett. We have not space left for any account of Mr. Halliday's labors. His Society
provides not only boys and girls, but even men and women under certain circumstances, with
present assistance and shelter, and afterwards a home and work in the country, at a distance
from the temptations and miseries of the city. It is curious to read that Mr. Halliday receives
frequent orders from various States--even the most distant West--for "a baby," "a boy," "a
little girl." It is good to know that in that way many bright young souls are saved from the
horrors of "tenement" life, and placed in kind hands; and it is touching to read, that, while
many of these little ones are remarkable for good looks and bright spirits, all are reported
as singularly quiet, sedate, and submissive. We are glad to know that the types of the paper
published by the Society are set up by the women who have a refuge in its Home; and we were
sorry to read of one boy, who always ran away from everybody and every place, being at last
secured in the House of Refuge, where, being now nearly eleven years old, the monster! "he
seems dejected, and I have never seen him smile," says Mr. Halliday. This boy--and a good many
others who like the streets and the free air better than the black-hole of a tenement--should
go to sea. The sea is an honorable trade, (it used to be a profession,) and the merchants of
New York could not do a wiser or a better thing than in providing a school-ship where such
lads could be taught the rudiments of seamanship and navigation, or, in default of that, sending
them as apprentices in their vessels.

We have two complaints to enter against Mr. Halliday: first, that he has given his book a title
which will deter most sensible people from opening it; and, second, that in his valuable report
on the tenement-houses, he does not give the names of those enterprising personages who make
thirty-five per cent, at the expense, not only of their poor tenants, but of every tax-payer
in New York.

More than one-third of the task assumed by the editors of this work is now completed; and the
best testimony in its favor is, that, although it has been freely criticized, sometimes with
closeness and severity, and sometimes with studied harshness and evident malice, its reputation
has risen among candid and competent readers with the appearance of each volume. Faults, negative
and positive, may undoubtedly be discovered in it; but the same is true, in a greater or less
degree, of every other production of human labor; and the eyes neither of malice nor of hypercriticism
have been able to find any sufficient reason why this Cyclopaedia should not be accepted as
the beat popular dictionary of general knowledge in the English language. As the work advances,
the comprehensiveness of its plan, the honesty of its purpose, and the truly catholic and liberal
spirit which animates it, become more and more apparent; and the names of the authors of the
articles (a list of which is to be published, we believe, with the last volume) sufficiently
show the determination of the editors to secure the cooperation of the first talent in the
country. Among the contributors to the present volume are the Rev. Dr. Bellows, Edmund Blunt,
Dion Bourcicault, Professor Dana of Yale College, Edward Everett, Professor Felton of Cambridge,
Parke Godwin, Richard Hildreth, George S. Hillard, William Henry Hurlbut, and Professors Lowell
and Parsons of Cambridge.

Of the articles, we especially notice Cranmer, remarkable for the candor and the coolness of
perception with which the character of its benevolent and gifted, but inconsistent and vacillating
subject, is discussed:--Cromwell, which gives a completer, more authentic, and less prejudiced
account of the eventful life of the great Puritan leader than is to be found in any other publication
known to us:--Crusades, a complete picture in little of those great fitful blazes of religious
enthusiasm by which it flickered into its final extinction; (for, afterward, only a semblance
of it was made a stalking-horse by politicians;) and this article is quite a model of epitome:--Cuneiform
Inscriptions, in which the writer has presented concisely and clearly the fruits of a careful
examination of all the many theories that have been broached with regard to these important
and puzzling records of the ancient world, without revealing a preference, if he have one,
for any; a wise course, where, in a case of such consequence, the views of learned men are
so conflicting, but one not always easily followed:--Damascus Blades, a very interesting, and,
for general purposes, a very full description of the peculiarities of those famous, and, it
appears, not too much lauded weapons:--Deaf and Dumb, a very copious article of eleven pages,
rich in historical and biographical detail, and giving full accounts of the various methods
of instruction adopted for this class of persons in all times and countries, with a large body
of statistical information upon the subject; an article of great interest, but perhaps undue
length:--Death, which conveys much information on a subject as to which the grossest and most
deplorable misconceptions prevail; an article equally remarkable for its careful and minute
presentation of the phenomena of death and for the placid and philosophical spirit in which
it is written:--Deluge, in which, with the ingenuity before shown in the treatment of similar
subjects, the various accounts of that event, and the facts and theories relating to it, are
laid before the reader in a manner to which no one, of whatever creed, can object, and a new
and very ingenious and rational mode of accounting for the phenomenon in question is proposed;--Dog,
the fulness of which makes it acceptable to the lover of natural history, the sporting man,
and the general reader:--and the last article, Education, one of great value, which describes
the systems of instruction pursued in all ages and countries, and which, without entering upon
the support of any one of them, presents to the reader such an impartial and detailed summary
of the distinguishing features of them all, that he can form an intelligent opinion upon them
for himself.

The volume is so meritorious, that we have not looked for faults; but, as we turned the leaves,
we noticed a few such as the following:--that the river Dove, in England, should be mentioned
as "noted for its picturesque scenery," and yet its association with Izaak Walton and Charles
Cotton, its chief glory, be passed unnoticed; and that Discord should be defined as, "in music,
a combination of sounds inharmonious and unpleasing to the ear"; whereas, although, out of
music, discord means a sound inharmonious and displeasing to the ear, in music discord is the
golden bond of harmony, the life and soul of expression, that for which the ear yearns with
a yearning that is inexpressible, and enjoys with poignancy of pleasure. We asked, too, if
Thomas Dowse should be honored with a page and a half, in which his fall from a tree, his rheumatic
fever, and the head winds which prevented him from visiting Europe are chronicled,--while the
eminent French painter, Couture, whose use of the pallet is marked by such striking originality,
that it has produced an impression upon the works of a generation of painters, has twelve lines!
And we can hardly be accused of hypercriticism, in directing the attention of the editors to
a sentence like the following, in the article Diptera, p. 498, 2d col.:--"Though this order
contains the bloodthirsty mosquito, the disgusting flesh-fly, and many insects depositing their
eggs in the bodies of living animals, it is a most useful one, supplying food to insectivorous
birds, and themselves [who? what?] consuming decomposing animal and vegetable substances,"
etc. But these are instances of oversight in not very important matters, or of inaccuracy of
expression, or of difference of judgment between the editors and ourselves as to plan, which
even in our judgment do not affect the value of the work in which they occur. Graver errors
could be found in almost every work of great scope that ever came from the press. We indicate
them that we may afford some help toward a nearer approximation to that perfection which is
unattainable. 1859.

Many men write successful books; but very few have the power of making a book succeed by naturalness,
simplicity, and quiet strength, as Mr. Hughes found the secret of doing in his "School-Days
at Rugby." It is so easy to be eloquent,--scarce a modern French novelist but has the gift
of it by the ream; so easy to be philosophical,--one has only to begin a few substantives with
capitals; and withal it is so hard to be genial and agreeable. Since Goldsmith's day, perhaps
only Irving and Thackeray had achieved it, till Mr. Hughes made himself the third. It is no
easy thing to write a book that shall seem so easy,--to describe your school-days with such
instinctive rejection of the unessential, that whoever has been a boy feels as if he were reading
the history of his own, and that your volume shall be no more exotic in America than in England.
Yet this Mr. Hughes accomplished; and it was in a great measure due to the fact, that beneath
the charm of style the reader felt a real basis of manliness and sincerity.

His second book, "The Scouring of the White Horse," was less successful,--in part from the
narrower range of its interest, and still more, perhaps, because it lacked the spontaneousness
of the "School-Days." In his first book there was no suggestion of authorship; it seemed an
inadvertence, something which came of itself;--but the second was made, and the kind fairy
that stood godmother to its elder brother had been sent for and accordingly would not come.

In this first number of his new story Mr. Hughes seems to have found his good genius again,
or his good genius to have found him. We meet our old friend Tom Brown once more, and commit
ourselves trustingly to the same easy current of narrative and incident which was so delightful
in the story of his Rugby adventures. We have no doubt the book will be instructive as well
as entertaining; for we believe the author has had some practical experience as teacher in
"The Working-Men's College,"--an excellent institution, in which instruction is given to the
poor after work-hours, and which, beside Mr. Hughes, has had another man of genius, Mr. Ruskin,
among its unpaid professors. The work is to be published simultaneously in this country and
in England.

Avolio; a Legend of the Inland of Cos, with other Poems, Lyrical, Miscellaneous, and Dramatic.
By PAUL H. HAYNE. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1859. pp. 244.

There is a great deal of real poetic feeling and expression in this volume, and, we think,
the hope of better things to come. The author has not yet learned, and we could not expect
it, that writers of verse tell us all they can think of, and writers of poetry only what they
cannot help telling. The volume would have gained in quality by losing in quantity, but to
give too much is the mistake of all young writers, and it is, perhaps, only by making it once
for themselves that they can learn to sift. It is so hard at first, when all the sand seems
golden! Of old the Muses were three, each of whom must reject something from the poem, but
when verse-writing became easier and more traditional, their number was raised to nine, that
they might be the harder to please. And what a difficult jury they are! and how long they stay
out over their verdict!

But, after all, it seems to us that Mr. Hayne has the root of the matter in him; and we shall
look to meet him again, bringing a thinner, yet a fuller book. The present volume shows thoughtfulness,
culture, sensibility to natural beauty, and great refinement of feeling. We like the first
poem, which is also the longest, best of all. The subject is an imaginative one,--and the choice
of a subject is one great test of genuine aptitude and ability. In this poem, and in some of
the sonnets, (which are good both in matter and construction,) Mr. Hayne shows a genuine vigor
of expression and maturity of purpose. There is a tone of sadness in the volume, as if the
author were surrounded by an atmosphere uncongenial to letters. The reader cannot fail to be
struck with this, and also with the oddity of two or three political sonnets, in which Mr.
Hayne calls on his fellow-citizens to rally for the defence of slavery in the name of freedom.
The book is dedicated, in a very graceful and cordial sonnet, to Mr. E.P. Whipple; and it is
seldom that South Carolina sends so pleasant a message to Massachusetts. Mr. Hayne need only
persevere in self-culture to be able to produce poems that shall win for him a national reputation.

Fairy Dreams; or Wanderings in Elfland. By JANE G. AUSTIN. With Illustrations by Hammatt Billings.
Boston: J.E. Tilton & Co. 1859.

This is a pretty book for children, written with no little feeling and fancy, and in a graceful
style. The chimney-corner has been abolished by the economical furnace-register, and Santa
Claus, if he come at all, must do it like an imp of the pit. The volumes for children to pore
over, as they bake by the stove, or stew over the black hole in the floor, have also suffered
an economic and practical change. No more fires, no more pretty fancies, seems to have been
the doom. Parents who think, as we do, that children inhale practicality with our American
atmosphere, and that a little encouragement of the imaginative side of their nature is not
amiss, will be glad to drop Mrs. Austin's book into the proper stocking. The stories are well
told; that, especially, of the Gray Cat is full of fanciful invention. The book is very prettily
manufactured also, though we think publishers are carrying their fondness for tinted paper
too far. Salmon-color is too much; the deepest tint allowable is that of cream from a cow that
has grazed among buttercups.

Twelve Years of a Soldier's Life in India: Being Extracts from the Letters of the late Major
W.S.R. HODSON, B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge; First Bengal European Fusileers, Commandant
of Hodson's Horse. Including a Personal Narrative of the Siege of Delhi and Capture of the
King and Princes. Edited by his Brother, the Rev. GEORGE H. HODSON, M.A., Senior Fellow of
Trinity College, Cambridge. From the Third and Enlarged English Edition. Boston: Ticknor &
Fields. 1860. 16mo. pp. 444.

This book should be widely read; or we might better say, this book will be widely read,--so
widely, indeed, that there is no need for us to repeat its story here, or to give an abstract
of its contents. Hodson was a man worth knowing, and his letters show him to us as he was.
The special qualities of which Englishmen are proud, as the traits of national character, belonged
in an uncommon degree to him. He was eminently truthful, staunch, and brave; he had a clear
eye, a strong and ready hand, cool judgment, stern decision, and a tender heart. He might have
borne the old Douglas motto on his shield.

He was trained under as good teachers as a young man ever had. At Rugby, under Dr. Arnold;
then, for a year or two, living among the ennobling associations of Trinity College; then at
Guernsey, as a young soldier, under Sir William Napier; then in India, with James Thomason,
Lieutenant-Governor of the Northwest Provinces, one of the best rulers that India ever knew,
"facile princeps of the whole Indian service"; and finally passing from him to serve under
Sir Henry Lawrence, the noblest soldier of India, a man for whom common words of praise are
insufficient,--Hodson had an unrivalled set of masters, and his life proves him to have been
worthy of them.

The British rule in India is of such sort as to test the qualities of its officers to the last
point. If they have anything good in them, it is sure to be brought into full action. Such
responsibilities are thrown on them as at once to stimulate them to exertion of their best
powers. Men who in the ordinary fields of work might remain all their lives mere commonplace
mediocrities, under the discipline of Indian service, find out and show their real value. The
Indian mutiny exhibited how common the rare qualities of foresight, energy, and enduring courage,
and the still higher qualities of submission, patience, and faith, had become among those against
whom the natives rose like a flood to overwhelm them in destruction. The little bands of English
at Cawnpore, at Lucknow, and at many a less famous station, stood like rocks against the dashing
of the storm. The qualities that enabled them to win the admiration even of their enemies,
and to call forth the respect and the sorrow of the world, were the result, not of sudden stress,
but of long and habitual training. The reader of Hodson's memoir will gain a knowledge of the
processes by which such characters are developed.

The letters which make up the larger part of this book are written with animation and simplicity,
and are full of spirited accounts of adventure, of rough and various service. The narrative
which they afford of the siege of Delhi is of absorbing interest. The picture of the little
army of besiegers, wasted by continual disease and exposure to the heats of an Indian summer,--worn
by the constant sallies and attacks of a host of enemies trained in arms,--saddened by the
receipt of evil tidings from all quarters,--feeling that upon their final success rested not
only the hope of the continuance of British supremacy in India, but the very lives of those
dear to them,--and, worst of all, compelled to submit to a succession of incompetent generals,
whose timidity and irresolution baffled the best designs of officers and the dashing bravery
of the troops;--the pictures which Hodson gives of this little army, of its unflagging spirit
and resolution, and its valorous deeds, are drawn with such truth as to bring the successive
scenes vividly before the imagination. Hodson himself was one of the best and most useful of
a noble corps of officers. His modesty does not hide the grounds of the enthusiasm which was
felt for him by his men,--of the admiration that he excited among his fellows. The story of
the capture of the King and Princes, after the fall of Delhi, is one of the most interesting
stories of daring ever told. You hold your breath as you read it. It was a gallant deed, done
in the most gallant way.

Altogether, the book is one of thoroughly manly tone and temper,--a book to make those who
read it manlier, to put to shame the cowardice of easy life, to make men more honest, more
enduring, more energetic, by the example which it sets before them. Hodson's life was short,
but its result will last. There was no sham about it, no meanness,--nothing but what was large,
true, and generous. As one turns the last page, it is with no regret that such a man should
have died in the fight, for he was a Christian soldier. He was the preux chevalier of our times.
The words in which Sir Ector mourns for his brother, Sir Lancelot, are fit for his epitaph.

Friends in Council. A Series of Readings and Discourse thereon. A New Series. 2 vols. Boston:
James Munroe & Co. 1860.

The best class of readers in England and America are sure to give a cordial welcome to a new
book by Mr. Helps. Nothing better need be said of this second series of "Friends in Council"
than that it is a worthy sequel of the first. It is the work of a man of large experience and
wide culture,--of one who is at the same time a student and a man of the world, versed in history
and practically acquainted with affairs. Refined thoughtfulness and common sense combine to
give value to all that Mr. Helps writes, and he is master of a style at once manly and elegant,
quiet and strong.

Such books have a special worth in these days of hasty writing. They admit one to the companionship
of thoughtful, well-mannered gentlemen. One feels that he has been in good company, after reading
them; and, whatever he may have gained of wisdom from the friends he has met in council, he
is also improved in temper and in manners by their society.

The conversations which form the setting of the essays in these volumes enable Mr. Helps to
present in an easy and effective way various sides of the important questions that he discusses.
Completeness of statement is rarely to be obtained upon any of the deeper topics of life. If
the golden side be displayed, the silver side is likely to be hidden. The same man holds various,
though not irreconcilable opinions upon the same subject, according to the different lights
in which he views it or the different phases it presents. The most honest man must sometimes
appear inconsistent for the sake of truth; and the clearer a man's own convictions, the wider
will be his charity for those of others. Mr. Helps exhibits admirably this natural and necessary
diversity of thought, existing even where there is a coincidence of principle and of aim.

The essays upon War and Despotism are, perhaps, the ablest in these volumes, and deserve to
be seriously viewed in the light of passing events. They are distinguished by freedom from
exaggeration and by their moderation of statement. As in so many of the productions of the
best English writers at the present day, something of despondency in regard to the condition
of the world is to be traced in them. And truly, to one who looks at the state of Europe and
of our own country, there is more need for faith than ground of hope.

But at this Christmas season, this season of peace and good-will, let all our readers read
the essay on Pleasantness. And if they will but take its teachings to heart, we can wish them,
with the certainty of the fulfilment of our wish, a merry Christmas and a happy New Year.

The Marvellous Adventures and Rare Conceits of Master Tyll Owlglass. Newly collected, etc.,
by KENNETH R.H. MACKENZIE. With Illustrations by Crowquill. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1860.
pp. xxxix., 255.

This is a very beautiful edition of a very amusing book. The preface and notes of Mr. Mackenzie
will commend it to scholars, while the stories themselves will divert both young and old. A
book of this kind, which can keep life in itself for more than three hundred years, must have
some real humor and force at bottom. It is as good a specimen of mediaeval fun as could anywhere
be found. With nothing like the satiric humor of the "Epistolae Obscurorum Virorum," it appeals
to a much larger circle of readers. We are very glad to meet it again in so handsome a dress,
and with such really clever illustrations. It is just the book for a Christmas gift. 1860. pp. 226.

It is very well that Mr. Arnold should tell us on the title-page that his version is after
that of Goethe. Nothing could be truer,--and it is a very long way after, too. By substituting
the slow and verbose pentameter of what is called the classic school of English poetry for
the remarkably forth-right and simple eight-syllabic measure of the original, the translator
has contrived to lose almost wholly that homely flavor of the old poet, which Goethe carefully
preserved. We do not mean to say that this is altogether a bad version, as such things go;
on the contrary, it has a great deal of spirit, as it could hardly fail to have, unless it
belied its model altogether;--but it is as far as possible from giving any notion of the characteristic
qualities of "Reinaert de Vos." If Mr. Arnold must change the measure, Chaucer's "Nonnes Preestes
Tale" would have been a safer guide to follow.

The book, in spite of its American title-page, is wholly of English manufacture. It is a very
handsome volume, and Kaulbach's illustrations are copied with tolerable success, though with
inevitable inferiority to the German originals. Kaulbach is hardly so happy an animal-painter
as Grandville, but he has at least given his subjects in this case a more human expression
than in his monstrous caricatures of Shakspeare.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A Complete and Cheap Edition of the Entire Writings of Charles Dickens. To be completed in
28 Weekly Volumes. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo. pamphlet. Per vol., 25 cts.

Mount Vernon and its Associations, Historical, Biographical, and Pictorial. By Benson J. Lossing.
Illustrated by Numerous Engravings, chiefly from Original Drawings by the Author, engraved
by Lossing & Barritt. New York. W.A. Townsend & Co. 4to. pp. 376. $3.50.

Proceedings and Debates of the Third National Quarantine and Sanitary Convention, held in the
City of New York, April 27-30, 1859. New York. Printed for the Board of Councilmen. 8vo. pp. 728.

