"You are both jealous. And it does not become you who wore such a long face because she went
away. I suppose you can see now that she cares more for some one else."

She caught sight of his face, and would have slipped past him, but he stood before her. Then
she was afraid. He was afraid of himself; he had to keep back his hands from taking hold of her.

"Do not ever speak to me like that again," he said, slowly, after a little. "You are not fit--"
but he broke off, and left her abruptly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stella sent Eugene away the same evening. After that she avoided Lawrence; there was something
abhorrent to all her instincts in meeting him now with that repulsive understanding between
them. And, for his part, that detestable suggestion of Cora's put upon Enfield a kindred restraint
and at the same time gave him the key to Stella's feeling, so that her influence upon him was
rather strengthened than otherwise by the reserve which came between them.

Enfield wrote to his medical friend soon afterward, recommending young Winlock to his favorable
notice; and in due time an arrangement was made to the young surgeon's advantage. When Stella
knew that the affair was pleasantly completed, she took the first opportunity to thank Enfield
frankly and warmly. And the warmth he brought away from the brief interview was one that helped
him to be gentle and forbearing at home and altogether true; and it did not cease to help him
when Kate Marlake got up again and he saw Stella less and less often, nor even when, by and
by, she went away South again.

Months passed by and made a heavy drain on all his resources. He found life hard to endure.
One day, when it seemed quite intolerable and he was casting vainly about, his heart went out
to his old friend Loramer. He went to see him. The grip and smile of the fellow warmed him
like wine. They spent the day together. He brought Loramer home with him. They sat, walked,
rode, talked together by day and by night, and were happy. They said nothing about Cora, but
thought many things. The little that Loramer saw of her, he chaffed and made merry. One day,
looking for Lawrence, he found him out, and Cora alone. She bade him come and sit down, and
began a chat, but he would only laugh and answer quizzingly, working cat's cradles with her
worsted and big needles. She grew silent under his banter, eying him furtively and stitching
away with her head bent. After a while he held a comical figure before her face. She could
not help joining in his laugh, but she stopped short, and began to sob and cry. She stood up,
letting her work go where it would.

"You've no business to laugh at me, Harry Loramer," she complained. "You and Lawrence are chatting
and laughing all day and all night, and have no more regard for my feelings than if I were
wood or stone."

She hid her face, and went out sobbing. Loramer laughed less after that. Lawrence had to take
a long ride, and Loramer proposed they should all go together. He and Cora rode on a little
way while Lawrence made his call. They rode together every day after that, but Lawrence could
not always be one of the party.

Naturally, Lawrence and Loramer found less to talk about, and sat less together. When his time
came, Lawrence did not press Loramer to stay, but he did not go. Three days later Lawrence
came home and met Loramer coming out of the house. Their greeting was brief and cold. Lawrence
went in and found Cora.

He could not speak at first.

"What deviltry are you at now?" he demanded.

She tried to pass out, but he took hold of her by the shoulders, and made her hear.

"Listen to me," he said. "Do you know what you are doing? If you have no shame or pity, have
you no fear? Don't try me too far, I tell you it's not safe."

His grasp hurt her cruelly, but she kept her head away, and made no sound.

Two hours later, Lawrence came home again and found no one in his house. He had a call to make
to the west. Three miles out he turned into a bridle-path that led up to a height. Presently
he came in sight of the top. The shadows were thick about him, but above the sunset flushed
splendidly. On the crest sat two riders, close together. He bowed his head and rode away.

"Harry, you are a coward!" Cora was saying. "Oh, I wish I were a man!" She raised her arm with
a passionate gesture. "We loved each other from the first, and he drove you away. I never cared
for him; I had to marry him. And I tell you we live in misery. We are nothing but a torment
to each other. And you do not know him. He is in love with another woman, and he is cruel.
Look here!"

She threw back her mantle and slid her supple shoulder out of her dress.

"Those are the marks of his fingers!"

His gaze was bent upon her, his eyes seemed drawn beyond his control; he trembled, and caught
his breath. But he broke the spell. He sat up. He found his voice, thick and low:

"Don't tempt me. I am his friend; you are his wife."

She looked to right and left, then turned and took hold of his arm.

"Listen to me!" she commanded. "Bend down your head,--lower, lower!" She looked in his face
intently; she put her own close and said, "I am not his wife!"

A dumb, incredulous stare was his reply. He frowned and shook his head.

"You don't believe me?" she cried. "Come home, I will show you."

She turned her horse, struck him with the whip, and plunged recklessly down the steep path.
He could not overtake her till she reined up and walked through the village street.

"Go into the parlor," she said, "and wait till I come."

She ran up-stairs. She asked for Lawrence. He was out,--would not be back till eight. She looked
at her watch. Not quite seven. From a locked drawer she took a locked jewel-box and from under
the lining a written paper with a printed slip pinned to it.

She came down and into the parlor with her hand in her pocket, walked up to Loramer where he
stood before the fire, gave him the paper, and sat down to watch him. It was a certificate
of marriage between Cora Brainard and Clarence A. Harlow, dated three years back, and signed
by an eccentric clergyman, across the mountain. A feeling of sickness came over Loramer.

"Then you are Harlow's wife," he said.

"No, I am no man's wife," she answered, impatiently. "Read on; read the newspaper slip."

He read: "On board U. S. S. 'Tuscaloosa,' off Cherbourg, Oct. 20th, Ensign Clarence A. Harlow,
aged twenty-four, by the bursting of a gun."

As Loramer lifted his eyes the door opened and Lawrence came in. Cora uttered a low cry and
reached for the paper, but Lawrence's look frightened her so that she fell back into her chair.
He kept his eyes upon her, but went toward Loramer and reached out a cigar-case which he brought
in his hand.

"Here's your cigar-case," he said. "You'd better take it back."

Loramer swore at the case, and flung it into the fire.

"Look here!" he cried. "Read that." He thrust it before his face. "Go on! Do you see? She was
his wife when she married you. You're a free man!"

A brutal exultation seized Lawrence. He shouted and laughed,--"Ha ha, ha ha ha! She's made
fools of us both. You can have her, Harry, and welcome. I wish you joy. Ha ha, ha ha ha! She's
the devil! she's the devil!"

Loramer answered with harsh and scornful hilarity. Neither took any other notice of her sitting
there, sunken together, crushed, hiding her face with her hands. Loramer turned away and ran
tramping up the stairs, crammed his things into his valise, and came tramping down. Lawrence
was backed against the post at the stair-foot. Loramer grasped his arm in passing. "By-bye!
Come and see us," he called. He went out and banged the door, and they heard his hoarse laughter
far down the quiet street.

To Cora that laughter sounded like the knell at the end of all things. She sat as they had
left her, and did not move for a long while after Lawrence too had gone out.

Lawrence's mirthful humor passed very quickly. He grew full of a most delectable sense of freedom.
It seemed as if a suffocating network had been tightening about his heart and, now that it
had burst, the joy of the great and unexpected deliverance was more than his breast could hold.
He could not breathe in-doors,--he wanted all the air he could get on the windy hills.

He had been true; he had been true, he cried out to himself--in thought and deed he had been
true! He tried to think: he could not think nor reason. A flood that he had never acknowledged,
that he had hardly suspected, that he had set all his faculties to dam up and wall over, had
been suddenly let loose and overwhelmed him. He could see no law or order in the world but
in one place; to that place he must go, for light, for understanding!

     And his heart, like a bird set free,
       That tarries not early or late,
     But flies, over land, over sea,
       Straight, straight to its home, to its mate!

All the night seemed to break out and sing. All the world yearned one way; the stars leaned
out of their courses and looked, not at him, but south; the north wind went by him, crooning,
hurrying, and the moon sailed southward past the ragged clouds. All his soul went out with
them, and his body sickened to follow.

He came home and changed his dress. It was late. He lighted no lamp; the ghostly moonlight
streamed through the window, and a figure as still and ghost-like stood at the door.

"Lawrence! Lawrence!" she called, despairingly. But he did not seem to hear. He felt no hardness
toward her; she had brought him the great deliverance as well as the grievous bondage. But
he could no more heed her now than turn back if he were drawn by unbridled horses and some
one cried behind. But when at last he came to go out, he almost stumbled upon her lying across
the door. He stooped and picked her up; she was as cold as stone. She clung about his neck.
The tempest had come; her ship was a wreck, the dark waves tumbling about her and dashing her
with their salt spray. She clung to the strong swimmer she had flouted when winds were sweet,
but was afraid she came too late.

"I could not help it; he deserted me basely. Oh, Lawrence, do not cast me off!" she implored.
"Do not go away. Pity me; I am very miserable. I should not have done that if you had not forsaken
me. No one ever helped me but you, and I have not been happy, you know I have not. I do not
know what will become of me if you put me away. I won't vex you any more; before God I will
not! You have me at your mercy; will you not be merciful?"

He laid her on the bed and wrapped her up. He spoke in a deep, solemn voice:

"Be still. I cannot hear you to-night. I have been merciful. I will try to do what is right.
I am going away now; wait till I come back."

He took the midnight train south. Stella was out of town. He followed her. He felt that he
could not meet her before strangers with self-control, or go through formalities. He wrote
a brief note at the hotel asking to see her alone. Then he shrank from the thought of meeting
her with detestable things to explain, and he added:

"I should like you to know my altered position before we meet. I shrink from shocking you by
a personal explanation painful to us both. Forgive me, then, for inclosing papers which will
inform you."

The messenger brought back a note which showed marks of agitation:

"Please excuse me to-night. I will walk on the beach early in the morning."

