It hurt me to appear so craven. But with it all, I knew that Hanley understood. He could imagine
my leering captor standing at my elbow, prompting my words, dictating my very tone--prodding
me with a knife in the ribs. I tried, by every shade of meaning, to convey to Hanley that I
hoped to escape and save the ransom money. And I think that he guessed it, though he was wary
in the tone he used for De Boer to hear. He accepted, unhesitatingly, De Boer's proposition:
assured us he would do nothing to assail De Boer; and never once did his grim face convey a
hint of anything but complete acquiescence.

       *       *       *       *       *

We had President Markes on the circuit. De Boer, with nothing to lose, promised to return Jetta
with me. In gold coin, sixty thousand U. S. dollar-standards for me; a third as much from Nareda,
for Jetta.

The details were swiftly arranged. We cut the circuit. I had a last look at Hanley's face as
the image of it faded. He seemed trying to tell me to do the best I could; that he was powerless,
and would do nothing to jeopardize my life and Jetta's. Everything was ready for the affair
to be consummated at once. The weather was right; there was time for Hanley and De Boer each
comfortably to reach the assigned meeting place.

We flew, for the first hour, nearly due west. The meeting place was at 35 deg. N. by 59 deg.
W., a few hundred miles east by north of the fairy-like mountaintop of the Bermudas. Our charts
showed the Lowlands there to run down to what once was measured as nearly three thousand fathoms--called
now eighteen thousand feet below the zero-height. A broken region, a depth-ridge fairly level,
and no Lowland sea, nor any settlements in the neighborhood.

The time was set at an hour before midnight. No mail, passenger or freight flyers were scheduled
to pass near there at that hour, and, save for some chance private craft, we would be undisturbed.
The ransom gold was available to Hanley. He had said he would bring it in his personal Wasp.

       *       *       *       *       *

The details of the exchange were simple. Hanley, with only one mechanic, would hover at the
zero-height, his Wasp lighted so that we could see it plainly. The wind drift, according to
forecast, would be southerly. At 11 P.M. Hanley would release from his Wasp a small helium-gas
baloon-car--a ten-foot basket with the supporting gas bag above it, weighted so that it would
slowly descend into the depths, with a southern drift.

Our flyer, invisible and soundless, would pick up the baloon-car at some point in its descent.
The gold would be there, in a black casket. De Boer would take the gold, deposit Jetta and
me in the car, and release it again. And when the balloon finally settled to the rocks beneath,
Hanley could pick it up. No men would be hidden by Hanley in that basket. De Boer had stipulated
that when casting loose the balloon, its car must be swept by Hanley with a visible electronic
ray. No hidden men could withstand that blast!

Such was the arrangement with Hanley. I was convinced that he intended to carry it out to the
letter. He would have his own invisible X-flyer in the neighborhood, no doubt. But it would
not interfere with the safe transfer of Jetta and me.

That De Boer would carry out his part, Hanley could only trust. He had said so this afternoon
bluntly. And De Boer had laughed and interposed his voice in our circuit.

"Government money against these two lives, Hanley! Of course you have to trust me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a flight, for us, of something less than four hours to the meeting place. Hans was piloting,
seated alone in the little cubby upon the forward wing-base, directly over the control room.
De Boer, with Jetta at his side, worked over his course and watched his instrument banks. I
was, at the start of the flight, lashed in a chair of the control room, my ankles and wrists
tied and Gutierrez guarding me.

Jetta did not seem to notice me. She did not look at me, nor I at her. She pretended interest
only in the success of the transfer; in her father's treasure on board, the coming ransom money,
and then a flight to Cape Town, dividing the treasure only with Hans and Gutierrez; and in
her marriage with De Boer. She said she wanted me returned to Hanley alive; craven coward that
I was, still I did not deserve death. De Boer had agreed. But I knew that at last, as they
tumbled me into the basket, someone would slip a knife into me!

I had, as we came on board, just the chance for a few whispered sentences with Jetta. But they
were enough! We both knew what we had to do. Desperate expedient, indeed! It seemed more desperate
now as the time approached than it had when I planned it.

The weather at 7 P.M. was heavily overcast. Sultry, breathless, with solid, wide-flung cloud
areas spread low over the zero-height. Night settled black in the Lowlands. The mists gathered.

We flew well down--under the minus two thousand-foot level--so that out of the mists the highest
dome peaks often passed close beneath us.

       *       *       *       *       *

At 8 P.M. De Boer flung on the mechanism of invisibility. The interior of the ship faded to
its gruesome green darkness. My senses reeled as the current surged through me. Lashed in my
chair, I sat straining my adjusting eyes, straining my hearing to cope with this gruesome unreality.
And my heart was pounding. Would Jetta and I succeed? Or was our love--unspoken love, born
of a glance and the pressure of our hands in that moonlit Nareda garden--was our love star-crossed,
foredoomed to tragedy? A few hours, now, would tell us.

De Boer was taking no chances. He was using his greatest intensity of power, with every safeguard
for complete invisibility and silence. From where I sat I could make out the black form of
Hans through the ceiling grid, at his pilot controls in the overhead cubby. A queer glow like
an aura was around him. The same green radiance suffused the control room. It could not penetrate
the opened windows of the ship; could not pass beyond the electro-magnetic field enveloping
us. Nor could the curious hum which permeated the ship's interior get past the barrage barrier.
From outside, I knew, we were invisible and inaudible.

Strange unreality, here in the control room! The black-garbed figures of De Boer and Jetta
at their table were unreal, spectral. At the door oval, which I could barely see, Gutierrez
lurked like a shadow. All of them, and Hans in the cubby above, were garbed in tight-fitting
dead-black suits of silklene fabric. Thin, elastic as sheer silk web, opaque, lustreless. It
covered their feet, legs and bodies; and their arms and hands like black, silk gloves. Their
heads were helmeted with it. And they had black masks which as yet were flapped up and fastened
to the helmet above their foreheads. Their faces only were exposed, tinted a ghastly, lurid
green by this strange light. It glowed and glistened like phosphorescence on their eyeballs,
making them the eyes of animals in a hunter's torchlight, at night.

       *       *       *       *       *

De Boer moved upon an errand across the control room. He was a burly black spectre in the skin-tight
suit. His footfalls faintly sounded on the metal floor. They were toneless footfalls. Unreal.
They might have been bells, or jangling thuds; they had lost their identity in this soundless,
vibrating hum.

And he spoke, "We are making good progress, Jetta. We will be on time."

Ghastly voice! So devoid of every human timbre, every overtone shade to give it meaning, that
it might have been a man's voice, or a woman's, the voice of something living, or something
dead. Sepulchral. A stripped shell of voice. Yet to me, inside here with it, it was perfectly
audible.

And Jetta said, "Yes, Hendrick, that is good."

A voice like his: no different.

Gruesome. Weird.

       *       *       *       *       *

I try now to picture the scene in detail, for out of these strange conditions Jetta and I were
to make our opportunity.

9 P.M. De Boer was a methodical fellow. He checked his position on the chart. He signalled
the routine orders to Hans. And he gestured to Gutierrez. The movements and acts of everyone
had been definitely planned. And this, too, Jetta and I had anticipated.

"Time to make him ready, Gutierrez. Bring the sack in here. I'll fasten him away."

I was not garbed like the others. They could move out on the wing runway under Hanley's eyes
at short range, or climb in and out of the balloon car, and not be visible.

Gutierrez brought the sack. A dead-black fabric.

"Shall I cut him loose now from his chair, Commander?"

"I'll do it."

De Boer drew a long knife blade, coated black, and thin and sharp as a half-length rapier.
Gutierrez had one of similar fashion. No electronic weapons were in evidence, probably because
the hiss of one fired would have been too loud for our barrage, and its flash too bright. But
a knife thrust is dark and silent!

The Spaniard's eyes were gleaming as he approached me with the bag, as though he were thinking
of that silent knife thrust he would give me at the last.

Dr. Boer said, "Stand up, Grant." He cut the fastenings that held me in my chair. But my ankles
and wrists remained tied.

"Stand up, can't you?"

"Yes."

       *       *       *       *       *

I got unsteadily to my feet. In the blurred green darkness I could see that Jetta was not looking
at me. Gutierrez held the mouth of the sack open. As though I were an upright log of wood,
De Boer lifted me.

"Pull it up over his feet, Gutierrez."

The oblong sack was longer than my body. They drew it over me, and bunched its top over my
head. And De Boer laid me none too gently on the floor.

"Lie still. Do you get enough air?"

"Yes."

The black fabric was sufficiently porous for me to breathe comfortably inside the sack.

"All right, Gutierrez, I have the gag."

I felt them carrying me from the control room, twenty feet or so along the corridor, where
a door-porte opened to a small balcony runway hung beneath the forward wing. Jutting from it
was a little take-off platform some six feet by twelve in size. It was here that the balloon-basket
was to be boarded. The casket containing the ransom gold would be landed here, and the sack
containing me placed in the car and cast loose. It was all within the area of invisibility
of our flyer.

De Boer knelt over me, and drew back the top of the sack to expose my face.

"A little gag for you, Grant, so you will not be tempted to call out."

"I won't do that."

"You might. Well, good-by, American."

"Good-by." And I breathed, "Good-by Jetta." Would I ever see her again? Was this the end of
everything for us?

       *       *       *       *       *

He forced the gag into my mouth, tied it, and verified that my ankles and wrists were securely
lashed. In the green radiance he and Gutierrez were like ghouls prowling over me, and their
muffled toneless voices, tomblike.

The sack came up over my head.

"Good-by, Grant." I could not tell which one said it. And the other chuckled.

I could feel them tying the mouth of the sack above my head. I lay stiff. Then I heard their
steps. Then silence.

I moved. I might have rolled, but I did not try it. I could raise my knees within the sack--double
up like a folded pocket knife--but that was all.

A long, dark silence. It seemed interminable. Was Gutierrez guarding me here in the corridor?
I could not tell; I heard nothing save the vague hum of the electronite current.

It had been 9 o'clock. Then I fancied that it must be 10. And then, perhaps, almost 11. I wondered
what the weather outside was like. Soon we would be nearing the meeting place. Would Hanley
be there? Would Jetta soon, very soon now, be able to do her part? I listened, horribly tense,
with every interval between the thumps of my heart seeming so long a gap of waiting.

       *       *       *       *       *

I heard a sound! A toneless, unidentifiable sound. Another like it; a little sequence of faint
sounds. Growing louder. Approaching footsteps? Jetta's? I prayed so.

Then a low voice. Two voices. Both the same in quality. But from the words I could identify them.

"Hello, Gutierrez."

"Niña, hello."

Jetta! She had come!

"The captive is safe? No trouble?"

"No. He has not moved."

"Careful of him, Gutierrez. He is worth a lot of money to us."

"Well you say it. Señorita. In half an hour now, we will be away. Santa Maria, when this is
over I shall breathe with more comfort!"

"We'll have no trouble, Gutierrez. We're almost there. In ten minutes now, or a little more."

"So soon? What time is it?"

"Well, after half-past ten. When it's over, Gutierrez, we head for Cape Town. Clever of me,
don't you think, to persuade Hendrick to take us to Cape Town? Just you three men to divide
all this treasure. It would be foolish to let a hundred others have it."

"True, Niña; true enough."

"I insisted upon you and Hans--Gutierrez, what is that?"

A silence.

"I heard nothing."

"A voice, was it?"

"The Americano?"

"No! No--the commander calling? Was it? Calling you, Gutierrez? Perhaps we have sighted Hanley's
Wasp. Go! I'll stand here, and come quickly back."

       *       *       *       *       *

Footsteps. Now! Our chance, come at last! I twisted over on my side, and lay motionless. Ah,
if only those were Gutierrez' fading footfalls! And Jetta, here alone with me in the green
darkness! Just for this one vital moment.

Fingers were fumbling at the top of my sack, unfastening the cord. Hands and arms came swiftly
in. Fingers ran down my back as I lay on my side to admit them quickly. Fingers went fumbling
at the cords that lashed my crossed wrists behind me. A knee pressed against me. A hurried,
panting, half sobbing breath close over me--

Just a hurried moment. The hands withdrew. The sack went back over my head. The knees, the
slight weight against me, was gone. A few seconds only.

Footsteps. The voices again.

"Was it the commander, Gutierrez?"

"No. I do not know what it was. Nothing, probably."

"The Wasp in sight?"

"Not yet, Niña. You had best go back: De Boer, he might be jealous of us, no? He is busy with
his instruments, but should he realize you are here, talking with me--"

"Senseless, Gutierrez!"

"Is it so, Niña? I have no attraction? Go back to him. Gold I want, not trouble over you!"

Faint laughter.

"When we sight the Wasp, I'll call and tell you, Gutierrez. Too bad you won't let me stay with
you. I like you."

"Yes. But go now!"

Faint laughter. Footsteps. Then silence.

Our vital moment had come and passed. And Jetta had done her part; the role of action upon
this dim lurid stage was now mine to play.

My hands were free.

CHAPTER XVIII

The Combat in the Green Darkness

Another interval. A dead, dark silence. I did not dare move. Gutierrez was here, within a few
feet of me, probably. I wondered if he could see the outlines of the black sack. Doubtless
they were very vague. But if I exposed my flesh, my face, my hands, that would at once attract
his attention.

I worked the loosened cords from my wrists; moved my stiffened hands until, with returning
blood, the strength came to them. I could not reach my bound ankles without doubling up my
knees. I did not dare chance such a movement of the sack. But, after a moment, I got my hands
in front of me.

Then I took the gag from my mouth and, with a cautious hand, pried at the top of the sack where
it was bunched over my head. Its fastening was loose.

Another interval. A dim muffled voice; "The Wasp is in sight, Gutierrez!"

A movement--a sound like footsteps. Probably Gutierrez moving to the corridor window to glance
at Hanley's distant hovering flyer. I hoped it might be that: I had to take the chance.

       *       *       *       *       *

I slid the bag from my face. I feared an abrupt alarm, or Gutierrez leaping upon me. But there
was silence, and I saw his vague dark outlines at the window oval, five feet from me.

I got my ankles loose and slid the bag off. I was unsteady on my feet, but desperation aided me.

Gutierrez half turned as I gripped him from behind. My hand on his mouth stifled his outcry.
His black knife blade waved blindly. Then my clenched knuckle caught his temple, and dug with
the twisting Santus blow. I was expert at it, and I found the vulnerable spot.

He crumpled in my grasp, and I slid his falling body across the narrow corridor into the nearest
cubby oval.

Almost soundless; and in the control room Jetta and De Boer were murmuring and gazing at Hanley's
ship, which hung ahead and above us at the zero-height.

I had planned all my movements. No motion was lost. Gutierrez was about my height and build.
I stripped his black suit from him, donned it, then tied his ankles and wrists, and gagged
him against the time when he would recover consciousness. Then I stuffed his body in the sack
and tied its top.

This black suit had a mask, rolled up and fastened to the helmet. I loosed it, dropping it
over my face. Knife in hand, I stood at the corridor window.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was all black outside. The clouds were black overhead; the highest Lowland crags, several
thousand feet beneath us, were all but blotted out in the murky darkness. Only one thing was
to be seen: a quarter of a mile ahead, now, and a thousand feet higher than our level, the
shining, bird-like outlines of Hanley's hovering little Wasp. It stood like a painted image
of an aero, alone on a dead-black background. Red and green signal-lights dotted it, and on
its stern tip a small, spreading searchlight bathed the wings and the body with a revealing
silver radiance.

Our forward flight had been checked, and we, too, were hovering. Hans doubtless would remain
for a time in the pilot cubby; De Boer and Jetta were in the control room. It was only twenty
feet away, but I could barely see its oval entrance.

"Gutierrez!"

One of them was calling. My hollow empty voice echoed back as I softly responded:

"Yes?"

"Be ready. We are arrived."

"Yes, Commander. All is well."

I continued to stand at the window. Hanley's little balloon-car was visible now. Then he cut
it away. We had moved forward in the interval. The tiny car floated out almost above us.

My gaze searched the void of darkness outside. Did Hanley have an invisible flyer out there?
Perhaps so. But it could accomplish nothing as yet. It would not even dare approach, for fear
of collision with us.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tiny car, with a white pilot light in it, swayed with a slow descent. The basket beneath
the supporting balloon oscillated in a wide swing, then steadied. A sudden flash showed up
there--a flashing electronic stream, from Hanley's Wasp to the basket. The shot swept the basket
interior. No one could be hidden there and survive.

It was Hanley's proof to us that he was following instructions.

"Hah! He obeys properly, Jetta!"

The voice floated back to me from the control room. Could I creep in there, surprise De Boer
now, and kill him? Doubtless. But it would alarm Hans. I must await my chance to get them together.

"Gutierrez! Hans, get us under it! Gutierrez!"

The vague outline of De Boer came toward me in the corridor, burly dark blob. His mask was
down now. There were points of light, glowing like faint distant stars, to mark his eyes.

"Gutierrez."

"Yes."

A small black figure followed after him. Jetta.

"Yes, De Boer." I stood over the sack. "I am ready."

De Boer's giant shape towered beside me. Now! My knife thrust now! But Hans was coming toward
us. He would take alarm before I could reach him.

"Open the side porte, Gutierrez. Hurry, the car is here. Hans, you should have stayed up there!"

"The drift is calculated; the car is just here."

We were all swift-moving shadows; disembodied voices.

"Get that porte open."

"Yes." I opened it.

       *       *       *       *       *

We went outside on the runway. I passed close to Jetta, and just for an instant pressed my
gloved fingers on the black fabric of her arm--and she knew.

"Now, seize it."

"Here, Hans, climb up."

"I have it. Pull it, Gutierrez!"

The car drifted at us from the black void. We caught it.

"Hold it, Gutierrez."

"Hans, clip the balloon. Up with you."

In the blurred haste, I could not get them together. I did not want to kill one and have the
other leap upon me.

We fastened the little balloon and dragged the car onto the take-off platform. The shape of
Hans leaped into the car.

"It is here! The ransom money!"

"Lift it to me. Heavy?"

"Yes."

"Gutierrez, help me. Hurry! If Hanley tries any trickery--"

Our aero was drifting downward and southward in the slight wind. Hanley's Wasp still hovered
at the zero-height.

"In, Gutierrez."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hans and I hauled out the heavy casket and placed it on the wing runway. De Boer pried up its
lid. The gold was there. I could not tell where Jetta was; I prayed she would keep away from this.

Then the shape of De Boer was missing! But in a moment he appeared, dragging the sack.

"Lift him, Gutierrez. Hans, unclip the balloon and shove off the car!"

We were all standing at the two-foot rail of the runway. The car-basket, floating now, was
off side and level with us. My chance!

"In with him, Gutierrez."

I shoved the body, encased in its black sack, with Hans helping me. And suddenly De Boer's
knife came down at the sack! A stab. But an instinct to save the poor wretch within swept me.
I struck at De Boer's arm and deflected the blow. The sack tumbled into the car.

I had neglected whatever chance had existed. Too late now!

"What in the hell!"

De Boer's shape seized me.

"What--"

It sent me into a sudden confusion. I flung him off. I stumbled against the shape of Hans.

The car was almost loose; drifting away.

Without thought--a frantic impulse--I pushed Hans over the brink. He fell into the car. It
swayed into an oscillation with the impact. The balloon sank below our wing level and was gone,
with only Hans, muffled shouts floating up.

       *       *       *       *       *

And De Boer came leaping at me from behind. I whirled around. My danger was too much for the
watching Jetta. She screamed.

"Philip, look out for him!"

"Hah! The American. By damn, what is this?"

It gave De Boer pause. He gripped a wing stay-wire for a second.

Then he came with a rush.

The corridor door was open behind me. I flung myself into it--and collided with a shape.

"Philip!"

I shoved at her frantically.

"Jetta, get back! Away from us!"

I pulled at her, half falling. De Boer's shape came through the doorway into the corridor.
And was blotted out in the green darkness as he turned the other way, to avoid me if I struck.

A silence. The shadow of Jetta was behind me. I stood with poised knife, listening, straining
my eyes through the faint green darkness. De Boer was here, knife in hand, fallen now into
craftly, motionless silence. He might have been close here down the corridor. Or in any one
of these nearby cubby doorways.

