About the same time the Peloponnesians in the twenty-five ships stationed opposite to the squadron
at Naupactus to protect the passage of the transports to Sicily had got ready for engaging,
and manning some additional vessels, so as to be numerically little inferior to the Athenians,
anchored off Erineus in Achaia in the Rhypic country. The place off which they lay being in
the form of a crescent, the land forces furnished by the Corinthians and their allies on the
spot came up and ranged themselves upon the projecting headlands on either side, while the
fleet, under the command of Polyanthes, a Corinthian, held the intervening space and blocked
up the entrance. The Athenians under Diphilus now sailed out against them with thirty-three
ships from Naupactus, and the Corinthians, at first not moving, at length thought they saw
their opportunity, raised the signal, and advanced and engaged the Athenians. After an obstinate
struggle, the Corinthians lost three ships, and without sinking any altogether, disabled seven
of the enemy, which were struck prow to prow and had their foreships stove in by the Corinthian
vessels, whose cheeks had been strengthened for this very purpose. After an action of this
even character, in which either party could claim the victory (although the Athenians became
masters of the wrecks through the wind driving them out to sea, the Corinthians not putting
out again to meet them), the two combatants parted. No pursuit took place, and no prisoners
were made on either side; the Corinthians and Peloponnesians who were fighting near the shore
escaping with ease, and none of the Athenian vessels having been sunk. The Athenians now sailed
back to Naupactus, and the Corinthians immediately set up a trophy as victors, because they
had disabled a greater number of the enemy's ships. Moreover they held that they had not been
worsted, for the very same reason that their opponent held that he had not been victorious;
the Corinthians considering that they were conquerors, if not decidedly conquered, and the
Athenians thinking themselves vanquished, because not decidedly victorious. However, when the
Peloponnesians sailed off and their land forces had dispersed, the Athenians also set up a
trophy as victors in Achaia, about two miles and a quarter from Erineus, the Corinthian station.

This was the termination of the action at Naupactus. To return to Demosthenes and Eurymedon:
the Thurians having now got ready to join in the expedition with seven hundred heavy infantry
and three hundred darters, the two generals ordered the ships to sail along the coast to the
Crotonian territory, and meanwhile held a review of all the land forces upon the river Sybaris,
and then led them through the Thurian country. Arrived at the river Hylias, they here received
a message from the Crotonians, saying that they would not allow the army to pass through their
country; upon which the Athenians descended towards the shore, and bivouacked near the sea
and the mouth of the Hylias, where the fleet also met them, and the next day embarked and sailed
along the coast touching at all the cities except Locri, until they came to Petra in the Rhegian
territory.

