"Oh, then, your honour's as sharp as a needle entirely; but about that same lake it's a quare
story sure enough. A long time before there was a waterfall here at all, one of the rale ould
O'Sullivans was out all day hunting the red deer among the mountains. Well, sir, just as he
was getting quite weary, and was wishing for a drop of the cratur to put him in spirits--"

"Or spirits into him," said I.

"Oh, sure, 'tis all the same thing," returned Doolan with a grin, intended for a smile. "'Tis
all one surely, if a man can only have the drop when he wants it. Well, what should O'Sullivan
see but the most beautiful stag that ever was seen before or since in this world; for he was
as big as a colt, and had horns upon him like a weaver's beam, and a collar of real gold round
his neck. Away went the stag, and away went the dogs after him full cry, and O'Sullivan after
the dogs, for he was determined to have that beautiful fine stag; and though, as I said, he
was tired and weary enough, you'd think the sight of that stag put fresh life into him. A pretty
bit of a dance he led him, for he was an enchanted stag. Away he went entirely off by Macgillicuddy's
Reeks, round by the mountains of the Upper Lake, crossed the river by the Eagle's Nest, and
never stopped nor staid till he came to where the Punch Bowl is now. When O'Sullivan came to
the same place he was fairly ready to drop, and for certain that was no wonder; but what vexed
him more than all was to find his dogs at fault, and the never a bit of a stag to be seen high
nor low. Well, my dear sowl, he didn't know what to make of it, and seeing there was no use
in staying there, and it so late, he whistled his dogs to him, and was just going to go home.
The moon was just setting over to the top of the mountain shedding her light, broad and bright,
over the edge of the wood and down on the lake, which was like a sheet of silver, except where
the islands threw their black shadows over the water. O'Sullivan looked about him, and began
to grow quite dismal in himself, for sure it was a lonesome sight, and besides he had a sort
of dread upon him, though he couldn't tell the reason why. So not liking to stay there, as
I said before, he was just going to make the best of his way home, when, who should he see,
but Fuan Mac Cool (Fingal.) standing like a big joint (giant) on the top of a rock. 'Hallo,
O'Sullivan,' says he, 'where are you going so fast?' says he, 'come back with me,' says he,
'I want to have some talk with you.' You may be sure it was O'Sullivan was amazed and a little
bit frightened too, though he wouldn't pertind to it; and it would be no wonder if he was;
for if O'Sullivan had a big vice, (voice) Fuan Mac Cool had a bigger ten times, and it made
the mountains shake again like thunder, and all the eagles fly up to the moon. 'What do you
want with me?' says O'Sullivan, at the same time putting on as bould a face as he could. 'I
want to know what business you had hunting my stag?' says Fuan, 'by the vestment,' says he,
'if 'twas any one else but yourself, O'Sullivan, I'd play the red vengeance with him. But,
as you're one of the right sort, I'll pass it over this time; and, as my stag has led you a
pretty dance over the mountains, I'll give you a drop of good drink, O'Sullivan; only take
my advice, and never hunt my stag again.' Then Fuan Mac Cool stamped with his foot, and all
of a sudden, just in the hollow which his foot made in the mountain, there came up a little
lake, which tumbled down the rocks, and made the waterfall. When O'Sullivan went to take a
drink of it, what should it be but rale whiskey punch, and it staid the same way, running with
whiskey punch, morning, noon, and night, until the Sasenaghs[4] came into the country, when
all at once it was turned to water, though it goes still by the name of O'Sullivan's Punch Bowl.'"

    [4] Saxons--The English.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the island, the guide importunes Mr. Croker to visit the shelf of a rock overshadowed by
yew, and called the Bed of Honour, "because 'twas there a lord-lieutenant of Ireland would
go to sleep to cool himself after drinking plenty of whiskey punch." He is cautioned against
venturing too near the ledge of a rock, "the very spot the poor author gentleman fell from;
they called him Hell--Hell--no, 'twasn't Hell, either, but Hal; oh, then, what a head I have
upon me--oh, I have it now--Hallam's the name, your honour."

"What the author of the Middle Ages?"

"True for you, sir, he was a middle aged man;" "and then there was another great writing gentleman,
one Sir Walter Scott," &c.

Mr. Croker chances to be confined to his hotel by the rainy weather, and this circumstance
introduces the following legend, narrated by one of his old friends:--

"Well, well," said Lynch, smiling, "I'll give you the legend of Saint Swithin exactly as it
was told to me about a month since--I have occasionally employed an industrious, poor man,
named Tom Doody, to work in my garden. 'Well, Tom,' said I to him, 'this is Swithin's day,
and not a drop of rain--you see the old saying of "forty days' rain" goes for nothing.'--'O,
but the day isn't over yet,' said Tom, 'so you'd better not halloo, sir, till you're out of
the wood. I'll go bail we'll have rain some time of the day, and then you may be sure of it
for the forty days.'--'If that's the way, Tom,' said I, 'this same Swithin must have been the
thirstiest saint in the calendar; and it's quite certain he must be a real Irish saint, since
he's so fond of the drop.'--'You may laugh if you please,' said Tom, resting on his spade,
'you may laugh if you please, but it's a bad thing any how to spake that way of the saints;
and, sure, Saint Swithin was a blessed priest, and the rain was a miracle sent on his account;
but may be you never heard how it came to pass.'--'No, Tom, I did not,' said I--'Well, then,
I'll tell you,' said he, 'how it was. Saint Swithin was a priest, and a very holy man, so holy
that he went by no other name but that of the blessed priest. He wasn't like the priests now-a-days,
who ride about on fine horses, with spectacles stuck upon their noses, and horsewhips in their
hands, and polished boots on their legs, that fit them as nate as a Limerick glove (God forgive
me for spaking ill of the clargy, but some of them have no more conscience than a pig in a
pratie garden;') I give you Doody's own words," said Mr. Lynch.

"That's exactly what I wish."

