For some time after the children had gone the Interpreter sat very still. His dark eyes were
fixed upon the Mill with its tall, grim stacks and the columns of smoke that twisted upward
to form that overshadowing cloud. The voices of the children, as they started down the stairway
to the dusty road and to their wretched home in the Flats, came to him muffled and indistinct
from under the cliff.

Perhaps the man in the wheel chair was thinking of the days when Maggie's princess lady was
a little girl and lived in the old house next door to Mary and Charlie Martin. Perhaps his
mind still dwelt on the fairy story and the princess who found her jewel of happiness. It may
have been that he was listening to the droning, moaning voice of the Mill, as one listens to
the distant roar of the surf on a dangerous coast.

With a weary movement he took the unfinished basket from the table and began to work. But it
was not his basket making that caused the weariness of the Interpreter--it was not his work
that put the light of sorrow in his dark eyes.

      *       *       *       *       *

As Bobby and Maggie went leisurely down the zigzag steps, proud of the tremendous success of
their adventure, the boy paused several times to execute an inspirational "stunt" that would
in some degree express his triumphant emotions.

"Gee!" he exulted. "Wait 'til I see Skinny and Chuck an' the rest of the gang! Gee, won't I
tell 'em! Just yer wait. I'll knock 'em dead. Gee!"

On the bottom step they deliberately seated themselves as if they had suddenly found the duty
of leaving the charmed vicinity of that hut on the cliff above impossible.

Suddenly, from around the curve in the road followed by a whirling cloud of dust, came an automobile.
It was a big car, very imposing with its shiny black body, its gleaming metal, and its liveried
chauffeur.

The children gazed in open-mouthed wonder. The car drew nearer, and they saw, behind the dignified
personality at the wheel, a lady who might well have been the beautiful princess of the Interpreter's
fairy tale.

Little Maggie caught her brother's arm. "Bobby! It's--it's her--it's the princess lady herself."

"Gee!" gasped the boy. "She's a slowin' down--what d'yer--"

The automobile stopped not thirty feet from where the children sat on the lower step of the
old stairway. Springing to the ground, the chauffeur, with the dignity of a prime minister,
opened the door.

But the princess lady sat motionless in her car. With an expression of questioning disapproval
she looked at the Interpreter's friends on that lower step of the Interpreter's stairway.

CHAPTER II

LITTLE MAGGIE'S PRINCESS LADY

By nine out of ten of the Millsburgh people, the Interpreter would be described as a strange
character. But the judge once said to the cigar-store philosopher, when that worthy had so
spoken of the old basket maker, "Sir, the Interpreter is more than a character; he is a conviction,
a conscience, an institution."

It was about the time when the patents on the new process were issued that the Interpreter--or
Wallace Gordon, as he was then known--appeared from no one knows where, and went to work in
the Mill. Because of the stranger's distinguished appearance, his evident culture, and his
slightly foreign air, there were many who sought curiously to learn his history. But Wallace
Gordon's history remained as it, indeed, remains still, an unopened book. Within a few months
his ability to speak several of the various languages spoken by the immigrants who were drawn
to the manufacturing city caused his fellow workers to call him the Interpreter.

Working at the same bench in the Mill with Adam Ward and Peter Martin, the Interpreter naturally
saw much of the two families that, in those days, lived such close neighbors. Sober, hard working,
modest in his needs, he acquired, during his first year in the Mill, that little plot of ground
on the edge of the cliff, and built the tiny hut with its zigzag stairway. But often on a Sunday
or a holiday, or for an hour of the long evenings after work, this man who was so alone in
the world would seek companionship in the homes of his two workmen friends. The four children,
who were so much together that their mothers used to say laughingly they could scarcely tell
which were Wards and which were Martins, claimed the Interpreter as their own. With his never-failing
fund of stories, his ultimate acquaintance with the fairies, his ready understanding of their
childish interests, and his joyous comradeship in their sports, he won his own peculiar place
in their hearts.

It was during the second year of his residence in Millsburgh that he adopted the deaf and dumb
orphan boy, Billy Rand.

That such a workman should become a leader among his fellow workers was inevitable. More and
more his advice and counsel were sought by those who toiled under the black cloud that rolled
up in ever-increasing volumes from the roaring furnaces.

The accident which so nearly cost him his life occurred soon after the new process had taken
Adam from his bench to a desk in the office of the Mill. Helen and John were away at school.
At the hospital they asked him about his people. He smiled grimly and shook his head. When
the surgeons were finally through with him, and it was known that he would live but could never
stand on his feet again, he was still silent as to his family and his life before he came to
the Mill. So they carried him around by the road on the hillside to his little hut on the top
of the cliff where, with Billy Rand to help him, he made baskets and lived with his books,
which he purchased as he could from time to time during the more profitable periods of his
industry.

As the years passed and the Mill, under Adam Ward's hand, grew in importance, Millsburgh experienced
the usual trials of such industrial centers. Periodic labor wars alternated with times of industrial
peace. Months of prosperity were followed by months of "hard times," and want was in turn succeeded
by plenty. When the community was at work the more intelligent and thrifty among those who
toiled with their hands and the more conservative of those who labored in business were able
to put by in store enough to tide them over the next period of idleness and consequent business
depression.

From his hut on the cliff the Interpreter watched it all with never-failing interest and sympathy.
Indeed, although he never left his work of basket making, the Interpreter was a part of it
all. For more and more the workers from the Mill, the shops and the factories, and the workers
from the offices and stores came to counsel with this white-haired man in the wheel chair.

The school years of John and Helen, the new home on the hill, and all the changes brought by
Adam Ward's material prosperity separated the two families that had once been so intimate.
But, in spite of the wall that the Mill owner had built between himself and his old workmen
comrades, the children of Adam Ward and the children of Peter Martin still held the Interpreter
in their hearts. To the man condemned to his wheel chair and his basket making, little Maggie's
princess lady was still the Helen of the old house.

Sam Whaley's children sitting on the lower step of the zigzag stairway that afternoon had no
thought for the Interpreter's Helen of the old house. Bobby's rapt attention was held by that
imposing figure in uniform. Work in the Mill when he became a man! Not much! Not as long as
there were automobiles like that to drive and clothes like those to wear while driving them!
Little Maggie's pathetically serious eyes saw only the beautiful princess of the Interpreter's
story--the princess who lived in a wonderful palace and who because her heart was so kind was
told by the fairy how to find the jewel of happiness. Only this princess lady did not look
as though she had found her jewel of happiness yet. But she would find it--the fairies would
be sure to help her because her heart was kind. How could any princess lady--so beautiful,
with such lovely clothes, and such a grand automobile, and such a wonderful servant--how could
any princess lady like that help having a kind heart!

"Tom, send those dirty, impossible children away!"

The man touched his cap and turned to obey.

Poor little Maggie could not believe. It was not what the lady said; it was the tone of her
voice, the expression of her face, that hurt so. The princess lady must be very unhappy, indeed,
to look and speak like that. And the tiny wisp of humanity, with her thin, stooping shoulders
and her tired little face--dirty, half clothed and poorly fed--felt very sorry because the
beautiful lady in the automobile was not happy.

But Bobby's emotions were of quite a different sort. Sam Whaley would have been proud of his
son had he seen the boy at that moment. Springing to his feet, the lad snarled with all the
menacing hate he could muster, "Drive us away, will yer! I'd just like to see yer try it on.
These here are the Interpreter's steps. If the Interpreter lets us come to see him, an' gives
us cookies, an' tells us stories, I guess we've got a right to set on his steps if we want to."

"Go on wid ye--git out o' here," said the man in livery. But Bobby's sharp eyes saw what the
lady in the automobile could not see--a faint smile accompanied the chauffeur's attempt to
obey his orders.

"Go on yerself," retorted the urchin, defiantly, "I'll go when I git good an' ready. Ain't
no darned rich folks what thinks they's so grand--with all their autermobiles, an' swell drivers,
'n' things--can tell me what to do. I know her--she's old Adam Ward's daughter, she is. An'
she lives by grindin' the life out of us poor workin' folks, that's what she does; 'cause my
dad and Jake Vodell they say so. Yer touch me an' yer'll see what'll happen to yer, when I
tell Jake Vodell."

Unseen by his mistress, the smile on the servant's face grew more pronounced; and the small
defender of the rights of the poor saw one of the man's blue Irish eyes close slowly in a deliberate
wink of good fellowship. In a voice too low to be heard distinctly in the automobile behind
him, he said, "Yer all right, kid, but fer the love o' God beat it before I have to lay hands
on ye." Then, louder, he added gruffly, "Get along wid ye or do ye want me to help ye?"

Bobby retreated in good order to a position of safety a little way down the road where his
sister was waiting for him.

With decorous gravity the imposing chauffeur went back to his place at the door of the automobile.

"Gee!" exclaimed Bobby. "What do yer know about that! Old Adam Ward's swell daughter a-goin'
up to see the Interpreter. Gee!"

On the lower step of the zigzag stairway, with her hand on the railing, the young woman paused
suddenly and turned about. To the watching children she must have looked very much indeed like
the beautiful princess of the Interpreter's fairy tale.

"Tom--" She hesitated and looked doubtfully toward the children.

"Yes, Miss."

"What was it that boy said about his rights?"

"He said, Miss, as how they had just been to visit the Interpreter an' the old man give 'em
cookies, and so they thought they was privileged to sit on his steps."

A puzzled frown marred the really unusual loveliness of her face. "But that was not all he
said, Tom."

"No, Miss."

She looked upward to the top of the cliff where one corner of the Interpreter's hut was just
visible above the edge of the rock. And then, as the quick light of a smile drove away the
trouble shadows, she said to the servant, "Tom, you will take those children for a ride in
the car. Take them wherever they wish to go, and return here for me. I shall be ready in about
an hour."

The man gasped. "But, Miss, beggin' yer pardon,--the car--think av the upholsterin'--an' the
dirt av thim little divils--beggin' yer pardon, but 'tis ruined the car will be--an' yer gowns!
Please, Miss, I'll give them a dollar an' 'twill do just as well--think av the car!"

"Never mind the car, Tom, do as I say, please."

In spite of his training, a pleased smile stole over the Irish face of the chauffeur; and there
was a note of ungrudging loyalty and honest affection in his voice as he said, touching his
cap, "Yes, Miss, I will have the car here in an hour--thank ye, Miss."

A moment later the young woman saw her car stop beside the wondering children. With all his
high-salaried dignity the chauffeur left the wheel and opened the door as if for royalty itself.

The children stood as if petrified with wonder, although the boy was still a trifle belligerent
and suspicious.

In his best manner the chauffeur announced, "Miss Ward's compliments, Sir and Miss, an' she
has ordered me to place her automobile at yer disposal if ye would be so minded as to go for
a bit of a pleasure ride."

"Oh!" gulped little Maggie.

"Aw, what are yer givin' us!" said Bobby.

The man's voice changed, but his manner was unaltered. "'Tis the truth I'm a-tellin' ye, kids,
wid the lady herself back there a-watchin' to see that I carry out her orders. So hop in, quick,
and don't keep her a-waitin'."

"Gee!" exclaimed the boy.

Maggie looked at her brother doubtfully. "Dast we, Bobby? Dast we?"

"Dast we!--Huh! Who's afraid? I'll say we dast."

Another second and they were in the car. The chauffeur gravely touched his cap. "An' where
will I be drivin' ye, Sir?"

"Huh?"

"Where is it ye would like for to go?"

The two children looked at each other questioningly. Then a grin of wild delight spread itself
over the countenance of the boy and he fairly exploded with triumphant glee, "Gee! Mag, now's
our chance." To the man he said, eagerly, "Just you take us all 'round the Flats, mister, so's
folks can see. An'--an', mind yer, toot that old horn good an' loud, so as everybody'll know
we're a-comin'." As the automobile moved away he beamed with proud satisfaction. "Some swells
we are--heh? Skinny an' Chuck an' the gang'll be plumb crazy when they see us. Some class,
I'll tell the world."

"Well, why not?" demanded the cigar-stand philosopher, when Tom described that triumphant drive
of Sam Whaley's children through the Flats. "Them kids was only doin' what we're all a-tryin'
to do in one way or another."

The lawyer, who had stopped for a light, laughed. "I heard the Interpreter say once that 'to
live on some sort of an elevation was to most people one of the prime necessities of life.'"

"Sure," agreed the philosopher, reaching for another box for the real-estate agent, "I'll bet
old Adam Ward himself is just as human as the rest of us if you could only catch him at it."

For some time after her car, with Bobby and Maggie, had disappeared in its cloud of dust, among
the wretched buildings of the Flats, Helen stood there, on the lower step of the zigzag stairway,
looking after them. She was thinking, or perhaps she was wondering a little at herself. She
might even have been living again for the moment those old-house days when, with her brother
and Mary and Charlie Martin, she had played there on these same steps.

Those old-house days had been joyous and carefree. Her school years, too, had been filled with
delightful and satisfying activities. After her graduation she had been content with the gayeties
and triumphs of the life to which she had been arbitrarily removed by her father and the new
process, and for which she had been educated. She had felt the need of nothing more. Then came
the war, and, in her brother's enlistment and in her work with the various departments of the
women forces at home, she had felt herself a part of the great world movement. But now when
the victorious soldiers--brothers and sweethearts and husbands and friends--had returned, and
the days of excited rejoicing were past, life had suddenly presented to her a different front.
It would have been hard to find in all Millsburgh, not excepting the most wretched home in
the Flats, a more unhappy and discontented person than this young woman who was so unanimously
held to have everything in the world that any one could possibly desire.

Slowly she turned to climb the zigzag stairway to the Interpreter's hut.

CHAPTER III

THE INTERPRETER

The young woman announced her presence at the open door of the hut by calling, "Are you there?"

The deep voice of the Interpreter answered, "Helen! Here I am, child--on the porch. Come!"
As she passed swiftly through the house and appeared in the porch doorway, he added, "This
is a happy surprise, indeed. I thought you were not expected home for another month. It seems
ages since you went away."

She tried bravely to smile in response to the gladness in her old friend's greeting. "I had
planned to stay another month," she said, "but I--" She paused as if for some reason she found
it hard to explain why she had returned to Millsburgh so long before the end of the summer
season. Then she continued slowly, as if remembering that she must guard her words, "Brother
wrote me that they were expecting serious labor troubles, and with father as he is--" Her voice
broke and she finished lamely, "Mother is so worried and unhappy. I--I felt that I really ought
not to be away."

She turned quickly and went to stand at the porch railing, where she watched the cloud of dust
that marked the progress of Bobby and Maggie through the Flats.

"I can't understand father's condition at all," she said, presently, without looking at the
Interpreter. "He is so--so--" Again she paused as if she could not find courage to speak the
thought that so disturbed her mind.

From his wheel chair the Interpreter silently watched the young woman who was so envied by
the people. And because the white-haired old basket maker knew many things that were hidden
from the multitude, his eyes were as the eyes of the Master when He looked upon the rich young
ruler whom He loved.

Then, as if returning to a thought that had been interrupted by the unwelcome intrusion of
a forbidden subject, Helen said, "I can't understand how you tolerate such dirty, rude and
vicious little animals as those two children."

The Interpreter smiled understandingly at the back of her very becoming and very correctly
fashioned hat. "You met my little friends, did you?"

"I did," she answered, with decided emphasis, "at the foot of your stairs, and I was forced
to listen to the young ruffian's very frank opinion of me and of all that he is taught to believe
I represent. I wonder you did not hear. But I suppose you can guess what he would say."

"Yes," said the man in the wheel chair, gently, "I can guess Bobby's opinion of you, quite
as accurately as Bobby guesses your opinion of him."

At that she turned on him with a short laugh that was rather more bitter than mirthful. "Well,
the little villain is guessing another guess just now. I sent Tom to take them for a ride in
the car."

"And why did you do that?"

She waited a little before she answered. "I don't know exactly. Perhaps it was your Helen of
the old house that did it. She may have been a little ashamed of me and wanted to make it up
to them. I am afraid I really wasn't very kind at first."

"I see," said the Interpreter, gravely.

"There might possibly have been the shade of another reason," she continued, after a moment,
and there was a hint of bitterness in her voice now.

"Yes?"

"Yes, it is conceivable, perhaps, that, in spite of the prevailing opinions of such people,
even I might have felt a wee bit sorry for the poor kiddies--especially for the girl. She is
such a tiny, tired-looking mite."

The old basket maker was smiling now, as he said, "I have known for a long time that there
were two Helens. Little Maggie, it seems, has found still another."

"How interesting!"

"Yes, Maggie has discovered, somehow, that you are really a beautiful princess, living on most
intimate terms with the fairies. She will think so more than ever now."

The young woman laughed at this. "And the boy--what do you suppose he will think after his
ride with Tom in the limousine?"

The Interpreter shook his head doubtfully. "Bobby will probably reserve his judgment for a
while, on the possible chance of another ride in your car."

"Tell me about them," said Helen.

"Are you really interested?"

She flushed a little as she answered, "I am at least curious."

"Why?"

"Perhaps because of your interest in them," she retorted. "Who are they?"

The Interpreter did not answer for a moment; then, with his dark eyes fixed on the heavy cloud
of smoke that hung above the Mill and overshadowed the Flats, he said, slowly, "They are Sam
Whaley's children. Their father works--when he works--in your father's Mill. I knew both Sam
and his wife before they were married. She was a bright girl, with fine instincts for the best
things of life and a capacity for great happiness. Sam was a good worker in those days, and
their marriage promised well. Then he became interested in the wrong sort of what is called
socialism, and began to associate with a certain element that does not value homes and children
very highly. The man is honest, and fairly capable, up to a certain point; but there never
was much capacity there for clear thinking. He is one of those who always follow the leader
who yells the loudest and he mistakes vituperation for argument. He is strong on loyalty to
class, but is not so particular as he might be when it comes to choosing his class. And so,
for several years now, in every little difference between the workmen and the management, Sam
has been too ready to quit his job and let his wife and children go hungry for the good of
the cause, while he vociferates loudly against the cruelty of all who refuse to offer their
families as sacrifice on the altar of his particular and impracticable ideas."

"And his wife--the mother of his children--the girl with fine instincts for the best things
and a capacity for great happiness--what of her?" demanded Helen.

The Interpreter pointed toward the Flats. "She lives down there," he said, sadly. "You have
seen her children."

The young woman turned again to the porch railing and looked down on the wretched dwellings
of the Flats below.

"It is strange," she said, presently, as if speaking to herself, "but that poor woman makes
me think of mother. Mother is like that, isn't she? I mean," she added, quickly, "in her instincts
and in her capacity for happiness."

"Yes," agreed the Interpreter, "your mother is like that."

She faced him once more, to say thoughtfully, but with decisive warmth, "It is a shame the
way such children--I mean the children of such people as this man Whaley--are being educated
in lawlessness. Those youngsters are nothing less than juvenile anarchists. They will grow
up a menace to our government, to society, to our homes, and to everything that is decent and
right. They are taught to hate work. And they fairly revel in their hatred of every one and
every thing that is not of their own miserable class."

There was a note of gentle authority in the Interpreter's deep voice, and in his dark eyes
there was a look of patient sorrow, as he replied, "Yes, Helen, all that you say of our Bobbies
and Maggies is true. But have you ever considered whether it might not be equally true of the
children of wealth?"

"Is the possession of what we call wealth a crime?" the young woman asked, bitterly. "Is poverty
always such a virtue?"

The Interpreter answered, "I mean, child, that wealth which comes unearned from the industries
of life--that wealth for which no service is rendered--for which no equivalent in human strength,
mental or physical, is returned. Are not the children of such conditions being educated in
lawlessness when the influence of their money so often permits them to break our laws with
impunity? Are they not a menace to our government when they coerce and bribe our public servants
to enact laws and enforce measures that are for the advantage of a few favored ones and against
the welfare of our people as a whole? Are they not a menace to society when they would limit
the meaning of the very word to their own select circles and cliques? Are they not a menace
to our homes by the standards of morals that too often govern their daily living? For that
hatred of class taught the Bobbies and Maggies of the Flats, Helen, these other children are
taught an intolerance and contempt for everything that is not of their class--an intolerance
and contempt that breed class hatred as surely as blow flies breed maggots."

For some time the silence was broken only by the dull, droning voice of the Mill. They listened
as they would have listened to the first low moaning of the wind that might rise later into
a destructive storm.

The Interpreter spoke again. "Helen, this nation cannot tolerate one standard of citizenship
for one class and a totally different standard for another. Whatever is right for the children
of the hill, yonder, is right for the children of the Flats, down there."

Helen asked, abruptly, "Is there any truth in all this talk about coming trouble with the labor
unions?"

The man in the wheel chair did not answer immediately. Then he replied, gravely, with another
question, "And who is it that says there is going to be trouble again, Helen?"

"John says everybody is expecting it. And Mr. McIver is so sure that he is already preparing
for it at his factory. He says it will be the worst industrial war that Millsburgh has ever
experienced--that it must be a fight to the finish this time--that nothing but starvation will
bring the working classes to their senses."

"Yes," agreed the Interpreter, thoughtfully, "McIver would say just that. And many of our labor
agitators would declare, in exactly the same spirit, that nothing but the final and absolute
downfall of the employer class can ever end the struggle. I wonder what little Bobby and Maggie
Whaley and their mother would say if they could have their way about it, Helen?"

Helen Ward's face flushed as she said in a low, deliberate voice, "Father agrees with Mr. McIver--you
know how bitter he is against the unions?"

"Yes, I know."

"But John says that Mr. McIver, with his talk of force and of starving helpless women and children,
is as bad as this man Jake Vodell who has come to Millsburgh to organize a strike. It is really
brother's attitude toward the workmen and their unions and his disagreement with Mr. McIver's
views that make father as--as he is."

The Interpreter's voice was gentle as he asked, "Your father is not worse, is he, Helen? I
have heard nothing."

"Oh, no," she returned, quickly. "That is--"

She hesitated, then continued, with careful exactness, "For a time he even seemed much better.
When I went away he was really almost like his old self. But this labor situation and John's
not seeing things exactly as he does worries him. The doctors all agree, you know, that father
must give up everything in the nature of business and have absolute mental rest; but he insists
that in the face of this expected trouble with the workmen he dares not trust the management
of the Mill wholly to John, because of what he calls brother's wild and impracticable ideas.
Everybody knows how father has given his life to building up the Mill. And now, he--he--It
is terrible the way he is about things. Poor mother is almost beside herself." The young woman's
eyes filled and her lips trembled.

The man in the wheel chair turned to the unfinished basket on the table beside him and handled
his work aimlessly, as if in sorrow that he had no word of comfort for her.

When Adam Ward's daughter spoke again there was a curious note of defiance in her voice, but
her eyes, when the Interpreter turned to look at her, were fixed upon her old friend with an
expression of painful anxiety and fear. "Of course his condition is all due to his years of
hard work and to the mental and nervous strain of his business. It--it couldn't be anything
else, could it?"

The Interpreter, who seemed to be watching the intricate and constantly changing forms that
the columns of smoke from the tall stacks were shaping, apparently did not hear.

"Don't--don't you think it is all because of his worry over the Mill?"

"Yes, Helen," the Interpreter answered, at last, "I am sure your father's trouble all comes
from the Mill."

For a while she did not speak, but sat looking wistfully toward the clump of trees that shaded
her birthplace and the white cottage where Peter Martin lived with Charlie and Mary.

Then she said, musingly, "How happy we all were in the old house, when father worked in the
Mill with you and Uncle Pete, and you used to come for Sunday dinner with us. Do you know,
sometimes"--she hesitated as if making a confession of which she was a little ashamed--"sometimes--that
is, since brother came home from France, I--I almost hate it. I think I feel just as mother
does, only neither of us dares admit it--scarcely even to ourselves."

"You almost hate what, Helen?"

"Oh, everything--the way we live, the people we know, the stupid things I am expected to do.
It all seems so useless--so futile--so--so--such a waste of time."

The Interpreter was studying her with kindly interest.

"I never felt this way before brother went away. And during the war everybody was so much excited
and interested, helping in every way he or she could. But now--now that it is over and John
is safely home again, I can't seem to get back into the old ways at all. Life seems to have
flattened out into a dull, monotonous round of nothing that really matters."

The Interpreter spoke, thoughtfully, "Many people, I find, feel that way these days, Helen."

"As for brother," she continued, "he is so changed that I simply can't understand him at all.
He is like a different man--just grinds away in that dirty old Mill day after day, as if he
were nothing more than a common laborer who had to work or starve. In fact," she finished with
an air of triumph, "that is exactly what he says he is--simply a laborer like--like Charlie
Martin and the rest of them."

The Interpreter smiled.

"It was all very well for John and Charlie Martin to be buddies, as they call it, during the
war," she went on. "It was different over there in France. But now that it is all over and
they are home again, and Captain Martin has gone back to his old work in the Mill where John
has practically become the manager, there is no sense in brother's keeping up the intimacy.
Really I don't wonder that father is worried almost to death over it all. I suppose the next
thing John will be chumming with this Jake Vodell himself."

"I don't suppose you see much of your old friends the Martins these days, do you, Helen?" said
the old basket maker, reflectively.

She retorted quickly with an air, "Certainly not."

"But I remember, in the old-house days, before you went away to school, you and Charlie Martin
were--"

She interrupted him with "I was a silly child. I suppose every girl at about that age has to
have her foolish little romance."

And the Interpreter saw that her cheeks were crimson.

"A young girl's first love is not in the least silly or foolish, my dear," he said.

She made an effort to speak lightly. "Well, fortunately, mine did not last long."

"I know," he returned, "but I thought perhaps because of the friendship between John and the
Captain--"

"I could scarcely see much of one of the common workmen in my father's mill, could I?" she
asked, warmly. "I must admit, though," she added, with an odd note in her voice, "that I admire
his good sense in never accepting John's invitations to the house."

And then, suddenly, to the consternation of her companion, her eyes filled with tears.

The Interpreter looked away toward the beautiful country beyond the squalid Plats, the busy
city, the smoke-clouded Mill.

There was a sound of some one knocking at the front door of the hut. Through the living room
Helen saw her chauffeur.

"Yes, Tom," she called, "I am coming."

To the Interpreter she said, hurriedly, "I have really stayed longer than I should. I promised
mother that I would be home early. She is so worried about father, I do not like to leave her,
but I felt that I must see you. I--I haven't said at all the things I--wanted to say. Father--"
She looked at the man in the wheel chair appealingly, as she hesitated again with the manner
of one who feels compelled to speak, yet fears to betray a secret. "You feel sure, don't you,
that father's condition is nothing more than the natural result of his nervous breakdown and
his worry over business?"

The Interpreter thought how like the look in her eyes was to the look in the eyes of timid
little Maggie. And again he waited, before answering, "Yes, Helen, I am sure that your father's
trouble is all caused by the Mill. Is there anything that I can do, child?"

"There is nothing that any one can do, I fear," she returned, with a little gesture of hopelessness.
Then, avoiding the grave, kindly eyes of the old basket maker, she forced herself to say, in
a tone that was little more than a whisper, "I sometimes think--at tines I am almost compelled
to believe that there is something more--something that we--that no one knows about." With
sudden desperate earnestness she went on with nervous haste as if she feared her momentary
courage would fail. "I can't explain--but it is as if he were hiding something and dreaded
every moment that it would be discovered. He is so--so afraid. Can it be possible that there
is something that we do not know--some hidden thing?" And then, before the Interpreter could
speak, she exclaimed, with a forced laugh of embarrassment, "How silly of me to talk like this--you
will think that I am going insane."

When he was alone, the Interpreter turned again to his basket making. "Yes, Billy," he said
aloud as his deaf and dumb companion appeared in the doorway a few minutes later, "yes, Billy,
she will find her jewel of happiness. But it will not be easy, Billy--it will not be easy."

To which, of course, Billy made no reply. And that--the Interpreter always maintained--was
one of the traits that made his companion such a delightful conversationalist. He invariably
found your pet arguments and theories unanswerable, and accepted your every assertion without
question.

Helen Ward could not feel that her father's condition--much as it alarmed and distressed her--was,
in itself, the reason of her own unrest and discontent. She felt, rather, in a vague, instinctive
way, that the source of her parent's trouble was somehow identical with the cause of her own
unhappiness. But what was it that caused her father's affliction and her own dissatisfied and
restless mental state? The young woman questioned herself in vain.

