Let it be understood at the outset of this chapter, therefore, that really to eliminate the
basic defects of our industrial system we must resort to a series of comprehensive reforms
rather than to a single scheme or theory. These reforms must be so wisely planned and so carefully
executed as to attack the evils of capitalism from a number of angles simultaneously. The attack
must be partly by legislative, and partly by non-legislative methods.

The series of reforms referred to above must have three aims: first, to give every individual
exactly what he earns; second, to make it possible for every individual to earn enough to support
himself and his family at least decently; and third, to teach every individual to use wisely
and economically the income which he receives.

A program embodying these three aims has the disadvantage of seeming commonplace and slow of
fulfillment to those who prefer novel and sensational schemes, but it has the advantage of
being both workable and safe.

168. THE NATURE OF JUSTICE.--Among the advocates of socialism the word "justice" is much used,
but apparently little understood. Justice in industry implies that every individual shall receive
precisely what he earns, no more, no less. If a monopolist secures unearned profits, there
is injustice. If a laborer adds to the value of a product to the extent of five dollars, there
is injustice if he receives less than five dollars in wages. Similarly, there is injustice
if the laborer earns only four dollars, but receives five dollars. Wherever there is an unfair
distribution of wealth, there is a double injustice: some individual gets a share of wealth
which he did not earn and to which, therefore, he is not entitled; while the individual who
did earn that wealth is deprived of it.

169. THE IMPORTANCE OF THIS.--All right-thinking reformers will agree with the socialist that
much or all of the unearned wealth of the moneyed classes ought to be taken for the benefit
of the community. But he who accepts the democratic program of industrial reform will not sanction
the socialist's proposal to eliminate poverty primarily by decreeing higher wages.

In the first place, this proposal of the socialist is unjust. A man who earns three dollars
a day may not be able to live on that amount, and it may be desirable for some agency to give
him more than three dollars a day. But that would be charity, not justice. It would be, as
we have just seen, a double injustice.

In the second place, such a practice would lead inevitably to national bankruptcy. Under the
competitive system, wages tend to be determined by productivity. To attempt to eradicate poverty
primarily by the raising of wages is futile, for employers cannot long pay out in wages more
than the laborer adds to the product. Some employers might do so for a long time, and all employers
might do so for a short time, but if the practice were nation-wide and long-continued, it would
result in economic ruin. To put a premium upon propagation by guaranteeing every man a job,
and to pay him, not according to productivity, but according to need, would be equivalent to
building up a gigantic charitable institution. Charity is a necessary and laudable function,
but the proper care of the dependent classes is possible only when the majority of the people
are not only self-supporting, but actually produce a surplus out of which the unfortunate can
be cared for. If applicants for charity too largely outnumber those producing a surplus, national
bankruptcy results.

In the third place, an increase in wages might not benefit even those receiving higher wages
unless they were able and willing to spend their income wisely and economically.

170. THE REDISTRIBUTION OF UNEARNED WEALTH.--The first step in our program is to apply the
principle of justice to the problem of unearned wealth. The student should be careful at this
point to distinguish between wealth which has been earned, however great, and wealth which
has been acquired by unjust methods. American democracy will tolerate no interference with
wealth which has been earned; on the other hand, it demands that unearned riches be redistributed
in the form of services performed by the government for the people as a whole.

There are three chief methods of redistributing unearned wealth. The first is by means of increased
taxes on land. As was pointed out in the chapter on single tax, that income from land which
is due, not to the efforts of the owner, but either to natural fertility or to the growth of
the community, may be considered as unearned. While the single tax is too drastic a reform,
it is unquestioned that we need heavier taxes upon the unearned increment arising from land.

A second method of redistributing unearned wealth is through the application of inheritance
taxes. Reserving the whole problem of taxation for later discussion, [Footnote: See Chapter
XXXII.] it may be said here that in many cases large sums are willed to individuals who have
done little or nothing to deserve them. In so far as this is true, and in so far as such a
tax does not discourage the activities of fortune builders, the inheritance tax is a desirable
means of redistributing unearned wealth.

The last method of redistributing unearned wealth is by a tax on those elements in profits
which are due to the abuse of monopoly conditions. [Footnote: Monopoly will be treated more
fully in Chapters XXVII and XXVIII.] Complete monopoly rarely exists, but in many businesses
there is an element of monopoly which allows the capitalist or entrepreneur to secure a measure
of unearned wealth. In the interest of justice, much or all of this ought to be taken for the
use of the community.

171. SOMETHING MORE THAN JUSTICE IS NECESSARY.--It is an error to suppose that justice would
necessarily eliminate either low wages or poverty. As we have seen, justice would require the
redistribution of a large amount of unearned wealth. But much more important is the question
of large numbers of laborers whose wages are undesirably low. If the rule of justice were applied
to this latter class, that is, if they were given just what they earned, many would continue
to be poor. Indeed, if justice were strictly administered, it is even possible that among a
few groups poverty would increase, since some individuals are incapable of really earning the
wages they now receive.

Something more than justice, therefore, is necessary. We must not only see that a man gets
as much as he produces, no more, no less, but we must make it possible for every individual
actually to produce or earn enough to support himself decently or comfortably. This, in essence,
is the distinction between the socialist and the liberalist, i.e. he who accepts the democratic
program of industrial reform: the socialist would practice injustice and invite economic ruin
in a vain effort to eliminate poverty; the liberalist seeks the abolition of poverty without
violating either justice or economic law.

172. WHY WAGES ARE LOW.--A little thought will show that directly or indirectly poverty is
sometimes the result of low wages. It follows, thus, that the source of some poverty would
be dried up if an increase in wages could be secured in an economical manner. To come to the
heart of the problem, wages are low because productivity is low. That is to say, employers
operating under conditions of free competition will pay laborers in proportion as the latter
give promise of adding to the value of the product. When men are scarce, relatively to the
supply of land and capital, the employer will be justified in offering high wages, because
under those circumstances the productivity of each of his prospective employees will be high.
He will actually offer high wages, because if he does not, the laborers will tend to hire out
to his competitors. But if laborers are plentiful, relatively to the supply of the other factors
of production, the employer will be forced to offer lower wages, because under the circumstances
each of the prospective employees shows promise of being able to add relatively little to the
value of the product. In such a case, the employer will actually offer low wages because he
need not fear that his competitors will hire all of the laborers applying for jobs.

Thus when laborers are plentiful, relatively to the demand, the automatic functioning of the
law of supply and demand will result in low wages. We need not waste time debating whether
or not there ought to be such a thing as the law of supply and demand; a far more profitable
exercise is to recognize that such a law exists, and to consider how our program of industrial
reform may be adapted to it.

173. AN ECONOMICAL REMEDY FOR LOW WAGES.--Low wages are generally the result of low productivity,
and low productivity is in turn the result of an oversupply of laborers relatively to the demand.
Granting the truth of these premises, an economical remedy for low wages involves two steps:
first, the demand for labor [Footnote: By "labor" is here meant those types of labor which
are poorly paid, because oversupplied. Unskilled day labor is an example.] must be increased;
and second, the supply of labor must be decreased. Any measure which will increase the demand
for labor, relatively to the demand for the other factors of production, will increase the
productivity of labor, and will justify the payment of higher wages. Competition between prospective
employers will then actually force the payment of higher wages. Similarly, any measure which
will decrease the supply of labor will strengthen the bargaining position of the laborer, and,
other things remaining equal, will automatically increase wages.

174. INCREASING THE DEMAND FOR LABOR.--If we bear in mind that modern industry requires a combination
of the various factors of production, it will be seen that the utilization of laborers depends
upon the extent to which land, capital, and entrepreneur ability are present to combine with
those laborers. Where there is a large supply of these factors, many laborers can be set to
work. Thus one way of increasing the demand for labor is to increase the supply of land, capital,
and entrepreneur ability.

The available supply of land can be increased by several methods. Irrigation, reclamation,
and dry farming increase the available supply of farm land. The fertility of land may be retained
and increased by manuring, rotation of crops, and careful husbandry. Improved agricultural
machinery will also enable land to be used in larger quantities and in more productive ways.
And while we do not think of man as actually creating land, the draining of swamps and the
filling in of low places increases the available amount of both farm and urban land. By whatever
means the amount of available land is increased, the effect is to open more avenues to the
employment of laborers.

The supply of capital may be increased chiefly by the practice of thrift among all classes
of the population. Capital arises most rapidly when individuals produce as much as possible,
and spend as little as possible for consumers' goods. Any measure which will discourage the
well-to-do from wasteful or luxurious ways of living, and at the same time encourage the poor
to save systematically, even though they save only a trifle, will add to the supply of available
capital. Every increase in the supply of capital will enable more and more laborers to be set
to work.

Entrepreneur ability may be increased by a variety of methods. The training of men for business
callings increases the supply of entrepreneurs. Taxes on inheritances, excess profits, and
the unearned increment of land will tend to force into productive work many capable men who
now either idle away their lives, or retire from business prematurely. It is also important
that the well-to-do classes be encouraged to rear larger families, since it is these classes
which can best afford to give their children the higher forms of training and education. Lastly,
it is desirable to teach that leisure is disgraceful, and that whether one is rich or poor,
the useful and productive life is the moral and patriotic life. "He who does less well than
he can does ill."

175. DECREASING THE SUPPLY OF LABOR.--Hand in hand with measures deigned to increase the demand
for labor should go consistent efforts to decrease the supply of unskilled and poorly paid
labor. One of the most effective means of accomplishing this is to restrict by law the immigration
to this country of masses of unskilled workers which glut the American labor market and force
down the wages of unskilled workmen already here. The general problem of immigration will be
discussed elsewhere; here it is only necessary to note that as an economic proposition unrestricted
immigration is undesirable.

The supply of unskilled labor may be somewhat restricted by additional laws. It is clear that
we ought to pass and enforce laws which would prevent the propagation of mental defectives.
There ought also to be laws which would discourage the marriage of individuals who show no
promise of being able to rear and support children who are physically fit. It might not be
expedient to pass legislation requiring a certain minimum income of persons intending to marry,
but from the purely economic point of view, such laws would certainly be advisable.

Much in this general field can be done by non-legislative methods. Young people can be taught
the desirability of postponing marriage until their earnings justify the acceptance of such
a responsibility. Just as the well-to-do should be encouraged to prefer family-building to
social ambition, so the poorer classes ought to be encouraged to postpone marriage until, through
education or training, the proper support of a family is assured. This end must be secured
through moral and social education, rather than through legislation.

The encouragement of thrift among the poorer classes of the population is an important factor
in decreasing the supply of unskilled labor. Thrift increases savings, and by making possible
education or apprenticeship in a trade, it enables the children of the unskilled worker to
pass from the ranks of the poorly paid to the ranks of the relatively well paid. Thus not only
does the practice of thrift by the poor add to the amount of capital in existence, and thus
indirectly increase the demand for labor, but it helps the poor directly and immediately.

Vocational education is of fundamental importance in decreasing the supply of unskilled labor.
It renders higher wages economically justified by training individuals away from overcrowded
and hence poorly paid jobs, and toward those positions in which men are scarce, and hence highly
paid. If vocational education turns unskilled workmen into entrepreneurs, such education has
the doubly beneficial effect of lessening the supply of unskilled labor, and of increasing
the demand for labor. The importance of trade schools, continuation schools, and other agencies
of vocational education can hardly be exaggerated.

Employment bureaus and labor exchanges are essential to the democratic program of industrial
reform. Just as vocational education must move individuals from overcrowded to undercrowded
occupations, so the employment bureau should move laborers from places where they are relatively
little wanted, and hence poorly paid, to places where they are relatively much wanted, and
hence better paid. A coördinated system of national, state, and municipal employment bureaus
is a valuable part of our program of industrial reform.

176. IMPORTANCE OF PERSONAL EFFICIENCY.--We have seen that the bargaining position of the laborer
may be strengthened by any and all measures which would increase the demand for his labor,
relatively to the demand for the other factors of production. As a general proposition, this
strengthened position would tend automatically to result in higher wages.

Along with these measures it should not be forgotten that the industrial position of the individual
worker tends to improve in proportion as he increases his personal efficiency. It is of the
greatest importance that the individual should strive to secure as thorough an education as
possible, and that he safeguard himself against accident and disease. He should realize, also,
that employers seek men who are not only competent, but whose personal habits are attractive
and trust-inspiring. Regardless of the scarcity or oversupply of labor, personal efficiency
will tend to enable the worker to receive larger wages than would otherwise be possible.

177. SOMETHING MORE THAN HIGH WAGES IS NECESSARY.--We have taken some time to point out how
wages might be increased without violating economic law. But high wages do not necessarily
mean the abolition of poverty, indeed, actual investigations have proved that often poverty
exists regardless of whether wages are high or low. A family of four, for example, might be
well fed, comfortably clothed, and otherwise cared for in a normal manner, on, say, three dollars
a day, provided that sum were utilized wisely. A second family of equal size, however, might
spend six dollars a day so carelessly that the children would be denied such vital necessities
as medical attention and elementary education, while neither parents nor children would be
adequately provided with food or clothing.

178. INCOME MUST BE UTILIZED WISELY.--Thus an indispensable factor in the abolition of poverty
is the economical utilization of income. Aside from the fact that it increases the amount of
capital in existence, thrift is imperative if a family is to get the full benefit of its income.
In both the home and the school the child should be taught the proper care and utilization
of money. He should receive, in addition, fundamental instruction in such matters as expense-
accounting and budget-making. Of similarly great value is the training of boys and girls to
a proper appreciation of the home-making ideal, to which subject we shall return later. [Footnote:
See Chapter XXIII.]

It is fortunate that we are directing more and more attention to these and similar measures,
for they strike at the heart of one of the great causes of poverty--the inability of the individual
to make the proper use of his income. Unless our citizens are trained to spend money wisely,
and to distinguish clearly between the relative values of services and commodities, an increase
in wages will never eliminate malnutrition, illiteracy, and other elements of poverty.

179. SUMMARY.--For the sake of clearness, let us summarize the essential features of the democratic
program of industrial reform.

The first aim of this program is to give every individual precisely what he earns, no more,
no less. Applying the principle of justice would result in heavy taxes on unearned wealth secured
through inheritance, or as rent from land, or as monopoly profits.

The second aim of our program arises from the fact that justice might not improve the condition
of the laboring class, since some laborers manifestly could not earn enough to support themselves
and their families decently.

In addition to administering justice, therefore, we must put the individual in a position to
earn an amount adequate to his needs. This involves two lines of action: first, the bargaining
position of the laborer must be strengthened by measures designed to increase the demand for
his labor, relatively to the demand for the other factors of production; second, increasing
the personal efficiency of the worker will render him more attractive to the employer.

The third aim of the democratic program of industrial reform is to teach the individual to
use his income wisely and economically. Only after this has been done can we be assured that
the raising of wages will materially improve the condition of the worker.

180. SOCIAL PROBLEMS.--There is an important word to be said here. The democratic program of
industrial reform is economically sound, and ultimately it would eliminate poverty. But it
is not an immediate cure for all of the social and economic ills of American democracy. There
will long continue to be persons whom no amount of care can render capable of earning enough
to support themselves. There are many other individuals who may ultimately become self-supporting,
but who for some time to come will need special care and attention. There are, lastly, many
other individuals who are partially or entirely self- supporting,--women and children, for
example,--but whose social and economic interests need to be safeguarded by legislation. The
democratic program of industrial reform could ultimately eliminate many of the basic social
problems now confronting us; meantime we are under the necessity of grappling with such questions
as labor disputes, the risks of industry, crime, and dependency. Indeed, no matter how vigorously
and intelligently we attack the defects of capitalism, it is probable that we shall always
have to face grave social problems. Part III of the text will accordingly be devoted to a consideration
of American social problems.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. Why is there no simple remedy for the defects of capitalism?

2. What are the three aims of the program advanced in this chapter?

3. What is the nature of justice?

4. In what sense is an unfair distribution of wealth a double injustice?

5. Under what conditions would the raising of wages tend to result in national bankruptcy?

6. What are the three chief methods of redistributing unearned wealth?

7. Why does the elimination of poverty demand something more than justice?

8. What is the fundamental cause of low wages? Explain clearly.

9. What is an economical remedy for low wages?

10. Why will higher wages result from an increase in the demand for labor?

11. By what three methods may the demand for labor be increased?

12. Name some of the methods whereby the supply of labor may be decreased.

13. What is the importance of personal efficiency in our program?

14. What is the relation of wages to poverty?

15. What is the importance of an economical utilization of income?

16. Summarize the argument in this chapter.

17. Why is the program outlined not an immediate panacea for all social and economic ills?
Or all of the following:

2. Carver, Elementary Economics, chapters xiv, xxix, xxxi, and xivii.

3. Carver, Essays in Social Justice, chapter i.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Why does the need for justice arise? (Essays, page 3.)

2. What is the first duty of the state? (Essays, page 9.)

3. What is moral law? (Essays, page 23.)

4. What is the relation of meekness to national strength? (Essays, pages 33-34.)

5. What is meant by a "balanced nation"? (Elementary Economics, pages 118-119.)

6. What is the aim of balancing a population? (Elementary Economics, page 119.)

7. Name an important method of securing this balance. (Elementary Economics, pages 119-120.)

8. What classes of the population multiply the least rapidly? Why is this undesirable? (Elementary
Economics, page 120.)

9. What is the object of the "geographical redistribution of population"? (Elementary Economics,
page 120.)

10. Explain the working of the "law of variable proportions" in industry. (Elementary Economics,
pages 258-260.)

11. Why are there differences of wages in different occupations? (Elementary Economics, page 268.)

12. What is the "law of population"? (Elementary Economics, page 273.)

13. What is the effect of immigration upon wages? (Elementary Economics, pages 273-274.)

14. What are the two ways of getting men to do what is necessary for the prosperity of the
nation? Of these two ways, which is preferable? (Elementary Economics, pages 387-388.)

15. What are the dangers of freedom? (Elementary Economics, pages 389-390.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Make a study of the occupational groups in your locality for the purpose of discovering
which of these groups receive the lowest wages. Can you connect the fact that they receive
low wages with their numerical strength?

2. Is the supply of unskilled labor in your community affected by European immigration? If
so, attempt to trace the relation of this immigration to low wages in your community.

3. What classes of workmen receive the highest wages in your locality? What is the relation
of these high wages to the restricted number of this type of workman?

4. Study the methods by means of which land in your locality is utilized. In what ways, if
in any, could various plots be made to employ more laborers?

5. By what means could the supply of capital in your locality be increased? In what ways might
this increased supply of capital be utilized? To what extent would the utilization of this
increased supply of capital justify the employment of additional laborers?

6. Do you believe that your community needs more entrepreneurs? What reason have you for believing
that a training school for the technical professions would increase the productivity of your
community?

7. Write to the Bureau of Education in your state for data relative to the status of vocational
education in your commonwealth.

8. Interview one or more officials of a bank in your community for the purpose of learning
of the ways in which banks encourage thrift.

9. Write to the Bureau of Labor Statistics in your state for information relative to the status
of public employment bureaus in your commonwealth.

II

10. Causes of inequality. (Taussig, Principles of Economics, vol. ii, chapter liv.)

11. The Malthusian doctrine. (Malthus' Essay on Population. If this essay is not available,
consult an encyclopedia under "Malthus.")

12. The principle of self-interest. (Carver, Essays in Social Justice, chapter iii.)

13. How much is a man worth? (Carver, Essays in Social Justice, chapter vii.)

14. Causes of the scarcity of labor. (Carver, Elementary Economics, pages 269-271.)

15. The importance of consumption. (Carver, Elementary Economics, chapters xxxviii and xxxix.)

16. Importance of thrift. (Annals, vol. lxxxvii, pages 4-8.)

17. Luxury. (Carver, Elementary Economics, chapter xl.)

18. Choosing a vocation. (Parsons, Choosing a Vocation.)

PART III--AMERICAN SOCIAL PROBLEMS

CHAPTER XVIII

INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS

181. LABOR AND CAPITAL.--Strictly speaking, five distinct factors are involved in production:
land, labor, capital, coördination, and government. As a matter of fact, we are accustomed
to speak of the immediate conduct of industry as involving only two factors: labor and capital.
Used in this sense, the term labor refers to the masses of hired workmen, while the term capital
is held to include not only the individual who has money to invest, i.e. the capitalist proper,
but also the entrepreneur, or managing employer.

Labor and capital coöperate actively in production, while the other factors remain somewhat
in the background. As we have seen, both labor and capital are essential to industry, and fundamentally
their interests are reciprocal. But in spite of this basic harmony, there are many points of
difference and antagonism between labor and capital. This chapter discusses the more important
of these disagreements, and outlines some suggested methods of reducing or eliminating them.

182. THE FACTORY SYSTEM AND THE LABORER.--Wherever it has penetrated, the Industrial Revolution
has concentrated large numbers of landless laborers in industrial establishments controlled
by relatively few employers. Very early in the development of the factory system, the laborer
saw that he was at a relative disadvantage in bargaining with employers. Not only does the
average laborer lack funds to tide him over a long period of unemployment, but the fact that
his labor is generally his sole reliance obliges him to secure work at all hazards. The anxiety
and discontent of laborers have been increased by the realization that the factory system affords
little opportunity for the average workman to rise to the position of an employer. Most laborers
are unable to secure either the training or the capital necessary to set themselves up as independent
business men.

183. RISE OF LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.--The risks and limitations which the factory system imposes
upon the laboring classes have encouraged workmen to organize for the purpose of promoting
their mutual interests. The individual gains, it has been found, when his interests are supported
by a group of workmen acting as a unit, and bringing their united pressure to bear upon the
employer. The labor organization has been the result of this discovery. A labor organization
may be defined as a more or less permanent and continuous association of wage earners, entered
into for the purpose of improving the conditions of their employment.

The first labor organizations in the United States were formed early in the nineteenth century,
but it was not until about 1850 that the trade union assumed national importance. After 1850,
however, and particularly after the Civil War, the trade union grew rapidly. In 1881 a number
of national trade unions combined to form the American Federation of Labor. This body, while
exercising no real authority over the trade unions comprising it, is nevertheless an important
agency in coördinating trade union policies throughout the country. It is important, also,
as a means of formulating and expressing the aims and ideals of the working classes. The Federation
had a membership of 2,604,701 in 1914, and in 1920 included more than 4,500,000 members. With
the exception of the railroad brotherhoods, nearly all of the important trade unions in the
country are affiliated with the American Federation of Labor.

184. RISE OF EMPLOYERS' ASSOCIATIONS.--The growing power of the trade union after 1850 stimulated
the growth of employers' associations. In 1886 the first national employers' association was
organized under the name of the Stove Founders' National Defence Association. Later there was
formed a number of other important associations, including the National Association of Manufacturers,
the National Council for Industrial Defence, and the American Anti-Boycott Association.

The primary purpose of the employers' association is the protection of the employers' interests
against trade union aggression. Some of the associations are frankly hostile to the trade union
movement, while others take the stand that the organization of laborers is undesirable only
if the power of the trade union is abused. The promotion of friendly relations between labor
and capital is increasingly an important concern of the employers' association.

