And recalling what has been said in another part of this work, we may say that material things,
in so far as they are known to us, issue into knowledge through the agency of hunger, and out
of hunger issues the sensible or material universe in which we conglomerate these things; and
that ideal things issue out of love, and out of love issues God, in whom we conglomerate these
ideal things as in the Consciousness of the Universe. It is social consciousness, the child
of love, of the instinct of perpetuation, that leads us to socialize everything, to see society
in everything, and that shows us at last that all Nature is really an infinite Society. For
my part, the feeling that Nature is a society has taken hold of me hundreds of times in walking
through the woods possessed with a sense of solidarity with the oaks, a sense of their dim
awareness of my presence.

Imagination, which is the social sense, animates the inanimate and anthropomorphizes everything;
it humanizes everything and even makes everything identical with man.[36] And the work of man
is to supernaturalize Nature--that is to say, to make it divine by making it human, to help
it to become conscious of itself, in short. The action of reason, on the other hand, is to
mechanize or materialize.

And just as a fruitful union is consummated between the individual--who is, in a certain sense,
a society--and society, which is also an individual--the two being so inseparable from one
another that it is impossible to say where the one begins and the other ends, for they are
rather two aspects of a single essence--so also the spirit, the social element, which by relating
us to others makes us conscious, unites with matter, the individual and individualizing element;
similarly, reason or intelligence and imagination embrace in a mutually fruitful union, and
the Universe merges into one with God.

       *       *       *       *       *

Is all this true? And what is truth? I in my turn will ask, as Pilate asked--not, however,
only to turn away and wash my hands, without waiting for an answer.

Is truth in reason, or above reason, or beneath reason, or outside of reason, in some way or
another? Is only the rational true? May there not be a reality, by its very nature, unattainable
by reason, and perhaps, by its very nature, opposed to reason? And how can we know this reality
if reason alone holds the key to knowledge?

Our desire of living, our need of life, asks that that may be true which urges us to self-preservation
and self-perpetuation, which sustains man and society; it asks that the true water may be that
which assuages our thirst, and because it assuages it, that the true bread may be that which
satisfies our hunger, because it satisfies it.

The senses are devoted to the service of the instinct of preservation, and everything that
satisfies this need of preserving ourselves, even though it does not pass through the senses,
is nevertheless a kind of intimate penetration of reality in us. Is the process of assimilating
nutriment perhaps less real than the process of knowing the nutritive substance? It may be
said that to eat a loaf of bread is not the same thing as seeing, touching, or tasting it;
that in the one case it enters into our body, but not therefore into our consciousness. Is
this true? Does not the loaf of bread that I have converted into my flesh and blood enter more
into my consciousness than the other loaf which I see and touch, and of which I say: "This
is mine"? And must I refuse objective reality to the bread that I have thus converted into
my flesh and blood and made mine when I only touch it?

There are some who live by air without knowing it. In the same way, it may be, we live by God
and in God--in God the spirit and consciousness of society and of the whole Universe, in so
far as the Universe is also a society. 4; Deut. viii. 3).

And this personalization of the all, of the Universe, to which we are led by love, by pity,
is the personalization of a person who embraces and comprehends within himself the other persons
of which he is composed.

The only way to give finality to the world is to give it consciousness. For where there is
no consciousness there is no finality, finality presupposing a purpose. And, as we shall see,
faith in God is based simply upon the vital need of giving finality to existence, of making
it answer to a purpose. We need God, not in order to understand the why, but in order to feel
and sustain the ultimate wherefore, to give a meaning to the Universe.

And neither ought we to be surprised by the affirmation that this consciousness of the Universe
is composed and integrated by the consciousnesses of the beings which form the Universe, by
the consciousnesses of all the beings that exist, and that nevertheless it remains a personal
consciousness distinct from those which compose it. Only thus is it possible to understand
how in God we live, move, and have our being. That great visionary, Emanuel Swedenborg, saw
or caught a glimpse of this in his book on Heaven and Hell (De Coelo et Inferno, lii.), when
he tells us: "An entire angelic society appears sometimes in the form of a single angel, which
also it hath been granted me by the Lord to see. When the Lord Himself appears in the midst
of the angels, He doth not appear as encompassed by a multitude, but as a single being in angelic
form. Hence it is that the Lord in the Word is called an angel, and likewise that on entire
society is so called. Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael are nothing but angelical societies, which
are so named from their functions."

May we not perhaps live and love--that is, suffer and pity--in this all-enveloping Supreme
Person--we, all the persons who suffer and pity and all the beings that strive to achieve personality,
to acquire consciousness of their suffering and their limitation? And are we not, perhaps,
ideas of this total Grand Consciousness, which by thinking of us as existing confers existence
upon us? Does not our existence consist in being perceived and felt by God? And, further on,
this same visionary tells us, under the form of images, that each angel, each society of angels,
and the whole of heaven comprehensively surveyed, appear in human form, and in virtue of this
human form the Lord rules them as one man.

"God does not think, He creates; He does not exist, He is eternal," wrote Kierkegaard (Afslutende
uvidens-kabelige Efterskrift); but perhaps it is more exact to say with Mazzini, the mystic
of the Italian city, that "God is great because His thought is action" (Ai giovani d'ltalia),
because with Him to think is to create, and He gives existence to that which exists in His
thought by the mere fact of thinking it, and the impossible is the unthinkable by God. Is it
not written in the Scriptures that God creates with His word--that is to say, with His thought--and
that by this, by His Word, He made everything that exists? And what God has once made does
He ever forget? May it not be that all the thoughts that have ever passed through the Supreme
Consciousness still subsist therein? In Him, who is eternal, is not all existence eternalized?

Our longing to save consciousness, to give personal and human finality to the Universe and
to existence, is such that even in the midst of a supreme, an agonizing and lacerating sacrifice,
we should still hear the voice that assured us that if our consciousness disappears, it is
that the infinite and eternal Consciousness may be enriched thereby, that our souls may serve
as nutriment to the Universal Soul. Yes, I enrich God, because before I existed He did not
think of me as existing, because I am one more--one more even though among an infinity of others--who,
having really lived, really suffered, and really loved, abide in His bosom. It is the furious
longing to give finality to the Universe, to make it conscious and personal, that has brought
us to believe in God, to wish that God may exist, to create God, in a word. To create Him,
yes! This saying ought not to scandalize even the most devout theist. For to believe in God
is, in a certain sense, to create Him, although He first creates us.[37] It is He who in us
is continually creating Himself.

We have created God in order to save the Universe from nothingness, for all that is not consciousness
and eternal consciousness, conscious of its eternity and eternally conscious, is nothing more
than appearance. There is nothing truly real save that which feels, suffers, pities, loves,
and desires, save consciousness; there is nothing substantial but consciousness. And we need
God in order to save consciousness; not in order to think existence, but in order to live it;
not in order to know the why and how of it, but in order to feel the wherefore of it. Love
is a contradiction if there is no God.

Let us now consider this idea of God, of the logical God or the Supreme Reason, and of the
vital God or the God of the heart--that is, Supreme Love.

FOOTNOTES:

[36] Todo lo humaniza, y aun lo humana.

[37] In the translation it is impossible to retain the play upon the verbs crear, to create,
and creer, to believe: "Porque creer en Dios es en cierto modo crearle, aunque El nos cree
antes."--J.E.C.F.

VIII

FROM GOD TO GOD

To affirm that the religious sense is a sense of divinity and that it is impossible without
some abuse of the ordinary usages of human language to speak of an atheistic religion, is not,
I think, to do violence to the truth; although it is clear that everything will depend upon
the concept that we form of God, a concept which in its turn depends upon the concept of divinity.

Our proper procedure, in effect, will be to begin with this sense of divinity, before prefixing
to the concept of this quality the definite article and the capital letter and so converting
it into "the Divinity"--that is, into God. For man has not deduced the divine from God, but
rather he has reached God through the divine.

In the course of these somewhat wandering but at the same time urgent reflections upon the
tragic sense of life, I have already alluded to the timor fecit deos of Statius with the object
of limiting and correcting it. It is not my intention to trace yet once again the historical
processes by which peoples have arrived at the consciousness and concept of a personal God
like the God of Christianity. And I say peoples and not isolated individuals, for if there
is any feeling or concept that is truly collective and social it is the feeling and concept
of God, although the individual subsequently individualizes it. Philosophy may, and in fact
does, possess an individual origin; theology is necessarily collective.

Schleiermacher's theory, which attributes the origin, or rather the essence, of the religious
sense to the immediate and simple feeling of dependency, appears to be the most profound and
exact explanation. Primitive man, living in society, feels himself to be dependent upon the
mysterious forces invisibly environing him; he feels himself to be in social communion, not
only with beings like himself, his fellow-men, but with the whole of Nature, animate and inanimate,
which simply means, in other words, that he personalizes everything. Not only does he possess
a consciousness of the world, but he imagines that the world, like himself, possesses consciousness
also. Just as a child talks to his doll or his dog as if it understood what he was saying,
so the savage believes that his fetich hears him when he speaks to it, and that the angry storm-cloud
is aware of him and deliberately pursues him. For the newly born mind of the primitive natural
man has not yet wholly severed itself from the cords which still bind it to the womb of Nature,
neither has it clearly marked out the boundary that separates dreaming from waking, imagination
from reality.

The divine, therefore, was not originally something objective, but was rather the subjectivity
of consciousness projected exteriorly, the personalization of the world. The concept of divinity
arose out of the feeling of divinity, and the feeling of divinity is simply the dim and nascent
feeling of personality vented upon the outside world. And strictly speaking it is not possible
to speak of outside and inside, objective and subjective, when no such distinction was actually
felt; indeed it is precisely from this lack of distinction that the feeling and concept of
divinity proceed. The clearer our consciousness of the distinction between the objective and
the subjective, the more obscure is the feeling of divinity in us.

It has been said, and very justly so it would appear, that Hellenic paganism was not so much
polytheistic as pantheistic. I do not know that the belief in a multitude of gods, taking the
concept of God in the sense in which we understand it to-day, has ever really existed in any
human mind. And if by pantheism is understood the doctrine, not that everything and each individual
thing is God--a proposition which I find unthinkable--but that everything is divine, then it
may be said without any great abuse of language that paganism was pantheistic. Its gods not
only mixed among men but intermixed with them; they begat gods upon mortal women and upon goddesses
mortal men begat demi-gods. And if demi-gods, that is, demi-men, were believed to exist, it
was because the divine and the human were viewed as different aspects of the same reality.
The divinization of everything was simply its humanization. To say that the sun was a god was
equivalent to saying that it was a man, a human consciousness, more or less, aggrandized and
sublimated. And this is true of all beliefs from fetichism to Hellenic paganism.

The real distinction between gods and men consisted in the fact that the former were immortal.
A god came to be identical with an immortal man and a man was deified, reputed as a god, when
it was deemed that at his death he had not really died. Of certain heroes it was believed that
they were alive in the kingdom of the dead. And this is a point of great importance in estimating
the value of the concept of the divine.

In those republics of gods there was always some predominating god, some real monarch. It was
through the agency of this divine monarchy that primitive peoples were led from monocultism
to monotheism. Hence monarchy and monotheism are twin brethren. Zeus, Jupiter, was in process
of being converted into an only god, just as Jahwé originally one god among many others, came
to be converted into an only god, first the god of the people of Israel, then the god of humanity,
and finally the god of the whole universe.

Like monarchy, monotheism had a martial origin. "It is only on the march and in time of war,"
says Robertson Smith in The Prophets of Israel,[38] "that a nomad people feels any urgent need
of a central authority, and so it came about that in the first beginnings of national organization,
centring in the sanctuary of the ark, Israel was thought of mainly as the host of Jehovah.
The very name of Israel is martial, and means 'God (El) fighteth,' and Jehovah in the Old Testament
is Iahwè Çebäôth--the Jehovah of the armies of Israel. It was on the battlefield that Jehovah's
presence was most clearly realized; but in primitive nations the leader in time of war is also
the natural judge in time of peace."

God, the only God, issued, therefore, from man's sense of divinity as a warlike, monarchical
and social God. He revealed himself to the people as a whole, not to the individual. He was
the God of a people and he jealously exacted that worship should be rendered to him alone.
The transition from this monocultism to monotheism was effected largely by the individual action,
more philosophical perhaps than theological, of the prophets. It was, in fact, the individual
activity of the prophets that individualized the divinity. And above all by making the divinity
ethical.

Subsequently reason--that is, philosophy--took possession of this God who had arisen in the
human consciousness as a consequence of the sense of divinity in man, and tended to define
him and convert him into an idea. For to define a thing is to idealize it, a process which
necessitates the abstraction from it of its incommensurable or irrational element, its vital
essence. Thus the God of feeling, the divinity felt as a unique person and consciousness external
to us, although at the same time enveloping and sustaining us, was converted into the idea of God.

The logical, rational God, the ens summum, the primum movens, the Supreme Being of theological
philosophy, the God who is reached by the three famous ways of negation, eminence and causality,
viæ negationis, eminentiæ, causalitatis, is nothing but an idea of God, a dead thing. The traditional
and much debated proofs of his existence are, at bottom, merely a vain attempt to determine
his essence; for as Vinet has very well observed, existence is deduced from essence; and to
say that God exists, without saying what God is and how he is, is equivalent to saying nothing
at all.

And this God, arrived at by the methods of eminence and negation or abstraction of finite qualities,
ends by becoming an unthinkable God, a pure idea, a God of whom, by the very fact of his ideal
excellence, we can say that he is nothing, as indeed he has been defined by Scotus Erigena:
Deus propter excellentiam non inmerito nihil vocatur. Or in the words of the pseudo-Dionysius
the Areopagite, in his fifth Epistle, "The divine darkness is the inaccessible light in which
God is said to dwell." The anthropomorphic God, the God who is felt, in being purified of human,
and as such finite, relative and temporal, attributes, evaporates into the God of deism or
of pantheism.

The traditional so-called proofs of the existence of God all refer to this God-Idea, to this
logical God, the God by abstraction, and hence they really prove nothing, or rather, they prove
nothing more than the existence of this idea of God.

In my early youth, when first I began to be puzzled by these eternal problems, I read in a
book, the author of which I have no wish to recall,[39] this sentence: "God is the great X
placed over the ultimate barrier of human knowledge; in the measure in which science advances,
the barrier recedes." And I wrote in the margin, "On this side of the barrier, everything is
explained without Him; on the further side, nothing is explained, either with Him or without
Him; God therefore is superfluous." And so far as concerns the God-Idea, the God of the proofs,
I continue to be of the same opinion. Laplace is said to have stated that he had not found
the hypothesis of God necessary in order to construct his scheme of the origin of the Universe,
and it is very true. In no way whatever does the idea of God help us to understand better the
existence, the essence and the finality of the Universe.

