"SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That if Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland, or either
of those provinces, shall decline union with the United States, and the remaining provinces,
with the consent of Great Britain, shall accept the proposition of the United States, the foregoing
stipulations in favour of Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland, or either of them, will be
omitted; but in all other respects the United States will give full effect to the plan of union.
If Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick shall decline the proposition,
but Canada, British Columbia, and Vancouver Island shall, with the consent of Great Britain,
accept the same, the construction of a railway from Truro to Riviere du Loup, with all stipulations
relating to the maritime provinces, will form no part of the proposed plan of union, but the
same will be consummated in all other respects. If Canada shall decline the proposition, then
the stipulations in regard to the Saint Lawrence canals and a railway from Ottawa to Sault
Ste. Marie, with the Canadian clause of debt and revenue indemnity, will be relinquished. If
the plan of union shall only be accepted in regard to the north western territory and the Pacific
Provinces, the United States will aid the construction, on the terms named, of a railway from
the western extremity of Lake Superior, in the State of Minnesota, by way of Pembina, Fort
Garry, and the valley of the Saskatchewan, to the Pacific coast, north of latitude forty-nine
degrees, besides securing all the rights and privileges of an American territory to the proposed
territories of Selkirk, Saskatchewan, and Columbia."

So much for an outrage of a character unheard of and unparalleled. It was the result of "uncertain
sounds;" of "duffer" government.

Let me give some illustrations. Before we began the, finally successful, movement for the Intercolonial
Railway, the confederation of the Provinces of North America, and the final completion of a
railway binding the coasts of the Atlantic and Pacific together, the Right Hon. C. B. Adderley,
M.P., wrote a "letter to the Right Hon. B. Disraeli, M.P., on the present relations of England
with the Colonies." It was a skinflint document, and here are a couple of quotations:--

Page 57.--"I would have the Canadian Government, in the right time and manner, informed that
after a. certain date, unless war were going on, they would have to provide for their own garrisons,
as well as all their requisite peace establishments, as they might deem fit; and that they
should be prepared to hold their own in case of foreign attack, at least till the forces of
the Empire could come to their aid."

Page 50.--"Let Canada, however, by all means look to England in the hour of peril also; but
if the sight of English red-coats, at all times, has become a needful support of Canadian confidence,
and English pay has ceased to be resented as a symptom of dependence, we must bow humbly under
the conviction that Canada is no longer inhabited by men like those who conquered her."

Then I must quote my revered friend, Mr. Cobden, who, addressing his relative, Colonel Cole
(at one time administrator of New Brunswick), on the 20th March, 1865, only thirteen days before
his ever-to-be-lamented death, wrote about Canada: "We are two peoples to all intents and purposes,
and it is a perilous delusion to both parties to attempt to keep up a sham connection and dependence,
which will snap asunder if it should ever be put to the strain of stem reality. It is all very
well for our cockney newspapers to talk of defending Canada at all hazards. It would be just
as possible for the United States to sustain Yorkshire in a war with England as for us to enable
Canada to contend against the United States. It is simply an impossibility. We must not forget
that the only serious danger of a quarrel between these two neighbours arises from the connection
of Canada with this country. In my opinion it is for the interest of both that we should, as
speedily as possible, sever the political thread by which we are, as communities, connected,
and leave the individuals on both sides to cultivate the relations of commerce and friendly
intercourse as with other nations." ... "There is, I think, an inherent weakness in the parody
of our old English constitution, which is performed on the miniature scenes of the Colonial
capitals, with their speeches from the throne, votes of confidence, appeals to the country,
changes of ministry, &c., and all about such trumpery issues that the game at last becomes
ridiculous in the eyes of both spectators and actors."

Speaking in the House of Commons on the second reading of the British North America Bill, in
1867, Mr. Bright said: "Is this new State--or this new nation, as I think Lord Monck described
it--to be raised up under the authority of an Act of Parliament--is everything to be done for
it? Is it intended to garrison its fortresses by English troops?

In speaking on the Canada Railway Loan Bill in the House on the 28th March, 1867, Mr. Gladstone,
alluding to Canada, said: "We have carried it to this point, that as far as regards the Administration,
I believe it may be said that the only officer appointed by the Colonial Secretary is the Governor;
and I believe there cannot be a doubt that if it were the well-ascertained desire of the Colonies
to have the appointment of their own Governor, the Imperial Parliament would at once make over
to them that power."

I may, perhaps without presumption, here add two short speeches of mine in the House of Commons:
one, in reply to Mr. Bright in the discussion on the Confederation, or British North America
Bill, on the 28th February, 1867; the other, in reply to Mr. Lowe, on the Canada Loan Bill,
on the 28th March, 1867.

Language affecting the relations between the Mother Country and the Colonies, such as I have
quoted, does infinite mischief--more mischief than those who do not mix with the people can
understand. It is as bad in its consequences as the unfortunate policy of Mr. Gladstone: the
"Majuba Hill" policy.

[Hansard, vol. 185, page 1187, Feb. 28, 1867.]

"Mr. Watkin said he fully concurred in the statement of the right hon. gentleman (Sir John
Pakington), that the House of Representatives and the Senate of Nova Scotia had approved the
scheme of Confederation. The representative body approved it in 1861--not 1862, as the right
hon. gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty had stated.

"There was a general election in 1863, and the Prime Minister (Mr. Tupper) went through the
country preaching this Confederation of the Provinces. It was brought under the notice of the
electors at every polling-booth, and at every hustings the issue was distinctly raised. Well,
after that general election, the plan of the Government was sustained by an enormous majority
in the House of Representatives, and delegates were sent to the Conference to carry out the
plan. If there was any question on which the British North American Provinces not only had
enjoyed an opportunity of expressing, but had actually expressed, opinion, it was on this very
question of Confederation.

"Mention having been made of the name of Mr. Howe, whose acquaintance he had the honour of
possessing, he might state his own conviction that a man of purer patriotism, or one who had
rendered more able and distinguished service to the Crown of this country, did not exist. He
remembered the speech delivered by Mr. Howe some years ago at Detroit on the question of whether
the Reciprocity Treaty should be continued or not; and he believed it was in no small degree
owing to that remarkable speech--one of the most eloquent ever heard--that the unanimous verdict
in favour of continuing the treaty had been arrived at. It was matter of surprise and regret
to him that the valuable and life-long services of Mr. Howe had not received recognition at
the hands of either the late or the present Government.

"The hon. member for Birmingham seemed dissatisfied with the phrase used by Lord Monck respecting
the establishment of a new nation. Now he (Mr. Watkin) supported the Confederation, not as
the establishment of a new nation, but as the confirmation of an existing nation. It meant
this, that the people of the confederated colonies were to remain under the British Crown--or
it meant nothing. He joined issue with those who said, 'Let the Colonies stand by themselves.'
He dissented from the view that they were to separate from the control of the British Crown
the territory of this enormous Confederation. But there was a vast tract beyond Canada, extending
to the Pacific; and the House should bear in mind that more than half of North America was
under British dominion.

"Did the hon. member (Mr. Bright) think that it was best for civilization and for public liberty
that this half of the Continent should be annexed to the United States? If that were the opinion
of the hon. gentleman, he did not think it was the opinion of that House. Every man of common
sense knew that these territories could not stand by themselves; they must either be British
or American--under the Crown or under the Stars and Stripes. The hon. member for Birmingham
(Mr. Bright) might think that we should be the better for losing all territorial connection
with Canada; but he could not agree with that doctrine. Extent and variety were amongst the
elements of Imperial greatness.

"Descending to the lowest and most material view of the subject, he did not believe that, as
a mere money question, the separation would be for our interest.

"Take, again, the question of defence. Our North American possessions had a coast line of 1,000
miles on the east, and 800 on the west, and possessed some of the finest harbours on that Continent,
and a mercantile marine entitling it to the third rank among maritime nations. The moment these
advantages passed into the hands of the United States, that country would become the greatest
naval power in the world. In preserving commercial relations with the United States, the Canadian
frontier line of 3,000 miles was likewise extremely useful.

"As long as British power and enterprise extended along one side of this boundary line, and
as long as the tariff of extremely light duties was kept up by us, and that imposed only for
the purposes of revenue, it would be impossible for the United States to pursue what might
be called a Japanese policy.

"If England, therefore, desired to maintain her trade, even apart from other considerations,
it was desirable for her to maintain her North American possessions.

They had lately had to pass through a cotton famine, and they had been taught the inconvenience
of the prohibition of the export of cotton by the American Government.

"A large proportion of the corn imported into this country was brought from America, and in
what state would England find herself if all the food exports of North America were placed
under the control of the Government of Washington? If the frontier line became the sea coast,
what might be looked for then? Scarcely three years had elapsed since Mr. Cobden declared that
if there had not been a plentiful harvest in America he did not know where food could have
been procured for the people of this country.

"Now, the corn-growing fields of Upper Canada alone ranked fifth in point of productiveness.
Did England not wish to preserve this vast storehouse? Suppose that Canada belonged to America:
in the event of a quarrel with England there was nothing to prevent the United States from
declaring that not an ounce of food should leave its territories, which would then extend from
the Arctic regions to the Gulf of Mexico. He had hoped that upon this Bill, not only both sides
of the House, but every section of the House, might have been found in unison.

"It was no use blinking the question. This would not be a decision affecting Canada merely.
We had sympathies alike with Australia and the other Colonies. If it were seriously proposed
that England should denude herself of her possessions--give up India, Australia, North America,
and retire strictly within the confines of her own Islands, to make herself happy there,--the
same result might be brought about much more easily by those who wished it. They might become
citizens of some small country like Holland, and realize their ideas of happiness in a moment.
But he hesitated to believe that the people of England did really favour any such policy.

"If any one were to hoist the motto, 'Severance of the Colonies from the Crown,' he did not
believe that one per cent. of the people would adopt it. He believed that the people of England
felt a deep attachment to their Empire, and that not a barren rock over which the flag of England
had ever waved would be abandoned by them without a cogent and sufficient reason. Every argument
used in support of the necessity of giving up the Provinces, which lay within eight days of
our own shores, would apply with equal force in the case of Ireland, if the people of the United
States chose to demand possession.

"Was this country prepared to give up Gibraltar, Malta, Heligoland, all its outlying stations,
merely because some strong power took a fancy to them? He did not believe that the people of
England would ever act in such a spirit.

"As to the argument of expense, if Canada chose to pick a quarrel on her own account, clearly
she ought to pay the bill; but if she were involved in war on Imperial considerations, then
he maintained that the Imperial revenues might properly be resorted to.

"The British Empire was one and indivisible, or it was nothing. And what was the principle
upon which the United States acted? If any portion of the territory of the Union was touched,
were there one of its citizens who would not be ready and forward to defend it? Should we then
be less determined to maintain intact the greatness and the glory of the British Empire?

"He, for one, would not give up the opinion that Englishmen were prepared to maintain, in its
integrity, the greatness and glory of the Empire; and that such a feeling would find a hearty
response in that House."

"CANADA RAILWAY LOAN.

"[March 28, 1867.]

"In reply to Mr. Lowe and others, "Mr. Watkin said that, in following the right hon. gentleman
(Mr. Lowe), he felt very much as a quiet Roman citizen must have done on passing the chief
gladiator in the street-- inclined to pass over to the other side, and to have nothing to say
to him, for fear of the consequences.

"But some years ago he was requested by the late Duke of Newcastle to make inquiries, which
convinced him that the hobgoblin fears expressed that night in regard to the construction of
this 375 miles of railway were unfounded.

"Let hon. members remember that Her Majesty's American dominions extended over an area equal
to one-eighth of the habitable globe. This Railway gave us communication, not only with Canada
and with 10,000 miles of American railways, but with the vast tract of British territory extending
across to the Pacific. The consequence of making this Railway would be, that two days would
be saved in going from England to the northern continent of America, including the great corn-
growing district of the West.

"If the House had seen, as he had seen, the Canadian volunteers turn out in bitter winter to
repel a threatened invasion, without a red-coat near them, they would think that the right
hon. gentleman's taunts might have been spared.

"The British Provinces had taxed themselves 360,000l. a-year for the execution of these works,
which Lord Durham had proposed in 1838, with the object of binding together, by the means of
physical communication, the varied sections of the Queen's American dominions.

"The evidence of every military man, including Sir John Michell, the present Commander-in-Chief
in Canada, was that this Railway was absolutely necessary for the military defence of the Colonies.
It was, however, to be defended not only on that ground, but upon the ground of its great commercial
advantages.

"There were now in the Government offices memorials from many of the large towns in the three
kingdoms, concurring in the commercial necessity and advantages of the measure which the House
was now asked to agree to. Therefore, originating as it did with Lord Durham,-- sanctioned
as it was by Lord Grey's proposals of 1851--adopted by the late and present Governments,--demanded
for purposes of defence, as also for the more genial and generous objects of commerce and peace,--
he hoped the House would support the construction of the Railway by a guarantee, which would
not cost this country a shilling."

The motion for giving the guarantee was carried by 247 votes to 67--or by a majority of 180.

CHAPTER XV.

"Governor Dallas."

I should do injustice to my own loving memory of the man, if I did not publish some letters
from the late Governor Dallas, which are, to my mind, especially interesting. Though some of
his views, in 1863, as to the value of the Hudson's Bay lands, and their settlement, did not
accord with my own, yet his experience should plead against mine. No one was more pleased than
he to find that the country was in process-- after many delays, over which he and I used to
groan in concert--of successful colonization.

                                      "MONTREAL,
                                        "17th August, 1863.

"DEAR SIR,

"With reference to our late conversations upon various matters connected with the past and
future of the Hudson's Bay Company, I take the liberty of calling your attention to several
points of the business requiring immediate attention, in a more explicit manner than I may
have done in desultory conversation.

"The government of the territory is come almost to a dead-lock in the Red River Settlement,
and nothing short of direct administration under the authority of the Crown will, in my opinion,
remedy the evil. Two prisoners have been, in separate instances, forcibly rescued from jail,
and they, with about thirty to fifty others implicated in the riots, are still at large, fostering
discontent, and creating great disquiet. Their secret instigator controls the only paper published
in the settlement, and its continued attacks upon the Company find a greedy ear with the public
at large, both in the settlement and in Canada. The position of those in authority is so disagreeable
that I have had great difficulty in persuading the magistrates to continue to act. Mr. William
Mactavish, Governor of Assiniboin, has resigned his post, and I have only been restrained from
following his example, for a short time, in the hope that a remedy would speedily be applied,
and that I should be relieved from the unfair position in which I find myself placed, with
all the responsibility, and the semblance of authority over a vast territory, but unsupported,
if not ignored, by the Crown. In the absence of a just grievance, the cry of 'the Company'
is quite a sufficient watchword amongst the ignorant and discontented.

"The open malcontents are few in number, and I had ample volunteer force at my back to protect
the jail and support my authority, but, as I have already explained to you, I could exercise
but little control over my friends, who were keen for what would have ended in a free fight,
with the certain death of the sheriff and ringleaders on both sides, and led to endless animosities.
It required more resolution on my part to follow the course I did, than to have resisted the
rioters. For details of the transactions I refer you to my official letters to the Board, which
you will find in the Hudson's Bay House.

"Of the settlers, the greater number, including the French Canadians, are our staunch personal
friends, while the openly disaffected are but few. There is still, however, a considerable
portion of the people who, though taking no open part, are yet dissatisfied. Some of these
last named have real or imaginary grievances, of long standing to complain of, and nothing
but the extinction of the governing powers of the Company will satisfy them. I came amongst
them as free from prejudice as you can be, and determined to redress every grievance and meet
their wishes in every reasonable way, but to no avail. I have already transmitted to the Board
evidence in the 'Nor' Wester,' that our unpopularity arises entirely from the system of government,
and not from any faults in its administrators.

"A continuance of this state of matters may lead to the formation of a provisional government
by the people themselves, and to annexation to the United States, as have been threatened.
With the opening up of the St. Paul's route, there has been a large increase of the 'American'
element in the settlement; and in the enclosed copy of the 'Nor' Wester' of the 22nd July,
you will observe that the United States Government is quietly recruiting for its army in British
territory. This matter, I trust, may be in the meantime brought to the notice of the proper
authorities pending further information upon my return to Red River.

"The trust which the Board has placed in my hands, and the confidence reposed in my ability
to guide you in forming your plans for the future, impose on me no little responsibility and
anxiety. I must relieve my shoulders of this weight by stating plainly my belief that the opening
up of the country by waggon road and telegraph, and by the encouragement of settlement, must
prove so far detrimental to the current commercial business of the Company as to render it
difficult, if not impossible, to provide a fair dividend upon the portion of its capital embarked
in the trade. I do not, however, the less recognize the necessity of opening up the country
and its communications. It is not at all clear to my mind how you are to secure a remunerative
dividend upon the extra sum to be embarked in the erection of the telegraph, formation of roads,
&c., &c. In a commercial point of view, I do not consider it safe to enter upon these extended
operations till secure of a sufficient subsidy from the different Governments interested.

"Upon a mature consideration of the whole subject, I entirely concur in the views expressed
by Mr. Johnstone in his letter, of which I have already sent only an extract to Sir Edmund
Head, viz., that with the government of the country the territorial right should also revert
to the Crown, upon whatever terms might be arranged. Anything short of a full measure of this
sort would fail to satisfy the settlers and the public at large, who seem inclined to view
with distrust the present position of Her Majesty's Government in its supposed alliance with
the new Board of Direction.

"It is a question for consideration whether the northern region of the country beyond the limits
of probable settlement should not still remain under the control of the Company, with such
a monopoly of trade as would induce them to undertake the responsibility of managing the Indian
tribes, and excluding the introduction of ardent spirits. I make this suggestion solely on
behalf of the Indians, upon whom free intercourse with white men will, in my opinion, be ultimately
destructive.

"Having already impressed upon you the necessity of procuring from Her Majesty's Secretary
of State for the Colonies such instructions to the Governors of Vancouver's Island and British
Columbia as may put an end to all proceedings against us in the local courts, and place us
in possession of proper titles to our lands, I have now, in reminding you of the importance
of the matter, to hand you the enclosed extract of a private letter which I received yesterday
from Mr. D. Mactavish, senior member of our Board of Management in Victoria, which speaks for
itself.

"Though I have marked this communication 'private,' I shall be obliged by your laying it before
Sir Edmund Head, as I am so very hurried that I have not time at present to write officially
to the Board.

                               "I remain, dear Sir, yours faithfully,
                                      "A. G. DALLAS.

"E. WATKIN, Esq., London.

"P.S.--The undoubted discoveries of gold diggings in the Saskatchewan and other portions of
the territory is another strong reason why the land should revert to and be administered by
the Crown. Large grants to the Company would be looked upon with great disfavour by the public.

"A. G. D."

Extract private letter from D. Mactavish, Esq., to A. G. Dallas, dated Victoria, Vancouver's
Island, 13th July, 1863:--

"We hear nothing of our land question from the Governor, and there is no getting him to give
titles for the Company's lands at Hope, Yale, and Langley. Orders have come out for the Royal
Engineers to go to England immediately after the new year, so that Colonel Moodie and his staff
of surveyors will do no more work, their time being so nearly up--this is worrying, but cannot
be helped. The Governor has so much to do, making roads and so forth in British Columbia, that
there is no drawing his attention to our matters, and when we do call on him to act, his invariable
answer is, that he cannot get Moodie to do anything, and I daresay there is some truth in it,
as it is shrewdly surmised that His Excellency has had more to do with the recall of the Engineers
home than anyone else, and they all feel that they are leaving under a cloud."

                                      "MONTREAL,
                                        "17th Augt. 1863.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"Along with this I send you a letter which, though marked private, treats only of our affairs,
in such a manner that it may be laid before the Duke of Newcastle. It ought, I think, also
to be laid before Sir Edmund Head, and I shall refer him to it for my views. It is very important
that the whole of Johnstone's letter, and of my account of affairs at Red River, in regard
to the Corbett riots, addressed to the Board, should be read along with the above letter. I
do not think that we can ever make anything out of our lands, [Footnote: Experience has shown
that this was an error.] and I am therefore strongly of opinion that they should be transferred
to the Government upon certain terms, excepting only such lands around our forts as may be
necessary for our business, and our farms, &c. in actual occupation.

"Although a great outcry has been raised against us on account of our being a 'stop in the
way,' and enjoying a monopoly of trade, the cry is groundless. It may, therefore, be well for
you to know that for a number of years past we have enjoyed no monopoly of trade whatever,
and that there is no impediment to the settlement of the country by any one who pleases. A
settler may squat wherever he thinks fit, without question, or being called upon to pay for
lands yet unsurveyed, and of which the Indian titles are not yet extinguished. The small portion
of surveyed land in the district of Assiniboin has been all long since occupied, though not
paid for. With a recognized Government, there would be no difficulty in obtaining payment for
these lands from the occupiers.

"In erecting the telegraph, the Indian titles to the land ought to be extinguished by annual
payments; but the absence of a recognized and respected Government will be of itself a great
bar to the successful erection of the apparatus, and the preserving it and the various stations
in good order. Though, by increased energy and supervision, the fur trade may for a time be
maintained, yet you must not count upon increased profits, as with the opening up of the country
the furs are costing us more, and many of our posts are so distant that they cannot, from that
and a variety of causes, be placed all at once upon a proper footing, and it is very difficult
to exercise a proper supervision over them. It behoves the Company, therefore, to look out
for other sources of profit. One of these is that of banking operations, both here and at Red
River, and probably also at Victoria and at St. Paul, or other suitable locality in the U.
S. On this head I may again address you from Red River, and Mr. Hopkins will afford you every
information in regard to the prospects at this place, which are represented to be very great,
when you come out in September.

"I am just about starting for Lake St. John's on the Saguenay River, and shall be absent about
ten days. Upon my return I shall be ready to return to Red River--say, about the 1st September.

"Hoping you have had a pleasant passage, believe me,
                                      "Yours very truly,
                                        "E. WATKIN, Esq., London.

"A. G. DALLAS.

"P.S.--I do not see how the Company can make anything out of placer gold diggings in such a
country. The miners must be encouraged, and mining licences cannot be expected to do more than
pay the cost of collection, magistracy, police, &c. The surrender of all this territory to
the Crown, however, is a question to be dealt with by the Board. My aim is to disabuse you
of the idea that the Company can of itself turn the territory to profit by sale of lands, mining
rights, making roads, telegraph, &c.

"A. G. D."

                                      "MONTREAL,
                                        "18th August, 1863.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I left New York the evening of the day I parted from you, and reached this place on the Saturday
night, via Boston and Portland, quite done up, having travelled two nights without undressing.
The crowds were such as they were on the Hudson, and my mind often reverted to the good things
I left at the door of the steward's pantry in the 'Scotia,'

"Brydges is not yet back from Quebec, and Hopkins and I start to-morrow for the Saguenay and
St. John's Lake, where affairs require to be looked after.

"I have a letter to-day from St. Paul, in which Kittson says that the railroad gentry were
anxiously expecting you, and making much capital out of the expected visit. He adds, 'The people
of the State will not be so blind to their own interest as to decline to undertake to complete
the portion of telegraph required. I have no doubt that a company could immediately be formed
to accomplish the object.'

"Reverting to my grievance against the old Board, I wish to state what I complain of, viz.,
that I am charged with my passage across the Atlantic, and with a sum of L50, drawn to cover
travelling expenses to Montreal. These were charged against me in February, 1862, and have
borne interest against me since then.

"2ndly. I complain that I am charged interest on all sums drawn by me in each year--though
within the amount of that year's salary. I surely am entitled to draw my pay from time to time
to cover my expenditure? Officers in this country manage under the existing system of accounts
to get the benefit of funds, even in excess of their pay, for two years without interest.

