The more he thought about it the more nervous and anxious George became. Then it was decided
it would be necessary for him to break with the girl, and be "good" until the time of his marriage.
Dear little soft-eyed Lizette--he did not dare to face her personally; he could never bear
to say good-by, he felt. Instead, he went to the father, who as a man could be expected to
understand the situation. George was embarrassed and not a little nervous about it; for although
he had never misrepresented his attitude to the family, one could never feel entirely free
from the possibility of blackmail in such cases. However, Lizette's father behaved decently,
and was duly grateful for the moderate sum of money which George handed him in parting. He
promised to break the news gently to Lizette, and George went away with his mind made up that
he would never see her again.

This resolution he kept, and he considered himself very virtuous in doing it. But the truth
was that he had grown used to intimacy with a woman, and was restless without it. And that,
he told himself, was why he yielded to the shameful temptation the night of that fatal supper
party.

He paid for the misadventure liberally in remorse. He felt that he had been a wretch, that
he had disgraced himself forever, that he had proved himself unworthy of the pure girl he was
to marry. So keen was his feeling that it was several days before he could bring himself to
see Henriette again; and when he went, it was with a mind filled with a brand-new set of resolutions.
It was the last time that he would ever fall into error. He would be a new man from then on.
He thanked God that there was no chance of his sin being known, that he might have an opportunity
to prove his new determination.

So intense were his feelings that he could not help betraying a part of them to Henriette.
They sat in the garden one soft summer evening, with Henriette's mother occupied with her crocheting
at a decorous distance. George, in reverent and humble mood, began to drop vague hints that
he was really unworthy of his bride-to-be. He said that he had not always been as good as he
should have been; he said that her purity and sweetness had awakened in him new ideals; so
that he felt his old life had been full of blunders. Henriette, of course, had but the vaguest
of ideas as to what the blunders of a tender and generous young man like George might be. So
she only loved him the more for his humility, and was flattered to have such a fine effect
upon him, to awaken in him such moods of exaltation. When he told her that all men were bad,
and that no man was worthy of such a beautiful love, she was quite ravished, and wiped away
tears from her eyes.

It would have been a shame to spoil such a heavenly mood by telling the real truth. Instead,
George contented himself with telling of the new resolutions he had formed. After all, they
were the things which really mattered; for Henriette was going to live with his future, not
with his past.

It seemed to George a most wonderful thing, this innocence of a young girl, which enabled her
to move through a world of wickedness with unpolluted mind. It was a touching thing; and also,
as a prudent young man could not help realizing, a most convenient thing. He realized the importance
of preserving it, and thought that if he ever had a daughter, he would protect her as rigidly
as Henriette had been protected. He made haste to shy off from the subject of his "badness"
and to turn the conversation with what seemed a clever jest.

"If I am going to be so good," he said, "don't forget that you will have to be good also!"

"I will try," said Henriette, who was still serious.

"You will have to try hard," he persisted. "You will find that you have a very jealous husband."

