16. May it please His Majesty that the great munificence with which He hath dealt with me,
miserable sinner that I am, may have some weight with those who shall read this, so that they
may be strong and courageous enough to give up everything utterly for God.  If His Majesty
repays us so abundantly, that even in this life the reward and gain of those who serve Him
become visible, what will it be in the next?

1. Ch. xx. section 30.

2. Ch. xx. section 34.

3. Exod. xxiii. 15: "Non apparebis in conspectu meo vacuus."

4. Apoc. ii. 23: "Dabo unicuique vestrum secundum opera sua."

5. See ch. xxxii. section 1.

6. "Farsa de esta vida tan mal concertada."

7. Inner Fortress, iv. ch. i. section 11.

8. Rom. vii. 24: "Quis me liberabit de corpore mortis hujus?"

9. Ch. xvi. section 7.

10. 1 Cor. ii. 9: "Quae praeparavit Deus his qui diligunt Illum."

1. There is one thing I should like to say--I think it important: and if you, my father, approve,
it will serve for a lesson that possibly may be necessary; for in some books on prayer the
writers say that the soul, though it cannot in its own strength attain to this state,--because
it is altogether a supernatural work wrought in it by our Lord,--may nevertheless succeed,
by lifting up the spirit above all created things, and raising it upwards in humility, after
some years spent in a purgative life, and advancing in the illuminative.  I do not very well
know what they mean by illuminative: I understand it to mean the life of those who are making
progress.  And they advise us much to withdraw from all bodily imagination, and draw near to
the contemplation of the Divinity; for they say that those who have advanced so far would be
embarrassed or hindered in their way to the highest contemplation, if they regarded even the
Sacred Humanity itself. [1]  They defend their opinion [2] by bringing forward the words [3]
of our Lord to the Apostles, concerning the coming of the Holy Ghost; I mean that Coming which
was after the Ascension.  If the Apostles had believed, as they believed after the Coming of
the Holy Ghost, that He is both God and Man, His bodily Presence would, in my opinion, have
been no hindrance; for those words were not said to the Mother of God, though she loved Him
more than all. [4]  They think that, as this work of contemplation is wholly spiritual, any
bodily object whatever can disturb or hinder it.  They say that the contemplative should regard
himself as being within a definite space, God everywhere around, and himself absorbed in Him.
This is what we should aim at.

2. This seems to me right enough now and then; but to withdraw altogether from Christ, and
to compare His divine Body with our miseries or with any created thing whatever, is what I
cannot endure.  May God help me to explain myself!  I am not contradicting them on this point,
for they are learned and spiritual persons, understanding what they say: God, too, is guiding
souls by many ways and methods, as He has guided mine. It is of my own soul that I wish to
speak now,--I do not intermeddle with others,--and of the danger I was in because I would comply
with the directions I was reading.  I can well believe that he who has attained to union, and
advances no further,--that is, to raptures, visions, and other graces of God given to souls,--will
consider that opinion to be best, as I did myself: and if I had continued in it, I believe
I should never have reached the state I am in now.  I hold it to be a delusion: still, it may
be that it is I who am deluded.  But I will tell you what happened to me.

3. As I had no director, I used to read these books, where, by little and little, I thought
I might understand something. I found out afterwards that, if our Lord had not shown me the
way, I should have learned but little from books; for I understood really nothing till His
Majesty made me learn by experience: neither did I know what I was doing.  So, in the beginning,
when I attained to some degree of supernatural prayer,--I speak of the prayer of quiet,--I
laboured to remove from myself every thought of bodily objects; but I did not dare to lift
up my soul, for that I saw would be presumption in me, who was always so wicked. I thought,
however, that I had a sense of the presence of God: this was true, and I contrived to be in
a state of recollection before Him.  This method of prayer is full of sweetness, if God helps
us in it, and the joy of it is great. And so, because I was conscious of the profit and delight
which this way furnished me, no one could have brought me back to the contemplation of the
Sacred Humanity; for that seemed to me to be a real hindrance to prayer.

4. O Lord of my soul, and my Good!  Jesus Christ crucified! I never think of this opinion,
which I then held, without pain; I believe it was an act of high treason, though done in ignorance.
Hitherto, I had been all my life long so devout to the Sacred Humanity--for this happened but
lately; I mean by lately, that it was before our Lord gave me the grace of raptures and visions.
I did not continue long of this opinion, [5] and so I returned to my habit of delighting in
our Lord, particularly at Communion. I wish I could have His picture and image always before
my eyes, since I cannot have Him graven in my soul as deeply as I wish.

5. Is it possible, O my Lord, that I could have had the thought, if only for an hour, that
Thou couldst be a hindrance to my greatest good?  Whence are all my blessings? are they not
from Thee?  I will not think that I was blamable, for I was very sorry for it, and it was certainly
done in ignorance.  And so it pleased Thee, in Thy goodness, to succour me, by sending me one
who has delivered me from this delusion; and afterwards by showing Thyself to me so many times,
as I shall relate hereafter, [6] that I might clearly perceive how great my delusion was, and
also tell it to many persons; which I have done, as well as describe it as I am doing now.
I believe myself that this is the reason why so many souls, after advancing to the prayer of
union, make no further progress, and do not attain to very great liberty of spirit.

6. It seems to me, that there are two considerations on which I may ground this opinion.  Perhaps
I am saying nothing to the purpose, yet what I say is the result of experience; for my soul
was in a very evil plight, till our Lord enlightened it: all its joys were but sips; and when
it had come forth therefrom, it never found itself in that company which afterwards it had
in trials and temptations.

7. The first consideration is this: there is a little absence of humility--so secret and so
hidden, that we do not observe it. Who is there so proud and wretched as I, that, even after
labouring all his life in penances and prayers and persecutions, can possibly imagine himself
not to be exceedingly rich, most abundantly rewarded, when our Lord permits him to stand with
St. John at the foot of the cross?  I know not into whose head it could have entered to be
not satisfied with this, unless it be mine, which has gone wrong in every way where it should
have gone right onwards.

8. Then, if our constitution--or perhaps sickness--will not permit us always to think of His
Passion, because it is so painful, who is to hinder us from thinking of Him risen from the
grave, seeing that we have Him so near us in the Sacrament, where he is glorified, and where
we shall not see Him in His great weariness--scourged, streaming with blood, faint by the way,
persecuted by those to whom He had done good, and not believed in by the Apostles?  Certainly
it is not always that one can bear to meditate on sufferings so great as were those He underwent.
Behold Him here, before His ascension into heaven, without pain, all-glorious, giving strength
to some and courage to others. In the most Holy Sacrament, He is our companion, as if it was
not in His power to withdraw Himself for a moment from us.  And yet it was in my power to withdraw
from Thee, O my Lord, that I might serve Thee better!  It may be that I knew Thee not when
I sinned against Thee; but how could I, having once known Thee, ever think I should gain more
in this way?  O Lord, what an evil way I took! and I was going out of the way, if Thou hadst
not brought me back to it.  When I see Thee near me, I see all good things together. No trial
befalls me that is not easy to bear, when I think of Thee standing before those who judged Thee.

9. With so good a Friend and Captain ever present, Himself the first to suffer, everything
can be borne.  He helps, He strengthens, He never fails, He is the true Friend.  I see clearly,
and since then have always seen, that if we are to please God, and if He is to give us His
great graces, everything must pass through the hands of His most Sacred Humanity, in whom His
Majesty said that He is well pleased. [7]  I know this by repeated experience: our Lord has
told it me.  I have seen clearly that this is the door [8] by which we are to enter, if we
would have His supreme Majesty reveal to us His great secrets.

10. So, then, I would have your reverence seek no other way, even if you were arrived at the
highest contemplation.  This way is safe.  Our Lord is He by whom all good things come to us;
He will teach you.  Consider His life; that is the best example. What more can we want than
so good a Friend at our side, who will not forsake us when we are in trouble and distress,
as they do who belong to this world!  Blessed is he who truly loves Him, and who always has
Him near him!  Let us consider the glorious St. Paul, who seems as if Jesus was never absent
from his lips, as if he had Him deep down in his heart.  After I had heard this of some great
Saints given to contemplation, I considered the matter carefully; and I see that they walked
in no other way. St. Francis with the stigmata proves it, St. Antony of Padua with the Infant
Jesus; St. Bernard rejoiced in the Sacred Humanity; so did St. Catherine of Siena, and many
others, as your reverence knows better than I do.

11. This withdrawing from bodily objects must no doubt be good, seeing that it is recommended
by persons who are so spiritual; but, in my opinion, it ought to be done only when the soul
has made very great progress; for until then it is clear that the Creator must be sought for
through His creatures.  All this depends on the grace which our Lord distributes to every soul.
I do not intermeddle here.  What I would say is, that the most Sacred Humanity of Christ is
not to be counted among the objects from which we have to withdraw.  Let this be clearly understood.
I wish I knew how to explain it. [9]

12. When God suspends all the powers of the soul,--as we see He does in the states of prayer
already described,--it is clear that, whether we wish it or not, this presence is withdrawn.
Be it so, then.  The loss is a blessed one, because it takes place in order that we may have
a deeper fruition of what we seem to have lost; for at that moment the whole soul is occupied
in loving Him whom the understanding has toiled to know; and it loves what it has not comprehended,
and rejoices in what it could not have rejoiced in so well, if it had not lost itself, in order,
as I am saying, to gain itself the more.  But that we should carefully and laboriously accustom
ourselves not to strive with all our might to have always--and please God it be always!--the
most Sacred Humanity before our eyes,--this, I say, is what seems to me not to be right: it
is making the soul, as they say, to walk in the air; for it has nothing to rest on, how full
soever of God it may think itself to be.

13. It is a great matter for us to have our Lord before us as Man while we are living and in
the flesh.  This is that other inconvenience which I say must be met with.  The first--I have
already begun to describe it--is a little failure in humility, in that the soul desires to
rise of itself before our Lord raises it, and is not satisfied with meditation on so excellent
a subject,--seeking to be Mary before it has laboured with Martha. If our Lord will have a
soul to be Mary, even on the first day, there is nothing to be afraid of; but we must not be
self-invited guests, as I think I said on another occasion. [10]  This little mote of want
of humility, though in appearance a mere nothing, does a great deal of harm to those who wish
to advance in contemplation.

14. I now come back to the second consideration.  We are not angels, for we have a body; to
seek to make ourselves angels while we are on the earth, and so much on the earth as I was,
is an act of folly.  In general, our thoughts must have something to rest on, though the soul
may go forth out of itself now and then, or it may be very often so full of God as to be in
need of no created thing by the help of which it may recollect itself. But this is not so common
a case; for when we have many things to do, when we are persecuted and in trouble, when we
cannot have much rest, and when we have our seasons of dryness, Christ is our best Friend;
for we regard Him as Man, and behold Him faint and in trouble, and He is our Companion; and
when we shall have accustomed ourselves in this way, it is very easy to find Him near us, although
there will be occasions from time to time when we can do neither the one nor the other.

15. For this end, that is useful which I spoke of before: [11] we must not show ourselves as
labouring after spiritual consolations; come what may, to embrace the cross is the great thing.
The Lord of all consolation was Himself forsaken: they left Him alone in His sorrows.  Do not
let us forsake Him; for His hand will help us to rise more than any efforts we can make; and
He will withdraw Himself when He sees it be expedient for us, and when He pleaseth will also
draw the soul forth out of itself, as I said before. [12]

16. God is greatly pleased when He beholds a soul in its humility making His Son a Mediator
between itself and Him, and yet loving Him so much as to confess its own unworthiness, even
when He would raise it up to the highest contemplation, and saying with St. Peter: [13] "Go
Thou away from me, O Lord, for I am a sinful man."  I know this by experience: it was thus
that God directed my soul.  Others may walk, as I said before, [14] by another and a shorter
road.  What I have understood of the matter is this: that the whole foundation of prayer must
be laid in humility, and that the more a soul humbles itself in prayer, the more God lifts
it up.  I do not remember that He ever showed me any of those marvellous mercies, of which
I shall speak hereafter, [15] at any other time than when I was as one brought to nothing,
[16] by seeing how wicked I was.  Moreover, His Majesty contrived to make me understand matters
that helped me to know myself, but which I could never have even imagined of myself.

17. I believe myself that if a soul makes any efforts of its own to further itself in the way
of the prayer of union, and though it may seem to make immediate progress, it will quickly
fall back, because the foundations were not duly laid.  I fear, too, that such a soul will
never attain to true poverty of spirit, which consists in seeking consolation or sweetness,
not in prayer,--the consolations of the earth are already abandoned,--but rather in sorrows,
for the love of Him who always lived in sorrows Himself; [17] and in being calm in the midst
of sorrows and aridities.  Though the soul may feel it in some measure, there is no disquiet,
nor any of that pain which some persons suffer, who, if they are not always labouring with
the understanding and with a sense of devotion, think everything lost,--as if their efforts
merited so great a blessing!

18. I am not saying that men should not seek to be devout, nor that they should not stand with
great reverence in the presence of God, but only that they are not to vex themselves if they
cannot find even one good thought, as I said in another place; [18] for we are unprofitable
servants. [19]  What do we think we can do?  Our Lord grant that we understand this, and that
we may be those little asses who drive the windlass I spoke of: [20] these, though their eyes
are bandaged, and they do not understand what they are doing, yet draw up more water than the
gardener can draw with all his efforts.  We must walk in liberty on this road, committing ourselves
into the hands of God.  If it be His Majesty's good pleasure to raise us and place us among
His chamberlains and secret councillors, we must go willingly; if not, we must serve Him in
the lower offices of His house, and not sit down on the upper seats. [21]  As I have sometimes
said, [22] God is more careful of us than we are ourselves, and knows what each one of us is
fit for.

19. What use is there in governing oneself by oneself, when the whole will has been given up
to God? I think this less endurable now than in the first state of prayer, and it does much
greater harm; for these blessings are supernatural.  If a man has a bad voice, let him force
himself ever so much to sing, he will never improve it; but if God gives him a good voice,
he has no need to try it twice.  Let us, then, pray Him always to show His mercy upon us, with
a submissive spirit, yet trusting in the goodness of God.  And now that the soul is permitted
to sit at the feet of Christ, let it contrive not to quit its place, but keep it anyhow.  Let
it follow the example of the Magdalene; and when it shall be strong enough, God will lead it
into the wilderness. [23]

20. You, then, my father, must be content with this until you meet with some one of more experience
and better knowledge than I am.  If you see people who are beginning to taste of God, do not
trust them if they think that they advance more, and have a deeper fruition of God, when they
make efforts of their own. Oh, when God wills it, how He discovers Himself without these little
efforts of ours!  We may do what we like, but He throws the spirit into a trance as easily
as a giant takes up a straw; no resistance is possible.  What a thing to believe, that God
will wait till the toad shall fly of itself, when He has already willed it should do so!  Well,
it seems to me still more difficult and hard for our spirit to rise upwards, if God does not
raise it, seeing that it is burdened with earth, and hindered in a thousand ways.  Its willingness
to rise is of no service to it; for, though an aptness for flying be more natural to it than
to a toad, yet is it so sunk in the mire as to have lost it by its own fault.

21. I come, then, to this conclusion: whenever we think of Christ, we should remind ourselves
of the love that made Him bestow so many graces upon us, and also how great that love is which
our Lord God has shown us, in giving us such a pledge of the love He bears us; for love draws
forth love.  And though we are only at the very beginning, and exceedingly wicked, yet let
us always labour to keep this in view, and stir ourselves up to love; for if once our Lord
grants us this grace, of having this love imprinted in our hearts, everything will be easy,
and we shall do great things in a very short time, and with very little labour.  May His Majesty
give us that love,--He knows the great need we have of it,--for the sake of that love which
He bore us, and of His glorious Son, to whom it cost so much to make it known to us!  Amen.

22. There is one thing I should like to ask you, my father. How is it that, when our Lord begins
to bestow upon a soul a grace so great as this of perfect contemplation, it is not, as it ought
to be, perfect at once?  Certainly, it seems it should be so; for he who receives a grace so
great ought never more to seek consolations on earth.  How is it, I ask, that a soul which
has ecstasies and so far is more accustomed to receive graces, should yet seem to bring forth
fruits still higher and higher,--and the more so, the more it is detached,--when our Lord might
have sanctified it at once, the moment He came near it?  How is it, I ask again, that the same
Lord brings it to the perfection of virtue only in the course of time?  I should be glad to
learn the reason, for I know it not.  I do know, however, that in the beginning, when a trance
lasts only the twinkling of an eye, and is almost imperceptible but for the effects it produces,
the degree of strength which God then gives is very different from that which He gives when
this grace is a trance of longer duration.

23. Very often, when thinking of this, have I imagined the reason might be, that the soul does
not despise itself all at once, till our Lord instructs it by degrees, and makes it resolute,
and gives it the strength of manhood, so that it may trample utterly upon everything.  He gave
this strength to the Magdalene in a moment.  He gives the same grace to others, according to
the measure of their abandonment of themselves into the hands of His Majesty, that He may do
with them as He will. We never thoroughly believe that God rewards a hundredfold even in this
life. [24]

24. I also thought of this comparison: supposing grace given to those who are far advanced
to be the same with that given to those who are but beginners, we may then liken it to a certain
food of which many persons partake: they who eat a little retain the savour of it for a moment,
they who eat more are nourished by it, but those who eat much receive life and strength.  Now,
the soul may eat so frequently and so abundantly of this food of life as to have no pleasure
in eating any other food, because it sees how much good it derives from it.  Its taste is now
so formed upon it, that it would rather not live than have to eat any other food; for all food
but this has no other effect than to take away the sweet savour which this good food leaves behind.

25. Further, the conversation of good people does not profit us in one day as much as it does
in many; and we may converse with them long enough to become like them, by the grace of God.
In short, the whole matter is as His Majesty wills.  He gives His grace to whom He pleases;
but much depends on this: he who begins to receive this grace must make a firm resolution to
detach himself from all things, and esteem this grace according to reason.

26. It seems also to me as if His Majesty were going about to try those who love Him,--now
one, now another,--revealing Himself in supreme joy, so as to quicken our belief, if it should
be dead, in what He will give us, saying, Behold! this is but a drop of the immense sea of
blessings; for He leaves nothing undone for those He loves; and as He sees them receive it,
so He gives, and He gives Himself.  He loves those who love Him.  Oh, how dear He is!--how
good a Friend!  O my soul's Lord, who can find words to describe what Thou givest to those
who trust in Thee, and what they lose who come to this state, and yet dwell in themselves!
Oh, let not this be so, O my Lord! for Thou doest more than this when Thou comest to a lodging
so mean as mine.  Blessed be Thou for ever and ever!

27. I now humbly ask you, my father, if you mean to discuss what I have written on prayer with
spiritual persons, to see that they are so really; for if they be persons who know only one
way, or who have stood still midway, they will not be able to understand the matter.  There
are also some whom God leads at once by the highest way; these think that others might advance
in the same manner--quiet the understanding, and make bodily objects none of their means; but
these people will remain dry as a stick. Others, also, there are who, having for a moment attained
to the prayer of quiet, think forthwith that, as they have had the one, so they may have the
other.  These instead of advancing, go back, as I said before. [25]  So, throughout, experience
and discretion are necessary.  May our Lord, of His goodness, bestow them on us!

1. See Inner Fortress, vi. 7, section 4.

2. This opinion is supposed to be justified by the words of St. Thomas, 3 Sent. dist. 22, qu.
3, art. 1, ad quintum. "Corporalis praesentia Christi in duobus poterat esse nociva. Primo,
quantum ad fidem, quia videntes Eum in forma in qua erat minor Patre, non ita de facili crederent
Eum aequalem Patri, ut dicit glossa super Joannem.  Secundo, quantum ad dilectionem, quia Eum
non solum spiritualiter, sed etiam carnaliter diligeremus, conversantes cum Ipso corporaliter,
et hoc est de imperfectione dilectionis."

3. St. John xvi. 7: "Expedit vobis ut Ego vadam; si enim non abiero, Paracletus non veniet ad vos."

4. This sentence is in the margin of the original MS., not in the text, but in the handwriting
of the Saint (De la Fuente).

5. "I mean by lately . . . and visions" is in the margin of the MS., but in the handwriting
of the Saint (De la Fuente).

6. Ch. xxviii. section 4.

7. St. Matt. iii. 17: "Hic est Filius Meus dilectus, in quo Mihi complacui."

8. St. John x. 7, 9: "Ego sum ostium."

9. See St. John of the Cross, Mount Carmel, bk. iii. ch. i. p. 212.

10. Ch. xii. sections 5, 7.

11. Ch. xv. section 21.

12. Ch. xx. section 2.

13. St. Luke v. 8: "Exi a me, quia homo peccator sum, Domine."

14. Ch. xii. section 6.

15. Ch. xxviii.

16. Psalm lxxii. 22: "Et ego ad nihilum redactus sum, et nescivi."

17. Isaias liii. 3: "Virum dolorum, et scientem infirmitatem."

18. Ch. xi. section 15.

19. St. Luke xvii. 10: "Servi inutiles sumus."

20. Ch. xi. section 11.

21. St. Luke xiv. 8: "Non discumbas in primo loco."  See Way of Perfection, ch. xxvi. section
1; but ch. xvii. of the old editions.

22. Ch. xi. section 23, ch. xviii. section 6.

23. Os. ii. 14: "Ducam eam in solitudinem."

24. St. Matt. xix. 29: "Qui reliquerit domum, . . . centuplum accipiet."

25. Ch. xii. section 5.

1. I shall now return to that point in my life where I broke off, [1] having made, I believe,
a longer digression than I need have made, in order that what is still to come may be more
clearly understood.  Henceforth, it is another and a new book,--I mean, another and a new life.
Hitherto, my life was my own; my life, since I began to explain these methods of prayer, is
the life which God lived in me,--so it seems to me; for I feel it to be impossible that I should
have escaped in so short a time from ways and works that were so wicked.  May our Lord be praised,
who has delivered me from myself!

2. When, then, I began to avoid the occasions of sin, and to give myself more unto prayer,
our Lord also began to bestow His graces upon me, as one who desired, so it seemed, that I
too should be willing to receive them.  His Majesty began to give me most frequently the grace
of the prayer of quiet, and very often that of union, which lasted some time.  But as, in these
days, women have fallen into great delusions and deceits of Satan, [2] I began to be afraid,
because the joy and sweetness which I felt were so great, and very often beyond my power to
avoid.  On the other hand, I felt in myself a very deep conviction that God was with me, especially
when I was in prayer.  I saw, too, that I grew better and stronger thereby.

3. But if I was a little distracted, I began to be afraid, and to imagine that perhaps it was
Satan that suspended my understanding, making me think it to be good, in order to withdraw
me from mental prayer, hinder my meditation on the Passion, and debar me the use of my understanding:
this seemed to me, who did not comprehend the matter, to be a grievous loss but, as His Majesty
was pleased to give me light to offend Him no more, and to understand how much I owed Him,
this fear so grew upon me, that it made me seek diligently for spiritual persons with whom
I might treat of my state.  I had already heard of some; for the Fathers of the Society of
Jesus had come hither; [3] and I, though I knew none of them, was greatly attracted by them,
merely because I had heard of their way of life and of prayer; but I did not think myself fit
to speak to them, or strong enough to obey them; and this made me still more afraid; for to
converse with them, and remain what I was, seemed to me somewhat rude.

4. I spent some time in this state, till, after much inward contention and fear, I determined
to confer with some spiritual person, to ask him to tell me what that method of prayer was
which I was using, and to show me whether I was in error.  I was also resolved to do everything
I could not to offend God; for the want of courage of which I was conscious, as I said before,
[4] made me so timid.  Was there ever delusion so great as mine, O my God, when I withdrew
from good in order to become good! The devil must lay much stress on this in the beginning
of a course of virtue; for I could not overcome my repugnance. He knows that the whole relief
of the soul consists in conferring with the friends of God.  Hence it was that no time was
fixed in which I should resolve to do this.  I waited to grow better first, as I did before
when I ceased to pray, [5]--and perhaps I never should have become better; for I had now sunk
so deeply into the petty ways of an evil habit,--I could not convince myself that they were
wrong,--that I needed the help of others, who should hold out a hand to raise me up.  Blessed
be Thou, O Lord!--for the first hand outstretched to me was Thine.

5. When I saw that my fear was going so far, it struck me--because I was making progress in
prayer--that this must be a great blessing, or a very great evil; for I understood perfectly
that what had happened was something supernatural, because at times I was unable to withstand
it; to have it when I would was also impossible.  I thought to myself that there was no help
for it, but in keeping my conscience pure, avoiding every occasion even of venial sins; for
if it was the work of the Spirit of God, the gain was clear; and if the work of Satan, so long
as I strove to please, and did not offend, our Lord, Satan could do me little harm; on the
contrary, he must lose in the struggle. Determined on this course, and always praying God to
help me, striving also after purity of conscience for some days, I saw that my soul had not
strength to go forth alone to a perfection so great.  I had certain attachments to trifles,
which, though not very wrong in themselves, were yet enough to ruin all.

6. I was told of a learned ecclesiastic, [6] dwelling in this city, whose goodness and pious
life our Lord was beginning to make known to the world.  I contrived to make his acquaintance
through a saintly nobleman [7] living in the same place. This latter is a married man; but
his life is so edifying and virtuous, so given to prayer, and so full of charity, that the
goodness and perfection of it shine forth in all he does: and most justly so; for many souls
have been greatly blessed through him, because of his great gifts, which, though his condition
of a layman be a hindrance to him, never lie idle.  He is a man of great sense, and very gentle
with all people; his conversation is never wearisome, but so sweet and gracious, as well as
upright and holy, that he pleases everybody very much with whom he has any relations.  He directs
it all to the great good of those souls with whom he converses and he seems to have no other
end in view but to do all he may be permitted to do for all men, and make them content.

7. This blessed and holy man, then, seems to me, by the pains he took, to have been the beginning
of salvation to my soul. His humility in his relations with me makes me wonder; for he had
spent, I believe, nearly forty years in prayer,--it may be two or three years less,--and all
his life was ordered with that perfection which his state admitted.  His wife is so great a
servant of God, and so full of charity, that nothing is lost to him on her account, [8]--in
short, she was the chosen wife of one who God knew would serve Him so well.  Some of their
kindred are married to some of mine.  Besides, I had also much communication with another great
servant of God, married to one of my first cousins.

8. It was thus I contrived that the ecclesiastic I speak of, who was so great a servant of
God, and his great friend, should come to speak to me, intending to confess to him, and to
take him for my director.  When he had brought him to speak to me, I, in the greatest confusion
at finding myself in the presence of so holy a man, revealed to him the state of my soul, and
my way of prayer. He would not be my confessor; he said that he was very much occupied: and
so, indeed, he was.  He began with a holy resolution to direct me as if I was strong,--I ought
to have been strong, according to the method of prayer which he saw I used,--so that I should
in nothing offend God.  When I saw that he was resolved to make me break off at once with the
petty ways I spoke of before, [9] and that I had not the courage to go forth at once in the
perfection he required of me, I was distressed; and when I perceived that he ordered the affairs
of my soul as if I ought to be perfect at once, I saw that much more care was necessary in
my case.  In a word, I felt that the means he would have employed were not those by which my
soul could be helped onwards; for they were fitted for a soul more perfect than mine; and though
the graces I had received from God were very many, I was still at the very beginning in the
matter of virtue and of mortification.

9. I believe certainly, if I had only had this ecclesiastic to confer with, that my soul would
have made no progress; for the pain it gave me to see that I was not doing--and, as I thought,
could not do--what he told me, was enough to destroy all hope, and make me abandon the matter
altogether.  I wonder at times how it was that he, being one who had a particular grace for
the direction of beginners in the way of God, was not permitted to understand my case, or to
undertake the care of my soul.  I see it was all for my greater good, in order that I might
know and converse with persons so holy as the members of the Society of Jesus.

10. After this, I arranged with that saintly nobleman that he should come and see me now and
then.  It shows how deep his humility was; for he consented to converse with a person so wicked
as I was.  He began his visits, he encouraged me, and told me that I ought not to suppose I
could give up everything in one day; God would bring it about by degrees: he himself had for
some years been unable to free himself from some very slight imperfections.  O humility! what
great blessings thou bringest to those in whom thou dwellest, and to them who draw near to
those who possess thee!  This holy man--for I think I may justly call him so--told me of weaknesses
of his own, in order to help me. He, in his humility, thought them weaknesses; but, if we consider
his state, they were neither faults nor imperfections; yet, in my state, it was a very great
fault to be subject to them.

11. I am not saying this without a meaning, though I seem to be enlarging on trifles; but these
trifles contribute so much towards the beginning of the soul's progress and its flight upwards,
though it has no wings, as they say; and yet no one will believe it who has not had experience
of it; but, as I hope in God that your reverence will help many a soul, I speak of it here.
My whole salvation depended on his knowing how to treat me, on his humility, on the charity
with which he conversed with me, and on his patient endurance of me when he saw that I did
not mend my ways at once.  He went on discreetly, by degrees showing me how to overcome Satan.
My affection for him so grew upon me, that I never was more at ease than on the day I used
to see him. I saw him, however, very rarely.  When he was long in coming, I used to be very
much distressed, thinking that he would not see me because I was so wicked.

12. When he found out my great imperfections, they might well have been sins, though since
I conversed with him I am somewhat improved,--and when I recounted to him, in order to obtain
light from him, the great graces which God had bestowed upon me, he told me that these things
were inconsistent one with another; that these consolations were given to people who had made
great progress, and led mortified lives; that he could not help being very much afraid--he
thought that the evil spirit might have something to do in my case; he would not decide that
question, however, but he would have me carefully consider my whole method of prayer, and then
tell him of it.  That was the difficulty: I did not understand it myself, and so I could tell
him nothing of my prayer; for the grace to understand it--and, understanding it, to describe
it--has only lately been given me of God. This saying of his, together with the fear I was
in, distressed me exceedingly, and I cried; for certainly I was anxious to please God, and
I could not persuade myself that Satan had anything to do with it.  But I was afraid, on account
of my great sins, that God might leave me blind, so that I should understand nothing.

13. Looking into books to see if I could find anything there by which I might recognise the
prayer I practised, I found in one of them, called the Ascent of the Mount, [10] and in that
part of it which relates to the union of the soul with God, all those marks which I had in
myself, in that I could not think of anything. This is what I most dwelt on--that I could think
of nothing when I was in prayer.  I marked that passage, and gave him the book, that he, and
the ecclesiastic mentioned before, [11] saint and servant of God, might consider it, and tell
me what I should do. If they thought it right, I would give up that method of prayer altogether;
for why should I expose myself to danger, when, at the end of nearly twenty years, during which
I had used it, I had gained nothing, but had fallen into a delusion of the devil? It was better
for me to give it up.  And yet this seemed to me hard; for I had already discovered what my
soul would become without prayer.  Everything seemed full of trouble.  I was like a person
in the middle of a river, who, in whatever direction he may turn, fears a still greater danger,
and is well-nigh drowned. This is a very great trial, and I have gone through many like it,
as I shall show hereafter; [12] and though it does not seem to be of any importance, it will
perhaps be advantageous to understand how the spirit is to be tried.

14. And certainly the affliction to be borne is great, and caution is necessary, particularly
in the case of women,--for our weakness is great,--and much evil may be the result of telling
them very distinctly that the devil is busy with them; yea, rather, the matter should be very
carefully considered, and they should be removed out of reach of the dangers that may arise.
They should be advised to keep things secret; and it is necessary, also, that their secret
should be kept.  I am speaking of this as one to whom it has been a sore trouble; for some
of those with whom I spoke of my prayer did not keep my secret, but, making inquiries one of
another, for a good purpose, did me much harm; for they made things known which might well
have remained secret, because not intended for every one and it seemed as if I had made them
public myself. [13]

15. I believe that our Lord permitted [14] this to be done without sin on their part, in order
that I might suffer.  I do not say that they revealed anything I discussed with them in confession;
still, as they were persons to whom, in my fears, I gave a full account of myself, in order
that they might give me light, I thought they ought to have been silent.  Nevertheless, I never
dared to conceal anything from such persons.  My meaning, then, is, that women should be directed
with much discretion; their directors should encourage them, and bide the time when our Lord
will help them, as He has helped me.  If He had not, the greatest harm would have befallen
me, for I was in great fear and dread; and as I suffered from disease of the heart, [15] I
am astonished that all this did not do me a great deal of harm.

16. Then, when I had given him the book, and told the story of my life and of my sins, the
best way I could in general,--for I was not in confession, because he was a layman; yet I gave
him clearly to understand how wicked I was,--those two servants of God, with great charity
and affection, considered what was best for me.  When they had made up their minds what to
say,--I was waiting for it in great dread, having begged many persons to pray to God for me,
and I too had prayed much during those days,--the nobleman came to me in great distress, and
said that, in the opinion of both, I was deluded by an evil spirit; that the best thing for
me to do was to apply to a certain father of the Society of Jesus, who would come to me if
I sent for him, saying I had need of him; that I ought, in a general confession, to give him
an account of my whole life, and of the state I was in,--and all with great clearness: God
would, in virtue of the Sacrament of Confession, give him more light concerning me; for those
fathers were very experienced men in matters of spirituality. Further, I was not to swerve
in a single point from the counsels of that father; for I was in great danger, if I had no
one to direct me.

17. This answer so alarmed and distressed me, that I knew not what to do--I did nothing but
cry.  Being in an oratory in great affliction, not knowing what would become of me, I read
in a book--it seemed as if our Lord had put it into my hands--that St. Paul said, God is faithful;
[16] that He will never permit Satan to deceive those who love Him.  This gave me great consolation.
I began to prepare for my general confession, and to write out all the evil and all the good:
a history of my life, as clearly as I understood it, and knew how to make it, omitting nothing
whatever.  I remember, when I saw I had written so much evil, and scarcely anything that was
good, that I was exceedingly distressed and sorrowful.  It pained me, also, that the nuns of
the community should see me converse with such holy persons as those of the Society of Jesus;
for I was afraid of my own wickedness, and I thought I should be obliged to cease from it,
and give up my amusements; and that if I did not do so, I should grow worse: so I persuaded
the sacristan and the portress to tell no one of it.  This was of little use, after all; for
when I was called down there was one at the door, as it happened, who told it to the whole
convent.  But what difficulties and what terrors Satan troubles them with who would draw near
unto God!

18. I communicated the whole state of my soul to that servant of God [17] and he was a great
servant of His, and very prudent. He understood all I told him, explained it to me, and encouraged
me greatly.  He said that all was very evidently the work of the Spirit of God; only it was
necessary for me to go back again to my prayer, because I was not well grounded, and had not
begun to understand what mortification meant,--that was true, for I do not think I knew it
even by name,--that I was by no means to give up prayer; on the contrary, I was to do violence
to myself in order to practise it, because God had bestowed on me such special graces as made
it impossible to say whether it was, or was not, the will of our Lord to do good to many through
me. He went further, for he seems to have prophesied of that which our Lord afterwards did
with me, and said that I should be very much to blame if I did not correspond with the graces
which God bestowed upon me.  It seems to me that the Holy Ghost was speaking by his mouth in
order to heal my soul, so deep was the impression he made.  He made me very much ashamed of
myself, and directed me by a way which seemed to change me altogether.  What a grand thing
it is to understand a soul!  He told me to make my prayer every day on some mystery of the
Passion, and that I should profit by it, and to fix my thoughts on the Sacred Humanity only,
resisting to the utmost of my power those recollections and delights, to which I was not to
yield in any way till he gave me further directions in the matter.

19. He left me consoled and fortified: our Lord came to my succour and to his, so that he might
understand the state I was in, and how he was to direct me.  I made a firm resolution not to
swerve from anything he might command me, and to this day I have kept it.  Our Lord be praised,
who has given me grace to be obedient to my confessors, [18] however imperfectly!--and they
have almost always been those blessed men of the Society of Jesus; though, as I said, I have
but imperfectly obeyed them. My soul began to improve visibly, as I am now going to say.

1. At the end of ch. ix.  The thirteen chapters interposed between that and this--the twenty-third--are
a treatise on mystical theology.

2. She refers to Magdalene of the Cross (Reforma de los Descalcos, vol. i. lib. i. c. xix.
section 2).

3. The college of the Society at Avila was founded in 1555; but some of the Fathers had come
thither in 1553 (De la Fuente).

4. Ch. vii. section 37.

5. Ch. xix. sections 7, 8.

6. Gaspar Daza had formed a society of priests in Avila, and was a very laborious and holy
man.  It was he who said the first Mass in the monastery of St. Joseph, founded by 5t. Teresa,
whom he survived, dying Nov. 24, 1592.  He committed the direction of his priests to F. Baltasar
Alvarez (Bouix).  Juan of Avila acted much in the same way when the Jesuits settled in Avila
(De la Fuente).

7. Don Francisco de Salcedo.  After the death of his wife, he became a priest, and was chaplain
and confessor of the Carmelite nuns of St. Joseph.  For twenty years of his married life he
attended regularly the theological lectures of the Dominicans, in the house of St. Thomas.
His death took place Sept. 12, 1580, when he had been a priest for ten years (St. Teresa's
Letters, vol. iv. letter 43, note 13: letter 368, ed. of De la Fuente).

8. Dona Mencia del Aguila (De la Fuente, in a note on letter 10, vol. ii. p. 9, where he corrects
himself,--having previously called her Mencia de Avila).

9. Section 4.

10. Subida del Monte Sion, by a Franciscan friar, Bernardino de Laredo (Reforma, vol. i. lib.
i. c. xix. section 7).

11. Section 6.

12. See ch. xxv. section 18.

13. See ch. xxviii. section 18.

14. See Relation, vii. section 17.

15. See ch. iv. section 6.

16.

17. F. Juan de Padranos, whom St. Francis de Borja had sent in 1555, with F. Fernando Alvarez
del Aguila, to found the house of the Society in Avila (De la Fuente).  Ribera, i. 5, says
he heard that F. Juan de Padranos gave in part the Exercises of St. Ignatius to the Saint.

18. See Relation, i. section 9.

1. After this my confession, my soul was so docile that, as it seems to me, there was nothing
in the world I was not prepared to undertake.  I began at once to make a change in many things,
though my confessor never pressed me--on the contrary, he seemed to make light of it all. 
I was the more influenced by this, because he led me on by the way of the love of God; he left
me free, and did not press me, unless I did so myself, out of love. I continued thus nearly
two months, doing all I could to resist the sweetness and graces that God sent.  As to my outward
life, the change was visible; for our Lord gave me courage to go through with certain things,
of which those who knew me--and even those in the community--said that they seemed to them
extreme; and, indeed, compared with what I had been accustomed to do, they were extreme: people,
therefore, had reason to say so.  Yet, in those things which were of obligation, considering
the habit I wore, and the profession I had made, I was still deficient. By resisting the sweetness
and joys which God sent me, I gained this, that His Majesty taught me Himself; for, previously,
I used to think that, in order to obtain sweetness in prayer, it was necessary for me to hide
myself in secret places, and so I scarcely dared to stir.  Afterwards, I saw how little that
was to the purpose; for the more I tried to distract myself, the more our Lord poured over
me that sweetness and joy which seemed to me to be flowing around me, so that I could not in
any way escape from it: and so it was.  I was so careful about this resistance, that it was
a pain to me.  But our Lord was more careful to show His mercies, and during those two months
to reveal Himself more than before, so that I might the better comprehend that it was no longer
in my power to resist Him.

2. I began with a renewed love of the most Sacred Humanity; my prayer began to be solid, like
a house, the foundations of which are strong; and I was inclined to practise greater penance,
having been negligent in this matter hitherto because of my great infirmities.  The holy man
who heard my confession told me that certain penances would not hurt me, and that God perhaps
sent me so much sickness because I did no penance; His Majesty would therefore impose it Himself.
He ordered me to practise certain acts of mortification not very pleasant for me. [1] I did
so, because I felt that our Lord was enjoining it all, and giving him grace to command me in
such a way as to make me obedient unto him.

3. My soul was now sensitive to every offence I committed against God, however slight it might
be; so much so, that if I had any superfluity about me, I could not recollect myself in prayer
till I had got rid of it.  I prayed earnestly that our Lord would hold me by the hand, and
not suffer me to fall again, now that I was under the direction of His servants.  I thought
that would be a great evil, and that they would lose their credit through me.

4. At this time, Father Francis, who was Duke of Gandia, [2] came here; he had left all he
possessed some years before, and had entered the Society of Jesus.  My confessor, and the nobleman
of whom I spoke before, [3] contrived that he should visit me, in order that I might speak
to him, and give him an account of my way of prayer; for they knew him to be greatly favoured
and comforted of God: he had given up much, and was rewarded for it even in this life.  When
he had heard me, he said to me that it was the work of the Spirit of God, [4] and that he thought
it was not right now to prolong that resistance; that hitherto it had been safe enough,--only,
I should always begin my prayer by meditating on some part of the Passion and that if our Lord
should then raise up my spirit, I should make no resistance, but suffer His Majesty to raise
it upwards, I myself not seeking it. He gave both medicine and advice, as one who had made
great progress himself; for experience is very important in these matters.  He said that further
resistance would be a mistake. I was exceedingly consoled; so, too, was the nobleman, who rejoiced
greatly when he was told that it was the work of God. He always helped me and gave me advice
according to his power,--and that power was great.

5. At this time, they changed my confessor's residence.  I felt it very much, for I thought
I should go back to my wickedness, and that it was not possible to find another such as he.
My soul was, as it were, in a desert, most sorrowful and afraid.  I knew not what to do with
myself.  One of my kinswomen contrived to get me into her house, and I contrived at once to
find another confessor, [5] in the Society of Jesus.  It pleased our Lord that I should commence
a friendship with a noble lady, [6] a widow, much given to prayer, who had much to do with
the fathers. She made her own confessor [7] hear me, and I remained in her house some days.
She lived near, and I delighted in the many conferences I had with the fathers; for merely
by observing the holiness of their way of life, I felt that my soul profited exceedingly.

6. This father began by putting me in the way of greater perfection.  He used to say to me,
that I ought to leave nothing undone that I might be wholly pleasing unto God.  He was, however,
very prudent and very gentle at the same time; for my soul was not at all strong, but rather
very weak, especially as to giving up certain friendships, though I did not offend God by them:
there was much natural affection in them, and I thought it would be an act of ingratitude if
I broke them off.  And so, as I did not offend God, I asked him if I must be ungrateful.  He
told me to lay the matter before God for a few days, and recite the hymn, "Veni, Creator,"
that God might enlighten me as to the better course.  One day, having prayed for some time,
and implored our Lord to help me to please Him in all things, I began the hymn; and as I was
saying it, I fell into a trance--so suddenly, that I was, as it were, carried out of myself.
I could have no doubt about it, for it was most plain.

7. This was the first time that our Lord bestowed on me the grace of ecstasy.  I heard these
words: "I will not have thee converse with men, but with angels."  This made me wonder very
much; for the commotion of my spirit was great, and these words were uttered in the very depth
of my soul.  They made me afraid,--though, on the other hand, they gave me great comfort, which,
when I had lost the fear,--caused, I believe, by the strangeness of the visitation,--remained
with me.

8. Those words have been fulfilled; for I have never been able to form friendship with, nor
have any comfort in, nor any particular love for, any persons whatever except those who, as
I believe, love God, and who strive to serve Him.  It has not been in my power to do it.  It
is nothing to me that they are my kindred, or my friends, if I do not know them to be lovers
of God, or persons given to prayer.  It is to me a painful cross to converse with any one.
This is the truth, so far as I can judge. [8] From that day forth, I have had courage so great
as to leave all things for God, who in one moment--and it seems to me but a moment--was pleased
to change His servant into another person. Accordingly, there was no necessity for laying further
commands upon me in this matter.  When my confessor saw how much I clung to these friendships,
he did not venture to bid me distinctly to give them up.  He must have waited till our Lord
did the work--as He did Himself.  Nor did I think myself that I could succeed; for I had tried
before, and the pain it gave me was so great that I abandoned the attempt, on the ground that
there was nothing unseemly in those attachments.  Now our Lord set me at liberty, and gave
me strength also to use it.

9. So I told my confessor of it, and gave up everything, according to his advice.  It did a
great deal of good to those with whom I used to converse, to see my determination.  God be
blessed for ever! Who in one moment set me free, while I had been for many years making many
efforts, and had never succeeded, very often also doing such violence to myself as injured
my health; but, as it was done by Him Who is almighty, and the true Lord of all, it gave me
no pain whatever.

1. The Saint now treated her body with extreme severity, disciplining herself even unto blood
(Reforma, vol. i. lib. i. c. xx. section 4).

2. St. Francis de Borja came to Avila, where St. Teresa lived, in 1557 (De la Fuente).  This
passage must have been written after the foundation of St. Joseph, for it was not in the first
Life, as the Saint says, ch. x. section 11, that he kept secret the names of herself and all
others.

3. Ch. xxiii. section 6.

4. See Relation, viii. section 6.

5. Who he was is not certainly known.  The Bollandists decline to give an opinion: but F. Bouix
thinks it was F. Ferdinand Alvarez, who became her confessor on the removal of F. Juan de Padranos,
and that it was to him she confessed till she placed herself under the direction of F. Baltasar
Alvarez, the confessor of Dona Guiomar, as it is stated in the next paragraph,--unless the
confessor there mentioned was F. Ferdinand.

6. Dona Guiomar de Ulloa.  See below, ch. xxxii. section 13.

7. If this confessor was F. Baltasar Alvarez, the Saint, F. Bouix observes, passes rapidly
over the history of the year 1557, and the greater part, perhaps, of 1558; for F. Baltasar
was ordained priest only in the latter year.

8. See Relation, i. section 6.

Chapter XXV.

Divine Locutions.  Discussions on That Subject.

1. It will be as well, I think, to explain these locutions of God, and to describe what the
soul feels when it receives them, in order that you, my father, may understand the matter;
for ever since that time of which I am speaking, when our Lord granted me that grace, it has
been an ordinary occurrence until now, as will appear by what I have yet to say. [1]

2. The words are very distinctly formed; but by the bodily ear they are not heard.  They are,
however, much more clearly understood than they would be if they were heard by the ear. It
is impossible not to understand them, whatever resistance we may offer.  When we wish not to
hear anything in this world, we can stop our ears, or give attention to something else: so
that, even if we do hear, at least we can refuse to understand. In this locution of God addressed
to the soul there is no escape, for in spite of ourselves we must listen; and the understanding
must apply itself so thoroughly to the comprehension of that which God wills we should hear,
that it is nothing to the purpose whether we will it or not; for it is His will, Who can do
all things.  We should understand that His will must be done; and He reveals Himself as our
true Lord, having dominion over us. I know this by much experience; for my resistance lasted
nearly two years, [2] because of the great fear I was in: and even now I resist occasionally;
but it is of no use.

3. I should like to explain the delusions which may happen here, though he who has had much
experience will run little or no risk, I think; but the experience must be great.  I should
like to explain also how those locutions which come from the Good Spirit differ from those
which come from an evil spirit; and, further, how they may be but an apprehension of the understanding,--for
that is possible,--or even words which the mind addressed to itself.  I do not know if it be
so but even this very day I thought it possible.  I know by experience in many ways, when these
locutions come from God.  I have been told things two or three years beforehand, which have
all come to pass; and in none of them have I been hitherto deceived.  There are also other
things in which the Spirit of God may be clearly traced, as I shall relate by and by. [3]

4. It seems to me that a person commending a matter to God with great love and earnestness
may think that he hears in some way or other whether his prayer will be granted or not, and
this is quite possible; but he who has heard the divine locution will see clearly enough what
this is, because there is a great difference between the two.  If it be anything which the
understanding has fashioned, however cunningly it may have done so, he sees that it is the
understanding which has arranged that locution, and that it is speaking of itself.  This is
nothing else but a word uttered by one, and listened to by another: in that case, the understanding
will see that it has not been listening only, but also forming the words; and the words it
forms are something indistinct, fantastic, and not clear like the divine locutions. It is in
our power to turn away our attention from these locutions of our own, just as we can be silent
when we are speaking; but, with respect to the former, that cannot be done.

5. There is another test more decisive still.  The words formed by the understanding effect
nothing; but, when our Lord speaks, it is at once word and work; and though the words may not
be meant to stir up our devotion, but are rather words of reproof, they dispose a soul at once,
strengthen it, make it tender, give it light, console and calm it; and if it should be in dryness,
or in trouble and uneasiness, all is removed, as if by the action of a hand, and even better;
for it seems as if our Lord would have the soul understand that He is all-powerful, and that
His words are deeds.

6. It seems to me that there is as much difference between these two locutions as there is
between speaking and listening, neither more nor less; for when I speak, as I have just said,
[4] I go on with my understanding arranging what I am saying; but if I am spoken to by others,
I do nothing else but listen, without any labour.  The human locution is as something which
we cannot well make out, as if we were half asleep; but the divine locution is a voice so clear
that not a syllable of its utterance is lost. It may occur, too, when the understanding and
the soul are so troubled and distracted that they cannot form one sentence correctly; and yet
grand sentences, perfectly arranged, such as the soul in its most recollected state never could
have formed, are uttered, and at the first word, as I said, [5] change it utterly.  Still less
could it have formed them if they are uttered in an ecstasy, when the faculties of the soul
are suspended; for how should the soul then comprehend anything, when it remembers nothing?--yea,
rather, how can it remember them then, when the memory can hardly do anything at all, and the
imagination is, as it were, suspended?

7. But it is to be observed, that if we see visions and hear words it never is as at the time
when the soul is in union in the very rapture itself,--so it seems to me.  At that moment,
as I have shown,--I think it was when I was speaking of the second water, [6]--all the faculties
of the soul are suspended; and, as I think, neither vision, nor understanding, nor hearing,
is possible at that time.  The soul is then wholly in the power of another; and in that instant--a
very brief one, in my opinion--our Lord leaves it free for nothing whatever; but when this
instant is passed, the soul continuing still entranced, then is the time of which I am speaking;
for the faculties, though not completely suspended, are so disposed that they are scarcely
active, being, as it were, absorbed, and incapable of making any reflections.

8. There are so many ways of ascertaining the nature of these locutions, that if a person be
once deceived, he will not be deceived often.  I mean, that a soul accustomed to them, and
on its guard, will most clearly see what they are; for, setting other considerations aside
which prove what I have said, the human locution produces no effect, neither does the soul
accept it,--though it must admit the other, whether we like it or not,--nor does it believe
it; on the contrary, it is known to be a delusion of the understanding, and is therefore put
away as we would put away the ravings of a lunatic.

9. But as to the divine locution, we listen to that as we do to a person of great holiness,
learning, or authority, whom we know to be incapable of uttering a falsehood.  And yet this
is an inadequate illustration; for these locutions proceed occasionally in such great majesty
that, without our recollecting who it is that utters them, they make us tremble if they be
words of reproof, and die of love if words of love.  They are also, as I have said, [7] matters
of which the memory has not the least recollection; and expressions so full are uttered so
rapidly, that much time must have been spent in arranging them, if we formed them ourselves;
and so it seems to me that we cannot possibly be ignorant at the time that we have never formed
them ourselves at all.

10. There is no reason, therefore, why I should dwell longer on this matter.  It is a wonder
to me that any experienced person, unless he deliberately chooses to do so, can fall into delusions.
It has often happened to me, when I had doubts, to distrust what I had heard, and to think
that it was all imagination,--but this I did afterwards: for at the moment that is impossible,--and
at a later time to see the whole fulfilled; for our Lord makes the words dwell in the memory
so that they cannot be forgotten. Now, that which comes forth from our understanding is, as
it were, the first movement of thought, which passes away and is forgotten; but the divine
locution is a work done; and though some of it may be forgotten, and time have lapsed, yet
is not so wholly forgotten that the memory loses all traces of what was once spoken,--unless,
indeed, after very long time, or unless the locution were words of grace or of instruction.
But as to prophetic words, they are never forgotten, in my opinion; at least, I have never
forgotten any,--and yet my memory is weak.

11. I repeat it, unless a soul be so wicked as to pretend that it has these locutions, which
would be a great sin, and say that it hears divine words when it hears nothing of the kind,
it cannot possibly fail to see clearly that itself arranges the words, and utters them to itself.
That seems to me altogether impossible for any soul that has ever known the Spirit of God.
If it has not, it may continue all its life long in this delusion, and imagine that it hears
and understands, though I know not how that can be.  A soul desires to hear these locutions,
or it does not; if it does not, it is distressed because it hears them, and is unwilling to
listen to them, because of a thousand fears which they occasion, and for many other reasons
it has for being quiet in prayer without these interruptions.  How is it that the understanding
has time enough to arrange these locutions? They require time.

