So many strong objections had been arrayed against the Vestiges of Creation, that the author
was called upon to elucidate and reinforce his argument, or abandon the ground he had taken
up. The more candid and equitable of his judges--those who were disposed to try him upon the
merits, and independently test the claims of his inquiry, as in fairness it ought to be, as
strictly a scientific speculation, regardless of any constructive bearings it might have on
current opinions or prejudices--could not arrive at any more favourable conclusion than that
he had failed to establish his hypotheses. Indeed this was the only verdict that could be safely
delivered in. The impugners of the work were in the same helpless predicament as its author,
who had, however, more venturously presumed to unravel unsearchable mysteries, concerning which,
in the existing state of science, men can only conjecture, wonder, and adore, utterly unable
to affirm or deny aught respecting them. What, for instance, with the remotest semblance of
certainty, can be predicated of the stellar orbs? Is it not idle almost to speculate on the
impenetrable secret of their origin when their very existence is undefinable--when their end,
their glittering discs, and all but immeasurable distances are wholly unapproachable? Nor hardly
less beyond our grasp is the commencement of organic existences. We do pride ourselves on recent
advances to the sources of entity; we tear up the dead, we torture the living, and sedulously
chronicle every beat of the heart and vibration of the brain to slake an insatiable curiosity,
yet how unsatisfactory our reach towards the hidden springs of life--how limited our attainments,
when the creation of a single blade of grass, the humblest worm, a poor beetle, or gadfly,
would baffle the utmost structural skill of the greatest philosopher! Into the fathomless depths
of our own globe we have also essayed to penetrate. Poor beings! of three score and ten, whose
utmost historical span extends only to some thousands of years, have sought to trammel up the
terrene vicissitudes of millions of ages anterior to their own existence! Does not this savour
of a vain research, or of a laudable thirst for knowledge?

Over all these dark and solemn inscrutabilities, however, the Vestiges undertook to throw a
glare of light, to reveal their beginning, progression, order, relations, and law of development.
Although daring in aim, the attempt was not to be wholly deprecated. While religious freedom
had been secured, philosophy had become timid, official, and timeserving; retentive as FONTENELLE
of the truths within its grasp, and fearful to give utterance to aught that might disturb the
stillness of the temple, the lecture-room, or fashionable auditory. Modern teachers had been
used so long to the Baconian go-cart, that they had become as apprehensive of losing the inductive
clue as the PALINURUSES of old of the sight of the directing shore. But the time had arrived
when it seemed expedient to relax the strictness of the investigative rule, and afford scope
for a more systematic, if not speculative research. Science had made great acquisitions, and
it seemed desirable, if only for experiment sake, to see what kind of FRANKENSTEIN would result
from the architectural union of her scattered limbs. This formed the scope of the Vestiges
of Creation; novelties were not propounded, only a portentous skeleton raised from the truths
physical astronomy, geology, chemistry, physiology, and natural history had established. Does
the author recoil from his work? No; these Explanations attest that he is steadfast in the
worship of the idol of his brain.