A.D. 93. Afflicting to us his family proved the end of his life, sorrowful to his friends;
and even to foreigners and such as knew him not, matter of trouble and condolence. The commonalty
likewise, and such people as were void of employment, [Footnote: Or it may be thus translated:
"The body of the people though chiefly intent upon such affairs as concerned not the State."--GORDON.
Burnouf is better: "Ce peuple, qu'occupent d'autres interets."] were not only frequent in their
visits to his house, but in all public places, in all particular companies made him the subject
of their conversation. Nor, when his death was divulged, was there a soul found who either
rejoiced at it, or presently forgot it. What heightened the public commiseration and concern,
was a prevailing rumour that he was despatched by poison. That there was any proof of this,
I dare not aver. Yet it is true, that during the whole course of his illness, Domitian caused
frequent visits to be made him, indeed much more frequent than Princes are wont to make, both
by his favourite freedmen and most trusty physicians; whether through real concern for his
health, or solicitude to learn the probability of his death. It is well known that on the day
in which he expired, continual accounts were, by messengers purposely placed, every instant
transmitted to the Emperor, how fast his end was approaching; and no one believed, that he
would thus quicken such tidings, had he been to feel any sorrow from hearing them. In his face
however and even in his spirit, he affected to show some guise of grief; for, he was now secure
against the object of his hate, and could more easily dissemble his present joy, than lately
his fear. It was abundantly notorious how much it rejoiced him, upon reading the last will
of Agricola, to find himself left joint heir with his excellent wife and tender daughter. This
he took to have been done out of judgment and choice, and in pure honour to himself. So blind
and corrupt was his mind rendered by continual flattery, as not to know, that to no Prince
but a bad one will any good father bequeath his fortune.

Agricola was born on the 13th of June, during the third Consulship of the Emperor Caligula.
He died on the 24th of August, during the Consulship of Collega and Priscus, in the fifty-sixth
year of his age. If posterity be desirous to know his make and stature; in his person he was
rather genteel and regular than tall. [Footnote: Decentior quam sublimior fuit.] In his aspect
there was nothing terrible. His looks were extremely graceful and pleasing. A good man you
would have readily believed him, and been glad to have found that he was a great man. Nay,
though he was snatched away whilst his age was yet in full vigour, if however his life be measured
by his glory, he attained to a mighty length of days. For, every true felicity and acquisition,
namely, all such as arise from virtue, he had already enjoyed to the full. As he had been likewise
dignified with the Consular and triumphal honours, what more could fortune add to his lustre
and renown? After enormous wealth he sought not: an honourable share he possessed. As behind
him he left surviving his daughter and his wife, he may be even accounted happy; since by dying
whilst his credit was nowise impaired, his fame in its full splendour, his relations and friends
yet in a state of security, he escaped the evils to come. For, as before us he was wont to
express his wishes, that he might survive to see this truly blessed Age, and Trajan swaying
the sovereignty, wishes which he uttered with presages as of what would surely ensue; so it
was a wondrous consolation attending the quickness of his death, that thence he evaded the
misery of the latter times, when Domitian, who had ceased to exert his tyranny by starts only
and intermissions, was come now to rend the Commonwealth by cruelties without all respite,
and to overthrow it as it were by one great and deadly stroke.

For, Agricola saw not the Court of the Senate besieged, nor the Senate enclosed by armed men,
nor the butchery of so many men of Consular dignity, nor the flight and exile of so many ladies
of the prime nobility, all effected in one continued havoc. Till then Carus Metius, the accuser,
was only considerable for having been victorious in one bloody process; till then the cruel
motions of Messallinus rang only within the palace at Alba; [Footnote: A country palace of
Domitian.] and in those days Massa Bebius (afterwards so exercised in arraigning the innocent)
was himself arraigned as a criminal. Presently after we, with our own hands, dragged Helvidius
to prison and execution: we beheld the melancholy doom of Mauricus and Rusticus: we found ourselves
besprinkled with the innocent blood of Senecio. Even Nero withheld his eyes from scenes of
cruelty, he indeed ordered murders to be perpetrated, but saw not the perpetration. The principal
part of our miseries under Domitian, was to be obliged to see him and be seen by him, at a
time when all our sighs and sorrows were watched and marked down for condemnation; when that
cruel countenance of his, always covered with a settled red, whence he hardened himself against
all shame and blushing, served him to mark and recount all the pale horrors at once possessing
so many men. Thou therefore, Agricola, art happy, not only as thy life was glorious, but as
thy death was seasonable. According to the account of such who heard thy last words, thou didst
accept thy fate cheerfully and with firmness, as if thou thus didst thy part to show the Emperor
to be guiltless. But to myself and thy daughter, besides the anguish of having our father snatched
from us, it proves a fresh accession of sorrow, that we had not an opportunity to attend thee
in thy sickness, to solace thy sinking spirits, to please ourselves with seeing thee, please
ourselves with embracing thee. Doubtless, we should have greedily received thy instructions
and sayings, and engraved them for ever upon our hearts. This is our woe, this a wound to our
spirit, that by the lot of long absence from thee thou wast already lost to us for four years
before thy death. There is no question, excellent father, but that with whatever thy condition
required thou wast honourably supplied, as thou wast attended by thy wife, one so full of tenderness
for her husband: yet fewer tears accompanied thy course, and during thy last moments somewhat
was wanting to satisfy thine eyes.

