She doggedly went on with her work; the contracts were made; she was forced to.  As the work
neared completion, her faith in the enterprise grew.  She studied by the hour everything she
could find pertaining to the business.  When the machinery began to arrive, George frequently
spoke about having timber ready to begin work on, but he never really believed the thing which
did happen, would happen, until the first load of logs slowly crossed the bridge and began
unloading in the yards.  A few questions elicited from the driver the reply that he had sold
the timber to young Adam Bates of Bates Corners, who was out buying right and left and paying
cash on condition the seller did his own delivering. George saw the scheme, and that it was
good.  Also the logs were good, while the price was less than he hoped to pay for such timber.
His soul was filled with bitterness.  The mill was his scheme. He had planned it all.  Those
thieving Bates had stolen his plan, and his location, and his home, and practically separated
him from his wife and children.  It was his mill, and all he was getting from it was to work
with all his might, and not a decent word from morning until night.  That day instead of working
as before, he sat in the shade most of the time, and that night instead of going to bed he
went down town.

When the mill was almost finished Kate employed two men who lived in Walden, but had been working
in the Hartley mills for years. They were honest men of much experience.  Kate made the better
of them foreman, and consulted with him in every step of completing the mill, and setting up
the machinery.  She watched everything with sharp eyes, often making suggestions that were
useful about the placing of different parts as a woman would arrange them. Some of these the
men laughed at, some they were more than glad to accept.  When the engine was set up, the big
saw in place, George went to Kate.

"See here!" he said roughly.  "I know I was wrong about the sluice-gate.  I was a fool to shut
it with the water that high, but I've learned my lesson; I'll never touch it again; I've worked
like a dog for weeks to pay for it; now where do I come in? What's my job, how much is my share
of the money, and when do I get it?"

"The trouble with you, George, is that you have to learn a new lesson about every thing you
attempt.  You can't carry a lesson about one thing in your mind, and apply it to the next thing
that comes up.  I know you have worked, and I know why.  It is fair that you should have something,
but I can't say what, just now. Having to rebuild the dam, and with a number of incidentals
that have come up, in spite of the best figuring I could do, I have been forced to use my money
saved for rebuilding the house; and even with that, I am coming out a hundred or two short.
I'm strapped; and until money begins to come in I have none myself. The first must go toward
paying the men's wages, the next for timber.  If Jim Milton can find work for you, go to work
at the mill, and when we get started I'll pay you what is fair and just, you may depend on
that.  If he hasn't work for you, you'll have to find a job at something else."

"Do you mean that?" he asked wonderingly.

"I mean it," said Kate.

"After stealing my plan, and getting my land for nothing, you'd throw me out entirely?" he
demanded.

"You entreated me to put all I had into your plan, you told me repeatedly the ravine was worth
nothing, you were not even keeping up the taxes on it until I came and urged you to, the dam
is used merely for water, the engine furnishes the real power, and if you are thrown out, you
have thrown yourself out.  You have had every chance."

"You are going to keep your nephew on the buying job?" he asked

"I am," said Kate.  "You can have no job that will give you a chance to involve me financially."

"Then give me Milton's place.  It's so easy a baby could do it, and the wages you have promised
him are scandalous," said George.

Kate laughed.  "Oh, George," she said, "you can't mean that!  Of all your hare-brained ideas,
that you could operate that saw, is the wildest.  Oh course you could start the engine, and
set the saw running--I could myself; but to regulate its speed, to control it with judgment,
you could no more do it than Polly.  As for wages, Milton is working for less than he got in
Hartley, because he can be at home, and save his hack fare, as you know."

George went over to Jim Milton, and after doing all he could see to do and ordering Milton
to do several things he thought might be done, he said casually:  "Of course I am BOSS around
this shack, but this is new to me.  You fellows will have to tell me what to do until I get
my bearings.  As soon as we get to running, I'll be yard-master, and manage the selling and
shipping.  I'm good at figures, and that would be the best place for me."

"You'll have to settle with Mrs. Holt about that," said Jim Milton.

"Of course," said George.  "Isn't she a wonder?  With my help, we'll soon wipe the Hartley
mills off the map, and be selling till Grand Rapids will get her eye peeled.  With you to run
the machinery, me to manage the sales, and her to keep the books, we got a combination to beat
the world."

"In the meantime," said Jim Milton dryly, "you might take that scoop shovel and clean the shavings
and blocks off this floor. Leave me some before the engine to start the first fire, and shovel
the rest into that bin there where it's handy.  It isn't safe to start with so much loose,
dry stuff lying around."

George went to work with the scoop shovel, but he watched every movement Jim Milton made about
the engine and machinery.  Often he dropped the shovel and stood studying things out for himself,
and asking questions.  Not being sure of his position, Jim Milton answered him patiently, and
showed him all he wanted to know; but he constantly cautioned him not to touch anything, or
try to start the machinery himself, as he might lose control of the gauge and break the saw,
or let the power run away with him.  George scoffed at the idea of danger and laughed at the
simplicity of the engine and machinery.  There was little for him to do.  He hated to be seen
cleaning up the debris; men who stopped in passing kept telling what a fine fellow young Bates
was, what good timber he was sending in.  Several of them told George frankly they thought
that was to be his job.  He was so ashamed of that, he began instant improvisation.

"That was the way we first planned things," he said boastfully, "but when it came to working
out our plans, we found I would be needed here till I learned the business, and then I'm going
on the road.  I am going to be the salesman.  To travel, dress well, eat well, flirt with the
pretty girls, and take big lumber orders will just about suit little old Georgie."

"Wonder you remembered to put the orders in at all," said Jim Milton dryly.

George glared at him.  "Well, just remember whom you take orders from," he said, pompously.

"I take them from Mrs. Holt, and nobody else," said Milton, with equal assurance.  "And I've
yet to hear her say the first word about this wonderful travelling proposition.  She thinks
she will do well to fill home orders and ship to a couple of factories she already has contracts
with.  Sure you didn't dream that travelling proposition, George?"

At that instant George wished he could slay Jim Milton.  All day he brooded and grew sullen
and ugly.  By noon he quit working and went down town.  By suppertime he went home to prove
to his wife that he was all right.  She happened to be coming across from the mill, where she
had helped Milton lay the first fire under the boiler ready to touch off, and had seen the
first log on the set carriage.  It had been agreed that she was to come over at opening time
in the morning and start the machinery.  She was a proud and eager woman when she crossed the
bridge and started down the street toward the gate.  From the opposite direction came George,
so unsteady that he was running into tree boxes, then lifting his hat and apologizing to them
for his awkwardness.  Kate saw at a glance that he might fall any instant.  Her only thought
was to help him from the street, to where children would not see him.

She went to him and taking his arm started down the walk with him. He took off his hat to her
also, and walked with wavering dignity, setting his steps as if his legs were not long enough
to reach the walk, so that each step ended with a decided thump.  Kate could see the neighbours
watching at their windows, and her own children playing on the roof of the woodshed.  When
the children saw their parents, they both stopped playing to stare at them.  Then suddenly,
shrill and high, arose Adam's childish voice:

   "Father came home the other night,
    Tried to blow out the 'lectric light,
    Blew and blew with all his might,
    And the blow almost killed Mother."

Polly joined him, and they sang and shrilled, and shrieked it; they jumped up and down and
laughed and repeated it again and again.  Kate guided George to his room and gave him a shove
that landed him on his bed.  Then to hush the children she called them to supper.  They stopped
suddenly, as soon as they entered the kitchen door, and sat, sorry and ashamed while she went
around, her face white, her lips closed, preparing their food.  George was asleep.  The children
ate alone, as she could take no food.  Later she cleaned the kitchen, put the children to bed,
and sat on the front porch looking at the mill, wondering, hoping, planning, praying unconsciously.
When she went to bed at ten o'clock George was still asleep.

He awakened shortly after, burning with heat and thirst.  He arose and slipped to the back
porch for a drink.  Water was such an aggravation, he crossed the yard, went out the back gate,
and down the alley.  When he came back up the street, he was pompously, maliciously, dangerously
drunk.  Either less or more would have been better.  When he came in sight of the mill, standing
new and shining in the moonlight, he was a lord of creation, ready to work creation to his
will.  He would go over and see if things were all right.  But he did not cross the bridge,
he went down the side street, and entered the yard at the back.  The doors were closed and
locked, but there was as yet no latch on the sliding windows above the work bench.  He could
push them open from the ground. He leaned a board against the side of the mill, set his foot
on it, and pulled himself up, so that he could climb on the bench.

That much achieved, he looked around him.  After a time his eyes grew accustomed to the darkness,
so that he could see his way plainly. Muddled half-thoughts began to filter through his brain.
He remembered he was abused.  He was out of it.  He remembered that he was not the buyer for
the mill.  He remembered how the men had laughed when he had said that he was to be the salesman.
He remembered that Milton had said that he was not to touch the machinery.  He at once slid
from the bench and went to the boiler. He opened the door of the fire-box and saw the kindling
laid ready to light, to get up steam.  He looked at the big log on the set carriage.  They
had planned to start with a splurge in the morning.  Kate was to open the throttle that started
the machinery.  He decided to show them that they were not so smart. He would give them a good
surprise by sawing the log.  That would be a joke on them to brag about the remainder of his
life.  He took matches from his pocket and started the fire.  It seemed to his fevered imagination
that it burned far too slowly.  He shoved in more kindling, shavings, ends left from siding.
This smothered his fire, so he made trip after trip to the tinder box, piling in armloads of
dry, inflammable stuff.

Then suddenly the flames leaped up.  He slammed shut the door and started toward the saw. 
He could not make it work.  He jammed and pulled everything he could reach.  Soon he realized
the heat was becoming intense, and turned to the boiler to see that the fire-box was red hot
almost all over, white hot in places.

"My God!" he muttered.  "Too hot!  Got to cool that down."

Then he saw the tank and the dangling hose, and remembered that he had not filled the boiler.
Taking down the hose, he opened the watercock, stuck in the nozzle, and turned on the water
full force.  Windows were broken across the street.  Parts of the fire-box, boiler, and fire
flew everywhere.  The walls blew out, the roof lifted and came down, the fire raged among the
new, dry timbers of the mill.

When her windows blew in, Kate was thrown from her bed to the floor. She lay stunned a second,
then dragged herself up to look across the street.  There was nothing where the low white expanse
of roof had spread an hour before, while a red glare was creeping everywhere over the ground.
She ran to George's room and found it empty.  She ran to the kitchen, calling him, and found
the back door standing open.  She rushed back to her room and began trying to put on her dress
over her nightrobe.  She could not control her shaking fingers, while at each step she cut
her feet on broken glass.  She reached the front door as the children came screaming with fright.
In turning to warn them about the glass, she stumbled on the top step, pitched forward headlong,
then lay still.  The neighbours carried her back to her bed, called the doctor, and then saved
all the logs in the yard they could.  The following day, when the fire had burned itself out,
the undertaker hunted assiduously, but nothing could be found to justify a funeral.

CHAPTER XX

"FOR A GOOD GIRL"

FOR a week, Kate lay so dazed she did not care whether she lived or died; then she slowly crept
back to life, realizing that whether she cared or not, she must live.  She was too young, too
strong, to quit because she was soul sick; she had to go on.  She had life to face for herself
and her children.  She wondered dully about her people, but as none of the neighbours who had
taken care of her said anything concerning them, she realized that they had not been there.
At first she was almost glad.  They were forthright people.  They would have had something
to say; they would have said it tersely and to the point.

Adam, 3d, had wound up her affairs speedily by selling the logs he had bought for her to the
Hartley mills, paying what she owed, and depositing the remainder in the Hartley Bank to her
credit; but that remainder was less than one hundred dollars.  That winter was a long, dreadful
nightmare to Kate.  Had it not been for Aunt Ollie, they would have been hungry some of the
time; they were cold most of it.  For weeks Kate thought of sending for her mother, or going
to her; then as not even a line came from any of her family, she realized that they resented
her losing that much Bates money so bitterly that they wished to have nothing to do with her.
Often she sat for hours staring straight before her, trying to straighten out the tangle she
had made of her life.  As if she had not suffered enough in the reality of living, she now
lived over in day and night dreams, hour by hour, her time with George Holt, and gained nothing
thereby.

All winter Kate brooded, barely managing to keep alive, and the children in school.  As spring
opened, she shook herself, arose, and went to work.  It was not planned, systematic, effective,
Bates work. Piecemeal she did anything she saw needed the doing. The children helped to make
garden and clean the yard.  Then all of them went out to Aunt Ollie's and made a contract to
plant and raise potatoes and vegetables on shares.  They passed a neglected garden on the way,
and learning that the woman of the house was ill, Kate stopped and offered to tend it for enough
cords of windfall wood to pay her a fair price, this to be delivered in mid-summer.

With food and fire assured, Kate ripped up some of George's clothing, washed, pressed, turned,
and made Adam warm clothes for school.  She even achieved a dress for Polly by making a front
and back from a pair of her father's trouser legs, and setting in side pieces, a yoke and sleeves
from one of her old skirts.  George's underclothing she cut down for both of the children;
then drew another check for taxes and second-hand books.  While she was in Hartley in the fall
paying taxes, she stopped at a dry goods store for thread, and heard a customer asking for
knitted mittens, which were not in stock.  After he had gone, she arranged with the merchant
for a supply of yarn which she carried home and began to knit into mittens such as had been
called for.  She used every minute of leisure during the day, she worked hours into the night,
and soon small sums began coming her way. When she had a supply of teamster's heavy mittens,
she began on fancy coloured ones for babies and children, sometimes crocheting, sometimes using
needles. Soon she started both children on the rougher work with her.  They were glad to help
for they had a lively remembrance of one winter of cold and hunger, with no Christmas.  That
there were many things she might have done that would have made more money with less exertion
Kate never seemed to realize.  She did the obvious thing.  Her brain power seemed to be on
a level with that of Adam and Polly.

