In speaking of Timanthes as the competitor with Parrhasius, as one who brought into the art
more play of the mind and passions, the lecturer takes occasion to discuss the often discussed
and disputed propriety of Timanthes, in covering the head of Agamemnon in his picture of the
sacrifice of Iphigenia. He thinks it the more incumbent on him so to do, as the "late president"
had passed a censure upon Timanthes. Sir Joshua expressed his doubt only, not his censure absolutely,
upon the delivery of the prize at the Academy for the best picture painted from this subject.
He certainly dissents from bestowing the praise, upon the supposition of the intention being
the avoiding a difficulty. And as to this point, the well-known authorities of Cicero, Quintilian,
Valerius Maximus, and Pliny, seem to agree. And if, as the lecturer observes in a note, the
painter is made to waste expression on inferior actors at the expense of a principal one, he
is an improvident spendthrift, not a wise economist. The pertness of Falconet is unworthy grave
criticism and the subject, though it is quoted by Sir Joshua Reynolds. He assumes that Agamemnon
is the principal figure. Undoubtedly Mr Fuseli is right--Iphigenia is the principal figure;
and it may be fairly admitted, that the overpowering expression of the grief of the father
would have divided the subject. It might be more properly a separate picture. Art is limited;
nothing should detract from the principal figure, the principal action--passion. Our sympathy
is not called for on behalf of the father here: the grief of the others in the picture is the
grief in perfect sympathy with Iphigenia; the father would have been absorbed in his own grief,
and his grief would have been an unsympathetic grief towards Iphigenia. It was his own case
that he felt; and it does appear to us an aggravation of the suffering of Iphigenia, that,
at the moment of her sacrifice, she saw indeed her father's person, but was never more--and
knew she was never more--to behold his face again. This circumstance alone would justify Timanthes,
but other concurrent reasons may be given. It was no want of power to express the father's
grief, for it is in the province of art to express every such delineation; but there is a point
of grief that is ill expressed by the countenance at all; and there is a natural action in
such cases for the sufferer himself to hide his face, as if conscious that it was not in agreement
with his feelings. Such grief is astounding: we look for the expression of it, and find it
not: it is better than receive this shock to hide the face. We do it naturally; so that here
the art of the painter, that required that his picture should be a whole, and centre in Iphigenia,
was mainly assisted by the proper adoption of this natural action of Agamemnon. Mr Fuseli,
whose criticism is always acute, and generally just and true, has well discussed the subject,
and properly commented upon the flippancy of Falconet. After showing the many ways in which
the painter might have expressed the parent's grief, and that none of them would be decere,
pro dignitate, digne, he adds--'But Timanthes had too true a sense of nature to expose a father's
feelings, or to tear a passion to rags; nor had the Greeks yet learned of Rome to steel the
face. If he made Agamemnon bear his calamity as a man, he made him also feel it as a man. It
became the leader of Greece to sanction the ceremony with his presence: it did not become the
father to see his daughter beneath the dagger's point: the same nature that threw a real mantle
over the face of Timoleon, when he assisted at the punishment of his brother, taught Timanthes
to throw an imaginary one over the face of Agamemnon; neither height nor depth, propriety of
expression was his aim.' It is a question whether Timanthes took the idea from the text of
Euripides, or whether it is his invention, and was borrowed by the dramatist. The picture must
have presented a contrast to that of his rival Parrhasius, which exhibited the fury of Ajax.

Whether the invention was or was not the merit of Euripides, certainly this is not the only
instance wherein he has turned it to dramatic advantage. No dramatist was so distinct a painter
as Euripides; his mind was ever upon picture. He makes Hecuba, in the dialogue with Agamemnon,
say, "Pity me, and, standing apart as would a painter, look at me, and see what evils I have,"

     [Greek: Oichteiron hêmas, os grapheus t apostatheis,
     Ida me chanathrêson, oi echô chacha.]

And this Hecuba, when Talthybius comes to require her presence for the burial of Polyxena,
is found lying on the ground, her face covered with her robe:--

     [Greek: Autê pelas sou, nôt echous epi chthoni,
     Talthubie, keitai, sugchechleismenê peplois.]

And in the same play, Polyxena bids Ulysses to cover her head with a robe, as he leads her
away, that she might not see her mother's grief.

     [Greek: Komiz, Odysseu, m'amphitheis peplois chara.]

But in the instance in question, in the Iphigenia, there is one circumstance that seems to
have been overlooked by the critics, which makes the action of Agamemnon the more expressive,
and gives it a peculiar force: the dramatist takes care to exhibit the more than common parental
and filial love; when asked by Clytemnestra what would be her last, her dying request, it is
instantly, on her father's account, to avert every feeling of wrath against him:--

     [Greek: Patera ge ton emon mê stugei, posin te son.]

