Once the object of general praise, from its loftiness and beauty, and till now the subject
of censure, even among Protestants, from that inscription of which the Papists always complained,
was the offspring of this period, and realized one of those decorations which Wren had lavished
upon his air-drawn Babylon. This lofty column was ordered by the Commons, in commemoration
of the extinction of the great fire and the rebuilding of the city: it stands on the site of
the old church of St. Margaret, and within a hundred feet of the spot where the conflagration
began. It is of the Doric order, and rises from the pavement to the height of two hundred and
two feet, containing within its shaft a spiral stair of black marble of three hundred and forty-five
steps. The various notions of the architect concerning a suitable termination, are worth relating:--"I
cannot," said he, "but commend a large statue as carrying much dignity with it, and that which
would be more valuable in the eyes of foreigners and strangers. It hath been proposed to cast
such a one in brass of twelve feet high for a thousand pounds. I hope we may find those who
will cast a figure for that money of fifteen feet high, which will suit the greatness of the
pillar, and is, as I take it, the largest at this day extant. And this would undoubtedly be
the noblest finishing that can be found answerable to so goodly a work in all men's judgments."
The King preferred a large ball of metal gilt. A phoenix was introduced in the wooden model
of the pillar, but afterwards rejected by the architect himself, "because it would be costly,
not easily understood at that height, and worse understood at a distance; and lastly, dangerous
by reason of the sail the spread wings would carry in the wind." A statue of Charles, fifteen
feet high, on a pedestal of two hundred, would have looked small and mean; the King resisted
the compliment. This work, begun in 1671, was not completed till 1677; stone was scarce, and
the restoration of London and its Cathedral swallowed up the produce of the quarries. "It was
at first used," says Elmes, "by the members of the Royal Society, for astronomical experiments,
but was abandoned on account of its vibrations being too great for the nicety required in their
observations. This occasioned a report that it was unsafe; but its scientific construction
may bid defiance to the attacks of all but earthquakes for centuries."

Life of Wren.--Family Library.

    [4] The original inscription, ascribing to the Roman Catholics the
        fire which consumed the city, obliterated during the reign of
        James II. and restored with much pomp on the coming of King
        William, is now ordered, I hear, to be erased by the Common
        Council. Fiction is truth and truth is fiction as party prevails.

       *       *       *       *       *

G. MORLAND.

H. Morland, wine merchant, brother of the painter, says, "that his brother died while his servant
was holding a glass of gin (his favourite liquor) over his shoulder. And he was so prodigal
at times that he had not enough to buy ultra-marine with, although a few hours before he had
invited a great number of his associates to a general debauch."

GEO. ST. CLAIR.

       *       *       *       *       *

COWLEY'S HOUSE, AT CHERTSEY.

Cowley retired to these premises at Chertsey, in Surrey, a few years before his death, which
took place here in 1667, in his 49th year. The premises are called the Porch House, and were
for many years occupied by the late Richard Clark, Esq., Chamberlain of London, who died a
short time since. Mr. Clark, in honour of the Poet, took much pains to preserve the premises
in their original state, kept an original portrait of Cowley, and had affixed a tablet in front,
containing Cowley's Latin Epitaph on himself. In the year 1793, it was supposed that the ruinous
state of the house rendered it impossible to support the building, but it was found practicable
to preserve the greater part of it, to which some rooms have been added. Mr. Clark also placed
a tablet in front of the building where the porch stood, with the following inscription:--"The
Porch of this House, which projected ten feet into the highway, was, in the year 1792, removed
for the safety and accommodation of the public.

  "Here the last accents flowed from Cowley's tongue."

We received the substance of this information from the venerable Mr. Clark himself, in the
year 1822, about which time there appeared, in the Monthly Magazine, a view of the original
premises, from a drawing by the late Mr. Samuel Ireland. The above view was taken by a Correspondent,
in the summer of 1828, and represents the original portion of the mansion. Cowley's study is
here pointed out, being a closet in the back part of the house, towards the garden.

How delightfully must COWLEY have passed his latter days in the rural seclusion of Chertsey!

Then, too, the delightful chapter Of Gardens which he addressed to the virtuous John Evelyn.

We quote these few illustrations of Cowley's character from Mr. Felton's very interesting volume
"on the Portraits of English Authors on Gardening."--By the way, at page 100, in a Note, Mr.
Felton makes a flattering reference to one of our earliest works, which we are happy to learn
has not escaped his observation.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF PAUL "PRY."

"Why, Lord!

Of this very point I have availed myself. Let me add that Paul Pry was never intended as the
representative of any one individual, but a class. Like the melancholy of Jaques, he is "compounded
of many Simples;" and I could mention five or six who were unconscious contributors to the
character.--That it should have been so often, though erroneously, supposed to have been drawn
after some particular person, is, perhaps, complimentary to the general truth of the delineation.

With respect to the play, generally, I may say that it is original: it is original in structure,
plot, character, and dialogue--such as they are. The only imitation I am aware of is to be
found in part of the business in which Mrs. Subtle is engaged: whilst writing those scenes
I had strongly in my recollection Le Vieux Celibataire. But even the little I have adopted
is considerably altered and modified by the necessity of adapting it to the exigencies of a
different plot.--New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAUREEN.

  The cottage is here as of old I remember,
    The pathway is worn as it always hath been;
  On the turf-piled hearth there still lives a bright ember;--
    But where is Maureen?

  The same pleasant prospect still lieth before me,
    The river--the mountain--the valley of green,
  And Heaven itself (a bright blessing!) is o'er me;--
    But where is Maureen?

  Lost! Lost!--Like a dream that hath come and departed,
    (Ah, why are the loved and the lost ever seen!)
  She has fallen--hath flown, with a lover false-hearted;--
    So, mourn for Maureen.

  And she who so loved her is slain--(the poor mother!)
    Struck dead in a day by a shadow unseen,
  And the home we once loved is the home of another,
    And lost is Maureen.

  Sweet Shannon, a moment by thee let me ponder,
    A moment look back at the things that have been,
  Then, away to the world where the ruin'd ones wander,
    To seek for Maureen.

  Pale peasant--perhaps, 'neath the frown of high Heaven,
    She roams the dark deserts of sorrow unseen,
  Unpitied--unknown; but I--I shall know even
    The ghost of Maureen.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BURIAL IN THE DESERT.

BY MRS HEMANS.

  How weeps yon gallant Band
  O'er him their valour could not save!
  For the bayonet is red with gore,
  And he, the beautiful and brave,
  Now sleeps in Egypt's sand.--WILSON.

  In the shadow of the Pyramid
    Our brother's grave we made,
  When the battle-day was done,
  And the Desert's parting sun
    A field of death survey'd.

  The blood-red sky above us
    Was darkening into night,
  And the Arab watching silently
    Our sad and hurried rite.
  It is well with those who bear their fame
    Unsullied to the grave!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SNOW-WHITE VIRGIN.

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILIAR LAW.

We cordially add our note of commendation to those already bestowed on a little Manual, entitled
"Plain Advice to Landlords and Tenants, Lodging-house Keepers, and Lodgers; with a comprehensive
Summary of the Law of Distress," &c. It is likewise pleasant to see "third edition" in its
title-page. Accompanying we have "A Familiar Summary of the Laws respecting Masters and Servants,"
&c.

On looking into these little books we find much of the plain sense of law. There is no mystification
by technicalities, but all the information is practical, all ready to hand, we mean mouth;
so that, as Mrs. Fixture says in the farce of A Roland for an Oliver--"If there be such a thing
as la' in the land," you may "ha' it." Joking apart, they are sensible books, and of good authority.

Suppose we throw ourselves back in our chair, and for a minute or two think of the good which
the spread of common sense by such means as the above must produce among men: how much bile
and bickering they may keep down, which in nine law-suits out of ten arise from want of "a
proper understanding." The reader may say that in recommending those fire-and-water folks,
landlords and tenants, and masters and servants, and those half-agreeable persons, lodging-house
keepers and lodgers--to purchase such books, we advise every man to act with an attorney at
his elbow. We can but reply with Swift:--

  "The only fault is with mankind."

       *       *       *       *       *

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

A very laudable work appears quarterly, entitled "The Voice of Humanity: for the communication
and discussion of all subjects relative to the conduct of man towards the inferior animal creation."
The number (3) before us, contains a paper on the Abolition of Slaughter-houses, and the substitution
of Abattoirs, a point to which we adverted and illustrated in vol. xi. of the Mirror. The Amended
Act to prevent the cruel and improper treatment of cattle, follows; and among the other articles
is a Table of the Prosecutions of the Society against Cruelty to Animals, from November 1830,
to January 1831, drawn up by our occasional correspondent, the benevolent Mr. Lewis Gompertz.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUSE IN LIVERY.

We have been somewhat amused with the piquancy and humour of the following introduction of
a Notice of a volume of Poems, "by John Jones, an old servant," which has just appeared under
the editorship of Mr. Southey and the Quarterly Review:--

Shakspeare has said, "What's in a name?--a rose, by any other name, would smell as sweet!"
But here we have a convincing proof of the necessity of attending strictly to names, as the
commonest regard to the fitting attributes of a "John Jones," would have kept the victim of
such an appellation quite clear of poetry. It is next to impossible that a John Jones should
be a poet;--and some kind friend should have broken the truth to the butler, before he endeavoured
to share unpolished glory with uneducated bards.

An inspired serving-man, in a livery of industry, turned up with morality, is a species of
bard which we never expected to find in the service of the Muses, or bringing a written character
from his last place, and vaunting of his readiness and ability to write epics and wait at table.
The work we should have looked to meet with, emanating from the butler's pantry, was a miscellaneous
volume full of religious scraps, essays on dress, receipts for boot-tops, wise cooking cogitations,
remedies for bugs, cures for ropy beer, hints for blacking, ingredients for punch, thoughts
on tapping ale, early rising and killing fleas. The mischief of the wide dissemination of education
is now becoming apparent, for, poor as authors confessedly are, they have generally been gentlemen,
even in rags--learned men of some degree, though with exposed elbows--folk only a little lower
than the angels! But never until the schoolmaster was so abundantly abroad, distributing his
spelling-soup to the poor, did we ever hear of a butler writing poetry, and committing it to
the press. The order of things is becoming reversed. The garret is beginning to lose its literary
celebrity, and the kitchen is taking the matter up. A floor near the sky in Grub-street is
no pen-spot now; but down fifty fathoms deep in Portland Place, or Portman Square, or some
far-retired old country house, you shall find the author: his red cuffs turned up over his
light blue jacket sleeves, the pen in his hand, and his inspired eye looking out upon the area.
There doth he correct the brain-work which is to carry his name up above the earth, and keep
it there, bright as cleaned plate. In the housekeeper's room, inspiration gives a double knock
at his heart. An author in a pantry certainly writes under great disadvantages, for it cannot
be said that he is there writing for his bread. In such a place, the loaf is in his eye--the
larder is so near, he may almost dip his pen into it by mistake--and positive beef gleams through
the veil of the safe, softened to his eye, yet still solider than beef of the imagination.
In truth, a man has much to overcome in preparing food for the mind, in the very thick of food
for the body;--for a good authority (no less a man than Mr. Bayes) has strenuously advised
that the belly should be empty when the brain is to be unloaded. How can a gentleman's gentleman,
with a corpus that banishes his backbone nearly four feet from the table at which he sits,
betake himself to his cogitations over a tankard of October, and expect to beat your true thin
garret-haunting devil, with an inside like a pea-shooter, who can scarcely be said to be one
remove from the ethereal, and who writes from that best of inspirations--an empty pantry? We
shall presently see whether an author from below is better than one from above--whether it
will be more eligible that the Muses should have several more stories to descend, when their
nine ladyships are invoked so to do--and that the pen should be taken out of the scraggy hand
of a gentleman in rags, and be placed in the plump gripe of a gentleman in tags.

Before we proceed to give an account of the book before us, we must yet take leave to indulge
in a few reflections on the effect of this mental explosion in the noddles of John and James
and Richard, upon reviewers, publishers, and the world in general. This change of lodging in
the author will turn many things topsy-turvy, and conjure the spirit out of much long-established
facetiousness. Pictures of poets in garrets will soon not be understood; bathos will be at
a premium! the bard will be known, not by the brownness of his beaver, but by the gold band
that encircles it. The historian shall go about in black plush breeches; and the great inspired
writers of the age "have a livery more guarded than their fellows." Authors shall soon be,
indeed, even more easily known by their dress. How often, too, shall we see Mr. Murray or Mr.
Colburn descending "with the nine" to the hireling scribe, who is correcting the press and
locking up the tea-spoons, against his coming; or they may have occasionally to wait below,
while their authors are waiting above. Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown and Green (almost a batch
of he-muses in themselves), will get a new cookery-book, well done, from a genuine cook,[5]
who divides his time between the spit and the pen; and the firm need not, therefore, set Mrs.
Rundell's temper upon the simmer, as they are said to have done in days past. Reviewers too!---will
they ever dine together anon?--surely not. Authors are known to be in the malicious habit of
speaking ill of their friends and judges behind their backs; and at dinner-time they will soon
have every opportunity of so doing. How unpleasant to call for beer from the poet you have
just set in a foam; or to ask for the carving-knife from the man you have so lately cut up!
We reviewers shall then never be able to shoot our severity, without the usual coalman's memento
of "take care below!" One advantage, however, from the new system must be conceded, and that
is, that when an author waits in a great man's hall, or stands at his door, he will be pretty
sure of being paid for it; which, in the case of your dangling garreteers, has never hitherto
happened. Crabbe's story of "The Patron" will become obsolete. High Life will, indeed, be below
stairs!

There is a lively spirit of banter in these observations, which is extremely amusing. They
are from the Athenaeum of last week, which, by the way, has more of the intellectual gladiatorship
in its columns than any of its critical contemporaries.

    [5] There is a cookery-book, by "a Lady," and a cookery-book by a
        Physician; but Mrs. Rundell and Dr. Kitchiner will soon be warned
        off the gridiron by the erudite genuine practical cook, who has
        a right to the kitchen stuff of literature. Mrs. R. must show
        herself to be what she professes, and take "her chops out of the
        frying-pan;" and the "good doctor" must "put his tongue into plenty
        of cold water" to cool its boiling, broiling ardour.

       *       *       *       *       *

STEAM.

A Mr. Josph Hardaker has sung the praises of this gigantic power in thirty-five stanzas, entitled
"the Aeropteron; or, Steam Carriage." If his lines run not as glibly as a Liverpool prize engine,
they will afford twenty minutes pleasant reading, and are an illustration of the high and low
pressure precocity of the march of mechanism.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIME'S TELESCOPE FOR 1831

Has appeared in somewhat better style than its predecessors. The paper is of better quality,
the print is in better taste, and there are a few delicate copper-plate engravings. The old
plan or chronological arrangement is, however, nearly worn threadbare, and to supply this defect
there are in the present volume many specimens of contemporary literature. Few of them, however,
are first-rate. The most original portion consists of the Astronomical Occurrences, which extend
to 150 pages.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR CHEMISTRY.

Such is the title of the fifth part or portion of Knowledge for the People: or, the Plain Why
and Because: containing Attraction or Affinity--Crystallization--Heat--Electricity--Light and
Flame--Combustion--Charcoal--Gunpowder and Volcanic Fire. We quote a few articles from most
of the heads:--

Why is the science of chemistry so named?

Because of its origin from the Arabic, in which language it signifies "the knowledge of the
composition of bodies."

The following definitions of chemistry have been given by some of our best writers:--

"Chemistry is the study of the effects of heat and mixture, with the view of discovering their
general and subordinate laws, and of improving the useful arts."--Dr. Black.

"Chemistry is that science which examines the constituent parts of bodies, with reference to
their nature, proportions, and method of combination."--Bergman.

"Chemistry is that science which treats of those events or changes, in natural bodies, which
are not accompanied by sensible motions."--Dr. Thompson.

"Chemistry is a science by which we become acquainted with the intimate and reciprocal action
of all the bodies in nature upon each other."--Fourcroy.

The four preceding definitions are quoted by Mr. Parkes, in his Chemical Catechism.

Dr. Johnson (from Arbuthnot) defines "chymistry" as "philosophy by fire."

Mr. Brande says, "It is the object of chemistry to investigate all changes in the constitution
of matter, whether effected by heat, mixture, or other means."--Manual, 3rd edit. 1830.

Dr. Ure says, "Chemistry may be defined the science which investigates the composition of material
substances, and the permanent changes of constitution which their mutual actions produce."--Dictionary,
edit. 1830.

Cuvier, in one of a series of lectures, delivered at Paris, in the spring of last year, says,
"the name chemistry, itself, comes from the word chim, which was the ancient name of Egypt;"
and he states that minerals were known to the Egyptians "not only by their external characters,
but also by what we at the present day call their chemical characters." He also adds, that
what was afterwards called the Egyptian science, the Hermetic art, the art of transmuting metals,
was a mere reverie of the middle ages, utterly unknown to antiquity. "The pretended books of
Hermes are evidently supposititious, and were written by the Greeks of the lower Empire."

Crystallization.

Why are the crystals collected in camphor bottles in druggists' windows always most copious
upon the surface exposed to the light?

Because the presence of light considerably influences the process of crystallization. Again,
if we place a solution of nitre in a room which has the light admitted only through a small
hole in the window-shutter, crystals will form most abundantly upon the side of the basin exposed
to the aperture through which the light enters, and often the whole mass of crystals will turn
towards it.--Brande.

Why is sugar-candy crystallized on strings, and verdigris on sticks?

Because crystallization is accelerated by introducing into the solution a nucleus, or solid
body, (like the string or stick) upon which the process begins.

The ornamental alum baskets, whose manufacture was once so favourite a pursuit of lady-chemistry,
were made upon this principle; the forms of the baskets being determined by wire framework,
to which the crystals readily adhere.

Why is sugar-candy sometimes in large and regular crystals?

Because the concentrated syrup has been kept for several days and nights undisturbed, in a
very high temperature; for, if perfect rest and a temperature of from 120° to 190° be not afforded,
regular crystals of candy will not be obtained.

The manufacture of barley-sugar is a familiar example of crystallization. The syrup is evaporated
over a slow heat, till it has acquired the proper consistence, when it is poured on metal to
cool, and when nearly so, cut into lengths with shears, then twisted, and again left to harden.

Heat.

Why does hay, if stacked when damp, take fire?

Because the moisture elevates the temperature sufficiently to produce putrefaction, and the
ensuing chemical action causes sufficient heat to continue the process; the quantity of matter
being also great, the heat is proportional.

Why is the air warm in misty or rainy weather?

Because of the liberation of the latent heat from the precipitated vapour.

Why is heated air thinner or lighter than cold air?

Because it is a property of heat to expand all bodies; or rather we should say, that we call
air hot or cold, according as it naturally is more or less expanded.

Why is a tremulous motion observable over chimney-pots, and slated roofs which have been heated
by the sun?

Because the warm air rises, and its refracting power being less than that of the colder air,
the currents are rendered visible by the distortion of objects viewed through them.

Within doors, a similar example occurs above the foot-lights of the stage of a theatre; the
flame of a candle, or the smoke of a lamp.

Why are the gas chandeliers in our theatres placed under a large funnel?

Because the funnel, by passing through the roof into the outer air, operates as a very powerful
ventilator, the heat and smoke passing off with a large proportion of the air of the house.

The ventilation of rooms and buildings can only be perfectly effected, by suffering the heated
and foul air to pass off through apertures in the ceiling, while fresh air, of any desired
temperature, is admitted from below.--Brande.

Why do heated sea-sand and soda form glass?

Because, by heating the mixture, the cohesion of the particles of each substance to those of
its own kind is so diminished, that the mutual attractions of the two substances come into
play, melt together, and unite chemically into the beautiful compound called glass.

Why is sand used in glass?

Because it serves for stone; it being said, that all white transparent stones which will not
burn to lime are fit to make glass.

Electricity.

Why is an arrangement of several Leyden jars called an electrical battery?

Because by a communication existing between all their interior coatings, their exterior being
also united, they may be charged and discharged as one jar.

The discharge of the battery is attended by a considerable report, and if it be passed through
small animals, it instantly kills them; if through fine metallic wires, they are ignited, melted,
and burned; and gunpowder, cotton sprinkled with powdered resin, and a variety of other combustibles,
may be inflamed by the same means.

Why is the fireside an unsafe place in a thunder-storm?

Because the carbonaceous matter, or soot, with which the chimney is lined, acts as a conductor
for the lightning.

Why is the middle of an apartment the safest place during a thunder-storm?

Because, should a flash of lightning strike a building, or enter at any of the windows, it
will take its direction along the walls, without injuring the centre of the room.

Combustion.

Why does amàdou, or German tinder, readily inflame from flint and steel, or from the sudden
condensation of air?

Because it consists of a vegetable substance found on old trees, boiled in water to extract
its soluble parts, then dried and beat with a mallet, to loosen its texture; and lastly, impregnated
with a solution of nitre.---Ure.

Why is a piece of paper lighted, by holding it in the air which rushes out of a common lamp-glass?

Because of the high temperature of the current of air above the flame, the condensation of
which is by the chimney of the glass.

We do not quote these specimens in the precise order in which they occur in the work, or to
show the consecutive or connected interest of the several articles. In many cases we select
them for their brevity and point of illustration.

    [6] Consolations in Travel; or, the Last Days of a Philosopher. 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
  SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHIP-BUILDING.

To give an idea of the enormous quantity of timber necessary to construct a ship of war, we
may observe that 2,000 tons, or 3,000 loads, are computed to be required for a seventy-four.
Now, reckoning fifty oaks to the acre, of 100 years' standing, and the quantity in each tree
to be a load and a half, it would require forty acres of oak forest to build one seventy-four;
and the quantity increases in a great ratio, for the largest class of line of battle ships.
The average duration of these vast machines, when employed, is computed to be fourteen years.
It is supposed, that all the full grown oaks now in Scotland would not build two ships of the line.

Quarterly Journal of Agriculture.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHOWER BATH.

  Quoth Dermot, (a lodger of Mrs. O'Flynn's),
    "How queerly my shower bath feels!
  It shocks like a posse of needles and pins,
    Or a shoal of electrical eels."

  Quoth Murphy, "then mend it, and I'll tell you how,
    Its all your own fault, my good fellow;
  I used to be bothered as you are, but now
    I'm wiser--I take my umbrella."

X.Y.Z.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOWER OF LONDON.

Some of the following inscriptions are to be found in the "Beauchamp Tower."

In the third recess on the left hand is "T.C. I leve in hope, and I gave q credit to mi frinde,
in time did stande me most in hande, so wolde I never doe againe, excepte I hade him suer in
bande, and to al men wishe I so, unles ye sussteine the leike lose as I do.

  "Unhappie is that mane whose actes doth procuer,
  The miseri of this house imprison to induer.

  "1576, Thomas Clark."

Just opposite the same is

  "Hit is the poynt of a wyse man to try and then truste,
  For Hapy is he who fyndeth one that is juste.

  "T. Clarke."

In the same part of the room between the two last recesses is this, in old English:

  "Ano. Dni   ...   Mens. As.
     1568      J.H.S.       23

  "No hope is hard or vayne
  That happ doth ous attayne."

And on the wall on the top of the Beauchamp Tower, are the following lines on a Goldfinch:--

  "Where Raleigh pined within a prison's gloom,
  I chearful sung, nor murmur'd at my doom,
  Where heroes bold and patriots firm could dwell,
  A Goldfinch in Content his note might swell;
  But death more gentle than the law's decree,
  Hath paid my ransom from captivity.

  "Buried June 23rd, 1794, by a fellow-prisoner
  in the Tower of London."

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD THURLOW.

One day, when Lord Thurlow was very busy at his house in Great Ormondstreet, a poor curate
applied to him for a living then vacant, "Don't trouble me," said the chancellor, turning from
him with a frowning brow; "don't you see I am busy, and can't listen to you?" The poor curate
lifted up his eyes, and with dejection said, "he had no Lord to recommend him but the Lord
of Hosts!" "The Lord of Hosts," replied the chancellor, "The Lord of Hosts! I believe I have
had recommendations from most lords, but do not recollect one from him before, and so do you
hear, young man, you shall have the living;" and accordingly presented him with the same.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EAST INDIA COMPANY.

The East India Company was established 1600, their stock then consisting of £72,000, when they
fitted out four ships, and meeting with success, they have continued ever since; in 1683, India
Stock sold from 360 to 500 per cent. A new company was established in 1698; re-established,
and the two united, 1700, agreed to give government £400,000. per annum, for four years, on
condition they might continue unmolested, 1769. In 1773, in great confusion, and applied to
parliament for assistance; judges sent from England by government, faithfully to administer
the laws there to the company's servants, 1774, April 2nd.

T. GILL.

       *       *       *       *       *

A country paper says, "The Corporation are about to build two free schools, one of which is
finished."

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNUAL OF SCIENCE.

Early in March will be published, price 5s.

ARCANA of SCIENCE, and ANNUAL REGISTER of the USEFUL ARTS for 1831.

Comprising POPULAR INVENTIONS, IMPROVEMENTS, and DISCOVERIES Abridged from the Transactions
of Public Societies and Scientific Journals of the past year. With several Engravings.

