He flattered himself that he could spend another man's money with as lordly an air as the youngest
journalist on Fleet-st. The difficulty was to find the man with the money, and Mackenzie had
given much thought during the Sabbath to the potentialities that lay behind Spencer's whim.
He was sure the incident would not close with the publication of Miss Wynton's articles. Judiciously
handled, her unknown benefactor might prove equally beneficial to "The Firefly."

So Helen tripped out into Fleet-st., and turned her pretty face westward, and looked so eager
and happy that it is not surprising if many a man eyed her as she passed, and many a woman
sighed to think that another woman could find life in this dreary city such a joyous thing.

A sharp walk through the Strand and across Trafalgar Square did a good deal toward restoring
the poise of her wits. For safety, she had pinned the envelop containing her paper money and
tickets inside her blouse. The mere presence of the solid little parcel reminded her at every
movement that she was truly bound for the wonderful Engadine, and, now that the notion was
becoming familiar, she was the more astonished that the choice of "The Firefly" had fallen
on her. It was all very well for Mr. Mackenzie to say that the paper would be brightened by
a woman's views on life in the high Alps. The poor worn man looked as if such a holiday would
have done him a world of good. But the certain fact remained that there was no room for error.
It was she, Helen Wynton, and none other, for whom the gods had contrived this miracle. If
it had been possible, she would have crossed busy Cockspur-st. with a hop, skip, and a jump
in order to gain the sleeping car company's premises.

She knew the place well. Many a time had she looked at the attractive posters in the windows,--those
gorgeous fly sheets that told of winter in summer among the mountains of Switzerland and the
Tyrol, and of summer in winter along the sunlit shores of the Côte d'Azur. She almost laughed
aloud at the thought that possessed her as she waited for a moment on the curb to allow a press
of traffic to pass.

"If my luck holds till Christmas, I may be sent to Monte Carlo," she said to herself. "And
why not? It's the first step that counts, and 'The Firefly,' once fairly embarked on a career
of wild extravagance, may keep it up."

Under the pressure of that further inspiration she refused to wait any longer, but dodged an
omnibus, a motor car, and some hansoms, and pushed open the swing doors of the Bureau de la
Campagnie des Wagons-Lits. She did not notice that the automobile stopped very quickly a few
yards higher up the street. The occupant, Mark Bower, alighted, looked at her through the window
to make sure he was not mistaken, and followed her into the building. He addressed some question
to an attendant, and heard Helen say:

"Yes, please. Thursday will suit admirably. I am going straight through to St. Moritz. I shall
call on Wednesday and let you know what day I wish to return."

If Bower had intended to speak to her, he seemed to change his mind rather promptly. Helen's
back was turned. She was watching a clerk writing out a voucher for her berth in the sleeping
car, and the office was full of other prospective travelers discussing times and routes with
the officials. Bower thanked his informant for information which he could have supplied in
ampler detail himself. Then he went out, and looked again at Helen from the doorway; but she
was wholly unaware of his presence.

Thus it came about, quite simply and naturally, that Mark Bower met Miss Helen Wynton on the
platform of Victoria Station on Thursday morning, and learned that, like himself, she was a
passenger by the Engadine Express. He took her presence as a matter of course, hoped she would
allow him to secure her a comfortable chair on the steamer, told her that the weather report
was excellent, and remarked that they might expect a pleasant crossing in the new turbine steamer.

Then, having ascertained that she had a corner seat, and that her luggage was registered through
to St. Moritz (Helen having arrived at the station a good hour before the train was due to
start), he bowed himself away, being far too skilled a stalker of such shy game to thrust his
company on her at that stage.

His attitude was very polite and friendly, and Helen was almost grateful to the chance which
had brought him there. She was feeling just a trifle lonely in the midst of the gay and chattering
throng that crowded the station. The presence of one who was not wholly a stranger, of a friend's
friend, of a man whose name was familiar, made the journey look less dreamlike. She was glad
he had not sought to travel in her carriage. That was tactful, and indeed his courtesy and
pleasant words during her first brief meeting with him in the Embankment Hotel had conveyed
the same favorable impression.

So when the hour hand of the big clock overhanging the center of the platform pointed to eleven,
the long train glided quietly away with its load of pleasure-seekers, and neither Helen nor
her new acquaintance could possibly know that their meeting had been witnessed, with a blank
amazement that was rapidly transmuted into sheer annoyance, by a young American engineer named
Charles K. Spencer.

CHAPTER III

WHEREIN TWO PEOPLE BECOME BETTER ACQUAINTED

Mackenzie, of course, was aware that Miss Wynton would leave London by the eleven o'clock train
on Thursday, and Spencer saw no harm in witnessing her departure. He found a good deal of quiet
fun in noting her animated expression and businesslike air. Her whole-souled enjoyment of novel
surroundings was an asset for the outlay of his two hundred pounds, and he had fully and finally
excused that piece of extravagance until he caught sight of Bower strolling along the platform
with the easy confidence of one who knew exactly whom he would meet and how he would account
for his unbidden presence.

Spencer at once suspected the man's motives, not without fair cause. They were, he thought,
as plain to him as they were hidden from the girl. Bower counterfeited the genuine surprise
on Helen's face with admirable skill; but, to the startled onlooker, peering beneath the actor's
mask, his stagy artifice was laid bare.

And Spencer was quite helpless, a condition that irritated him almost beyond control. He had
absolutely no grounds for interference. He could only glower angrily and in silence at a meeting
he could not prevent. Conjecture might run riot as to the causes which had given this sinister
bend to an idyl, but perforce he must remain dumb.

From one point of view, it was lucky that Helen's self appointed "godfather" was in a position
not to misjudge her; from another, it would have been better for Spencer's peace of mind were
he left in ignorance of the trap that was apparently being laid for her. Perhaps Fate had planned
this thing--having lately smiled on the American, she may have determined to plague him somewhat.
At any rate, in that instant the whole trend of his purpose took a new turn. From a general
belief that he would never again set eyes on one in whose fortunes he felt a transient interest,
his intent swerved to a fixed resolve to protect her from Bower. It would have puzzled him
to assign a motive for his dislike of the man. But the feeling was there, strong and active.
It even gave him a certain satisfaction to remember that he was hostile to Bower before he
had seen him.

Indeed, he nearly yielded to the momentary impulse that bade him hasten to the booking office
and secure a ticket for St. Moritz forthwith. He dismissed the notion as quixotic and unnecessary.
Bower's attitude in not pressing his company on Miss Wynton at this initial stage of the journey
revealed a subtlety that demanded equal restraint on Spencer's part. Helen herself was so far
from suspecting the truth that Bower would be compelled to keep up the pretense of a casual
rencontre. Nevertheless, Spencer's chivalric nature was stirred to the depths. The conversation
overheard in the Embankment Hotel had given him a knowledge of the characteristics of two women
that would have amazed both of them were they told of it. He was able to measure too the exact
extent of Bower's acquaintance with Helen, while he was confident that the relationship between
Bower and Millicent Jaques had gone a great deal further than might be inferred from the actress's
curt statement that he was one whom she "wished to avoid." These two extremes could be reconciled
only by a most unfavorable estimate of Bower, and that the American conceded without argument.

Of course, there remained the possibility that Bower was really a traveler that day by idle
chance; but Spencer blew aside this alternative with the first whiff of smoke from the cigar
he lit mechanically as soon as the train left the station.

"No," he said, in grim self communing, "the skunk found out somehow that she was going abroad,
and planned to accompany her. I could see it in the smirk on his face as soon as he discovered
her whereabouts on the platform. If he means to summer at Maloja, I guess my thousand dollars
was expended to no good purpose, and the quicker I put up another thousand to pull things straight
the happier I shall be. And let me tell you, mother, that if I get Helen through this business
well and happy, I shall quit fooling round as godfather, or stage uncle, or any other sort
of soft-hearted idiot. Meanwhile, Bower has jumped my claim."

His glance happened to fall on an official with the legend "Ticket Inspector" on the collar
of his coat. He remembered that this man, or some other closely resembling him, had visited
the carriage in which Bower traveled.

"Say," he cried, hailing him on the spur of the moment, "when does the next train leave for
St. Moritz?"

"At two-twenty from Charing Cross, sir. But the Engadine Express is the best one. Did you miss it?"

"No. I just blew in here to see a friend off, and the trip kind of appealed to me. Did you
notice a reserved compartment for a Mr. Mark Bower?"

"I know Mr. Bower very well, sir. He goes to Paris or Vienna twenty times a year."

"To-day he is going to Switzerland."

"So he is, to Zurich, I think. First single he had. But he's sure to bring up in Vienna or
Frankfort. I wish I knew half what he knows about foreign money business. I shouldn't be punching
tickets here very long. Thank you, sir. Charing Cross at two-twenty; but you may have difficulty
about booking a berth in the sleeper. Just now everybody is crossing the Channel."

"It looks like that," said Spencer, who had obtained the information he wanted. Taking a cab,
he drove to the sleeping car company's office, where he asked for a map of the Swiss railways.
Zurich, as Bower's destination, puzzled him; but he did not falter in his purpose.

"The man is a rogue," he thought, "or I have never seen one. Anyhow, a night in the train doesn't
cut any ice, and Switzerland can fill the bill for a week as well as London or Scotland."

He was fortunate in the fact that some person wished to postpone a journey that day, and the
accident assured him of comfortable quarters from Calais onward. Then he drove to a bank, and
to "The Firefly" office. Mackenzie had just opened his second bottle of beer. By this time
he regarded Spencer as an amiable lunatic. He greeted him now with as much glee as his dreary
nature was capable of.

"Hello!" he said. "Been to see the last of the lady?"

"Not quite. I want to take back what I said about not going to Switzerland. I'm following this
afternoon."

"Great Scott! You're sudden."

"I'm built that way," said Spencer dryly. "Here are the sixty pounds I promised you. Now I
want you to do me a favor. Send a messenger to the Wellington Theater with a note for Miss
Millicent Jaques, and ask her if she can oblige you with the present address of Miss Helen
Wynton. Make a pretext of work. No matter if she writes to her friend and the inquiry leads
to talk. You can put up a suitable fairy tale, I have no doubt."

"Better still, let my assistant write. Then if necessary I can curse him for not minding his
own business. But what's in the wind?"

"I wish to find out whether or not Miss Jaques knows of this Swiss journey; that is all. If
the reply reaches you by one o'clock send it to the Embankment Hotel. Otherwise, post it to
me at the Kursaal, Maloja-Kulm; but not in an office envelop."

"You'll come back, Mr. Spencer?" said the editor plaintively, for he had visions of persuading
the eccentric American to start a magazine of his own.

"Oh, yes. You'll probably see me again within six days. I'll look in and report progress. Good by."

A messenger caught him as he was leaving the hotel. Mackenzie had not lost any time, and Miss
Jaques happened to be at the theater.

"Sorry," she wrote, in the artistic script that looks so well in face cream and soap advertisements,
"I can't for the life of me remember the number; but Miss Wynton lives somewhere in Warburton
Gardens." The signature, "Millicent Jaques," was an elegant thing in itself, carefully thought
out and never hurried in execution, no matter how pressed she might be for time. Spencer was
on the point of scattering the note in little pieces along the Strand; but he checked himself.

"Guess I'll keep this as a souvenir," he said, and it found a place in his pocketbook.

Helen Wynton, having crossed the Channel many times during her childhood, was no novice amid
the bustle and crush on the narrow pier at Dover. She had dispensed with all accessories for
the journey, except the few articles that could be crammed into a handbag. Thus, being independent
of porters, she was one of the first to reach the steamer's gangway. As usual, all the most
sheltered nooks on board were occupied. There seems to be a mysterious type of traveler who
inhabits the cross-Channel vessels permanently. No matter how speedy may be the movements of
a passenger by the boat-train, either at Dover or Calais, the best seats on the upper deck
invariably reveal the presence of earlier arrivals by deposits of wraps and packages. This
phenomenon was not strange to Helen. A more baffling circumstance was the altered shape of
the ship. The familiar lines of the paddle steamer were gone, and Helen was wondering where
she might best bestow herself and her tiny valise, when she heard Bower's voice.

"I took the precaution to telegraph from London to one of the ship's officers," he said, and
nodded toward a couple of waterproof rugs which guarded a recess behind the Captain's cabin.
"That is our corner, I expect. My friend will be here in a moment."

Sure enough, a man in uniform approached and lifted his gold laced cap. "We have a rather crowded
ship, Mr. Bower," he said; "but you will be quite comfortable there. I suppose you deemed the
weather too fine to need your usual cabin?"

"Yes. I have a companion to-day, you see."

Helen was a little bewildered by this; but it was very pleasant to claim undisputed possession
of a quiet retreat from which to watch others trying to find chairs. And, although Bower had
a place reserved by her side, he did not sit down. He chatted for a few minutes on such eminently
safe topics as the smooth sea, the superiority of turbine engines in the matter of steadiness,
the advisability of lunching in the train after leaving Calais, rather than on board the ship,
and soon betook himself aft, there to smoke and chat with some acquaintances whom he fell in
with. Dover Castle was becoming a gray blur on the horizon when he spoke to Helen again.

"You look quite comfortable," he said pleasantly, "and it is wise not to risk walking about
if you are afraid of being ill."

"I used to cross in bad weather without consequences," she answered; "but I am older now, and
am doubtful of experiments."

"You were educated abroad, then?"

"Yes. I was three years in Brussels--three happy years."

"Ah! Why qualify them? All your years are happy, I should imagine, if I may judge by appearances."

"Well, if happiness can be defined as contentment, you are right; but I have had my sad periods
too, Mr. Bower. I lost my mother when I was eighteen, and that was a blow under which I have
never ceased to wince. Fortunately, I had to seek consolation in work. Added to good health,
it makes for content."

"You are quite a philosopher. Will you pardon my curiosity? I too lead the strenuous life.
Now, I should like to have your definition of work. I am not questioning your capacity. My
wonder is that you should mention it at all."

"But why? Any man who knows what toil is should not regard women as dolls."

"I prefer to look on them as goddesses."

Helen smiled. "I fear, then, you will deem my pedestal a sorry one," she said. "Perhaps you
think, because you met me once in Miss Jaques's company, and again here, traveling de luxe,
that I am in her set. I am not. By courtesy I am called a 'secretary'; but the title might
be shortened into 'typist.' I help Professor von Eulenberg with his--scientific researches."

Though it was on the tip of her tongue to say "beetles," she substituted the more dignified
phrase. Bower was very nice and kind; but she felt that "beetles" might sound somewhat flippant
and lend a too familiar tone to their conversation.

"Von Eulenberg? I have heard of him. Quite a distinguished man in his own line; an authority
on--moths, is it?"

"Insects generally."

She blushed and laughed outright, not only at the boomerang effect of her grandiloquent description
of the professor's industry, but at the absurdity of her position. Above all else, Helen was
candid, and there was no reason why she should not enlighten a comparative stranger who seemed
to take a friendly interest in her.

"I ought to explain," she went on, "that I am going to the Engadine as a journalist. I have
had the good fortune to be chosen for a very pleasant task. Hence this present grandeur, which,
I assure you, is not a usual condition of entomological secretaries."

Bower pretended to ward off some unexpected attack. "I have done nothing to deserve a hard
word like that, Miss Wynton," he cried. "I shall not recover till we reach Calais. May I sit
beside you while you tell me what it means?"

She made room for him. "Strictly speaking, it is nonsense," she said.

"Excellent. That is the better line for women who are young and pretty. We jaded men of the
world hate to be serious when we leave business behind. Now, you would scarce credit what a
lively youngster I am when I come abroad for a holiday. I always kiss my fingers to France
at the first sight of her fair face. She bubbles like her own champagne, whereas London invariably
reminds me of beer."

"Do I take it that you prefer gas to froth?"

"You offer me difficult alternatives, yet I accept them. Though gas is as dreadful a description
of champagne as entomological is of a certain type of secretary, I would venture to point out
that it expands, effervesces, soars ever to greater heights; but beer, froth and all, tends
to become flat, stale, and unprofitable."

"I assure you my knowledge of both is limited. I had never even tasted champagne until the
other day."

"When you lunched with Millicent at the Embankment Hotel?"

"Well--yes. She was at school with me, and we met last week by accident. She is making quite
a success at the Wellington Theater, is she not?"

"So I hear. I am a director of that concern; but I seldom go there."

"How odd that sounds to one who saves up her pennies to attend a favorite play!"

"Then you must have my address, and when I am in town you need never want a stall at any theater
in London. Now, that is no idle promise. I mean it. Nothing would give me greater pleasure
than to think you were enjoying something through my instrumentality."

"How exceedingly kind of you! I shall take you at your word. What girl wouldn't?"

"I know quite a number who regard me as an ogre. I am not a lady's man in the general sense
of the term, Miss Wynton. I might tell you more about myself if it were not for signs that
the next five minutes will bring us to Calais. You are far too independent, I suppose, that
I should offer to carry your bag; but will you allow me to reserve a joint table for déjeuner?
There will be a rush for the first service, which is the best, as a rule, and I have friends
at court on this line. Please don't say you are not hungry."

"That would be impolite, and horribly untrue," laughed Helen.

He took the implied permission, and hurried away. They did not meet again until he came to
her carriage in the train.

"Is this where you are?" he cried, looking up at her through the open window. "I am in the
next block, as they say in America. When you are ready I shall take you to the dining car.
Come out on the platform. The corridors are simply impassable. And here are baskets of peaches,
and ripe pears, and all manner of pleasant fruits. Yes, try the corridor to the right, and
charge resolutely. If you inflict the maximum injury on others, you seldom damage yourself."

In a word, Mark Bower spoke as lightheartedly as he professed to feel, and Helen had no cause
whatever to be other than thankful for the chance that brought him to Switzerland on the same
day and in the same train as herself. His delicate consideration for her well being was manifested
in many ways. That such a man, whom she knew to be a figure of importance in the financial
world, should take an interest in the simple chronicles of her past life was a flattering thing
in itself. He listened sympathetically to the story of her struggles since the death of her
mother. The consequent stoppage of the annuity paid to the widow of an Indian civilian rendered
it necessary that Helen should supplement by her own efforts the fifty pounds a year allotted
to her "until death or marriage."

"There are plenty of country districts where I could exist quite easily on such a sum," she
said; "but I declined to be buried alive in that fashion, and I made up my mind to earn my
own living. Somehow, London appeals to young people situated as I was. It is there that the
great prizes are to be gained; so I came to London."

"From----" broke in Bower, who was peeling one of the peaches bought at Calais.

"From a village near Sheringham, in Norfolk."

He nodded with smiling comprehension when she detailed her struggles with editors who could
detect no originality in her literary work.

"But that phase has passed now," he said encouragingly.

"Well, it looks like it. I hope so; for I am tired of classifying beetles."

There--the word was out at last. Perhaps Bower wondered why she laughed and blushed at the
recollection of her earlier determination to suppress von Eulenberg's "specimens" as a topic
of conversation. Already the stiffness of their talk on board the steamship seemed to have
vanished completely. It was really a pleasant way of passing the time to sit and chat in this
glass palace while the train skimmed over a dull land of marshes and poplars.

"Beetles, though apt to be flighty, are otherwise dull creatures," he said. "May I ask what
paper you are representing on your present tour?"

It was an obvious and harmless question; but Helen was loyal to her bond. "It sounds absurd
to have to say it, but I am pledged to secrecy," she answered.

"Good gracious! Don't tell me you intend to interview anarchists, or runaway queens, or the
other disgruntled people who live in Switzerland. Moreover, they usually find quarters in Geneva,
while you presumably are bound for the Engadine."

"Oh, no. My work lies in less excitable circles. 'Life in a Swiss hotel' would be nearer the mark."

"Apart from the unusual surroundings, you will find it suspiciously like life in a quiet Norfolk
village, Miss Wynton," said Bower. He paused, tasted the peach, and made a grimace. "Sour!"
he protested. "Really, when all is said and done, the only place in which one can buy a decent
peach is London."

"Ah, a distinct score for Britain!"

"And a fair hit to your credit. Let me urge in self defense that if life in France bubbles,
it occasionally leaves a bitter taste in the mouth. Now you shall go and read, and sleep a
little perhaps, if that is not a heretical thing to suggest. We have the same table for afternoon
tea and dinner."

Helen had never met such a versatile man. He talked of most things with knowledge and restraint
and some humor. She could not help admitting that the journey would have been exceedingly dull
without his companionship, and he had the tact to make her feel that he was equally indebted
to her for passing the long hours. At dinner she noticed that they were served with dishes
not supplied to others in the dining car.

"I hope you have not been ordering a dreadfully expensive meal," she ventured to say. "I must
pay my share, you know, and I am quite an economical person."

"There!" he vowed. "That is the first unkind word you have uttered. Surely you will not refuse
to be my guest? Indeed, I was hoping that to-day marked the beginning of a new era, wherein
we might meet at times and criticize humanity to our hearts' content."

"I should feel unhappy if I did not pay," she insisted.

"Well, then, I shall charge you table d'hôte prices. Will that content you?"

So, when the attendant came to the other tables, Helen produced her purse, and Bower solemnly
accepted her few francs; but no bill was presented to him.

"You see," he said, smiling at her through a glass of golden wine, "you have missed a great
opportunity. Not one woman in a million can say that she has dined at the railway company's
expense in France."

She was puzzled. His manner had become slightly more confidential during the meal. It needed
no feminine intuition to realize that he admired her. Excitement, the sea air, the heated atmosphere,
and unceasing onrush of the train, had flushed her cheeks and lent a deeper shade to her brown
eyes. She knew that Bower's was not the only glance that dwelt on her with a curious and somewhat
unnerving appraisement. Other men, and not a few women, stared at her. The mirror in her dressing
room had told her that she was looking her best, and her heart fluttered a little at the thought
that she had succeeded, without effort, in winning the appreciation of a man highly placed
in the world of fashion and finance. The conceit induced an odd feeling of embarrassment. To
dispel it she took up his words in a vein of playful sarcasm.

"If you assure me that for some unexplained reason the railway authorities are giving us this
excellent dinner for nothing, please return my money," she said.

"The gifts of the gods, and eke of railway companies, must be taken without question," he answered.
"No, I shall keep your pieces of silver. I mean to invest them. It will amuse me to learn how
much I can make on an initial capital of twelve francs, fifty centimes. Will you allow that?
I shall be scrupulously accurate, and submit an audited account at Christmas. Even my worst
enemies have never alleged dishonesty against me. Is it a bargain?"

"Y-yes," she stammered confusedly, hardly knowing what he meant. He was leaning over the small
table and looking steadfastly at her. She noticed that the wine and food had made his skin
greasy. It suddenly occurred to her that Mark Bower resembled certain exotic plants which must
be viewed from a distance if they would gratify the critical senses. The gloss of a careful
toilet was gone. He was altogether cruder, coarser, more animal, since he had eaten, though
his consumption of wine was quite moderate. His big, rather fierce eyes were more than prominent
now; they bulged. Certain Jewish characteristics in his face had become accentuated. She remembered
the ancient habit of anointing with oil, and laughed at the thought, for that was a little
trick of hers to conceal nervousness.

"You doubt me, then?" he half whispered. "Or do you deem it beyond the power of finance to
convert so small a sum into hundreds--it may be thousands--of pounds in six months?"

"Indeed I should credit you with ability to do that and more, Mr. Bower," she said; "but I
was wondering why you made such an offer to a mere acquaintance,--one whom it is more than
likely you will never meet again."

The phrase had a harsh and awkward sound in her ears. Bower, to her relief, seemed to ignore it.

"It is permissible to gratify an impulse once in awhile," he countered. "And not to mention
the audited accounts, there was a matter of theater tickets that should serve to bring us together
again. Won't you give me your address, in London if not in Switzerland? Here is mine."

He produced a pocketbook, and picked out a card. It bore his name and his club. He added, in
pencil, "50 Hamilton Place."

"Letters sent to my house reach me, no matter where I may happen to be," he said.

The incident brought fresh tremors to Helen. Indeed, the penciled address came as an unpleasant
shock; for Millicent Jaques, on the day they met in Piccadilly, having gone home with Helen
to tea, excused an early departure on the ground that she was due to dinner at that very house.

But she took the card, and strove desperately to appear at ease, for she had no cause to quarrel
with one whose manners were so courteous.

"Thank you very much," she said. "If you care to see my articles in the--in the paper, I shall
send you copies. Now I must say good by. I am rather tired. Before I go let me say how deeply
indebted I feel for your kindness to-day."

She rose. Bower stood up too, and bowed with smiling deference. "Good night," he said. "You
will not be disturbed by the customs people at the frontier. I have arranged all that."

Helen made the best of her way along the swaying corridors till she reached her section of
the sleeping car; but Bower resumed his seat at the table. He ordered a glass of fine champagne
and held it up to the light. There was a decided frown on his strong face, and the attendant
who served him imagined that there was something wrong with the liqueur.

"N'est-ce pas bon, m'sieur?" he began.

"Will you go to the devil?" said Bower, speaking very slowly without looking at him.

"Oui, m'sieur, Je vous assure," and the man disappeared.

It was not the wine, but the woman, that was perplexing him. Not often had the lure of gold
failed so signally. And why was she so manifestly startled at the last moment? Had he gone
too far? Was he mistaken in the assumption that Millicent Jaques had said little or nothing
concerning him to her friend? And this commission too,--there were inexplicable features about
it. He knew a great deal of the ways of newspapers, daily and weekly, and it was not the journalistic
habit to send inexperienced young women on costly journeys to write up Swiss summer resorts.

He frowned still more deeply as he thought of the Maloja-Kulm Hotel, for Helen had innocently
affixed a label bearing her address on her handbag. He peopled it with dozens of smart young
men and not a few older beaux of his own type. His features relaxed somewhat when he remembered
the women. Helen was alone, and far too good-looking to command sympathy. There should be the
elements of trouble in that quarter. If he played his cards well, and he had no reason to doubt
his skill, Helen should greet him as her best friend when he surprised her by appearing unexpectedly
at the Maloja-Kulm.

Then he waxed critical. She was young, and lively, and unquestionably pretty; but was she worth
all this planning and contriving? She was by way of being a prude too, and held serious notions
of women's place in the scheme of things. At any rate, the day's hunting had not brought him
far out of his path, Frankfort being his real objective, and he would make up his mind later.
Perhaps she would remove all obstacles by writing to him on her return to London; but the recollection
of her frank, clear gaze, of lips that were molded for strength as well as sweetness, of the
dignity and grace with which the well shaped head was poised on a white firm neck, warned him
that such a woman might surrender to love, but never to greed.

Then he laughed, and ordered another liqueur, and drank a toast to to-morrow, when all things
come to pass for the man who knows how to contrive to-day.

In the early morning, at Basle, he awoke, and was somewhat angry with himself when he found
that his thoughts still dwelt on Helen Wynton. In the cold gray glimmer of dawn, and after
the unpleasant shaking his pampered body had received all night, some of the romance of this
latest quest had evaporated. He was stiff and weary, and he regretted the whim that had led
him a good twelve hours astray. But he roused himself and dressed with care. Some twenty minutes
short of Zurich he sent an attendant to Miss Wynton's berth to inquire if she would join him
for early coffee at that station, there being a wait of a quarter of an hour before the train
went on to Coire.

Helen, who was up and dressed, said she would be delighted. She too had been thinking, and,
being a healthy-minded and kind-hearted girl, had come to the conclusion that her abrupt departure
the previous night was wholly uncalled for and ungracious.

So it was with a smiling face that she awaited Bower on the steps of her carriage. She shook
hands with him cordially, did not object in the least degree when he seized her arm to pilot
her through a noisy crowd of foreigners, and laughed with utmost cheerfulness when they both
failed to drink some extraordinarily hot coffee served in glasses that seemed to be hotter still.

Helen had the rare distinction of being quite as bright and pleasing to the eye in the searching
light of the sun's first rays as at any other hour. Bower, though spruce and dandified, looked
rather worn.

"I did not sleep well," he explained. "And the rails to the frontier on this line are the worst
laid in Europe."

"It is early yet," she said. "Why not turn in again when you reach your hotel?"

"Perish the thought!" he cried. "I shall wander disconsolate by the side of the lake. Please
say you will miss me at breakfast. And, by the way, you will find a table specially set apart
for you. I suppose you change at Coire?"

"How kind and thoughtful you are. Yes, I am going to the Engadine, you know."

"Well, give my greetings to the high Alps. I have climbed most of them in my time. More improbable
things have happened than that I may renew the acquaintance with some of my old friends this
year. What fun if you and I met on the Matterhorn or Jungfrau! But they are far away from the
valley of the inn, and perhaps you do not climb."

"I have never had the opportunity; but I mean to try. Moreover, it is part of my undertaking."

"Then may we soon be tied to the same rope!"

Thus they parted, with cheery words, and, on Helen's side, a genuine wish that they might renew
a pleasant acquaintance. Bower waited on the platform to see the last of her as the train steamed
away.

"Yes, it is worth while," he muttered, when the white feathers on her hat were no longer visible.
He did not go to the lake, but to the telegraph office, and there he wrote two long messages,
which he revised carefully, and copied. Yet he frowned again, even while he was paying for
their transmission. Never before had he taken such pains to win any woman's regard. And the
knowledge vexed him, for the taking of pains was not his way with women.

CHAPTER IV

HOW HELEN CAME TO MALOJA

At Coire, or Chur, as the three-tongued Swiss often term it--German being the language most
in vogue in Switzerland--Helen found a cheerful looking mountain train awaiting the coming
of its heavy brother from far off Calais. It was soon packed to the doors, for those Alpine
valleys hum with life and movement during the closing days of July. Even in the first class
carriages nearly every seat was filled in a few minutes, while pandemonium reigned in the cheaper
sections.

Helen, having no cumbersome baggage to impede her movements, was swept in on the crest of the
earliest wave, and obtained a corner near the corridor. She meant to leave her handbag there,
stroll up and down the station for a few minutes, mainly to look at the cosmopolitan crowd,
and perhaps buy some fruit; but the babel of English, German, French, and Italian, mixed with
scraps of Russian and Czech, that raged round a distracted conductor warned her that the wiser
policy was to sit still.

An Englishwoman, red faced, elderly, and important, was offered a center seat, facing the engine,
in Helen's compartment. She refused it. Her indignation was magnificent. To face the engine,
she declared, meant instant illness.

"I never return to this wretched country that I do not regret it!" she shrilled. "Have you
no telegraphs? Cannot your officials ascertain from Zurich how many English passengers may
be expected, and make suitable provision for them?"

As this tirade was thrown away on the conductor, she proceeded to translate it into fairly
accurate French; but the man was at his wits' end to accommodate the throng, and said so, with
the breathless politeness that such a grande dame seemed to merit.

"Then you should set apart a special train for passengers from England!" she declared vehemently.
"I shall never come here again--never! The place is overrun with cheap tourists. Moreover,
I shall tell all my friends to avoid Switzerland. Perhaps, when British patronage is withdrawn
from your railways and hotels, you will begin to consider our requirements."

Helen felt that her irate fellow countrywoman was metaphorically hurling large volumes of the
peerage, baronetage, and landed gentry at the unhappy conductor's head. Again he pointed out
that there was a seat at madam's service. When the train started he would do his best to secure
another in the desired position.

As the woman, whose proportions were generous, was blocking the gangway, she received a forcible
reminder from the end of a heavy portmanteau that she must clear out of the way. Breathing
dire reprisals on the Swiss federal railway system, she entered unwillingly.

"Disgraceful!" she snorted. "A nation of boors! In another second I should have been thrown
down and trampled on."

A stolid German and his wife occupied opposite corners, and the man probably wondered why the
Englischer frau glared at him so fiercely. But he did not move.

Helen, thinking to throw oil on the troubled waters, said pleasantly, "Won't you change seats
with me? I don't mind whether I face the engine or not. In any case, I intend to stand in the
corridor most of the time."

The stout woman, hearing herself addressed in English, lifted her mounted eyeglasses and stared
at Helen. In one sweeping glance she took in details. As it happened, the girl had expended
fifteen of her forty pounds on a neat tailor made costume, a smart hat, well fitting gloves,
and the best pair of walking boots she could buy; for, having pretty feet, it was a pardonable
vanity that she should wish them well shod. Apparently, the other was satisfied that there
would be no loss of caste in accepting the proffered civility.

"Thank you. I am very much obliged," she said. "It is awfully sweet of you to incommode yourself
for my sake."

It was difficult to believe that the woman who had just stormed at the conductor, who had the
effrontery to subject Helen to that stony scrutiny before she answered, could adopt such dulcet
tones so suddenly. Helen, frank and generous-minded to a degree, would have preferred a gradual
subsidence of wrath to this remarkable volte-face. But she reiterated that she regarded her
place in a carriage as of slight consequence, and the change was effected.

The other adjusted her eyeglasses again, and passed in review the remaining occupants of the
compartment. They were "foreigners," whose existence might be ignored.

"This line grows worse each year," she remarked, by way of a conversational opening. "It is
horrid traveling alone. Unfortunately, I missed my son at Lucerne. Are your people on the train?"

"No. I too am alone."

"Ah! Going to St. Moritz?"

"Yes; but I take the diligence there for Maloja."

"The diligence! Who in the world advised that? Nobody ever travels that way."

By "nobody," she clearly conveyed the idea that she mixed in the sacred circle of "somebodies,"
carriage folk to the soles of their boots, because Helen's guidebook showed that a diligence
ran twice daily through the Upper Engadine, and the Swiss authorities would not provide those
capacious four-horsed vehicles unless there were passengers to fill them.

"Oh!" cried Helen. "Should I have ordered a carriage beforehand?"

"Most decidedly. But your friends will send one. They know you are coming by this train?"

Helen smiled. She anticipated a certain amount of cross examination at the hands of residents
in the hotel; but she saw no reason why the ordeal should begin so soon.

"I must take my luck then," she said. "There ought to be plenty of carriages at St. Moritz."

Without being positively rude, her new acquaintance could not repeat the question thus shirked.
But she had other shafts in her quiver.

"You will stay at the Kursaal, of course?" she said.

"Yes."

"A passing visit, or for a period? I ask because I am going there myself."

"Oh, how nice! I am glad I have met you. I mean to remain at Maloja until the end of August."

"Quite the right time. The rest of Switzerland is unbearable in August. You will find the hotel
rather full. The Burnham-Joneses are there,--the tennis players, you know,--and General and
Mrs. Wragg and their family, and the de la Veres, nominally husband and wife,--a most charming
couple individually. Have you met the de la Veres? No? Well, don't be unhappy on Edith's account
if Reginald flirts with you. She likes it."

"But perhaps I might not like it," laughed Helen.

"Ah, Reginald has such fascinating manners!" A sigh seemed to deplore the days of long ago,
when Reginald's fascination might have displayed itself on her account.

Again there was a break in the flow of talk, and Helen began to take an interest in the scenery.
Not to be balked, her inquisitor searched in a portmonnaie attached to her left wrist with
a strap, and produced a card.

"We may as well know each other's names," she cooed affably. "Here is my card."

Helen read, "Mrs. H. de Courcy Vavasour, Villa Menini, Nice."

"I am sorry," she said, with a friendly smile that might have disarmed prejudice, "but in the
hurry of my departure from London I packed my cards in my registered baggage. My name is Helen
Wynton."

The eyeglasses went up once more.

"Do you spell it with an I? Are you one of the Gloucestershire Wintons?"

"No. I live in town; but my home is in Norfolk."

"And whose party will you join at the Maloja?"

Helen colored a little under this rigorous heckling. "As I have already told you, Mrs. Vavasour,
I am alone," she said. "Indeed, I have come here to--to do some literary work."

"For a newspaper?"

"Yes."

Mrs. Vavasour received this statement guardedly. If Helen was on the staff of an important
journal there was something to be gained by being cited in her articles as one of the important
persons "sojourning" in the Engadine.

"It is really wonderful," she admitted, "how enterprising the great daily papers are nowadays."

Helen, very new to a world of de Courcy Vavasours, and Wraggs, and Burnham-Joneses, forgave
this hawklike pertinacity for sake of the apparent sympathy of her catechist. And she was painfully
candid.

"The weekly paper I represent is not at all well known," she explained; "but here I am, and
I mean to enjoy my visit hugely. It is the chance of a lifetime to be sent abroad on such a
mission. I little dreamed a week since that I should be able to visit this beautiful country
under the best conditions without giving a thought to the cost."

Poor Helen! Had she delved in many volumes to obtain material that would condemn her in the
eyes of the tuft hunter she was addressing, she could not have shocked so many conventions
in so few words. She was poor, unknown, unfriended! Worse than these negative defects, she
was positively attractive! Mrs. Vavasour almost shuddered as she thought of the son "missed"
at Lucerne, the son who would arrive at Maloja on the morrow, in the company of someone whom
he preferred to his mother as a fellow traveler. What a pitfall she had escaped! She might
have made a friend of this impossible person! Nevertheless, rendered wary by many social skirmishes,
she did not declare war at once. The girl was too outspoken to be an adventuress. She must
wait, and watch, and furbish her weapons.

Helen, whose brain was nimble enough to take in some of Mrs. Vavasour's limitations, hoped
that the preliminary inquiry into her caste was ended. She went into the corridor. A man made
room for her with an alacrity that threatened an attempt to draw her into conversation, so
she moved somewhat farther away, and gave herself to thought. If this prying woman was a fair
sample of the people in the hotel, it was obvious that the human element in the high Alps held
a suspicious resemblance to society in Bayswater, where each street is a faction and the clique
in the "Terrace" is not on speaking terms with the clique in the "Gardens." Thus far, she owned
to a feeling of disillusionment in many respects.

Two years earlier, a naturalist in the Highlands had engaged von Eulenberg to classify his
collection, and Helen had gone to Inverness with the professor's family. She saw something
then of the glories of Scotland, and her memories of the purple hills, the silvery lakes, the
joyous burns tumbling headlong through woodland and pasture, were not dimmed by the dusty garishness
of the Swiss scenery. True, Baedeker said that these pent valleys were suffocating in midsummer.
She could only await in diminished confidence her first glimpse of the eternal snows.

And again, the holiday makers were not the blithesome creatures of her imagination. Some were
reading, many sleeping, and the rest, for the most part, talking in strange tongues of anything
but the beauties of the landscape. The Britons among them seemed to be brooding on glaciers.
A party of lively Americans were playing bridge, and a scrap of gossip in English from a neighboring
compartment revealed that some woman who went to a dance at Montreux, "wore a cheap voile,
my dear, a last year's bargain, all crumpled and dirty. You never saw such a fright!"

These things were trivial and commonplace; a wide gap opened between them and Helen's day dreams
of Alpine travel. By natural sequence of ideas she began to contrast her present loneliness
with yesterday's pleasant journey, and the outcome was eminently favorable to Mark Bower. She
missed him. She was quite sure, had he accompanied her from Zurich, that he would have charmed
away the dull hours with amusing anecdotes. Instead of feeling rather tired and sleepy, she
would now be listening to his apt expositions of the habits and customs of the places and people
seen from the carriage windows. For fully five minutes her expressive mouth betrayed a little
moue of disappointment.

And then the train climbed a long spiral which gave a series of delightful views of a picturesque
Swiss village,--exactly such a cluster of low roofed houses as she had admired many a time
in photographs of Alpine scenery. An exclamation from a little boy who clapped his hands in
ecstasy caused her to look through a cleft in the nearer hills. With a thrill of wonder she
discovered there, remote and solitary, all garbed in shining white, a majestic snow capped
mountain. Ah! this was the real Switzerland! Her heart throbbed, and her breath came in fluttering
gasps of excitement. How mean and trivial were class distinctions in sight of nature's nobility!
She was uplifted, inspirited, filled with a sedate happiness. She wanted to voice her gladness
as the child had done. A high pitched female voice said:

"Of course I had to call, because Jack meets her husband in the city; but it is an awful bore
knowing such people."

Then the train plunged into a noisome tunnel, and turned a complete circle in the heart of
the rock, and when it panted into daylight again the tall square tower of the village church
had sunk more deeply into the valley. Far beneath, two bright steel ribbons--swallowed by a
cavernous mouth that belched clouds of dense smoke--showed the strangeness of the route that
led to the silent peaks. At times the rails crossed or ran by the side of a white, tree lined
track that mounted ever upward. Though she could not recall the name of the pass, Helen was
aware that this was one of the fine mountain roads for which Switzerland is famous. Pedestrians,
singly or in small parties, were trudging along sturdily. They seemed to be mostly German tourists,
jolly, well fed folk, nearly as many women as men, each one carrying a rucksack and alpenstock,
and evidently determined to cover a set number of kilometers before night.

"That is the way in which I should like to see the Alps," thought Helen. "I am sure they sing
as they walk, and they miss nothing of the grandeur and exquisite coloring of the hills. A
train is very comfortable; but it certainly brings to these quiet valleys a great many people
who would otherwise never come near them."

The force of this trite reflection was borne in on her by a loud wrangle between the bridge
players. A woman had revoked, and was quite wroth with the man who detected her mistake.

At the next stopping place Helen bought some chocolates, and made a friend of the boy, a tiny
Parisian. The two found amusement in searching for patches of snow on the northerly sides of
the nearest hills. Once they caught a glimpse of a whole snowy range, and they shrieked so
enthusiastically that the woman whose husband was also in the city glanced at them with disapproval,
as they interrupted a full and particular if not true account of the quarrel between the Firs
and the Limes.

At last the panting engine gathered speed and rushed along a wide valley into Samaden, Celerina,
and St. Moritz. Mrs. Vavasour seemed to be absorbed in a Tauchnitz novel till the last moment,
and the next sight of her vouchsafed to Helen was her departure from the terminus in solitary
state in a pair-horse victoria. It savored somewhat of unkindness that she had not offered
to share the roomy vehicle with one who had befriended her.

"Perhaps she was afraid I might not pay my share of the hire," said Helen to herself rather
indignantly. But a civil hotel porter helped her to clear the customs shed rapidly, secured
a comfortable carriage, advised her confidentially as to the amount that should be paid, and
promised to telephone to the hotel for a suitable room. She was surprised to find how many
of her fellow passengers were bound for Maloja. Some she had encountered at various stages
of the journey all the way from London, while many, like Mrs. Vavasour, had joined the train
in Switzerland. She remembered too, with a quiet humor that had in it a spice of sarcasm, that
her elderly acquaintance had not come from England, and had no more right to demand special
accommodation at Coire than the dozens of other travelers who put in an appearance at each
station after Basle.

She noticed that as soon as the luggage was handed to the driver to be strapped behind each
vehicle, the newcomers nearly all went to a neighboring hotel for luncheon. Being a healthy
young person, and endowed with a sound digestion, Helen deemed this example too good not to
be followed. Then she began a two hours' drive through a valley that almost shook her allegiance
to Scotland. The driver, a fine looking old man, with massive features and curling gray hair
that reminded her of Michelangelo's head of Moses, knowing the nationality of his fare, resolutely
refused to speak any other language than English. He would jerk round, flourish his whip, and cry:

"Dissa pless St. Moritz Bad; datta pless St. Moritz Dorp."

Soon he announced the "Engelish kirch," thereby meaning the round arched English church overlooking
the lake; or it might be, with a loftier sweep of the whip, "Piz Julier montin, mit lek Silvaplaner
See."

All this Helen could have told him with equal accuracy and even greater detail. Had she not
almost learned by heart each line of Baedeker on the Upper Engadine? Could she not have reproduced
from memory a fairly complete map of the valley, with its villages, mountains, and lakes clearly
marked? But she would not on any account repress the man's enthusiasm, and her eager acceptance
of his quaint information induced fresh efforts, with more whip waving.

"Piz Corvatsch! Him ver' big fellow. Twelf t'ousen foots. W'en me guide him bruk ze leg."

She had seen that he was very lame as he hobbled about the carriage tying up her boxes. So
here was a real guide. That explained his romantic aspect, his love of the high places. And
he had been maimed for life by that magnificent mountain whose scarred slopes were now vividly
before her eyes. The bright sunshine lit lakes and hills with its glory. A marvelous atmosphere
made all things visible with microscopic fidelity. From Campfer to Silvaplana looked to be
a ten minutes' drive, and from Silvaplana to Sils-Maria another quarter of an hour. Helen had
to consult her watch and force herself to admit that the horses were trotting fully seven miles
an hour before she realized that distances could be so deceptive. The summit of the lordly
Corvatsch seemed to be absurdly near. She judged it within the scope of an easy walk between
breakfast and afternoon tea from the hotel on a tree covered peninsula that stretched far out
into Lake Sils-Maria, and she wondered why anyone should fall and break his leg during such
a simple climb. Just to make sure, she glanced at the guidebook, and it gave her a shock when
she saw the words, "Guides necessary,"--"Descent to Sils practicable only for experts,"--"Spend
night at Roseg Inn,"--the route followed being that from Pontresina.

Then she recollected that the lovely valley she was traversing from beginning to end was itself
six thousand feet above sea level,--that the observatory on rugged old Ben Nevis, which she
had visited when in Scotland, was, metaphorically speaking, two thousand feet beneath the smooth
road along which she was being driven, and that the highest peak on Corvatsch was still six
thousand feet above her head. All at once, Helen felt subdued. The fancy seized her that the
carriage was rumbling over the roof of the world. In a word, she was yielding to the exhilaration
of high altitudes, and her brain was ready to spin wild fantasies.

At Sils-Maria she was brought suddenly to earth again. It must not be forgotten that her driver
was a St. Moritz man, and therefore at constant feud with the men from the Kursaal, who brought
empty carriages to St. Moritz, and went back laden with the spoil that would otherwise have
fallen to the share of the local livery stables. Hence, he made it a point of honor to pass
every Maloja owned vehicle on the road. Six times he succeeded, but, on the seventh, reversing
the moral of Bruce's spider, he smashed the near hind wheel by attempting to slip between a
landau and a stone post. Helen was almost thrown into the lake, and, for the life of her, she
could not repress a scream. But the danger passed as rapidly as it had risen, and all that
happened was that the carriage settled down lamely by the side of the road, with its weight
resting on one of her boxes.

The driver spoke no more English. He bewailed his misfortune in free and fluent Italian of
the Romansch order.

But he understood German, and when Helen demanded imperatively that he should unharness the
horses, and help to prop the carriage off a crumpled tin trunk that contained her best dresses,
he recovered his senses, worked willingly, and announced with a weary grin that if the gnädische
fräulein would wait a little half-hour he would obtain another wheel from a neighboring forge.

Having recovered from her fright she was so touched by the poor fellow's distress that she
promised readily to stand by him until repairs were effected. It was a longer job than either
of them anticipated. The axle was slightly bent, and a blacksmith had to bring clamps and a
jackscrew before the new wheel could be adjusted. Even then it had an air of uncertainty that
rendered speed impossible. The concluding five miles of the journey were taken at a snail's
pace, and Helen reflected ruefully that it was possible to "bruk ze leg" on the level high
road as well as on the rocks of Corvatsch.

Of course, she received offers of assistance in plenty. Every carriage that passed while the
blacksmith was at work pulled up and placed a seat therein at her command. But she refused
them all. It was not that she feared to desert her baggage, for Switzerland is proverbially
honest. The unlucky driver had tried to be friendly; his fault was due to an excess of zeal;
and each time she declined the proffered help his furrowed face brightened. If she did not
reach the hotel until midnight she was determined to go there in that vehicle, and in none other.

The accident threw her late, but only by some two hours. Instead of arriving at Maloja in brilliant
sunshine, it was damp and chilly when she entered the hotel. A bank of mist had been carried
over the summit of the pass by a southwesterly wind. Long before the carriage crawled round
the last great bend in the road the glorious panorama of lake and mountains was blotted out
of sight. The horses seemed to be jogging on through a luminous cloud, so dense that naught
was visible save a few yards of roadway and the boundary wall or stone posts on the left side,
where lay the lake. The brightness soon passed, as the hurrying fog wraiths closed in on each
other. It became bitterly cold too, and it was with intense gladness that Helen finally stepped
from the outer gloom into a glass haven of warmth and light that formed a species of covered-in
veranda in front of the hotel.

She was about to pay the driver, having added to the agreed sum half the cost of the broken
wheel by way of a solatium, when another carriage drove up from the direction of St. Moritz.

She fancied that the occupant, a young man whom she had never seen before, glanced at her as
though he knew her. She looked again to make sure; but by that time his eyes were turned away,
so he had evidently discovered his mistake. Still, he seemed to take considerable interest
in her carriage, and Helen, ever ready to concede the most generous interpretation of doubtful
acts, assumed that he had heard of the accident by some means, and was on the lookout for her.

It would indeed have been a fortunate thing for Helen had some Swiss fairy whispered the news
of her mishap in Spencer's ears during the long drive up the mist laden valley. Then, at least,
he might have spoken to her, and used the informal introduction to make her further acquaintance
on the morrow. But the knowledge was withheld from him. No hint of it was even flashed through
space by that wireless telegraphy which has existed between kin souls ever since men and women
contrived to raise human affinities to a plane not far removed from the divine.

He had small store of German, but he knew enough to be perplexed by the way in which Helen's
driver expressed "beautiful thanks" for her gift. The man seemed to be at once grateful and
downhearted. Of course, the impression was of the slightest, but Spencer had been trained in
reaching vital conclusions on meager evidence. He could not wait to listen to Helen's words,
so he passed into the hotel, having the American habit of leaving the care of his baggage to
the hall porter. He wondered why Helen was so late in arriving that he had caught her up on
the very threshold of the Kursaal, so to speak. He would not forget the driver's face, and
if he met the man again, it might be possible to find out the cause of the delay. He himself
was before time. The federal railway authorities at Coire, awaking to the fact that the holiday
rush was beginning, had actually dispatched a relief train to St. Moritz when the second important
train of the day turned up as full as its predecessor.

At dinner Helen and he sat at little tables in the same section of the huge dining hall. The
hotel was nearly full, and it was noticeable that they were the only persons who dined alone.
Indeed, the head waiter asked Spencer if he cared to join a party of men who sat together;
but he declined. There was no such general gathering of women; so Helen was given no alternative,
and she ate the meal in silence.

She saw Mrs. Vavasour in a remote part of the salon. With her was a vacuous looking young man
who seldom spoke to her but was continually addressing remarks to a woman at another table.

"That is the son lost at Lucerne," she decided, finding in his face some of the physical traits
but none of the calculating shrewdness of his mother.

After a repast of many courses Helen wandered into the great hall, found an empty chair, and
longed for someone to speak to. At the first glance, everybody seemed to know everybody else.
That was not really the case, of course. There were others present as neglected and solitary
as Helen; but the noise and merriment of the greater number dominated the place. It resembled
a social club rather than a hotel.

Her chair was placed in an alley along which people had to pass who wished to reach the glass
covered veranda. She amused herself by trying to pick out the Wraggs, the Burnham-Joneses,
and the de la Veres. Suddenly she was aware that Mrs. Vavasour and her son were coming that
way; the son unwillingly, the mother with an air of determination. Perhaps the Lucerne episode
was about to be explained.

When young Vavasour's eyes fell on Helen, the boredom vanished from his face. It was quite
obvious that he called his mother's attention to her and asked who she was. Helen felt that
an introduction was imminent. She was glad of it. At that moment she would have chatted gayly
with even a greater ninny than George de Courcy Vavasour.

But she had not yet grasped the peculiar idiosyncrasies of a woman who was famous for snubbing
those whom she considered to be "undesirables." Helen looked up with a shy smile, expecting
that the older woman would stop and speak; but Mrs. Vavasour gazed at her blankly--looked at
the back of her chair through her body--and walked on.

"I don't know, George," Helen heard her say. "There are a lot of new arrivals. Some person
of no importance, rather déclassée, I should imagine by appearances. As I was telling you,
the General has arranged----"

Taken altogether, Helen had crowded into portions of two days many new and some very unpleasant
experiences.

CHAPTER V

AN INTERLUDE

Helen rose betimes next morning; but she found that the sun had kept an earlier tryst. Not
a cloud marred a sky of dazzling blue. The phantom mist had gone with the shadows. From her
bed room window she could see the whole length of the Ober-Engadin, till the view was abruptly
shut off by the giant shoulders of Lagrev and Rosatch. The brilliance of the coloring was the
landscape's most astounding feature. The lakes were planes of polished turquoise, the rocks
pure grays and browns and reds, the meadows emerald green, while the shining white patches
of snow on the highest mountain slopes helped to blacken by contrast the somber clumps of pines
that gathered thick wherever man had not disputed with the trees the tenancy of each foot of
meager loam.

This morning glory of nature gladdened the girl's heart and drove from it the overnight vapors.
She dressed hurriedly, made a light breakfast, and went out.

There was no need to ask the way. In front of the hotel the narrow Silser See filled the valley.
Close behind lay the crest of the pass. A picturesque château was perched on a sheer rock overhanging
the Vale of Bregaglia and commanding a far flung prospect almost to the brink of Como. On both
sides rose the mountain barriers; but toward the east there was an inviting gorge, beyond which
the lofty Cima di Rosso flung its eternal snows heavenward.

A footpath led in that direction. Helen, who prided herself on her sense of locality, decided
that it would bring her to the valley in which were situated, as she learned by the map, a
small lake and a glacier.

"That will be a fine walk before lunch," she said, "and it is quite impossible to lose the way."

So she set off, crossing the hotel golf course, and making for a typical Swiss church that
crowned the nearest of the foothills. Passing the church, she found the double doors in the
porch open, and peeped in. It was a cozy little place, cleaner and less garish than such edifices
are usually on the Continent. The lamp burning before the sanctuary showed that it was devoted
to Roman Catholic worship. The red gleam of the tiny sentinel conveyed a curiously vivid impression
of faith and spirituality. Though Helen was a Protestant, she was conscious of a benign emotion
arising from the presence of this simple token of belief.

"I must ascertain the hours of service," she thought. "It will be delightful to join the Swiss
peasants in prayer. One might come near the Creator in this rustic tabernacle."

She did not cross the threshold of the inner door. At present her mind was fixed on brisk movement
in the marvelous air. She wanted to absorb the sunshine, to dispel once and for all the unpleasing
picture of life in the high Alps presented by the stupid crowd she had met in the hotel overnight.
Of course, she was somewhat unjust there; but women are predisposed to trust first impressions,
and Helen was no exception to her sex.

Beyond the church the path was not so definite. Oddly enough, it seemed to go along the flat
top of a low wall down to a tiny mountain stream. Steps were cut in the opposite hillside,
but they were little used, and higher up, among some dwarf pines and azaleas, a broader way
wound back toward the few scattered chalets that nestled under the château.

As the guidebook spoke of a carriage road to Lake Cavloccio, and a bridle path thence to within
a mile of the Forno glacier, she came to the conclusion that she was taking a short cut. At
any rate, on the summit of the next little hill she would be able to see her way quite distinctly,
so she jumped across the brook and climbed through the undergrowth. Before she had gone twenty
yards she stopped. She was almost certain that someone was sobbing bitterly up there among
the trees. It had an uncanny sound, this plaint of grief in such a quiet, sunlit spot. Still,
sorrow was not an affrighting thing to Helen. It might stir her sympathies, but it assuredly
could not drive her away in panic.

She went on, not noiselessly, as she did not wish to intrude on some stranger's misery. Soon
she came to a low wall, and, before she quite realized her surroundings, she was looking into
a grass grown cemetery. It was a surprise, this ambush of the silent company among the trees.
Hidden away from the outer world, and so secluded that its whereabouts remain unknown to thousands
of people who visit the Maloja each summer, there was an aspect of stealth in its sudden discovery
that was almost menacing. But Helen was not a nervous subject. The sobbing had ceased, and
when the momentary effect of such a depressing environment had been resolutely driven off,
she saw that a rusty iron gate was open. The place was very small. There were a few monuments,
so choked with weeds and dank grass that their inscriptions were illegible. She had never seen
a more desolate graveyard. Despite the vivid light and the joyous breeze rustling the pine
branches, its air of abandonment was depressing. She fought against the sensation as unworthy
of her intelligence; but she had some reason for it in the fact that there was no visible explanation
of the mourning she had undoubtedly heard.

Then she uttered an involuntary cry, for a man's head and shoulders rose from behind a leafy
shrub. Instantly she was ashamed of her fear. It was the old guide who acted as coachman the
previous evening, and he had been lying face downward on the grass in that part of the cemetery
given over to the unnamed dead.

He recognized her at once. Struggling awkwardly to his feet, he said in broken and halting
German, "I pray your forgiveness, fräulein. I fear I have alarmed you."

"It is I who should ask forgiveness," she said. "I came here by accident. I thought I could
go to Cavloccio by this path."

She could have hit on no other words so well calculated to bring him back to every day life.
To direct the steps of wanderers in his beloved Engadine was a real pleasure to him. For an
instant he forgot that they had both spoken German.

"No, no!" he cried animatedly. "For lek him go by village. Bad road dissa way. No cross ze
field. Verboten!"

Then Helen remembered that trespassers are sternly warned off the low lying lands in the mountains.
Grass is scarce and valuable. Until the highest pastures yield to the arid rock, pedestrians
must keep to the beaten track.

"I was quite mistaken," she said. "I see now that the path I was trying to reach leads here
only. And I am very, very sorry I disturbed you."

He hobbled nearer, the ruin of a fine man, with a nobly proportioned head and shoulders, but
sadly maimed by the accident which, to all appearances, made him useless as a guide.

"Pardon an old man's folly, fräulein," he said humbly. "I thought none could hear, and I felt
the loss of my little girl more than ever to-day."

"Your daughter? Is she buried here?"

"Yes. Many a year has passed; but I miss her now more than ever. She was all I had in the world,
fräulein. I am alone now, and that is a hard thing when the back is bent with age."

Helen's eyes grew moist; but she tried bravely to control her voice. "Was she young?" she asked
softly.

"Only twenty, fräulein, only twenty, and as tall and fair as yourself. They carried her here
sixteen years ago this very day. I did not even see her. On the previous night I fell on Corvatsch."

"Oh, how sad! But why did she die at that age? And in this splendid climate? Was her death
unexpected?"

"Unexpected!" He turned and looked at the huge mountain of which the cemetery hill formed one
of the lowermost buttresses. "If the Piz della Margna were to topple over and crush me where
I stand, it would be less unforeseen than was my sweet Etta's fate. But I frighten you, lady,--a
poor return for your kindness. That is your way,--through the village, and by the postroad
till you reach a notice board telling you where to take the path."

There was a crude gentility in his manner that added to the pathos of his words. Helen was
sure that he wished to be left alone with his memories. Yet she lingered.

"Please tell me your name," she said. "I may visit St. Moritz while I remain here, and I shall
try to find you."

"Christian Stampa," he said. He seemed to be on the point of adding something, but checked
himself. "Christian Stampa," he repeated, after a pause. "Everybody knows old Stampa the guide.
If I am not there, and you go to Zermatt some day--well, just ask for Stampa. They will tell
you what has become of me."

She found it hard to reconcile this broken, careworn old man with her cheery companion of the
previous afternoon. What did he mean? She understood his queer jargon of Italianized German
quite clearly; but there was a sinister ring in his words that blanched her face. She could
not leave him in his present mood. She was more alarmed now than when she saw him rising ghostlike
from behind the screen of grass and weeds.

"Please walk with me to the village," she said. "All this beautiful land is strange to me.
It will divert your thoughts from a mournful topic if you tell me something of its wonders."

He looked at her for an instant. Then his eyes fell on the church in the neighboring hollow,
and he crossed himself, murmuring a few words in Italian. She guessed their meaning. He was
thanking the Virgin for having sent to his rescue a girl who reminded him of his lost Etta.

"Yes," he said, "I will come. If I were remaining in the Maloja, fräulein, I would beg you
to let me take you to the Forno, and perhaps to one of the peaks beyond. Old as I am, and lame,
you would be safe with me."

Helen breathed freely again. She felt that she had been within measurable distance of a tragedy.
Nor was there any call on her wits to devise fresh means of drawing his mind away from the
madness that possessed him a few minutes earlier. As he limped unevenly by her side, his talk
was of the mountains. Did she intend to climb? Well, slow and sure was the golden rule. Do
little or nothing during four or five days, until she had grown accustomed to the thin and
keen Alpine air. Then go to Lake Lunghino,--that would suffice for the first real excursion.
Next day, she ought to start early, and climb the mountain overlooking that same lake,--up
there, on the other side of the hotel,--all rock and not difficult. If the weather was clear,
she would have a grand view of the Bernina range. Next she might try the Forno glacier. It
was a simple thing. She could go to and from the cabane in ten hours. Afterward, the Cima di
Rosso offered an easy climb; but that meant sleeping at the hut. All of which was excellent
advice, though the reflection came that Stampa's "slow and sure" methods were not strongly
in evidence some sixteen hours earlier.

Now, the Cima di Rosso was in full view at that instant. Helen stopped.

"Do you really mean to tell me that if I wish to reach the top of that mountain, I must devote
two days to it?" she cried.

Stampa, though bothered with troubles beyond her ken, forgot them sufficiently to laugh grimly.
"It is farther away than you seem to think, fräulein; but the real difficulty is the ice. Unless
you cross some of the crevasses in the early morning, before the sun has had time to undo the
work accomplished by the night's frost, you run a great risk. And that is why you must be ready
to start from the cabane at dawn. Moreover, at this time of year, you get the finest view about
six o'clock."

The mention of crevasses was somewhat awesome. "Is it necessary to be roped when one tries
that climb?" she asked.

"If any guide ever tells you that you need not be roped while crossing ice or climbing rock,
turn back at once, fräulein. Wait for another day, and go with a man who knows his business.
That is how the Alps get a bad name for accidents. Look at me! I have climbed the Matterhorn
forty times, and the Jungfrau times out of count, and never did I or anyone in my care come
to grief. 'Use the rope properly,' is my motto, and it has never failed me, not even when two
out of five of us were struck senseless by falling stones on the south side of Monte Rosa."

Helen experienced another thrill. "I very much object to falling stones," she said.

Stampa threw out his hands in emphatic gesture. "What can one do?" he cried. "They are always
a danger, like the snow cornice and the névé. There is a chimney on the Jungfrau through which
stones are constantly shooting from a height of two thousand feet. You cannot see them,--they
travel too fast for the eye. You hear something sing past your ears, that is all. Occasionally
there is a report like a gunshot, and then you observe a little cloud of dust rising from a
new scar on a rock. If you are hit--well, there is no dust, because the stone goes right through.
Of course one does not loiter there."

Then, seeing the scared look on her face, he went on. "Ladies should not go to such places.
It is not fit. But for men, yes. There is the joy of battle. Do not err, fräulein,--the mountains
are alive. And they fight to the death. They can be beaten; but there must be no mistakes.
They are like strong men, the hills. When you strive against them, strain them to your breast
and never relax your grip. Then they yield slowly, with many a trick and false move that a
man must learn if he would look down over them all and say, 'I am lord here.' Ah me! Shall
I ever again cross the Col du Lion or climb the Great Tower? But there! I am old, and thrown
aside. Boys whom I engaged as porters would refuse me now as their porter. Better to have died
like my friend, Michel Croz, than live to be a goatherd."

He seemed to pull himself up with an effort. "That way--to your left--you cannot miss the path.
Addio, sigñorina," and he lifted his hat with the inborn grace of the peasantry of Southern Europe.

Helen was hoping that he might elect to accompany her to Cavloccio. She would willingly have
paid him for loss of time. Her ear was becoming better tuned each moment to his strange patois.
Though he often gave a soft Italian inflection to the harsh German syllables, she grasped his
meaning quite literally. She had read so much about Switzerland that she knew how Michel Croz
was killed while descending the Matterhorn after having made the first ascent. That historic
accident happened long before she was born. To hear a man speak of Croz as a friend sounded
almost unbelievable, though a moment's thought told her that Whymper, who led the attack on
the hitherto impregnable Cervin on that July day in 1865, was still living, a keen Alpinist.

She could not refrain from asking Stampa one question, though she imagined that he was now
in a hurry to take the damaged carriage back to St. Moritz. "Michel Croz was a brave man,"
she said. "Did you know him well?"

"I worshiped him, fräulein," was the reverent answer. "May I receive pardon in my last hour,
but I took him for an evil spirit on the day of his death! I was with Jean Antoine Carrel in
Signor Giordano's party. We started from Breuil, Croz and his voyageurs from Zermatt. We failed;
he succeeded. When we saw him and his Englishmen on the summit, we believed they were devils,
because they yelled in triumph, and started an avalanche of stones to announce their victory.
Three days later, Carrel and I, with two men from Breuil, tried again. We gained the top that
time, and passed the place where Croz was knocked over by the English milord and the others
who fell with him. I saw three bodies on the glacier four thousand feet below,--a fine burial-ground,
better than that up there."

He looked back at the pines which now hid the cemetery wall from sight. Then, with another
courteous sweep of his hat, he walked away, covering the ground rapidly despite his twisted leg.

If Helen had been better trained as a woman journalist, she would have regarded this meeting
with Stampa as an incident of much value. Long experience of the lights and shades of life
might have rendered her less sensitive. As it was, the man's personality appealed to her. She
had been vouchsafed a glimpse into an abyss profound as that into which Stampa himself peered
on the day he discovered three of the four who fell from the Matterhorn still roped together
in death. The old man's simple references to the terrors lurking in those radiant mountains
had also shaken her somewhat. The snow capped Cima di Rosso no longer looked so attractive.
The Orlegna Gorge had lost some of its beauty. Though the sun was pouring into its wooded depths,
it had grown gloomy and somber in her eyes. Yielding to impulse, she loitered in the village,
took the carriage road to the château, and sat there, with her back to the inner heights and
her gaze fixed on the smiling valley that opened toward Italy out of the Septimer Pass.

Meanwhile, Stampa hurried past the stables, where his horses were munching the remains of the
little oaten loaves which form the staple food of hard worked animals in the Alps. He entered
the hotel by the main entrance, and was on his way to the manager's bureau, when Spencer, smoking
on the veranda, caught sight of him.

Instantly the American started in pursuit. By this time he had heard of Helen's accident from
one of yesterday's passers by. It accounted for the delay; but he was anxious to learn exactly
what had happened.

Stampa reached the office first. He was speaking to the manager, when Spencer came in and said
in his downright way:

"This is the man who drove Miss Wynton from St. Moritz last night. I don't suppose I shall
be able to understand what he says. Will you kindly ask him what caused the trouble?"

"It is quite an easy matter," was the smiling response. "Poor Stampa is not only too eager
to pass every other vehicle on the road, but he is inclined to watch the mountains rather than
his horses' ears. He was a famous guide once; but he met with misfortune, and took to carriage
work as a means of livelihood. He has damaged his turnout twice this year; so this morning
he was dismissed by telephone, and another driver is coming from St. Moritz to take his place."

Spencer looked at Stampa. He liked the strong, worn face, with its half wistful, half resigned
expression. An uneasy feeling gripped him that the whim of a moment in the Embankment Hotel
might exert its crazy influence in quarters far removed from the track that seemed then to
be so direct and pleasure-giving.

"Why did he want to butt in between the other fellow and the landscape? What was the hurry,
anyhow?" he asked.

Stampa smiled genially when the questions were translated to him. "I was talking to the sigñorina,"
he explained, using his native tongue, for he was born on the Italian side of the Bernina.

"That counts, but it gives no good reason why he should risk her life," objected Spencer.

Stampa's weather furrowed cheeks reddened. "There was no danger," he muttered wrathfully. "Madonna!
I would lose the use of another limb rather than hurt a hair of her head. Is she not my good
angel? Has she not drawn me back from the gate of hell? Risk her life! Are people saying that
because a worm-eaten wheel went to pieces against a stone?"

"What on earth is he talking about?" demanded Spencer. "Has he been pestering Miss Wynton this
morning with some story of his present difficulties?"

The manager knew Stampa's character. He put the words in kindlier phrase. "Does the sigñorina
know that you have lost your situation?" he said.

Even in that mild form, the suggestion annoyed the old man. He flung it aside with scornful
gesture, and turned to leave the office. "Tell the gentleman to go to Zermatt and ask in the
street if Christian Stampa the guide would throw himself on a woman's charity," he growled.

Spencer did not wait for any interpretation. "Hold on," he said quietly. "What is he going
to do now? Work, for a man of his years, doesn't grow on gooseberry bushes, I suppose."

"Christian, Christian! You are hot-headed as a boy," cried the manager. "The fact is," he went
on, "he came to me to offer his services. But I have already engaged more drivers than I need,
and I am dismissing some stable men. Perhaps he can find a job in St. Moritz."

"Are his days as guide ended?"

"Unfortunately, yes. I believe he is as active as ever; but people won't credit it. And you
cannot blame them. When one's safety depends on a man who may have to cling to an ice covered
rock like a fly to a window-pane, one is apt to distrust a crooked leg."

"Did he have an accident?"

The manager hesitated. "It is part of his sad history," he said. "He fell, and nearly killed
himself; but he was hurrying to see the last of a daughter to whom he was devoted."

"Is he a local man, then?"

"No. Oh, no! The girl happened to be here when the end came."

"Well, I guess he will suit my limited requirements in the fly and window-pane business while
I remain in Maloja," said Spencer. "Tell him I am willing to put up ten francs a day and extras
for his exclusive services as guide during my stay."

Poor Stampa was nearly overwhelmed by this unexpected good fortune. In his agitation he blurted
out, "Ah, then, the good God did really send an angel to my help this morning!"

Spencer, however, reviewing his own benevolence over a pipe outside the hotel, expressed the
cynical opinion that the hot sun was affecting his brain. "I'm on a loose end," he communed.
"Next time I waft myself to Europe on a steamer I'll bring my mother. It would be a bully fine
notion to cable for her right away. I want someone to take care of me. It looks as if I had
a cinch on running this hotel gratis. What in thunder will happen next?"

He could surely have answered that query if he had the least inkling of the circumstances governing
Helen's prior meeting with Stampa. As it was, the development of events followed the natural
course. While Spencer strolled off by the side of the lake, the old guide lumbered into the
village street, and waited there, knowing that he would waylay the bella Inglesa on her return.
Though she came from the château and not from Cavloccio, he did not fail to see her.

At first she was at a loss to fathom the cause of Stampa's delight, and still less to understand
why he should want to thank her with such exuberance. She imagined he was overjoyed at having
gone back to his beloved profession, and it was only by dint of questioning that she discovered
the truth. Then it dawned on her that the man had been goaded to desperation by the curt message
from St. Moritz,--that he was sorely tempted to abandon the struggle, and follow into the darkness
the daughter taken from him so many years ago,--and the remembrance of her suspicion when they
were about to part at the cemetery gate lent a serious note to her words of congratulation.

"You see, Stampa," she said, "you were very wrong to lose faith this morning. At the very moment
of your deepest despair Heaven was providing a good friend for you."

"Yes, indeed, fräulein. That is why I waited here. I felt that I must thank you. It was all
through you. The good God sent you----"

"I think you are far more beholden to the gentleman who employed you than to me," she broke in.

"Yes, he is splendid, the young voyageur; but it was wholly on your account, lady. He was angry
with me at first, because he thought I placed you in peril in the matter of the wheel."

Helen was amazed. "He spoke of me?" she cried.

"Ah, yes. He did not say much, but his eyes looked through me. He has the eyes of a true man,
that young American."

She was more bewildered than ever. "What is his name?" she asked.

"Here it is. The director wrote it for me, so that I may learn how to pronounce it."

Stampa produced a scrap of paper, and Helen read, "Mr. Charles K. Spencer."

"Are you quite certain he mentioned me?" she repeated.

"Can I be mistaken, fräulein. I know, because I studied the labels on your boxes. Mees Hélène
Weenton--so? And did he not rate me about the accident?"

"Well, wonders will never cease," she vowed; and indeed they were only just beginning in her
life, which shows how blind to excellent material wonders can be.

At luncheon she summoned the head waiter. "Is there a Mr. Charles K. Spencer staying in the
hotel?" she asked.

"Yes, madam."

"Will you please tell me if he is in the room?"

The head waiter turned. Spencer was studying the menu. "Yes, madam. There he is, sitting alone,
at the second table from the window."

It was quite to be expected that the subject of their joint gaze should look at them instantly.
There is a magnetism in the human eye that is unfailing in that respect, and its power is increased
a hundredfold when a charming young woman tries it on a young man who happens to be thinking
of her at the moment.

Then Spencer realized that Stampa had told Helen what had taken place in the hotel bureau,
and he wanted to kick himself for having forgotten to make secrecy a part of the bargain.

Helen, knowing that he knew, blushed furiously. She tried to hide her confusion by murmuring
something to the head waiter. But in her heart she was saying, "Who in the world is he? I have
never seen him before last night. And why am I such an idiot as to tremble all over just because
he happened to catch me looking at him?"

CHAPTER VI

THE BATTLEFIELD

Both man and woman were far too well bred to indulge in an oeillade. The knowledge that each
was thinking of the other led rather to an ostentatious avoidance of anything that could be
construed into any such flirtatious overture.

Though Stampa's curious statement had puzzled Helen, she soon hit on the theory that the American
must have heard of the accident to her carriage. Yes, that supplied a ready explanation. No
doubt he kept a sharp lookout for her on the road. He arrived at the hotel almost simultaneously
with herself, and she had not forgotten his somewhat inquiring glance as they stood together
on the steps. With the chivalry of his race in all things concerning womankind, he was eager
to render assistance, and under the circumstances he probably wondered what sort of damsel
in distress it was that needed help. It was natural enough too that in engaging Stampa he should
refer to the carelessness that brought about the collapse of the wheel. Really, when one came
to analyze an incident seemingly inexplicable, it resolved itself into quite commonplace constituents.

She found it awkward that he should be sitting between her and a window commanding the best
view of the lake. If Spencer had been at any other table, she could have feasted her eyes on
the whole expanse of the Ober-Engadin Valley. Therefore she had every excuse for looking that
way, whereas he had none for gazing at her. Spencer appeared to be aware of this disability.
For lack of better occupation he scrutinized the writing on the menu with a prolonged intentness
worthy of a gourmand or an expert graphologist.

Helen rose first, and that gave him an opportunity to note her graceful carriage. Though born
in the States, he was of British stock, and he did not share the professed opinion of the American
humorist that the typical Englishwoman is angular, has large feet, and does not know how to
walk. Helen, at any rate, betrayed none of these elements of caricature. Though there were
several so-called "smart" women in the hotel,--women who clung desperately to the fringe of
Society on both sides of the Atlantic,--his protégée was easily first among the few who had
any claim to good looks.

Helen was not only tall and lithe, but her movements were marked by a quiet elegance. It was
her custom, in nearly all weathers, to walk from Bayswater to Professor von Eulenberg's study,
which, needless to say, was situated near the British Museum. She usually returned by a longer
route, unless pelting rain or the misery of London snow made the streets intolerable. Thus
there was hardly a day that she did not cover eight miles at a rapid pace, a method of training
that eclipsed all the artifices of beauty doctors and schools of deportment. Her sweetly pretty
face, her abundance of shining brown hair, her slim, well proportioned figure, and the almost
athletic swing of her well arched shoulders, would entitle her to notice in a gathering of
beauties far more noted than those who graced Maloja with their presence that year. In addition
to these physical attractions she carried with her the rarer and indefinable aura of the born
aristocrat. As it happened, she merited that description both by birth and breeding; but there
is a vast company entitled to consideration on that score to whom nature has cruelly denied
the necessary hallmarks--otherwise the pages of Burke would surely be embellished with portraits.

Indeed, so far as appearance went, it was rather ludicrous to regard Helen as the social inferior
of any person then resident in the Kursaal, and it is probable that a glimmering knowledge
of this fact inflamed Mrs. de Courcy Vavasour's wrath to boiling point, when a few minutes
later, she saw her son coolly walk up to the "undesirable" and enter into conversation with her.

Helen was seated in a shady corner. A flood of sunlight filled the glass covered veranda with
a grateful warmth. She had picked up an astonishingly well written and scholarly guide book
issued by the proprietors of the hotel, and was deep in its opening treatise on the history
and racial characteristics of the Engadiners, when she was surprised at hearing herself addressed
by name.

"Er--Miss--er--Wynton, I believe?" said a drawling voice.

Looking up, she found George de Courcy Vavasour bending over her in an attitude that betokened
the utmost admiration for both parties to the tête-à-tête. Under ordinary conditions,--that
is to say, if Vavasour's existence depended on his own exertions,--Helen's eyes would have
dwelt on a gawky youth endowed with a certain pertness that might in time have brought him
from behind the counter of a drapery store to the wider arena of the floor. As it was, a reasonably
large income gave him unbounded assurance, and his credit with a good tailor was unquestionable.
He represented a British product that flourishes best in alien soil. There exists a foreign
legion of George de Courcy Vavasours, flaccid heroes of fashion plates, whose parade grounds
change with the seasons from Paris to the Riviera, and from the Riviera to some nook in the
Alps. Providence and a grandfather have conspired in their behalf to make work unnecessary;
but Providence, more far-seeing than grandfathers, has decreed that they shall be effete and
light brained, so the type does not endure.

Helen, out of the corner of her eye, became aware that Mrs. de Courcy Vavasour was advancing
with all the plumes of the British matron ruffled for battle. It was not in human nature that
the girl should not recall the slight offered her the previous evening. With the thought came
the temptation to repay it now with interest; but she thrust it aside.

"Yes, that is my name," she said, smiling pleasantly.

"Well--er--the General has asked me to--er--invite you take part in some of our tournaments.
We have tennis, you know, an' golf, an' croquet, an' that sort of thing. Of course, you play
tennis, an' I rather fancy you're a golfer as well. You look that kind of girl--Eh, what?"

He caressed a small mustache as he spoke, using the finger and thumb of each hand alternately,
and Helen noticed that his hands were surprisingly large when compared with his otherwise fragile
frame.

"Who is the General?" she inquired.

"Oh, Wragg, you know. He looks after everything in the amusement line, an' I help. Do let me
put you down for the singles an' mixed doubles. None of the women here can play for nuts, an'
I haven't got a partner yet for the doubles. I've been waitin' for someone like you to turn up."

"You have not remained long in suspense," she could not help saying. "You are Mr. Vavasour,
are you not?"

"Yes, better known as Georgie."

"And you arrived in Maloja last evening, I think. Well, I do play tennis, or rather, I used
to play fairly well some years ago----"

"By gad! just what I thought. Go slow in your practice games, Miss Wynton, an' you'll have
a rippin' handicap."

"Would that be quite honest?" said Helen, lifting her steadfast brown eyes to meet his somewhat
too free scrutiny.

"Honest? Rather! You wait till you see the old guard pullin' out a bit when they settle down
to real business. But the General is up to their little dodges. He knows their form like a
book, an' he gets every one of 'em shaken out by the first round--Eh, what?"

"The arrangement seems to be ideal if one is friendly with the General," said Helen.

Vavasour drew up a chair. He also drew up the ends of his trousers, thus revealing that the
Pomeranian brown and myrtle green stripes in his necktie were faithfully reproduced in his
socks, while these master tints were thoughtfully developed in the subdominant hues of his
clothes and boots.

"By Jove! what a stroke of luck I should have got hold of you first!" he chuckled. "I'm pretty
good at the net, Miss Wynton. If we manage things properly, we ought to have the mixed doubles
a gift with plus half forty, an' in the ladies' singles you'll be a Queen's Club champion at
six-stone nine--Eh, what?"

Though Vavasour represented a species of inane young man whom Helen detested, she bore with
him because she hungered for the sound of an English voice in friendly converse this bright
morning. At times her life was lonely enough in London; but she had never felt her isolation
there. The great city appealed to her in all its moods. Her cheerful yet sensitive nature did
not shrink from contact with its hurrying crowds. The mere sense of aloofness among so many
millions of people brought with it the knowledge that she was one of them, a human atom plunged
into a heedless vortex the moment she passed from her house into the street.

Here in Maloja things were different. While her own identity was laid bare, while men and women
canvassed her name, her appearance, her occupation, she was cut off from them by a social wall
of their own contriving. The attitude of the younger women told her that trespassers were forbidden
within that sacred fold. She knew now that she had done a daring thing--outraged one of the
cheap conventions--in coming alone to this clique-ridden Swiss valley. Better a thousand times
have sought lodgings in some small village inn, and mixed with the homely folk who journeyed
thither on the diligence or tramped joyously afoot, than strive to win the sympathy of any
of these shallow nonentities of the smart set.

Even while listening to "Georgie's" efforts to win her smiles with slangy confidences, she
saw that Mrs. Vavasour had halted in mid career, and joined a group of women, evidently a mother
and two daughters, and that she herself was the subject of their talk. She wondered why. She
was somewhat perplexed when the conclave broke up suddenly, the girls going to the door, Mrs.
Vavasour retreating majestically to the far end of the veranda, and the other elderly woman
drawing a short, fat, red faced man away from a discussion with another man.

"Jolly place, this," Vavasour was saying. "There's dancin' most nights. The dowager brigade
want the band to play classical music, an' that sort of rot, you know; but Mrs. de la Vere
and the Wragg girls like a hop, an' we generally arrange things our own way. We'll have a dance
to-night if you wish it; but you must promise to----"

"Georgie," cried the pompous little man, "I want you a minute!"

Vavasour swung round. Evidently he regarded the interruption as "a beastly bore." "All right,
General," he said airily. "I'll be there soon. No hurry, is there?"

"Yes, I want you now!" The order was emphatic. The General's only military asset was a martinet
voice, and he made the most of it.

"Rather rotten, isn't it, interferin' with a fellow in this way?" muttered Vavasour. "Will
you excuse me? I must see what the old boy is worryin' about. I shall come back soon--Eh, what?"

"I am going out," said Helen; "but we shall meet again. I remain here a month."

"You'll enter for the tournament?" he asked over his shoulder.

"I--think so. It will be something to do."

"Thanks awfully. And don't forget to-night."

Helen laughed. She could not help it. The younger members of the Wragg family were eying her
sourly through the glass partition. They seemed to be nice girls too, and she made up her mind
to disillusion them speedily if they thought that she harbored designs on the callow youth
whom they probably regarded as their own special cavalier.

When she passed through the inner doorway to go to her room she noticed that the General was
giving Georgie some instructions which were listened to in sulky silence. Indeed, that remarkable
ex-warrior was laying down the law of the British parish with a clearness that was admirable.
He had been young himself once,--dammit!--and had as keen an eye for a pretty face as any other
fellow; but no gentleman could strike up an acquaintance with an unattached female under the
very nose of his mother, not to mention the noses of other ladies who were his friends. Georgie
broke out in protest.

"Oh, but I say, General, she is a lady, an' you yourself said----"

"I know I did. I was wrong. Even a wary old bird like me can make a mistake. Mrs. Vavasour
has just warned my wife about her. It's no good arguing, Georgie, my boy. Nowadays you can't
draw the line too rigidly. Things permissible in Paris or Nice won't pass muster here. I'm
sorry, Georgie. She's a high stepper and devilish taking, I admit. Writes for some ha'penny
rag--er--for some cheap society paper, I hear. Why, dash it all, she will be lampooning us
in it before we know where we are. Just you go and tell your mother you'll behave better in
future. Excellent woman, Mrs. Vavasour. She never makes a mistake. Gad! don't you remember
how she spotted that waiter from the Ritz who gulled the lot of us at the Jetée last winter?
Took him for the French marquis he said he was, every one of us, women and all, till Mrs. V.
fixed her eye on him and said, 'Gustave!' Damme! how he curled up!"

George was still obdurate. A masquerading waiter differed from Helen in many essentials. "He
was a Frenchman, an' they're mostly rotters. This girl is English, General, an' I shall look
a proper sort of an ass if I freeze up suddenly after what I've said to her."

"Not for the first time, my boy, and mebbe not for the last." Then, in view of the younger
man's obvious defiance, the General's white mustache bristled. "Of course, you can please yourself,"
he growled: "but neither Mrs. Wragg nor my daughters will tolerate your acquaintance with that
person!"

"Oh, all right, General," came the irritated answer. "Between you an' the mater I've got to
come to heel; but it's a beastly shame, I say, an' you're all makin' a jolly big mistake."

Georgie's intelligence might be superficial; but he knew a lady when he met one, and Helen
had attracted him powerfully. He was thanking his stars for the good fortune that numbered
him among the earliest of her acquaintances in the hotel, and it was too bad that the barring
edict should have been issued against her so unexpectedly. But he was not of a fighting breed,
and he quailed before the threat of Mrs. Wragg's displeasure.

Helen, after a delightful ramble past the château and along the picturesque turns and twists
of the Colline des Artistes, returned in time for tea, which was served on the veranda, the
common rendezvous of the hotel during daylight. No one spoke to her. She went out again, and
walked by the lake till the shadows fell and the mountains glittered in purple and gold. She
dressed herself in a simple white evening frock, dined in solitary state, and ventured into
the ball room after dinner.

Georgie was dancing with Mrs. de la Vere, a languid looking woman who seemed to be pining for
admiration. At the conclusion of the waltz that was going on when Helen entered, Vavasour brought
his partner a whisky and soda and a cigarette. He passed Helen twice, but ignored her, and
whirled one of the Wragg girls off into a polka. Again he failed to see her when parties were
being formed for a quadrille. Even to herself she did not attempt to deny a feeling of annoyance,
though she extracted a bitter amusement from the knowledge that she had been slighted by such
a vapid creature.

She was under no misconception as to what had happened. The women were making a dead set against
her. If she had been plain or dowdy, they might have been friendly enough. It was an unpardonable
offense that she should be good looking, unchaperoned, and not one of the queerly assorted
mixture they deemed their monde. For a few minutes she was really angry. She realized that
her only crime was poverty. Given a little share of the wealth held by many of these passée
matrons and bold-eyed girls, she would be a reigning star among them, and could act and talk
as she liked. Yet her shyness and reserve would have been her best credentials to any society
that was constituted on a sounder basis than a gathering of snobs. Among really well-born people
she would certainly have been received on an equal footing until some valid reason for ostracism
was forthcoming. The imported limpets on this Swiss rock of gentility were not sure of their
own grip. Hence, they strenuously refused to make room for a newcomer until they were shoved aside.

Poor, disillusioned Helen! When she went to church she prayed to the good Lord to deliver her
and everybody else from envy, hatred, and malice, and all uncharitableness. She felt now that
there might well be added to the Litany a fresh petition which should include British communities
on the Continent in the list of avoidable evils.

At that instant the piquant face and figure of Millicent Jaques rose before her mind's eye.
She pictured to herself the cool effrontery with which the actress would crush these waspish
women by creating a court of every eligible man in the place. It was not a healthy thought,
but it was the offspring of sheer vexation, and Helen experienced her second temptation that
day when de la Vere, the irresistible "Reginald" of Mrs. Vavasour's sketchy reminiscences,
came and asked her to dance.

She recognized him at once. He sat with Mrs. de la Vere at table, and never spoke to her unless
it was strictly necessary. He had distinguished manners, a pleasant voice, and a charming smile,
and he seemed to be the devoted slave of every pretty woman in the hotel except his wife.

"Please pardon the informality," he said, with an affability that cloaked the impertinence.
"We are quite a family party at Maloja. I hear you are staying here some weeks, and we are
bound to get to know each other sooner or later."

Helen could dance well. She was so mortified by the injustice meted out to her that she almost
accepted de la Vere's partnership on the spur of the moment. But her soul rebelled against
the man's covert insolence, and she said quietly:

"No, thank you. I do not care to dance."

"May I sit here and talk?" he persisted.

"I am just going," she said, "and I think Mrs. de la Vere is looking for you."

By happy chance the woman in question was standing alone in the center of the ball room, obviously
in quest of some man who would take her to the foyer for a cigarette. Helen retreated with
the honors of war; but the irresistible one only laughed.

"That idiot Georgie told the truth, then," he admitted. "And she knows what the other women
are saying. What cats these dear creatures can be, to be sure!"

Spencer happened to be an interested onlooker. Indeed, he was trying to arrive at the best
means of obtaining an introduction to Helen when he saw de la Vere stroll leisurely up to her
with the assured air of one sated by conquest. The girl brushed close to him as he stood in
the passage. She held her head high and her eyes were sparkling. He had not heard what was
said; but de la Vere's discomfiture was so patent that even his wife smiled as she sailed out
on the arm of a youthful purveyor of cigarettes.

Spencer longed for an opportunity to kick de la Vere; yet, in some sense, he shared that redoubtable
lady-killer's rebuff. He too was wondering if the social life of a Swiss hotel would permit
him to seek a dance with Helen. Under existing conditions, it would provide quite a humorous
episode, he told himself, to strike up a friendship with her. He could not imagine why she
had adopted such an aloof attitude toward all and sundry; but it was quite evident that she
declined anything in the guise of promiscuous acquaintance. And he, like her, felt lonely.
There were several Americans in the hotel, and he would probably meet some of the men in the
bar or smoking room after the dance was ended. But he would have preferred a pleasant chat
with Helen that evening, and now she had gone to her room in a huff.

Then an inspiration came to him. "Guess I'll stir up Mackenzie to send along an introduction,"
he said. "A telegram will fix things."

It was not quite so easy to explain matters in the curt language of the wire, he found, and
it savored of absurdity to amaze the beer-drinking Scot with a long message. So he compromised
between desire and expediency by a letter.

     "DEAR MR. MACKENZIE," he wrote, "life is not rapid at this
     terminus. It might take on some new features if I had the
     privilege of saying 'How de do' to Miss Wynton. Will you
     oblige me by telling her that one of your best and newest
     friends happens to be in the same hotel as her charming
     self, and that if she gets him to sparkle, he (which is I)
     will help considerable with copy for 'The Firefly.' Advise
     me by same post, and the rest of the situation is up to
     yours faithfully,

                              "C. K. S."

The letter was posted, and Spencer waited five tiresome days. He saw little or nothing of Helen
save at meals. Once he met her on a footpath that runs through a wood by the side of the lake
to the little hamlet of Isola, and he was minded to raise his hat, as he would have done to
any other woman in the hotel whom he encountered under similar circumstances; but she deliberately
looked away, and his intended courtesy must have passed unheeded.

As he sedulously avoided any semblance of dogging her footsteps, he could not know how she
was being persecuted by de la Vere, Vavasour, and one or two other men of like habit. That
knowledge was yet to come. Consequently he deemed her altogether too prudish, and was so out
of patience with her that he and Stampa went off for a two days' climb by way of the Muretto
Pass to Chiareggio and back to Sils-Maria over the Fex glacier.

Footsore and tired, but thoroughly converted to the marvels of the high Alps, he reached the
Kursaal side by side with the postman who brought the chief English mail about six o'clock
each evening.

He waited with an eager crowd of residents while the hall porter sorted the letters. There
were some for him from America, and one from London in a handwriting that was strange to him.
But he had quick eyes, and he saw that a letter addressed to Miss Helen Wynton, in the flamboyant
envelope of "The Firefly," bore the same script.

Mackenzie had risen to the occasion. He even indulged in a classical joke. "There is something
in the name of Helen that attracts," he said. "Were it not for the lady whose face drew a thousand
ships to Ilium, we should never have heard of Paris, or Troy, or the heel of Achilles, and
all these would be greatly missed."

"And I should never have heard of Mackenzie or Maloja," thought Spencer, sinking into a chair
and looking about to learn whether or not the girl would find her letter before he went to
dress for dinner. He was sure she knew his name. Perhaps when she read the editor's note, she
too would search the spacious lounge with those fine eyes of hers for the man described therein.
If that were so, he meant to go to her instantly, discuss the strangeness of the coincidence
that led to two of Mackenzie's friends being at the hotel at the same time, and suggest that
they should dine together.

The project seemed feasible, and it was decidedly pleasant in perspective. He longed to compare
notes with her,--to tell her the quaint stories of the hills related to him by Stampa in a
medley of English, French, Italian, and German; perhaps to plan delightful trips to the fairyland
in company.

People began to clear away from the hall porter's table; yet Helen remained invisible. He could
hardly have missed her; but to make certain he rose and glanced at the few remaining letters.
Yes, "The Firefly's" gaudy imprint still gleamed at him. He turned way, disappointed. After
his long tramp and a night in a weird Italian inn, a bath was imperative, and the boom of the
dressing gong was imminent.

He was crossing the hall toward the elevator when he heard her voice.

"I am so glad you are keen on an early climb," she was saying, with a new note of confidence
that stirred him strangely. "I have been longing to leave the sign boards and footpaths far
behind, but I felt rather afraid of going to the Forno for the first time with a guide. You
see, I know nothing about mountaineering, and you can put me up to all the dodges beforehand."

"Show you the ropes, in fact," agreed the man with her, Mark Bower.

Spencer was so completely taken by surprise that he could only stare at the two as though they
were ghosts. They had entered the hotel together, and had apparently been out for a walk. Helen
picked up her letter and held it carelessly in her hand while she continued to talk with Bower.
Her pleasurable excitement was undeniable. She regarded her companion as a friend, and was
evidently overjoyed at his presence. Spencer banged into the elevator, astonished the attendant
and two other occupants by the savagery of his command, "Au deuxième, vite!" and paced through
a long corridor with noisy clatter of hob-nailed boots.

He was in a rare fret and fume when he sat down to dinner alone. Bower was at Helen's table.
It was brightened by rare flowers not often seen in sterile Maloja. A bottle of champagne rested
in an ice bucket by his side. He had brought with him the atmosphere of London, of the pleasant
life that London offers to those who can buy her favors. Truly this Helen, all unconsciously,
had not only found the heel of a modern Achilles, but was wounding him sorely. For now Spencer
knew that he wanted to see her frank eyes smiling into his as they were smiling into Bower's,
and, no matter what turn events took, a sinister element had been thrust into a harmless idyl
by this man's arrival.

CHAPTER VII

SOME SKIRMISHING

Later, the American saw the two sitting in the hall. They were chatting with the freedom of
old friends. Helen's animated face showed that the subject of their talk was deeply interesting.
She was telling Bower of the slights inflicted on her by the other women; but Spencer interpreted
her intent manner as supplying sufficient proof of a stronger emotion than mere friendliness.
He was beginning to detest Bower.

It was his habit to decide quickly when two ways opened before him. He soon settled his course
now. To remain in the hotel under present conditions involved a loss of self respect, he thought.
He went to the bureau, asked for his account, and ordered a carriage to St. Moritz for the
morrow's fast train to England.

The manager was politely regretful. "You are leaving us at the wrong time, sir," he said. "Within
the next few days we ought to have a midsummer storm, when even the lower hills will be covered
with snow. Then, we usually enjoy a long spell of magnificent weather."

"Sorry," said Spencer. "I like the scramble up there," and he nodded in the direction of the
Bernina range, "and old Stampa is a gem of a guide; but I can hardly put off any longer some
business that needs attention in England. Anyhow, I shall come back, perhaps next month. Stampa
says it is all right here in September."

"Our best month, I assure you, and the ideal time to drop down into Italy when you are tired
of the mountains."

"I must let it go at that. I intend to fix Stampa so that he can remain here till the end of
the season. So you see I mean to return."

"He was very fortunate in meeting you, Mr. Spencer," said the manager warmly.

"Well, it is time he had a slice of luck. I've taken a fancy to the old fellow. One night,
in the Forno hut, he told me something of his story. I guess it will please him to stop at
the Maloja for awhile."

"He told you about his daughter?" came the tentative question.

"Not all. I am afraid there was no difficulty in filling in the blanks. I heard enough to make
me respect him and sympathize with his troubles."

The manager shook his head, with the air of one who recalls that which he would willingly have
forgotten. "Such incidents are rare in Switzerland," he said. "I well remember the sensation
her death created. She was such a pretty girl. The young men at Pontresina called her 'The
Edelweiss' because she was so inaccessible. In fact, poor Stampa had educated her beyond her
station, and that is not always good for a woman, especially in these quiet valleys, where
knowledge of cattle and garden produce is a better asset than speaking French and playing the
piano."

Spencer agreed. He could name other districts where the same rule held good. He stood for a
moment in the spacious hall to light a cigar. Involuntarily he glanced at Helen. She met his
gaze, and said something to Bower that caused the latter also to turn and look.

"She has read Mackenzie's letter," thought Spencer, taking refuge behind a cloud of smoke.
"It will be bad behavior on my part to leave the hotel without making my bow. Shall I go to
her now, or wait till morning?"

He reflected that Helen might be out early next day. If he presented his introduction at once,
she would probably ask him to sit with her a little while, and then he must become acquainted
with Bower. He disliked the notion; but he saw no way out of it, unless indeed Helen treated
him with the chilling abruptness she meted out to other men in the hotel who tried to become
friendly with her. He was weighing the pros and cons dispassionately, when the English chaplain
approached.

"Do you play bridge, Mr. Spencer?" he asked.

"I know the leads, and call 'without' on the least provocation," was the reply.

"You are the very man I am searching for, and I have the authority of the First Book of Samuel
in my quest."

"Well, now, that is the last place in which I should expect to find my bridge portrait."

"Don't you remember how Saul's servants asked his permission to 'seek out a man who is a cunning
player'? That is exactly what I am doing. Come to the smoking room. There are two other men
there, and one is a fellow countryman of yours."

The Rev. Mr. Hare was a genial soul, a Somersetshire vicar who took his annual holiday by accepting
a temporary position in some Alpine village where there was an English church. He did not dream
that he was acting the part of Hermes, messenger of the gods, at that moment, for indeed his
appearance on the scene just then changed the whole trend of Spencer's actions.

"What a delightful place this is!" he went on as they walked together through a long corridor.
"But what is the matter with the people? They don't mix. I would not have believed that there
were so many prigs in the British Isles."

Some such candid opinion had occurred to Spencer; but, being an American, he thought that perhaps
he might be mistaken. "The English character is somewhat adaptable to environment, I have heard.
That is why you send out such excellent colonists," he said.

"Doesn't that go rather to prove that everybody here should be hail fellow well met?"

"Not at all. They take their pose from the Alps,--snow, glaciers, hard rock, you know,--that
is the subtlety of it."

The vicar laughed. "You have given me a new point of view," he said. "Some of them are slippery
customers too. Yes, one might carry the parallel a long way. But here we are. Now, mind you
cut me as a partner. I have tried the others, and found them severely critical--as bridge players.
You look a stoic."

The vicar had his wish. Spencer and he opposed a man from Pittsburg, named Holt, and Dunston,
an Englishman.

While the latter was shuffling the cards for Hare's deal he said something that took one, at
least, of his hearers by surprise. "Bower has turned up, I see. What has brought him to the
Engadine at this time of year I can't guess, unless perhaps he is interested in a pretty face."

"At this time of the year," repeated Spencer. "Isn't this the season?"

"Not for him. He used to be a famous climber; but he has given it up since he waxed fat and
prosperous. I have met him once or twice at St. Moritz in the winter. Otherwise, he usually
shows up in the fashionable resorts in August,--Ostend, or Trouville, or, if he is livery,
Vichy or Aix-les-Bains,--anywhere but this quiet spot. Bower likes excitement too. He often
opens a thousand pound bank at baccarat, whereas people are shocked in Maloja at seeing Hare
play bridge at tenpence a hundred."

"I leave it, partner," broke in the vicar, to whom the game was the thing.

"No trumps," said Spencer, without giving the least heed to his cards. It was true his eyes
were resting on the ace, king, and queen of spades; but his mind was tortured by the belief
that by his fantastic conceit in sending Helen to this Alpine fastness he had delivered her
bound to the vultures.

"Double no trumps," said Dunston, gloating over the possession of a long suit of hearts and
three aces. Hare looked anxious, and Spencer suddenly awoke to the situation.

"Satisfied," he said.

Holt led the three of hearts, and Spencer spread his cards on the table with the gravity of
a Sioux chief. In addition to the three high spades he held six others.

"Really!" gasped the parson, "a most remarkable declaration!"

Yet there was an agitated triumph in his voice that was not pleasant hearing for Dunston, who
took the trick with the ace of hearts and led the lowest of a sequence to the queen.

"Got him!" panted Hare, producing the king.

The rest was easy. The vicar played a small spade and scored ninety-six points without any
further risk.

"It is magnificent; but it is not bridge," said the man from Pittsburg. Dunston simply glowered.

"Partner," demanded Hare timidly, "may I ask why you called 'no trumps' on a hand like that?"

"Thought I would give you a chance of distinguishing yourself," replied Spencer. "Besides,
that sort of thing rattles your opponents at the beginning of a game. Keep your nerve now,
padre, and you have 'em in a cleft stick."

As it happened, Holt made a "no trump" declaration on a very strong hand; but Spencer held
seven clubs headed by the ace and king.

He doubled. Holt redoubled. Spencer doubled again.

Hare flushed somewhat. "Allow me to say that I am very fond of bridge; but I cannot take part
in a game that savors of gambling, even for low stakes," he broke in.

"Shall we let her go at forty-eight points a trick?" Spencer asked.

"Yep!" snapped Holt. "Got all the clubs?"

"Not all--sufficient, perhaps."

He played the ace. Dunston laid the queen and knave on the table. Spencer scored the winning
trick before his adversary obtained an opening.

"You have a backbone of cast steel," commented Dunston, who was an iron-master. "Do you play
baccarat?" he went on, with curious eagerness.

"I regret to state that my education was completed in a Western mining camp."

"Will you excuse the liberty, and perhaps Mr. Hare won't listen for a moment?--but I will finance
you in three banks of a thousand each, either banking or punting, if you promise to take on
Bower. I can arrange it easily. I say this because you personally may not care to play for
high sums."

The suggestion was astounding, coming as it did from a stranger; but Spencer merely said:

"You don't like Bower, then?"

"That is so. I have business relations with him occasionally, and there he is all that could
be wished. But I have seen him clean out more than one youngster ruthlessly,--force the play
to too high stakes, I mean. I think you could take his measure. Anyhow, I am prepared to back you."

"I'm leaving here to-morrow."

"Ah, well, we may have another opportunity. If so, my offer holds."

"Guess you haven't heard that Spencer is the man who bored a tunnel through the Rocky Mountains?"
said Holt.

"No. You must tell me about it. Sorry, Mr. Hare, I am stopping the game."

Spencer continued to have amazing good fortune, and he played with skill, but without any more
fireworks. At the close of the sitting the vicar said cheerfully:

"You are not a ladies' man, Mr. Spencer. You know the old proverb,--lucky at cards, unlucky
in love? But let me hope that it does not apply in your case."

"Talking about a ladies' man, who is the girl your friend Bower dined with?" asked Holt. "She
has been in the hotel several days; but she didn't seem to be acquainted with anybody in particular
until he blew in this afternoon."

"She is a Miss Helen Wynton," said the vicar. "I like her very much from what little I have
seen of her. She attended both services on Sunday, and I happen to be aware of the fact that
she was at mass in the Roman church earlier. I wanted her to play the harmonium next Sunday;
but she declined, and gave me her reasons too."

"May I ask what they were?" inquired Spencer.

"Well, speaking in confidence, they were grievously true. Some miserable pandering to Mrs.
Grundy has set the other women against her; so she declined to thrust herself into prominence.
I tried to talk her out of it, but failed."

"Who is Mrs. Grundy, anyhow?" growled Holt.

The others laughed.

"She is the Medusa of modern life," explained the vicar. "She turns to stone those who gaze
on her. Most certainly she petrifies all good feeling and Christian tolerance. Why, I actually
heard a woman whose conduct is not usually governed by what I hold to be good taste sneer at
Miss Wynton this evening. 'The murder is out now,' she said. 'Bower's presence explains everything.'
Yet I am able to state that Miss Wynton was quite unprepared for his arrival. By chance I was
standing on the steps when he drove up to the hotel, and it was perfectly clear from the words
they used that neither was aware that the other was in Maloja."

Spencer leaned over toward the iron-master. "Tell you what," he said; "I've changed my mind
about the trip to England to-morrow. Get up that game with Bower. I'll stand the racket myself
unless you want to go half shares."

"Done! I should like to have an interest in it. Not that I am pining for Bower's money, and
it may be that he will win ours; but I am keen on giving him a sharp run. At Nice last January
not a soul in the Casino would go Banco when he opened a big bank. They were afraid of him."

While he was speaking, Dunston's shrewd eyes dwelt on the younger man's unmoved face. He wondered
what had caused this sudden veering of purpose. It was certainly not the allurement of heavy
gambling, for Spencer had declined the proposal as coolly as he now accepted it. Being a man
of the world, he thought he could peer beneath the mask. To satisfy himself, he harked back
to the personal topic.

"By the way, does anyone know who Miss Wynton is?" he said. "That inveterate gossip, Mrs. Vavasour,
who can vouch for every name in the Red Book, says she is a lady journalist."

"That, at any rate, is correct," said the vicar. "In fact, Miss Wynton herself told me so."

"Jolly fine girl, whatever she is. To give Bower his due, he has always been a person of taste."

"I have reason to believe," said Spencer, "that Miss Wynton's acquaintance with Mr. Bower is
of the slightest."

His words were slow and clear. Dunston, sure now that his guess was fairly accurate, hastened
to efface an unpleasant impression.

"Of course, I only meant that if Bower is seen talking to any woman, it may be taken for granted
that she is a pretty one," he explained. "But who's for a drink? Perhaps we shall meet our
expected opponent in the bar, Mr. Spencer."

"I have some letters to write. Fix that game for to-morrow or next day, and I'll be on hand."

Dunston and Holt paid the few shillings they owed, and went out.

Hare did not move. He looked anxious, almost annoyed. "It is exceedingly ridiculous how circumstances
pass beyond a man's control occasionally," he protested. "Am I right in assuming that until
this evening neither Bower nor Dunston was known to you, Mr. Spencer?"

"Absolutely correct, vicar. I have never yet spoken to Bower, and you heard all that passed
between Dunston and myself."

"Then my harmless invitation to you to join in a game at cards has led directly to an arrangement
for play at absurdly high figures?"

"It seems to me, Mr. Hare, that Bower's tracks and mine are destined to cross in more ways
than one in the near future," said Spencer coolly.

But the vicar was not to be switched away from the new thought that was troubling him. "I will
not ask what you mean," he said, gazing steadfastly at the American. "My chief concern is the
outcome of my share in this evening's pleasant amusement. I cannot shut my ears to the fact
that you have planned the loss or gain of some thousands of pounds on the turn of a card at
baccarat."

"If it is disagreeable to you----"

"How can it be otherwise? I am a broad-minded man, and I see no harm whatever in playing bridge
for pennies; but I am more pained than I care to confess at the prospect of such a sequel to
our friendly meeting to-night. If this thing happens,--if a small fortune is won or lost merely
to gratify Dunston's whim,--I assure you that I shall never touch a card again as long as I live."

Then Spencer laughed. "That would be too bad, Mr. Hare," he cried. "Make your mind easy. The
game is off. Count on me for the tenpence a hundred limit after dinner to-morrow."

"Now, that is quite good and kind of you. Dunston made me very miserable by his mad proposition.
Of course, both he and Bower are rich men, men to whom a few thousand pounds are of little
importance; or, to be accurate, they profess not to care whether they win or lose, though their
wealth is not squandered so heedlessly when it is wanted for some really deserving object.
But perhaps that is uncharitable. My only wish is to thank you from the bottom of my heart
for your generous promise."

"Is Bower so very rich then? Have you met him before?"

"He is a reputed millionaire. I read of him in the newspapers at times. In my small country
parish such financial luminaries twinkle from a far sky. It is true he is a recent light. He
made a great deal of money in copper, I believe."

"What kind of character do you give him,--good, bad, or indifferent?"

Hare's benevolent features showed the astonishment that thrilled him at this blunt question.
"I hardly know what to say----" he stammered.

Spencer liked this cheery vicar and resolved to trust him. "Let me explain," he said. "You
and I agree in thinking that Miss Wynton is an uncommonly nice girl. I am not on her visiting
list at present, so my judgment is altruistic. Suppose she was your daughter or niece, would
you care to see her left to that man's mercies?"

The clergyman fidgeted a little before he answered. Spencer was a stranger to him, yet he felt
drawn toward him. The strong, clear cut face won confidence. "If it was the will of Heaven,
I would sooner see her in the grave," he said, with solemn candor.

Spencer rose. He held out his hand. "I guess it's growing late," he cried, "and our talk has
swung round to a serious point. Sleep well, Mr. Hare. That game is dead off."

As he passed the bar he heard Bower's smooth, well rounded accents through the half-open door.
"Nothing I should like better," he was saying. "Are you tired? If not, bring your friend to
my rooms now. Although I have been in the train all night, I am fit as a fiddle."

"Let me see. I left him in the smoking room with our padre----"

It was Dunston who spoke; but Bower broke in:

"Oh, keep the clergy out of it! They make such a song about these things if they hear of them."

"I was going to say that if he is not there he will be in his room. He is two doors from me,
No. 61, I think. Shall I fetch him?"

"Do, by all means. By Jove! I didn't expect to get any decent play here!"

Spencer slipped into a small vestibule where he had left a hat and overcoat. He remained there
till Dunston crossed the hall and entered the elevator. Then he went out, meaning to stroll
and smoke in the moonlight for an hour. It would be easier to back out of the promised game
in the morning than at that moment. Moreover, in the clear, still air he could plan a course
of action, the need of which was becoming insistent.

He was blessed, or cursed, with a stubborn will, and he knew it. Hitherto, it had been exercised
on a theory wrapped in hard granite, and the granite had yielded, justifying the theory. Now
he was brought face to face with a woman's temperament, and his experience of that elusive
and complex mixture of attributes was of the slightest. Attractive young women in Colorado
are plentiful as cranberries; but never one of them had withdrawn his mind's eye from his work.
Why, then, was he so ready now to devote his energies to the safeguarding of Helen Wynton?
It was absurd to pretend that he was responsible for her future well-being because of the whim
that sent her on a holiday. She was well able to take care of herself. She had earned her own
living before he met her; she had risen imperiously above the petty malice displayed by some
of the residents in the hotel; there was a reasonable probability that she might become the
wife of a man highly placed and wealthy. Every consideration told in favor of a policy of non-interference.
The smoking of an inch of good cigar placed the matter in such a convincing light that Spencer
was half resolved to abide by his earlier decision and leave Maloja next morning.

But the other half, made up of inclination, pleaded against all the urging of expediency. He
deemed the vicar an honest man, and that stout-hearted phrase of his stuck. Yet, whether he
went or stayed, the ultimate solution of the problem lay with Helen herself. Once on speaking
terms with her, he could form a more decided view. It was wonderful how one's estimate of a
man or woman could be modified in the course of a few minutes' conversation. Well, he would
settle things that way, and meanwhile enjoy the beauty of a wondrous night.

A full moon was flooding the landscape with a brilliance not surpassed in the crystal atmosphere
of Denver. The snow capped summit of the Cima di Rosso was fit to be a peak in Olympus, a silver
throned height where the gods sat in council. The brooding pines perched on the hillside beyond
the Orlegna looked like a company of gigantic birds with folded wings. From the road leading
to the village he could hear the torrent itself singing its mad song of freedom after escaping
from the icy caverns of the Forno glacier. Quite near, on the right, the tiny cascade that
marks the first seaward flight of the Inn mingled its sweet melody with the orchestral thunder
of the more distant cataracts plunging down the precipices toward Italy. It was a night when
one might listen to the music of the spheres, and Spencer was suddenly jarred into unpleasant
consciousness of his surroundings by the raucous voices of some peasants bawling a Romansch
ballad in a wayside wine house.

Turning sharply on his heel, he took the road by the lake. There at least he would find peace
from the strenuous amours of Margharita as trolled by the revelers. He had not gone three hundred
yards before he saw a woman standing near the low wall that guarded the embanked highway from
the water. She was looking at the dark mirror of the lake, and seemed to be identifying the
stars reflected in it. Three or four times, as he approached, she tilted her head back and
gazed at the sky. The skirt of a white dress was visible below a heavy ulster; a knitted shawl
was wrapped loosely over her hair and neck, and the ends were draped deftly across her shoulders;
but before she turned to see who was coming along the road Spencer had recognized her. Thus,
in a sense, he was a trifle the more prepared of the two for this unforeseen meeting, and he
hailed it as supplying the answer to his doubts.

"Now," said he to himself, "I shall know in ten seconds whether or not I travel west by north
to-morrow."

Helen did not avert her glance instantly. Nor did she at once resume a stroll evidently interrupted
to take in deep breaths of the beauty of the scene. That was encouraging to the American,--she
expected him to speak to her.

He halted in the middle of the road. If he was mistaken, he did not wish to alarm her. "If
you will pardon the somewhat unorthodox time and place, I should like to make myself known
to you, Miss Wynton," he said, lifting his cap.

"You are Mr. Spencer?" she answered, with a frank smile.

"Yes, I have a letter of introduction from Mr. Mackenzie."

"So have I. What do we do next? Exchange letters? Mine is in the hotel."

"Suppose we just shake?"

"Well, that is certainly the most direct way."

Their hands met. They were both aware of a whiff of nervousness. For some reason, the commonplace
greetings of politeness fell awkwardly from their lips. In such a predicament a woman may always
be trusted to find the way out.

"It is rather absurd that we should be saying how pleased we are that Mr. Mackenzie thought
of writing those letters, while in reality I am horribly conscious that I ought not to be here
at all, and you are probably thinking that I am quite an amazing person," and Helen laughed
light heartedly.

"That is part of my thought," said Spencer.

"Won't you tell me the remainder?"

"May I?"

"Please do. I am in chastened mood."

"I wish I was skilled in the trick of words, then I might say something real cute. As it is,
I can only supply a sort of condensed statement,--something about a nymph, a moonlit lake,
the spirit of the glen,--nice catchy phrases every one,--with a line thrown in from Shelley
about an 'orbéd maiden with white fire laden.' Let me go back a hundred yards, Miss Wynton,
and I shall return with the whole thing in order."

"With such material I believe you would bring me a sonnet."

"No. I hail from the wild and woolly West, where life itself is a poem; so I stick to prose.
There is a queer sort of kink in human nature to account for that."

"On the principle that a Londoner never hears the roar of London, I suppose?"

"Exactly. An old lady I know once came across a remarkable instance of it. She watched a ship-wreck,
the real article, with all the scenic accessories, and when a half drowned sailor was dragged
ashore she asked him how he felt at that awful moment. And what do you think he said?"

"Very wet," laughed Helen.

"No, that is the other story. This man said he was very dry."

"Ah, the one step from the sublime to the ridiculous, which reminds me that if I remain here
much longer talking nonsense I shall lose the good opinion I am sure you have formed of me
from Mr. Mackenzie's letter. Why, it must be after eleven o'clock! Are you going any farther,
or will you walk with me to the hotel?"

"If you will allow me----"

"Indeed, I shall be very glad of your company. I came out to escape my own thoughts. Did you
ever meet such an unsociable lot of people as our fellow boarders, Mr. Spencer? If it was not
for my work, and the fact that I have taken my room for a month, I should hie me forthwith
to the beaten track of the vulgar but good natured tourist."

"Why not go? Let me help you to-morrow to map out a tour. Then I shall know precisely where
to waylay you, for I feel the chill here too."

"I wish I could fall in with the first part of your proposal, though the second rather suggests
that you regard Mr. Mackenzie's letter of introduction as a letter of marque."

"At any rate, I am an avowed pirate," he could not help retorting. "But to keep strictly to
business, why not quit if you feel like wandering?"

"Because I was sent here, on a journalistic mission which I understand less now than when I
received it in London. Of course, I am delighted with the place. It is the people I--kick at?
Is that a quite proper Americanism?"

"It seems to fit the present case like a glove, or may I say, like a shoe?"

"Now you are laughing at me, inwardly of course, and I agree with you. Ladies should not use
slang, nor should they promenade alone in Swiss valleys by moonlight. My excuse is that I did
not feel sleepy, and the moon tempted me. Good night."

They were yet some little distance from the hotel, and Spencer was at a loss to account for
this sudden dismissal. She saw the look of bewilderment in his face.

"I have found a back stairs door," she explained, with a smile. "I really don't think I should
have dared to come out at half-past ten if I had to pass the Gorgons in the foyer."

She flitted away by a side path, leaving Spencer more convinced than ever that he had blundered
egregiously in dragging this sedate and charming girl from the quiet round of existence in
London to the artificial life of the Kursaal. Some feeling of unrest had driven her forth to
commune with the stars. Was she asking herself why she was denied the luxuries showered on
the doll-like creatures whose malicious tongues were busy the instant Bower set foot in the
hotel? It would be an ill outcome of his innocent subterfuge if she returned to England discontented
and rebellious. She was in "chastened mood," she had said. He wondered why? Had Bower been
too confident,--too sure of his prey to guard his tongue? Of all the unlooked for developments
that could possibly be bound up with the harmless piece of midsummer madness that sent Helen
Wynton to Switzerland, surely this roué's presence was the most irritating and perplexing.

Then from the road came another stanza from the wine bibbers, now homeward bound. They were
still howling about Margharita in long sustained cadences. And Spencer knew his Faust. It was
to the moon that the lovesick maiden confided her dreams, and Mephisto was at hand to jog the
elbow of his bewitched philosopher at exactly the right moment.

Spencer threw his cigar into the gurgling rivulet of the Inn. He condemned Switzerland, and
the Upper Engadine, and the very great majority of the guests in the Kursaal, in one emphatic
malediction, and went to his room, hoping to sleep, but actually to lie awake for hours and
puzzle his brains in vain effort to evolve a satisfying sequel to the queer combination of
events he had set in motion when he ran bare headed into the Strand after Bower's motor car.

CHAPTER VIII

SHADOWS

"It is a glorious morning. If the weather holds, your first visit to the real Alps should be
memorable," said Bower.

Helen had just descended the long flight of steps in front of the hotel. A tender purple light
filled the valley. The nearer hills were silhouetted boldly against a sky of primrose and pink;
but the misty depths where the lake lurked beneath the pines had not yet yielded wholly to
the triumph of the new day. The air had a cold life in it that invigorated while it chilled.
It resembled some vin frappé of rare vintage. Its fragrant vivacity was ready to burst forth
at the first encouraging hint of a kindlier temperature.

"Why that dubious clause as to the weather?" asked Helen, looking at the golden shafts of sunlight
on the topmost crags of Corvatsch and the Piz della Margna. Those far off summits were so startlingly
vivid in outline that they seemed to be more accessible than the mist shrouded ravines cleaving
their dun sides. It needed an effort of the imagination to correct the erring testimony of the eye.

"The moods of the hills are variable, my lady,--femininely fickle, in fact. There is a proverb
that contrasts the wind with woman's mind; but the disillusioned male who framed it evidently
possessed little knowledge of weather changes in the high Alps, or else he----"

"Did you beguile me out of my cozy room at six o'clock on a frosty morning to regale me with
stale jibes at my sex?"

"Perish the thought, Miss Wynton! My only intent was to explain that the ancient proverb maker,
meaning to be rude, might have found a better simile."

"Meanwhile, I am so cold that the only mood left in my composition is one of impatience to
be moving."

"Well, I am ready."

"But where is our guide?"

"He has gone on in front with the porter."

"Porter! What is the man carrying?"

"The wherewithal to refresh ourselves when we reach the hut."

"Oh," said Helen, "I had no idea that mountaineering was such a business. I thought the essentials
were a packet of sandwiches and a flask."

"You will please not be flippant. Climbing is serious work. And you must moderate your pace.
If you walk at that rate from here to Forno, you will be very, very ill before you reach the hut."

"Ill! How absurd!"

"Not only absurd but disagreeable,--far worse than crossing the Channel. Even old hands like
me are not free from mountain sickness, though it seizes us at higher altitudes than we shall
reach to-day. In the case of a novice, anything in the nature of hurrying during the outward
journey is an unfailing factor."

They were crossing the golf links, and the smooth path was tempting to a good walker. Helen
smiled as she accommodated herself to Bower's slower stride. Though the man might possess experience,
the woman had the advantage of youth, the unattainable, and this wonderful hour after dawn
was stirring its ichor in her veins.

"I suppose that is what Stampa meant when he took 'Slow and Sure' for his motto," she said.

"Stampa! Who is Stampa?"

There was a sudden rasp of iron in his voice. As a rule Bower spoke with a cultivated languor
that almost veiled the staccato accents of the man of affairs. Helen was so surprised by this
unwarranted clang of anger that she looked at him with wide open eyes.

"He is the driver I told you of, the man who took the wheel off my carriage during the journey
from St. Moritz," she explained.

"Oh, of course. How stupid of me to forget! But, by the way, did you mention his name?"

"No, I think not. Someone interrupted me. Mr. Dunston came and spoke to you----"

He laughed gayly and drew in deep breaths of the keen air. He was carrying his ice ax over
his left shoulder. With his right hand he brushed away a disturbing thought. "By Jove! yes!
Dunston dragged me off to open a bank at baccarat, and you will be glad to hear that I won
five hundred pounds."

"I am glad you won; but who lost so much money?"

"Dunston dropped the greater part of it. Your American friend, Mr. Spencer, was rather inclined
to brag of his prowess in that direction, it appears. He even went so far as to announce his
willingness to play for four figures; but he backed out of it."

"Do you mean that Mr. Spencer wanted to stake a thousand pounds on a single game at cards?"

"Evidently he did not want to do it, but he talked about it."

"Yet he impressed me as being a very clear-headed and sensible young man," said Helen decisively.

"Here, young lady, I must call you to account! In what category do you place me, then?"

"Oh, you are different. I disapprove of anyone playing for such high stakes; but I suppose
you are used to it and can afford it, whereas a man who has his way to make in the world would
be exceedingly foolish to do such a thing."

"Pray, how did you come to measure the extent of Spencer's finances?"

"Dear me! Did I say that?"

"I am sorry. Of course, I had no wish to speak offensively. What I mean is that he may be quite
as well able to run a big bank at baccarat as I am."

"He was telling me yesterday of his early struggles to gain a footing in some mining community
in Colorado, and the impression his words left on me was that he is still far from wealthy;
that is, as one understands the term. Here we are at the footpath. Shall we follow it and scramble
up out of the ravine, or do you prefer the carriage road?"

"The footpath, please. But before we drop the subject of cards, which is unquestionably out
of place on a morning like this, let me say that perhaps I have done the American an injustice.
Dunston is given to exaggeration. He has so little control over his face that it is rank robbery
to bet with him. Such a man is apt to run to extremes. It may be that Spencer was only talking
through his hat, as they say in New York."

Helen had the best of reasons for rejecting this version of the story. Her perceptive faculties,
always well developed, were strung to high tension in Maloja. The social pinpricks inflicted
there had rendered her more alert, more cautious, than was her wont. She was quite sure, for
instance, judging from a number of slight indications, that Spencer was deliberately avoiding
any opportunity of making Bower's acquaintance. More than once, when an introduction seemed
to be imminent, the American effaced himself. Other men in the hotel were not like that--they
rather sought the great man's company. She wondered if Bower had noticed it. Despite his candid,
almost generous, disclaimer of motive, there was an undercurrent of hostility in his words
that suggested a feeling of pique. She climbed the rocky path in silence until Bower spoke again.

"How do the boots go?" he asked.

"Splendidly, thanks. It was exceedingly kind of you to take such trouble about them. I had
no idea one had to wear such heavy nails, and that tip of yours about the extra stockings is
excellent."

"You will acknowledge the benefit most during the descent. I have known people become absolutely
lame on the home journey through wearing boots only just large enough for ordinary walking.
As for the clamping of the nails over the edges of the soles, the sharp stones render that
imperative. When you have crossed a moraine or two, and a peculiarly nasty geröll that exists
beyond the hut, if we have time to make an easy ascent, you will understand the need of extra
strong footwear."

Helen favored him with a shy smile. "Long hours of reading have revealed the nature of a moraine,"
she said; "but, please, what is a geröll?"

"A slope of loose stones. Let me see, what do they call it in Scotland and Cumberland? Ah,
yes, a scree. On the French side of the Alps the same thing is known as a casse."

"How well you know this country and its ways! Have you climbed many of the well known peaks?"

"Some years ago I scored my century beyond twelve thousand feet. That is pretty fair for an
amateur."

"Have you done the Matterhorn?"

"Yes, four times. Once I followed Tyndall's example, and converted the summit into a pass between
Switzerland and Italy."

"How delightful! I suppose you have met many of the famous guides?"

He laughed pleasantly. "One does not attempt the Cervin or the Jungfrau without the best men,
and in my time there were not twenty, all told. I had a long talk with our present guide last
night, and found I had used many a track he had only seen from the valley."

"Then----"

A loud toot on a cowhorn close at hand interrupted her. The artist was a small boy. He appeared
to be waiting expectantly on a hillock for someone who came not.

"Is that a signal?" she asked.

"Yes. He is a gaumer, or cowherd,--another word for your Alpine vocabulary,--the burgher whose
cattle he will drive to the pasture has probably arranged to meet him here."

Bower was always an interesting and well informed companion. Launched now into a congenial
topic, he gave Helen a thoroughly entertaining lecture on the customs of a Swiss commune. He
pointed out the successive tiers of pastures, told her their names and seasons of use, and
even hummed some verses of the cow songs, or Kuh-reihen, which the men sing to the cattle,
addressing each animal by name.

An hour passed pleasantly in this manner. Their guide, a man named Josef Barth, and the porter,
who answered to "Karl," awaited them at the milk chalet by the side of Lake Cavloccio. Bower,
evidently accustomed to the leadership of expeditions of this sort, tested their ice axes and
examined the ropes slung to Barth's rucksack.

"The Forno is a glacier de luxe," he explained to Helen; "but it is always advisable to make
sure that your appliances are in good order. That pickel you are carrying was made by the best
blacksmith in Grindelwald, and you can depend on its soundness; but these men are so familiar
with their surroundings that they often provide themselves with frayed ropes and damaged axes."

"In addition to my boots, therefore, I am indebted to you for a special brand of ice ax," she
cried.

"Your gratitude now is as nothing to the ecstasy you will display when Karl unpacks his load,"
he answered lightly. "Now, Miss Wynton, en route! You know the path to the glacier already,
don't you?"

"I have been to its foot twice."

"Then you go in front. There is no room to walk two abreast. Before we tackle the ice we will
call a halt for refreshments."

From that point till the glacier was reached the climb was laboriously simple. There was no
difficulty and not the slightest risk, even for a child; but the heavy gradient and the rarefied
air made it almost impossible to sustain a conversation unless the speakers dawdled. Helen
often found herself many yards in advance of the others. She simply could not help breasting
the steeper portions of the track. She was drawn forward by an intense eagerness to begin the
real business of the day. Bower did not seek to restrain her. He thought her high spirits admirable,
and his gaze dwelt appreciatively on her graceful poise as she stopped on the crest of some
small ravine and looked back at the plodders beneath. Attractive at all times, she was bewitching
that morning to a man who prided himself on his athletic tastes. She wore a white knitted jersey
and a short skirt, a costume seemingly devised to reveal the lines of a slender waist and supple
limbs. A white Tam o' Shanter was tied firmly over her glossy brown hair with a silk motor
veil, and the stout boots which she had surveyed so ruefully when Bower brought them to her
on the previous evening after interviewing the village shoemaker, were by no means so cumbrous
in use as her unaccustomed eyes had deemed them. Even the phlegmatic guide was stirred to gruff
appreciation when he saw her vault on to a large flat boulder in order to examine an iron cross
that surmounted it.

"Ach, Gott!" he grunted, "that Englishwoman is as surefooted as a chamois."

But Helen had found a name and a date on a triangular strip of metal attached to the cross.
"Why has this memorial been placed here?" she asked. Bower appealed to Barth; but he shook
his head. Karl gave details.

"A man fell on the Cima del Largo. They carried him here, and he died on that rock."

"Poor fellow!" Some of the joyous light left Helen's face. She had passed the cross before,
and had regarded it as one of the votive offerings so common by the wayside in Catholic countries,
knowing that in this part of Switzerland the Italian element predominated among the peasants.

"We get a fine view of the Cima del Largo from the cabane," said Bower unconcernedly.

Helen picked a little blue flower that nestled at the base of the rock. She pinned it to her
jersey without comment. Sometimes the callousness of a man was helpful, and the shadow of a
bygone tragedy was out of keeping with the glow of this delightful valley.

The curving mass of the glacier was now clearly visible. It looked like some marble staircase
meant to be trodden only by immortals. Ever broadening and ascending until it filled the whole
width of the rift between the hills, it seemed to mount upward to infinity. The sidelong rays
of the sun, peeping over the shoulders of Forno and Roseg, tinted the great ice river with
a sapphire blue, while its higher reaches glistened as though studded with gigantic diamonds.
Near at hand, where the Orlegna rushed noisily from thraldom, the broken surface was somber
and repellent. In color a dull gray, owing to the accumulation of winter débris and summer
dust, it had the aspect of decay and death; it was jagged and gaunt and haggard; the far flung
piles of the white moraine imposed a stony barrier against its farther progress. But that unpleasing
glimpse of disruption was quickly dispelled by the magnificent volume and virgin purity of
the glacier as a whole. Helen tried to imagine herself two miles distant, a tiny speck on the
great floor of the pass. That was the only way to grasp its stupendous size, though she knew
that it mounted through five miles of rock strewn ravine before it touched the precipitous
saddle along which runs the border line between Italy and Switzerland.

Karl's sigh of relief as he deposited his heavy load on a tablelike boulder brought Helen back
from the land of dreams. To this sturdy peasant the wondrous Forno merely represented a day's
hard work, at an agreed sum of ten francs for carrying nearly half a hundredweight, and a liberal
pour-boire if the voyageurs were satisfied.

Sandwiches and a glass of wine, diluted with water brought by the guide from a neighboring
rill,--glacier water being used only as a last resource,--were delectable after a steady two
hours' walk. The early morning meal of coffee and a roll had lost some of its flavor when consumed
apparently in the middle of the night, and Helen was ready now for her breakfast. While they
were eating, Bower and Josef Barth cast glances at some wisps of cloud drifting slowly over
the crests of the southern hills. Nothing was said. The guide read his patron's wishes correctly.
Unless some cause far more imperative than a slight mist intervened, the day's programme must
not be abandoned. So there was no loitering. The sun was almost in the valley, and the glacier
must be crossed before the work of the night's frost was undone.

When they stepped from the moraine on to the ice Barth led, Helen followed, Bower came next,
with Karl in the rear.

If it had not been for the crisp crunching sound of the hobnails amid the loose fragments on
the surface, and the ring of the pickel's steel-shod butt on the solid mass beneath, Helen
might have fancied that she was walking up an easy rock-covered slope. Any delusion on that
point, however, was promptly dispelled by a glimpse of a narrow crevasse that split the foot
of the glacier lengthwise.

She peered into its sea-green depths awesomely. It resembled a toothless mouth gaping slowly
open, ready enough to swallow her, but too inert to put forth the necessary effort. And the
thought reminded her of something. She halted and turned to Bower.

"Ought we not to be roped?" she asked.

He laughed, with the quiet confidence of the expert mountaineer. "Why?" he cried. "The way
is clear. One does not walk into a crevasse with one's eyes open."

"But Stampa told me that I should refuse to advance a yard on ice or difficult rock without
being roped."

"Stampa, your cab driver?"

There was no reason that she could fathom why her elderly friend's name should be repeated
with such scornful emphasis.

"Ah, yes. He is that because he is lame," she protested. "But he was one of the most famous
guides in Zermatt years ago."

She swung round and appealed to Barth, who was wondering why his employers were stopping before
they had climbed twenty feet. "Are you from Zermatt?" she demanded.

"No, fräulein--from Pontresina. Zermatt is a long way from here."

"But you know some of the Zermatt men, I suppose? Have you ever heard of Christian Stampa?"

"Most certainly, fräulein. My father helped him to build the first hut on the Hörnli Ridge."

"Old Stampa!" chimed in Karl from beneath. "It will be long ere he is forgotten. I was one
of four who carried him down from Corvatsch to Sils-Maria the day after he fell. He was making
the descent by night,--a mad thing to do,--and there was murder in his heart, they said. But
I never believed it. We shared a bottle of Monte Pulciano only yesterday, just for the sake
of old times, and he was as merry as Hans von Rippach himself."

Bower was stooping, so Helen could not see his face. He seemed to be fumbling with a boot lace.

"You hear, Mr. Bower?" she cried. "I am quoting no mean authority."

He did not answer. He had untied the lace and was readjusting it. The girl realized that to
a man of his portly build his present attitude was not conducive to speech. It had an additional
effect which did not suggest itself to her. The effort thus demanded from heart and lungs might
bring back the blood to a face blanched by a deadly fear.

Karl was stocked with reminiscences of Stampa. "I remember the time when people said Christian
was the best man in the Bernina," he said. "He would never go back to the Valais after his
daughter died. It was a strange thing that he should come to grief on a cowherd's track like
that over Corvatsch. But Etta's affair----"

"Schweige!" snarled Bower, straightening himself suddenly. His dark eyes shot such a gleam
of lambent fury at the porter that the man's jaw fell. The words were frozen on his lips. He
could not have been stricken dumb more effectually had he come face to face with one of the
horrific sprites described in the folklore of the hills.

Helen was surprised. What had poor Karl done that he should be bidden so fiercely to hold his
tongue? Then she thought that Bower must have recalled Stampa's history, and feared that perhaps
the outspoken peasant might enter into a piquant account of some village scandal. A chambermaid
in the hotel, questioned about Stampa, had told her that the daughter he loved so greatly had
committed suicide. Really, she ought to be grateful to her companion for saving her from a
passing embarrassment. But she had the tact not to drop the subject too quickly.

"If Barth and you agree that roping is unnecessary, of course I haven't a word to say in the
matter," she volunteered. "It was rather absurd of me to mention it in the first instance."

"No, you were right. I have never seen Stampa; but his name is familiar. It occurs in most
Alpine records. Barth, fix the rope before we go farther. The fräulein wishes it."

The rush of color induced by physical effort--effort of a tensity that Helen was wholly unaware
of--was ebbing now before a numbing terror that had come to stay. His face was drawn and livid.
His voice had the metallic ring in it that the girl had detected once already that day. Again
she experienced a sense of bewilderment that he should regard a trivial thing so seriously.
She was not a child. The world of to-day pulsated with far too many stories of tragic passion
that she should be shielded so determinedly from any hint of an episode that doubtless wrung
the heart's core of this quiet valley one day in August sixteen years ago. In some slight degree
Bower's paroxysm of anger was a reflection on her own good taste, for she had unwittingly given
rise to it.

Nevertheless, she felt indebted to him. To extricate both Bower and herself from an awkward
situation she took a keen interest in Barth's method of adjusting the rope. The man did not
show any amazement at Bower's order. He was there to earn his fee. Had these mad English told
him to cut steps up the gentle slope in front he would have obeyed without protest, though
it was more than strange that this much traveled voyageur should adopt such a needless precaution.

As a matter of fact, under Barth's guidance, a blind cripple could have surmounted the first
kilometer of the Forno glacier. The track lay close to the left bank of the moraine. It curved
slightly to the right and soon the exquisite panorama of Monte Roseg, the Cima di Rosso, Monte
Sissone, Piz Torrone, and the Castello group opened up before the climbers. Helen was enchanted.
Twice she half turned to address some question to Bower; but on each occasion she happened
to catch him in the act of swallowing some brandy from a flask. Governed by an unaccountable
timidity, she pretended not to notice his actions, and diverted her words to Barth, who told
her the names of the peaks and pointed to the junctions of minor ice fields with the main artery
of the Forno.

Bower did not utter a syllable until they struck out toward the center of the glacier. A crevasse
some ten feet in width and seemingly hundreds of feet deep, barred the way; but a bridge of
ice, covered with snow, offered safe transit. The snow carpet showed that a number of climbers
had passed quite recently in both directions. Even Helen, somewhat awed by the dimensions of
the rift, understood that the existence of this natural arch was as well recognized by Alpinists
as Waterloo Bridge is known to dwellers on the south side of the Thames.

"Now, Miss Wynton, you should experience your first real thrill," said Bower. "This bridge
forms here every year at this season, and an army might cross in safety. It is the genuine
article, the first and strongest of a series. Yet here you cross the Rubicon. A mixture of
metaphors is allowable in high altitudes, you know."

Helen, almost startled at first by the unaffected naturalness of his words, was unfeignedly
relieved at finding him restored to the normal. Usually his supply of light-hearted badinage
was unceasing. He knew exactly when and how to season it with more serious statements. It is
this rare quality that makes tolerable a long day's solitude à deux.

"I am not Cæsar's wife," she replied; "but for the credit of womankind in general I shall act
as though I was above suspicion--of nervousness."

She did not look round. Barth was moving quickly, and she had no desire to burden him with
a drag on the rope. When she was in the center of the narrow causeway, a snow cornice in the
lip of the crevasse detached itself under the growing heat of the sun and shivered down into
the green darkness. The incident brought her heart into her mouth. It served as a reminder
that this solid ice river was really in a state of constant change and movement.

Bower laughed, with all his customary gayety of manner. "That came at a dramatic moment," he
said. "Too bad it could not let you pass without giving you a quake!"

"I am not a bit afraid."

"Ah, but I can read your thoughts. There is a bond of sympathy between us."

"Hemp is a non-conductor."

"You are willfully misunderstanding me," he retorted.

"No. I honestly believed you felt the rope quiver a little."

"Alas! it is the atmosphere. My compliments fall on idle ears."

Barth interrupted this play of harmless chaff by jerking some remark over his shoulder. "Looks
like a guxe," he said gruffly.

"Nonsense!" said Bower,--"a bank of mist. The sun will soon melt it."

"It's a guxe, right enough," chimed in Karl, who had recovered his power of speech. "That is
why the boy was blowing his horn--to show he was bringing the cattle home."

"Well, then, push on. The sooner we are in the hut the better."

"Please, what is a guxe?" asked Helen, when the men had nothing more to say.

"A word I would have wished to add later to your Alpine phrase book. It means a storm, a blizzard."

"Should we not return at once in that event?"

"What? Who said just now she was not afraid?"

"But a storm in such a place!"

"These fellows smell a tourmente in every little cloud from the southwest. We may have some
wind and a light snowfall, and that will be an experience for you. Surely you can trust me
not to run any real risk?"

"Oh, yes. I do, indeed. But I have read of people being caught in these storms and suffering
terribly."

"Not on the Forno, I assure you. I don't wish to minimize the perils of your first ascent;
but it is only fair to say that this is an exhibition glacier. If it was nearer town you would
find an orchestra in each amphitheater up there, with sideshows in every couloir. Jesting apart,
you are absolutely safe with Barth and me, not to mention the irrepressible gentleman who carries
our provisions."

Helen was fully alive to the fact that a woman who joins a mountaineering party should not
impose her personal doubts on men who are willing to go on. She flourished her ice ax bravely,
and cried, "Excelsior!"

In the next instant she regretted her choice of expression. The moral of Longfellow's poem
might be admirable, but the fate of its hero was unpleasantly topical. Again Bower laughed.

"Ah!" he said. "Will you deny now that I am a first rate receiver of wireless messages?"

She had no breath left for a quip. Barth was hurrying, and the thin air was beginning to have
its effect. When an unusually smooth stretch of ice permitted her to take her eyes from the
track for a moment she looked back to learn the cause of such haste. To her complete astonishment,
the Maloja Pass and the hills beyond it were dissolved in a thick mist. A monstrous cloud was
sweeping up the Orlegna Valley. As yet, it was making for the Muretto Pass rather than the
actual ravine of the Forno; but a few wraiths of vapor were sailing high overhead, and it needed
no weatherwise native to predict that ere long the glacier itself would be covered by that
white pall. She glanced at Bower.

He smiled cheerfully. "It is nothing," he murmured.

"I really don't care," she said. "One does not shirk an adventure merely because it is disagreeable.
The pity is that all this lovely sunshine must vanish."

"It will reappear. You will be charmed with the novelty in an hour or less."

"Is it far to the hut?"

"Hardly twenty minutes at our present pace."

A growl from Barth stopped their brief talk. Another huge crevasse yawned in front. There was
an ice bridge, with snow, like others they had crossed; but this was a slender structure, and
the leader stabbed it viciously with the butt of his ax before he ventured on it. The others
kept the rope taut, and he crossed safely. They followed. As Helen gained the further side
she heard Bower's chuckle:

"Another thrill!"

"I am growing quite used to them," she said.

"Well, it may help somewhat if I tell you that the temporary departure of the sun will cause
this particular bridge to be ten times as strong when we return."

"Attention!" cried Barth, taking a sharp turn to the left. The meaning of his warning was soon
apparent. They had to descend a few feet of rough ice, and Helen found, to her great relief
it must be confessed, that they were approaching the lateral moraine. Already the sky was overcast.
The glacier had taken to itself a cold grayness that was disconcerting. The heavy mist fell
on them with inconceivable rapidity. Shining peaks and towering precipices of naked rock were
swept out of sight each instant. The weather had changed with a magical speed. The mist advanced
with the rush of an express train, and a strong wind sprang up as though it had burst through
a restraining wall and was bent on overwhelming the daring mortals who were penetrating its
chosen territory.

Somehow--anyhow--Helen scrambled on. She was obliged to keep eyes and mind intent on each step.
Her chief object was to imitate Barth, to poise, and jump, and clamber with feet and hands
exactly as he did. At this stage the rope was obviously a hindrance; but none of the men suggested
its removal, and Helen had enough to occupy her wits without troubling them by a question.
Even in the stress of her own breathless exertions she had room in her mind for a wondering
pity for the heavily laden Karl. She marveled that anyone, be he strong as Samson, could carry
such a load and not fall under it. Yet he was lumbering along behind Bower with a clumsy agility
that was almost supernatural to her thinking. She was still unconscious of the fact that most
of her own struggles were due more to the rarefied air than to the real difficulties of the route.

At last, when she really thought she must cry out for a rest, when a steeper climb than any
hitherto encountered had bereft her almost of the power to take another upward spring to the
ledge of some enormous boulder, when her knees and ankles were sore and bruised, and the skin
of her fingers was beginning to fray under her stout gloves, she found herself standing on
a comparatively level space formed of broken stones. A rough wall, surmounted by a flat pitched
roof, stared at her out of the mist. In the center of the wall a small, square, shuttered window
suggested a habitation. Her head swam, and her eyes ached dreadfully; but she knew that this
was the hut, and strove desperately to appear self possessed.

"Accept my congratulations, Miss Wynton," said a low voice at her ear. "Not one woman in a
thousand would have gone through that last half-hour without a murmur. You are no longer a
novice. Allow me to present you with the freedom of the Alps. This is one of the many châteaux
at your disposal."

A wild swirl of sleet lashed them venomously. This first whip of the gale seemed to have the
spitefulness of disappointed rage.

Helen felt her arm grasped. Bower led her to a doorway cunningly disposed out of the path of
the dreaded southwest wind. At that instant all the woman in her recognized that the man was
big, and strong, and self reliant, and that it was good to have him near, shouting reassuring
words that were whirled across the rock-crowned glacier by the violence of the tempest.

CHAPTER IX

"ETTA'S FATHER"

Though the hut was a crude thing, a triumph of essentials over luxuries, Helen had never before
hailed four walls and a roof with such heartfelt, if silent, thanksgiving. She sank exhausted
on a rough bench, and watched the matter-of-fact Engadiners unpacking the stores and firewood
carried in their rucksacks. Their businesslike air supplied the tonic she needed. Though the
howling storm seemed to threaten the tiny refuge with destruction, these two men set to work,
coolly and methodically, to prepare a meal. Barth arranged the contents of Karl's bulky package
on a small table, and the porter busied himself with lighting a fire in a Swiss stove that
stood in the center of the outer room. An inner apartment loomed black and uninviting through
an open doorway. Helen discovered later that some scanty accommodation was provided there for
those who meant to sleep in the hut in readiness for an early ascent, while it supplied a separate
room in the event of women taking part in an expedition.

Bower offered her a quantity of brandy and water. She declined it, declaring that she needed
only time to regain her breath. He was a man who might be trusted not to pester anyone with
well meant but useless attentions. He went to the door, lit a cigarette, and seemed to be keenly
interested in the sleet as it pelted the moraine or gathered in drifts in the minor fissures
of the glacier.

Within a remarkably short space of time, Karl had concocted two cups of steaming coffee. Helen
was then all aglow. Her strength was restored. The boisterous wind had crimsoned her cheeks
beneath the tan. She had never looked such a picture of radiant womanhood as after this tussle
with the storm. Luckily her clothing was not wet, since the travelers reached the cabane at
the very instant the elements became really aggressive. It was a quite composed and reinvigorated
Helen who summoned Bower from his contemplation of the weather portents.

"We may be besieged," she cried; "but at any rate we are not on famine rations. What a spread!
You could hardly have brought more food if you fancied we might be kept here a week."

The sustained physical effort called for during the last part of the climb seemed to have dispelled
his fit of abstraction. Being an eminently adaptable man, he responded to her mood. "Ah, that
sounds more like the enthusiast who set forth so gayly from the Kursaal this morning," he answered,
pulling the door ajar before he took a seat by her side on the bench. "A few minutes ago you
were ready to condemn me as several kinds of idiot for going on in the teeth of our Switzers'
warnings. Now, confess!"

"I don't think I could have climbed another ten yards," she admitted.

"Our haste was due to Barth's anxiety. He wanted to save you from a drenching. It was a near
thing, and with the thermometer falling a degree a minute soaked garments might have brought
very unpleasant consequences. But that was our only risk. Old mountaineer as I am, I hardly
expected such a blizzard in August, after such short notice too. Otherwise, now that we are
safely housed, you are fortunate in securing a memorable experience. The storm will soon blow
over; but it promises to be lively while it lasts."

Helen was sipping her coffee. Perhaps her eyes conveyed the question her tongue hesitated to
utter. Bower smiled pleasantly, and gesticulated with hands and shoulders in a way that was
foreign to his studiously cultivated English habit of repose. Indeed, with his climber's garb
he seemed to have acquired a new manner. There was a perplexing change in him since the morning.

"Yes," he said. "I understand perfectly. You and I might sing lieder ohne worte, Miss Wynton.
I have known these summer gales to last four days; but pray do not be alarmed," for Helen nearly
dropped her cup in quick dismay; "my own opinion is that we shall have a delightful afternoon.
Of course, I am a discredited prophet. Ask Barth."

The guide, hearing his name mentioned, glanced at them, though he was engaged at the moment
in taking the wrappings off a quantity of bread, cold chicken, and slices of ham and beef.
He agreed with Bower. The barometer stood high when they left the hotel. He thought, as all
men think who live in the open, that "the sharper the blast the sooner it's past."

"Moreover," broke in Karl, who refused to be left out of the conversation, "Johann Klucker's
cat was sitting with its back to the stove last evening."

This bit of homely philosophy brought a ripple of laughter from Helen, whereupon Karl explained.

"Cats are very wise, fräulein. Johann Klucker's cat is old. Therefore she is skilled in reading
the tokens of the weather. A cat hates wind and rain, and makes her arrangements accordingly.
If she washes herself smoothly, the next twelve hours will be fine. If she licks against the
grain, it will be wet. When she lies with her back to the fire, there will surely be a squall.
When her tail is up and her coat rises, look out for wind."

"Johann Klucker's cat has settled the dispute," said Bower gravely in English. "A squall it
is,--a most suitable prediction for a cat,--and I am once more rehabilitated in your esteem,
I hope?"

A cold iridescence suddenly illumined the gloomy interior of the hut. It gave individuality
to each particle of sleet whirling past the door. Helen thought that the sun had broken through
the storm clouds for an instant; but Bower said quietly:

"Are you afraid of lightning?"

"Not very. I don't like it."

"Some people collapse altogether when they see it. Perhaps when forewarned you are forearmed."

A low rumble boomed up the valley, and the mountain echoes muttered in solemn chorus.

"We are to be spared none of the scenic accessories, then?" said Helen.

"None. In fact, you will soon see and hear a thunder storm that would have delighted Gustave
Doré. Please remember that it cannot last long, and that this hut has been built twenty years
to my knowledge."

Helen sipped her coffee, but pushed away a plate set before her by Barth. "If you don't mind,
I should like the door wide open," she said.

"You prefer to lunch later?"

"Yes."

"And you wish to face the music--is that it?"

"I think so."

"Let me remind you that Jove's thunderbolts are really forged on the hilltops."

"I am here; so I must make the best of it. I shall not scream, or faint, if that is what you
dread."

"I dread nothing but your anger for not having turned back when a retreat was possible. I hate
turning back, Miss Wynton. I have never yet withdrawn from any enterprise seriously undertaken,
and I was determined to share your first ramble among my beloved hills."

Another gleam of light, bluer and more penetrating than its forerunner, lit the brown rafters
of the cabane. It was succeeded by a crash like the roar of massed artillery. The walls trembled.
Some particles of mortar rattled noisily to the floor. A strange sound of rending, followed
by a heavy thud, suggested something more tangible than thunderbolts. Bower kicked the door
and it swung inward.

"An avalanche," he said. "Probably a rockfall too. Of course, the hut stands clear of the track
of unpleasant visitors of that description."

Helen had not expected this courageous bearing in a man of Bower's physical characteristics.
Hitherto she had regarded him as somewhat self indulgent, a Sybarite, the product of modernity
in its London aspects. His demeanor in the train, in the hotel, bespoke one accustomed to gratify
the flesh, who found all the world ready to pander to his desires. Again she was conscious
of that instinctive trustfulness a woman freely reposes in a dominant man. Oddly enough, she
thought of Spencer in the same breath. An hour earlier, had she been asked which of these two
would command her confidence during a storm, her unhesitating choice would have favored the
American. Now, she was at least sure that Bower's coolness was not assumed. His attitude inspired
emulation. She rose and went to the door.

"I want to see an avalanche," she cried. "Where did that one fall?"

Bower followed her. He spoke over her shoulder. "On Monte Roseg, I expect. The weather seems
to be clearing slightly. This tearing wind will soon roll up the mist, and the thunder will
certainly start another big rock or a snowslide. If you are lucky, you may witness something
really fine."

A dazzling flash leaped over the glacier. Although the surrounding peaks were as yet invisible
through the haze of sleet and vapor, objects near at hand were revealed with uncanny distinctness.
Each frozen wave on the surface of the ice was etched in sharp lines. A cluster of séracs on
a neighboring icefall showed all their mad chaos. The blue green chasm of a huge crevasse was
illumined to a depth far below any point to which the rays of the sun penetrated. On the neighboring
slope of Monte Roseg the crimson and green and yellow mosses were given sudden life against
the black background of rock. Every boulder here wore a somber robe. They were stark and grim.
The eye instantly caught the contrast to their gray-white fellows piled on the lower moraine
or in the bed of the Orlegna.

Helen was quick to note the new tone of black amid the vividly white patches of snow. She waited
until the deafening thunder peal was dying away in eerie cadences. "Why are the rocks black
here and almost white in the valley?" she asked.

"Because they are young, as rocks go," was the smiling answer. "They have yet to pass through
the mill. They will be battered and bruised and polished before they emerge from the glacier
several years hence and a few miles nearer peace. In that they resemble men. 'Pon my word,
Miss Wynton, you have caused me to evolve a rather poetic explanation of certain gray hairs
I have noticed of late among my own raven locks."

"You appear to know and love these hills so well that I wonder--if you will excuse a personal
remark--I wonder you ever were able to tear yourself away from them."

"I have missed too much of real enjoyment in the effort to amass riches," he said slowly. "Believe
me, that thought has held me since--since you and I set foot on the Forno together."

"But you knew? You were no stranger to the Alps? I am beginning to understand that one cannot
claim kinship with the high places until they stir the heart more in storm than in sunshine.
When I saw all these giants glittering in the sun like knights in silver armor, I described
them to myself as gloriously beautiful. Now I feel that they are more than that,--they are
awful, pitiless in their indifference to frail mortals; they carry me into a dim region where
life and death are terms without meaning."

"Yes, that is the true spirit of the mountains. I too used to look on them with affectionate
reverence, and you recall the old days. Perhaps, if I am deemed worthy, you will teach me the
cult once more."

He bent closer. Helen became conscious that in her enthusiasm she had spoken unguardedly. She
moved away, slightly but unmistakably, a step or two out into the open, for the hut on that
side was not exposed to the bitter violence of the wind.

"It is absurd to imagine us in a change of rôle," she cried. "I should play the poorest travesty
of Mentor to your Telemachus. Oh! What is that?"

While she was speaking, another blinding flare of lightning flooded moraine and glacier and
pierced the veil of sleet. Her voice rose almost to a shriek. Bower sprang forward. His left
hand rested reassuringly across her shoulders.

"Better come inside the hut," he began.

"But I saw someone--a white face--staring at me down there!"

"It is possible. There is no cause for fear. A party may have crossed from Italy. There would
be none from the Maloja at this hour."

Helen was actually trembling. Bower drew her a little nearer. He himself was unnerved, a prey
to wilder emotions than she could guess till later days brought a fuller understanding. It
was a mad trick of fate that threw the girl into his embrace just then, for another far-flung
sheet of fire revealed to her terrified vision the figures of Spencer and Stampa on the rocks
beneath. With brutal candor, the same flash showed her nestling close to Bower. For some reason,
she shuddered. Though the merciful gloom of the next few seconds restored her faculties, her
face and neck were aflame. She almost felt that she had been detected in some fault. Her confusion
was not lessened by hearing a muttered curse from her companion. Careless of the stinging sleet,
she leaped down to a broad tier of rock below the plateau of the hut and cried shrilly:

"Is that really you, Mr. Spencer?"

A more tremendous burst of thunder than any yet experienced dwarfed all other sounds for an
appreciable time. The American scrambled up, almost at her feet, and stood beside her. Stampa
came quick on his heels, moving with a lightness and accuracy of foothold amazing in one so lame.

"Just me, Miss Wynton. Sorry if I have frightened you, but our old friend here was insistent
that we should hurry. I have been tracking you since nine o'clock."

Spencer's words were nonchalantly polite. He even raised his cap, though the fury of the ice
laden blast might well have excused this formal act of courtesy. Helen was still blushing so
painfully that she became angry with herself, and her voice was hardly under control. Nevertheless,
she managed to say:

"How kind and thoughtful of you! I am all right, as you see. Mr. Bower and the guide were able
to bring me here before the storm broke. We happened to be standing near the door, watching
the lightning. When I caught a glimpse of you I was so stupidly startled that I screamed and
almost fell into Mr. Bower's arms."

Put in that way, it did not sound so distressing. And Spencer had no desire to add further
difficulties to a situation already awkward.

"Guess you scared me too," he said. "I suppose, now we are at the hut, Stampa will not object
to my waiting five minutes or so before we start for home."

"Surely you will lunch with us. Everything is set out on the table, and we have food enough
for a regiment."

"You would need it if you remained here another couple of hours, Miss Wynton. Stampa tells
me that a first rate guxe, which is Swiss for a blizzard, I believe, is blowing up. This thunder
storm is the preliminary to a heavy downfall of snow. That is why I came. If we are not off
the glacier before two o'clock, it will become impassable till a lot of the snow melts."

"What is that you are saying?" demanded Bower bruskly. Helen and the two men had reached the
level of the cabane; but Stampa, thinking they would all enter, kept in the rear, "If that
fairy tale accounts for your errand, you are on a wild goose chase, Mr. Spencer."

He had not heard the American's words clearly; but he gathered sufficient to account for the
younger man's motive in following them, and was furiously annoyed by this unlooked for interruption.
He had no syllable of thanks for a friendly action. Though no small risk attended the crossing
of the Forno during a gale, it was evident he strongly resented the presence of both Spencer
and the guide.

Helen, after her first eager outburst, was tongue tied. She saw that her would-be rescuers
were dripping wet, and was amazed that Bower should greet them so curtly, though, to be sure,
she believed implicitly that the storm would soon pass. Stampa was already inside the hut.
He was haranguing Barth and the porter vehemently, and they were listening with a curious submissiveness.

Spencer was the most collected person present. He brushed aside Bower's acrimony as lightly
as he had accepted Helen's embarrassed explanation. "This is not my hustle at all," he said.
"Stampa heard that his adored sigñorina----"

"Stampa! Is that Stampa?"

Bower's strident voice was hushed to a hoarse murmur. It reminded one of his hearers of a growling
dog suddenly cowed by fear. Helen's ears were tuned to this perplexing note; but Spencer interpreted
it according to his dislike of the man.

"Stampa heard," he went on, with cold-drawn precision, "that Miss Wynton had gone to the Forno.
He is by far the most experienced guide to be found on this side of the Alps, and he believes
that anyone remaining up here to-day will surely be imprisoned in the hut a week or more by
bad weather. In fact, even now an hour may make all the difference between danger and safety.
Perhaps you can convince him he is wrong. I know nothing about it, beyond the evidence of my
senses, backed up by some acquaintance with blizzards. Anyhow, I am inclined to think that
Miss Wynton will be wise if she listens to the points of the argument in the hotel."

"Perhaps it would be better to return at once," said Helen timidly. Her sensitive nature warned
her that these two men were ready to quarrel, and that she herself, in some nebulous way, was
the cause of their mutual enmity.

Beyond this her intuition could not travel. It was impossible that she should realize how sorely
her wish to placate Bower disquieted Spencer. He had seen the two under conditions that might,
indeed, be explicable by Helen's fright; but he would extend no such charitable consideration
to Bower, whose conduct, no matter how it was viewed, made him a rival. Yes, it had come to
that. Spencer had hardly spoken a word to Stampa during the toilsome journey from Maloja. He
had looked facts stubbornly in the face, and the looking served to clear certain doubts from
his heart and brain. He wanted to woo and win Helen for his wife. He was enmeshed in a net
of his own contriving, and its strands were too strong to be broken. If Helen was reft from
him now, he would gaze on a darkened world for many a day.

But he was endowed with a splendid self control. That element of cast steel in his composition,
discovered by Dunston after five minutes' acquaintance, kept him rigid under the strain.

"Sorry I should figure as spoiling your excursion, Miss Wynton," he was able to say calmly;
"but, when all is said and done, the weather is bad, and you will have plenty of fine days later."

Bower crept nearer. His action suggested stealth. Although the wind was howling under the deep
eaves of the hut, he almost whispered. "Yes, you are right--quite right. Let us go now--at
once. With you and me, Mr. Spencer, Miss Wynton will be safe--safer than with the guides. They
can follow with the stores. Come! There is no time to be lost!"

The others were so taken aback by his astounding change of front that they were silent for
an instant. It was Helen who protested, firmly enough.

"The lightning seems to have given us an attack of nerves," she said. "It would be ridiculous
to rush off in that manner----"

"But there is peril--real peril--in delay. I admit it. I was wrong."

Bower's anxiety was only too evident. Spencer, regarding him from a single viewpoint, deemed
him a coward, and his gorge rose at the thought.

"Oh, nonsense!" he cried contemptuously. "We shall be two hours on the glacier, so five more
minutes won't cut any ice. If you have food and drink in there, Stampa certainly wants both.
We all need them. We have to meet that gale all the way. The two hours may become three before
we reach the path."

Helen guessed the reason of his disdain. It was unjust; but the moment did not permit of a
hint that he was mistaken. To save Bower from further commitment--which, she was convinced,
was due entirely to regard for her own safety--she went into the hut.

"Stampa," she said, "I am very much obliged to you for taking so much trouble. I suppose we
may eat something before we start?"

"Assuredly, fräulein," he cried. "Am I not here? Were it to begin to snow at once, I could
still bring you unharmed to the chalets."

Josef Barth had borne Stampa's reproaches with surly deference; but he refused to be degraded
in this fashion--before Karl, too, whose tongue wagged so loosely.

"That is the talk of a foolish boy, not of a man," he cried wrathfully. "Am I not fitted, then,
to take mademoiselle home after bringing her here?"

"Truly, on a fine day, Josef," was the smiling answer.

"I told monsieur that a guxe was blowing up from the south; so did Karl; but he would not hearken.
Ma foi! I am not to blame." Barth, on his dignity, introduced a few words of French picked
up from the Chamounix men. He fancied they would awe Stampa, and prove incidentally how wide
was his own experience.

The old guide only laughed. "A nice pair, you and Karl," he shouted. "Are the voyageurs in
your care or not? You told monsieur, indeed! You ought to have refused to take mademoiselle.
That would have settled the affair, I fancy."

"But this monsieur knows as much about the mountains as any of us. He might surprise even you,
Stampa. He has climbed the Matterhorn from Zermatt and Breuil. He has come down the rock wall
on the Col des Nantillons. How is one to argue with such a voyageur on this child's glacier?"

Stampa whistled. "Oh--knows the Matterhorn, does he? What is his name?"

"Bower," said Helen,--"Mr. Mark Bower."

"What! Say that again, fräulein! Mark Bower? Is that your English way of putting it?"

Helen attributed Stampa's low hiss to a tardy recognition of Bower's fame as a mountaineer.
Though the hour was noon, the light was feeble. Veritable thunder clouds had gathered above
the mist, and the expression of Stampa's face was almost hidden in the obscurity of the hut.

"That is his name," she repeated. "You must have heard of him. He was well known on the high
Alps--years ago." She paused before she added those concluding words. She was about to say
"in your time," but the substituted phrase was less personal, since the circumstances under
which Stampa ceased to be a notability in "the street" at Zermatt were in her mind.

"God in heaven!" muttered the old man, passing a hand over his face as though waking from a
dream,--"God in heaven! can it be that my prayer is answered at last?" He shambled out.

Spencer had waited to watch the almost continuous blaze of lightning playing on the glacier.
Distant summits were now looming through the diminishing downpour of sleet. He was wondering
if by any chance Stampa might be mistaken. Bower stood somewhat apart, seemingly engaged in
the same engrossing task. The wind was not quite so fierce as during its first onset. It blew
in gusts. No longer screaming in a shrill and sustained note, it wailed fitfully.

Stampa lurched unevenly close to Bower. He was about to touch him on the shoulder; but he appeared
to recollect himself in time.

"Marcus Bauer," he said in a voice that was terrible by reason of its restraint.

Bower wheeled suddenly. He did not flinch. His manner suggested a certain preparedness. Thus
might a strong man face a wild beast when hope lay only in the matching of sinew against sinew.
"That is not my name," he snarled viciously.

"Marcus Bauer," repeated Stampa in the same repressed monotone, "I am Etta's father."

"Why do you address me in that fashion? I have never before seen you."

"No. You took care of that. You feared Etta's father, though you cared little for Christian
Stampa, the guide. But I have seen you, Marcus Bauer. You were slim then--an elegant, is it
not?--and many a time have I hobbled into the Hotel Mont Cervin to look at your portrait in
a group lest I should forget your face. Yet I passed you just now! Great God! I passed you."

A ferocity glared from Bower's eyes that might well have daunted Stampa. For an instant he
glanced toward Spencer, whose clear cut profile was silhouetted against a background of white-blue
ice now gleaming in a constant flutter of lightning. Stampa was not yet aware of the true cause
of Bower's frenzy. He thought that terror was spurring him to self defense. An insane impulse
to kill, to fight with the nails and teeth, almost mastered him; but that must not be yet.

"It is useless, Marcus Bauer," he said, with a calmness so horribly unreal that its deadly
intent was all the more manifest. "I am the avenger, not you. I can tear you to pieces with
my hands when I will. It would be here and now, were it not for the presence of the English
sigñorina who saved me from death. It is not meet that she should witness your expiation. That
is to be settled between you and me alone."

Bower made one last effort to assert himself. "You are talking in riddles, man," he said. "If
you believe you have some long forgotten grievance against one of my name, come and see me
to-morrow at the hotel. Perhaps----"

"Yes, I shall see you to-morrow. Do not dream that you can escape me. Now that I know you live,
I would search the wide world for you. Blessed Mother! How you must have feared me all these
years!"

Stampa was using the Romansch dialect of the Italian Alps. Bower spoke in German. Spencer heard
them indistinctly. He marveled that they should discuss, as he imagined, the state of the weather
with such subdued passion.

"Hello, Christian," he cried, "the clouds are lifting somewhat. Where is your promised snow?"

Stampa peered up into Bower's face; for his twisted leg had reduced his own unusual height
by many inches. "To-morrow!" he whispered. "At ten o'clock--outside the hotel. Then we have
a settlement. Is it so?"

There was no answer. Bower was wrestling with a mad desire to grapple with him and fling him
down among the black rocks. Stampa crept nearer. A ghastly smile lit his rugged features, and
his pickel clattered to the broken shingle at his feet.

"I offer you to-morrow," he said. "I am in no hurry. Have I not waited sixteen years? But it
may be that you are tortured by a devil, Marcus Bauer. Shall it be now?"

The clean-souled peasant believed that the millionaire had a conscience. Not yet did he understand
that balked desire is stronger than any conscience. It really seemed that nothing could withhold
these two from mortal struggle then and there. Spencer was regarding them curiously; but they
paid no heed to him. Bower's tongue was darting in and out between his teeth. The red blood
surged to his temples. Stampa was still smiling. His lips moved in the strangest prayer that
ever came from a man's heart. He was actually thanking the Madonna--mother of the great peacemaker--for
having brought his enemy within reach!

"Mr. Bower!" came Helen's voice from the door of the cabane. "Why don't you join us? And you,
Mr. Spencer? Stampa, come here and eat at once."

"To-morrow, at ten? Or now?" the old man whispered again.

"To-morrow--curse you!"

Stampa twisted himself round. "I am not hungry, fräulein," he cried. "I ate chocolate all the
way up the glacier. But do you be speedy. We have lost too much time already."

Bower brushed past, and the guide stooped to recover his ice ax. Spencer, though troubled sufficiently
by his own disturbing fantasies, did not fail to notice their peculiar behavior. But he answered
Helen with a pleasant disclaimer.

"Christian kept his hoard a secret, Miss Wynton. I too have lost my appetite," said he.

"Once we start we shall hardly be able to unpack the hamper again," said Helen.

The American was trying her temper. She suspected that he carried his hostility to the absurd
pitch of refusing to partake of any food provided by Bower. It was a queer coincidence that
Spencer harbored the same notion with regard to Stampa, and wondered at it.

"I shall starve willingly," he said. "It will be a just punishment for declining the good things
that did not tempt me when they were available."

Bower poured out a quantity of wine and drank it at a gulp. He refilled the glass and nearly
emptied it a second time. But he touched not a morsel of meat or bread. Helen, fortunately,
attributed the conduct of the men to spleen. She ate a sandwich, and found that she was far
more ready for a meal than she had imagined.

Stampa's broad frame darkened the doorway. He told Karl not to burden himself with anything
save the cutlery. Now that he was the skilled guide again, the leader in whom they trusted,
his worn face was animated and his voice eager.

Helen heard Spencer's exclamation without.

"By Jove, Stampa! you are right! Here comes the snow."

"Quick, quick!" cried Stampa. "Vorwärtz, Barth. You lead. Stop at my call. Karl next--then
the fräulein and my monsieur. Yours follows, and I come last."

"No, no!" burst out Bower, lowering a third glass of wine from his lips.

"Che diavolo! It shall be as I have said!" shouted Stampa, with an imperious gesture. Helen
remarked it; but things were being done and said that were inexplicable. Even Bower was silenced.

"Are we to be roped, then?" growled Barth.

"Have you never crossed ice during a snow storm?" asked Stampa.

In a few minutes they were ready. The lightning flashes were less frequent, and the thunder
was muttering far away amid the secret places of the Bernina. The wind was rising again. Instead
of sleet it carried snowflakes, and these did not sting the face nor patter on the ice. But
they clung everywhere, and the sable rocks were taking unto themselves a new garment.

"Vorwärtz!" rang out Stampa's trumpet like call, and Barth leaped down into the moraine.

CHAPTER X

ON THE GLACIER

Barth, a good man on ice and rock, was not a genius among guides. Faced by an apparently unscalable
rock wall, or lost in a wilderness of séracs, he would never guess the one way that led to
success. But he was skilled in the technic of his profession, and did not make the mistake
now of subjecting Helen or Spencer to the risk of an ugly fall. The air temperature had dropped
from eighty degrees Fahrenheit to below freezing point. Rocks that gave safe foothold an hour
earlier were now glazed with an amalgam of sleet and snow. If, in his dull mind, he wondered
why Spencer came next to Helen, rather than Bower or Stampa,--either of whom would know exactly
when to give that timely aid with the rope that imparts such confidence to the novice,--he
said nothing. Stampa's eye was on him. His pride was up in arms. It behooved him to press on
at just the right pace, and commit no blunder.

Helen, who had been glad to get back to the moraine during the ascent, was ready to breathe
a sigh of relief when she felt her feet on the ice again. Those treacherous rocks were affrighting.
They bereft her of trust in her own limbs. She seemed to slip here and there without power
to check herself. She expected at any moment to stumble helplessly on some cruelly sharp angle
of a granite boulder, and find that she was maimed so badly as to render another step impossible.
More than once she was sensible that the restraining pull on the rope alone held her from disaster.
Her distress did not hinder the growth of a certain surprise that the American should be so
sure footed, so quick to judge her needs. When by his help a headlong downward plunge was converted
into a harmless slide over the sloping face of a rock, she half turned.

"I must thank you for that afterward," she said, with a fine effort at a smile.

"Eyes front, please," was the quiet answer.

Under less strenuous conditions it might have sounded curt; but the look that met hers robbed
the words of their tenseness, and sent the hot blood tingling in her veins. Bower had never
looked at her like that. Just as some unusually vivid flash of lightning revealed the hidden
depths of a crevasse, bringing plainly before the eye chinks and crannies not discernible in
the strongest sunlight, so did the glimpse of Spencer's soul illumine her understanding. He
was not only safeguarding her, but thinking of her, and the stolen knowledge set up a bewildering
tumult in her heart.

"Attention!" shouted Barth, halting and making a drive at something with his ax.

The line stopped. Stampa's ringing voice came over Helen's head:

"What is that ahead there?"

"A new fall, I think. We ought to leave the moraine a little lower down; but this was not here
when we ascended."

How either man, Stampa especially, could see anything at all, was beyond the girl's comprehension.
The snow was absolutely blinding. The wind was full in their faces, and it carried the huge
flakes upward. They seemed to spring from beneath rather than drop from the clouds. Ever and
anon a weirdly blue gleam of lightning would give a demoniac touch to a scene worthy of the
Inferno.

"Make for the ice--quick!" cried Stampa, and Barth turned sharply to the left. Falling stones
were now their chief danger, and both men were anxious to avoid it.

After a brief scramble they mounted the curving glacier. A fiercer gust shrieked at them and
swept some small space clear of snow. Helen had a dim vision of lightning playing above the
crest of a great mound on the edge of the ice field,--a mound that she did not remember seeing
before. Then the gale sank back to its sustained howling, the snow swirled in denser volume,
and the specter vanished.

Ere they had gone another hundred yards, Barth's hoarse warning checked them again. "The bridge
has fallen!" was his cry. "There has been an ice movement."

There was a question in the man's words. Here was a nice point submitted to his judgment,--whether
to follow the line of the recently formed schrund yawning at his feet, or endeavor to cross
it, or go back to the scene of the landslip? That was where Barth was lacking. In that instant
he resigned his pride of place without further effort to retain it. He was in the van, but
did not lead. Thenceforth Stampa was master.

"What is the width--ten meters?" demanded the old guide cheerfully.

"About that."

"All the better. It is not deep here. The shock of that avalanche opened it up. You will find
a way down. Cut the steps close together. You know how to polish them, Karl?"

"Yes, I can do that," said the porter.

"And watch the sigñorina's feet."

"Yes, I'll take care."

Barth was peering fixedly into the chasm. To Helen's fancy it was bottomless, though in reality
it was not more than forty feet deep, and the two walls fell away from each other at a practicable
angle. In normal summer weather, a small crevasse always formed there owing to the glacier
flowing over a transverse ridge of rock beneath. To-day the impact of many thousands of tons
of débris had disrupted the ice to an unusual extent. Having decided on the best line, the
leading guide stepped over into space. Helen heard his ax ringing as he fashioned secure foothold
down the steep ledge he had selected. He was quite trustworthy in such work.

Stampa, who had a thought for none save Helen, gave her a reassuring word. "Barth will find
a way, fräulein," he said. "And Herr Spencer knows how you should cross your feet and carry
your ax, while Karl will see to your foothold. Remember too that you will be at the bottom
before I begin the descent, so no harm can come to you. Try and stand straight. Don't lean
against the slope. Lean away from it. Don't be afraid. Don't trust to the rope or the grip
of the ax. Rely on your own stand."

It was no time to pick and choose phrases, yet Helen realized the oddity of the absence of
any reference to Bower. One other in the party had a thought somewhat akin to hers; but he
slurred it over in his mind, and seized the opportunity to help her by a casual remark.

"Guess you hardly expected genuine ice work in to-day's trip?" he said. "Stampa and I had a
lot of it last week. It's as easy as walking down stairs when you know how."

"I don't think I am afraid," she answered; "but I should have preferred to walk up stairs first.
This is rather reversing the natural order of things, isn't it?"

"Nature loves irregularities. That is why the prize girl in every novel has irregular features.
A heroine with a Greek face would kill a whole library."

"Vorwärtz--es geht!"

Barth's gruff voice sounded hollow from the depths. Karl, in his turn, went over the lip of
the crevasse. Helen, conscious of an exaltation that lifted her out of the region of ignoble
fear, looked down. She could see now what was being done. Barth was swinging his ax and smiting
the ice with the adz. His head was just below the level of her feet, though he was distant
the full length of two sections of the rope. He had cut broad black steps. They did not seem
to present any great difficulty. Helen found herself speculating on the remarkable light effects
that made these notches black in a gray-green wall.

"Right foot first," said Spencer quietly. "When that is firmly fixed, throw all your weight
on it, and bring the left down. Then the right again. Hold the pick breast high."

"So!" cried Karl appreciatively, watching her first successful effort.

As Spencer was lowering himself into the crevasse, he heard something that set his nimble wits
agog. Stampa, the valiant and light hearted Stampa, the genial companion who had laughed and
jested even when they were crossing an ice slope on the giant Monte della Disgrazia,--a traverse
of precarious clinging, where a slip meant death a thousand feet below,--was muttering strangely
at Bower.

"Schwein-hund!" he was saying, "if any evil befalls the fräulein, I shall drive my ax between
your shoulder blades."

There was no reply. Spencer was sure he was not mistaken. Though the guide spoke German, he
knew enough of that language to understand this comparatively simple sentence. Quite as amazing
as Stampa's threat was Bower's silent acceptance of it. He began to piece together some fleeting
impressions of the curious wrangle between the two outside the hut. He recalled Bower's extraordinary
change of tone when told that a man named Christian Stampa had followed him from Maloja.

Helen was just taking another confident step forward and down, balancing herself with graceful
assurance. Spencer had a few seconds in which to steal a backward glance, and a flash of lightning
happened to glimmer on Bower's features. The American was not given to fanciful imaginings;
but during many a wild hour in the Far West he had seen the baleful frown of murder on a man's
face too often not to recognize it now in this snow scourged cleft of a mighty Alpine glacier.
Yet he was helpless. He could neither speak nor act on a mere opinion. He could only watch,
and be on his guard. From that moment he tried to observe every movement not only of Helen
but of Bower.

The members of the party were roped at intervals of twenty feet. Allowing for the depth of
the crevasse, the amount of rope taken up in their hands ready to be served out as occasion
required, and the inclination of Barth's line of descent, the latter ought to be notching the
opposing wall before Stampa quitted the surface of the glacier. Though Spencer could not see
Stampa now, he knew that the rear guide was bracing himself strongly against any tell-tale
jerk, with the additional security of an anchor obtained by driving the pick of his ax deeply
into the surface ice. It was Bower's business to keep the rope quite taut both above and below;
but the American was sure that he was gathering the slack behind him with his right hand while
he carried the ax in his left, and did not use it to steady himself.

Spencer assumed, from various comments by Helen and others, that Bower was an adept climber.
Therefore, the passage of a schrund, or large, shallow crevasse was child's play to him. This
departure from all the canons of the craft as imparted by Stampa during their first week on
the hills together, struck Spencer as exceedingly dangerous. He reflected that were it not
for the words he had overheard, he would never have known of this curious proceeding. Indeed,
but for those words, with their sinister significance augmented by Bower's devilish expression,
had he even looked back by chance, the maneuver might not have attracted his attention. What,
then, did it imply? Why should a skilled mountaineer break an imperative rule that permits
of no exceptions? He continued to watch Bower even more closely. He devoted to the task every
instant that consideration for Helen's safety and his own would allow.

There was not much light in the crevasse. Heavy clouds and the smothering snow wraiths hid
the travelers under a dense pall that suggested the approach of night, although the actual
time was about half past one o'clock in the afternoon. The wind seemed to delight in torturing
them with minute particles of ice that stung with a peculiar sensation of burning. These were
bad enough. To add to their miseries, fine, powdery snowflakes settled on eyes and eyelids
with blinding effect.

During a particularly baffling gust Helen uttered a slight exclamation. Instantly Spencer stiffened
himself, and Barth and Karl halted.

"It is nothing," she cried. "For a second I could not see."

Barth's ax rang out again. The vibrations of each lusty blow could be felt distinctly along
the solid ice wall. After a last downward step he would begin to notch his way up the other
side, where the angle was much more favorable to rapid progress. Spencer stole another glance
over his shoulder. Bower had fully ten feet of the rearmost section of rope in hand. His head
was thrown well back. Standing with his face to the ice, he was striving to look over the lip
of the schrund. Stampa, feeling a steady tension, must be expecting the announcement momentarily
that Barth was crossing the narrow crevice at the bottom. Helen and Karl, intent on the operations
of the leader, paid heed to nothing else; but Spencer was fascinated by Bower's peculiar actions.

At last, Barth's deep bass reverberated triumphantly upward. "Vorwärtz!"

"Vorwärtz, Stampa!" repeated Bower, suddenly changing the ice ax to his right hand and stretching
the left as far along the rope and as high up as possible. Simultaneously he raised the ax.
Then, and not till then, did Spencer understand. Stampa must be on the point of relaxing his
grip and preparing to descend. If Bower cut the rope with a single stroke of the adz, a violent
tug at the sundered end would precipitate Stampa headlong into the crevasse, while there would
be ample evidence to show that he had himself severed the rope by a miscalculated blow. The
fall would surely kill him. When his corpse was recovered, it would be found that the cut had
been made much closer to his own body than to that of his nearest neighbor.

"Stop!" roared Spencer, all a-quiver with wrath at his discovery.

Obedience to the climbers' law held the others rigid. That command implied danger. It called
for an instant tightening of every muscle to withstand the strain of a slip. Even Bower, a
man on the very brink of committing a fiendish crime, yielded to a subconscious acceptance
of the law, and kept himself braced in his steps.

The American was well fitted to handle a crisis of that nature. "Hold fast, Stampa!" he shouted.

"What is wrong?" came the ready cry, for the rear guide had already driven the pick of his
ax into the ice again after having withdrawn it.

Then Spencer spoke English. "I happen to be watching you," he said slowly, never relaxing a
steel-cold scrutiny of Bower's livid face. "You seem to forget what you are doing. Follow me
until you have taken up the slack of the rope. Do you understand?"

Bower continued to gaze at him with lack-luster eyes. All he realized was that his murderous
design was frustrated; but how or why he neither knew nor cared.

"Do you hear me?" demanded Spencer even more sternly. "Come along, or I shall explain myself
more fully!"

Without answering, the other made shift to move. Spencer, however, meant to save the unwitting
guide from further hazard.

"Don't stir, Stampa, till I give the order!" he sang out.

"All right, monsieur, but we are losing time. What is Barth doing there? Saperlotte! If I were
in front----"

Bower, who owned certain strong qualities, swallowed something, took three strides downward,
and said calmly: "I was waiting to give Stampa a hand. He is lame, you know."

Helen, of course, heard all that passed. She had long since abandoned the effort to disentangle
the skein of that day's events. Everybody was talking and acting unnaturally. Perhaps the ravel
of things would clear itself when they regained the commonplace world of the hotel. In any
case, she wished the men would hurry, for it was unutterably cold in the crevasse.

At last, then, there was a movement ahead.

Barth began to mount. Muttering an instruction to Karl that he was to give the girl a friendly
pull, he cut smaller steps more widely apart and at a steeper gradient. Soon they were on the
floor of the ice and hurrying to the next bridge. Not a word was spoken by anyone. The fury
of the gale and the ever gathering snow made it imperative that not a moment should be wasted.
The lightning was decreasing perceptibly, while the occasional peals of thunder were scarcely
audible above the soughing of the wind. A tremendous crash on the right announced the fall
of another avalanche; but it did not affect the next broad crevasse. The bridge they had used
a few hours earlier stood firm. Indeed, it was new welded by regelation since the sun's rays
had disappeared.

The leader kept a perfect line, never deviating from the right track. Helen, who had completely
lost her bearings, thought they had a long way farther to go, when she saw Barth stop and begin
to unfasten the rope. Then a thrust with the butt of her pickel told her that she was standing
on rock. When she cleared her eyes of the flying snow, she saw a well defined curving ribbon
amid the white chaos. It was the path, covered six inches deep. The violent exertions of nearly
three hours since she left the hut had induced a pleasant sense of languor. Did she dare to
suggest it, she would have liked to sit down and rest for awhile.

Bower, who had substituted reasoned thought for his madness, addressed Spencer with easy complacence
while Barth was unroping them. "Why did you believe that I was doing a risky thing in stopping
to assist Stampa?" he asked.

"I guess you know best," was the uncompromising answer.

"Yes, I think I do. Of course, I could not argue the matter then, but I fancy my climbing experience
is far greater than yours, Mr. Spencer."

His sheer impudence was admirable. He even smiled in the superior way of an expert lecturing
a novice. But Spencer did not smile.

"Do you really want to hear my views on your conduct?" he said.

"No, thanks. The discussion might prove interesting, but we can adjourn it to the coffee and
cigar period after dinner."

His eyes fell under Spencer's contemptuous glance. Yet he carried himself bravely. Though the
man he meant to kill, and another man who had read his inmost thought in time to prevent a
tragedy, were looking at him fixedly, he turned away with a laugh on his lips.

"I am afraid, Miss Wynton, you will regard me in future as a broken reed where Alpine excursions
are concerned," he said.

"You were mistaken--that is obvious," said Helen frankly. "But so was Barth. He agreed that
the storm would be only a passing affair. Don't you think we are very deeply indebted to Mr.
Spencer and Stampa for coming to our assistance?"

"I do, indeed. Stampa, one can reward in kind. This sort of thing used to be his business,
I hear. As for Mr. Spencer, a smile from you will repay him tenfold."

"Herr Spencer," broke in Stampa, "you go on with the sigñorina and see that she does not slip.
She is tired. Marcus Bauer and I have matters to discuss."

The old man's unwonted harshness appealed to the girl as did the host of other queer happenings
on that memorable day. Bower moved uneasily. A vindictive gleam shot from his eyes. Helen missed
none of this. But she was fatigued, and her feet were cold and wet, while the sleet encountered
on the upper glacier had almost soaked her to the skin. Nevertheless, she strove bravely to
lighten the cloud that seemed to have settled on the men.

"That means a wordy warfare," she said gayly. "I pity you, Mr. Bower. You cannot wriggle out
of your difficulty. The snow will soon be a foot deep in the valley. Goodness only knows what
would have become of us up there in the hut!"

He bowed gracefully, with a hint of the foreign air she had noted once before. "I would have
brought you safely out of greater perils," he said; "but every dog has his day, and this is
Stampa's."

"En route!" cried the guide impatiently. He loathed the sight of Bower standing there, smiling
and courteous, in the presence of one whom he regarded as a Heaven-sent friend and protectress.
Spencer attributed his surliness to its true cause. It supplied another bit of the mosaic he
was slowly piecing together. Greatly as he preferred Helen's company, he was willing to sacrifice
at least ten minutes of it, could he but listen to the "discussion" between Stampa and Bower.

Therein he would have erred greatly. Helen was tired, and she admitted it. She did not decline
his aid when the path was steep and slippery. In delightful snatches of talk they managed to
say a good deal to each other, and Helen did not fail to make plain the exact circumstances
under which she first caught sight of Spencer outside the hut. When they arrived at the carriage
road, which begins at Lake Cavloccio, they could walk side by side and chat freely. Here, in
the valley, matters were normal. The snow did not place such a veil on all things. The windings
of the road often brought them abreast of the four men in the rear. Bower was trudging along
alone, holding his head down, and seemingly lost in thought.

Close behind him came Stampa and the Engadiners. Karl, of course, was talking--the others might
or might not be lending their ears to his interminable gossip.

"We are outstripping our companions. Don't you think we ought to wait for them?" said Helen
once, when Bower chanced to look her way.

"No," said Spencer.

"You are exceedingly positive."

"I tried to be exceedingly negative."

"But why?"

"I rather fancy that they would jar on us."

"But Stampa's promised lecture appears to have ended?"

"I think it never began. It is a safe bet that Mr. Bower and he have not exchanged a word since
our last halt."

Helen laughed. "A genuine case of Greek meeting Greek," she said. "Stampa is an excellent guide,
I am sure; but Mr. Bower does really know these mountains. I suppose anyone is liable to err
in forecasting Alpine weather."

"That is nothing. If it were you or I, Stampa would dismiss the point with a grin. You heard
how he chaffed Barth, yet trusted him with the lead? No. These two have an old feud to settle.
You will hear more of it."

"A feud! Mr. Bower declared to me that Stampa was absolutely unknown to him."

"It isn't necessary to know a man before you hate him. I can give you a heap of historic examples.
For instance, who has a good word to say for Ananias?"

The girl understood that he meant to parry her question with a quip. The cross purposes so
much in evidence all day were baffling and mysterious to its close.

"My own opinion is that both you and Stampa have taken an unreasonable dislike to Mr. Bower,"
she said determinedly. The words were out before she quite realized their import. She flushed
a little.

Spencer was gazing down into the gorge of the Orlegna. The brawling torrent chimed with his
own mood; but his set face gave no token of the storm within. He only said quietly, "How good
it must be to have you as a friend!"

"I have no reason to feel other than friendly to Mr. Bower," she protested hotly. "It was the
rarest good fortune for me that he came to Maloja. I met him once in London, and a second time,
by accident, during my journey to Switzerland. Yet, widely known as he is in society, he was
sufficiently large minded to disregard the sneers and innuendoes of some of those horrid women
in the hotel. He has gone out of his way to show me every kindness. Why should I not repay
it by speaking well of him?"

"I shall lay my head on the nearest tree stump, and you can smite me with your ax, good and
hard," said Spencer.

She laughed angrily. "I don't know what evil influence is possessing us," she cried. "Everything
is awry. Even the sun refuses to shine. Here am I storming at one to whom I owe my life----"

"No," he broke in decisively. "Don't put it that way, because the whole credit of the relief
expedition is due to Stampa. Say, Miss Wynton, may I square my small services by asking a favor?"

"Oh, yes, indeed."

"Well, then, if it lies in your power, keep Stampa and Bower apart. In any event, don't intervene
in their quarrel."

"So you are quite serious in your belief that there is a quarrel?"

The American saw again in his mind's eye the scene in the crevasse when Bower had raised his
ax to strike. "Quite serious," he replied, and the gravity in his voice was so marked that
Helen placed a contrite hand on his arm for an instant.

"Please, I am sorry if I was rude to you just now," she said. "I have had a long day, and my
nerves are worn to a fine edge. I used to flatter myself that I hadn't any nerves; but they
have come to the surface here. It must be the thin air."

"Then it is a bad place for an American."

"Ah, that reminds me of something I had forgotten. I meant to ask you how you came to remain
in the Maloja. Is that too inquisitive on my part? I can account for the presence of the other
Americans in the hotel. They belong to the Paris colony, and are interested in tennis and golf.
I have not seen you playing either game. In fact, you moon about in solitary grandeur, like
myself. And--oh, dear! what a string of questions!--is it true that you wanted to play baccarat
with Mr. Bower for a thousand pounds?"

"It is true that I agreed to share a bank with Mr. Dunston, and the figure you mention was
suggested; but I backed out of the proposition."

"Why?"

"Because your friend, Mr. Hare, thought he was responsible, in a sense, having introduced me
to Dunston; so I let up on the idea,--just to stop him from feeling bad about it."

"You really meant to play in the first instance?"

"Yes."

"Well, it was very wicked of you. Only the other day you were telling me how hard you had to
work before you saved your first thousand pounds."

"From that point of view my conduct was idiotic. But I would like to carry the story a little
further, Miss Wynton. I was in a mood that night to oppose Mr. Bower for a much more valuable
stake if the chance offered."

"It is rather shocking," said Helen.

"I suppose so. Of course, there are prizes in life that cannot be measured by monetary standards."

He was not looking at the Orlegna now, and the girl by his side well knew it. The great revelation
that flooded her soul with light while crossing the Forno came back with renewed power. She
did not pretend to herself that the words were devoid of a hidden meaning, and her heart fluttered
with subtle ecstasy. But she was proud and self reliant, so proud that she crushed the tumult
in her breast, so self reliant that she was able to give him a timid smile.

"That deals with the second head of the indictment, then," she said lightly. "Now for the first.
Why did you select the Engadine for your holiday?"

"If I could tell you that, I should know something of the occult impulses that govern men's
lives. One minute I was in London, meaning to go north. The next I was hurrying to buy a ticket
for St. Moritz."

"But----" She meant to continue, "you arrived here the same day as I did." Somehow that did
not sound quite the right thing to say. Her tongue tripped; but she forced herself to frame
a sentence. "It is odd that you, like myself, should have hit upon an out of the way place
like Maloja. The difference is that I was sent here, whereas you came of your own free will."

"I guess you are right," said he, laughing as though she had uttered an exquisite joke. "Yes,
that is just it. I can imagine two young English swallows, meeting in Algeria in the winter,
twittering explanations of the same sort."

"I don't feel a bit like a swallow, and I am sure I can't twitter, and as for Algeria, a home
of sunshine--well, just look at it!" She waved a hand at the darkening panorama of hills and
pine woods, all etched in black lines and masses, where rocks and trees and houses broke the
dead white of the snow mantle.

They happened to be crossing a bridge that spans the Orlegna before it takes its first frantic
plunge towards Italy. Bower, who had quickened his pace, took the gesture as a signal, and
sent an answering flourish. Helen stopped. He evidently wished to overtake them.

"More explanations," murmured Spencer.

"But he was mistaken. I was calling Nature to witness that your simile was not justified."

"Tell you what," he said in a low voice, "if this storm has blown over by the morning, meet
me after breakfast, and we will walk down the valley to Vicosoprano for luncheon. There is
a diligence back in the afternoon. We can stroll there in three hours, and I shall have time
to clear up this swallow proposition."

"That will be delightful, if the weather improves."

"It will. I will compel it."

Bower was nearing them rapidly. A constrained silence fell between them. To end it, Helen cried:

"Well, are you feeling duly humbled, Mr. Bower?"

He did not seem to understand her meaning. Apparently, he might have forgotten that Stampa
still lived. Then he roused his wits with an effort. "Not humbled, but elated," he said. "Have
I not led you to feats of derring-do? Why, the Wragg girls will be green with envy when they
hear of your exploits."

He swung round the corner to the bridge. After a smiling glance at Spencer's impassive face,
he turned to Helen. "You have come out of the ordeal with flying colors," he said. "That flower
you picked on the way up has not withered. Give it to me as a memento."

The words were almost a challenge. The girl hesitated.

"No," she said. "I must find you some other souvenir."

"But I want that--if----"

"There is no 'if.' You forget that I took it from--from the boulder marked by a cross."

"I am not superstitious."

"Nor am I. Nevertheless, I should not care to give you such a symbol."

She caught Bower and Spencer exchanging a strange look. These men shared some secret that they
sedulously kept from her. Perhaps the American meant to enlighten her during their projected
walk to Vicosoprano.

Stampa and the others approached. Together they climbed the little hill leading to the summit
of the pass. In the village they said "Good night" to the two guides and Karl.

Helen promised laughingly to make the acquaintance of Johann Klucker's cat at the first opportunity.
She was passing through a wicket that protects the footpath across the golf links, when she
heard Stampa growl:

"Morgen früh!"

"Ja!" snapped Bower.

She smiled to herself at the thought that things were going to happen to-morrow. She was right.
But she had not yet done with the present day. When she entered the cozy and brilliantly lighted
veranda of the hotel, the first person her amazed eyes alighted upon was Millicent Jaques.

CHAPTER XI

WHEREIN HELEN LIVES A CROWDED HOUR

"Millicent! You here!" Helen breathed the words in an undertone that carried more than a hint
of dismay.

It was one of those rare crises in life when the brain receives a presage of evil without any
prior foundation of fact. Helen had every reason to welcome her friend, none to be chilled
by her unexpected presence. Among a small circle of intimate acquaintances she counted Millicent
Jaques the best and truest. They had drifted apart; but that was owing to Helen's lack of means.
She was not able, nor did she aspire, to mix in the society that hailed the actress as a bright
particular star. Yet it meant much to a girl earning her daily bread in a heedless city that
she should possess one friend of her own age and sex who could speak of the golden years when
they were children together,--the years when Helen's father was the prospective governor of
an Indian province as large as France; when the tuft hunters now gathered in Maloja would have
fawned on her mother in hope of subsequent recognition.

Why, then, did Helen falter in her greeting? Who can tell? She herself did not know, unless
it was that Millicent rose so leisurely from the table at which she was drinking a belated
cup of tea, and came toward her with a smile that had no warmth in it.

"So you have returned," she said, "and with both cavaliers?"

Helen was conscious of a queer humming noise in her head. She was incapable of calm thought.
She realized now that the friend she had left in London was here in the guise of a bitter enemy.
The veranda was full of people waiting for the post. The snow had banished them from links
and tennis court. This August afternoon was dark as mid-December at the same hour. But the
rendezvous was brilliantly lighted, and the reappearance of the climbers, whose chances of
safety had been eagerly debated since the snow storm began, drew all eyes. Someone had whispered
too that the beautiful woman who arrived from St. Moritz half an hour earlier, who sat in her
furs and sipped her tea after a long conversation with a clerk in the bureau, was none other
than Millicent Jaques, the dancer, one of the leading lights of English musical comedy.

The peepers and whisperers little dreamed that she could be awaiting the party from the Forno.
Now that her vigil was explained, for Bower had advanced with ready smile and outstretched
hand, the Wraggs and Vavasours and de la Veres--all the little coterie of gossips and scandalmongers--were
drawn to the center of the hall like steel filings to a magnet.

Millicent ignored Bower. She was young enough and pretty enough to feel sure of her ability
to deal with him subsequently. Her cornflower blue eyes glittered. They held something of the
quiet menace of a crevasse. She had traveled far for revenge, and she did not mean to forego
it. Helen, whose second impulse was to kiss her affectionately, with excited clamor of welcome
and inquiry, stood rooted to the floor by her friend's strange words.

"I--I am so surprised----" she half stammered in an agony of confused doubt; and that was the
only lame phrase she could utter during a few trying seconds.

Bower frowned. He hated scenes between women. With his first glimpse of Millicent he guessed
her errand. For Helen's sake, in the presence of that rabbit-eared crowd, he would not brook
the unmerited flood of sarcastic indignation which he knew was trembling on her lips.

"Miss Wynton has had an exhausting day," he said coolly. "She must go straight to her room,
and rest. You two can meet and talk after dinner." Without further preamble, he took Helen's arm.

Millicent barred the way. She did not give place. Again she paid no heed to the man. "I shall
not detain you long," she said, looking only at Helen, and speaking in a low clear voice that
her stage training rendered audible throughout the large hall. "I only wished to assure myself
that what I was told was true. I found it hard to believe, even when I saw your name written
up in the hotel. Before I go, let me congratulate you on your conquest--and Mr. Mark Bower
on his," she added, with clever pretense of afterthought.

Helen continued to stare at her helplessly. Her lips quivered; but they uttered no sound. It
was impossible to misunderstand Millicent's object. She meant to wound and insult in the grossest
way.

Bower dropped Helen's arm, and strode close to the woman who had struck this shrewd blow at
him. "I give you this one chance!" he muttered, while his eyes blazed into hers. "Go to your
room, or sit down somewhere till I am free. I shall come to you, and put things straight that
now seem crooked. You are wrong, horribly wrong, in your suspicions. Wait my explanation, or
by all that I hold sacred, you will regret it to your dying hour!"

Millicent drew back a little. She conveyed the suggestion that his nearness was offensive to
her nostrils. And she laughed, with due semblance of real amusement. "What! Has she made a
fool of you too?" she cried bitingly.

Then Helen did exactly the thing she ought not to have done. She fainted.

Spencer, in his own vivid phrase, was "looking for trouble" the instant he caught sight of
the actress. Had some Mahatma-devised magic lantern focused on the screen of his inner consciousness
a complete narrative of the circumstances which conspired to bring Millicent Jaques to the
Upper Engadine, he could not have mastered cause and effect more fully. The unlucky letter
he asked Mackenzie to send to the Wellington Theater--the letter devised as a probe into Bower's
motives, but which was now cruelly searching its author's heart--had undoubtedly supplied to
a slighted woman the clew to her rival's identity. Better posted than Bower in the true history
of Helen's visit to Switzerland, he did not fail to catch the most significant word in Millicent's
scornful greeting.

"And with both cavaliers!"

In all probability, she knew the whole ridiculous story, reading into it the meaning lent by
jealous spleen, and no more to be convinced of error than the Forno glacier could be made to
flow backward.

But if his soul was vexed by a sense of bygone folly, his brain was cool and alert. He saw
Helen sway slightly. He caught her before she collapsed where she stood. He gathered her tenderly
in his arms. She might have been a tired child, fallen asleep too soon. Her limp head rested
on his shoulder. Through the meshes of her blue veil he could see the sudden pallor of her
cheeks. The tint of the silk added to the lifelessness of her aspect. Just then Spencer's heart
was sore within him, and he was an awkward man to oppose.

George de Courcy Vavasour happened to crane his neck nearer at the wrong moment. The American
sent him flying with a vigorous elbow thrust. He shoved Bower aside with scant ceremony. Millicent
Jaques met a steely glance that quelled the vengeful sparkle in her own eyes, and caused her
to move quickly, lest, perchance, this pale-faced American should trample on her. Before Bower
could recover his balance, for his hobnails caused him to slip on the tiled floor, Spencer
was halfway across the inner hall, and approaching the elevator.

An official of the hotel hastened forward with ready proffer of help. "This way," he said sympathetically.
"The lady was overcome by the heat after so many hours in the intense cold. It often occurs.
She will recover soon. Bring her to a chair in the office."

But Spencer was not willing that Helen's first wondering glance should rest on strangers, or
that, when able to walk to her own apartments, she should be compelled to pass through the
ranks of gapers in the lounge.

"No," he said. "Ring for the elevator. This lady must be taken to her room,--No. 80, I believe,--then
the manageress and a chambermaid can attend to her. Quick! the elevator!"

Bower turned on Millicent like an angry bull. "You have chosen your own method," he growled.
"Very well. You shall pay for it."

Her venom was such that she was by no means disturbed by his threat. "The other man--the American
who brought her here--seems to have bested you throughout," she taunted him.

He drew himself up with a certain dignity. He was aware that every tongue in the place was
stilled, that every ear was tuned to catch each note of this fantastic quartet,--a sonata appassionata
in which vibrated the souls of men and women. He looked from Millicent's pallid face to the
faces of the listeners, some of whom made pretense of polite indifference, while others did
not scruple to exhibit their eager delight. If nothing better, the episode would provide an
abundance of spicy gossip during the enforced idleness caused by the weather.

"The lady whom you are endeavoring to malign, will, I hope, do me the honor of becoming my
wife," he said. "That being so, she is beyond the reach of the slanderous malice of an ex-chorus
girl."

He spoke slowly, with the air of a man who weighed his words. A thrill that could be felt ran
through his intent audience. Mark Bower, the millionaire, the financial genius who dominated
more than one powerful group in the city, who controlled a ring of theaters in London and the
provinces, who had declined a knighthood, and would surely be created a peer with the next
change of government,--that he should openly declare himself a suitor for the hand of a penniless
girl was a sensation with a vengeance. His description of Millicent as an ex-chorus girl offered
another bonne bouche to the crowd. She would never again skip airily behind the footlights
of the Wellington, or any other important theater in England. So far as she was concerned,
the musical comedy candle that succeeded to the sacred lamp of West End burlesque was snuffed out.

Millicent was actress enough not to flinch from the goad. "A charming and proper sentiment,"
she cried with well simulated flippancy. "The marriage of Mr. Mark Bower will be quite a fashionable
event, provided always that he secures the assent of the American gentleman who is paying his
future wife's expenses during her present holiday."

Now, so curiously constituted is human nature, or the shallow worldliness that passes current
for it among the homeless gadabouts who pose as British society on the Continent, that already
the current of opinion in the hotel was setting steadily in Helen's favor. The remarkable change
dated from the moment of Bower's public announcement of his matrimonial plans. Many of those
present were regretting a lost opportunity. It was obvious to the meanest intelligence--and
the worn phrase took a new vitality when applied to some among the company--that any kindness
shown to Helen during the preceding fortnight would be repaid a hundredfold when she became
Mrs. Mark Bower. Again, not even the bitterest of her critics could allege that she was flirting
with the quiet mannered American who had just carried her off like a new Paris. She had lived
in the same hotel for a whole week without speaking a word to him. If anything, she had shown
favor only to Bower, and that in a way so decorous and discreet that more than one woman there
was amazed by her careless handling of a promising situation. Just give one of them the chance
of securing such a prize fish as this stalwart millionaire! Well, at least he should not miss
the hook for lack of a bait.

Oddly enough, the Rev. Philip Hare gave voice to a general sentiment when he interfered in
the duel. He, like others, was waiting for his letters. He saw Helen come in, and was hurrying
to offer his congratulations on her escape from the storm, when the appearance of Millicent
prevented him from speaking at once. The little man was hot with vexation at the scene that
followed. He liked Helen; he was unutterably shocked by Millicent's attack; and he resented
the unfair and untrue construction that must be placed on her latest innuendo.

"As one who has made Miss Wynton's acquaintance in this hotel," he broke in vehemently, "I
must protest most emphatically against the outrageous statement we have just heard. If I may
say it, it is unworthy of the lady who is responsible for it. I know nothing of your quarrel,
nor do I wish to figure in it; but I do declare, on my honor as a clergyman of the Church of
England, that Miss Wynton's conduct in Maloja has in no way lent itself to the inference one
is compelled to draw from the words used."

"Thank you, Mr. Hare," said Bower quietly, and a subdued murmur of applause buzzed through
the gathering.

There is a legend in Zermatt that Saint Theodule, patron of the Valais, wishing to reach Rome
in a hurry, sought demoniac aid to surmount the impassable barrier of the Alps. Opening his
window, he saw three devils dancing merrily on the housetops. He called them. "Which of you
is the speediest?" he asked. "I," said one, "I am swift as the wind."--"Bah!" cried the second,
"I can fly like a bullet."--"These two talk idly," said the third. "I am quick as the thought
of a woman." The worthy prelate chose the third. The hour being late, he bargained that he
should be carried to Rome and back before cockcrow, the price for the service to be his saintly
soul. The imp flew well, and returned to the valley of the Rhone long ere dawn. Joyous at his
gain, he was about to bound over the wall of the episcopal city of Sion, when St. Theodule
roared lustily, "Coq, chante! Que tu chantes! Ou que jamais plus tu ne chantes!" Every cock
in Sion awoke at his voice, and raised such a din that the devil dropped a bell given to his
saintship by the Holy Father, and Saint Theodule was snug and safe inside it.

The prelate was right in his choice of the third. The thoughts of two women took wings instantly.
Mrs. de la Vere, throwing away a half-smoked cigarette, hurried out of the veranda. Millicent
Jaques, whose carriage was ready for the long drive to St. Moritz, decided to remain in Maloja.

The outer door opened, with a rush of cold air and a whirl of snow. People expected the postman;
but Stampa entered,--only Stampa, the broken survivor of the little band of guides who conquered
the Matterhorn. He doffed his Alpine hat, and seemed to be embarrassed by the unusually large
throng assembled in the passageway. Bower saw him, and strode away into the dimly lighted foyer.

"Pardon, 'sieurs et 'dames," said Stampa, advancing with his uneven gait, a venerable and pathetic
figure, the wreck of a giant, a man who had aged years in a single day. He went to the bureau,
and asked permission to seek Herr Spencer in his room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Helen was struggling back to consciousness when Mrs. de la Vere joined the kindly women who
were loosening her bodice and chafing her hands and feet.

The first words the girl heard were in English. A woman's voice was saying cheerfully, "There,
my dear!" a simple formula of marvelous recuperative effect,--"there now! You are all right
again. But your room is bitterly cold. Won't you come into mine? It is quite near, and my stove
has been alight all day."

Helen, opening her eyes, found herself gazing up at Mrs. de la Vere. Real sympathy ranks high
among good deeds. The girl's lips quivered. Returning life brought with it tears.

The woman whom she had regarded as a social butterfly sat beside her on the bed and placed
a friendly arm round her neck. "Don't cry, you dear thing," she cooed gently. "There is nothing
to cry about. You are a bit overwrought, of course; but, as it happens, you have scored heavily
off all of us--and not least off the creature who upset you. Now, do try and come with me.
Here are your slippers. The corridor is empty. It is only a few steps."

"Come with you?"

"Yes, you are shivering with the cold, and my room is gloriously warm."

"But----"

"There are no buts. Marie will bring a basin of nice hot soup. While you are drinking it she
will set your stove going. I know exactly how you feel. The whole world is topsyturvy, and
you don't think there is a smile in your make-up, as that dear American man who carried you
here would say."

Helen recovered her senses with exceeding rapidity. Mrs. de la Vere was already leading her
to the door.

"What! Mr. Spencer--did he----"

"He did. Come, now. I shall tell you all the trying details when you are seated in my easy
chair, and wrapped in the duckiest Shetland shawl that a red headed laird sent me last Christmas.
Excellent! Of course you can walk! Isn't every other woman in the hotel well aware how you
got that lovely figure? Yes, in that chair. And here is the shawl. It's just like being cuddled
by a woolly lamb."

Mrs. de la Vere turned the keys in two doors. "Reggie always knocks," she explained; "but some
inquisitive cat may follow me here, and I am sure you don't wish to be gushed over now, after
everybody has been so horrid to you."

"You were not," said Helen gratefully.

"Yes, I was, in a way. I hate most women; but I admired you ever since you took the conceit
out of that giddy husband of mine. If I didn't speak, it arose from sheer laziness--a sort
of drifting with the stream, in tow of the General and that old mischief maker, Mrs. Vavasour.
I'm sorry, and you will be quite justified to-morrow morning in sailing past me and the rest
as though we were beetles."

Then Helen laughed, feebly, it is true, but with a genuine mirth that chased away momentarily
the evergrowing memory of Millicent's injustice. "Why do you mention beetles?" she asked. "It
is part of my every day work to classify them."

Mrs. de la Vere was puzzled. "I believe you have said something very cutting," she cried. "If
you did, we deserve it. But please tell me the joke. I shall hand it on to the Wraggs."

"There is no joke. I act as secretary to a German professor of entomology--insects, you know;
he makes beetles a specialty."

The other woman's eye danced. "It is all very funny," she said, "and I still have my doubts.
Never mind. I want to atone for earlier shortcomings. I felt that someone really ought to tell
you what took place in the outer foyer after you sank gracefully out of the act. Mr. Bower----"

A tap on the door leading into the corridor interrupted her. It was Marie, armed with chicken
broth and dry toast. Mrs. de la Vere, who seemed to be filled with an honest anxiety to place
Helen at her ease, persuaded her to begin sipping the compound.

"Well, what did Mr. Bower do?" demanded Helen, who was wondering now why she had fainted. The
accusation brought against her by Millicent Jaques was untrue. Why should it disturb her so
gravely? It did not occur to her that the true cause was physical,--a too sudden change of
temperature.

"He sat on that young woman from the Wellington Theater very severely, I assure you. From her
manner we all imagined she had some sort of claim on him; but if she was laboring under any
such delusion he cured her. He said--Are you really strong enough to stand a shock?"

"Twenty shocks. I can't think how I could have been so silly----"

"Nerves, my dear. We all have 'em. Sometimes, if I didn't smoke I should scream. No woman really
likes to see her husband flirting openly with her friends. I'm no saint; but my wickedness
is defensive. Now, are you ready?"

"Quite ready."

"Mr. Bower told us, tout le monde, you know, that he meant to marry you."

"Oh!" said Helen.

During an appreciable pause neither woman spoke. Helen was not sure whether she wanted to laugh
or be angry. Mrs. de la Vere eyed her curiously. The girl's face was yet white and drawn. It
was impossible to guess how the great news affected her. The de la Veres were poor on two thousand
a year. What did it feel like to be the prospective bride of a millionaire, especially when
you were--what was it?--secretary to a man who collected beetles!

"Did Mr. Bower assign any reason for making that remarkable statement?" said Helen at last.

"He explained that the fact--I suppose it is a fact--would safeguard you from the malice of
an ex-coryphée. Indeed, he put it more brutally. He spoke of the 'slanderous malice of an ex-chorus
girl.' The English term sounds a trifle harsher than the French, don't you think?"

It began to dawn on Helen that Mrs. de la Vere's friendliness might have a somewhat sordid
foundation. Was she tending her merely to secure the freshest details of an affair that must
be causing many tongues to wag?

"I am acquiring new theories of life since I came to Maloja," she said slowly. "One would have
thought that I might be the first person to be made aware of Mr. Bower's intentions."

"Oh, this is really too funny. May I light a cigarette?"

"Please do. And now it is my turn to ask you to point out the exquisite humor of the situation."

"Don't be vexed with me, child. You needn't say another word if you don't wish it; but surely
you are not annoyed because I have given you the tip as to what took place in the hall?"

"You have been exceedingly good----"

"No. I haven't. I was just as nasty as the others, and I sneered like the rest when Bower showed
up a fortnight since. I was wrong, and I apologize for it. Regard me as in sackcloth and ashes.
But my heart went out to you when you dropped like a log among all those staring people. I've--I've
done it myself, and my case was worse than yours. Once in my life I loved a man, and I came
home one day from the hunting field to read a telegram from the War Office. He was 'missing,'
it said--missing--in a rear-guard action in Tirah. Do you know what that means?"

A cloud of smoke hid her face; but it could not stifle the sob in her voice. There was a knock
at the door.

"Are you there, Edith?" demanded Reginald de la Vere.

"Yes. Go away! I'm busy."

"But----"

"Go away, I tell you!"

Then she jerked a scornful hand toward the door. "Six months later I was married--men who are
missed among the Afridis don't come back," she said.

"I'm more sorry than I can put into words!" murmured Helen.

"For goodness' sake don't let us grow sentimental. Shall we return to our sheep? Don't be afraid
that I shall pasture the goats in the hall on your confidences. Hasn't Bower asked you?"

"No."

"Then his action was all the more generous. He meant to squelch that friend of yours--is she
your friend?"

"She used to be," said Helen sadly.

"And what do you mean to do about it? You will marry Bower, of course?"

Helen's heart fluttered. Her color rose in a sudden wave. "I--I don't think so," she breathed.

"Don't you? Well, I like you the better for saying so. I can picture myself putting the same
questions to one of the Wragg girls--to both of 'em, in fact. I am older than you, and very
much wiser in some of the world's ways, and my advice is, Don't marry any man unless you are
sure you love him. If you do love him, you may keep him, for men are patient creatures. But
that is for you to decide. I can't help you there. I am mainly concerned, for the moment, in
helping you over the ice during the next day or two--if you will let me, that is. Probably
you have determined not to appear in public to-night. That will be a mistake. Wear your prettiest
frock, and dine with Reggie and me. We shall invite Mr. Bower to join us, and two other people--some
man and woman I can depend on to keep things going. If we laugh and kick up no end of a noise,
it will not only worry the remainder of the crowd, but you score heavily off the theatrical
lady. See?"

"I can see that you are acting the part of the good Samaritan," cried Helen.

"Oh, dear, no--nothing so antiquated. Look at your future position--the avowed wife of a millionaire.
Eh, what? as Georgie says."

"But I am not anything of the kind. Mr. Bower----"

"Mr. Bower is all right. He has the recognized history of the man who makes a good husband,
and you can't help liking him, unless--unless there is another man."

"There, at least, I am----" Helen hesitated. Something gripped her heart and checked the modest
protestation of her freedom.

Mrs. de la Vere laughed. "If you are not sure, you are safe," she said, with a hard ring in
her utterance that belied her easygoing philosophy. "Really, you bring me back a lost decade.
Now, Helen--may I call you Helen?"

"Yes, indeed."

"Well, then, don't forget that my name is Edith. You have just half an hour to dress. I need
every second of the time; so off you run to your room. As I hear Reggie flinging his boots
around next door, I shall hurry him and arrange about the table. Call for me. We must go to
the foyer together. Now kiss me, there's a dear."

Helen was wrestling with her refractory tresses--for the coiffure that suits glaciers and Tam
o'Shanters is not permissible in evening dress--when a servant brought her a note.

     "DEAR MISS WYNTON," it ran,--"If you are able to come down
     to dinner, why not dine with me? Sincerely,

                              "CHARLES K. SPENCER."

She blushed and laughed a little. "I am in demand," she thought, flashing a pardonable glance
at her own face in the mirror. She read the brief invitation again. Spencer had a trick of
printing the K in his signature. It caught her fancy. It suggested strength, trustworthiness.
She did not know then that one of the shrewdest scoundrels in the Western States had already
commented on certain qualities betokened by that letter in Spencer's name.

"I cannot refuse," she murmured. "To be candid, I don't want to refuse. What shall I do?"

Bidding the servant wait, she twisted her hair into a coil, threw a wrap round her shoulders,
and tapped on Mrs. de la Vere's door.

"Entrez!" cried that lady.

"I am in a bit of difficulty," said Helen. "Mr. Spencer wishes me to dine with him. Would you----"

"Certainly. I'll ask him to join us. Reggie will see him too. Really, Helen, this is amusing.
I am beginning to suspect you."

So Spencer received a surprising answer. He read it without any sign of the amusement Mrs.
de la Vere extracted from the situation, for Helen took care to recite the whole arrangement.

"I'm going through with this," he growled savagely, "even if I have to drink Bower's health--damn
him!"

CHAPTER XII

THE ALLIES

Seldom, if ever, has a more strangely assorted party met at dinner than that which gathered
in the Hotel Kursaal under the social wing of Mrs. de la Vere. Her husband, while being coached
in essentials, was the first to discover its incongruities.

"Where Miss Wynton is concerned, you are warned off," his wife told him dryly. "You must console
yourself with Mrs. Badminton-Smythe. She will stand anything to cut out a younger and prettier
woman."

"Where do you come in, Edie?" said he; for Mrs. de la Vere's delicate aristocratic beauty seemed
to be the natural complement of her sporting style, and to-night there was a wistful charm
in her face that the lively Reginald had not seen there before.

She turned aside, busying herself with her toilet. "I don't come in. I went out five years
ago," she cried, with a mocking laugh.

"Do you know," he muttered, "I often wonder why the deuce you an' I got married."

"Because, sweet Reginald, we were made for each other by a wise Providence. What other woman
of your acquaintance would tolerate you--as a husband?"

"Oh, dash it all! if it comes to that----"

"For goodness' sake, don't fuss, or begin to think. Run away and interview the head waiter.
Then you are to buttonhole Bower and the American. I am just sending a chit to the Badminton-Smythes."

"Who is my partner?"

"Lulu, of course."

De la Vere was puzzled, and looked it. "I suppose it is all right," he growled. "Still, I can't
help thinking you've got something up your sleeve, Edie."

She stamped a very pretty foot angrily. "Do as I tell you! Didn't you hear what Bower said?
He will be everlastingly obliged to us for coming to the rescue in this fashion. Next time
you have a flutter in the city, his friendship may be useful."

"By gad!" cried Reginald, beginning, as he fancied, to see light, "something seems to have
bitten you this evening. Tell you what--Lulu is a non-runner. Get Bower to put you on to a
soft thing in Africans, an' you an' I will have a second honeymoon in Madeira next winter.
Honor bright! I mean it."

She seized a silver mounted brush from the dressing table with the obvious intent of speeding
his departure. He dodged out, and strolled down the corridor.

"Never saw Edie in that sort of tantrum before," he said to himself. "If she only knew how
sick I was of all this jolly rot, p'r'aps we'd run better in double harness."

So it came to pass, when the company assembled in the great dining room, that Bower sat on
Mrs. de la Vere's left, and Spencer on her right. Beyond them, respectively, were Lulu Badminton-Smythe
and her husband, and between these latter were de la Vere and Helen. Thus, the girl was separated
from the two men whom her shrewd eyed hostess had classed as rivals, while the round table
made possible a general conversation.

The talk could hardly fail to turn on the day's adventures. Spencer, who had never before in
his life thrust himself forward in a social gathering, did so now with fixed purpose. He meant
to eclipse Bower in a territory where that polished man of the world was accustomed to reign
unchallenged. But he had the wisdom to wait. He guessed, not without good cause, that more
than one late arrival would pause beside their table and make polite inquiries as to the climbers'
well being. These interruptions were fatal to Bower's well balanced periods. The journey to
the hut, therefore, was dealt with jerkily.

When Spencer took up the thread, he caught and held the attention of his hearers. In this he
was helped considerably by his quaint idioms. To English ears, American expressions are always
amusing. Spencer, of course, could speak quite as correct English as anyone present; but he
realized that in this instance a certain amount of picturesque exaggeration would lend itself
to humor. His quick ear too had missed none of the queer mixture of prayers and objurgations
with which Karl and the two guides hailed every incident. His selections set them all in a
roar. In fact, they were the liveliest party in the room. Many an eye was drawn by a merriment
that offered such striking contrast to the dramatic episode in the outer hall.

"The one person missing from that crowd is the stage lady," was Miss Gladys Wragg's caustic
comment, when Badminton-Smythe evoked a fresh outburst by protesting that he forgot to eat
his fish owing to Spencer's beastly funny yarn.

And Miss Wragg's criticism was justified. It only needed Millicent's presence to add a wizard's
touch to the amazement with which Mrs. Vavasour and others of her kind regarded the defection
of the de la Veres and the Badminton-Smythes. But Millicent was dining in her own room. The
last thing she dreamed of was that Helen would face the other residents in the hotel after
the ordeal she had gone through an hour earlier. She half expected that Bower would endeavor
to meet her privately while dinner was being served. She was ready for him. She prepared a
number of sarcastic little speeches, each with a subtle venom of its own, and even rehearsed
a pose or two with a view toward scenic effect. But she had neither taken Bower's measure nor
counted on Mrs. de la Vere's superior strategy. All that happened was that she ate a lukewarm
meal, and was left to wonder at her one-time admirer's boldness in accepting a situation that
many a daring man would have striven to evade.

After dinner it was the custom of the habitués to break up into small groups and arrange the
night's amusement. Dancing claimed the younger element, while card games had their devotees.
Mrs. de la Vere danced invariably; but to-night she devoted herself to Helen. She was under
no illusions. Bower and Spencer were engaged in a quiet duel, and the victor meant to monopolize
the girl for the remainder of the evening. That was preventable. They could fight their battle
on some other occasion. At present there was one thing of vital importance,--the unpleasant
impression created by the actress's bitter attack must be dissipated, and Mrs. de la Vere,
secretly marveling at her own enthusiasm, aimed at the achievement.

"Don't be drawn away from me on any pretext," she whispered, linking her arm through Helen's
as they passed out into the foyer. "And be gracious to everybody, even to those who have been
most cattish."

Helen was far too excited and grateful to harbor animosity. Moreover, she dreaded the chance
of being left alone with Bower. As he had already declared his intentions publicly, she was
sure he would seize the first opportunity to ask her to marry him. And what would be her answer?
She hardly knew. She must have time to think. She must search her own heart. She almost flinched
from the succeeding thought,--was it that her soul had found another mate? If that was so,
she must refuse Bower, though the man she was learning to love might pass out of her life and
leave her desolate.

She liked Bower, even respected him. Never for an instant had the notion intruded that he had
followed her to Switzerland with an unworthy motive. To her mind, nothing could be more straightforward
than their acquaintance. The more she reflected on Millicent Jaques's extraordinary conduct,
the more she was astounded by its utter baselessness. And Bower was admirable in many ways.
He stood high in the opinion of the world. He was rich, cultured, and seemingly very deeply
enamored of her undeserving self. What better husband could any girl desire? He would give
her everything that made life worth living. Indeed, if the truth must be told, she was phenomenally
lucky.

Thus did she strive to silence misgivings, to quell doubt, to order and regulate a blurred
medley of subconscious thought. While laughing, and talking, and making the most successful
efforts to be at ease with the dozens of people who came and spoke to Mrs. de la Vere and herself,
she felt like some frail vessel dancing blithely in a swift, smooth current, yet hastening
ever to the verge of a cataract.

Once Bower approached, skillfully piloting Mrs. Badminton-Smythe; for Reginald, tiring of the
rôle thrust on him by his wife, had gone to play bridge. It was his clear intent to take Helen
from her chaperon.

"It is still snowing, though not so heavily," he said. "Come on the veranda, and look at the
landscape. The lake is a pool of ink in the middle of a white table cloth."

"The snow will be far more visible in the morning, and we have a lot of ice to melt here,"
interposed Mrs. de la Vere quickly.

The man and woman, both well versed in the ways of society, looked each other squarely in the
eye. Though disappointed, the man understood, was even appreciative.

"Miss Wynton is fortunate in her friends," he said, and straightway went to the writing room.
He felt that Helen was safe with this unexpected ally. He could afford to bide his time. Nothing
could now undo the effect of his open declaration while flouting Millicent Jaques. If he gave
that wayward young person a passing thought, it was one of gladness that she had precipitated
matters. There remained only an unpleasant meeting with Stampa in the morning. He shuddered
at the recollection that he had nearly done a foolish thing while crossing the crevasse. What
sinister influence could have so weakened his nerve as to make him think of murder? Crime was
the last resource of impaired intellect. He was able to laugh now at the stupid memory of it.

True, the American----

By the way, what did Millicent mean by her shrewish cry that Spencer was paying for Helen's
holiday? So engrossed was he in other directions that his early doubts with regard to "The
Firefly's" unprecedented enterprise in sending a representative to this out-of-the-way Swiss
valley had been lulled to sleep. Of course, he had caused certain inquiries to be made--that
was his method. One of the telegrams he dispatched from Zurich after Helen's train bustled
off to Coire started the investigation. Thus far, a trusted clerk could only ascertain that
the newspaper had undoubtedly commissioned the girl on the lines indicated. Still, the point
demanded attention. He resolved to telegraph further instructions in the morning, with Spencer's
name added as a clew, though, to be sure, he was not done with Millicent yet. He would reckon
with her also on the morrow. Perhaps, if he annoyed her sufficiently, she might explain that
cryptic taunt.

Could he have seen a letter that was brought to Spencer's room before dinner, the telegram
would not have been written. Mackenzie, rather incoherent with indignation, sent a hurried scrawl.

     "DEAR MR. SPENCER," it ran,--"A devil of a thing has
     happened. To-day," the date being three days old, "I went
     out to lunch, leaving a thick headed subeditor in charge. I
     had not been gone ten minutes when a stage fairy, all frills
     and flounces, whisked into the office and asked for Miss
     Wynton's address. My assistant succumbed instantly. He was
     nearly asphyxiated with joy at being permitted to entertain,
     not unawares, that angel of musical comedy, Miss Millicent
     Jaques. His maundering excuse is that you yourself seemed to
     acknowledge Miss Jaques's right to be acquainted with her
     friend's whereabouts. I have good reason to believe that the
     frail youth not only spoke of Maloja, but supplied such
     details as were known to him of your kindness in the matter.
     I have cursed him extensively; but that can make no amends.
     At any rate, I feel that you should be told, and it only
     remains for me to express my lasting regret that the
     incident should have occurred."

This letter, joined to certain lurid statements made by Stampa, had induced Spencer to accept
Mrs. de la Vere's invitation. Little as he cared to dine in Bower's company, it was due to
Helen that he should not refuse. He was entangled neck and heels in a net of his own contriving.
For very shame's sake, he could not wriggle out, leaving Helen in the toils.

Surely there never was a day more crammed with contrarieties. He witnessed his adversary's
rebuff, and put it down to its rightful cause. No sooner had he discovered Mrs. de la Vere's
apparent motive in keeping the girl by her side, than he was buttonholed by the Rev. Philip Hare.

"You know I am not an ardent admirer of Bower," said the cleric; "but I must admit that it
was very manly of him to make that outspoken statement about Miss Wynton."

"What statement?" asked Spencer.

"Ah, I had forgotten. You were not present, of course. He made the other woman's hysterical
outburst supremely ridiculous by saying, in effect, that he meant to marry Miss Wynton."

"He said that, eh?"

"Yes. He was quite emphatic. I rebuked Miss Jaques myself, and he thanked me."

"Everything was nicely cut and dried in my absence, it seems."

"Well--er----"

"The crowd evidently lost sight of the fact that I had carried off the prospective bride."

"N-no. Miss Jaques called attention to it."

"Guess her head is screwed on straight, padre. She made a bad break in attacking Miss Wynton;
but when she set about Bower she was running on a strong scent. Sit tight, Mr. Hare. Don't
take sides, or whoop up the wrong spout, and you'll see heaps of fun before you're much older."

Mightily incensed, the younger man turned away. The vicar produced his handkerchief and trumpeted
into it loudly.

"God bless my soul!" he said, and repeated the pious wish, for he felt that it did him good,
"how does one whoop up the wrong spout? And what happens if one does? And how remarkably touchy
everybody seems to be. Next time I apply to the C.M.S. for an Alpine station, I shall stipulate
for a low altitude. I am sure this rarefied air is bad for the nerves."

Nevertheless, Hare's startling communication was the one thing needed to clear away the doubts
that beset Spencer at the dinner table. He had seen Mrs. de la Vere enter Helen's bedroom when
he left the girl in charge of a gesticulating maid; but an act of womanly solicitude did not
explain the friendship that sprang so suddenly into existence. Now he understood, or thought
he understood, which is a man's way when he seeks to interpret a woman's mind. Mrs. de la Vere,
like the rest, was dazzled by Bower's wealth. After ignoring Helen during the past fortnight,
she was prepared to toady to her instantly in her new guise as the chosen bride of a millionaire.
The belief added fuel to the fire already raging in his breast.

There never was man more loyal to woman in his secret meditations than Spencer; but his gorge
rose at the sight of Helen's winsome gratitude to one so unworthy of it. With him, now as ever,
to think was to act.

Watching his chance, he waylaid Helen when her vigilant chaperon was momentarily absorbed in
a suggestion that private theatricals and the rehearsal of a minuet would relieve the general
tedium while the snow held.

"Spare me five minutes, Miss Wynton," he said. "I want to tell you something."

Mrs. de la Vere pirouetted round on him before the girl could answer.

"Miss Wynton is just going to bed," she informed him graciously. "You know how tired she is,
Mr. Spencer. You must wait till the morning."

"I don't feel like waiting; but I promise to cut down my remarks to one minute--by the clock."
He answered Mrs. de la Vere, but looked at Helen.

Her color rose and fell almost with each beat of her heart. She saw the steadfast purpose in
his eyes, and shrank from the decision she would be called upon to make. Hardly realizing what
form the words took, she gave faint utterance to the first lucid idea that presented itself.
"I think--I must really--go to my room," she murmured. "You wouldn't--like me--to faint twice
in one evening--Mr. Spencer?"

It was an astonishing thing to say, the worst thing possible. It betrayed an exact knowledge
of his purpose in seeking this interview. His eyes blazed with a quick light. It seemed that
he was answered before he spoke.

"Not one second. Go away, do!" broke in Mrs. de la Vere, whisking Helen toward the elevator
without further parley. But she shot a glance at Spencer over her shoulder that he could not
fail to interpret as a silent message of encouragement. Forthwith he viewed her behavior from
a more favorable standpoint.

"Guess the feminine make-up is more complex than I counted on," he communed, as he bent over
a table to find a match, that being a commonplace sort of action calculated to disarm suspicion,
lest others might be observing him, and wondering why the women retired so promptly.

"I like your American, my dear," said Mrs. de la Vere sympathetically, in the solitude of the
corridor.

Helen was silent.

"If you want to cry, don't mind me," went on the kindly cynic. "I'm coming in with you. I'll
light up while you weep, and then you must tell me all about it. That will do you a world of good."

"There's n-n-nothing to tell!" bleated Helen.

"Oh yes, there is. You silly child, to-morrow you will have to choose between those two men.
Which shall it be? I said before dinner that I couldn't help you to decide. Perhaps I was mistaken.
Anyhow, I'll try."

       *       *       *       *       *

At midnight the snow storm ceased, the wind died away, and the still air deposited its vapor
on hills and valley in a hoar frost. The sun rose with a magnificent disregard for yesterday's
riot.

Spencer's room faced the southeast. When the valet drew his blind in the morning the cold room
was filled with a balmy warmth. A glance through the window, however, dispelled a germ of hope
that Helen and he might start on the promised walk to Vicosoprano. The snow lay deep in the
pass, and probably extended a mile or two down into the Vale of Bregaglia. The rapid thaw that
would set in during the forenoon might clear the roads before sunset. Next day, walking would
be practicable; to-day it meant wading.

He looked through the Orlegna gorge, and caught the silvery sheen of the Cima di Rosso's snow
capped summit. Hardly a rock was visible. The gale had clothed each crag with a white shroud.
All day long the upper reaches of the glacier would be pelted by avalanches. It struck him
that an early stroll to the highest point of the path beyond Cavloccio might be rewarded with
a distant view of several falls. In any case, it provided an excellent pretext for securing
Helen's company, and he would have cheerfully suggested a trip in a balloon to attain the same
object.

The temperature of his bath water induced doubts as to the imminence of the thaw. Indeed, the
air was bitterly cold as yet. The snow lay closely on roads and meadow land. It had the texture
of fine powder. Passing traffic left shallow, well defined marks. A couple of stablemen swung
their arms to restore circulation. The breath of horses and cattle showed in dense clouds.

For once in his life the color of a tie and the style of his clothes became matters of serious
import. At first, he was blind to the humor of it. He hesitated between the spruce tightness
of a suit fashioned by a New York tailor and the more loosely designed garments he had purchased
in London. Then he laughed and reddened. Flinging both aside, he chose the climber's garb worn
the previous day, and began to dress hurriedly. Therein he was well advised. Nothing could
better become his athletic figure. He was that type of man who looks thinner when fully clothed.
He had never spared himself when asking others to work hard, and he received his guerdon now
in a frame of iron and sinews of pliant steel.

Helen usually came down to breakfast at half-past eight. She had the healthy British habit
of beginning the day with a good meal, and Spencer indulged in the conceit that he might be
favored with a tête-à-tête before they started for the projected walk. Neither Bower nor Mrs.
de la Vere ever put in an appearance at that hour. Though Americans incline to the Continental
manner of living, this true Westerner found himself a sudden convert to English methods. In
a word, he was in love, and his lady could not err. To please her he was prepared to abjure
iced water--even to drink tea.

But, as often happens, his cheery mood was destined to end in disappointment. He lingered a
whole hour in the salle à manger, but Helen came not. Then he rose in a panic. What if she
had breakfasted in her room, and was already basking in the sunlit veranda--perhaps listening
to Bower's eloquence? He rushed out so suddenly that his waiter was amazed. Really, these Americans
were incomprehensible--weird as the English. The two races dwelt far apart, but they moved
in the same erratic orbit. To the stolid German mind they were human comets, whose comings
and goings were not to be gaged by any reasonable standard.

No, the veranda was empty--to him. Plenty of people greeted him; but there was no Helen. Ultimately
he reflected that their appointment was for ten o'clock. He calmed down, and a pipe became
obvious. He was enjoying that supremest delight of the smoker--the first soothing whiffs of
the day's tobacco--when a servant brought him a note. The handwriting was strange to his eyes;
but a premonition told him that it was Helen's. Somehow, he expected that she would write in
a clear, strong, legible way. He was not mistaken. She sent a friendly little message that
she was devoting the morning to work. The weather made it impossible to go to Vicosoprano,
and in any event she did not feel equal to a long walk. "Yesterday's events," she explained,
"took more out of me than I imagined."

Well, she had been thinking of him, and that counted. He was staring at the snow covered tennis
courts, and wondering how soon the valley would regain its summer aspect, when Stampa limped
into sight round the corner of the hotel. He stood at the foot of the broad flight of steps,
as though waiting for someone. Spencer was about to join him for a chat, when he recollected
that Bower and the guide had an arrangement to meet in the morning.

With the memory came a queer jumble of impressions. Stampa's story, told overnight, was a sad
one; but the American was too fair minded to affect a moral detestation of Bower because of
a piece of folly that wrecked a girl's life sixteen years ago. If the sins of a man's youth
were to shadow his whole life, then charity and regeneration must be cast out of the scheme
of things. Moreover, Bower's version of the incident might put a new face on it. There was
no knowing how he too had been tempted and suffered. That he raged against the resurrection
of a bygone misdeed was shown by his mad impulse to kill Stampa on the glacier. That such a
man, strong in the power of his wealth and social position, should even dream of blotting out
the past by a crime, offered the clearest proof of the frenzy that possessed him as soon as
he recognized Etta Stampa's father.

Not one word of his personal belief crossed Spencer's lips during the talk with the guide.
Rather did he impress on his angry and vengeful hearer that a forgotten scandal should be left
in its tomb. He took this line, not that he posed as a moralist, but because he hated to acknowledge,
even to himself, that he was helped in his wooing by Helen's horror of his rival's lapse from
the standard every pure minded woman sets up in her ideal lover. Ethically, he might be wrong;
in his conscience he was justified. He had suffered too grievously from every species of intrigue
and calumny during his own career not to be ultra-sensitive in regard to the use of such agents.

Yet, watching the bent and crippled old man waiting there in the snow, a sense of pity and
mourning chilled his heart with ice cold touch.

"If I were Stampa's son, if that dead girl were my sister, how would I settle with Bower?"
he asked, clenching his pipe firmly between his teeth. "Well, I could only ask God to be merciful
both to him and to me."

"Good gracious, Mr. Spencer! why that fierce gaze at our delightful valley?" came the voice
of Mrs. de la Vere. "I am glad none of us can give you the address of the Swiss clerk of the
weather--or you would surely slay him."

He turned. Convention demanded a smile and a polite greeting; but Spencer was not conventional.
"You are a thought reader, Mrs. de la Vere," he said.

"'One of my many attractions,' you should have added."

"I find this limpid light too critical."

"Oh, what a horrid thing to tell any woman, especially in the early morning!"

"I have a wretched habit of putting the second part of a sentence first. I really intended
to say--but it is too late."

"It is rather like swallowing the sugar coating after the pill; but I'll try."

"Well, then, this crystal atmosphere does not lend itself to the obvious. If we were in London,
I should catalogue your bewitchments lest you imagined I was blind to them."

"That sounds nice, but----"

"It demands analysis, so I have failed doubly."

"I don't feel up to talking like a character in one of Henry James's novels. And you were much
more amusing last night. Have you seen Miss Jaques this morning?"

"No. That is, I don't think so."

"Do you know her?"

"No."

"It would be a kind thing if someone told her that there are other places in Switzerland where
she will command the general admiration she deserves."

"I am inclined to believe that there is a man in the hotel who can put that notion before her
delicately."

Spencer possessed the unchanging gravity of expression that the whole American race seems to
have borrowed from the Red Indian. Mrs. de la Vere's eyes twinkled as she gazed at him.

"You didn't hear what was said last night," she murmured. "Where Millicent Jaques is concerned,
delicacy is absent from Mr. Bower's make-up--is that good New York?"

"It would be understood."

This time he smiled. Mrs. de la Vere wished to be a friend to Helen. Whatsoever her motive,
the wish was excellent.

"You are severe," she pouted. "Of course I ought not to mimic you----"

"Pray do. I had no idea I spoke so nicely."

"Thank you. But I am serious. I have espoused Miss Wynton's cause, and there will be nothing
but unhappiness for her while that other girl remains here."

"I hope you are mistaken," he said slowly, meeting her quizzing glance without flinching.

"That is precisely where a woman's point of view differs from a man's," she countered. "In
our lives we are swayed by things that men despise. We are conscious of sidelong looks and
whisperings. We dread the finger of scorn. When you have a wife, Mr. Spencer, you will begin
to realize the limitations of the feminine horizon."

"Are you asking me to take this demonstrative young lady in hand?"

"I believe you would succeed."

Spencer smiled again. He had not credited Mrs. de la Vere with such fine perceptiveness. If
her words meant anything, they implied an alliance, offensive and defensive, for Helen's benefit
and his own.

"Guess we'll leave it right there till I've had a few words with Miss Wynton," he said, dropping
suddenly into colloquial phrase.

"A heart to heart talk, in fact." She laughed pleasantly, and opened her cigarette case.

"Tell you what, Mrs. de la Vere," he said, "if ever you come to Colorado I shall hail you as
a real cousin!"

Then a silence fell between them. Bower was walking out of the hotel. He passed close in front
of the glass partition, and might have seen them if his eyes were not as preoccupied as his
mind. But he was looking at Stampa, and frowning in deep thought. The guide heard his slow,
heavy tread, and turned. The two met. They exchanged no word, but went away together, the lame
peasant hobbling along by the side of the tall, well dressed plutocrat.

"How odd!" said Mrs. de la Vere. "How exceedingly odd!"

CHAPTER XIII

THE COMPACT

"Now, what have you to say? We are safe from meddlers here."

Bower spoke curtly. Stampa and he were halfway across the narrow strip of undulating meadow
land which shut off the hotel from the village. They had followed the footpath, a busy thoroughfare
bombarded with golf balls on fine mornings, but likely to be unfrequented till the snow melted.
Receiving no answer, Bower glanced sharply at his companion; but the old guide might be unaware
of his presence, so steadily did he trudge onward, with downcast, introspective eyes. Resolved
to make an end of a silence that was irksome, Bower halted.

Then, for the first time, Stampa opened his lips. "Not here," he said.

"Why not? We are alone."

"You must come with me, Herr Baron."

"That is not my title."

"It used to be. It will serve as well as any other."

"I refuse to stir a yard farther."

"Then," said Stampa, "I will kill you where you stand!"

Neither in voice nor feature did he exhibit any emotion. He merely put forward an all-sufficing
reason, and left it at that.

Bower was no coward. Though the curiously repressed manner of the threat sent a wave of blood
from his face to his heart, he strode suddenly nearer. Ready and eager to grapple with his
adversary before a weapon could be drawn, he peered into the peasant's care lined face.

"So that is your plan, is it?" he said thickly. "You would entice me to some lonely place,
where you can shoot or stab me at your own good pleasure. Fool! I can overpower you instantly,
and have you sent to a jail or a lunatic asylum for the rest of your life."

"I carry no knife, nor can I use a pistol, Herr Baron," was the unruffled answer. "I do not
need them. My hands are enough. You are a man, a big, strong man, with all a man's worst passions.
Have you never felt that you could tear your enemy with your nails, choke him till the bones
of his neck crackled, and his tongue lolled out like a panting dog's? That is how I too may
feel if you deny my request. And I will kill you, Marcus Bauer! As sure as God is in Heaven,
I will kill you!"

Fear now lent its blind fury to the instinct of self preservation. Bower leaped at Stampa,
determined to master him at the first onslaught. But he was heavy and slow, inert after long
years of physical indolence. The older man, awkward only because of his crippled leg, swung
himself clear of Bower's grip, and sprang out of reach.

"If there be any who look, 'tis you who risk imprisonment," he said calmly, with a touch of
humor that assuredly he did not intend.

Bower knew then how greatly he had erred. It was a mistake ever to have agreed to meet Stampa
alone--a much greater one not to have waited to be attacked. As Stampa said truly, if anyone
in the village had seen his mad action, there would be testimony that he was the aggressor.
He frowned at Stampa in a bull-like rage, glowering at him in a frenzy of impotence. This dour
old man opposed a grim barrier to his hopes. It was intolerable that he, Mark Bower the millionaire,
a man who held within his grasp all that the material world has to give, should be standing
there at the mercy of a Swiss peasant. Throughout the dreary vigil of the night he had pondered
this thing, and could find no loophole of escape. The record of that accursed summer sixteen
years ago was long since obliterated in the history of Marcus Bauer, the emotional youth who
made love to a village belle in Zermatt, and posed as an Austrian baron among the English and
Italians who at that time formed the select band of climbers in the Valais. But the short-lived
romance was dead and buried, and its memory brought the taste of Dead Sea ashes to the mouth.

Marcus Bauer had become a naturalized Englishman. The mock barony was replaced by a wealth
that might buy real titles. But the crime still lived, and woe to Mark Bower, the financial
magnate, if it was brought home to him! He had not risen above his fellows without making enemies.
He well knew the weakness and the strength of the British social system, with its strange complacency,
its "allowances," its hysterical prudery, its queer amalgam of Puritanism and light hearted
forbearance. He might gamble with loaded dice in the City, and people would applaud him as
cleverer and shrewder than his opponents. His name might be coupled with that of a pretty actress,
and people would only smile knowingly. But let a hint of his betrayal of Etta Stampa and its
attendant circumstances reach the ears of those who hated him, and he would sink forthwith
into the slough of rich parvenus who eke out their lives in vain efforts to enter the closely
guarded circle from which he had been expelled.

If that was the only danger, he might meet and vanquish it. The unscrupulous use of money,
backed up by the law of libel, can do a great deal to still the public conscience. There was
another, more subtle and heart searching.

He was genuinely in love with Helen Wynton. He had reached an age when position and power were
more gratifying than mere gilded Bohemianism. He could enter Parliament either by way of Palace
Yard or through the portals of the Upper House. He owned estates in Scotland and the home counties,
and his Park Lane mansion figured already in the address books of half the peerage. It pleased
him to think that in placing a charming and gracious woman like Helen at the head of his household,
she would look to him as the lodestar of her existence, and not tolerate him with the well-bred
hauteur of one of the many aristocratic young women who were ready enough to marry him, but
who, in their heart of hearts, despised him. He had deliberately avoided that sort of matrimonial
blunder. It promised more than it fulfilled. He refused to wed a woman who deemed her social
rank dearly bartered for his money.

Yet, before ever the question arose, he knew quite well that this girl whom he had chosen--the
poorly paid secretary of some harmless enthusiast, the strangely selected correspondent of
an insignificant journal--would spurn him with scorn if she heard the story Stampa might tell
of his lost daughter. That was the wildest absurdity in the mad jumble of events which brought
him here face to face with a broken and frayed old man,--one whom he had never seen before
the previous day. It was of a piece with this fantasy that he should be standing ankle deep
in snow under the brilliant sun of August, and in risk, if not in fear, of his life within
two hundred yards of a crowded hotel and a placid Swiss village.

His usually well ordered brain rebelled against these manifest incongruities. His passion subsided
almost as quickly as it had arisen. He moistened his cold lips with his tongue, and the action
seemed to restore his power of speech.

"I suppose you have some motive in bringing me here. What is it?" he said.

"You must come to the cemetery. It is not far."

This unlooked for reply struck a new note. It had such a bizarre effect that Bower actually
laughed. "Then you really are mad?" he guffawed harshly.

"No, not at all. I was on the verge of madness the other day; but I was pulled back in time,
thanks to the Madonna, else I might never have met you."

"Do you expect me to walk quietly to the burial ground in order that I may be slaughtered conveniently?"

"I am not going to kill you, Marcus Bauer," said Stampa. "I trust the good God will enable
me to keep my hands off you. He will punish you in His own good time. You are safe from me."

"A moment ago you spoke differently."

"Ah, that was because you refused to come with me. Assuredly I shall bring either you or your
lying tongue to Etta's grave this morning. But you will come now. You are afraid, Herr Baron.
I see it in your eyes, and you value that well-fed body of yours too highly not to do as I
demand. Believe me, within the next few minutes you shall either kneel by my little girl's
grave or tumble into your own."

"I am not afraid, Stampa. I warn you again that I am more than a match for you. Yet I would
willingly make any reparation within my power for the wrong I have done you."

"Yes, yes--that is all I ask--reparation, such as it is. Not to me--to Etta. Come then. I have
no weapon, I repeat. You trust to your size and strength; so, by your own showing, you are
safe. But you must come!"

A gleam of confidence crept into Bower's eyes. Was it not wise to humor this old madman? Perhaps,
by displaying a remorse that was not all acting, he might arrange a truce, secure a breathing
space. He would be free to deal with Millicent Jaques. He might so contrive matters that Helen
should be far removed from Stampa's dangerous presence before the threatened disclosure was
made. Yes, a wary prudence in speech and action might accomplish much. Surely he dared match
his brain against a peasant's.

"Very well," he said, "I shall accompany you. But remember, at the least sign of violence,
I shall not only defend myself, but drag you off to the communal guardhouse."

Without any answer, Stampa resumed his steady plodding through the snow. Bower followed, somewhat
in the rear. He glanced sharply back toward the hotel. So far as he could judge, no one had
witnessed that frantic spring at his tormentor. At that hour, nearly every resident would be
on the sunlit veranda. He wondered whether or not Helen and Millicent had met again. He wished
now he had interviewed Millicent last night. Her problem was simple enough,--a mere question
of terms. Spite had carried her boldly through the scene in the foyer; but she was far too
sensible a young woman to persist in a hopeless quarrel.

It was one of the fatalities that dogged his footsteps ever since he came to Maloja that the
only person watching him at the moment should happen to be Millicent herself. Her room was
situated at the back of the hotel, and she had fallen asleep after many hours of restless thought.
When the clang of a bell woke her with a start she found that the morning was far advanced.
She dressed hurriedly, rather in a panic lest her quarry might have evaded her by an early
flight. The fine panorama of the Italian Alps naturally attracted her eyes. She was staring
at it idly, when she saw Bower and Stampa crossing the open space in front of her bed room window.

Stampa, of course, was unknown to her. In some indefinable way his presence chimed with her
fear that Bower would leave Maloja forthwith. Did he intend to post through the Vale of Bregaglia
to Chiavenna? Then, indeed, she might be called on to overcome unforeseen difficulties. She
appreciated his character to the point of believing that Helen was his dupe. She regretted
now that she was so foolish as to attack her one-time friend openly. Far better have asked
Helen to visit her privately, and endeavor to find out exactly how the land lay before she
encountered Bower. At any rate, she ought to learn without delay whether or not he was hiring
post horses in the village. If so, he was unwilling to meet her, and the battle royal must
take place in London.

A maid entered with coffee and rolls.

"Who is that man with the English monsieur?" inquired Millicent, pointing to the two.

The servant was a St. Moritz girl, and a glance sufficed. "That? He is Christian Stampa, madam.
He used to drive one of Joos's carriages; but he had a misfortune. He nearly killed a lady
whom he was bringing to the hotel, and was dismissed in consequence. Now he is guide to an
American gentleman. My God! but they are droll, the Americans!"

The maid laughed, and created a clatter with basin and hot water can. Millicent, forcing herself
to eat quickly, continued to gaze after the pair. The description of Stampa's employer interested
her. His drollery evidently consisted in hiring a cripple as guide.

"Is the American monsieur named Charles K. Spencer?" she said, speaking very clearly.

"I do not know, madam. But Marie, who is on the second, can tell me. Shall I ask?"

"Do, please."

Léontine bustled out. Just then Millicent was amazed by Bower's extraordinary leap at Stampa
and the guide's agile avoidance of his would-be assailant. The men faced each other as though
a fight was imminent; but the upshot was that they walked on together quietly. Be sure that
two keen blue eyes watched their every motion thenceforth, never leaving them till they entered
the village street and disappeared behind a large chalet.

"And what did it all mean? Mark Bower--scuffling with a villager!"

Millicent's smooth forehead wrinkled in earnest thought. How queer it would be if Bower was
trying to force Spencer's guide into the commission of a crime! He would stop at nothing. He
believed he could bend all men, and all women too, to his will. Was he angered by unexpected
resistance? She hoped the maid would hurry with her news. Though she meant to go at once to
the village, it would be a point gained if she was certain of Stampa's identity.

She was already veiled and befurred when Léontine returned. Yes, Marie had given her full information.
Madam had heard, perhaps, how Herr Bower and the pretty English mademoiselle were in danger
of being snowed up in the Forno hut yesterday. Well, Stampa had gone with his voyageur, Monsieur
Spensare, to their rescue. And the young lady was the one whom Stampa had endangered during
his career as a cab driver. Again, it was droll.

Millicent agreed. For the second time, she resolved to postpone her journey to St. Moritz.

       *       *       *       *       *

