In the meantime Lord Milner had returned to Johannesburg. His "hard-begged" holiday had proved
a change of occupation rather than a respite from work. Before he left England (August 10th),
he had made known to the Home Government the actual condition of the infant administrations
of the new colonies, and obtained a provision for their immediate wants. The Letters Patent
constituting him Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony had
been passed under the Great Seal; and these and other instruments creating a system of Crown
Colony Government, with Executive and Legislative Councils in both colonies, had been sent
to him in readiness for use "whenever it might be thought expedient to bring them into operation."[298]
And on August 6th the House of Commons had voted £6,500,000 as a grant in aid of the revenues
of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony. Of this sum £1,000,000 was required for the purchase
of fresh rolling-stock for the Imperial Military Railways, still placed under the direction
of Sir Percy (then Colonel) Girouard, and £500,000 was assigned to "relief and re-settlement,"
an item which included the purchase of land and other arrangements for the establishment of
suitable British settlers on farms in both colonies. The debate on the vote afforded a significant
exhibition of the spirit of mingled pessimism and distrust in which the Liberal Opposition
approached every aspect of the South African question. The idea of the Transvaal ever being
able to repay this grant-in-aid out of the "hypothetical" development loan appeared ridiculous
to Sir William Harcourt. "Why," asked the Liberal ex-Chancellor of the Exchequer, "was not
the money required for the South African Constabulary put forward in a supplementary military
vote, instead of being proposed in this form and, under the grant-in-aid, subject to future
repayment by the Transvaal, in which nobody believed?"[299]

         [Footnote 298: They were read and published by Lord Milner on
         June 21st, 1902.]

         [Footnote 299: It is scarcely necessary to say that the
         entire cost of the Constabulary has been borne by the new
         colonies; or that every penny of this grant-in-aid was paid
         back out of the development loan raised in 1902-3.]

This temporary financial assistance was of the utmost importance. Just as in the Cape Colony
Lord Milner had seen that the Boers and Afrikander nationalists were to be beaten at their
own game of renewed invasion by enabling the loyalist population to defend the Colony, so in
the new colonies he proposed to beat the guerilla leaders at their game of wanton and mischievous
resistance by building up a new prosperity faster than they could destroy the old. The conditions
under which he worked, and the state in which he found South Africa when he began to engage
actively in the work of reconstruction, he has himself described. In a despatch, written from
the "High Commissioner's Office, Johannesburg," on November 15th, 1901, not only has Lord Milner
placed on record the actual position of affairs in the new colonies at this time, but he has
sketched with masterly precision the nature of the economic and administrative problems that
awaited solution. The progress towards pacification won by the mobile columns and the blockhouse
system, the dominant influence of the railways as the agency of transport, the condition of
the Concentration Camps, and the degree in which our responsibility for the non-combatant and
surrendered Boers limited our capacity to restore our own people to their homes, the economic
exhaustion of the country, the threatened danger of the scarcity of native labour, and the
processes and problems of repatriation--all these subjects are touched as by a master of statecraft.

[Sidenote: Improved situation.]

     "Without being unduly optimistic," he writes, "it is impossible
     not to be struck by two great changes for the better in [the
     military situation] since the time when I first took up my
     residence in the Transvaal--just eight months ago. These are the
     now almost absolute safety and uninterrupted working of the
     railways and the complete pacification of certain central
     districts. As regards the railways, I cannot illustrate the
     contrast better than by my own experiences. In the end of last
     year and the earlier months of this I had occasion to make
     several journeys between Capetown and Johannesburg or Pretoria,
     and between Johannesburg and Bloemfontein. Though most careful
     preparations were made and every precaution taken, I was
     frequently 'hung up' on these journeys because the line had been
     blown up--not, I think, with any reference to my movements, but
     in the ordinary course of affairs. Small bodies of the enemy were
     always hovering about, and a state of extreme vigilance, not to
     say anxiety, was observable almost everywhere along the line.
     Since my return from England I have again traversed the country
     from East London to Bloemfontein and Johannesburg, and from
     Johannesburg to Durban and back, to say nothing of constant
     journeys between this place and Pretoria. On no single occasion
     has there been the slightest hitch or the least cause for alarm.
     The trains have been absolutely up to time, and very good time.
     They could not have been more regular in the most peaceful
     country. This personal experience, in itself unimportant, is
     typical of a general improvement. I may add, in confirmation of
     it, that during the last two months the mail train from Capetown
     to the north has only been late on one or two occasions, and then
     it was a matter of hours. Six months ago it was quite a common
     event for it to arrive a day, or a couple of days, late. I need
     not enlarge on the far-reaching importance of the improvement
     which these instances illustrate. Not only have the derailments,
     often accompanied by deplorable loss of life, which were at one
     time so common, almost entirely ceased, but, owing to more
     regular running, and especially the resumption of night running,
     the carrying capacity of the railways has greatly increased.
     Indeed, it is the inadequacy of the lines themselves to meet the
     enormous and ever-increasing extra requirements resulting from
     the war, and the shortness of rolling-stock, not any interference
     from the enemy, which causes us whatever difficulties--and they
     are still considerable--we now labour under in the matter of
     transport. When the large amount of additional rolling-stock
     ordered for the Imperial Military Railways last summer is
     received--and the first instalment will arrive very
     shortly--there will be a further great and progressive
     improvement in the conveyance of supplies and materials for the
     troops, the civil population of the towns, and the concentration
     camps.

[Sidenote: Contraction of area of war.]

     "The advance made in clearing the country is equally marked. Six
     months ago the enemy were everywhere, outside the principal
     towns. It is true they held nothing, but they raided wherever
     they pleased, and, though mostly in small bodies, which made
     little or no attempt at resistance when seriously pressed, they
     almost invariably returned to their old haunts when the pressure
     was over. It looked as though the process might go on
     indefinitely. I had every opportunity of watching it, for during
     the first two months of my residence here it was in full swing in
     the immediate neighbourhood. There were half a dozen Boer
     strong-holds, or rather trysting-places, quite close to Pretoria
     and Johannesburg, and the country round was quite useless to us
     for any purpose but that of marching through it, while the enemy
     seemed to find no difficulty in subsisting there....

     "To-day a large and important district of the Transvaal is now
     firmly held by us. But it must not be supposed that all the rest
     is held, or even roamed over, by the enemy. Wide districts of
     both the new colonies are virtually derelict, except, in some
     cases, for the native population. This is especially true of the
     northern part of the Transvaal, which has always been a native
     district, and where, excepting in Pietersburg and some other
     positions held by our troops, the natives are now almost the only
     inhabitants. Indeed, nothing is more characteristic of the latest
     stage of the war than the contraction of Boer resistance within
     certain wide but fairly well-defined districts, separated from
     one another by considerable spaces. Instead of ranging
     indifferently over the whole of the two late Republics, the enemy
     show an increasing tendency to confine themselves to certain
     neighbourhoods, which have always been their chief, though till
     recently by no means their exclusive, centres of strength....
     From time to time the commandos try to break out of these
     districts and to extend the scene of operations. But the failure
     of the latest of these raids--Botha's bold attempt to invade
     Natal--shows the disadvantages under which the Boers now labour
     in attempting to undertake distant expeditions.

     "The contraction of the theatre of war is doubtless due to the
     increased difficulty which the enemy have in obtaining horses and
     supplies, but, above all, to the great reduction in their
     numbers.... To wear out the resistance of the Boers still in the
     field--not more than one-eighth, I think, of the total number of
     burghers who have, first and last, been engaged in the
     war[300]--may take a considerable time yet, and will almost
     certainly involve further losses. I will not attempt to forecast
     either the time or the cost. What seems evident is that the
     concentration of the Boers, and the substitution of several
     fairly well-defined small campaigns for that sort of running
     fight all over the country which preceded them, is on the whole
     an advantage to us, and tends to bring the end of the struggle
     within a more measurable distance. Our great object, it seems to
     me, should be to keep the Boers within the areas of their main
     strength, even if such concentration makes the commandos
     individually more dangerous and involves more desperate fighting,
     and meanwhile to push on with might and main the settlement of
     those parts of the country out of which they have been driven. No
     doubt this is a difficult, and must be a gradual, process. The
     full extent of the difficulty will appear from the sequel. But it
     is the point to which the main efforts, of the civil authorities
     at any rate, should be continually directed.

         [Footnote 300: An under-estimate. One-fourth, or one-fifth,
         would have been nearer the mark. See note, p. 454.]

[Sidenote: The return to the Rand.]

     "If the latest phase of the military situation is maintained,
     i.e., if we are able to prevent the Boers from breaking back
     into the cleared areas, or from injuring the railway lines, I can
     see no reason why the work of settlement should not proceed at a
     greatly quickened pace in the immediate future. The most urgent
     point is to bring back the exiled Uitlanders to the Rand, always
     provided that they are able to find employment when they arrive
     there. But the basis of any general revival of industrial and
     commercial activity on the Rand is the resumption of mining
     operations. So far it has only been found possible to proceed
     very slowly in this respect. The full capacity of the Rand is
     about 6,000 stamps. The first step was taken in April last, when
     the Commander-in-Chief agreed to allow the Chamber of Mines to
     open three mines with 50 stamps each. Up till now permission has
     been granted for the working of 600 stamps, but only 450 have
     actually been started. This is slow work, but even this
     beginning, modest as it is, has made an immense difference in
     the aspect of Johannesburg since first I came here in March last.

     "The number of people allowed to return from time to time, for
     other than mining employments, is in proportion to the number of
     stamps re-started. This, no doubt, is a wise principle, for
     business generally can only expand pari passu with the
     resumption of mining. Up to the present something like 10,000
     people have been allowed to come up, the vast majority of them
     being refugees, though there is a small new element of civil
     servants and civilians in the employ of the military. Assuming
     that from 8,000 to 9,000 are refugees, this would represent about
     one-sixth of the total number of well-accredited Uitlanders
     registered in the books of the 'Central Registration Committee.'

     "The best that can be said on the thorny subject of the return of
     the refugees, is that latterly the rate of return has been
     steadily increasing. Last month the military authorities allowed
     us to grant 400 ordinary permits (this number is over and above
     permits given to officials or persons specially required for
     particular services to the Army or the Government). This month
     the number has been raised to 800. I need hardly say that the
     selection of 800 people out of something like fifty times that
     number is an onerous and ungrateful task. South Africa simply
     rings with complaints as to favouritism in the distribution of
     permits. As a matter of fact, whatever mistakes have been made,
     there has been no favouritism. I do not mean to say that a
     certain number of people--not a large number--have not slipped
     through or been smuggled up under false pretences. But the great
     bulk of the permits have been allotted by the Central
     Registration Committee, a large, capable, and most representative
     body of the citizens of this town and neighbourhood. And they
     have been allotted on well-defined principles, and with great
     impartiality.... I am satisfied that no body of officials, even
     if our officials were not already over-worked in other
     directions, could have done the business so well.

[Sidenote: Labour and transport.]

     "There can, I think, be little doubt that the present rate of
     return can be maintained, and I am not without hope that it may
     in a short time be considerably increased. But this depends
     entirely, for the reasons already given, on the question whether
     the resumption of mining operations can be quickened. The
     obstacles to such a quickening are two-fold: first, want of
     native labour; secondly, want of trucks to bring up not only the
     increased supplies which a larger population necessitates, but
     also, and this is even a more serious matter, to bring up the
     material required for their work. The latter, I need hardly say,
     is a very heavy item, not only in the case of the mines, but in
     the case of all those other industries, building, for instance,
     which only need a chance in order to burst into extreme activity
     in this place. For the Rand requires just now an increase of
     everything--dwelling-houses, offices, roads, sewers, lighting,
     water-supply, etc., etc. Capital would be readily forthcoming for
     every kind of construction, and many skilled workmen are waiting
     at the coast. But it is no use bringing up workmen to live in the
     dearest place in the world unless they have the materials to work
     with. The most necessary materials, however, are bulky, and the
     carrying capacity of the railways, greatly improved as it is,
     gives no promise of an early importation of quantities of bulky
     material, if the other and more urgent demands upon our means of
     transport are to be satisfied.

     "As regards native labour for the mines, the greater development
     of which is a condition of all other industrial development, the
     difficulty is that, while natives can be found in abundance to
     do surface work, the number of those who are willing to go
     underground is limited. There are only certain tribes among whom
     underground workers can be found in any great numbers, and these
     reside mostly in Portuguese territory. As you are aware,
     difficulties have arisen about the introduction of Portuguese
     natives, and the matter is at present the subject of negotiations
     between the Governor-General of Mozambique and myself. Having
     regard to the friendly attitude of the Governor-General, I have
     every hope that this difficulty may soon be overcome. But even
     then we shall not be able to count on any great immediate influx
     of labourers from Portuguese territory....

[Sidenote: The concentration camps.]

     "The delay in obtaining native labour would be more serious if it
     were not for the existence of that other and still greater
     obstacle to the rapid revival of industry here which I have
     already dwelt on, namely, the difficulty of transport. And this
     latter difficulty is immensely aggravated at the present time by
     the constantly increasing requirements of the concentration
     camps. Not only has the number of people in these camps
     increased, with overwhelming rapidity, to an extent never
     contemplated when they were first started, but the extreme state
     of destitution in which many of the people arrived, and the
     deplorable amount of sickness which has all along existed among
     them, create a demand for a great deal more than mere primary
     necessities, such as food and shelter, if the condition of the
     camps is to be anything like what we should wish to see it. The
     amount of mortality in these camps, especially amongst very young
     children, as you are well aware, has been deplorable. I do not,
     indeed, agree with those who think--or assert--that the mortality
     among the Boers would have been less, if thousands of women and
     children had been allowed to live on isolated farms in a
     devastated country, or to roam about on the trail of the
     commandos. Indeed, I feel confident that it would have been far
     greater. The best proof of this is the deplorable state of
     starvation and sickness in which great numbers of people arrived
     at the camps, and which rendered them easy victims to the attack
     of epidemic diseases. At the same time it is evident that the
     ravages of disease would have been less if our means of transport
     had allowed us to provide them on their first arrival, not only
     with tents, rations, and necessary medicines (all of which were,
     as a matter of fact, supplied with great promptitude), but with
     the hundred and one appliances and comforts which are so
     essential for the recovery of the weakly and the sick, and the
     prevention of the spread of disease. I do not mean to say that it
     was only want of material, due to the insuperable difficulties of
     transport (especially at the time when the camps were first
     started, and when railways were subject to continual
     interruptions) from which the camps suffered. Equally serious was
     the want of personnel; of the necessary number of doctors,
     nurses, matrons, superintendents, etc., who were simply not to be
     found in South Africa, severely taxed as it had already been to
     find men and women of sufficient training and experience to look
     after the other victims of the war. Still, the want of material
     has been a serious item; and it is evidently a want which, as the
     carrying capacity of the railways increases, we must do our best
     to supply. The Ladies' Commission, of whose devoted labours in
     visiting and inspecting the camps it is impossible to speak too
     highly (they have been of inestimable service to the Government),
     have handed in a considerable list of requirements, which have
     been, and are being, supplied as fast as possible. But evidently
     these requirements enter into competition, and most serious
     competition, with the supply of food and materials necessary for
     the revival even of our central industry, not to say of
     industrial and agricultural activity elsewhere in the new
     colonies, of which, under the circumstances, it is, for the
     moment, unfortunately impossible to think.

     "To decide between the competing demands upon the still very
     limited amount of truckage available for civil purposes, after
     the paramount requirements of the army have been satisfied, is
     indeed a most difficult and delicate task. Whether we have done
     all for the best, it is not for me to say. That any amount of
     conscientious thought and labour has been devoted, on all hands,
     to grappling with the problem, I can confidently assert. And I am
     equally confident that whatever has been done, and whatever may
     yet be done, the amount of hardship must have been and must still
     be very great. It would be amusing, if amusement were possible in
     the presence of so much sadness and suffering, to put side by
     side the absolutely contradictory criticisms, all equally
     vehement, to which our action is subjected. On the one hand is
     the outcry against the cruelty and heartlessness manifested in
     not making better provision for the people in the concentration
     camps: on the other, the equally loud outcry against our
     injustice in leaving the British refugees in idleness and poverty
     at the coast, in order to keep the people in the concentration
     camps supplied with every luxury and comfort. I have even
     frequently heard the expression that we are 'spoiling' the people
     in the Boer camps. We are, alas, not in a position to spoil
     anybody, however much we might desire to do so....

     "The pressing questions connected with the return of the refugees
     and the maintenance of the Boers at present in the concentration
     camps are, it is evident, only the first of a series of problems
     of the most complicated character, which have to be solved before
     the country can resume its normal life....

[Sidenote: Re-settlement problems.]

     "Even if the war were to come to an end to-morrow, it would not
     be possible to let the people in the concentration camps go back
     at once to their former homes. They would only starve there. The
     country is, for the most part, a desert, and, before it can be
     generally re-occupied, a great deal will have to be done in the
     way of re-stocking, provision of seed, and also probably, in the
     absence of draught animals, for the importation of steam ploughs.

     "Then there are the arrangements to be made for the return of the
     prisoners of war. Evidently these will have to wait till the
     whole of the British refugees are brought back. The latter not
     only have the strongest claim, but they will be immediately
     wanted when order is restored, and will have, as soon as the
     railway can bring up the necessary material, abundance of work,
     whereas it may take some time before the country is fit to
     receive the prisoners. Nevertheless, though the return of the
     prisoners may still be far distant, there are certain measures
     which have to be taken even now, in order that we may be able to
     deal with the matter when the time comes.

     "Altogether, the number and complexity of the tasks, embraced
     under the general term 're-settlement,' which are either already
     upon us or will come upon us as the country gradually quiets
     down, are sufficient to daunt the most stout-hearted. And yet the
     tone of hopefulness among the British population who have so far
     returned to the new colonies is very marked, especially in the
     Transvaal. It is not incompatible with many grievances, and with
     much grumbling at the Administration. But that was only to be
     expected, and is of very small importance as long as people are
     prepared to tackle the big work of reconstruction in front of
     them in a vigorous and sanguine spirit. Nor is this hopefulness,
     in my opinion, at all ill-founded, however gloomy may be the
     immediate outlook.

     "Terrible as have been the ravages of war and the destruction of
     agricultural capital, a destruction which is now pretty well
     complete, the great fact remains that the Transvaal possesses an
     amount of mineral wealth, virtually unaffected by the war, which
     will ensure the prosperity of South Africa for the next fifty
     years; and other resources, both industrial and agricultural,
     which, properly developed, should make it a rich country, humanly
     speaking, for ever. Economically, all that is required is that a
     very small proportion of the superabundant but exhaustible riches
     of the mines should be devoted to developing the vast permanent
     sources of wealth which the country possesses, and which will
     maintain a European population twenty times as large as the
     present, when all the gold has been dug out. No doubt it is not
     economic measures alone which will ensure that result. A social
     change is also necessary, viz., the introduction of fresh blood,
     of a body of enterprising European settlers, especially on the
     land, to reinforce the Boer population, who have been far too
     few, and far too easy-going, to do even the remotest justice to
     the vast natural capabilities of the soil, on which, for the most
     part, they have done little more than squat. But then the
     introduction of the right type of agricultural settlers, though
     it will not come about of itself, would not seem to be a task
     beyond the powers of statesmanship to grapple with.

[Sidenote: The land settlement report.]

     "This despatch has dealt so largely with questions of immediate
     urgency, that I have left myself no time to refer to the work
     which is being quietly done in both the new colonies to build up
     the framework of the new Administration. I can hardly claim for
     myself that I have been able to give to that work anything more
     than the most general supervision, as my time is more than fully
     occupied in dealing with matters of present urgency. But, thanks
     to the great energy displayed by the principal officers of the
     Administration--by Major Goold-Adams and Mr. Wilson at
     Bloemfontein, by Mr. Fiddes, Sir Richard Solomon, and Mr. Duncan,
     at Pretoria, and by Sir Godfrey Lagden and Mr. Wybergh here--a
     really surprising amount of ground has been covered. Despite all
     the difficulties and discouragements of the present time, the
     machinery of the Government is getting rapidly into working
     order, and, as soon as normal conditions are restored, the new
     colonies will find themselves provided with an Administration
     capable of dealing with the needs of a great and progressive
     community, and with efficient and trustworthy courts of law. A
     number of fundamental laws are being worked out, and will shortly
     be submitted for your approval. In the Orange River Colony they
     do not involve any great change of system, but, in the Transvaal,
     some most important reforms are at once necessary, while an
     immense amount of useless rubbish, which encumbered the Statute
     Book and made it the despair of jurists, has already been
     repealed."[301]

         [Footnote 301: Cd. 903.]

In spite of the disturbed condition of the country, two independent inquiries, each of which
was concerned with matters of cardinal importance to the future of South Africa, were concluded
before the second year of the war had run its course. From the report addressed to Mr. Chamberlain
by the Land Settlement Commission, of which Mr. Arnold-Forster was chairman, and from that
presented to Lord Milner by Sir William (then Mr.) Willcocks[302] on Irrigation in South Africa,
there emerged three significant conclusions. Racial fusion, or the ultimate solution of the
nationality difficulty, was to be found in the establishment of British settlers upon the land,
living side by side with the Dutch farmers and identified with them by common pursuits and
interests; the possibility alike of the successful introduction of these settlers and of the
development of the hitherto neglected agricultural resources of South Africa depended upon
the enlargement and improvement of the cultivable area by irrigation; and the only existing
source of wealth capable of providing the material agencies for the realisation of these objects
was the Witwatersrand gold industry. British agricultural settlers for the political, irrigation
for the physical regeneration of South Africa--this was the essence of these two Reports.

         [Footnote 302: Managing Director of the Daira Sania Company;
         of the Indian and Egyptian Irrigation Services.]

     "We desire to express our firm conviction," wrote the Land
     Settlement Commissioners,[303] "that a well-considered scheme of
     settlement in South Africa by men of British origin is of the
     most vital importance to the future prosperity of British South
     Africa. We find among those who wish to see British rule in
     South Africa maintained and its influence for good extended, but
     one opinion upon this subject. There even seems reason to fear
     lest the vast expenditure of blood and treasure which has marked
     the war should be absolutely wasted, unless some strenuous effort
     be made to establish in the country, at the close of the war, a
     thoroughly British population large enough to make a recurrence
     of division and disorder impossible."

         [Footnote 303: Cd. 626.]

[Sidenote: The irrigation report.]

Apart from its mineral development, Sir William Willcocks points out,[304] South Africa has
remained "strangely stationary. Fifty years ago it was a pastoral country importing cereals
and dairy produce, and even hay from foreign countries. It is the same to-day. Half a century
ago it needed a farm of 5,000 acres to keep a family in decent comfort; to-day it needs the
same farm of 5,000 acres to keep a single family in comfort." West of the great Drakenberg
range it is an arid, or semi-arid, region. The reason is not so much that the rainfall is deficient,
as that the rain comes at the wrong time, and is wasted. What is wanted is water-storage, with
irrigation works to spread the water upon the land when it is needed by the farmer. Nothing
short of the agency of the State will serve to bring about this physical revolution; for bad
legislation must be annulled, and a great intercolonial system of water-husbandry, comparable
to those of India and Egypt, must be created. Hitherto agriculture, in spite of the latent
possibilities of the country, has scarcely been "attempted"; for, with the exception of the
extreme south-western corner of the Cape Colony, the "conquered territory" of the Orange River
Colony, and the high veld of the Transvaal, the agricultural development of South Africa "depends
entirely on irrigation."

         [Footnote 304: Cd. 1,163.]

But, great as was the claim of agriculture, the claim of the gold industry was at once more
immediate and more imperative.

     "Valuable as water may be for agricultural purposes," Sir William
     Willcocks wrote, "it is a thousand times more valuable for
     gold-washing at the Rand mines."

And again:

     "The prosperity and well-being of every interest, not only in the
     Transvaal, but in South Africa generally, will depend on the
     prosperity of the Rand, certainly for the next fifty years.
     Though my life has been spent in the execution of irrigation
     projects and the furtherance of agricultural prosperity, I feel
     that, under the special conditions prevailing in South Africa,
     the suggestion of any course other than the obvious one of first
     putting the Rand mines on a sound footing as far as their water
     supply is concerned, would have constituted me a bigot. Ten acres
     of irrigable land in the Mooi or Klip river valleys, with
     Johannesburg in the full tide of prosperity, will yield as good a
     rent as forty acres with Johannesburg in decay."

And the prosperity of the mines is not only essential in the present: it is to be the instrument
for the development of the permanent resources of the Transvaal:

[Sidenote: Economic importance of Rand.]

     "The mineral wealth of the Transvaal is extra-ordinarily great,
     but it is exhaustible, some say within a space of fifty years,
     others within a space of one hundred years. It would be a
     disaster indeed for the country if none of this wealth were
     devoted to the development of its agriculture. Agricultural
     development is slow, but it is permanent, and knows of no
     exhaustion. If the companies working the gold, coal, and diamond
     mines were by decree compelled to devote a percentage of their
     gains to the execution of irrigation works on lines laid down by
     the Government, they would assist in the permanent development of
     the country and would be investing in works which, though slow to
     give a remuneration, would, at any rate, be absolutely permanent.
     It would thus happen, that when the mineral wealth of the country
     had disappeared, its agricultural wealth would have been put on
     such a solid basis that the country would not have to fall from
     the height of prosperity to the depth of poverty."

These were conclusions of so fundamental a nature that no statesman could afford to overlook
them; and, in point of fact, Lord Milner kept them steadily in sight from first to last in
all that he did for the administrative and economic reconstruction of the new colonies.

Another effort of the civil administration which was carried on successfully during the war
was the teaching of the Boer children in the refugee camps. The narrative of the circumstances
in which the camp schools were first organised, of the manner in which teachers came forward
from all parts of the empire to offer their services, and of the complete success which attended
their efforts, was told three years later by Mr. E. B. Sargant, the Education Adviser to the
Administration. The report in which the story appears not only affords a record unique in the
annals of educational effort, but adds a pleasing and significant page to what is otherwise
a gloomy chapter of the war.[305] Mr. Sargant was invited by Lord Milner to organise the work
of educational reconstruction in the new colonies in the autumn of 1900. He was then travelling
in Canada, in the course of a journey through the empire undertaken for the purpose of investigating
the methods and conditions of education in the several British colonies; and he reached Capetown
on November 6th, 1900. At that time the headquarters of the new Transvaal Administration had
not been established in Pretoria; but in the Orange River Colony certain schools along the
railway line and elsewhere had been opened under the military Government. From observations
made in December in the two new colonies, Mr. Sargant had begun to fear that the work of educational
reorganisation would have to be indefinitely postponed, when a visit to the Boer prisoners'
camp at Seapoint, Capetown, gave him the idea from which the whole system of the camp schools
was subsequently evolved. Here he found that a school for boys and young men had been provided
by the prisoners themselves, but that it was destitute of books and of almost all the necessary
appliances. Mr. Sargant's appeal on behalf of this school met with a ready response from the
Cape Government. What could be done here, he thought, could be done elsewhere. The nearest
refugee camp to Capetown was at Norval's Pont, on the borders of the Orange River Colony; and
it was here that Mr. Sargant determined to make his first experiment.

         [Footnote 305: This Report was issued (June 14th, 1904) from
         the Education Adviser's Office, Johannesburg, on "The
         Development of Education in the Transvaal and Orange River
         Colony." It is one of the many contributions of permanent
         value to political and economic science that mark the second
         period of Lord Milner's Administration in South Africa.
         E.g., in Appendix XXX. of this Report, the various
         solutions of the much-vexed question of religious instruction
         in State Schools, severally adopted by the self-governing
         colonies of the empire, are excellently presented in tabular
         form.]

[Sidenote: Origin of the camp schools.]

     "Having provided myself," Mr. Sargant says, "with several boxes
     of school books, I left Capetown on the last day of January and
     took up my quarters in the camp already named. The Military
     Commandant threw himself heartily into the experiment, although
     at that time the provision of food and shelter for each new
     influx of refugees was a matter of great difficulty. Fortunately
     Norval's Pont, being nearer the base of supplies than the other
     camps, had a few marquees to spare. In two of these I opened the
     first camp school, remaining for a fortnight as its headmaster.
     The rest of the teachers were found in the camp itself. It was
     apparent from the first that the school would be a success. The
     children flocked to it, and the mothers who brought them were
     well content with the arrangement that the religious instruction
     should be given in Dutch and other lessons in English. Here, as
     in several other camps which were visited later, I found that a
     school, taught through the medium of Dutch, had already been
     opened by some of the more serious-minded of the people. In this
     case, an offer was made to me by the Commandant to suppress this
     school and to send the children to my marquees. This I refused,
     and in less than two months I had the gratification of knowing
     that teachers and children had come voluntarily to the Government
     school, and that the tents in which they had been taught formed
     one of a row of six which were needed to accommodate the rapidly
     increasing number of scholars."[306]

         [Footnote 306: Report on "The Development of Education in the
         Transvaal and Orange River Colony."]

[Sidenote: Over-sea teachers.]

After this initial success Mr. Sargant made arrangements, first from Bloemfontein, and afterwards
from Pretoria, for the establishment of such schools in all the refugee camps; and by the end
of May, 1901, there were 4,000 children in the camp schools, as against 3,500 in the town schools
of the two colonies. In the following month it became evident that the local supply of teachers
would be insufficient to meet the demands of the rapidly increasing schools; and Lord Milner
devoted much of his time during his leave of absence to making arrangements for the introduction
of a number of well-trained teachers from England, and subsequently from the over-sea colonies.
Before these welcome reinforcements could arrive, however, the number of children in the camp
schools, apart from the Government schools in the towns, had risen to 17,500, and the supply
of South African teachers was exhausted. "In many cases," says Mr. Sargant, "the services of
young men and women who had passed the sixth, fifth, and even fourth standard were utilised
temporarily." With the new year, 1902, drafts of carefully chosen and well-qualified teachers
from England began to arrive. Both the Board of Education for England and Wales and the Scotch
Education Department took up the work of selection and appointment, and the co-operation of
the Canadian, Australian, and New Zealand Governments was obtained.[307] From this time forward
the system of the camp schools was steadily extended; and on May 31st, 1902, the date of the
Vereeniging surrender, when the attendance reached its highest point, more than 17,000 Boer
children were being thus educated in the Transvaal camps, and more than 12,000 in those of
the Orange River Colony.[308]

         [Footnote 307: These imported teachers worked harmoniously
         with the South African teachers, whether of British or Dutch
         extraction; they filled the gap left by the Hollander
         teachers, who had returned to Europe after the outbreak of
         the war, and formed a valuable element in the permanent staff
         of the Education Departments of the new colonies. In 1903
         there were 475 of these over-sea teachers at work in the two
         colonies, as against some 800 teachers appointed in South
         Africa.]

         [Footnote 308: Some idea of the significance of these figures
         may be gathered from the fact that the highest number of
         children on the rolls of the Government schools of the Orange
         Free State was 8,157 (in the year 1898). That is to say, the
         British Administration in the Orange River Colony was
         educating one-third more Boer children in the camp schools
         alone than the Free State Government had educated in time of
         peace. Cd. 903.]

[Sidenote: Administrative progress, 1901.]

Apart from this unique and significant effort, the reports furnished by the various departmental
heads to Lord Milner in December afford striking and sufficient evidence of the progress of
the civil administration in both the new colonies during the year 1901. In the Orange River
Colony the sphere of operations of the departments existing at the time when Sir H. Gould-Adams
was appointed Deputy-administrator (March, 1901), had been increased, and new departments were
being organised. A statement issued by the financial adviser on August 29th showed that for
the period March 13th, 1900 (the occupation of Bloemfontein) to June 30th, 1901, the "real"
revenue and expenditure of the colony were respectively £301,800 8s. and £217,974 18s.; an
excess of revenue over expenditure of £83,825 10s. And during the half-year July 1st-December
31st the revenue collected was about one-third in excess of the actual civil expenditure.[309]
The progress in education was remarkable. At the end of February, 1902, there were 13,384 children
on the roll of the Government schools, camp and town,[310] or nearly 5,000 more than the greatest
number at school at any one time under the Republic, and the reorganisation of both higher
and technical instruction had been taken in hand. A system of local self-government had been
commenced by the establishment of Boards of Health at Bloemfontein and in all districts in
the protected area, while in the capital itself the Town Council was again at work. The Agricultural
Department formed on July 1st, 1901, had taken over a large number of sheep and cattle from
the military authorities, and a commencement of tree-planting under an experienced forester
had been made. The Land Board was created in October, with two branches concerned respectively
with Settlement and Repatriation. The Settlement branch was occupied especially in procuring
land suitable for agricultural purposes, and its efforts were so successful that by the end
of April, 1902, 150 British settlers had been placed on farms. The Repatriation branch was
engaged in collecting information as to the whereabouts of the absentee Boer landowners and
their families, and the condition of their lands and houses; in investigating the possibility
of importing fresh stock, and in collecting vehicles, implements, seed-corn, and the other
necessaries which would be required to enable the Boer population, when repatriated, to resume
their normal pursuits. Also temporary courts, pending the re-opening of the ordinary civil
courts, had been established.

         [Footnote 309: Cd. 1,163, p. 145. The accounts were
         complicated by expenditure for, and refunds from, the
         military authorities.]

         [Footnote 310: This is in the Orange River Colony alone. For
         the number of children in the camp schools of both
         colonies, as apart from the town schools, see above.]

In the Transvaal the work was on a larger scale. Five departments, those of the Secretary to
the Administration (afterwards Colonial Secretary), the Legal Adviser (afterwards Attorney-General),
the Controller of the Treasury (afterwards Treasurer), the Mining Commissioner and of the Commissioner
for Native Affairs, were already organised. The progress achieved by the heads of these departments
in the Transvaal, and by Sir H. Gould-Adams and Mr. Wilson in the Orange River Colony, formed
collectively a record the merit of which was acknowledged by "an expression of the high appreciation
of His Majesty's Government of the services which they had rendered in circumstances of exceptional
difficulty."[311]

         [Footnote 311: Cd. 1,163.]

It is difficult to present an account of the work already done in the Transvaal in a form at
once brief and representative. The report of Mr. Fiddes, the Secretary to the Administration,[312]
recorded the progress made in education, public works, and district administration. Since July
twenty-four new schools, of which seven were camp schools, eight fee-paying schools, and nine
free town schools, had been opened, and 169 teachers were employed in the town schools, and
173 in the camp schools, opened by the Administration. The public buildings, including the
hospitals and asylums at Johannesburg and Pretoria, the post offices and the seventeen prisons
administered by the department, were being maintained and, where necessary, restored. In Johannesburg,
as we have seen, a Town Council had been established, but Pretoria was still administered by
a Military Governor, who controlled a temporary Town Board and the police. The Administration,
however, was empowered by proclamation No. 28 of 1901 to appoint Boards of Health in places
where no municipality existed, and it was expected that Pretoria would be endowed, before long,
with the same municipal privileges as Johannesburg.

         [Footnote 312: Dated December 12th, 1901.]

[Sidenote: Legislative reforms.]

The volume of work handled in the Legal Adviser's office formed a remarkable testimony to the
energy and capacity of Sir Richard Solomon. Resident magistrates' courts had been established
in twelve districts; temporary courts were being held in Pretoria and Johannesburg; the offices
of the Registrar of Deeds and of the Orphan Master, and the Patent Office, were reorganised;
and an ordinance creating a Supreme Court, consisting of a Chief Justice and five Puisne Judges,
was drafted ready to be brought into operation so soon as circumstances permitted. The chaotic
Statute Book of the late Republic had been overhauled. A large number of laws, some obsolete,
some impliedly repealed, but still appearing on the Statute Book, and others unsuited to the
new régime, had been repealed by proclamation; and at the same time many ordinances dealing
with matters of fundamental importance had been prepared for submission to the future Legislative
Council at the first opportunity.

The report of Mr. Duncan, the Controller of the Treasury, showed that the revenue actually
being collected, mainly from the customs, the Post Office, mining and trading licences, and
native passes, would provide for the ordinary expenditure of the civil administration. And,
in point of fact, when the accounts were made up at the end of the first financial year of
the new colonies (July 1st, 1901-June 30th, 1902) it was found that the Orange River Colony
had a balance in hand of £231,000, while in the Transvaal the expenditure on civil administration[313]
had been covered by the revenue, which had assumed already the respectable figure of £1,393,000.

The Departments of Mines and Native Affairs had been reorganised, and the work done by Mr.
Wybergh and Sir Godfrey Lagden respectively in these departments, in co-operation with Sir
Richard Solomon, had produced the administrative reforms immediately required to regulate the
employment of native labourers in the mines. By proclamations amending or repealing existing
laws and making fresh provisions where necessary the native had been protected against oppression
and robbery at the hands of unscrupulous labour-agents, and the liquor traffic, the chief cause
of his insubordination and incapacity, had been effectively repressed. Considerations of public
security made the maintenance of the "pass" system necessary, but modifications were introduced
into the working of the system sufficient to protect the educated native from unnecessary humiliation
and the native labourer from excessive punishment. In addition to this departmental work two
commissions had been appointed by Lord Milner to investigate two matters of direct and immediate
concern to the gold industry. The first of these, over which Sir Richard Solomon presided,
was engaged in reviewing the existing gold laws, with a view to the introduction of new legislation
embodying such modifications as the best local experience and the financial interests of the
colony might require. The second was employed in formulating measures necessary to provide
both the mines and the community of the Rand with a water-supply that would be at once permanent
and economic.

         [Footnote 313: Excluding expenditure on the South African
         Constabulary and relief and re-settlement, and certain other
         charges. Cd. 1,163.]

[Sidenote: The Johannesburg police.]

There remain certain special features of the administrative reconstruction accomplished in
1901 that merit attention, as showing the degree in which Lord Milner kept in view the fundamental
necessities of the situation revealed by the Land Settlement and Irrigation Reports to which
reference has been made above. As part of the work of the Law Department, the Johannesburg
Municipal Police had been organised and placed under the control of Mr. Showers, the late head
of the Calcutta Police.

     "This fine body," Lord Milner wrote, "consists mainly of picked
     men from the Army Reserve, including many old soldiers of the
     Guards, and others who have fought in the war. The men are
     dressed like London policemen, but carry rifles. This odd-looking
     equipment is characteristic of the double nature of their duties.
     On the one hand they do the work of ordinary town police, and
     exhibit in that characteristic the same efficiency and civility
     as their London prototypes. On the other hand, they have played
     an important part in assisting the military and the Rand Rifles
     in the defence of the long line, fifty miles in extent of towns
     and mining villages which constitute the Rand district. Latterly,
     since the enemy have been quite driven out of this part of the
     country, the military portion of their duties is diminishing in
     importance, though the danger of small raids on outlying portions
     of the Rand by parties coming from a distance is not yet wholly
     removed. On the other hand, with the return of the civil
     population, their work as police proper is greatly on the
     increase. In their struggle with the illicit liquor dealers, one
     of the most difficult of their duties, they have so far met with
     a great measure of success."[314]

         [Footnote 314: Cd. 903.]

[Sidenote: South African constabulary.]

Just as here, in the case of the Johannesburg police, so in the formation of the South African
Constabulary and in the reorganisation of the railways, Lord Milner had determined that no
opportunity of adding to the permanent British population of the two colonies should be lost.
The South African Constabulary was formed in October, 1900, by General Baden-Powell, mainly
on the lines of the Canadian North-West police, for the protection of the settled population
in the new colonies. Since July, 1901, however, when it had been called out for military service,
this force, at the time some 9,000 strong, had been employed as part of the army under the
direction of the Commander-in-Chief, although its organisation, finance, and internal discipline
were dealt with by the High Commissioner. The men recruited for the Constabulary were of British
birth, and every endeavour was made in the selection of recruits to secure persons who were
adapted by pursuits and character to become permanent and useful colonists. It is interesting
to note that a body of 500 burgher police, consisting of former burghers of the Orange Free
State, and placed under the colonel commanding the Orange Colony division, had been associated
with the Constabulary during the time that they were thus serving with the troops. Nor is it
necessary to point out that the military experience, the knowledge of the country, and acquaintance
with the life of the veld which the Constabulary gained at this period, largely contributed
to the efficiency which they displayed afterwards in the discharge of their regular duties.

But of all the reconstructive work accomplished in this year of continuous and harassing warfare,
the reorganisation of the railways was perhaps the most essential and the most successful in
its immediate results. Although the railways of the two new colonies remained entirely under
the control of the military authorities, their future importance to the civil administration
was so great that, as Lord Milner wrote,[315] "questions affecting their organisation and development
naturally claimed his constant attention." And this all the more, since Sir Percy Girouard,
the Director of Military Railways, had been chosen by the Home Government to undertake the
management of the joint railway system of the two colonies so soon as it was handed over to
the civil authorities. The work accomplished included the repair of the damage inflicted by
the enemy, the increase and improvement of the rolling-stock, the reorganisation of the staff
of European employees, and the construction of new lines required for the industrial development
of the country. Apart from 102 engines and 984 trucks, the Boers had destroyed many pumping-stations
and station buildings, 385 spans of bridges and culverts, and 25 miles of line. These injuries
to the "plant" of the railways were repaired "in an absolutely permanent manner," and orders
had been placed in August for 60 engines and 1,200 trucks over and above those required to
replace the rolling-stock destroyed by the enemy.[316] As the staff employed in the time of
the Republics had been "actively engaged on the side of the enemy, and were animated by an
exceedingly anti-British spirit,"[317] they had to be almost entirely replaced.

         [Footnote 315: December 14th, 1901. Cd. 903.]

         [Footnote 316: The new rolling-stock was paid for out of the
         grant-in-aid voted in August, 1901. The first of the new
         lines constructed was that from Bloemfontein to Basutoland,
         opening up the rich agricultural land known as the "conquered
         territory" on the Basuto border in the Orange River Colony,
         where many of the new British settlers had been established.]

         [Footnote 317: The completeness with which the Netherlands
         Railway Company had identified itself with the Government of
         the South African Republic is well expressed in the reply of
         Mr. Van Kretchmar, the General Manager of the N.Z.A.S.M., to
         a question put to him by the Transvaal Concessions
         Commissioners: "We considered that the interests of the
         Republic were our interests" (Q. 612). Many of these railway
         employees were, of course, imported Hollanders.]

[Sidenote: Reorganisation of railways.]

     "But," Lord Milner continues, "the many difficulties incidental
     to the organisation of a large new staff, unaccustomed to work
     with one another, are being successfully overcome, and business
     is carried on with a smoothness which gives no indication of the
     internal revolution so recently effected. The new railway staff
     comprises some 4,000 men of British race, including 1,500
     Reservists or Irregulars who had fought in the war, and who, with
     other newcomers, form a permanent addition to the British
     population of South Africa."

Thanks to the blockhouse system, supplemented where necessary by armoured trains, the mail
trains from the ports to Johannesburg were running almost as rapidly and as safely as in time
of peace. But the demands of the military traffic were so enormous that opportunities for ordinary
traffic were still rigorously restricted.

     "Military requirements in food supplies, remounts and munitions
     of war," Lord Milner wrote, "represented 29,000 tons weekly from
     the ports; while the movements of men and horses to and fro over
     the [then] huge theatre of war were as constant as they were
     sudden."

None the less the civil traffic was increasing. While in August only 684 refugees had returned,
in November the number had risen to 2,623; and while in August the tonnage of civil supplies
forwarded to Bloemfontein and the Transvaal was 4,612, in November it was 8,522. This result,
moreover, had been obtained with the old rolling-stock, and a much more rapid progress was
anticipated in the future, since the additional rolling-stock had already begun to arrive.
And in anticipation of this increased rate of progress, the Commander-in-Chief had

     "now seen his way to allow the mines to start 400 fresh stamps
     per month, as against an average of under 100 in previous months,
     and had also consented to the grant of 1,600 permits a month
     (representing about 4,000 persons) for return to the Transvaal."

In addition to the repair and reorganisation of the lines running to the coast, the Transvaal
collieries had been re-opened and the coal traffic had been resumed. Not only had progress
been made in stocking the mines with coal, timber, and machinery, preparatory to the full resumption
of working activity, but the large unemployed native population found in Johannesburg at the
time of Lord Milner's arrival had been utilised for the construction of a new and much-needed
coal line, which ran for thirteen miles along the Rand.

     "This short line," Lord Milner wrote, "would have no less than
     thirty to forty miles of sidings leading from it to every
     important mine, and securing direct delivery of about 1,000,000
     tons of coal per annum, as well as of a large tonnage of general
     stores."

[Sidenote: Development by railways.]

And then follows a statement of the part to be played by railway construction in the policy
of material development, which was pursued with such determination by Lord Milner after the
restoration of peace.

     "It seems almost superfluous to argue the case for further
     railway development in South Africa, and especially in the new
     colonies. The richest agricultural districts of both colonies are
     far removed from markets. The through lines to the coast from the
     great centres of industry will be choked with traffic. Both to
     stimulate agriculture and to facilitate the operations of
     commerce, additional lines and relief lines will be urgently
     required. Moreover, if the construction of the most necessary of
     these is undertaken as fast as the districts through which they
     pass are pacified, employment will be provided for large numbers
     of persons who would otherwise be idle and dependent on
     Government for relief, as well as for many newcomers, who will be
     a valuable addition to the population of the country. If there is
     one enterprise which is certain to be thoroughly popular with the
     old population, it is this. The one thing which the Boers will
     thoroughly appreciate will be railways bringing their richest
     land into touch with the best markets. And the British population
     will be equally in favour of such a course."[318]

         [Footnote 318: Cd. 903.]

Thus, six months before Vereeniging, and less than three months after Lord Milner's return
from England, the "big unfinished job" was well in hand.

CHAPTER XII

THE SURRENDER OF VEREENIGING

[Sidenote: The gold industry re-started.]

With the beginning of the year 1902, the question of the ultimate submission of the Boers had
become a matter of months, or even weeks. The guerilla leaders had been beaten at their own
game. In spite of the extension of the area of the war, the terrorising of the peaceably inclined
burghers, the co-operation of the Afrikander nationalists, and the encouragement derived from
Boer sympathisers in England, the most important districts of the Transvaal and half of the
Orange River Colony were being restored to the pursuits of peace. The great industry of South
Africa was re-established, and agriculture was not only resumed but even developing upon more
enlightened principles within the protected areas of the two colonies; while in the Orange
River Colony 150 new British settlers had been planted upon farms before the terms of the Vereeniging
surrender were signed. The story of this steady progress is told by the mere items in the monthly
records furnished by Lord Milner to the Home Government. The gold industry of the Rand recommenced
in May, 1901, when, with permission to set 150 stamps at work, 7,439 oz. of gold were won.
Up to November, when, as we have seen, the military situation for the first time permitted
any considerable body of refugees to return, progress was slow; but in this month the output
amounted to 32,000 oz. in round numbers. In December the number of stamps working had risen
to 953, and the output to 52,897 oz. Henceforward the advance was rapid and sustained. In the
remaining five months of the war (January to May, 1902), the number of stamps at work rose
to 2,095, the monthly output to 138,600 oz., of the value of £600,000, and 30,000 additional
British refugees had been brought back to their homes on the Rand, in view of the increasing
certainty of employment afforded by the expanding gold industry. Thus, before the surrender
of the Boer forces in the field, half of the British population had been restored to the Transvaal,
and the gold industry had been so far re-established that its production had reached one-third
of the highest annual rate attained before the war broke out. Nor must it be forgotten that
during these last months the conditions of the refugee camps were being steadily improved,
until, as already noted, the death-rate was ultimately reduced below the normal.

The Home Government had been unprepared for the military struggle precipitated by the ultimatum;
Lord Milner was determined that, so far as his efforts could avail, it should not be unprepared
for the economic conflict for which peace would be the signal. In a despatch of January 25th,
1902, he urged once more upon Mr. Chamberlain the importance of settling British colonists
upon the land, and pressed for a "decision on the main issues" raised by this question.

[Sidenote: Land settlement.]

     "This subject has for long occupied my attention," he wrote,
     "and, in a tentative way, a good deal has been done. But we have
     reached a point where little more progress can be made without a
     decision on the main issues. The question is, whether British
     colonisation is to be undertaken on a large and effective scale,
     under Government control and with Government assistance, or to be
     left to take care of itself, with whatever little help and
     sympathy an Administration, devoid of any general plan, and with
     no special funds devoted to the particular purpose, can give
     it.... The principal consideration is the necessity of avoiding a
     sharp contrast and antagonism in the character and sentiments of
     the population between the country districts and the towns. If we
     do nothing, we shall be confronted, sooner or later, with an
     industrial urban population, rapidly increasing, and almost
     wholly British in sentiment, and, on the other hand, a rural
     population, wholly Dutch, agriculturally unprogressive. It is not
     possible to contemplate such a state of affairs without grave
     misgivings. We shall have to reinstate the bulk of our prisoners
     upon their farms, and provide them with the means of starting
     life anew, but unless we at the same time introduce some new
     element we may be simply laying up the material for further
     trouble. The land will remain as neglected, the attitude of the
     rural population as unprogressive, and as much out of sympathy
     with British ideas as ever.... To satisfy these demands, it is
     clear that no small and makeshift scheme will suffice. Land
     settlement must be undertaken on a large scale; otherwise,
     however useful, it will be politically unimportant.

     "The time is fast approaching when it will be absolutely
     necessary to raise loans for both new colonies to meet expenses
     arising immediately out of the war. I wish to place on record my
     profound conviction that unless, in raising these loans, we
     provide a substantial sum for the purchase of land and the
     settlement thereon of farmers of British race, an opportunity
     will be lost which will never recur, and the neglect of which
     will have the most prejudicial effect on the future peace and
     prosperity of South Africa. I do not, indeed, ask that these
     first loans should include a sum as large as may ultimately be
     required if land settlement is to assume the proportions which I
     contemplate. But, if our first considerable undertakings in this
     line are proving themselves successful, I foresee no difficulty
     in obtaining more money later on, should we require it. What I do
     fear is a check now, when we ought to be in a position to seize
     every possible opportunity of getting hold of land suitable to
     our purpose, and of retaining in the country such men as we want
     to put on it. If we lose the next year or two we lose the game,
     and without that power of acting promptly, which a ready command
     of money alone can give, we shall begin to throw away
     opportunities from this moment at which I am writing onwards.

     "What I want to put plainly to His Majesty's Government are these
     two questions: (1) Are we to be allowed to go on purchasing good
     land, by voluntary agreement wherever possible, but compulsorily,
     if necessary? And, assuming this question to be answered in the
     affirmative, (2) what amount shall we be able to dispose of for
     this purpose in the immediate future?"[319]

         [Footnote 319: Cd. 1,163.]

It had been arranged during Lord Milner's last visit to England that the large expenditure
inevitably arising out of the economic reconstruction and future development of the new colonies,
should be provided by a loan secured upon their assets and revenues. The purposes for which
this immediate outlay was especially required were the acquisition of the existing railways
and the construction of new lines, land settlement, the repatriation of the Boers, and the
compensation of loyalists for war losses both in the new colonies and in the Cape and Natal.
Lord Milner now proposed that the Home Government should decide to appropriate, out of the
funds to be thus raised, a sum of £3,000,000 to land settlement, and that of this sum £2,000,000
should be spent in the Transvaal and £1,000,000 in the Orange Colony. The "development" loan,
as it was called, was not issued until after Mr. Chamberlain's visit to South Africa in the
(South African) summer of 1902-3; but Lord Milner's proposal was approved in principle, and
he was enabled to employ the limited resources at his disposal in the purchase of blocks of
land suitable for the purposes of agriculture in both colonies.

Apart from the progress thus achieved in this matter of supreme importance, as Lord Milner
deemed it, to the future of South Africa, the preparation of the administrative machinery,
the matériel of transport, and the supplies of all kinds required for the repatriation of the
Boers, was pushed forward with increasing activity. At the same time certain other administrative
questions were brought by him to the consideration of the Home Government during these months
(January to May, 1902), with the result that the ink was scarcely dry upon the Treaty of Surrender
before he was able to ask for, and obtain, decisions upon them.

[Sidenote: On the eve of peace.]

The telegrams which passed between Lord Milner and the Colonial Office on these matters, during
the weeks immediately preceding and following the Vereeniging surrender, are significant. Beside
the clear thrust of Lord Milner's calculated energy, Mr. Chamberlain's efforts to keep pace
with the needs of the situation sink into comparative inertia. On April 18th Lord Milner telegraphs
the particulars of the 10 per cent. tax which he proposes to levy on the net produce of the
mining industry. The rate is high--twice as high as the gold tax under the Republic--and will
yield an annual revenue of £500,000 or £600,000 on a basis of the present normal production
of the mines; but he believes that it will be "accepted without serious opposition, if it is
imposed while the industry is rapidly advancing." And he expresses the hope that the explanation
which he has furnished will be "sufficient to show the principles" of the tax, and that he
may publicly announce the decision on this matter of such general economic importance at once.
Mr. Chamberlain, however, requires further information; and we find Lord Milner telegraphing
on June 2nd: "I trust you will now agree to the tax on the profits of gold mines; I am anxious
to publish the Proclamation in next Friday's Gazette." And to this Mr. Chamberlain replies
on June 4th, "I agree to the imposition of a 10 per cent. tax on the profits of gold mines."
On June 2nd, that is, two days after the terms of surrender have been signed at Pretoria, Lord
Milner sends a "most urgent" telegram on the immediate financial position:

     "The departments are still very busy with the estimates of the
     new colonies and Constabulary. They are rather late this year,
     but that was quite unavoidable. The result promises to be good.
     We can pay for all normal expenditure and the 6,000 South African
     Constabulary out of revenue. But, as you know, there is nothing
     provided for the various extraordinary items which have been
     hitherto financed out of the £500,000 grant for relief and
     re-settlement. In all my estimates I have relied on a loan for
     this. As I understand, the loan is deferred. As the £500,000 is
     nearly exhausted, and it would be disastrous if land settlement,
     which latter is at last making good progress, were stopped,
     especially at this juncture, I would ask for immediate authority
     to spend another £500,000 on these purposes. This is independent
     of the amounts which will be required under the last clause of
     the Terms of Surrender, about which I will address you
     immediately. I earnestly hope that there may be no delay in
     acceding to this request. The work to be got through in the
     immediate future is so enormous that, unless we can get the
     fundamental questions of finance settled promptly, a breakdown
     is inevitable. It would be a great relief to my mind to feel that
     services already started and working well were provided for at
     least for some months ahead, before I plunge into the new and
     heavy job of restoring the Boer population, which will require
     all my attention in the immediate future."[320]

         [Footnote 320: Cd. 1,163.]

Mr. Chamberlain's reply comes on June 18th:

     "You may incur expenditure up to £500,000 more for relief and
     re-settlement, pending the issue of the loan."

On June 10th Lord Milner telegraphs an outline scheme for repatriating the Boers. "As time
presses," he concludes, "I am going ahead on these lines; but I am anxious to know that they
have your general approval." The reply, dated June 18th, is: "The proposals are approved generally.
Send by post a report on the details of the arrangement and the persons appointed." At the
same time Lord Milner has been pressing for a decision on the question of land settlement.
He has sent a despatch on May 9th containing full particulars of the terms upon which it is
proposed to offer and to suitable applicants; and he now telegraphs, on June 20th:

[Sidenote: "It is vital to make a start".]

     "If you could agree generally to the terms in my despatch, I
     would immediately deal with some of the most pressing cases on
     those lines. The terms may be improved upon later; meanwhile it
     is vital to make a start."

There is land available, and there are men available--over-sea colonists, and yeomen with a
knowledge of agriculture, who have fought in the war, and have, therefore, a first claim to
be considered. But these desirable settlers cannot afford to wait in a country like South Africa,
where the cost of living is abnormally high, without a definite prospect of employment.

     "Unless something is done at once," he says, "there will be
     bitter complaint. [The Transvaal] Government is already being
     severely, though unjustly, criticised for the delay."

This is answered by Mr. Chamberlain's telegram of July 7th, in which he "concurs generally"
in Lord Milner's proposals, and leaves him "full discretion to deal with the details of the
scheme, which it is not possible to criticise effectively" in London.

In a telegram of June 21st we get the announcement of the formal initiation of Crown Colony
government:

     "I have this day read and published the Letters Patent," Lord
     Milner says, "constituting the Government of the Transvaal, and
     my Commission; and I have taken the prescribed oath."

And on July 3rd he suggests that an announcement should be made at once of the intention of
the Home Government to enlarge the Legislative Councils of both colonies by the admission of
a non-official element:

[Sidenote: Colonists and the settlement.]

     "I felt at one time that in the case of the Transvaal this would
     be unworkable," he adds, "but my present opinion is strongly to
     the effect that we should seize the opportunity of the present
     improved feeling between the Dutch and British in the new
     colonies to commence co-operation between them in the conduct of
     public business."

To this proposal Mr. Chamberlain gives his approval in a brief telegram of July 7th.[321]

         [Footnote 321: Cd. 1,163.]

Bare and jejune as are these telegrams, they tell us something of the spirit of relentless
vigour by which Lord Milner drove the cumbrous wheels of Downing Street into quicker revolutions
at the shifting of the scenes from war to peace. Within six weeks of the surrender of Vereeniging
he was fully engaged in what he afterwards called "the tremendous effort, wise or unwise in
various particulars, made after the war, not only to repair its ravages, but also to re-start
the new colonies on a far higher plane of civilisation than they had ever previously attained."[322]
The story of this "tremendous effort," with its economic problems and its political agitations,
must be reserved for a separate volume. It only remains, therefore, to relate the part which
Lord Milner played in determining the conditions under which the republican Dutch were incorporated
into the system of British South Africa.

         [Footnote 322: At Johannesburg, March 31st, 1905. From The
         Star report.]

Before we approach the actual circumstances which accompanied the surrender of the Boer forces
in the field, it is necessary to recall the exchange of views on the subject of the settlement
of the new colonies which took place between the Imperial authorities and the Governments of
the Cape and Natal in the early months of the preceding year (1901). In these communications--the
origin of which has been mentioned previously[323]--the significance attached by loyalist opinion
in South Africa to certain questions, necessarily left undetermined in Mr. Chamberlain's pronouncements
of the general policy of the British Government, was fully disclosed. The Cape ministers, while
recognising that full representative self-government should be conferred at an early date,
unhesitatingly affirmed the necessity of maintaining a system of Crown Colony government until
"such time as it was certain that representative institutions could be established, due regard
being had to the paramount necessity of maintaining and strengthening British supremacy in
the colonies in question." And as, in their opinion, "this consummation would be ultimately
assured and materially strengthened by a large influx of immigrants favourably disposed to
British rule," they expressed the hope that "no time would be lost after the conclusion of
the war in putting into effect a large scheme of land settlement." More than this, with the
object-lesson of the actual breakdown of representative government in their own Colony before
their eyes, they added a recommendation that this British immigration should not be confined
to the new colonies, but that a portion of the funds to be provided by the Imperial Government
for this purpose should be allocated to the Cape Colony.

         [Footnote 323: See p. 489.]

[Sidenote: The language question.]

In the minute furnished by the Natal Ministry the question of the settlement of the new colonies
was discussed in greater detail, and in particular attention was drawn to the opportunities
for the promotion of a federal union of British South Africa, which the establishment of British
government in the former Republics would afford. The settlement of the new colonies, in their
opinion, should be so treated as to become a preliminary stage in the creation of a federal
administration which "should be accomplished, if possible, before intercolonial jealousies
and animosities should have had time to crystallise and become formidable." The Natal ministers,
therefore, insisted upon the importance of measures calculated to secure the predominance of
the English language in the new colonies. In support of this recommendation they pointed out
that the preservation of the "Taal" is purely a matter of sentiment. The Boer vernacular, so
called, "has neither a literature nor a grammar"; it is distinct from "the Dutch language used
in public offices and official documents." No one acquainted with the conditions of Boer life
will dispute the truth of this contention. The Boer child, if he is to receive an education
sufficient to qualify him for the public services, or for a professional or commercial career,
must in any case learn a second language; and since to learn the Dutch of Holland is no less
difficult--probably more difficult--to him than to learn English, the desire to have Dutch
taught in schools in preference to English becomes a matter of political sentiment, and not
of practical convenience. On the other hand, the strongest reasons exist for making English
the common language of both races. Apart from its superiority to Dutch as the literary vehicle
of the Anglo-Saxon world and the language of commerce, the predominance of the English language
is a matter which vitally affects the success of British policy in South Africa.

     "The general good of the new colonies and of South Africa
     generally," the Natal ministers wrote, "requires the predominance
     of the English language. The language question has done more,
     probably, than anything else to separate the races and to provoke
     racial animosity."

They, therefore, recommend that--

     "English should be the official and predominant language in the
     higher courts, and in the public service--combined with such
     concessions in favour of Dutch as justice, convenience, and
     circumstances may require. Dutch interpreters should be attached
     to all courts and to the principal public offices, and their
     services should be available free of charge, in civil as well as
     in criminal cases. English should be the medium of instruction in
     all secondary schools, and in all standards in primary schools
     situated in English districts, and in the higher standards in all
     other primary schools. Dutch should be the medium of instruction
     meanwhile in the lower forms in the Dutch districts, and it
     should be taught in all schools where there is a reasonable
     demand for it."[324]

         [Footnote 324: Cd. 1,163.]

On the question of disarmament they wrote:

     "In order to secure complete pacification, disarmament is
     necessary. Re-armament should not be allowed until both the new
     colonies are considered fit for self-government, and even then
     the carrying of arms and the issuing of ammunition should be
     contingent on the taking of the oath of allegiance."

[Sidenote: The native question.]

On the subject of the treatment of the natives in the new colonies, the remarks of the Natal
ministers are weighty and pertinent.

     "For a long while," they wrote, "the natives cannot be given
     political rights. The grant of such rights would have the effect
     of alienating the sympathy of English and Dutch alike, and would
     materially prejudice the good government of the new colonies, and
     be provocative of racial bitterness. In the meantime the natives
     should be taught habits of steady industry.

     "Officers appointed over the natives should be acquainted with
     their language and customs.

     "The assumption in England that colonists are unjust and brutal
     to the natives has worked great harm, and both Dutch and English
     have suffered from its influence.

     "A native policy out of sympathy with colonial views is likely,
     owing to the past history of South Africa, to arouse so strong a
     feeling that even the just rights of natives would be
     disregarded. It is essential, in the interests of the natives
     themselves, generally, that the Home Government should work in
     accord with colonial sentiments as a whole, and the great
     influence of a colonial minister in sympathy with colonists will
     secure far more reforms than will any attempt to over-rule local
     feeling."[325]

         [Footnote 325: Cd. 1,163.]

As one of certain immediately practicable steps in the direction of South African unity, the
Natal Ministry advocated "reciprocity" in the learned professions and the Civil Services of
the several colonies. To effect this purpose they recommended that uniform tests of professional
qualifications should be adopted throughout South Africa, and that public officers should be
allowed to proceed from the civil service of one colony to that of another, their separate
periods of service counting as continuous "for pension and other purposes." They also put forward
a claim for the incorporation of certain districts of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony
into Natal. The justice of this claim, in so far as it referred to a portion of Zululand wrongfully
annexed by the Transvaal Boers, was recognised by the Imperial Government, and the district
in question was transferred to Natal on the termination of the war.

As High Commissioner, Lord Milner was bound to prevent the grant of any terms to the Boers
inconsistent with the future maintenance of British supremacy in South Africa, now re-established
at so great a cost. As the representative man of the British in South Africa, he was no less
bound to see that the terms of surrender contained no concessions to the separatist aspirations
of the Boer people calculated to form an obstacle to the future administrative union of the
South African colonies. With this two-fold responsibility laid upon him, it is not surprising
that his view both of what might be conceded safely to the Boer leaders, and of how it might
be conceded, was somewhat different from that of the Commander-in-Chief. That the Boers themselves
were conscious of being likely to get more favourable terms from Lord Kitchener than from the
High Commissioner, is apparent from the anxiety which they displayed to deal exclusively with
the former. In this object, however, they were entirely unsuccessful, since the Home Government
indicated from the first their desire that Lord Milner should be present at the meetings for
negotiation; and in the end the terms of surrender were drafted by him with the assistance
of Sir Richard Solomon, the legal adviser to the Transvaal Administration.

[Sidenote: The peace negotiations.]

The actual circumstances in which the Vereeniging negotiations originated were these. Early
in the year 1902, when, as we have seen, the ultimate success of the military operations directed
by Lord Kitchener was assured, the Netherlands Government communicated their readiness to mediate
between the British Government and the Governments of the South African Republic and the Orange
Free State, with a view to the termination of hostilities. To this offer the British Government
replied that, while they were sincerely desirous of terminating the war, the only persons whom
they could recognise as competent to negotiate for peace were the leaders of the Boer forces
in the field. Lord Kitchener was directed, however, to forward a copy of the correspondence
between the British and Netherlands Governments to the Boer leaders. In acknowledging this
communication Mr. Schalk Burger, as acting President of the South African Republic, informed
Lord Kitchener that he was prepared to treat for peace, but that before doing so he wished
to see President Steyn. He, therefore, asked for a safe-conduct through the British lines and
back to effect this purpose. On March 13th, 1902, the Home Government authorised Lord Kitchener
to grant this request, if "he and Lord Milner agreed in thinking it desirable." As the result
of the consultation between Schalk Burger and Steyn, a conference of the Free State and Transvaal
leaders was held at Klerksdorp, at which it was decided, on April 10th, to request the British
Commander-in-Chief to receive representatives of the Boers personally, "time and place to be
appointed by him, in order to lay before him direct peace proposals." The approval of the Home
Government having been obtained, President Steyn, Mr. Schalk Burger, and Generals Botha, De
Wet, and De la Rey met Lord Kitchener and Lord Milner on April 12th, at Pretoria. The proposals
which the Boer representatives then put forward were wholly inadmissible. Nevertheless, Lord
Kitchener telegraphed them to London with the remark:

     "I have assured [the Boer representatives] that His Majesty's
     Government will not accept any proposals which would maintain the
     independence of the Republics, as this would do, and that they
     must expect a refusal."

[Sidenote: Independence refused.]

On the day following the British Government replied that they could not

     "entertain any proposals which were based upon the former
     independence of the Republics, which had been formally annexed to
     the British Crown."

Upon learning this reply President Steyn and his colleagues took up the position that they
were not competent to surrender the independence of their country, since only the "people,"
meaning thereby the burghers still in the field, could do this. They asked, therefore, for
an armistice to enable them to consult the burghers. This request was refused on the ground
that no basis of agreement had, as yet, been reached. The Boer representatives then asked that
the British Government should state the "terms which they were prepared to grant, subsequent
to a relinquishment of independence"; while they on their side undertook to refer these terms
to the people, "without any expression of approval or disapproval." In answer to this proposal
Lord Kitchener was authorised to refer the Boer representatives to the offer made by him to
General Botha at Middelburg twelve months before.

     "We have received," telegraphed the Secretary for War on April
     16th, "with considerable surprise the message from the Boer
     leaders contained in your telegram of 14th April.

     "The meeting was arranged at their request, and they must have
     been aware of our repeated declarations that we could not
     entertain any proposals based on the renewed independence of the
     two South African States. We were, therefore, entitled to assume
     that the Boer representatives had relinquished the idea of
     independence, and would propose terms of surrender for the forces
     still in the field.

     "They now state that they are constitutionally incompetent to
     discuss terms which do not include a restoration of independence,
     but request us to inform them what conditions would be granted
     if, after submitting the matter to their followers, they were to
     relinquish the demand for independence.

     "This does not seem to us to be a satisfactory method of
     proceeding, or one best adapted to secure, at the earliest
     moment, a cessation of the hostilities which have involved the
     loss of so much life and treasure.

     "We are, however, as we have been from the first, anxious to
     spare the effusion of further blood, and to hasten the
     restoration of peace and prosperity to the countries afflicted by
     the war; and you and Lord Milner are therefore authorised to
     refer the Boer leaders to the offer made by you to General Botha
     more than twelve months ago,[326] and to inform them that,
     although the subsequent great reduction in the strength of the
     forces opposed to us, and the additional sacrifice thrown upon us
     by the refusal of that offer would justify us in imposing far
     more onerous terms, we are still prepared, in the hope of a
     permanent peace and reconciliation, to accept a general surrender
     on the lines of that offer, but with such modifications in detail
     as may be agreed upon mutually.

     "You are also authorised to discuss such modifications with them,
     and to submit the result for our approval.

     "Communicate this to the High Commissioner."[327]

         [Footnote 326: For these, the "Middelburg" or "Botha" terms,
         see above, p. 471, and forward; p. 568, note 2.]

         [Footnote 327: Cd. 1,096.]

[Sidenote: Consulting the Burghers.]

Upon learning the contents of this telegram, the Boer representatives put forward the request
that their "deputation" in Europe, Mr. Abraham Fischer, Mr. Cornelius Wessels, and Mr. Wolmarans,[328]
might be allowed to return to South Africa to take part in the negotiations, and again asked
for an armistice while the return of the deputation and the subsequent meetings of the burghers
were taking place. Both these requests were refused on military grounds; but Lord Kitchener
was willing to grant facilities to the Boer leaders to consult the burghers, and arrangements
were made in the course of the next two days (April 17th-19th) for representatives of the Boer
commandos in the field--exclusive of those in the Cape Colony--to be elected, and meet at Vereeniging,
a small town on the Vaal near the border of the two colonies, on May 13th or 15th. During the
month that followed, every possible assistance was rendered by the Commander-in-Chief to the
Boer leaders with the object of enabling them to carry out these arrangements. Safe-conducts,
under flags of truce, and passes for their officers and messengers, were freely granted; and
the localities chosen for the commando assemblies, the places and dates of which had been notified
to Lord Kitchener before the Boer representatives left Pretoria, were "scrupulously avoided"
by the British troops. In spite, however, of the restrictions imposed upon the activity of
the forces under his command, Lord Kitchener was able to report, on June 1st, that "good progress"
had been made in the work of the campaign up to the actual cessation of hostilities.[329]

         [Footnote 328: This deputation was despatched in March, 1900,
         to "win the sympathy of the nations," in De Wet's words.]

         [Footnote 329: Cd. 986.]

The sixty Boer representatives--two for each commando--thus assembled at Vereeniging appointed,
on May 18th, a special commission to treat for peace. The commissioners, who included Commandant-Generals
Louis Botha and Christian De Wet, Generals Hertzog, De la Rey and Smuts, and President Steyn,
Acting President Schalk Burger, and other civilians,[330] proceeded at once to Pretoria, where,
on May 19th, they met Lord Kitchener and Lord Milner in conference, and put forward the following
three proposals as a basis of negotiation:

         [Footnote 330: A full list of the names is to be found in the
         Draft Terms of Surrender at p. 564.]

[Sidenote: The terms drafted.]

     "(1) We are prepared to surrender our independence as regards
     foreign relations. (2) We wish to retain self-government under
     British supervision. (3) We are prepared to surrender a part of
     our territory."

What then happened can be told in the words of Lord Kitchener's telegram to the Secretary for War:

     "Lord Milner and I refused to accept these terms as a basis for
     negotiation, as they differ essentially from the principles laid
     down by His Majesty's Government. After a long discussion,
     nothing was decided, and it was determined to meet in the
     afternoon. The Commission met again at 4 p.m., when Lord Milner
     proposed a form of document that might be submitted to the
     burghers for a 'Yes' or 'No' vote. There was a good deal of
     objection to this, but it was agreed finally that Lord Milner
     should meet Smuts and Hertzog with a view of drafting, as far as
     possible, an acceptable document on the Botha lines.[331] They
     will meet to-morrow for that purpose. Lord Milner stipulated for
     the assistance of Sir Richard Solomon in the preparation of the
     draft document."[332]

         [Footnote 331: These were the "Middelburg terms" of a year
         ago. See note 2, p. 568.]

         [Footnote 332: Cd. 1,096.]

The "long discussion" of May 19th, to which Lord Kitchener refers, is to be found in the minutes
of the conferences held at Pretoria between May 19th and 28th. It affords an exhibition of
gross disingenuousness on the part of the Boer commissioners. Almost in the same breath they
allege that their proposal is "not necessarily in contradiction to"[333] the Middelburg terms;
admit that there is a "fundamental difference" between the two proposals, but ask that their
own may be accepted, nevertheless, as the basis of negotiation;[334] and finally maintain that,
as it is "nearly equivalent"[335] to the Middelburg terms, they need not "insist so much" upon
it.[336] To all this Lord Milner has but one answer: "It is impossible for us to take your
proposal into consideration."

         [Footnote 333: Smuts.]

         [Footnote 334: Hertzog.]

         [Footnote 335: De Wet.]

         [Footnote 336: Botha.]

[Sidenote: Payment of Boer war debts.]

On May 21st the document drafted by Lord Milner and Sir R. Solomon in consultation with Mr.
Smuts (General and ex-State Attorney of the Transvaal) and Mr. Hertzog (General and late Judge
of the Free State High Court) on the preceding day, was read at a plenary meeting of the negotiators.
In the main the document was accepted with little demur; but a long discussion arose on the
question of the degree in which the the British Government would recognise the debts incurred
by military and civil officers of the late Republics in the course of the war. The Boers desired
that all Government notes and all receipts given by their officers for goods, whether commandeered
or not, should be recognised to be part of the liabilities of the Republican Governments for
which the new Government was to become responsible. Lord Milner, on the other hand, expressed
the opinion that such a demand was very unreasonable. The British Government would take over,
with the assets of the Republican Governments, all liabilities existing at the time when the
war broke out, but it could not be expected to pay for expenses actually incurred by the Boer
leaders in carrying on a war against itself, which was, in its later stages, at any rate, utterly
indefensible. The British people, he said--

     "would much prefer to pay a large sum at the conclusion of
     hostilities with the object of bettering the condition of the
     people who have been fighting against them, than to pay a much
     smaller sum to meet the costs incurred by the Republics during
     the war."

As, however, the principle of the recognition of these notes and receipts had been conceded
in the Middelburg terms, he was willing, with Lord Kitchener's concurrence, to refer the matter
to the Home Government, although he disapproved of the clause in question in the Middelburg terms.

This point was thus left to be settled by the Home Government, and the clause which they drafted
to deal with it was that which ultimately became Article X. of the Terms of Surrender. That
clause represented a compromise between the desire of the Boer leaders to have a definite sum
allotted for the payment of debts contracted by them in the course of the war, and Lord Milner's
desire to ignore these debts but to make a free grant for the relief of the Boer people. The
British Government followed Lord Milner in making such a free grant--£3,000,000--and in rejecting
the claim of the Boer leaders that this sum should be devoted to the payment of the promissory
notes and receipts issued by them but it nevertheless allowed such notes and receipts to be
submitted "as evidence of war losses" to the commissioners who were to be appointed to distribute
the £3,000,000 grant.

The minutes of these discussions reveal very clearly the difference in the respective attitudes
of the High Commissioner and the Commander-in-Chief. Lord Kitchener was the humane and successful
general, anxious to bring the miseries of the war to an end, and anxious, too, to close a campaign
which, in spite of its difficult and arduous character, had afforded little or no opportunity
of reaping military honours commensurate to the skill and endurance of the army or the sacrifices
of the nation. Lord Milner was the far-sighted statesman, responsible for the future well-being
of British South Africa, and, above all, the jealous trustee of the rights and interests of
the empire. At this meeting, when the draft terms are being discussed before they are telegraphed
to London, Lord Milner is exceedingly careful to point out to the Boer commissioners that the
actual text of the document, as expressed in English, when once accepted, must be regarded
as the sole record of the terms of surrender. After reading the proposed draft, he says: "If
we come to an agreement, it will be the English document which will be wired to England, on
which His Majesty's Government will decide, and which will be signed." To Mr. Smuts' suggestion
that it is not necessary to place a "formal clause" in the draft agreement, if the British
Government is prepared to meet the Boer commissioners in a particular matter, he replies:

     "As I look at the matter, the Government is making certain
     promises in this document, and I consider that all promises to
     which a reference may be made later should appear in it.
     Everything to which the Government is asked to bind itself should
     appear in this document, and nothing else. I do not object to
     clauses being added, but I wish to prevent any possible
     misunderstanding."

[Sidenote: Lord Milner's vigilance.]

And again, in the course of the same meeting, we find him saying: "You must put in writing
every point that strikes you, and let them be laid before His Majesty's Government." And, to
prevent any possible misconstruction of Lord Kitchener's statement, "there is a pledge that
the matter [the question of the payment of receipts] will be properly considered," he says:

     "Yes, naturally, if we put anything down in writing. I am
     convinced that it is necessary to make it quite clear that this
     document must contain everything about which there is anything in
     the form of a pledge."

And before telegraphing the draft agreement to the Home Government he draws the attention of
the commissioners in the most explicit language to the fact that the Middelburg proposal has
been "completely annulled"; and that, therefore, if the draft agreement should be signed, there
must be "no attempt to explain the document, or its terms, by anything in the Middelburg proposal."

The greatness of the debt owed by England and the empire to Lord Milner for the inflexible
determination with which he penetrated, unmasked, and finally baffled the tortuous diplomacy
of the Boer commissioners may be estimated from the fact that within three months of the signing
of the Surrender Agreement at Pretoria, three out of their number asked the British Government
to re-open the discussion and make, what Mr. Chamberlain rightly termed, "an entirely new agreement."
As it was, Lord Milner's faultless precision during the whole progress of the negotiations
at Pretoria provided the Home Government with a complete answer to the representatives of the
Boer "delegates."

     "It would not be in accordance with my duty," wrote Mr.
     Chamberlain,[337] "to enter upon any discussion of proposals of
     this kind, some of which were rejected at the conferences at
     Pretoria; while others, which were not even mentioned on those
     occasions, would certainly not have been accepted at any time by
     His Majesty's Government."

         [Footnote 337: Mr. Chamberlain to Generals Botha, De Wet, and
         De la Rey, August 28th, 1902. Cd. 1,284.]

[Sidenote: Approval of Home Government.]

At the close of the afternoon meeting (May 21st) the draft agreement was telegraphed to the
Home Government. On the 27th Mr. Chamberlain informed Lord Milner by telegram that the Cabinet
approved of the submission of this document with certain minor alterations, and with the new
clause dealing with the grant of £3,000,000, to the Assembly at Vereeniging. Meanwhile the
nature of the penalties to be inflicted upon the colonial rebels, a subject which had been
discussed in private conversations between the Boer leaders and Lords Kitchener and Milner,
but which was excluded from the "Terms of Surrender," had been settled by communications which
had passed between Lord Milner and Mr. Chamberlain and the Governments of the Cape and Natal.
The reason for this course was that the Home Government and Lord Milner, while they objected
on principle to the treatment of rebels being made part of the agreement with the surrendering
enemy, were nevertheless quite willing that the latter should be informed of the clemency which
it was, in any case, intended to show to the rebels. The Terms of Surrender, in the form given
to them by the Home Government, and the statement of the treatment to be meted out to the rebels
by their respective Governments, were communicated to the Boer commissioners on May 28th. At
the same time they were distinctly told that His Majesty's Government was not prepared to listen
to any suggestion of further modifications of the Terms, but that they must be submitted to
the assembly for a "Yes" or "No" vote as an unalterable whole. The Boer commissioners left
at 7 o'clock in the evening of the same day for Vereeniging, and on the day following the Terms
of Surrender were submitted to the "Yes" or "No" vote of the burgher representatives. One other
point had been raised and settled between Lord Milner and the Home Government. Under the Proclamation
of August 7th, 1901, certain of the Boer leaders were liable to the penalties of confiscation
and banishment. Lord Milner was of opinion, however, that in view of the general surrender
this proclamation should be "tacitly dropped," although property already confiscated under
its terms could not, of course, be restored; and in this view the Home Government concurred.

The text of the document submitted to the burgher representatives at Vereeniging on May 29th
was as follows:

     "Draft Agreement as to the Terms of Surrender of the Boer Forces
     in the Field, approved by His Majesty's Government.

     "His Excellency General Lord Kitchener and his Excellency Lord
     Milner, on behalf of the British Government, and Messrs. M. T.
     Steyn, J. Brebner, General C. R. De Wet, General C. Olivier, and
     Judge J. B. M. Hertzog, acting as the Government of the Orange
     Free State, and Messrs. S. W. Burger, F. W. Reitz, Generals Louis
     Botha, J. H. Delarey, Lucas Meyer, Krogh, acting as the
     Government of the South African Republic, on behalf of their
     respective burghers desirous to terminate the present
     hostilities, agree on the following articles:

[Sidenote: The surrender agreement.]

     "1. The burgher forces in the field will forthwith lay down their
     arms, handing over all guns, rifles, and munitions of war in
     their possession or under their control, and desist from any
     further resistance to the authority of His Majesty King Edward
     VII., whom they recognise as their lawful Sovereign. The manner
     and details of this surrender will be arranged between Lord
     Kitchener and Commandant-General Botha, Assistant
     Commandant-General Delarey, and Chief Commandant De Wet.

     "2. All burghers in the field outside the limits of the Transvaal
     or Orange River Colony, and all prisoners of war at present
     outside South Africa who are burghers will, on duly declaring
     their acceptance of the position of subjects of His Majesty King
     Edward VII., be gradually brought back to their homes as soon as
     transport can be provided, and their means of subsistence
     ensured.

     "3. The burghers so surrendering or so returning will not be
     deprived of their personal liberty or their property.

     "4. No proceedings, civil or criminal, will be taken against any
     of the burghers surrendering or so returning for any acts in
     connection with the prosecution of the war. The benefit of this
     clause will not extend to certain acts, contrary to usages of
     war, which have been notified by the Commander-in-Chief to the
     Boer generals, and which shall be tried by court-martial
     immediately after the close of hostilities.

     "5. The Dutch language will be taught in public schools in the
     Transvaal and Orange River Colony where the parents of the
     children desire it, and will be allowed in courts of law when
     necessary for the better and more effectual administration of
     justice.

     "6. The possession of rifles will be allowed in the Transvaal and
     Orange River Colony to persons requiring them for their
     protection, on taking out a licence according to law.

     "7. Military administration in the Transvaal and Orange River
     Colony will at the earliest possible date be succeeded by civil
     government, and, as soon as circumstances permit, representative
     institutions, leading up to self-government, will be introduced.

     "8. The question of granting the franchise to the natives will
     not be decided until after the introduction of self-government.

     "9. No special tax will be imposed on landed property in the
     Transvaal and Orange River Colony to defray the expenses of the
     war.

     "10. As soon as conditions permit, a Commission, on which the
     local inhabitants will be represented, will be appointed in each
     district of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony, under the
     presidency of a magistrate or other official, for the purposes of
     assisting the restoration of the people to their homes, and
     supplying those who, owing to war losses, are unable to provide
     themselves with food, shelter, and the necessary amount of seed,
     stock, implements, etc., indispensable to the resumption of their
     normal occupation.

     "His Majesty's Government will place at the disposal of these
     Commissions a sum of £3,000,000 for the above purposes, and will
     allow all notes issued under Law 1 of 1900 of the South African
     Republic, and all receipts given by officers in the field of the
     late Republics, or under their orders, to be presented to a
     Judicial Commission, which will be appointed by the Government,
     and if such notes and receipts are found by this Commission to
     have been duly issued in return for valuable considerations, they
     will be received by the first-named Commissions as evidence of
     war losses suffered by the persons to whom they were originally
     given.

     "In addition to the above-named free grant of £3,000,000, His
     Majesty's Government will be prepared to make advances on loan
     for the same purposes free of interest for two years, and
     afterwards repayable over a period of years with 3 per cent.
     interest. No foreigner or rebel will be entitled to the benefit
     of this clause."[338]

         [Footnote 338: Cd. 1,096. President Steyn was too ill to sign
         the Agreement, and De Wet signed first of the Free State
         representatives. He was declared President, in the place of
         Steyn, at Vereeniging on the 29th.]

[Sidenote: Punishment of rebels.]

To this must be added the following statement as to the punishment of the colonial rebels,
a copy of which was handed to the Boer commissioners on May 28th, after it (together with the
Terms of Surrender) had been read to them by Lord Milner.

     "His Majesty's Government must place it on record that the
     treatment of Cape and Natal colonists who have been in rebellion
     and who now surrender will, if they return to their colonies, be
     determined by the colonial Governments and in accordance with the
     laws of the colonies, and that any British subjects who have
     joined the enemy will be liable to trial under the law of that
     part of the British Empire to which they belong.

     "His Majesty's Government are informed by the Cape Government
     that the following are their views as to the terms which should
     be granted to British subjects of Cape Colony who are now in the
     field, or who have surrendered, or have been captured since 12th
     April, 1901:

     "With regard to the rank and file, they should all, upon
     surrender, after giving up their arms, sign a document before the
     resident magistrate of the district in which the surrender takes
     place acknowledging themselves guilty of high treason, and the
     punishment to be awarded to them, provided they shall not have
     been guilty of murder or other acts contrary to the usages of
     civilised warfare, should be that they shall not be entitled for
     life[339] to be registered as voters or to vote at any
     Parliamentary Divisional Council, or municipal election. With
     reference to justices of the peace and field-cornets of Cape
     Colony and all other persons holding an official position under
     the Government of Cape Colony or who may occupy the position of
     commandant of rebel or burgher forces, they shall be tried for
     high treason before the ordinary court of the country or such
     special court as may be hereafter constituted by law, the
     punishment for their offence to be left to the discretion of the
     court, with this proviso, that in no case shall the penalty of
     death be inflicted.

     "The Natal Government are of opinion that rebels should be dealt
     with according to the law of the Colony."[340]

         [Footnote 339: This was reduced to a period of five years.]

         [Footnote 340: Cd. 1,096. As compared with the Middelburg
         terms, the terms accepted at Vereeniging were slightly less
         favourable to the Boers in respect of permission to possess
         arms, and the use of the Dutch language; but the monetary
         assistance promised to the repatriated burghers was more
         generous. The free grant was raised from one million to three
         millions, and the advances on loan were offered for the first
         two years free of interest, and subsequently at only three
         per cent. The greater destruction of property consequent upon
         the prolongation of the war made this increased assistance
         necessary and reasonable. It is noticeable, however, that
         Lord Milner, alike in the Middelburg and Vereeniging
         negotiations, although he was opposed to any payment of the
         costs incurred by the Boer leaders in carrying on the war,
         was prepared to go even farther than the Home Government in
         the direction of a generous treatment of the Boers in all
         other matters that concerned their material prosperity.

         One variation as between the Middelburg and Vereeniging terms
         is noticeable in view of the statement, made in the House of
         Commons by the present (1906) Under-Secretary for the
         Colonies (Mr. Winston Churchill), that the use of the word
         "natives" in clause viii. of the Terms of Surrender prevented
         the introduction of any legislation affecting the status of
         Asiatics and "coloured persons" in the new colonies prior to
         the establishment of self-government. This assertion was
         based upon the contention that the word "natives" is
         understood by the Boers to indicate the "native of any
         country other than those of the European inhabitants of South
         Africa." The actual text of the corresponding clause in the
         Middelburg terms (Lord Kitchener's despatch of March 20th,
         1901, in Cd. 528) is as follows: "As regards the extension of
         the franchise to the Kafirs in the Transvaal and Orange River
         Colony, it is not the intention of His Majesty's Government
         to give such franchise before representative government is
         granted to these colonies, and if then given it will be so
         limited as to secure the just predominance of the white
         races. The legal position of coloured persons will, however,
         be similar to that which they hold in Cape Colony." Apart
         from the fact that the Boers were debarred by Lord Milner's
         specific statements either from going behind the English text
         of the Vereeniging Terms of Surrender, or from "explaining
         [the Vereeniging Terms] by anything in the Middelburg
         proposal," it is difficult to see how this Middelburg clause
         could have raised any presumption in the minds of the Boer
         commissioners that the English word "native" was intended to
         include not only the Kafirs (of which word it is a loose
         equivalent, since the dark-skinned native of the Bantu
         tribes, or the Kafir, has practically ousted the aboriginal
         yellow-skinned natives of South Africa--the Bushmen and
         Hottentots), but the "coloured people," or half-castes.

         Lord Milner himself declared in the House of Lords (July
         31st, 1906) with reference to Mr. Churchill's statement that
         the question had not been raised, to the best of his belief,
         by the Boer commissioners; and that in any case there was
         nothing in the Vereeniging Agreement to prevent the Crown
         Colony administration of the new colonies from legislating in
         respect of "coloured persons." [And a fortiori in respect
         of British Indians.] His words were: "The English text of the
         treaty says 'natives' and does not say 'coloured people.' I
         think that in the Dutch version the word 'naturellen' was
         used. I venture to say that nobody familiar with the common
         use of language in South Africa would hold either that
         'natives' included coloured people, some of whom very much
         more resemble whites than natives, or that 'naturellen'
         included 'kleurlingen,' which is the universally accepted
         Dutch word in South Africa for coloured people."]

[Sidenote: The last debates.]

[Sidenote: Accepting the inevitable.]

With the departure of the Boer commissioners from Pretoria the final stage of the protracted
negotiations had been reached, but it still required three days of discussion (May 29th-31st)
before the assembly at Vereeniging could be brought to accept the inevitable. On the morning
of the 29th the delegates assembled in the tent provided by the British military authorities,
and a report of the proceedings of the peace conferences at Pretoria, drawn up by the Boer
commissioners on the preceding evening, was read. According to the understanding between the
Boer commissioners and the British authorities, the Surrender Agreement should have been submitted
forthwith to the delegates for acceptance or rejection. This course was actually proposed,
but a resolution to that effect was immediately negatived on the ground that "the matter was
too important to be treated with so much haste." The explanation of the delay is probably to
be found in the circumstance that, although the Boer leaders had left Pretoria convinced, as
a body, of both the desirability and the necessity of accepting the British terms, each of
them was anxious, individually, to avoid any action which would fix the responsibility of the
surrender upon himself. They refrained, therefore, as long as possible from any decisive declaration,
each one desiring that his neighbour should be the first to speak the final word. And so, instead
of the question of submission being put to the vote immediately after the delegates had acquainted
themselves with the actual meaning of the Surrender Agreement, two days were consumed in a
long and protracted discussion, and the British terms were not accepted until the afternoon
of Saturday, the 31st, the latest possible moment within the limit of time fixed by the British
Commander-in-Chief. In this long debate Louis Botha consistently advocated submission; but
De Wet spoke more than once in favour of continuing the war. One of the arguments used by the
Free State Commander-in-Chief is instructive. "Remembering that the sympathy for us, which
is to be found in England itself," he said, "may be regarded as being, for all practical purposes,
a sort of indirect intervention, I maintain that this terrible struggle must be continued."
The really decisive utterance seems to have come in the form of a long and eloquent speech
delivered by Mr. Smuts, the substance of which lies in the fine sentence: "We must not sacrifice
the Afrikander nation itself upon the altar of independence." From this moment the discussion
increased in vehemence, until, in the words of the minutes, "after a time of heated dispute--for
every man was preparing himself for the bitter end--they came to an agreement." Then a long
resolution, drawn up by Hertzog and Smuts, and empowering the commissioners to sign the Surrender
Agreement, was adopted by 54 to 6 votes.

         [Footnote 341: The minutes of the final meetings of the
         commando representatives--as also those of the earlier
         meetings of May 15th to 17th--have been published by General
         Christian de Wet in The Three Years' War.]

After the vote on the British terms had been taken, a resolution constituting a committee[342]
to collect funds for the destitute Boers was passed; and the Peace Commissioners, having telegraphed
the decision of the delegates to Lord Kitchener, hastened back by train to sign the Surrender
Agreement at Pretoria.

         [Footnote 342: Three of the members of this committee,
         Generals Botha, De Wet, and De la Rey, were instructed to
         proceed to Europe for the purposes of this appeal.]

Late in the afternoon of May 31st, Lord Milner, who had returned to Johannesburg on the 28th,
and had been busily engaged on administrative matters while the discussion at Vereeniging was
going on, was informed that Lord Kitchener wished to speak to him on the telephone. Then, along
the wire, in the familiar voice of the Commander-in-Chief, came the welcome words: "It is peace."
There was just time to pack up and catch the half-past six train, which brought the High Commissioner
to Pretoria at a quarter past eight. Lord Milner and his staff, when at Pretoria, habitually
stayed at the former British Agency, but this night he dined with Lord Kitchener; and here,
at Lord Kitchener's house, the Boer commissioners appeared at about 10 o'clock, and just before
eleven (May 31st) the Surrender Agreement was signed.[343]

         [Footnote 343: The actual surrender of the arms in the
         possession of the burgher and rebel commandos was carried out
         with admirable promptitude. Three weeks after the agreement
         had been signed Lord Kitchener was able, in a final despatch
         from Capetown on June 23rd, to record his "high appreciation
         of the unflagging energy and unfailing tact" with which
         Generals Louis Botha, De la Rey, and Christian de Wet had
         facilitated the work of the British commissioners appointed
         to receive the surrender of the burghers in the Transvaal and
         Orange River Colony. Nor were the Boer and rebel commandos in
         the Cape Colony less expeditious in surrendering to General
         French. In all 21,226 burghers and colonial rebels, of whom
         11,166 were in the Transvaal, 6,455 in the Orange River
         Colony, and 3,635 in the Cape, laid down their arms. Lord
         Kitchener's last words (despatches of June 21st and 23rd),
         addressed respectively to the Colonial Governments and the
         Secretary of State for War, are noticeable and characteristic
         utterances. His message to the former was:

              "I find it difficult in the short space at my disposal
              to acknowledge the deep obligation of the Army in South
              Africa to the Governments of Australia, New Zealand,
              Canada, Cape Colony, and Natal. I will only say here
              that no request of mine was ever refused by any of these
              Governments, and that their consideration and generosity
              were only equalled by the character and quality of the
              troops they sent to South Africa, or raised in that
              country."

         And of the troops, which under his command had successfully
         accomplished a military task of unparalleled difficulty, he
         wrote:

              "The protracted struggle which has for so long caused
              suffering to South Africa has at length terminated, and
              I should fail to do justice to my own feelings if at
              this moment I neglected to bear testimony to the
              patience, tenacity, and heroism which has been displayed
              by all ranks of His Majesty's forces, Imperial and
              Colonial, during the whole course of the war. Nothing
              but the qualities of bravery and endurance in our troops
              could have overcome the difficulties of this campaign,
              or have finally enabled the empire to reap the fruits of
              all its sacrifices."]

[Sidenote: Admissions of the Boer leaders.]

The words used by the Boer leaders in the course of the debates at Vereeniging afford culminating
and conclusive evidence of the hollowness of the two allegations upon which both the Boer sympathisers
in England and the hostile critics of the British people abroad, based their denunciations
of the policy and conduct of the war in South Africa. The war was unnecessary; it was a war
of aggression forced upon the Boers by the British Government, said the enemies of England,
and those Englishmen who, like Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, wrote and spoke as though they
belonged to the enemy. Very different is the account of the origin of the war, which Acting
President Schalk-Burger gave to the remnant of his fellow countrymen in this day of truth-telling.

     "Undoubtedly we began this war strong in the faith of God," he
     said; "but there were also one or two other things to rely upon.
     We had considerable confidence in our own weapons; we
     under-estimated the enemy; the fighting spirit had seized upon
     our people; and the thought of victory had banished that of the
     possibility of defeat."

And Mr. J. L. Meyer, a member of the Government of the Republic, and one of the few progressive
Boers whose judgment had not been clouded by the fever of war passion, said: "In the past I
was against the war; I wished that the five years' franchise should be granted;" and this "although
the people had opposed" the measure. This is evidence which we may believe, since in the circumstances
in which these men met the Father of Lies himself would have found no occasion for departing
from the truth.

[Sidenote: The Burgher camps.]

No less conclusive is the admission, made with perfect frankness now that shifts and deceits
and calumnies were no longer of any use, that the Boers, whatever they said, had proved by
their acts that they regarded the burgher camps as havens of refuge, not "methods of barbarism";
and that it was Lord Kitchener's refusal to admit any more Boer non-combatants to the shelter
of the British lines that brought the guerilla leaders to Pretoria to sue for peace. On May
29th General de Wet, in a last effort to induce the burghers to prolong the war, said:

     "I am asked what I mean to do with the women and children. That
     is a very difficult question to answer. We must have faith. I
     think also we might meet the emergency in this way--a part of the
     men should be told off to lay down their arms for the sake of the
     women, and then they could take the women with them to the
     English in the towns."

But Commandant-General Louis Botha doubted the possibility of any longer carrying this plan
into effect.

     "When the war began," he said, on May 30th, "we had plenty of
     provisions, and a commando could remain for weeks in one spot
     without the local food running out. Our families, too, were then
     well provided for. But all this is now changed. One is only too
     thankful nowadays to know that our wives are under English
     protection. This question of our woman-folk is one of our
     greatest difficulties. What are we to do with them? One man
     answers that some of the burghers should surrender themselves to
     the English, and take the women with them. But most of the women
     now amongst us are the wives of men already prisoners. And how
     can we expect those not their own kith and kin to be willing to
     give up liberty for their sakes?"

And at the earlier meeting (May 16th) he said:

     "If this meeting decides upon war, it will have to make provision
     for our wives and children, who will then be exposed to every
     kind of danger. Throughout this war the presence of the women has
     caused me anxiety and much distress. At first I managed to get
     them into the townships, but later on this became impossible,
     because the English refused to receive them. I then conceived the
     idea of getting a few of our burghers to surrender, and sending
     the women in with them. But this plan was not practicable,
     because most of the families were those of prisoners of war, and
     the men still on commando were not so closely related to these
     families as to be willing to sacrifice their freedom for them."

Equally illuminating is the testimony which General Botha bore to the efficiency of Lord Kitchener's
system of blockhouses and protected areas.

[Sidenote: The blockhouse system.]

     "A year ago," he said on May 16th, "there were no blockhouses. We
     could cross and recross the country as we wished, and harass the
     enemy at every turn. But now things wear a very different
     aspect. We can pass the blockhouses by night indeed, but never by
     day. They are likely to prove the ruin of our commandos."

And again--

     "There is a natural reason, a military reason, why [we have
     managed to hold out so long]. The fact that our commandos have
     been spread over so large a tract of country has compelled the
     British, up to the present time, to divide their forces. But
     things have changed now; we have had to abandon district after
     district, and must now operate on a far more limited territory.
     In other words, the British Army can at last concentrate its
     forces upon us."

To this may be added his admission (May 30th) of the impossibility of again attempting to raise
a revolt in the Cape Colony.

     "Commander-in-Chief de Wet ... had a large force, and the season
     of the year was auspicious for his attempt, and yet he failed.
     How then shall we succeed in winter, and with horses so weak that
     they can only go op-een-stap?"[344]

         [Footnote 344: An onomatopoeic expression for the step of a
         tired horse.]

Elsewhere the minutes of the burgher meetings afford even more direct evidence of the fact
that it was the desperate condition of the Boers, and not any desire to make friends with a
generous opponent, that led them to surrender. "To continue the war," says General Botha on
May 30th, "must result, in the end, in our extermination."... The terms of the English Government
"may not be very advantageous to us, but nevertheless they rescue us from an almost impossible
position." And Acting-President Schalk-Burger: "I have no great opinion of the document which
lies before us: to me it holds out no inducement to stop the war. If I feel compelled to treat
for peace" ... it is because "by holding out I should dig the nation's grave.... Fell a tree,
and it will sprout again; uproot it and there is an end of it. What has the nation done to
deserve extinction?" De Wet himself and the majority of the Free State representatives advocated
the continuation of the war at the Vereeniging meetings. But in the brief description of the
final meeting which he gives in his book,[345] he writes:

         [Footnote 345: The Three Years' War.]

     "There were sixty of us there, and each in turn must answer Yes
     or No. It was an ultimatum--this proposal of England. What were
     we to do? To continue the struggle meant extermination."

[Sidenote: Boer claim to independence.]

Even more significant than these admissions is the spirit in which the
question of submission is discussed. There is no recognition of the
moral obliquity of the Boer oligarchy, or of the generosity of the
British terms. Physical compulsion is the sole argument to which their
minds are open. At the very moment when the sixty representatives
agreed to accept the British terms, and thereby to acknowledge the
sovereignty of the British Crown, they passed a resolution affirming
their "well-founded" claim to "independence." History may well ask,
On what was this claim based? Judged by the ethical standard,[346] the
Boers had shown themselves utterly unworthy of the administrative
autonomy conferred upon them by Great Britain. Judged by the laws of
war,[347] they had been saved from the alternatives of physical
annihilation or abject submission by the almost quixotic generosity of
the enemy who fed and housed their non-combatant population. From a
constitutional point of view, the presence of Article IV.[348] in the
London Convention was in itself sufficient to refute the claim of the
republic to be a "sovereign international state." (Bryce, Impressions of South
         Africa, 2nd Ed., 1900). Mr. Bryce is not likely to have been
         unduly severe. "The political sin of the Transvaal against
         the Uitlander, therefore, was no mere matter of detail--of
         less or more--but was fundamental in its denial of elementary
         political right." And again: In the Transvaal "an armed
         minority holds the power, compels the majority to pay the
         taxes, denies it representation, and misgoverns it with the
         money extorted" (Captain Mahan, The Merits of the Transvaal
         Dispute, 1900 [included in The Problem of Asia]). To
         these, perhaps, I may be permitted to add the following words
         spoken by myself in 1894--more than a year before the
         Raid--and published in 1895 (South Africa: a Study,
         etc.):--"The Boer has still to justify his possession of
         these ample pastures, these rich and fertile valleys, and
         these stores of gold and of coal. If he can enlarge his mind,
         if he can reform existing abuses, if he can expand an archaic
         system of government and render it sufficiently elastic to
         meet the requirements of an enlarged population and important
         and increasing industries--well and good. If not, let the
         Boer beware; for he will place himself in conflict with the
         intelligence and the progress of South Africa. Captain Mahan writes: "In refusing
         the Transvaal that independence in foreign relations which
         would enable other states to hold it directly accountable,
         Great Britain retained, in so far, responsibility that
         foreigners should be so treated as to give no just cause for
         reclamations.... Great Britain, by retaining the ultimate
         control of foreign relations, and by her well-defined purpose
         not to permit interference in the Transvaal by a foreign
         Power, was responsible for conditions of wrong to foreign
         citizens within its borders. She had surrendered the right to
         interfere, as suzerain, with internal affairs; but she had
         not relieved herself, as by a grant of full independence and
         sovereignty she might have done, from responsibility for
         injury due to internal maladministration, any more than the
         United States was relieved of the responsibility to Italy [in
         the case of the Italian citizens lynched at New Orleans] by
         the state sovereignty of Louisiana" (Ibid.). And, says the
         same writer, a fortiori was Great Britain justified in
         interfering on behalf of her own subjects.]

[Sidenote: Effect of surrender terms.]

Obviously the quality of mercy was strained to the point of danger by the grant of terms to
such a people. It will always remain a question whether it would not have been better policy,
instead of negotiating at all, to wait for that unconditional surrender of the Boers which,
as the discussion at Vereeniging clearly shows, could only have been deferred for a very few
months. But, granting that the course actually pursued was the right one, little fault can
be found with the terms actually agreed to. No doubt they were generous, but they gave the
British Government practically a free hand to shape the settlement of the country, and left
it to them to decide at what time, and by what stages, to establish self-government in the
new colonies. The two respects in which the Vereeniging terms seemed at first sight dangerously
lenient were the undertaking to allow the Boers to possess rifles for their protection and
the recognition of the Dutch language in the law courts and public schools. Yet both of these
concessions are justified by considerations of practical convenience and sound policy. In respect
of the first it must be remembered that in certain districts of the Transvaal the population
is composed of a very small number of Europeans, almost exclusively Boers, living in isolated
homesteads, together with a native population many times as numerous and still under the immediate
authority of its tribal chiefs. The refusal to allow the Boers thus circumstanced to provide
themselves with the only weapons sufficient to protect them against occasional Kafir outrages
and depredations would have thrown a heavy responsibility upon the new administration, or involved
it in an altogether disproportionate expenditure on European and native police. At the same
time, in view of the smallness of the Boer population in such districts, the necessity for
obtaining a licence (required under the clause in question) provided the Government with an
efficient remedy against incipient disaffection. For under the licence system--a system generally
adopted as a check upon the acquisition of arms by the natives in South Africa--the number
of rifles possessed by the Boers in any particular district would be known to the Government;
while, at the same time, the power to refuse or withdraw the privilege of possessing a rifle
from any person believed to be disaffected to British rule would form an additional safeguard.

In respect of the second concession, there could be no question, of course, as to the desirability
of hastening the general adoption of English as the common language of the Europeans of both
races in South Africa. But any attempt to proscribe the Dutch language would have resulted
in creating an obstinate desire to preserve it on the part of the Boers, coupled with a sense
of injury; and would, therefore, have retarded rather than advanced the object in view. In
these circumstances the decision to rely mainly upon the natural inclination of the more enlightened
Boers to secure for their children the material advantages which a knowledge of English would
bring them, was the right one. And the policy which this clause allowed the new administration
to pursue may be described as that of a modified "free trade in language"--that is to say,
free trade up to, but not beyond, the point at which the toleration of Dutch would not impede
the convenient and efficient discharge of the ordinary business of administration. It is doubtful,
however, whether either of these concessions were justifiable except on the assumption that
full self-government would not be granted to either of the new colonies until a British or
loyalist majority was assured.

[Sidenote: Free initiative secured.]

But, whatever the ultimate result of the Terms of Vereeniging, their
immediate effect was to leave the High Commissioner with complete
freedom of initiative, but with a no less complete responsibility for
the complex and difficult task of economic and administrative
reconstruction which now awaited him. How this task--at once more
congenial and more especially his own--was discharged is a matter that
must be left for a second volume. In the meantime the conclusion of
the Surrender Agreement is no unfitting stage at which to bring the
review of the first period of Lord Milner's administration to a close.
  Administrative reconstruction, 397, 458, 489, 523 et seq.
  Africa. See South Africa.
  Afrikander Bond, The, 46;
    programme of, 50 et seq.;
    its sphere of action, 55;
    its power in Cape Colony, 55;
    its origin, 56;
    its purpose, 56 to 58, 106;
    its first congress, 59;
    its "programme of principles," 59;
    its change of policy, 60;
    members returned to it by the Cape Parliament, 60, 483;
    meets at Bloemfontein, 63;
    adopts the Hofmeyr programme, 64;
    its manner of reuniting European communities in S. Africa, 65;
    its first openly avowed aim, 66;
    falls back on the policy of 1881, 69;
    its influence in the Cape Legislature, 70, 93, 121, 122, 141;
    its attempts to obstruct the business of the Cape Parliament, 94, 95;
    the parliamentary chief and the real leader of, 97;
    Lord Milner's remonstrance to the Dutch of Cape Colony, 84, 91, 92, 98;
    the sum and substance of its policy, 106, 107, 119;
    address to Lord Milner from the Graaf Reinet branch, 108;
    Lord Milner's reply, 109 to 113;
    Sir Gordon Sprigg's defiance of, 116;
    the funds of, 118;
    its domination, 150;
    nature of its "mediation" with Pres. Krüger, 162, 169, 195, 274, 276;
    demonstrations organised by, 215;
    the completeness with which it had undermined British power, 223;
    its view of the Salisbury Cabinet, 274;
    its activity, 348;
    its attitude at the end of January, 1900, 373;
    annual congress at Somerset East, 374;
    its policy after the occupation of the Republics, 429;
    its attitude in February, 1901, 430;
    the qualities of its leaders, 435;
    its leaders decline to associate themselves with the efforts of the
      Burgher Peace Committee, 474;
    its identification with the Boer invaders, 475;
    the character of the men it sent to Parliament, 483.
  "Afrikanderdom," the doctrine of, 197.
  Afrikander nationalists, The, 48 (note), 267;
    the creed of, 48 et seq., 119;
    their plan of a united S. Africa, 70;
    Mr. Chamberlain's hope of winning their support, 73;
    strength of their forces, 74, 96, 104;
    their bitterness against Lord Milner, 80;
    uneasiness of, 113;
    dominate S. Africa, 126;
    their motives with regard to the Bloemfontein Conference, 157;
    their direct appeal to the Queen, 294;
    unmasked, 300;
    their speech and action during the war, 343;
    they co-operate with the two Republics with a view to pressing their
      "peace overtures" on the British Government, 360, 361;
    their "conciliation" meetings, 361, 382;
    renewal of their alliance with the Liberal Opposition, 369;
    their objects, 382, 383;
    their opposition to the Treason Bill, 395;
    their references to Boer successes, 396;
    they slander the British troops, 398;
    their hatred of England, 429;
    assistance rendered by them to the guerilla leaders, 478;
    their commission to Messrs. Merriman and Sauer, 495.
  "Afrikander party" The, the friends of in England, 375, 379.
  Agricultural Department, The, formation of in Orange River Colony, 525.
  Agriculture, The development of in new colonies, 536.
  "Albany" settlers, The, 15, 271.
  Albert, 346.
  Albert Times, The, 120.
  Aliens Expulsion and Immigration Laws, The, Mr. Chamberlain's demand for
      the repeal of, 81;
    repeal and amendment of, 82, 88, 94.
  Aliwal North, 346, 411, 455.
  Amershof, Mr. Justice, 103.
  Amery, Mr., 291, 300.
  Amphitheatre Meeting, The, 131.
  Anti-British Press, The, 68, 166, 205 to 207, 225, 272, 349, 374, 380,
    391, 403, 409, 477.
  Ardagh, Sir John, 319 (note).
  Arms, The surrender of, 573;
    the possession of, 581.
  Army Corps, The, the order to mobilise, 244, 317, 318;
    arrival of, 305, 321, 331.
  Arnold-Forster, H. O., 516.
  Asquith, H. H., his appreciation of Lord Milner, 77, 92, 99;
    his utterances, 416.
  Attorney-General, The (Cape), notice issued by as to acts of treason,
      480.

  Baden-Powell, Colonel, afterwards General, 191 (note), 329 (note), 397,
      530.
  Balfour, A. J., 203 (note), 228, 302, 307.
  Balfourian Parliament, The, 319 (note).
  Balliol Scholars, 76 (note).
  Bantu, The, 11, 12, 25.
  Barberton, 452.
  Barkly East, 346.
  Barkly, Sir Henry, 275.
  Bastards, The, 281.
  Basuto incident, The, 496 (note).
  Basutoland, 83;
    British authorities in, warned by Lord Milner, 298;
    construction of the railway to from Bloemfontein, 532 (note).
  Beaconsfield, Lord, 24.
  Bechuanaland Expedition, The, 350 (note).
  Bechuanaland, 83;
    the administration of the European population of, 35;
    the Transvaal's attempt to secure, 64, 74, 93;
    the Dutch community in, 346.
  Bechuanas, the employment of as indentured labourers, 117.
  Beechranger Hottentots, The, 2, 4.
  Belgrave, Lord (now Duke of Westminster), 167.
  Berry, Dr. (now Sir) Wm., 124 (note).
  Bethulie Bridge, 411, 455;
    alleged movement of British troops to, 236.
  Bezuidenhout, the Boer, 11.
  Blignaut, J. N., letter from, 258.
  Blockhouse system, The, area inclosed by, 458;
    effect produced by, 456, 457;
    efficiency of, 576;
    extension of, 455;
    its help to the railways, 533.
  Bloemfontein, Meeting of the Afrikander Bond at, 63;
    opening of the railway at, 67;
    seizure of correspondence at, 156, 162, 206, 376;
    the occupation of, 328, 363, 384;
    visit of Lord Milner to, 397;
    the effective occupation of the district round, 453;
    discussion at of the question of peace between Lords Milner and
      Kitchener, 471;
    civil administration in, 524;
    construction of the railway to Basutoland, 532 (note).
  Bloemfontein Conference, The, 268;
    proposed, 140;
    agreed to by President Krüger, 153;
    negotiations leading up to, 151 to 165;
    meeting of, 167, 168;
    the discussion at a closing of, 168, 172;
    the result of, 172;
    the four months which followed, 174.
  Bloemfontein Convention, The, 17, 87 (note);
    Sir G. Grey's criticism of, 19.
  Bloemfontein Express, The, 50, 54, 63, 67.
  Blood, Sir Bindon, 425.
  Bodley, J. E. C., statement by, 76 (note).
  Boer Administration, The, depraved character of, 212.
  Boer Army, The, 336, 337, 340 (note).
  Boer aspirations, The, 302.
  Boer children, Teaching of during the war, 519 to 523.
  Boer Peace commissioners, The, their tortuous diplomacy, 526;
    the "Terms of Surrender" communicated to them, 563;
    their departure from Pretoria, 569.
  Boer deputation in Europe, The, 555.
  Boer emigrants, The, 19.
  Boer leaders, The, their decision to continue the struggle, 414, 417,
      418, 424 et seq.;
    their disingenuousness, 557;
    penalties to which they were liable, 564;
    they treat for peace, 552, 555 et seq.
  Boer raiders, The, 438.
  Boer revolt of 1880-81, The, 31.
  Boer Republics, The (see also Orange Free State and Transvaal),
      creation of, 17, 19;
    scheme for their union with the British colonies, 24.
  Boer spies, 337.
  Boer, vernacular, The, 547.
  Boers, The, the (3rd) Duke of Portland's despatch relating to their
      treatment, 9;
    their dealings with the natives, 11;
    the grant of self-government to, 29;
    their resistance to British arms 48;
    their bitterness against Lord Milner, 80;
    their military forces, 181, 340 (note),
      without uniform, 336;
    personal dealings with, 194, 195;
    their friends in England, 232, 414, 424, 573;
    breaches of faith by, 399;
    their losses up to November, 1901, 458;
    final surrender of, 573 (note).
  Bond, The. See Afrikander Bond.
  Bond Press, The, 209.
  Booy the Hottentot, 11.
  Borckenhagen the German, 49, 50, 66.
  Botha, Louis, 564;
    dispersal of his army, 322;
    defeat of at Diamond Hill, 329;
    defeat of at Dalmanutha, 329;
    in Johannesburg, 337;
    urges his fellow-burghers to lay down their arms, 414, 424;
    his determination to fight on, 421;
    circular issued by him, 425 (note);
    his responsibility for the suffering of the Boers during the guerilla
      war, 427;
    failure of the negotiations with Lord Kitchener, 434;
    stimulates his followers, 457;
    treats for peace, 471, 552, 554;
    meets Lords Milner and Kitchener at Pretoria, 552, 556;
    letter to him from Mr. Chamberlain as to the re-opening of the
      discussion after the surrender of Vereeniging, 562;
    advocates submission, 571, 577;
    Lord Kitchener's appreciation of his tact and energy after signing the
      treaty of peace, 573 (note);
    his views on the position of the Boer women and children during the
      later stages of the war, 575;
    his testimony to the efficiency of Lord Kitchener's blockhouse system,
      576;
    his admission as to the impossibility of again raising a revolt in Cape
      Colony, 577.
  "Botha" terms, The, 471, 554.
  Bower, Sir Graham, 41.
  Brand, President, 28, 275;
    discourages the Afrikander Bond, 55;
    the rôle played by him in 1881, 153.
  Brebner J., 564.
  Breed's Nek, 455.
  British Administration, the failure of in S. Africa, 1, 22;
    distrust of by the British in S. Africa, 37;
    the Bond and, 65;
    its impotency, 69;
    efficiency of impaired by English party politics, 254.
  British and Dutch factions, The, bitterness of, 244.
  British Army, The, in Cape Colony and Natal, 189, 325;
    disadvantage in which it was placed, 253;
    its performance in S. Africa, 323;
    the number of effectives available, 323;
    its difficulties, 330 et seq.;
    the slander of, 398, 499.
  British colonists, the settlement of on the land, 538.
  British Government, representatives of at the Cape, 7;
    its treatment of the natives and Dutch in S. Africa, 8.
  British Navy, The, the offer of an annual contribution to the cost of,
      95;
    holds the seas, 311.
  British party, A, the creation of, 150.
  British policy in S. Africa, 9 et seq.;
    up to 1897, 69.
  British population in Cape Colony, The, 107, 115, 127;
    effect of the Redistribution Bill on, 125;
    their approval of Lord Milner's policy, 216;
    their dismay at the Imperial Government's reception of the seven years'
      franchise law, 222;
    their support of Lord Milner, 270;
    numbers which took part in the war, 324.
  British settlers in the country, 61.
  Britstown, 354.
  Brunt of The War, The, 462 (note).
  Bryce, James, The Rt. Hon. M.P., attitude and public utterances of, 259,
      314, 360, 415, 496;
    misstatement by, 263;
    the "settlement" advocated by him, 370;
    his view of the Transvaal Government, 579 (note).
  Buller, General Sir Redvers, 191;
    defeat of, 306;
    his responsibility for the early disasters, 318, 319;
    his misconception of the state of affairs, 319, 320;
    at Maritzburg, 321;
    forces at his disposal, 321;
    false report of surrender to the Boers, 380.
  Bundy, Thomas Dashwood, 212 (note).
  Bunu, the affair of, 89 (note).
  Burger, Schalk, 89, 101, 159, 564;
    denounced by Krüger, 100;
    attends the Bloemfontein Conference, 168;
    his determination to fight on, 421;
    his responsibility for the sufferings of the Boers in the guerilla war,
      427;
    his official notice of June 20th, 1901, 434;
    his complaint against the system of the Burgher Camps, 463 (note);
    announces to Lord Kitchener that he is prepared to treat for peace,
      552;
    granted a safe-conduct through the British lines to consult Mr. Steyn,
      552;
    meets Lords Milner and Kitchener at Pretoria, 552;
    appointed a peace commissioner, 556;
    calls upon the meeting to decide upon continuing the war or not, 570;
    his account of the origin of the war, 574;
    his reasons for treating for peace, 578.
  Burgher Camps, deportation of Boer non-combatants to, 459;
    high rate of mortality in, 460 to 463;
    Lord Kitchener's reply to the official Boer complaint against the
      camps, 463 (note);
    condition of, 503, 505, 513;
    establishment of schools in, 519 to 523;
    views of the Boers on, 575.
  Burgher meetings, The, the minutes of, 560 et seq.
  Burgher Peace Committee, The, 412, 422, 423;
    its efforts, 427, 429;
    treatment of its agents, 427 to 429;
    Bond leaders hold aloof from, 474.
  Burghersdorp, The theological seminary of, 120.
  Burns, John, 315, 496.
  Burt, Thomas, 498 (note).
  Butler, General Sir William, refuses to transmit a petition for
      protection from the British residents in the Transvaal, 131, 176;
    his sympathy with the views of Messrs. Merriman and Sauer, 174, 184;
    his views of a war, 174, 175, 179;
    his view of the Uitlander grievances, 175;
    the friction between him and Lord Milner, 175, 176;
    his view of the attitude of the British inhabitants of S. Africa, 177;
    his action during the crisis immediately preceding the outbreak of war,
      180;
    requested to furnish a scheme of defence, 180, 181;
    his scheme, 181 to 183;
    his evidence before the War Commission, 175 (note), 181 to 183;
    his failure to endorse Lord Milner's request for immediate
      reinforcements, 183, 319;
    his withdrawal from the command at the Cape, 184, 247, 269, 289;
    his only point of agreement with Lord Milner, 185;
    his estimate of the military strength of the burgher forces, 185;
    is informed of the Cabinet's decision as to reinforcements, 190.

  Caledon, Lord, one of the first measures as Governor of the Cape, 10.
  Cambridge, The Duke of, 494 (note).
  Campbell-Bannerman, Sir Henry, his public utterances on the war, 192,
      252, 256, 259, 314, 367, 368, 399, 416, 418, 574;
    his treatment of Mr. Chamberlain's proposal as to preparations for war,
      265, 266;
    his attitude in Committee of Supply, 371 (note);
    his remarks in the debate on the S. African Settlement, 393;
    his charges of inhumanity against the Government and Lord Kitchener,
      460, 464 (note);
    his reply to the charge brought against him by Sir M. Hicks-Beach, 466,
      467;
    his speech at Stirling on October 25th, 1901, 467;
    his declaration at Plymouth, 499.
  "Canadian Precedent," The, 385.
  Cape Colony, The, an incident in the settlement of the Dutch E. India Co.
      at, 2;
    isolation of at the end of the 18th century, 6;
    the task of governing, 6;
    the old European population in, 7;
    representatives of the British Government at, 7;
    the temporary British occupation of in 1795-1803, 8;
    population of at the time of the permanent British occupation, 10;
    Franco-Dutch population in, 11;
    the "Albany Settlers" in, 15;
    the emancipation of slaves in, 15;
    disintegrating influences at work in, 28;
    transfer to the British Government, 51;
    the sphere of action of the Afrikander Bond, 55;
    conflict of its commercial interests with those of the Transvaal, 64;
    speech of Cecil Rhodes on March 12th, 1898, 67;
    anti-British sentiment of the Dutch leaders in, 91;
    the political situation at the time of Lord Milner's arrival, 93;
    division of parties in, 97;
    aspirations of the Dutch in, 105;
    the leaders of Dutch opinion in, 106;
    public meetings in, 131;
    nationalists of, 142, 195;
    the vote for responsible government in, 147;
    creation of a British party in, 151;
    the garrison in, 191;
    demonstrations in of confidence in Lord Milner's statesmanship, 215;
    petition from to the Queen, 216;
    the British forces in, 243;
    the Boer aspiration to annex, 258, 259;
    organisation of the defences of, 269, 278;
    the British population of, 271;
    only in name a British colony, 273;
    alarming rumours from, 305;
    rebellion of the Dutch in, 341 to 372;
    proclamation of martial law, 345, 411;
    Lord Milner's despatch dealing with the rebellion, 346;
    disclosure of a new centre of rebellion, 354, 355;
    the second invasion of, 383, 430;
    racial relations in, 383;
    clearing it of the republican invaders, 384;
    the situation in November, 1900, 398;
    De Wet enters, 430;
    is chased out, 432;
    the area to be protected, 445;
    response of the British population to arms, 446;
    numbers of Boers in the field in, 454;
    screened off by blockhouses, 458;
    the course of events in, 473;
    collapse of the system of responsible government in, 478 to 480;
    the Government stipulates for certain conditions as to the procedure
      of military courts, 481;
    number of troops placed by the Government of in the field, 485, 486;
    treatment of rebels in, 563, 567.
  Cape Argus, The, 243 (note).
  Cape Boys, The, the ill-treatment of, 89 (note).
  Cape Civil Service, The, disaffection of, 272.
  Cape Distriks-bestuur, The, 349.
  Cape electoral system, The, 115, 116.
  Cape garrison, The, 191, 204, 278.
  Cape local forces, The, 281 (note).
  Cape Ministry, The (see also Schreiner Cabinet and Sprigg), its views
      as to its duties and powers in case of a war, 164;
    and the Bond, 193;
    attitude of, 198;
    "moral support of," 217;
    its views upon the settlement of the new colonies, 546.
  Cape nationalists, The, 167, 268.
  Cape Parliament, The, Afrikander Bond influence in, 60, 70, 393;
    Progressive majority in, 393;
    prorogation of, 478, 482.
  Cape Parliamentary Reports, 395.
  Cape Times, The, 48 (note), 220, 379 (note);
    report of J. X. Merriman's speech in, 62;
    its reported interview with Cecil Rhodes, 114;
    its views on the Redistribution Bill, 117.
  Capetown, mass meeting at, 204, 250;
    alleged plot to seize, 350.
  Carisbrook Castle, The S.S., 132 (note).
  Carnarvon, 354.
  Carnarvon, Lord, his scheme of federal union, 27.
  "Carnival of Mendacity," The, 477.
  Cartwright, Albert, 380, 381, 477.
  Cecil Rhodes, Vindex's, 68 (note).
  Century of Wrong, A, Mr. Reitz's, 356.
  Cetewayo, destruction of a British regiment by one of his impis 17;
    his organisation of the Zulus, 25.
  Chaka, 25.
  Chamberlain, Rt. Hon. Joseph, 40, 41, 45, 72;
    his inquiry of Lord Rosmead as to the Jameson raid, 42;
    his active sympathy with the Uitlanders, 47;
    his policy, 72, 73, 125;
    his choice of Lord Milner as High Commissioner, 75, 77;
    his despatch of March 6th 1897, 81;
    accusation against, 82;
    asserts Great Britain's suzerainty over the Transvaal, 126 (note);
    his intimation to the Pretoria Executive as to the dynamite contract,
      130;
    accepts the suggestion of a conference at Bloemfontein, and decides
      to postpone the publication of Lord Milner's despatch on the
      Uitlanders, 140;
    a question put by him to Mr. Philip Schreiner, 146;
    authorises Lord Milner to attend the Bloemfontein Conference, 155;
    his despatch of May 10th, 1899, 155, 194;
    agrees with the line proposed to be taken by Lord Milner at the
      Bloemfontein Conference, 157;
    his alleged determination to force a war on the Transvaal, 184;
    his declaration in the House of Commons on the failure of the
      Bloemfontein Conference, 188;
    his desire to avoid war, 196;
    the support given by him to Lord Milner, 200;
    his speech of June 26th, 1899, at Birmingham, 202, 204;
    urges delay in passing the limited Franchise Bill, 210;
    believes the crisis to be at an end, 221;
    prepared to accept Krüger's illusory Franchise Law, 222;
    statement by him in the House of Commons on the new franchise law, 227;
    proposes to the Transvaal a joint commission, 229;
    his action after the repudiation by the Pretoria Executive of the
      arrangement made between Mr. Smuts and Sir Wm. Greene, 238, 239;
    he repudiates the claim made by the S. African Republic to be a
      sovereign international state, 240;
    his despatch of September 8th, 1899, 240, 241;
    his speech at Highbury on August 27th, 249;
    his proposal to Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman as to preparations for war,
      265, 266;
    repudiates the charges of bad faith brought against Sir Wm. Greene,
      290;
    his anxiety for a peaceful settlement, 293;
    his statement at Birmingham, on May 11th, 1900, as to the number of the
      forces in S. Africa, 325;
    his statement at Birmingham of the nature of the settlement the
      Government had determined on, 367;
    sends a despatch to Lord Milner on the subjects of compensation of
      loyalists and punishment of rebels, 384;
    his reply to the views of the Schreiner Cabinet on the questions, 386;
    his views upon the disfranchisement of the rebels, 389;
    replies to the arguments of the Schreiner Ministry
      in favour of a general amnesty, 395;
    his speech containing the chief points in the proposed proclamation to
      the fighting burghers, 420;
    abandons the proposal, 421;
    sanctions the issue of Governor's warrants at the Cape, 479;
    refuses an appeal for the suspension of the Cape constitution, 479;
    assents to Lord Milner's application for leave, 488;
    importance attached by him to the views of the Cape and Natal
      Governments on the question of the settlement of the new colonies,
      489, 490;
    receives Lord Milner, 490, 491;
    report presented to him by the Land Settlement Commission, 516;
    agrees to a tax on the mining industry, 542;
    his reply to Lord Milner's telegram on the financial position, 543;
    concurs in Lord Milner's proposals for land settlement, 544;
    approves Lord Milner's suggestion as to the enlargement of the
      Legislative Councils, 545;
    declines to re-open the discussion after the signature of the
      Vereeniging surrender, 562.
  Channing, M.P., Mr., 489 (note).
  Chartered Company, The, 36, 66, 83.
  Churchill, Winston, Mr., his statement on the use of the word "natives"
    in the "Terms of Surrender," 568 (note).
  Civil Administration, the establishment of, in the new colonies, 397,
      519;
    its progress, 489, 524.
  Claremont, speech of Sir J. Rose Innes at, 361, 362.
  Cloete, Judge, his opinion of Lord Glenelg's reversal of Sir B. D'Urban's
    frontier policy, 14.
  "Closer Union," the policy of, 49, 70.
  "Coercive measures," Boer, 425.
  Colenso, 306, 321;
    a result of the defeat at, 8;
    the Free State Boers moving on, 305.
  Colesberg, 346, 348.
  Colonial Conference, The, of 1897, 95.
  Colonial Office, The, the administration of, 23;
    a leakage from, 153.
  Colonial questions, the study of, 24;
    necessity of, 254.
  Colonial rebels, The, penalties to be inflicted on, 563, 567;
    surrenders of, 573 (note).
  Colonies, The, offers of military aid from, 251, 324.
  Commando Nek, 455.
  Commissie Van Toezicht, The, 349.
  Committee of Inquiry into the Raid, The, the report of, 97.
  Concentration Camps. See Burgher Camps.
  Concessions Commission, The, 376, 377 (note).
  "Conciliation," movement, The, 343, 359, 361, 373 to 412;
    Lord Milner's record of the origin of the movement, 373;
    injurious influence of the movement on the Colony, 381;
    the Englishmen who took part in, 383;
    the initiation of, 375, 415.
  Conciliation Committee, The, in England, 415.
  Conservative Governments, 255.
  Conventions, The, Sir George Grey on, 19;
    Lord Milner on, 86, 87 (note), 358, 360.
  Cornhill Magazine, The, 263 (note).
  Coronation of King Edward VII., J. E. C. Bodley's, 76 (note).
  Courtney, Leonard (now Lord), his public utterances on the war, 232,
      251, 257 to 259, 360, 363, 496, 497;
    advocates the autonomy of the Republics, 370, 415;
    letter to him from President Krüger, 372.
  Cronje, surrenders at Paardeberg, 328.
  Cronwright-Schreiner, Mrs., 146.
  Crown Colony Government, formal initiation of, 490, 501, 544.
  Customs Union, The, 36.

  Daily Chronicle, The, a statement in as to the crisis in S. Africa,
    154.
  Dalmanutha, defeat of Louis Botha at, 329, 414.
  Davies, "Karri," Major W. D., 88.
  De Aar, 305, 354, 455.
  De Jong, Mr., 402 (note), 477.
  De Kock, Meyer, shot, 427.
  Delagoa Bay, The proposed railway line to, 29;
    its purchase recommended by Sir Bartle Frere, 29;
    appearance of a British squadron at, 82;
    consignment of ammunition to, 236;
    railway communication with Pretoria re-opened, 329.
  De la Rey, J. H., 434, 552, 556, 562 (note), 564;
    Lord Kitchener's appreciation of his tact, 573 (note).
  De Patriot, 48, 50 (note), 56, 57, 63.
  De Rand Post, 213.
  Derby, Lord, publication of his telegram of Feb. 27th, 1884, 262.
  De Transvaalse Oorlog, 54, 57 (note), 58.
  De Villiers, A. B., 382, 404, 406.
  De Villiers, Melius, 160, 232;
    advocates a cessation of hostilities, 401.
  De Villiers, Sir Henry, 28, 95 (note), 102;
    his letter of May 21st, 1899, to Pres. Steyn, 159;
    his visit to Pretoria in 1899, 159, 160;
    his complaint of the obscurity of the new franchise law, 218, 219;
    his letter to Mr. Fischer urging Pres. Krüger's acceptance of the joint
      inquiry, 232, 311;
    his appeal to Pres. Steyn not to declare war, 292.
  "Development Loan," The, 540.
  Devonshire, The Duke of, comment on Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman's attitude
    in Committee of Supply, 371 (note).
  De Wet, Christian, 420, 434, 562 (note), 564, 575;
    his blow at Sannah's Post, 363;
    his responsibility for the sufferings of the Boers during the guerilla
      war, 427, 428;
    his laager near Lindley, 427;
    enters Cape Colony, 430, 577;
    chased out of it, 432;
    his Three Years' War, 433 (note);
    the pursuit of, 471;
    his report to L. Botha on the rising in the Cape, 475;
    meets Lords Milner and Kitchener at Pretoria, 552, 556;
    signs the Vereeniging Agreement, 567 (note);
    advocates a continuance of the war, 571, 578;
    Lord Kitchener's appreciation of his tact, 573 (note).
  De Wet, Piet, protests against the treatment of the agents of the Peace
      Committee, 427;
    desires the Afrikander leaders to associate themselves with the Burgher
      Peace Committee, 474.
  De Wet, Sir Jacobus, 82.
  Diamond Hill, defeat of the Boers at, 329.
  Diamond Jubilee, The, celebration of on the Rand, 86, 90.
  Diamond Mines, The, earnings of, 23;
    Mr. Merriman's association with, 149.
  Diamonds, The discovery of, 23.
  Disarmament, The operation of, 413 to 469;
    views of the Natal Ministry on, 549.
  Dodd, Mr., arrest of, 131.
  Doornkop, The surrender of Dr. Jameson's troopers at, 68 (note).
  Dordrecht affair, The, 496 (note).
  Downing Street, The impossibility of governing S. Africa from, 1, 22,
      34, 35;
    Mr. Chamberlain and, 47.
  Doyle, Sir A. Conan, his War in South Africa, 469 (note).
  Duncan, Mr., 515, 527.
  Du Plessis, H. A., his protest against the treatment of the Boers who
    were in favour of peace, 428.
  Durban, 271.
  D'Urban, Sir Benjamin, the reversal of his frontier policy, 12 to 15.
  Durham, Lord, his report on Canada, 480.
  Dutch, The, their first conflict with the natives of S. Africa, 3.
  Dutch, The Cape, rebellion of, 341 to 372;
    the aggravation and use of their disaffection, 373;
    disarmament of, 413 to 469;
    their sympathy with the Boer raiders, 432, 433;
    their restlessness and embitterment, 443;
    their general attitude, 444.
  Dutch East India Company, The, an incident in their settlement at the
      Cape, 2;
    a century and a half of their government, 5;
    the corner stone of their policy, 5;
    their instructions to Van Riebeck, 5, 9.
  Dutch language, The, the use of, 565, 581.
  Dutch party, The, interests of, 273.
  Dutch Press, The, the nationalist propaganda of, 69, 106, 107, 119.
  Dutch Reformed Church, The, 120, 215, 410, 411, 428.
  Dutch Republic, A, The establishment of, 255, 356, 357.
  Dutch South African, The, the original stock from which they are
      descended, 5;
    their essential unity, 24;
    Lord Milner's anxiety to see their best side, 90;
    anti-British sentiment of, 91, 104;
    their moral conquest of Cape Colony, 107.
  Dutch, The republican, 17, 19, 28, 36;
    conditions under which they were incorporated into the system of
      British S. Africa, 545.
  Dutch vote, The, 150.
  Du Toit, Rev. S. J., 50 (note), 54;
    his articles in De Patriot, 56;
    rejected by the Bond, 58;
    reference to him in J. N. Blignaut's letter, 258.
  Duxbury, Mr., 212 (note).
  Dynamite Contract, The, 130.

  Ebden, Mr. Alfred, 173.
  Edgar, Tom Jackson, 130, 131 (note), 132, 175.
  Educational reconstruction, The work of, 519 to 523.
  Eerste Fabriken, 456.
  Eighty Club, The, an address to by Mr. Morley, 371 (note).
  Eliot, Mr., 306.
  Ellis, M.P., John, 498 (note).
  Emigrant Farmers, The, 15 to 17.
  England, The military unpreparedness of, 185;
    ignorance of the situation in S. Africa, 251, 253, 283, 316, 323, 331;
    hatred of, 312.
  England in Egypt, 76.
  English language, The, war against, 58.
  English State Church, The, Afrikander view of, 53.
  "Equal rights for all white men," The policy of, 1, 32.
  Esau, brutal murder of, 427 (note).

  Farelly, Mr., 126 (note), 214.
  Farmer, Canon, 259.
  "Farmers' Protection Association, The," 59, 60.
  Farrer, Lord, 498 (note).
  Faure, Pieter (now Sir), 93, 105.
  Fiddes, G. V., 167, 515;
    his report on the work of the departments of education, public works,
      and district administration, 526.
  Fischer, Abraham, 126 (note), 161, 203, 204, 210, 239 (note);
    acts as interpreter at the Bloemfontein Conference, 168;
    his advice to Krüger, 217;
    in constant communication with Mr. Schreiner, 217 (note);
    dissociates himself from the "mediation" policy of the Cape
      nationalists, 234;
    works at the completion of the military preparations of the Republics,
      234;
    revises the Boer reply to the British despatch of Sept. 8th, 1899, 242;
    recasts the ultimatum, 291;
    attempt to influence him to terminate the war, 495.
  Fischer-Hofmeyr Mission, The, 203 to 210, 236, 275, 555.
  Fish River, The, grants of land beyond, 13.
  FitzPatrick, Sir Percy, 264, 273.
  Five Lectures on the Emigration of the Dutch Farmers, 16 (note).
  Forestier-Walker, Lieut.-General, appointed to the Cape command, 184,
      247, 269;
    military measures of, 288.
  Fouché, 432.
  Fowler, Sir Henry, 416.
  Franchise for the Uitlanders, The five years', 37, 156, 157, 170, 172,
      238;
    conditions attached to the proposed new franchise, 238.
  Franchise Law, The, 209 et seq.;
    the Volksraad discussion on, 213;
    demonstrations upon, 215;
    Krüger recommends a further modification of, 217;
    the new law passed, 218;
    obscurity of its provisions, 218 to 220;
    flagrant insincerity of, 234;
    Mr. Smuts offers a simplified seven years', subsequently a five years'
      franchise in lieu of the proposed joint inquiry, 237, 238;
    conditions attached to the proposed new franchise, 238;
    the Home Government kept inactive by, 288.
  France, The attitude of, 311.
  Franco-Dutch population at the Cape, The, 11;
    secession of part of, 17.
  Fraser, Edmund, difficult position of, 175.
  Fraser, J. G., his opposition to the policy of "closer union," 49;
    beaten for the Presidential election, 70.
  Free State Dutch, The, 18.
  Frederickstad, 455.
  French, General, his advance on Colesberg, 348;
    libel on, 477;
    surrenders of rebels to, 573 (note).
  French, Mr., 306.
  Frere, (the late) Sir Bartle, 24, 25, 261;
    his diagnosis of the S. African situation, 26;
    his difference with the Beaconsfield Cabinet, 26;
    his recall, 27;
    the vindication of his statesmanship, 27;
    his knowledge of S. African conditions, 28;
    drafts a scheme of administrative reform, 28;
    his private memo, written from the Cape in 1879, 29;
    events following his recall, 34, 255;
    letter from to Sir Gordon Sprigg, 263.
  Frere, Sir Bartle, and Mr. John Morley, 261.
  Friend, The (Bloemfontein), 235.
  Froneman, Commandant, 428.

  Gatacre, General, defeat at Stormberg, 321, 348.
  German Emperor, The, telegram of, 71.
  German General Staff, The, reply to its criticism, 334.
  German Government, The, action of, 37, 232;
    attitude of, 311.
  German Marines at Delagoa Bay, 39 (note).
  Germiston, Lord Milner's speech at, 491 (note).
  Gill, Sir David, his words, 286.
  Girouard, Sir Percy, 502, 532.
  Gladstone, Rev. Stephen, 498.
  Gladstone, W. E., S. African policy of, 26, 31.
  Glencoe, British force despatched to, 291.
  Glenelg, Lord (see also Grant), Cloete's opinion of his despatch
    reversing Sir B. D'Urban's frontier policy, 14.
  Gold Industry, The, Commissions on, 529;
    resumption of, 536.
  Goodenough, General, his schemes for the defence of the British
    colonies, 180.
  Goold-Adams, Major Sir H., 470, 488, 515, 524, 526.
  Government House, watched by spies, 273.
  Governor's warrants, 478.
  Graaf Reinet, first congress of the Afrikander Bond at, 59;
    Lord Milner's speech at, 84, 91, 92, 98, 99, 107, 115, 367;
    opening of the railway at, 108;
    the people's congress at, 379, 381.
  Grahamstown, 61.
  Graham, T. Lynedoch, 116 (note).
  Grant, Charles (aft. Lord Glenelg), his reversal of Sir Benjamin
    D'Urban's frontier policy, 12 et seq.
  Greene, Sir Wm. Conyngham, 82, 127, 131 (note), 198, 210, 226 (note),
    237, 238, 241, 242, 252, 290, 295, 299, 310.
  Gregorowski, Chief Justice, 103, 259.
  Grey, Sir Edward, 416.
  Grey, Sir George, neglect of his advice by the Home Government 18;
    his exposure of the Sand River and Bloemfontein Conventions, 19;
    his despatch to Sir E. B. Lytton, 19;
    is charged with "direct disobedience," 20, 22;
    recalled and reinstated, 20;
    attitude of the Home Government towards, 21.
  Griqualand West, the discovery of diamonds in, 23;
    an invitation to the Boers to invade, 260.
  Groebler, Mr., 204, 205.
  Guerilla warfare, commencement of, 398;
    Pres. Steyn's responsibility for, 414, 415;
    methods and conditions of, 417;
    responsibility for sufferings of the Boers during, 426, 427;
    increased losses, to the country due to, 437;
    methods by which it was brought to a close, 450, 575.

  Haldane, Mr., 416.
  Handelsblad, The Amsterdam, an article in, 50.
  Harcourt, Sir William, 75, 76, 502;
    his appreciation of Lord Milner, 77, 78;
    his misstatement on the Suzerainty question, 262;
    his manifestation of hostility to the loyalist population of South
      Africa, 464 (note);
    his financial miscalculations, 502.
  Hargrove, E. T., 375 to 380, 415, 496 (note).
  Harrison, Frederic, 498 (note).
  "Harry" the Hottentot chief, 3.
  Heany, Captain, 40, 42, 43.
  Heidelberg, 456.
  Hely-Hutchinson, Sir Walter, 470;
    prorogues the Cape Parliament, 478, 479 (note).
  Herholdt, A. J., 150, 204;
    joins the Schreiner Cabinet, 124, 142;
    his mission, 205 (note), 207;
    his views as to the treatment of the rebels, 390, 393.
  Het Oosten, 477.
  Het Volk, 55 (note).
  Hertzog, General, 564, 572;
    appointed a peace commissioner, 556, 558;
    crosses the Orange River, 430.
  High Commissioner for S. Africa, The, decreasing power of, 36;
    severance of the office from the governorship of the Cape, 419, 470.
  "High Court Crisis," The, 102, 103.
  History of the War in South Africa, The Official, vol. i. 309 (note)
    et seq.
  History of the War in South Africa, The Times', 217 (note), 300 (note),
    309 (note), 340 (note), 351 (note).
  Hobhouse, Lord, 498 (note).
  Hobhouse, Miss, 462 (note).
  "Hofmeyr Compromise, The," 277.
  Hofmeyr, J. H., 55;
    the influence of, 60;
    adoption of his programme by the Bond, 64;
    his alliance with Rhodes, 65;
    dictates Lord Rosmead's policy, 70;
    his attitude towards the offer of a contribution to the cost of the
      British Navy, 95;
    the real leader of the Bond party, 97, 116, 117;
    his action to prevent the publication of Lord Milner's despatch on the
      petition of the Uitlanders, 140;
    asks Lord Milner to meet Krüger in conference, 140, 153;
    his methods for paralysing British administration, 140, 141;
    his motives, 147;
    approaches Lord Milner as to meeting Pres. Krüger at Bloemfontein, 154,
      156;
    his anxiety to prevent decisive action of the Imperial Government, 158;
    his absence from the Bloemfontein Conference, 167;
    the pressure of his "mediation," 196;
    in close communication with Abraham Fischer, 203;
    confers with Messrs. Fischer and Smuts at Bloemfontein, 205;
    goes to Pretoria, 207;
    the failure of his mission, 209;
    his relations with the republican nationalists, 216, 217;
    urges the acceptance of the proposed joint inquiry, 232, 311;
    his view of Mr. Schreiner's position as Premier of the Cape, 235;
    his opinion of the result of war, 275;
    his telegram of Sept. 14th to Pres. Steyn, 275;
    his displeasure at the Schreiner Cabinet, 346, 361;
    at a meeting of the Cape Distriks-bestuur, 349.
  Hottentots, The, 2 to 5, 9, 10.
  House of Commons, The, debate in on the S. African settlement, 393.
  Hunter, General, Sir A., Prinsloo surrenders to, 329.

  "Imperial factor, The," 40;
    the elimination of, 34, 85.
  Imperial Light Horse, The, 179, 447.
  Imperial military authorities, The, charges brought against, 459.
  Imperial military railways, The, 502, 505.
  Imperial spirit, The, 21, 24.
  Imperial troops, The, calumnies on, 398, 499;
    insufficiency of, 452, 453;
    the task of, 435, 452, 487.
  Impossible position, An, 128.
  Impressions of South Africa, By J. Bryce, extract from, 579 (note).
  Indemnity and Special Tribunals Act, The, 396.
  "Independence," the Boer claim to, 578.
  India, The feudatory princes of, 311.
  Indian Army, The, troops from for S. Africa, 243, 310.
  Indian military authorities, The, promptitude displayed by, 289.
  Industrial Commission, The, anticipation of good results from, 105;
    impartiality of, 89;
    treatment of its Report, 99 to 101.
  Industrial corporations, growth of, 36.
  Innes, Sir James, 118 (note), 125, 271, 361, 362;
    becomes Attorney-General, 390;
    notice issued by him as to treason, 480, 481.
  Intelligence Department, The, the work of, 177, 180, 190, 217 (note),
    233, 234 (notes), 257, 277 (note), 292 (note), 319 (note), 425.
  Inter-State Conference, An, proposal of, 153.
  Irish Nationalist party, The, 465.
  Irrigation, report of Sir W. Willcocks on, 516, 529.
  Isandlhwana, the military disaster of, 17, 26.

  Jameson, Dr., 38 et seq.;
    his disregard of the Reformers' message and of Rhodes's telegram, 43.
  Jameson Raid, The, 33, 37, 41;
    its effect on the Rhodes-Hofmeyr alliance, 68;
    object of, 38 to 44;
    Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into, 82;
    political forces set in motion by, 93;
    results of, 69, 71.
  Janssen, David, the murder of, 2, 3.
  Johannesburg, 439;
    Lord Milner's farewell speech at, 129, 145;
    the second Reform movement at, 132;
    enthusiastic meeting at, 198, 199, 215;
    march of Lord Roberts on, 214;
    exodus from, 246;
    situation in, 248;
    occupation of, 329;
    Lord Roberts's decision to advance on, 352;
    arrangements for the civil administration of, 397;
    effective occupation of the district round, 453;
    British population allowed to return to, 459;
    Lord Milner's reception at, 472;
    establishment of a Town Council for, 489;
    abolition of the office of Military Governor, 489;
    the public buildings at, 526;
    organisation of municipal police in, 529.
  Johannesburg insurrection, The, 41.
  Johannesburg mines, The, project of wrecking, 214.
  Johannesburg Reformers, The, 88 (note).
  Johannesburg Star, The, 145 (note), 245;
    extract from, 491 (note).
  Johannesburgers, The, splendid fighting of, 447.
  John Bull & Co., Max O'Rell's, 43 (note).
  Joint Inquiry, The, proposed, 229, 231;
    refused by the Volksraad, 237.
  Joubert, General, 101, 235, 320, 344.
  Jubilee despatch, Lord Milner's, 90 to 92, 99, 104, 107.

  Kafir, invasion of 1834-5, The, 15.
  Kafirs, British policy towards, 12 et seq.
  Kafir wars, The, 17.
  Karree Siding, 363.
  Kei River, The, the Kafir's line of, 13.
  Kekewich, Colonel, calls for arms, 304.
  Kimberley, 259, 271, 286 (note), 455;
    the diamond industry at, 23;
    plans for the defence of, 178, 278, 279;
    Lancashire Regiment sent to, 288;
    is cut off, 304, 305;
    relief of, 328;
    effective occupation of the district of, 453.
  Kimberley, The Earl of, 27.
  Kimberley Volunteers, The, 280, 282 (note).
  Kipling, Rudyard, on the attitude of the Bond 430, 434.
  Klerksdorp, 458;
    conference at, 552.
  Kock, Judge, warlike speech of at Paardekraal, 197.
  Komati Poort, the occupation of, 322, 329.
  Kotzé, Chief Justice, the dismissal of, 102, 103;
    indignation caused by, 116.
  Krause, Dr., 214.
  Kretschmar, J. Van, 377, 533 (note).
  Krogh, General, 564.
  Kroonstad entered, 329.
  Krüger, Paul, 84 to 86;
    his letter to Mr. (now Lord) Courtney on Sir Bartle Frere's recall, 27;
    his allusion to Germany at the German Club at Pretoria, 38;
    supplies arms to adherents of the nationalist cause, 71;
    invited to visit England, 72;
    calls for the appointment of the Industrial Commission, 89, 99;
    uncompromising attitude of, 89;
    denounces Schalk Burger, 100;
    elected President of the South African Republic for the fourth time,
      101;
    dismisses Chief Justice Kotzé, 102, 103;
    his determination to increase the disabilities of the Uitlanders, 103;
    signs a treaty of alliance with the Orange Free State, 104;
    his attitude in 1898, 114;
    subsidises the Bond, 118;
    claims independence for the South African Republic, 126 (note);
    consents to meet Lord Milner at Bloemfontein, 153;
    his retrogressive policy, 160;
    meets Lord Milner, 168;
    his appearance at the Conference, 171;
    his motive in attending it, 172;
    the possibility of his declaring war, 183;
    expresses his intention of introducing his franchise scheme to the
      Volksraad, 193;
    the scheme laid before the Volksraad, 194, 197;
    his incapacity to yield, 194;
    complexity of his franchise proposals, 196;
    his bid for the "moral support," of the Cape Ministry, 209;
    grants a limited franchise, 209;
    his object in doing so, 210, 211;
    wishes to retain the "moral support" of the Cape Ministry, 217;
    recommends to the Volksraad a further modification of the Franchise
      Bill, 217;
    inadequacy of his franchise law, 218;
    hastens arrangements for war, 231;
    his secret agents 233 (note);
    urged by Afrikander Members of Cape Parliament to accept the offered
      joint inquiry, 233;
    opposition to it, 234;
    strength of his military position, 244;
    his note refusing to consider the British offer of September 8th handed
      to Sir Wm. Greene, 252;
    his boast, 259;
    the illusory concessions embodied in his franchise law, 268;
    spies in his pay, 273;
    his coarse duplicity, 277;
    winning all along the line, 288;
    flees the Transvaal, 329;
    his "peace overtures," 355;
    his letter to Mr. Courtney, 372;
    his telegram to Pres. Steyn shortly before the Bond Congress at
      Somerset East was postponed, 375, 377;
    attempt to influence him to terminate the war, 495.
  Krüger, Tjaart, 212 (note), 213.
  Krügersdorp, arrival of Dr. Jameson at, 44.
  Kruitzinger, crosses the Orange River, 430, 432.

  Labouchere, Henry, 232, 233, 237, 256, 498.
  Ladies' Commission, The, 511.
  Ladysmith, British force entrained at, 291;
    Sir G. White shut up in, 320, 344;
    spies in the camp of the relieving force, 337.
  Lagden, Sir Godfrey, 515, 528.
  Laing's Nek, evacuated by the Boers, 329.
  Lancashire Regiment, The, sent to garrison Kimberley, 288.
  Land settlement, proposed loan for, 540, 543, 544.
  Land Settlement Commission, The, 516, 529.
  Langlaate Estate, The, 149.
  Lanyon, Sir Owen, 263.
  Lawson, Sir Wilfred, 498 (note).
  Leader, The Transvaal, 213 (note), 245.
  Legal Adviser's office, The, work of, 527.
  Legislative Councils of the new colonies, The, enlargement of, 544.
  Léon, M., 288.
  Leonard, J. W., 61, 93.
  Lewis, Mrs., 144.
  Leyds, Dr., 50 (note), 232, 375;
    communication opened with European Powers through, 103, 104;
    despatched to Europe as Envoy Extraordinary of the South African
      Republic, 125.
  Liberal Opposition leaders, The, attitude and public utterances of, 143,
      167, 192, 203, 252, 257, 259, 261, 264 to 266, 314, 367, 368, 371
      (note), 399, 414, 424, 430, 431, 460, 496, 502;
    their desire to escape from responsibility, 254;
    renewal of their alliance with the Afrikander nationalists, 369, 496;
    representations of the delegates of the Worcester Congress to, 496.
  Liberal Party, The, mandate to, 25;
    friends of the Boers in the ranks of, 382, 417, 573.
    See also Bryce, Burns, Campbell-Bannerman, Courtney, Labouchere,
       Lloyd-George, Morley, etc.
  Life of Gordon, The, 497 (note).
  Lifetime in South Africa, A, 16 (note).
  Limpopo River, The, 36.
  Lindley, De Wet's laager at, 427.
  Lloyd-George, Mr., 315, 496, 498.
  Loch, Lord, 36, 37;
    retirement of, 74.
  Lombard, Mr., 213.
  London Convention (1884), The, 31, 87 (note), 262;
    a violation of, 81;
    Article IV. in, 580.
  Lord Milner and South Africa, 166 (note).
  Loreburn, Lord, his attitude during the war, 496.
  Lorenzo Marques, Transvaal ammunition despatched from, 237.
  Loyalists, The compensation of, 384.
  Lucas, General, 564.
  Lytton, Sir E. B., 20, 21 (notes).

  McCallum, Sir Henry E., 470.
  Mafeking, 259;
    the rôle played by, 179 (note);
    capture of an armoured train outside, 304;
    relief of, 329.
  Mafeking Volunteers, The, 282 (note).
  Magaliesberg, The, 455.
  Magersfontein, 321;
    a result of the defeat at, 8.
  Majuba Hill, the British defeat at, 43, 186, 255;
    evacuated by the Boers, 329.
  Malan, Commandant, 432.
  Malan, Mr., 349, 410, 477.
  Manchester, meeting at, 251, 257.
  Maritzburg, 271, 321;
    public meeting at, 249, 250.
  Martial law, declaration of in additional districts, 411, 478, 482;
    its administration, 484, 485.
  Martial Law Board, The, 484, 485.
  Massingham, Mr., 154 (note).
  Merits of the Transvaal Dispute, The, Captain Mahan's, 579 (note).
  Merriman, J. X. 61, 69, 93, 97;
    report of his Grahamstown speech in the Cape Times, 62;
    his letter of March 11th, 1898, to President Steyn, 114;
    joins the Schreiner Cabinet, 124, 142;
    his motives in associating himself with the objects of the Bond, 143,
      144, 148;
    his association with the Diamond Mines at Kimberley, 149;
    his partisanship, 149;
    his desire to induce President Krüger to grant a "colourable measure
      of reform," 151, 152;
    sounds Lord Milner as to the possibility of an inter-state Conference,
      152;
    his appeal to Mr. Fischer, 161;
    his breach with Mr. Schreiner, 361;
    his offer to range himself on the side of the Republics, 376 to 378;
    repudiation of Pres. Krüger's statement as to his intimacy with Mr.
      Hargrove, 380; his views as to the treatment of the rebels, 391;
    his denunciation of the policy of the Home Government, 391, 474;
    purpose of his visit to England, 495;
    banquet in his honour, 496;
    his frankness as to his mission, 497;
    his attack on Lord Milner, 497;
    attends the meeting at the Queen's Hall, 498.
  Methuen, Lord, his engagements, 305; forces at his disposal, 321.
  Meyer, J. L., his views on the war, 574.
  Middelburg, 458.
  Middelburg Terms, The, 471, 554, 557 (note), 558, 559, 561, 562, 568
    (note).
  Military criticisms on the war, 330 et seq.
  "Military Notes," estimate in of Boer forces, 181 (note).
  Military preparations, delay in making, 242, 243, 246, 250, 279, 288,
    290, 309 to 311, 316.
  Military railways, The, 502, 532.
  Milner, Viscount, pre-eminence of his administration in South Africa, 32;
    the state of affairs he was called on to deal with, 33;
    the political situation on his arrival in South Africa, 69;
    the choice of him as High Commissioner, 75;
    his official career, 75;
    his assistance to Sir William Harcourt, 75, 76;
    banquet to him, 77;
    extract from his speech at the banquet, 78;
    affection of those associated with him, 78, 79;
    his resolution, 79, 219;
    bitterness of Afrikanders and Boers against, 80;
    his profound knowledge of the needs of South Africa, 80;
    efforts of the Liberal party to revoke the final arrangements of his
      administration, 81;
    his arrival in South Africa, 81;
    the policy of, 82;
    travels through Cape Colony, etc., 83;
    his speech at Graaf Reinet, 84, 91, 92, 98, 99, 107, 115;
    his official duties, 84;
    his position in regard to the Transvaal Government, 84, 85;
    his anxiety to arrange matters by a friendly discussion with President
      Krüger, 85, 86, 88;
    confidence shown him by the British population, 86 (note);
    his policy with regard to the Conventions, 87;
    his anxiety to see the best side of the Dutch in the Cape, 90 to 92;
    travels round Cape Colony, 104;
    conciliatory utterances of, 105;
    his reply to the address from the Graaf Reinet branch of the Afrikander
      Bond, 109 to 113;
    the position taken up by him towards the Cape Dutch, 114;
    his impartiality, 122;
    visits England, 127;
    his grasp of the situation, 127;
    urges the British Government to put an end to an impossible position,
      128;
    his farewell speech at Johannesburg, 128, 145;
    endorses the petition of the Uitlanders, 131;
    his intention to make public in England his despatch on the position of
      the Uitlanders, 139;
    asked to meet Pres. Krüger in conference, 140;
    warns Mr. Schreiner of the gravity of the situation, 140;
    postponement of the publication of his despatch, 140;
    difficulty of his position, 142;
    sounded by Mr. Schreiner and Mr. Merriman as to the possibility of an
      inter-state Conference, 152;
    his despatch of May 4th, 1899, telegraphed, 153;
    approached by Mr. Hofmeyr as to meeting Pres. Krüger at Bloemfontein,
      154;
    issue of his despatch of May 4th, 1899, 156, 169, 194;
    consults Mr. Chamberlain as to the "line" he should take at the
      Conference, 156, 157;
    his view of Pres. Krüger's acceptance of a conference, 159;
    meets Pres. Krüger at Bloemfontein, 167;
    his staff, 167;
    his reception at Bloemfontein, 168 (note);
    his embarrassing position, 169, 192;
    the compromise offered by him, 170;
    his "inflexibility," 170;
    his motive in attending the Conference, 171;
    address presented to him on his return from it to Capetown, 172, 173;
    essence of his reply to the address, 173;
    origin of his disagreement with General Butler, 175, 176;
    his desire for preparations for war, 178, 183, 186, 269, 309, 331;
    his only point of agreement with General Butler, 185;
    his reiterated warnings, 189;
    inadequate reinforcements sent in response to his appeal, 191, 192;
    acquiesces in the negotiations after Bloemfontein, 195;
    his relations with the Schreiner Cabinet, 198 to 201;
    support given him by Mr. Chamberlain, 200, 201;
    his interviews with Mr. Schreiner, 200, 201;
    assists the Fischer-Hofmeyr Mission, 207, 208;
    urges delay in passing the Franchise Bill through the Volksraad, 210;
    demonstrations of confidence in his statesmanship, 215;
    his influence with the Afrikander leaders, 216;
    his opinion of the new franchise law, 219, 220;
    points out to Mr. Chamberlain defects in the law, 221;
    prevents surrender of Home Government, 222 et seq.;
    his resolute advocacy of the Uitlanders' cause, 224;
    bitter attack on him in Punch, 225;
    his despatch protesting against the readiness of the Government to
      accept the new franchise law, 225 to 229;
    further deflection of his policy, 231;
    conveys to the Pretoria Executive the offer of a joint inquiry, 231;
    withdraws the limit placed by Sir Wm.
  Mines Department, The, reorganisation of, 528.
  Mines, The, the project of wrecking, 214;
    permitted to re-open, 489, 507;
    native labour for, 509;
    their prosperity, 518.
  Mining plant, injury to by Boer raiders, 438.
  Mining industry, Lord Milner's proposed 10 per cent, tax on, 541.
  Missionaries, The, work of, 18.
  Mitchell, Sir Lewis, 485.
  Mobile columns, The creation of, 456.
  Modder River, Station, 322, 328.
  Monypenny, Mr., attempt to arrest, 245.
  Mooi River, The, 455.
  Morgendael, J., 428.
  Morley, John, misstatement by, 261;
    his attitude and public utterances on the war, 252, 259, 263, 314,
      360, 370, 371 (note), 415.
  Müller, E. B. Iwan, letter in the possession of, 166;
    his Lord Milner and South Africa, 166 (note).
  Müller, G., 428.
  Municipal police, Organisation of, 529.

  Naauwpoort, 455.
  Namaqualand, The election for, 121.
  Natal, 51;
    a menace to, 26;
    public meetings in, 131, 215;
    petition from to the Queen, 216;
    the invasion of, 235;
    the British forces in, 243, 246, 269;
    Boer aspiration to annex, 258, 259;
    mobilisation of the local forces in, 280 (note);
    Transvaal commando sent to the border, 290;
    the British authorities in, warned by Lord Milner, 298;
    treatment of the rebels in, 563, 567, 568.
  Nationalist movement, in South Africa, The, 48 et seq.
  National Union, The, 41.
  Native Affairs, The Department of, in the Transvaal, 528.
  Natives, The, the question of arming, 281;
    the question of the franchise for, 566;
    the treatment of, 549.
  Navy Contribution Bill, The, 96;
    second reading of, 125 (note).
  Netherlands Government, The, 232;
    offer mediation, 551.
  Netherlands Railway, The, 376 to 381, 532 (note).
  New South Wales, offers a military contingent, 251.
  Nicholls incident, The, 212, 213.
  Nicholson, Colonel, 179.
  Nineteenth Century, The, 261 (note);
    article by Sir Bartle Frere in, 29 (note).
  Non-interference, the principle of, 10, 12.
  Norman, The S.S., 247.
  Norval's Pont, 521.

  Olivier, Commandant, 287 (note), 564.
  Ons Land, its pæan of triumph over the surrender of Jameson's troopers,
      68 (note);
    its reproof of Sir Pieter Faure, 105;
    its anti-British policy, 106;
    its indictment of the Sprigg Ministry, 117;
    its presentation of the objects of the Afrikander party, 119;
    its article on the Mission of Messrs. Hofmeyr and Herholdt, 205 to 207;
    meeting of the Cape Distriks-bestuur at the offices of, 348, 349;
    its New Year exhortation, 349;
    its comment on the postponement of the Bond Congress at Somerset East,
      374;
    its approval of the slanders on British troops, 403;
    its comment on Lord Milner's reply to the Worcester Congress, 409;
    libels General French, 477.
  Orange Free State, The, mineral wealth of, 54;
    relations of the Imperial Government to, 87 (note);
    its treaty of alliance with the Transvaal, 104, 125;
    irritation in against British intervention, 215;
    ammunition sent to, 216, 247, 273, 286;
    alleged movement of British troops to the border of, 236;
    the danger of a premature grant of responsible government to, 284;
    decides to declare war, 291;
    Lord Roberts enters, 328;
    annexation of, 329;
    invades south of Orange River, 344;
    the Landdrosts of, 347;
    the "Acting Chief-Commandant" of, 432;
    area enclosed by blockhouse lines, 458;
    the number of scholars on the school rolls, 523 (note).
  Orange River, The, 455.
  Orange River Colony, Lord Milner arranges for the civil administration
      of, 397;
    reappearance of the Boer commandos in the S.E. of, 441;
    numbers of Boers in the field in, 454;
    progress of civil administration in, 489, 524;
    issue of letters patent for the Crown Colony Government of, 490, 501,
      544;
    grant in aid of the revenue of, 501;
    number of scholars on the school rolls, 523, 524;
    revenue of, 528;
    farm settlers in, 536;
    the settlement of, 546;
    military administration in, 566;
    taxation of landed property in, 566.
  Oranjie Unie, The, 55 (note).
  Origin of the Anglo-Boer War Revealed, The, 49, 54 (note), 234 to
    236 (notes).

  Paardeberg, conduct of the attack on, 332;
    surrender of Cronje at, 328, 354.
  Paardekraal, great assemblage of Boers at, 197;
    speeches delivered at, 213.
  Pakeman, Mr., arrest of, 245.
  "Pass" system, The, 528.
  Paul, H., 368.
  Peace, Preparing for, 470 to 535.
  Peace commissioners, The Boer, 556.
  Peace Committee, The, 412, 422, 423;
    treatment of agents of, 427 to 429;
    its efforts, 427, 429.
  Permits, The establishment of, 482.
  Poplar Grove, 354.
  Port Elizabeth, Ammunition landed at, 216, 236.
  Portland, The (3rd) Duke of, his despatch referring to the treatment of
    the Boers, 9
  Pretoria, The British flag hoisted over the Raadzaal of, 167 (note), 329;
    war preparations at, 234, 235, 244;
    ammunition sent to, 236;
    railway communication with Delagoa Bay re-opened, 329;
    Lord Roberts's decision to advance on, 352;
    his occupation of, 369;
    Lord Milner makes arrangements for the civil administration, 397;
    Burgher Peace Committee formed at, 412, 422;
    effective occupation of the district round, 453;
    Lord Milner at, 472;
    the public buildings at, 526;
    meeting between the Boer leaders and Lords Milner and Kitchener at,
      552, 556.
  Pretoria Convention, The, 31, 87 (note). Greene with bad faith, 242;
    its declaration of September 15th, 1899, to Mr. Hofmeyr, 276;
    brings negotiations to a conclusion, 289;
    its replies to the British despatches of July 27th and May 10th, 294.
  Pretorius, Mr., 406, 421.
  Pretyman, General, 470.
  Price, Mr., 306.
  Prieska, 354.
  Prinsloo, Commandant, surrender of, 329.
  Pro-Boers, The manufacture of, 434, 443.
  Proclamation to the fighting burghers, The proposed, 420.
  "Programme of Principles," The Afrikander Bond, 59.
  Progressive Cabinet, A, formation of, 280 (note), 390.
  Progressive Party, The, 97, 98, 116, 118;
    the funds of; 118;
    their strength in the Cape Parliament, 121, 122, 393;
    led by Sir Gordon Sprigg, 125;
    their support of Lord Milner, 271;
    resolution presented to the Home Government by, 295.
  Punch, 225.

  Queen's Hall, Pro-Boer meeting in, 498.
  Queensland, offers a military contingent, 251.

  Raad, The, meeting of, 193.
  Racial fusion, The problem of, 516.
  Railway lines, The cutting of, 459.
  Railways, The, the reorganisation of, 530, 535.
  Rand, The, 36, 518;
    agitation on for reform, 131;
    recommencement of the industrial life of, 489, 507, 536.
  Rebels, The, treatment of, 384 to 391, 563, 567, 568;
    their disfranchisement, 388, 389;
    surrenders of, 573 (note).
  "Reciprocity" between the civil services of the several colonies, 550.
  Redistribution Bill, The, introduction of, 116;
    second reading of, 117, 118;
    its effect on the British population, 125.
  Reform Committee, The, 39;
    their message to Dr. Jameson, 40;
    alteration of their plans, 41, 42.
  Refugees, The return of, 489, 507, 508, 512, 533.
  Registration of electors, The, postponed, 476.
  Reichstag, The S.S., 236.
  Reinforcements, The, character of, 330.
  Reitz, F. W., 50, 144, 159, 294, 564;
    his policy of "closer union," 49;
    takes Dr. Leyds's place as State Secretary, 126;
    asserts the Sovereignty of the Transvaal, 127 (note);
    his reply to Mr. Chamberlain's communication on the dynamite contract,
      130;
    instructed to decline Mr. Chamberlain's request for delay in passing
      the Franchise Bill, 211;
    his despatch refusing the preferred joint inquiry, 237;
    communicates to the British Government Mr. Smut's new proposals for
      a five years' franchise, 238;
    his despatch repudiating the Smuts-Greene arrangement, 239;
    his appeal to "Free Staters and Brother Afrikanders," 297;
    Mr. Amery's meeting with him, 300;
    his book, A Century of Wrong, 356;
    a letter of his published by the Concessions Commission, 377 (note).
  Repatriation scheme, Lord Milner's, 543.
  Republican nationalists, The, 259, 275, 282;
    their hatred of England, 429.
  Republican United States of South Africa, The, 258, 259.
  Republics, The, military preparations of, 166, 167, 178, 234;
    expulsion of British subjects from, 246;
    manifestoes issued by upon the outbreak of war, 257;
    their treatment of British residents on the declaration of war, 292;
    fall of, 329;
    the British case against, 357 to 359.
  Reserves, Insufficient supply of, 323, 331.
  Retrocession, The, 255.
  Rhodes, Cecil, 34, 35, 83;
    his scheme of commercial federation, 38, 39;
    his comment on Dr. Jameson's Raid, 40;
    actual cause of the failure of his plan, 45;
    his methods, 46;
    his alliance with the Afrikander Bond, 46;
    his alliance with J. H. Hofmeyr, 65;
    an incident in his political career, 66;
    his speech of March 12th, 1898, 67;
    recognised by the Bond as its enemy, 68;
    his resignation, 93, 96;
    his return to political life, 97;
    the actual chief of the Progressives, 117;
    opposed at Barkly West, 118 (note);
    returned for both Barkly West and Namaqualand, 121;
    his tactics after the election following upon Sir Gordon Sprigg's
      dissolution of Parliament, 122, 123;
    his interview with Lord Milner, 124 (note); his anger at the impotence
      of England, 306;
    endorses the appeal for the suspension of the Cape constitution, 479.
  Ripon, The Marquess of, 37, 498 (note).
  Robertson, Edmund, M.P., 417, 498 (note);
    his speech at Dundee on Oct. 16th, 1901, 467, 468.
  Robinson, J. B., 149.
  Robinson, Sir John, his view of the reversal of Sir Benjamin D'Urban's
    frontier policy, 16.
  Roos Senekal, capture of documents at, 425, 426, 431;
    circular issued at, 463 (note).
  Rosebery Lord, his appreciation of Lord Milner, 77, 278;
    his support of the Government, 264, 416.
  Rosmead, 455.
  Rosmead, Lord, 36, 39;
    his action, 45;
    his response to Mr. Chamberlain's counsels, 46;
    his policy, 70;
    his attitude at Pretoria, 72;
    intimates his wish to retire, 74;
    his resistance to the attempt of the Transvaal Boers to seize
      Bechuanaland, 74;
    retires, 75;
    his promise to obtain reasonable reforms from. President Krüger,
      88 (note).
  Rosslyn Castle, The S.S., 305.
  Russia, attitude of, 311.

  St. Aldwyn, Lord, his charge against members of the Liberal Opposition
    and the Irish Nationalists, 465.
  Salisbury, The (late) Marquess of, 75;
    sympathetic speech of on the Transvaal question, 228, 229;
    his answer to the charge of "military unpreparedness," 265;
    receives "peace overtures," 355;
    his reply, 357;
    his indignant comment on the attitude of the Liberal leaders, 416;
    his charge against Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman, 466;
    receives Lord Milner, 490.
  Salisbury Cabinet, The, reluctance of to push matters to an extremity,
      176, 188;
    its disregard of Lord Wolseley's advice, 177, 188, 189, 190;
    its decision as to reinforcements, 190, 191;
    the course it decided to adopt, 196;
    its weakness, 223, 224;
    determines to make a definite announcement of its South African
      policy; 228;
    position taken up by it, 230;
    its last effort to come to a friendly understanding, 240;
    its despatch of Sept, 8th, 1899, 241, 242;
    decides to raise the strength of the Natal and Cape forces, 242,
      243, 246, 250, 279, 288;
    its reluctance to make war, 251;
    patriotism of, 266;
    Afrikander leaders' view of, 274;
    decides to mobilise an army corps, 290;
    its military action, 309, 310, 331;
    its alleged instructions to Lord Roberts, 333, 334;
    its decision as to the Conventions, 360.
  Sand River Convention, The, 17;
    Sir George Grey's exposure of, 19.
  Sannah's Post, 363.
  Sargant, E. B., his story of the educational efforts during the war,
    520 to 523.
  Sauer, Hans, 97.
  Scheepers, 432.
  Schreiner-Bond coalition, The, 98.
  Schreiner, Olive, 144.
  Schreiner, Theophilus, 144.
  Schutte, Mr., 212 (note).
  Science of Rebellion, The, 431 (note).
  Seale-Hayne, M.P., Mr., 498 (note).
  Select Committee on British South Africa, The proceedings of, extract
    from, 146.
  Settlement after the War, The, 214 (note).
  Settlement of the new colonies, The, the question of, 489, 564 et seq.
  Seventeen, The Chamber of, 3, 4, 5.
  Shaw, M.P., Thomas, 498 (note);
    his speech at Galashiels on October 14th, 1901, 467, 468.
  Sherman, General, 451 (note).
  Showers, Mr., 529.
  Silberbauer, Mr., 167.
  Simon's Bay, 57.
  Slaghter's Nek, the "rebellion" of, 11.
  Slaves, The emancipation of in Cape Colony, 15.
  Smalldeel, 397.
  Smartt, Dr., 116 (note).
  Smuts, J. C., 152, 159, 204, 212 (note), 572;
    appointed State Attorney, 126;
    attends the Bloemfontein Conference, 168;
    report in The Times of a conversation with, 214;
    is entrusted with the projected destruction of the mines, 214;
    furnishes an explanatory memorandum of the new franchise law, 218;
    offers Sir William Greene a simplified seven years' franchise in lieu
      of a joint inquiry, 237, 238;
    his attempt to disown the arrest of Mr. Pakeman, 245;
    his words at Vereeniging on May 30th, 1902, 276;
    failure of the negotiations initiated by Sir William Greene through
      him, 309, 310;
    appointed a peace commissioner, 556, 558;
    his suggestion as to a "formal clause" in the draft Vereeniging
      agreement, 561;
    his responsibility for the origin of the war, 574.
  Solomon, Saul, 147.
  Somerset East, Annual Congress at, 374.
  South Africa, failure of British administration in, 1;
    population of European descent in, 5;
    British treatment of the natives and Dutch in, 8 et seq.;
    the first effort to introduce a large British population, 15;
    public interest in, 23;
    ultimate control of British policy in, 24;
    the decision of cardinal questions dealing with its administration, 34;
    the Dutch population of, 43, 46, 49, 98, 105;
    Dutch view of the nationalist movement in, 49;
    before and after the Jameson Raid, 68;
    as Lord Milner found it, 69;
    attempts to secure the reunion of under the British flag, 69;
    the British cause in, 71;
    reinforcement of the British garrison in, 94;
    aspirations of the Dutch in, 105;
    despondency of the British population, 107;
    result of the failure of the Bloemfontein Conference on the British
      population, 172;
    moral weakness of England's position in, 186;
    approval of Lord Milner's policy by the British population, 216;
    dismay of the British population as the Imperial Governments' reported
      acceptance of the franchise law, 222;
    performance of the British Army in, 323;
    numbers of the British Army in on April 1st, 1900, 323;
    numbers of the British population in who served, 324;
    the task of subduing the entire Dutch population of, 435;
    loyalists in, 447, 448;
    the manifestation of hostility against the loyalist population of,
      464 (note).
  South Africa: A Study, etc., 579 (note).
  South African Constabulary, inauguration of, 397, 530;
    expenses of, 502;
    composition of, 531.
  South African Garrison, The, 178, 190, 309, 310.
  South African League, The, 96, 133, 212 (note), 374.
  South African Nationality, The, the creation of, 58.
  South African News, The, 225, 380;
    its abuse of Lord Milner, 272, 391, 477;
    its charge against British soldiers, 402.
  South African Republics, The attempt to bring them into a federal system
      under the British Crown, 69;
    their relations with the British Government, 81;
    their military preparations, 166, 167, 178, 181.
  South African Settlement, The, debate on in the House of Commons, 393.
  South African Unity, The goal of, 65, 66, 69.
  South African War, The Great, events which culminated in, 25, 188.
  South Central Africa, 36.
  Sprigg, Sir Gordon, 70, 280 (note);
    his Ministry, 93, 94, 96, 97, 124, 217 (note);
    his regard for British interests, 94;
    his relations with Cecil Rhodes, 94;
    the attempt to prevent him from attending the Colonial Conference of
      1897, 94, 95;
    resolves to bring forward a Redistribution Bill, 116;
    appeals to the electorate, 118;
    defeat of his Ministry, 124;
    leads the Progressives in opposition, 125;
    becomes Premier, 390;
    is at one with Lord Milner and the Home Government, 473, 485;
    his view as to the prorogation of Parliament, 482;
    his loyal co-operations with the Imperial authorities, 485;
    replies to Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, 500.
  Springs, 456.
  Standerton, 458.
  Star, The (Johannesburg), 145 (note), 245, 491 (note).
  Statham, Mr., 377 (note).
  Stead, W. T., 75, 357 (note).
  Steenekamp, Mrs. Anna E., 16 (note).
  Steyn, Marthinus, 70, 564;
    his agency in the matter of the Bloemfontein Conference, 140;
    Mr. Merriman's letter to him with reference to "a colourable measure
      of reform" in the Transvaal, 152;
    accepts the rôle of peace-maker, 153;
    asks the Cape Premier to ascertain Lord Milner's willingness to meet
      Pres. Krüger, 154, 155;
    formal acceptance of his invitation to the Bloemfontein Conference,
      156;
    his replies to Dr. Te Water's letters, 162;
    his willingness to take part in the Conference, 168;
    his evening reception on the opening day of the Conference, 171;
    inquires as to movements of British troops, 236;
    his pledge that Cape Colony should not be invaded, 279;
    his commandos, 289;
    the ultimatum submitted for his approval, 291;
    his misgivings, 291;
    receives an appeal for peace from Sir Henry de Villiers, 292;
    declares war, 295;
    his "peace overtures," 355;
    his responsibility for the guerilla war, 414, 415, 427;
    circulates utterances of the leaders of the Liberal Opposition, 468;
    consults with Schalk Burger as to peace, 552;
    meets Lords Milner and Kitchener at Pretoria, 552;
    his negotiations, 553;
    appointed a peace commissioner, 556, 564;
    his inability to sign the agreement, 567 (note).
  Stop-the-war Committee, The, 368.
  Stormberg, 321, 348, 455;
    a result of the defeat at, 8.
  Story of an African Farm, The, 144.
  Strydom, the Boer, 427 (note).
  Studenten Blad, The, of the Theological Seminary of Burghersdorp, 120.
  Sud Africaan, The, 351 (note).
  Sunnyside, 472.
  Swaziland border, The, the question of, 89 (note).
  Swaziland Convention, The, 87 (note).
  Sydney, Public meeting at, 250.
  Symons, General, 319.

  "Taal," The, preservation of, 547.
  Tembuland border, The, advance of the Boers to, 281;
    Mr. Schreiner's action with reference to, 281, 282.
  Tembus, The, 281.
  "Terms of Surrender," The, communicated to the Boer Commissioners, 563;
    the draft agreement of, 564.
  Terrorism and deceit, A system of, 425, 426.
  Te Water, Dr., 93, 94, 142, 150, 154, 235;
    resignation of, 95, 116;
    joins the Schreiner Cabinet, 124;
    his faithfulness to the Bond, 162, 163;
    advocates amnesty for the rebels, 392.
  Te Water Correspondence, The, 156, 162 to 166.
  Theron, T. P., 64;
    opposes the Redistribution Bill, 117;
    declines to meet the peace delegates, 475.
  Thomas, C. H., 49.
  Three Years War, The, 433 (note), 570 (note);
    extract from, 578.
  Times, The, 261 (note);
    report of a conversation with Mr. Smuts, 214;
    reproduces Mr. Chamberlain's conversation with its correspondent, 221,
      227;
    letter of Sir Wm. Harcourt to, 262;
    report of a speech by Mr. Morley, 371 (note);
    protest in of "an old Berliner," 468.
  Transkei, The, 486.
  Transvaal from Within, The, 131 (note), 264, 274 (note).
  Transvaal question, The, debated in both Houses of Parliament, 228.
  Treason Bill, The, 394 to 398;
    the support given to it by Mr. Schreiner and Sir R. Solomon, 474;
    the debates on, 477;
    the lenient penalties of, 480.
  Tugela, The, General Buller's attempt to force the passage, 306.

  Uitlander Council, The, 211, 215;
    its view of the new franchise law, 218;
    its disappointment with the announcement that the law is acceptable to
      the Imperial Government, 222 (note).
  Uitlanders, The, a five years' franchise advocated for, 37;
    the enfranchisement of, 38;
    their "admitted grievances," 72;
    confirmation of their complaints, 89;
    Krüger's determination to increase their disabilities, 103;
    their petition, 131;
    postponement of the publication of Lord Milner's despatch dealing with
      their grievances, 140;
    formal acceptance of, 155, 157;
    General Butler's view of their grievances, 175;
    their claim for enfranchisement, 185;
    granted a limited franchise, 209;
    their view of the measure, 211;
    petitions to the Queen for justice to, 216;
    their detailed criticism of the new franchise law, 220;
    the British Government's view of the concessions made to them, 229,
      230;
    outrageous treatment of, 244, 245;
    espionage on, 273;
    their return, 489, 507, 508, 512.
  Ultimatum, The, 246, 253 to 299;
    the day on which it expired, 279 (note);
    submitted to Pres. Steyn for his approval, 291;
    recast by Mr. Fischer, 291;
    delay in presenting, 291;
    delivered to Sir Wm. Greene, 295;
    reaches Lord Milner, 295;
    reaches the Colonial Office, 298;
    reply of Her Majesty's Government, 298;
    its effect on Lord Milner, 342;
    its effect on the British people, 344.
  Unionist leaders, The, and Lord Milner's administration, 81.
  Union Jack, The, hissed, 499.
  United States of America, The, attitude of towards Great Britain during
    the war, 264, 312, 313, 314.
  Upington Ministry, The, 60.
  Upington, Sir Thomas, 93;
    resignation of, 116 (note).

  Vaal River, The, 456.
  Valley of Light, The, 340 (note).
  Vandam, Captain, 245.
  Van Riebeck, Commander, The diary of, 2, 3;
    the Dutch E. India Co's instructions to as to the treatment of natives
      in S. Africa, 5, 9.
  Vereeniging, 555, 556;
    Mr. Smuts's words at on May 30th, 1902, 276;
    the surrender of, 303, 359, 433, 454 (note), 536 to 583;
    two and a half years after, 449;
    signing of the Terms of Surrender, 542;
    difference between Lord Milner's and Lord Kitchener's views as to the
      Terms of Surrender, 551;
    circumstances under which the negotiations originated, 551 et seq.;
    the three proposals put forward by the Boer leaders, 556;
    Article X, of the Terms of Surrender, 559;
    Mr. Smuts's suggestion as to a "formal clause," 561;
    the draft agreement telegraphed to England, 562;
    its wording, 564;
    the signature of, 567, 573;
    its terms compared with the Middelburg terms, 568 (note);
    acceptation of the British terms, 571, 572;
    generosity of the terms, 580;
    leniency of the terms, 581;
    immediate effect of the terms, 583.
  Victoria, offers a military contingent, 251.
  Victoria, Queen, presentation of the second petition to, 131, 194;
    petitions to for justice to the Uitlanders, 216;
    proposed letter to from Krüger, 376;
    death of, 481 (note).
  Vigilance Committee, The, 500.
  Viljoen, General, a telegram to, 426.
  Volksblad, The, 351 (note).
  Volksraad, The, discusses the question of accepting the joint inquiry,
      237;
    refuses it, 237.
  Vosloo, Mr., 477.
  Vossische Zeitung, The, 399 (note), 469 (note).
  Vryburg division, the return of representatives for, 121.
  Vryburg, goes over to the Boers, 280.

  Walrond, M. S. O., 167.
  Walter, M. P. C., 213 (note).
  War Commission, The, 318, 319 (note), 324 (note);
    General Sir Wm. Butler's evidence before, 175 (note), 181 to 183.
  War, Declaration of, 297;
    the first days of, 304;
    the conduct of, 316;
    area of the country over which it was waged, 326, 339;
    difficulties of carrying on, 328;
    general conclusions arising from the events, and military criticisms
      on, 330 et seq.;
    the unnecessary prolongation of, 360;
    economic consequences of, 439;
    moral effect of its recrudescence, 440;
    method of waging it, 450 to 453.
  War in South Africa, The Official History of, vol. i. p. 309 (note)
    et seq.
  War in South Africa, The, Sir Conan Doyle's, 469 (note).
  War Office, The, efficiency of, 339.
  Watson, Dr. Spence, 498 (note).
  Webb, Mr., arrest of, 131.
  Wessels, Andries, 428.
  Wessels, C. J., 260, 555.
  White, Montagu, 232.
  White, Sir George, shut up in Ladysmith, 320, 344.
  Willcocks, Sir William, his report on irrigation, 516 to 518.
  Williams, Colonel Hanbury, 167.
  Willoughby, Sir John, 44.
  Wilson, H. F. C., 515, 526.
  Wilson, M.P., H. J., 498 (note).
  Witwatersrand Gold Mines, The, 25, 31, 36.
  Witwatersrand, The, Krüger raises the Vier-kleur on, 31.
  Wodehouse, 346, 379.
  Wodehouse, Sir Philip, 275.
  Wolmarans, A. D., 168, 555.
  Wolseley, Lord, his advice to the Salisbury Cabinet, 177, 188, 190, 309,
      322, 331;
    his task, 317, 318.
  Woolls-Sampson, Col. Sir Aubrey, 88;
    forms the Imperial Light Horse, 179.
  Worcester Advertiser, The, 477;
    its charge against British soldiers, 400.
  Worcester Conference, The, 395, 403, 477;
    the resolutions of, 405, 495;
    a fatal result of, 412;
    representations of its delegates to the Liberal party, 496.
  Wybergh, Mr., 515, 528.
  Wylant, the 'Sick-Comforter,' 3.

  Zeerust, 458.
  Zuid Africaan, The, articles in, 63.
  Zulus, The, military power of, 25, 26.
  Zululand, a portion of transferred to Natal, 550.

Printed by Hazell, Watson & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury.