THE
                             CAR OF DESTINY
                                   BY
                       C. N. AND A. M. WILLIAMSON
                                  [Logo]

Illustrations by Armand Both

NEW YORK THE McCLURE COMPANY MCMVII

*OTHER BOOKS BY THE SAME AUTHORS*

      Lady Betty Across the Water,
      My Friend the Chauffeur,
      The Princess Virginia,
      etc.

               Copyright, 1907, by The McClure Company
               Copyright, 1906, by McClure, Phillips & Co.

                              [Lady Monica]

                               LADY MONICA

                                  To
                     Doña María del Pilar Harvey,
                    We Dedicate This Spanish Story

                                                C.N. and A.M. Williamson

CONTENTS

The King’s Car The Girl The Guest Who Was Not Asked “I Don’t Threaten—I Warn” A Mystery Concerning
a Chauffeur Puzzle: Find the Car The Impudence of Showing a Handkerchief Over the Border A
Stern Chase The Unexpectedness of Miss O’Donnel María del Pilar to the Rescue Under a Balcony
What Happened in the Cathedral Some Little Ideas of Dick’s How the Duke Changed A Secret of
the King’s Like a Thief in the Night The Man Who Loved Pilar A Parcel for Lieutenant O’Donnel
The Magic Word The Duchess’s Hand The Luck of the Dream-Book The Glorification of Monica The
Goodwill of Mariquita What Cordoba Lacked In the Palace of the Kings Moonlight in the Garden
Let Your Heart Speak The Garden of Flaming Lilies The Hand Under the Curtains Behind an Iron
Grating On the Road to Cadiz The Seven Men of Ecija The Race The Moon in the Wilderness Wiles
and Enchantments Dreams and an Awakening The Fountain Day After To-morrow Through the Night
The Fifth Bull; and After

                                    I

THE KING’S CAR

“Motor to Biarritz? You must be mad,” said Dick Waring.

“Why?” I asked; though I knew why as well as he. “A nice way to receive an invitation.”

“If you must know, it’s because the King of Spain will be there, visiting his English fiancée,”
Dick answered.

“I wish him happiness,” said I. “I hear he’s a fine young fellow. Why isn’t there room in Biarritz
for the King and for me?”

“The detectives won’t think there is, nor will they give you credit for your generous sentiments,”
said Dick.

“They won’t know I’m there.”

“They knew when you went to Barcelona, from Marseilles.”

This was a sore subject. It is not my fault that my father was as recklessly brave a general,
and as obstinately determined a partisan as Don Carlos ever had. If I had been born in those
days, it is possible that I should have done as my father did; but I was not born, and therefore
not responsible. Nor was it the King’s fault that we lost our estates which my ancestors owned
in the days of Charles V; nor that we lost our fortune, we Casa Trianas; nor that my father
was banished from Spain. For the King was not born, therefore he was not responsible; so why
should I blame him for anything that has happened to me?

It was perhaps ill-judged to visit my father’s land, since to him it had been a land forbidden.
But a few months after his death, when I was twenty-one, the longing to see Spain had become
an obsession. And it must have been my evil star which influenced an anarchist to throw a bomb
at a royal personage on the very day I arrived at Barcelona, thinly “disguised” under an English
name.

