  Encyclopaedias.--In their desire to bring together condensed, yet
  precise, information on a large variety of subjects, the Chinese may
  be said to have invented the encyclopaedia. Though not the earliest
  work of this kind, the T'ai P'ing Yü Lan is the first of any great
  importance. It was produced towards the close of the 10th century
  A.D., under the direct supervision of the emperor, who is said to have
  examined three sections every day for about a year, the total number
  of sections being one thousand in all, arranged under fifty-five
  headings. Another similar work, dealing with topics drawn from the
  lighter literature of China, is the T'ai P'ing Kuang Chi, which was
  issued at about the same date as the last-mentioned. Both of these,
  and especially the former, have passed through several editions. They
  help to inaugurate the great Sung dynasty, which for three centuries
  to follow effected so much in the cause of literature. Other
  encyclopaedias, differing in scope and in plan, appeared from time to
  time, but it will be necessary to concentrate attention upon two only.
  The third emperor of the Ming dynasty, known as Yung Lo, A.D.
  1403-1425, issued a commission for the production of a work on a scale
  which was colossal even for China. To achieve this, 3 commissioners, with 5 directors, 20
  sub-directors and a staff of 2141 assistants, had laboured for the
  space of five years. Its contents ran to no fewer than 22,877 separate
  sections, to which must be added an index filling 60 sections. Each
  section contained about 20 leaves, making a total of 917,480 pages for
  the whole work. Each page consisted of sixteen columns of characters
  averaging twenty-five to each column, or a total of 366,992,000
  characters, to which, in order to bring the amount into terms of
  English words, about another third would have to be added. This
  extraordinary work was never printed, as the expense would have been
  too great, although it was actually transcribed for that purpose; and
  later on, two more copies were made, one of which was finally stored
  in Peking and the other, with the original, in Nanking. Both the
  Nanking copies perished at the fall of the Ming dynasty; and a similar
  fate overtook the Peking copy, with the exception of a few odd
  volumes, at the siege of the legations in 1900. The latter was bound
  up in 11,100 volumes, covered with yellow silk, each volume being 1
  ft. 8 in. in length by 1 ft. in breadth, and averaging over ½ in. in
  thickness. This would perhaps be a fitting point to conclude any
  notice of Chinese encyclopaedias, but for the fact that the work of
  Yung Lo is gone while another encyclopaedia, also on a huge scale,
  designed and carried out sonic centuries later, is still an important
  work of reference.

    T'u Shu.

  The T'u Shu Chi Ch'êng was planned, and to a great extent made
  ready, under instructions from the emperor K'ang Hsi (see above), and
  was finally brought out by his successor, Yung Chêng, 1723-1736.
  Intended to embrace all departments of knowledge, its contents were
  distributed over six leading categories, which for want of better
  equivalents may be roughly rendered by (l) Heaven, (2) Earth, (3) Man,
  (4) Arts and Sciences, (5) Philosophy and (6) Political Science. These
  were subdivided into thirty-two classes; and in the voluminous index
  which accompanies the work a further attempt was made to bring the
  searcher into still closer touch with the individual items treated.
  Thus, the category Heaven is subdivided into four classes,
  namely--again, for want of better terms--(a) The Sky and its
  Manifestations, (b) The Seasons, (c) Astronomy and Mathematics and
  (d) Natural Phenomena. Under these classes come the individual
  items; and here it is that the foreign student is often at a loss. For
  instance, class a includes Earth, in its cosmogonic sense, as the
  mother of mankind; Heaven, in its original sense of God; the Dual
  Principle in nature; the Sun, Moon and Stars; Wind; Clouds; Rainbow;
  Thunder and Lightning; Rain; Fire, &c. But Earth is itself a
  geographical category; and all strange phenomena relating to many of
  the items under class a are recorded under class d. Category No.
  6, marked as Political Science, contains such classes as Ceremonial,
  Music and Administration of Justice, alongside of Handicrafts, making
  it essential to study the arrangement carefully before it is possible
  to consult the work with ease. Such preliminary trouble is, however,
  well repaid, the amount of information given on any particular subject
  being practically coextensive with what is known about that subject.
  The method of presenting such information, with variations to suit the
  nature of the topics handled, is to begin with historical excerpts,
  chronologically arranged. These are usually followed by sometimes
  lengthy essays dealing with the subject as a theme, taken from the
  writings of qualified authors, and like all the other entries, also
  chronologically arranged. Then come elegant extracts in prose and
  verse, in all of which the subject may be simply mentioned and not
  treated as in the essays. After these follow minor notices of
  incidents, historical and otherwise, and all kinds of anecdotes,
  derived from a great variety of sources. Occasionally, single poetical
  lines are brought together, each contributing, some thought or
  statement germane to the subject, expressed in elegant or forcible
  terms; and also, wherever practicable, biographies of men and women
  are inserted.

  Chronological and other tables are supplied where necessary, as well
  as a very large number of illustrations, many of these being
  reproductions of woodcuts from earlier works. It is said that the T'u
  Shu Chi Ch'êng was printed from movable copper type cast by the
  Jesuit Fathers employed by the emperor K'ang Hsi at Peking; also that
  only a hundred copies were struck off, the type being then destroyed.
  An 8vo edition of the whole encyclopaedia was issued at Shanghai in
  1889; this is bound up in sixteen hundred and twenty-eight handy
  volumes of about two hundred pages each. A copy of the original
  edition stands on the shelves of the British Museum, and a translation
  of the Index has recently been completed.

Manuscripts and Printing.--At the conclusion of this brief survey of Chinese literature it
may well be asked how such an enormous and ever-increasing mass has been handed down from generation
to generation. According to the views put forth by early Chinese antiquarians, the first written
records were engraved with a special knife upon bamboo slips and wooden tablets. The impracticability
of such a process, as applied to books, never seems to have dawned upon those writers; and
this snowball of error, started in the 7th century, long after the knife and the tablet had
disappeared as implements of writing, continued to gather strength as time went on. Recent
researches, however, have placed it beyond doubt that when the Chinese began to write in a
literary sense, as opposed to mere scratchings on bones, they traced their characters on slips
of bamboo and tablets of wood with a bamboo pencil, frayed at one end to carry the coloured
liquid which stood in the place of ink. The knife was used only to erase. So things went on
until about 200 B.C., when it would appear that a brush of hair was substituted for the bamboo
pencil; after which, silk was called into requisition as an appropriate vehicle in connexion
with the more delicate brush. But silk was expensive and difficult to handle, so that the invention
of paper in A.D. 105 by a eunuch, named Ts'ai Lun, came as a great boon, although it seems
clear that a certain kind of paper, made from silk floss, was in use before his date. However
that may be, from the 1st century onwards the Chinese have been in possession of the same writing
materials that are in use at the present day.

In A.D. 170, Ts'ai Yung, who rose subsequently to the highest offices of state, wrote out on
stone in red ink the authorized text of the Five Classics, to be engraved by workmen, and thus
handed down to posterity. The work covered forty-six huge tablets, of which a few fragments
are said to be still in existence. A similar undertaking was carried out in 837, and the later
tablets are still standing at a temple in the city of Hsi-an Fu, Shensi. With the T'ang dynasty,
rubbings of famous inscriptions, wherein the germ of printing may be detected, whether for
the style of the composition or for the calligraphic excellence of the script, came very much
into vogue with scholars and collectors. It is also from about the same date that the idea
of multiplying on paper impressions taken from wooden blocks seems to have arisen, chiefly
in connexion with religious pictures and prayers. The process was not widely applied to the
production of books until the 10th century, when in A.D. 932 the Confucian Canon was printed
for the first time. In 981 orders were issued for the T'ai P'ing Kuang Chi, an encyclopaedia
extending to many volumes (see above) to be cut on blocks for printing. Movable types of baked
clay are said to have been invented by an alchemist, named Pi Shêng, about A.D. 1043; and under
the Ming dynasty, 1368-1644, these were made first of wood, and later of copper or lead, but
movable types have never gained the favour accorded to block-printing, by means of which most
of China's great typographical triumphs have been achieved. The process is, and always has
been, the same all over China. Two consecutive pages of a book, separated by a column containing
the title, number of section, and number of leaf, are written out and pasted face downwards
on a block of wood (Lindera tz[)u]-mu, Hemsl.). This paper, where not written upon, is cut
away with sharp tools, leaving the characters in relief, and of course backwards, as in the
case of European type. The block is then inked, and an impression is taken off, on one side
of the paper only. This sheet is then folded down the middle of the separating column above
mentioned, so that the blank halves come together, leaving two pages of printed matter outside;
and when enough sheets have been brought together, they are stabbed at the open ends and form
a volume, to be further wrapped in paper or pasteboard, and labelled with title, &c. It is
almost superfluous to say that the pages of a Chinese book must not be cut. There is nothing
inside, and, moreover, the column bearing the title and leaf-number would be cut through. The
Chinese newspapers of modern times are all printed from movable types, an ordinary fount consisting
of about six to seven thousand characters.

  See J. Legge, The Chinese Classics (1861-1872); A. Wylie, Notes on
  Chinese Literature (1867); E. Chavannes, Mémoires historiques
  (1895-1905); H.A. Giles, Chuang Tz[)u] (1889), A Chinese
  Biographical Dictionary (1898), and A History of Chinese Literature
  (1901); A. Forke, Lun-Hêng (1907); F. Hirth, The Ancient History of
  China (1908); L. Giles, Sun Tz[)u] (1910).    (H. A. GI.)

FOOTNOTES:

  [1] As to the origin of the names China and Cathay (the medieval
    name) see below § History. According to one theory the name China
    is of Malay origin, designating originally the region now called
    Indo-China, but transferred in early times to China proper. By the
    Chinese the country is often called Shih-pa-shêng, "the Eighteen
    Provinces," from the number of its great territorial divisions. It
    is also called Chung-kwo, "the Middle Kingdom," properly used of
    the central part of China, and Hwa-kwo, "the Flowery Kingdom."

  [2] A Chinese mile, li, or le = 0.36 English mile.

  [2] For the Grand Canal the chief authority is Dominique Gandar, S.J.,
    "Le Canal Impérial. Étude historique et descriptive," Variétés
    sinologiques No. 4 (Shanghai, 1903); see also Stenz, "Der
    Kaiserkanal," in Beiträgen zur Kolonialpolitik, Band v. (Berlin,
    1903-1904), and the works of Ney Elias, Sir J.F. Davis, A.
    Williamson, E.H. Parker and W.R. Carles.

  [4] Nevertheless there is considerable local traffic. The transit
    trade with Shan-tung, passing the Chin-kiang customs and using some
    250 m. of the worst part of the canal, was valued in 1905 at
    3,331,000 taels.

  [5] The portion of the wall which abutted on to the sea has been
    destroyed.

  [6] See the Geog. Jnl. (Feb. and March 1907). For a popular
    account of the wall, with numerous photographs, see The Great Wall
    of China (London, 1909), by W.E. Giel, who in 1908 followed its
    course from east to west. Consult also A. Williamson, Journey in
    North China (London, 1870); Martin, "La Grande Muraille de la
    Chine," Revue scientifique (1891).

  [7] For Shanghai the figures are compiled from twenty-six years'
    observations. See China Sea Directory, vol. iii. (4th ed., 1904)
    p. 660.

  [8] The thermometer registered 23° F. in January 1893, on the river
    28 m. below Canton. This is the lowest reading known. Ibid, pp.
    104-105.

  [9] See W.W. Rockhill, Inquiry into the Population of China
    (Washington, 1904).

  [10] For a bibliography of works relating to the aboriginal races of
    China see Richard's Comprehensive Geography of the Chinese Empire
    (1908 ed.), pp. 371-373.

  [11] Evidences of the social changes taking place in China are to be
    found in the strong movement for the education of girls, and in the
    formation of societies, under official patronage, to prevent the
    binding of women's feet.

  [12] It must be remembered that there is great variety in the
    costumes worn in the various provinces. The particulars here given
    are of the most general styles of dress.

  [13] Richard's Comprehensive Geography, &c. (1908 edition), pp.
    340-341.

  [14] Otherwise Ab[=u] Ja'far Ibn Mahommed al-Mans[=u]r (see CALIPHATE,
    C. § 2).

  [15] For a summary of Chang Chih-tung's treatise, see Changing
    China (1910 edition), chap. xxii.

  [16] It was announced in June 1910 that the throne had approved a
    recommendation of the Board of Education that English should be the
    official language for scientific and technical education, and that
    the study of English should be compulsory in all provincial
    scientific and technical schools.

  [17] See The Times of the 19th of February and the 3rd of May 1910.

  [18] Another peculiarity of loess in China is that it lends itself
    readily to the excavation of dwellings for the people. In many
    places whole villages live in cave dwellings dug out in the vertical
    wall of loess. They construct spiral staircases, selecting places
    where the ground is firm, and excavate endless chambers and recesses
    which are said to be very comfortable and salubrious.

  [19] See J. Edkins, The Poppy in China, and H.B. Morse, The Trade
    and Administration of the Chinese Empire, chap. xi.

  [20] Richard's Comprehensive Geography, &c. (1908 edition), p. 144.

  [21] In the 18th century foreign trade was restricted to Canton. In
    the 17th century, however, the Dutch traded to Formosa and Amoy, and
    the English to Amoy also. The Portuguese traded with Canton as early
    as 1517. For the early intercourse between Portugal and China see
    the introductory chapter in Donald Ferguson's Letters from
    Portuguese Captives in Canton (Bombay, 1902).

  [22] From The Statesman's Year Book, 1910 edition.

  [23] See The Times of the 28th of March 1910.

  [24] See Morse, op. cit. chap. x.

  [25] The maritime customs had established a postal service for its
    own convenience in 1861, and it first gave facilities to the general
    public in 1876. An organized service for the conveyance of
    government despatches has existed in China for many centuries, and
    the commercial classes maintain at their own expense a system
    ("letter hongs") for the transmission of correspondence.

  [26] For the causes leading to this movement and the progress of
    reform see § History.

  [27] For recent authoritative accounts of the government of China
    see H.B. Morse, The Trade and Administration of the Chinese
    Empire, chap. iii.; Richard's Comprehensive Geography, &c., Bk.
    I. § v., and The Statesman's Year Book.

  [28] The empress-consort is chosen by the emperor from a number of
    girls selected by his ministers from the families of Manchu nobles.
    From the same candidates the emperor also selects
    secondary-empresses (usually not more than four). Concubines, not
    limited in number, are chosen from the daughters of Manchu nobles
    and free-men. All the children are equally legitimate.

  [29] Recent emperors have been children at accession and have been
    kept in seclusion.

  [30] See "Democratic China" in H.A. Giles, China and the Chinese.

  [31] W.F. Mayers, The Chinese Government (1878).

  [32] This body is superseded by the Imperial Senate summoned to meet
    for the first time on the 3rd of October 1910.

  [33] Yamên is the name given to the residences of all high
    officials. Tsung-li Yamên = the bureau for managing each (foreign)
    kingdom's affairs. Up to that time the navy was controlled by the
    viceroys at Canton, Nanking, Fu-chow and Tientsin; the viceroys at
    Canton and Tientsin being ministers superintendent of the southern
    and northern ports respectively.

  [35] Thus in 1910 Prince Ching, president of the grand council, was,
    for the third time, impeached by censors, being denounced as an "old
    treacherous minister," who filled the public service with a crowd of
    men as unworthy as himself. The censor who made the charge was
    stripped of his office (see The Times of the 30th of March 1910).

  [36] For details of local government see Richard's Comprehensive
    Geography, 1908 edition, pp. 301 et seq.

  [37] Morse, op. cit., 1908 edition, p. 76

  [38] See The Times of the 28th of February 1910.

  [39] See The Statesman's Year-Book (1910 edition).

  [40] A few of the old native customs stations, which are deemed
    perquisites of the imperial court, may also be excepted, as, for
    instance, the native custom-house at Canton, Hwei Kwan on the Grand
    Canal, and various stations in the neighbourhood of Peking.

  [41] The production of a budget in 1915 was promised in one of the
    reform edicts of 1908.

  [42] In this article the tael used as a standard is the Haikwan (i.e.
    customs) tael, worth about 3s. It fluctuates with the value of
    silver.

  [43] Roughly £43,000,000.

  [44] Trade and Administration of the Chinese Empire (1910), p. 118.

  [45] Temporary reductions are granted in provinces affected by
    rebellion, drought or flood.

  [46] Information as to what extent the expenses of the new army and
    navy are met by the central government is lacking.

  [47] To meet the expenditure on interest and redemption of the
    indemnities for the Boxer outrages the Peking government required
    the provincial authorities to increase their annual remittances by
    taels 18,700,000 during the years 1902-1910.

  [48] It must be remembered that the Haikwan tael is here indicated.

  [49] See Morse's Trade and Administration of the Chinese Empire,
    chap. ix.

  [50] A supplementary exchange of notes of the same date excepted
    from the scope of this agreement the Shan-hai-kwan-Niu-chwang
    extension which had already been conceded to the Hongkong & Shanghai
    Bank.

  [51] The religious aspect of the Boxer movement gave it strength.
    Its disciples believed that the spirits which defended China were
    incensed by the introduction of Western methods and ideals. Many of
    them believed themselves to be invulnerable to any Western weapon.
    (See Lord W. Cecil, Changing China, 1910, ch. i.)

  [52] The diary of a Manchu noble printed in China under the Empress
    Dowager (1910) by J.O. Bland and E. Backhouse throws light on the
    subject. It was to Jung-Lu, father-in-law of Prince Chin, that the
    legations owed their escape from extermination.

  [53] It was at this time (July 17th) that the intense anxiety of the
    civilized world with regard to the fate of the besieged reached its
    culminating point. Circumstantial accounts of the fall of the
    legations and the massacre of their inmates were circulated in
    Shanghai and found general credence. It was not till near the end of
    the month that an authentic message from the American minister
    proved these fears to be premature.

  [54] In negotiating this agreement Lord Salisbury appears to have
    been largely influenced by the aggressive features of Russia's
    action in North China, while Germany appears to have been actuated
    by a desire to forestall isolated action by Great Britain in the
    Yangtsze basin. In Germany the agreement was known as the Yangtsze
    Agreement. Great Britain held, however, that it applied equally to
    Manchuria.

  [55] Liu Kun-yi died in 1902. In the same year died Tao-mu, the
    viceroy of Canton. In these men China lost two of her most capable
    and enlightened officials.

  [56] Prince Chun was born in 1882. He was the first member of the
    imperial family to be sent on a foreign mission.

  [57] Tung Fu-hsiang died in 1908. A sum of some £80,000 belonging to
    him, and left in the provincial treasury, was appropriated for works
    of public utility (see The Times, April 9th, 1910).

  [58] Lord W. Cecil, op. cit. p. 9.

  [59] This institution was nominally a private concern which financed
    the Manchurian railway, but it acted as part of the Russian
    government machinery. The existence of the contract of the 27th of
    August 1896 was frequently denied until expressly admitted by the
    Russo-Chinese agreement of the 8th of April 1902.

  [60] On the 8th of October the Russian troops had been withdrawn
    from Mukden, but they reoccupied the town on the 28th of the same
    month, Admiral Alexeiev, the viceroy of the Far East, alleging that
    the inertia of the Chinese officials seriously hindered the work of
    extending civilization in Manchuria.

  [61] The form of outrage, probably the first of its kind in China,
    was itself a symptom of the changed times. The bomb injured Prince
    Tsai Tse and another commissioner, and the departure of the
    commission was consequently delayed some months.

  [62] In 1907 further commissions were appointed, on the initiative
    of Yuan Shih-kai, to study specifically the constitutions of Great
    Britain, Germany and Japan.

  [63] This department was organized at Shanghai in 1854. The Taiping
    rebels being in possession of the native city, the collection of
    customs dues, especially on foreign ships, was placed in the hands
    of foreigners. This developed into a permanent institution, the
    European staff being mainly British.

  [64] The British official view, as stated in parliament on the 27th
    of April 1910, was that the changes resulting from the creation of
    the Board of Control had, so far, been purely departmental changes
    of form, and that the position of the inspector-general remained
    unaltered.

  [65] See The Times of the 21st of April and 11th of May 1910.

  [66] A chest contained from 135 lb to 160 lb.

  [67] A picul = 133-1/2 lb.

  [68] Changing China, p. 118.

  [69] See The Times of 7th and 8th of March and 8th of April 1910.

  [70] The first recorded importation of morphia into China was in
    1892, and it is suggested that it was first used as an anti-opium
    medicine. Morphia-taking, however, speedily became a vice, and in
    1902 over 195,000 oz. of morphia were imported (enough for some
    300,000,000 injections). To check the evil the Chinese government
    during 1903 imposed a tax of about 200% ad valorem, with the
    result that the imports declared to the customs fell in 1905 to 54
    oz. only. The falling off was explained "not by a diminished demand,
    but by smuggling" (Morse's Trade and Administration of the Chinese
    Empire, p. 351).

  [71] A regulation by the ministry of education, dated the 14th of
    January 1910, ordered that no girl should be admitted to school
    dressed in foreign clothes or with unnatural (i.e. bound) feet.

  [72] For the growth of the education movement see The Times, 4th
    of September 1909.

  [73] The Dalai Lama left Peking in December 1908 on his return to
    Lhassa, which he reached in November 1909. Differences had arisen
    between him and the Chinese government, which sought to make the
    spiritual as well as the temporal power of the Dalai Lama dependent
    on his recognition by the emperor of China. Early in 1910 the Dalai
    Lama, in consequence of the action of the Chinese amban in Lhassa,
    fled from that city and sought refuge in India.

  [74] Chang Chih-tung died in October 1909. He was a man of considerable
    ability, and one whose honesty and loyalty had never been doubted. He
    was noted as an opponent of opium smoking, and for over thirty years
    had addressed memorials to the throne against the use of the drug.

  [75] See The Times of the 7th of September 1909.

  [76] Proposals made early in 1910 by the American secretary of state
    for the neutralization of the Manchurian railway received no
    support.

  [77] By a convention signed on July 4th, 1910, Russia and Japan agreed
    to "maintain and respect" the status quo in Manchuria.

  [78] See the Quinzaine coloniale of the 10th of December 1909.

  [79] See The Times of the 20th of January 1910.

  [80] See for the prospects of reform The Times of 30th May 1910.

  [81] La Sculpture sur pierre en Chine ait temps des deux dynasties
    Han (Paris, 1893).

CHINA, the common name for ware made of porcelain, given because it came from China, where
the first vitrified, translucent, white ware was produced. The Portuguese or Italians gave
it the name of "porcelain" (q.v.). English usage was influenced by India and the East, where
the Persian ch[=i]n[=i] was widely prevalent as the name of the ware. This is seen also in
some of the earlier forms and pronunciations, e.g. chiney, cheney, and later chaney (see CERAMICS;
and for "china-clay" KAOLIN).

CHINANDEGA, or CHINENDEGA, the capital of the department of Chinandega in western Nicaragua,
10 m. N.N.E. of the seaport of Corinto by the Corinto-Managua railway. Pop. (1900) about 12,000.
Chinandega is the centre of a fertile corn-producing district, and has a large transit trade
owing to its excellent situation on the chief Nicaraguan railway. Its manufactures include
coarse cloth, pottery and Indian feather ornaments. Cotton, sugar-cane and bananas are cultivated
in the neighbourhood.

CHI-NAN FU, the capital of Shan-tung, China, in 36° 40' N., 117° 1' E. Pop. about 100,000.
It is situated in one of the earliest settled districts of the Chinese empire. The city, which
lies in the valley of the present channel of the Yellow river (Hwang-Ho), and about 4 m. south
of the river, is surrounded by a triple line of defence. First is the city wall, strongly built
and carefully guarded, outside this a granite wall, and beyond this again a mud rampart. Three
springs outside the west gate throw up streams of tepid water to a height of about 2 ft. This
water, which is highly prized for its healing qualities, fills the moat and forms a fine lake
in the northern quarter of the city.

Chi-nan Fu was formerly famous for its manufacture of silks and of imitation precious stones.
It is now the chief commercial entrepôt of Western Shan-tung but no longer a manufacturing
centre. A highway connects it with the Yellow river, and it is joined by a railway 280 m. long
to Kiaochow. The city has a university for instruction on Western lines, and an efficient military
school. American Presbyterians began mission work in the city in 1873; it is also the see of
a Roman Catholic bishop.

CHINCHA ISLANDS, three small islands in the Pacific Ocean, about 12 m. from the coast of Peru
(to which country they belong), opposite the town of Pisco, and 106 m. distant from Callao,
in 13° 38' S., 76° 28' W. The largest of the group, known as the North Island or Isla del Norte,
is only four-fifths of a mile in length, and about a third in breadth. They are of granitic
formation, and rise from the sea in precipitous cliffs, worn into countless caves and hollows,
which furnish convenient resting-places for the sea-fowl. Their highest points attain an elevation
of 113 ft. The islands have yielded a few remains of the Chincha Indian race. They were formerly
noted for vast deposits of guano, and its export was begun by the Peruvian government in 1840.
The supply, however, was exhausted in 1874. In 1853-1854 the Chincha Islands were the chief
object in a contest known as the Guano War between President Echenique and General Castilla;
and in April 1864 they were seized by the Spanish rear-admiral Pinzon in order to bring the
Peruvian government to apologize for its treatment of Spanish immigrants.

CHINCHEW, or CHINCHU, the name usually given in English charts to an ancient and famous port
of China in the province of Fu-kien, of which the Chinese name is Ch'üanchow-fu or Ts'üanchow-fu.
It stands in 24° 57' N., 118° 35' E. The walls have a circuit of 7 or 8 m., but embrace much
vacant ground. Beyond the northern branch of the Min (several miles from the city) there is
a suburb called Loyang, approached by the most celebrated bridge in China.

Ch'üanchow, owing to the obstruction of its harbour by sand banks, has been supplanted as a
port by Amoy, and its trade is carried on through the port of Nganhai. It is still, however,
a large and populous city. It was in the middle ages the great port of Western trade with China,
and was known to the Arabs and to Europeans as Zait[=u]n or Zayton, the name under which it
appears in Abulfeda's geography and in the Mongol history of Rash[=i]ddud[=i]n, as well as
in Ibn Batuta, Marco Polo and other medieval travellers. Some argument has been alleged against
the identity of Zayton with Ch'üanchow, and in favour of its being rather Changchow (a great
city 60 m. W.S.W. of Ch'üanchow), or a port on the river of Changchow near Amoy. "Port of Zayton"
may have embraced the great basin called Amoy Harbour, the chief part of which lies within
the Fu or department of Ch'üanchow; but there is hardly room for doubt that the Zayton of Marco
Polo and Abulfeda was the Ch'üanchow of the Chinese. Ibn Batuta informs us that a rich silk
texture made here was called Zait[=u]niya; and there can be little doubt that this is the real
origin of the word "Satin," Zettani in medieval Italian, Aceytuni in Spanish.

