A Circumstance that will coerce one man will have no effect upon a man of a different temperament.
If Circumstance had thrown the bank-note in Caesar's way, his temperament would not have made
him start for the Amazon. His temperament would have compelled him to do something with the
money, but not that. It might have made him advertise the note--and WAIT. We can't tell. Also,
it might have made him go to New York and buy into the Government, with results that would
leave Tweed nothing to learn when it came his turn.

Very well, Circumstance furnished the capital, and my temperament told me what to do with it.
Sometimes a temperament is an ass. When that is the case of the owner of it is an ass, too,
and is going to remain one. Training, experience, association, can temporarily so polish him,
improve him, exalt him that people will think he is a mule, but they will be mistaken. Artificially
he IS a mule, for the time being, but at bottom he is an ass yet, and will remain one.

By temperament I was the kind of person that DOES things. Does them, and reflects afterward.
So I started for the Amazon without reflecting and without asking any questions. That was more
than fifty years ago. In all that time my temperament has not changed, by even a shade. I have
been punished many and many a time, and bitterly, for doing things and reflecting afterward,
but these tortures have been of no value to me; I still do the thing commanded by Circumstance
and Temperament, and reflect afterward. Always violently. When I am reflecting, on these occasions,
even deaf persons can hear me think.

I went by the way of Cincinnati, and down the Ohio and Mississippi. My idea was to take ship,
at New Orleans, for Para. In New Orleans I inquired, and found there was no ship leaving for
Para. Also, that there never had BEEN one leaving for Para. I reflected. A policeman came and
asked me what I was doing, and I told him. He made me move on, and said if he caught me reflecting
in the public street again he would run me in.

After a few days I was out of money. Then Circumstance arrived, with another turning-point
of my life--a new link. On my way down, I had made the acquaintance of a pilot. I begged him
to teach me the river, and he consented. I became a pilot.

By and by Circumstance came again--introducing the Civil War, this time, in order to push me
ahead another stage or two toward the literary profession. The boats stopped running, my livelihood
was gone.

Circumstance came to the rescue with a new turning-point and a fresh link. My brother was appointed
secretary to the new Territory of Nevada, and he invited me to go with him and help him in
his office. I accepted.

In Nevada, Circumstance furnished me the silver fever and I went into the mines to make a fortune,
as I supposed; but that was not the idea. The idea was to advance me another step toward literature.
For amusement I scribbled things for the Virginia City ENTERPRISE. One isn't a printer ten
years without setting up acres of good and bad literature, and learning--unconsciously at first,
consciously later--to discriminate between the two, within his mental limitations; and meantime
he is unconsciously acquiring what is called a "style." One of my efforts attracted attention,
and the ENTERPRISE sent for me and put me on its staff.

And so I became a journalist--another link. By and by Circumstance and the Sacramento UNION
sent me to the Sandwich Islands for five or six months, to write up sugar. I did it; and threw
in a good deal of extraneous matter that hadn't anything to do with sugar. But it was this
extraneous matter that helped me to another link.

It made me notorious, and San Francisco invited me to lecture. Which I did. And profitably.
I had long had a desire to travel and see the world, and now Circumstance had most kindly and
unexpectedly hurled me upon the platform and furnished me the means. So I joined the "Quaker
City Excursion."

When I returned to America, Circumstance was waiting on the pier--with the LAST link--the conspicuous,
the consummating, the victorious link: I was asked to WRITE A BOOK, and I did it, and called
it THE INNOCENTS ABROAD. Thus I became at last a member of the literary guild. That was forty-two
years ago, and I have been a member ever since. Leaving the Rubicon incident away back where
it belongs, I can say with truth that the reason I am in the literary profession is because
I had the measles when I was twelve years old.

III

Now what interests me, as regards these details, is not the details themselves, but the fact
that none of them was foreseen by me, none of them was planned by me, I was the author of none
of them. Circumstance, working in harness with my temperament, created them all and compelled
them all. I often offered help, and with the best intentions, but it was rejected--as a rule,
uncourteously. I could never plan a thing and get it to come out the way I planned it. It came
out some other way--some way I had not counted upon.

And so I do not admire the human being--as an intellectual marvel--as much as I did when I
was young, and got him out of books, and did not know him personally. When I used to read that
such and such a general did a certain brilliant thing, I believed it. Whereas it was not so.
Circumstance did it by help of his temperament. The circumstances would have failed of effect
with a general of another temperament: he might see the chance, but lose the advantage by being
by nature too slow or too quick or too doubtful. Once General Grant was asked a question about
a matter which had been much debated by the public and the newspapers; he answered the question
without any hesitancy. "General, who planned the the march through Georgia?" "The enemy!" He
added that the enemy usually makes your plans for you. He meant that the enemy by neglect or
through force of circumstances leaves an opening for you, and you see your chance and take
advantage of it.

Circumstances do the planning for us all, no doubt, by help of our temperaments. I see no great
difference between a man and a watch, except that the man is conscious and the watch isn't,
and the man TRIES to plan things and the watch doesn't. The watch doesn't wind itself and doesn't
regulate itself--these things are done exteriorly. Outside influences, outside circumstances,
wind the MAN and regulate him. Left to himself, he wouldn't get regulated at all, and the sort
of time he would keep would not be valuable. Some rare men are wonderful watches, with gold
case, compensation balance, and all those things, and some men are only simple and sweet and
humble Waterburys. I am a Waterbury. A Waterbury of that kind, some say.

A nation is only an individual multiplied. It makes plans and Circumstances comes and upsets
them--or enlarges them. Some patriots throw the tea overboard; some other patriots destroy
a Bastille. The PLANS stop there; then Circumstance comes in, quite unexpectedly, and turns
these modest riots into a revolution.

And there was poor Columbus. He elaborated a deep plan to find a new route to an old country.
Circumstance revised his plan for him, and he found a new WORLD. And HE gets the credit of
it to this day. He hadn't anything to do with it.

Necessarily the scene of the real turning-point of my life (and of yours) was the Garden of
Eden. It was there that the first link was forged of the chain that was ultimately to lead
to the emptying of me into the literary guild. Adam's TEMPERAMENT was the first command the
Deity ever issued to a human being on this planet. And it was the only command Adam would NEVER
be able to disobey. It said, "Be weak, be water, be characterless, be cheaply persuadable."
The latter command, to let the fruit alone, was certain to be disobeyed. Not by Adam himself,
but by his TEMPERAMENT--which he did not create and had no authority over. For the TEMPERAMENT
is the man; the thing tricked out with clothes and named Man is merely its Shadow, nothing
more. The law of the tiger's temperament is, Thou shalt kill; the law of the sheep's temperament
is Thou shalt not kill. To issue later commands requiring the tiger to let the fat stranger
alone, and requiring the sheep to imbue its hands in the blood of the lion is not worth while,
for those commands CAN'T be obeyed. They would invite to violations of the law of TEMPERAMENT,
which is supreme, and take precedence of all other authorities. I cannot help feeling disappointed
in Adam and Eve. That is, in their temperaments. Not in THEM, poor helpless young creatures--afflicted
with temperaments made out of butter; which butter was commanded to get into contact with fire
and BE MELTED. What I cannot help wishing is, that Adam had been postponed, and Martin Luther
and Joan of Arc put in their place--that splendid pair equipped with temperaments not made
of butter, but of asbestos. By neither sugary persuasions nor by hell fire could Satan have
beguiled THEM to eat the apple. There would have been results! Indeed, yes. The apple would
be intact today; there would be no human race; there would be no YOU; there would be no ME.
And the old, old creation-dawn scheme of ultimately launching me into the literary guild would
have been defeated.

HOW TO MAKE HISTORY DATES STICK

These chapters are for children, and I shall try to make the words large enough to command
respect. In the hope that you are listening, and that you have confidence in me, I will proceed.
Dates are difficult things to acquire; and after they are acquired it is difficult to keep
them in the head. But they are very valuable. They are like the cattle-pens of a ranch--they
shut in the several brands of historical cattle, each within its own fence, and keep them from
getting mixed together. Dates are hard to remember because they consist of figures; figures
are monotonously unstriking in appearance, and they don't take hold, they form no pictures,
and so they give the eye no chance to help. Pictures are the thing. Pictures can make dates
stick. They can make nearly anything stick--particularly IF YOU MAKE THE PICTURES YOURSELF.
Indeed, that is the great point--make the pictures YOURSELF. I know about this from experience.
Thirty years ago I was delivering a memorized lecture every night, and every night I had to
help myself with a page of notes to keep from getting myself mixed. The notes consisted of
beginnings of sentences, and were eleven in number, and they ran something like this:

"IN THAT REGION THE WEATHER--"

"AT THAT TIME IT WAS A CUSTOM--"

"BUT IN CALIFORNIA ONE NEVER HEARD--"

Eleven of them. They initialed the brief divisions of the lecture and protected me against
skipping. But they all looked about alike on the page; they formed no picture; I had them by
heart, but I could never with certainty remember the order of their succession; therefore I
always had to keep those notes by me and look at them every little while. Once I mislaid them;
you will not be able to imagine the terrors of that evening. I now saw that I must invent some
other protection. So I got ten of the initial letters by heart in their proper order--I, A,
B, and so on--and I went on the platform the next night with these marked in ink on my ten
finger-nails. But it didn't answer. I kept track of the figures for a while; then I lost it,
and after that I was never quite sure which finger I had used last. I couldn't lick off a letter
after using it, for while that would have made success certain it also would have provoked
too much curiosity. There was curiosity enough without that. To the audience I seemed more
interested in my fingernails than I was in my subject; one or two persons asked me afterward
what was the matter with my hands.

It was now that the idea of pictures occurred to me; then my troubles passed away. In two minutes
I made six pictures with a pen, and they did the work of the eleven catch-sentences, and did
it perfectly. I threw the pictures away as soon as they were made, for I was sure I could shut
my eyes and see them any time. That was a quarter of a century ago; the lecture vanished out
of my head more than twenty years ago, but I would rewrite it from the pictures--for they remain.
Here are three of them: (Fig. 1).

The first one is a haystack--below it a rattlesnake--and it told me where to begin to talk
ranch-life in Carson Valley. The second one told me where to begin the talk about a strange
and violent wind that used to burst upon Carson City from the Sierra Nevadas every afternoon
at two o'clock and try to blow the town away. The third picture, as you easily perceive, is
lightning; its duty was to remind me when it was time to begin to talk about San Francisco
weather, where there IS no lightning--nor thunder, either--and it never failed me.

I will give you a valuable hint. When a man is making a speech and you are to follow him don't
jot down notes to speak from, jot down PICTURES. It is awkward and embarrassing to have to
keep referring to notes; and besides it breaks up your speech and makes it ragged and non-coherent;
but you can tear up your pictures as soon as you have made them--they will stay fresh and strong
in your memory in the order and sequence in which you scratched them down. And many will admire
to see what a good memory you are furnished with, when perhaps your memory is not any better
than mine.

Sixteen years ago when my children were little creatures the governess was trying to hammer
some primer histories into their heads. Part of this fun--if you like to call it that--consisted
in the memorizing of the accession dates of the thirty-seven personages who had ruled England
from the Conqueror down. These little people found it a bitter, hard contract. It was all dates,
and all looked alike, and they wouldn't stick. Day after day of the summer vacation dribbled
by, and still the kings held the fort; the children couldn't conquer any six of them.

With my lecture experience in mind I was aware that I could invent some way out of the trouble
with pictures, but I hoped a way could be found which would let them romp in the open air while
they learned the kings. I found it, and they mastered all the monarchs in a day or two.

The idea was to make them SEE the reigns with their eyes; that would be a large help. We were
at the farm then. From the house-porch the grounds sloped gradually down to the lower fence
and rose on the right to the high ground where my small work-den stood. A carriage-road wound
through the grounds and up the hill. I staked it out with the English monarchs, beginning with
the Conqueror, and you could stand on the porch and clearly see every reign and its length,
from the Conquest down to Victoria, then in the forty-sixth year of her reign--EIGHT HUNDRED
AND SEVENTEEN YEARS OF English history under your eye at once!

English history was an unusually live topic in America just then. The world had suddenly realized
that while it was not noticing the Queen had passed Henry VIII., passed Henry VI. and Elizabeth,
and gaining in length every day. Her reign had entered the list of the long ones; everybody
was interested now--it was watching a race. Would she pass the long Edward? There was a possibility
of it. Would she pass the long Henry? Doubtful, most people said. The long George? Impossible!
Everybody said it. But we have lived to see her leave him two years behind.

I measured off 817 feet of the roadway, a foot representing a year, and at the beginning and
end of each reign I drove a three-foot white-pine stake in the turf by the roadside and wrote
the name and dates on it. Abreast the middle of the porch-front stood a great granite flower-vase
overflowing with a cataract of bright-yellow flowers--I can't think of their name. The vase
of William the Conqueror. We put his name on it and his accession date, 1066. We started from
that and measured off twenty-one feet of the road, and drove William Rufus's state; then thirteen
feet and drove the first Henry's stake; then thirty-five feet and drove Stephen's; then nineteen
feet, which brought us just past the summer-house on the left; then we staked out thirty-five,
ten, and seventeen for the second Henry and Richard and John; turned the curve and entered
upon just what was needed for Henry III.--a level, straight stretch of fifty-six feet of road
without a crinkle in it. And it lay exactly in front of the house, in the middle of the grounds.
There couldn't have been a better place for that long reign; you could stand on the porch and
see those two wide-apart stakes almost with your eyes shut. (Fig. 2.)

That isn't the shape of the road--I have bunched it up like that to save room. The road had
some great curves in it, but their gradual sweep was such that they were no mar to history.
No, in our road one could tell at a glance who was who by the size of the vacancy between stakes--with
LOCALITY to help, of course.

Although I am away off here in a Swedish village (1) and those stakes did not stand till the
snow came, I can see them today as plainly as ever; and whenever I think of an English monarch
his stakes rise before me of their own accord and I notice the large or small space which he
takes up on our road. Are your kings spaced off in your mind? When you think of Richard III.
and of James II. do the durations of their reigns seem about alike to you? It isn't so to me;
I always notice that there's a foot's difference. When you think of Henry III. do you see a
great long stretch of straight road? I do; and just at the end where it joins on to Edward
I. I always see a small pear-bush with its green fruit hanging down. When I think of the Commonwealth
I see a shady little group of these small saplings which we called the oak parlor; when I think
of George III. I see him stretching up the hill, part of him occupied by a flight of stone
steps; and I can locate Stephen to an inch when he comes into my mind, for he just filled the
stretch which went by the summer-house. Victoria's reign reached almost to my study door on
the first little summit; there's sixteen feet to be added now; I believe that that would carry
it to a big pine-tree that was shattered by some lightning one summer when it was trying to hit me.

We got a good deal of fun out of the history road; and exercise, too. We trotted the course
from the conqueror to the study, the children calling out the names, dates, and length of reigns
as we passed the stakes, going a good gait along the long reigns, but slowing down when we
came upon people like Mary and Edward VI., and the short Stuart and Plantagenet, to give time
to get in the statistics. I offered prizes, too--apples. I threw one as far as I could send
it, and the child that first shouted the reign it fell in got the apple.

The children were encouraged to stop locating things as being "over by the arbor," or "in the
oak parlor," or "up at the stone steps," and say instead that the things were in Stephen, or
in the Commonwealth, or in George III. They got the habit without trouble. To have the long
road mapped out with such exactness was a great boon for me, for I had the habit of leaving
books and other articles lying around everywhere, and had not previously been able to definitely
name the place, and so had often been obliged to go to fetch them myself, to save time and
failure; but now I could name the reign I left them in, and send the children.

Next I thought I would measure off the French reigns, and peg them alongside the English ones,
so that we could always have contemporaneous French history under our eyes as we went our English
rounds. We pegged them down to the Hundred Years' War, then threw the idea aside, I do not
now remember why. After that we made the English pegs fence in European and American history
as well as English, and that answered very well. English and alien poets, statesmen, artists,
heroes, battles, plagues, cataclysms, revolutions--we shoveled them all into the English fences
according to their dates. Do you understand? We gave Washington's birth to George II.'s pegs
and his death to George III.'s; George II. got the Lisbon earthquake and George III. the Declaration
of Independence. Goethe, Shakespeare, Napoleon, Savonarola, Joan of Arc, the French Revolution,
the Edict of Nantes, Clive, Wellington, Waterloo, Plassey, Patay, Cowpens, Saratoga, the Battle
of the Boyne, the invention of the logarithms, the microscope, the steam-engine, the telegraph--anything
and everything all over the world--we dumped it all in among the English pegs according to
it date and regardless of its nationality.

If the road-pegging scheme had not succeeded I should have lodged the kings in the children's
heads by means of pictures--that is, I should have tried. It might have failed, for the pictures
could only be effective WHEN MADE BY THE PUPIL; not the master, for it is the work put upon
the drawing that makes the drawing stay in the memory, and my children were too little to make
drawings at that time. And, besides, they had no talent for art, which is strange, for in other
ways they are like me.

But I will develop the picture plan now, hoping that you will be able to use it. It will come
good for indoors when the weather is bad and one cannot go outside and peg a road. Let us imagine
that the kings are a procession, and that they have come out of the Ark and down Ararat for
exercise and are now starting back again up the zigzag road. This will bring several of them
into view at once, and each zigzag will represent the length of a king's reign.

And so on. You will have plenty of space, for by my project you will use the parlor wall. You
do not mark on the wall; that would cause trouble. You only attach bits of paper to it with
pins or thumb-tacks. These will leave no mark.

Take your pen now, and twenty-one pieces of white paper, each two inches square, and we will
do the twenty-one years of the Conqueror's reign. On each square draw a picture of a whale
and write the dates and term of service. We choose the whale for several reasons: its name
and William's begin with the same letter; it is the biggest fish that swims, and William is
the most conspicuous figure in English history in the way of a landmark; finally, a whale is
about the easiest thing to draw. By the time you have drawn twenty-one wales and written "William
I.--1066-1087--twenty-one years" twenty-one times, those details will be your property; you
cannot dislodge them from your memory with anything but dynamite. I will make a sample for
you to copy: (Fig. 3).

I have got his chin up too high, but that is no matter; he is looking for Harold. It may be
that a whale hasn't that fin up there on his back, but I do not remember; and so, since there
is a doubt, it is best to err on the safe side. He looks better, anyway, than he would without it.

Be very careful and ATTENTIVE while you are drawing your first whale from my sample and writing
the word and figures under it, so that you will not need to copy the sample any more. Compare
your copy with the sample; examine closely; if you find you have got everything right and can
shut your eyes and see the picture and call the words and figures, then turn the sample and
copy upside down and make the next copy from memory; and also the next and next, and so on,
always drawing and writing from memory until you have finished the whole twenty-one. This will
take you twenty minutes, or thirty, and by that time you will find that you can make a whale
in less time than an unpracticed person can make a sardine; also, up to the time you die you
will always be able to furnish William's dates to any ignorant person that inquires after them.

You will now take thirteen pieces of BLUE paper, each two inches square, and do William II.
(Fig. 4.)

Make him spout his water forward instead of backward; also make him small, and stick a harpoon
in him and give him that sick look in the eye. Otherwise you might seem to be continuing the
other William, and that would be confusing and a damage. It is quite right to make him small;
he was only about a No. 11 whale, or along there somewhere; there wasn't room in him for his
father's great spirit. The barb of that harpoon ought not to show like that, because it is
down inside the whale and ought to be out of sight, but it cannot be helped; if the barb were
removed people would think some one had stuck a whip-stock into the whale. It is best to leave
the barb the way it is, then every one will know it is a harpoon and attending to business.
Remember--draw from the copy only once; make your other twelve and the inscription from memory.

Now the truth is that whenever you have copied a picture and its inscription once from my sample
and two or three times from memory the details will stay with you and be hard to forget. After
that, if you like, you may make merely the whale's HEAD and WATER-SPOUT for the Conqueror till
you end his reign, each time SAYING the inscription in place of writing it; and in the case
of William II. make the HARPOON alone, and say over the inscription each time you do it. You
see, it will take nearly twice as long to do the first set as it will to do the second, and
that will give you a marked sense of the difference in length of the two reigns.

Next do Henry I. on thirty-five squares of RED paper. (Fig. 5.)

That is a hen, and suggests Henry by furnishing the first syllable. When you have repeated
the hen and the inscription until you are perfectly sure of them, draw merely the hen's head
the rest of the thirty-five times, saying over the inscription each time. Thus: (Fig. 6).

You begin to understand how how this procession is going to look when it is on the wall. First
there will be the Conqueror's twenty-one whales and water-spouts, the twenty-one white squares
joined to one another and making a white stripe three and one-half feet long; the thirteen
blue squares of William II. will be joined to that--a blue stripe two feet, two inches long,
followed by Henry's red stripe five feet, ten inches long, and so on. The colored divisions
will smartly show to the eye the difference in the length of the reigns and impress the proportions
on the memory and the understanding. (Fig. 7.)

Stephen of Blois comes next. He requires nineteen two-inch squares of YELLOW paper. (Fig. 8.)

That is a steer. The sound suggests the beginning of Stephen's name. I choose it for that reason.
I can make a better steer than that when I am not excited. But this one will do. It is a good-enough
steer for history. The tail is defective, but it only wants straightening out.

Next comes Henry II. Give him thirty-five squares of RED paper. These hens must face west,
like the former ones. (Fig. 9.)

This hen differs from the other one. He is on his way to inquire what has been happening in
Canterbury.

How we arrive at Richard I., called Richard of the Lion-heart because he was a brave fighter
and was never so contented as when he was leading crusades in Palestine and neglecting his
affairs at home. Give him ten squares of WHITE paper. (Fig. 10).

That is a lion. His office is to remind you of the lion-hearted Richard. There is something
the matter with his legs, but I do not quite know what it is, they do not seem right. I think
the hind ones are the most unsatisfactory; the front ones are well enough, though it would
be better if they were rights and lefts.

Next comes King John, and he was a poor circumstance. He was called Lackland. He gave his realm
to the Pope. Let him have seventeen squares of YELLOW paper. (Fig. 11.)

That creature is a jamboree. It looks like a trademark, but that is only an accident and not
intentional. It is prehistoric and extinct. It used to roam the earth in the Old Silurian times,
and lay eggs and catch fish and climb trees and live on fossils; for it was of a mixed breed,
which was the fashion then. It was very fierce, and the Old Silurians were afraid of it, but
this is a tame one. Physically it has no representative now, but its mind has been transmitted.
First I drew it sitting down, but have turned it the other way now because I think it looks
more attractive and spirited when one end of it is galloping. I love to think that in this
attitude it gives us a pleasant idea of John coming all in a happy excitement to see what the
barons have been arranging for him at Runnymede, while the other one gives us an idea of him
sitting down to wring his hands and grieve over it.

We now come to Henry III.; RED squares again, of course--fifty-six of them. We must make all
the Henrys the same color; it will make their long reigns show up handsomely on the wall. Among
all the eight Henrys there were but two short ones. A lucky name, as far as longevity goes.
The reigns of six of the Henrys cover 227 years. It might have been well to name all the royal
princes Henry, but this was overlooked until it was too late. (Fig. 12.)

This is the best one yet. He is on his way (1265) to have a look at the first House of Commons
in English history. It was a monumental event, the situation in the House, and was the second
great liberty landmark which the century had set up. I have made Henry looking glad, but this
was not intentional.

Edward I. comes next; LIGHT-BROWN paper, thirty-five squares. (Fig. 13.)

That is an editor. He is trying to think of a word. He props his feet on a chair, which is
the editor's way; then he can think better. I do not care much for this one; his ears are not
alike; still, editor suggests the sound of Edward, and he will do. I could make him better
if I had a model, but I made this one from memory. But is no particular matter; they all look
alike, anyway. They are conceited and troublesome, and don't pay enough. Edward was the first
really English king that had yet occupied the throne. The editor in the picture probably looks
just as Edward looked when it was first borne in upon him that this was so. His whole attitude
expressed gratification and pride mixed with stupefaction and astonishment.

Edward II. now; twenty BLUE squares. (Fig. 14.)

Another editor. That thing behind his ear is his pencil. Whenever he finds a bright thing in
your manuscript he strikes it out with that. That does him good, and makes him smile and show
his teeth, the way he is doing in the picture. This one has just been striking out a smart
thing, and now he is sitting there with his thumbs in his vest-holes, gloating. They are full
of envy and malice, editors are. This picture will serve to remind you that Edward II. was
the first English king who was DEPOSED. Upon demand, he signed his deposition himself. He had
found kingship a most aggravating and disagreeable occupation, and you can see by the look
of him that he is glad he resigned. He has put his blue pencil up for good now. He had struck
out many a good thing with it in his time.

Edward III. next; fifty RED squares. (Fig. 15.)

This editor is a critic. He has pulled out his carving-knife and his tomahawk and is starting
after a book which he is going to have for breakfast. This one's arms are put on wrong. I did
not notice it at first, but I see it now. Somehow he has got his right arm on his left shoulder,
and his left arm on his right shoulder, and this shows us the back of his hands in both instances.
It makes him left-handed all around, which is a thing which has never happened before, except
perhaps in a museum. That is the way with art, when it is not acquired but born to you: you
start in to make some simple little thing, not suspecting that your genius is beginning to
work and swell and strain in secret, and all of a sudden there is a convulsion and you fetch
out something astonishing. This is called inspiration. It is an accident; you never know when
it is coming. I might have tried as much as a year to think of such a strange thing as an all-around
left-handed man and I could not have done it, for the more you try to think of an unthinkable
thing the more it eludes you; but it can't elude inspiration; you have only to bait with inspiration
and you will get it every time. Look at Botticelli's "Spring." Those snaky women were unthinkable,
but inspiration secured them for us, thanks to goodness. It is too late to reorganize this
editor-critic now; we will leave him as he is. He will serve to remind us.

Richard II. next; twenty-two WHITE squares. (Fig. 16.)

We use the lion again because this is another Richard. Like Edward II., he was DEPOSED. He
is taking a last sad look at his crown before they take it away. There was not room enough
and I have made it too small; but it never fitted him, anyway.

Now we turn the corner of the century with a new line of monarchs--the Lancastrian kings.

Henry IV.; fourteen squares of YELLOW paper. (Fig. 17.)

This hen has laid the egg of a new dynasty and realizes the magnitude of the event. She is
giving notice in the usual way. You notice I am improving in the construction of hens. At first
I made them too much like other animals, but this one is orthodox. I mention this to encourage
you. You will find that the more you practice the more accurate you will become. I could always
draw animals, but before I was educated I could not tell what kind they were when I got them
done, but now I can. Keep up your courage; it will be the same with you, although you may not
think it. This Henry died the year after Joan of Arc was born.

Henry V.; nine BLUE squares. (Fig. 18)

There you see him lost in meditation over the monument which records the amazing figures of
the battle of Agincourt. French history says 20,000 Englishmen routed 80,000 Frenchmen there;
and English historians say that the French loss, in killed and wounded, was 60,000.

Henry VI.; thirty-nine RED squares. (Fig. 19)

This is poor Henry VI., who reigned long and scored many misfortunes and humiliations. Also
two great disasters: he lost France to Joan of Arc and he lost the throne and ended the dynasty
which Henry IV. had started in business with such good prospects. In the picture we see him
sad and weary and downcast, with the scepter falling from his nerveless grasp. It is a pathetic
quenching of a sun which had risen in such splendor.

Edward IV.; twenty-two LIGHT-BROWN squares. (Fig. 20.)

That is a society editor, sitting there elegantly dressed, with his legs crossed in that indolent
way, observing the clothes the ladies wear, so that he can describe them for his paper and
make them out finer than they are and get bribes for it and become wealthy. That flower which
he is wearing in his buttonhole is a rose--a white rose, a York rose--and will serve to remind
us of the War of the Roses, and that the white one was the winning color when Edward got the
throne and dispossessed the Lancastrian dynasty.

Edward V.; one-third of a BLACK square. (Fig. 21.)

His uncle Richard had him murdered in the tower. When you get the reigns displayed upon the
wall this one will be conspicuous and easily remembered. It is the shortest one in English
history except Lady Jane Grey's, which was only nine days. She is never officially recognized
as a monarch of England, but if you or I should ever occupy a throne we should like to have
proper notice taken of it; and it would be only fair and right, too, particularly if we gained
nothing by it and lost our lives besides.

Richard III.; two WHITE squares. (Fig. 22.)

That is not a very good lion, but Richard was not a very good king. You would think that this
lion has two heads, but that is not so; one is only a shadow. There would be shadows for the
rest of him, but there was not light enough to go round, it being a dull day, with only fleeting
sun-glimpses now and then. Richard had a humped back and a hard heart, and fell at the battle
of Bosworth. I do not know the name of that flower in the pot, but we will use it as Richard's
trade-mark, for it is said that it grows in only one place in the world--Bosworth Field--and
tradition says it never grew there until Richard's royal blood warmed its hidden seed to life
and made it grow.

Henry VII.; twenty-four BLUE squares. (Fig. 23.)

Henry VII. had no liking for wars and turbulence; he preferred peace and quiet and the general
prosperity which such conditions create. He liked to sit on that kind of eggs on his own private
account as well as the nation's, and hatch them out and count up their result. When he died
he left his heir 2,000,000 pounds, which was a most unusual fortune for a king to possess in
those days. Columbus's great achievement gave him the discovery-fever, and he sent Sebastian
Cabot to the New World to search out some foreign territory for England. That is Cabot's ship
up there in the corner. This was the first time that England went far abroad to enlarge her
estate--but not the last.

Henry VIII.; thirty-eight RED squares. (Fig. 24.)

That is Henry VIII. suppressing a monastery in his arrogant fashion.

Edward VI.; six squares of YELLOW paper. (Fig. 25.)

He is the last Edward to date. It is indicated by that thing over his head, which is a LAST--shoemaker's
last.

Mary; five squares of BLACK paper. (Fig. 26.)

The picture represents a burning martyr. He is in back of the smoke. The first three letters
of Mary's name and the first three of the word martyr are the same. Martyrdom was going out
in her day and martyrs were becoming scarcer, but she made several. For this reason she is
sometimes called Bloody Mary.

This brings us to the reign of Elizabeth, after passing through a period of nearly five hundred
years of England's history--492 to be exact. I think you may now be trusted to go the rest
of the way without further lessons in art or inspirations in the matter of ideas. You have
the scheme now, and something in the ruler's name or career will suggest the pictorial symbol.
The effort of inventing such things will not only help your memory, but will develop originality
in art. See what it has done for me. If you do not find the parlor wall big enough for all
of England's history, continue it into the dining-room and into other rooms. This will make
the walls interesting and instructive and really worth something instead of being just flat
things to hold the house together.

     1.  Summer of 1899.

THE MEMORABLE ASSASSINATION

Note.--The assassination of the Empress of Austria at Geneva, September 10, 1898, occurred
during Mark Twain's Austrian residence. The news came to him at Kaltenleutgeben, a summer resort
a little way out of Vienna. To his friend, the Rev. Jos. H. Twichell, he wrote:

"That good and unoffending lady, the Empress, is killed by a madman, and I am living in the
midst of world-history again. The Queen's Jubilee last year, the invasion of the Reichsrath
by the police, and now this murder, which will still be talked of and described and painted
a thousand a thousand years from now. To have a personal friend of the wearer of two crowns
burst in at the gate in the deep dusk of the evening and say, in a voice broken with tears,
'My God! the Empress is murdered,' and fly toward her home before we can utter a question--why,
it brings the giant event home to you, makes you a part of it and personally interested; it
is as if your neighbor, Antony, should come flying and say, 'Caesar is butchered--the head
of the world is fallen!'

"Of course there is no talk but of this. The mourning is universal and genuine, the consternation
is stupefying. The Austrian Empire is being draped with black. Vienna will be a spectacle to
see by next Saturday, when the funeral cortege marches."

He was strongly moved by the tragedy, impelled to write concerning it. He prepared the article
which follows, but did not offer it for publication, perhaps feeling that his own close association
with the court circles at the moment prohibited this personal utterance. There appears no such
reason for withholding its publication now.

A. B. P.

The more one thinks of the assassination, the more imposing and tremendous the event becomes.
The destruction of a city is a large event, but it is one which repeats itself several times
in a thousand years; the destruction of a third part of a nation by plague and famine is a
large event, but it has happened several times in history; the murder of a king is a large
event, but it has been frequent.

The murder of an empress is the largest of all events. One must go back about two thousand
years to find an instance to put with this one. The oldest family of unchallenged descent in
Christendom lives in Rome and traces its line back seventeen hundred years, but no member of
it has been present in the earth when an empress was murdered, until now. Many a time during
these seventeen centuries members of that family have been startled with the news of extraordinary
events--the destruction of cities, the fall of thrones, the murder of kings, the wreck of dynasties,
the extinction of religions, the birth of new systems of government; and their descendants
have been by to hear of it and talk about it when all these things were repeated once, twice,
or a dozen times--but to even that family has come news at last which is not staled by use,
has no duplicates in the long reach of its memory.

It is an event which confers a curious distinction upon every individual now living in the
world: he has stood alive and breathing in the presence of an event such as has not fallen
within the experience of any traceable or untraceable ancestor of his for twenty centuries,
and it is not likely to fall within the experience of any descendant of his for twenty more.

Time has made some great changes since the Roman days. The murder of an empress then--even
the assassination of Caesar himself--could not electrify the world as this murder has electrified
it. For one reason, there was then not much of a world to electrify; it was a small world,
as to known bulk, and it had rather a thin population, besides; and for another reason, the
news traveled so slowly that its tremendous initial thrill wasted away, week by week and month
by month, on the journey, and by the time it reached the remoter regions there was but little
of it left. It was no longer a fresh event, it was a thing of the far past; it was not properly
news, it was history. But the world is enormous now, and prodigiously populated--that is one
change; and another is the lightning swiftness of the flight of tidings, good and bad. "The
Empress is murdered!" When those amazing words struck upon my ear in this Austrian village
last Saturday, three hours after the disaster, I knew that it was already old news in London,
Paris, Berlin, New York, San Francisco, Japan, China, Melbourne, Cape Town, Bombay, Madras,
Calcutta, and that the entire globe with a single voice, was cursing the perpetrator of it.
Since the telegraph first began to stretch itself wider and wider about the earth, larger and
increasingly larger areas of the world have, as time went on, received simultaneously the shock
of a great calamity; but this is the first time in history that the entire surface of the globe
has been swept in a single instant with the thrill of so gigantic an event.

And who is the miracle-worker who has furnished to the world this spectacle? All the ironies
are compacted in the answer. He is at the bottom of the human ladder, as the accepted estimates
of degree and value go: a soiled and patched young loafer, without gifts, without talents,
without education, without morals, without character, without any born charm or any acquired
one that wins or beguiles or attracts; without a single grace of mind or heart or hand that
any tramp or prostitute could envy him; an unfaithful private in the ranks, an incompetent
stone-cutter, an inefficient lackey; in a word, a mangy, offensive, empty, unwashed, vulgar,
gross, mephitic, timid, sneaking, human polecat. And it was within the privileges and powers
of this sarcasm upon the human race to reach up--up--up--and strike from its far summit in
the social skies the world's accepted ideal of Glory and Might and Splendor and Sacredness!
It realizes to us what sorry shows and shadows we are. Without our clothes and our pedestals
we are poor things and much of a size; our dignities are not real, our pomps are shams. At
our best and stateliest we are not suns, as we pretended, and teach, and believe, but only
candles; and any bummer can blow us out.

And now we get realized to us once more another thing which we often forget--or try to: that
no man has a wholly undiseased mind; that in one way or another all men are mad. Many are mad
for money. When this madness is in a mild form it is harmless and the man passes for sane;
but when it develops powerfully and takes possession of the man, it can make him cheat, rob,
and kill; and when he has got his fortune and lost it again it can land him in the asylum or
the suicide's coffin. Love is a madness; if thwarted it develops fast; it can grow to a frenzy
of despair and make an otherwise sane and highly gifted prince, like Rudolph, throw away the
crown of an empire and snuff out his own life. All the whole list of desires, predilections,
aversions, ambitions, passions, cares, griefs, regrets, remorses, are incipient madness, and
ready to grow, spread, and consume, when the occasion comes. There are no healthy minds, and
nothing saves any man but accident--the accident of not having his malady put to the supreme test.

One of the commonest forms of madness is the desire to be noticed, the pleasure derived from
being noticed. Perhaps it is not merely common, but universal. In its mildest form it doubtless
is universal. Every child is pleased at being noticed; many intolerable children put in their
whole time in distressing and idiotic effort to attract the attention of visitors; boys are
always "showing off"; apparently all men and women are glad and grateful when they find that
they have done a thing which has lifted them for a moment out of obscurity and caused wondering
talk. This common madness can develop, by nurture, into a hunger for notoriety in one, for
fame in another. It is this madness for being noticed and talked about which has invented kingship
and the thousand other dignities, and tricked them out with pretty and showy fineries; it has
made kings pick one another's pockets, scramble for one another's crowns and estates, slaughter
one another's subjects; it has raised up prize-fighters, and poets, and villages mayors, and
little and big politicians, and big and little charity-founders, and bicycle champions, and
banditti chiefs, and frontier desperadoes, and Napoleons. Anything to get notoriety; anything
to set the village, or the township, or the city, or the State, or the nation, or the planet
shouting, "Look--there he goes--that is the man!" And in five minutes' time, at no cost of
brain, or labor, or genius this mangy Italian tramp has beaten them all, transcended them all,
outstripped them all, for in time their names will perish; but by the friendly help of the
insane newspapers and courts and kings and historians, his is safe and live and thunder in
the world all down the ages as long as human speech shall endure! Oh, if it were not so tragic
how ludicrous it would be!

She was so blameless, the Empress; and so beautiful, in mind and heart, in person and spirit;
and whether with a crown upon her head or without it and nameless, a grace to the human race,
and almost a justification of its creation; WOULD be, indeed, but that the animal that struck
her down re-establishes the doubt.

In her character was every quality that in woman invites and engages respect, esteem, affection,
and homage. Her tastes, her instincts, and her aspirations were all high and fine and all her
life her heart and brain were busy with activities of a noble sort. She had had bitter griefs,
but they did not sour her spirit, and she had had the highest honors in the world's gift, but
she went her simple way unspoiled. She knew all ranks, and won them all, and made them her
friends. An English fisherman's wife said, "When a body was in trouble she didn't send her
help, she brought it herself." Crowns have adorned others, but she adorned her crowns.

It was a swift celebrity the assassin achieved. And it is marked by some curious contrasts.
At noon last, Saturday there was no one in the world who would have considered acquaintanceship
with him a thing worth claiming or mentioning; no one would have been vain of such an acquaintanceship;
the humblest honest boot-black would not have valued the fact that he had met him or seen him
at some time or other; he was sunk in abysmal obscurity, he was away beneath the notice of
the bottom grades of officialdom. Three hours later he was the one subject of conversation
in the world, the gilded generals and admirals and governors were discussing him, all the kings
and queens and emperors had put aside their other interests to talk about him. And wherever
there was a man, at the summit of the world or the bottom of it, who by chance had at some
time or other come across that creature, he remembered it with a secret satisfaction, and MENTIONED
it--for it was a distinction, now! It brings human dignity pretty low, and for a moment the
thing is not quite realizable--but it is perfectly true. If there is a king who can remember,
now, that he once saw that creature in a time past, he has let that fact out, in a more or
less studiedly casual and indifferent way, some dozens of times during the past week. For a
king is merely human; the inside of him is exactly like the inside of any other person; and
it is human to find satisfaction in being in a kind of personal way connected with amazing
events. We are all privately vain of such a thing; we are all alike; a king is a king by accident;
the reason the rest of us are not kings is merely due to another accident; we are all made
out of the same clay, and it is a sufficient poor quality.

Below the kings, these remarks are in the air these days; I know it well as if I were hearing them:

THE COMMANDER: "He was in my army."

THE GENERAL: "He was in my corps."

THE COLONEL: "He was in my regiment. A brute. I remember him well."

THE CAPTAIN: "He was in my company. A troublesome scoundrel. I remember him well."

THE SERGEANT: "Did I know him? As well as I know you. Why, every morning I used to--" etc.,
etc.; a glad, long story, told to devouring ears.

THE LANDLADY: "Many's the time he boarded with me. I can show you his very room, and the very
bed he slept in. And the charcoal mark there on the wall--he made that. My little Johnny saw
him do it with his own eyes. Didn't you, Johnny?"

It is easy to see, by the papers, that the magistrate and the constables and the jailer treasure
up the assassin's daily remarks and doings as precious things, and as wallowing this week in
seas of blissful distinction. The interviewer, too; he tried to let on that he is not vain
of his privilege of contact with this man whom few others are allowed to gaze upon, but he
is human, like the rest, and can no more keep his vanity corked in than could you or I.

Some think that this murder is a frenzied revolt against the criminal militarism which is impoverishing
Europe and driving the starving poor mad. That has many crimes to answer for, but not this
one, I think. One may not attribute to this man a generous indignation against the wrongs done
the poor; one may not dignify him with a generous impulse of any kind. When he saw his photograph
and said, "I shall be celebrated," he laid bare the impulse that prompted him. It was a mere
hunger for notoriety. There is another confessed case of the kind which is as old as history--the
burning of the temple of Ephesus.

Among the inadequate attempts to account for the assassination we must concede high rank to
the many which have described it as a "peculiarly brutal crime" and then added that it was
"ordained from above." I think this verdict will not be popular "above." If the deed was ordained
from above, there is no rational way of making this prisoner even partially responsible for
it, and the Genevan court cannot condemn him without manifestly committing a crime. Logic is
logic, and by disregarding its laws even the most pious and showy theologian may be beguiled
into preferring charges which should not be ventured upon except in the shelter of plenty of
lightning-rods.

I witnessed the funeral procession, in company with friends, from the windows of the Krantz,
Vienna's sumptuous new hotel. We came into town in the middle of the forenoon, and I went on
foot from the station. Black flags hung down from all the houses; the aspects were Sunday-like;
the crowds on the sidewalks were quiet and moved slowly; very few people were smoking; many
ladies wore deep mourning, gentlemen were in black as a rule; carriages were speeding in all
directions, with footmen and coachmen in black clothes and wearing black cocked hats; the shops
were closed; in many windows were pictures of the Empress: as a beautiful young bride of seventeen;
as a serene and majestic lady with added years; and finally in deep black and without ornaments--the
costume she always wore after the tragic death of her son nine years ago, for her heart broke
then, and life lost almost all its value for her. The people stood grouped before these pictures,
and now and then one saw women and girls turn away wiping the tears from their eyes.

In front of the Krantz is an open square; over the way was the church where the funeral services
would be held. It is small and old and severely plain, plastered outside and whitewashed or
painted, and with no ornament but a statue of a monk in a niche over the door, and above that
a small black flag. But in its crypt lie several of the great dead of the House of Habsburg,
among them Maria Theresa and Napoleon's son, the Duke of Reichstadt. Hereabouts was a Roman
camp, once, and in it the Emperor Marcus Aurelius died a thousand years before the first Habsburg
ruled in Vienna, which was six hundred years ago and more.

The little church is packed in among great modern stores and houses, and the windows of them
were full of people. Behind the vast plate-glass windows of the upper floors of the house on
the corner one glimpsed terraced masses of fine-clothed men and women, dim and shimmery, like
people under water. Under us the square was noiseless, but it was full of citizens; officials
in fine uniforms were flitting about on errands, and in a doorstep sat a figure in the uttermost
raggedness of poverty, the feet bare, the head bent humbly down; a youth of eighteen or twenty,
he was, and through the field-glass one could see that he was tearing apart and munching riffraff
that he had gathered somewhere. Blazing uniforms flashed by him, making a sparkling contrast
with his drooping ruin of moldy rags, but he took not notice; he was not there to grieve for
a nation's disaster; he had his own cares, and deeper. From two directions two long files of
infantry came plowing through the pack and press in silence; there was a low, crisp order and
the crowd vanished, the square save the sidewalks was empty, the private mourner was gone.
Another order, the soldiers fell apart and enclosed the square in a double-ranked human fence.
It was all so swift, noiseless, exact--like a beautifully ordered machine.

It was noon, now. Two hours of stillness and waiting followed. Then carriages began to flow
past and deliver the two and three hundred court personages and high nobilities privileged
to enter the church. Then the square filled up; not with civilians, but with army and navy
officers in showy and beautiful uniforms. They filled it compactly, leaving only a narrow carriage
path in front of the church, but there was no civilian among them. And it was better so; dull
clothes would have marred the radiant spectacle. In the jam in front of the church, on its
steps, and on the sidewalk was a bunch of uniforms which made a blazing splotch of color--intense
red, gold, and white--which dimmed the brilliancies around them; and opposite them on the other
side of the path was a bunch of cascaded bright-green plumes above pale-blue shoulders which
made another splotch of splendor emphatic and conspicuous in its glowing surroundings. It was
a sea of flashing color all about, but these two groups were the high notes. The green plumes
were worn by forty or fifty Austrian generals, the group opposite them were chiefly Knights
of Malta and knights of a German order. The mass of heads in the square were covered by gilt
helmets and by military caps roofed with a mirror-like gaze, and the movements of the wearers
caused these things to catch the sun-rays, and the effect was fine to see--the square was like
a garden of richly colored flowers with a multitude of blinding and flashing little suns distributed
over it.

Think of it--it was by command of that Italian loafer yonder on his imperial throne in the
Geneva prison that this splendid multitude was assembled there; and the kings and emperors
that were entering the church from a side street were there by his will. It is so strange,
so unrealizable.

At three o'clock the carriages were still streaming by in single file. At three-five a cardinal
arrives with his attendants; later some bishops; then a number of archdeacons--all in striking
colors that add to the show. At three-ten a procession of priests passed along, with crucifix.
Another one, presently; after an interval, two more; at three-fifty another one--very long,
with many crosses, gold-embroidered robes, and much white lace; also great pictured banners,
at intervals, receding into the distance.

A hum of tolling bells makes itself heard, but not sharply. At three-fifty-eight a waiting
interval. Presently a long procession of gentlemen in evening dress comes in sight and approaches
until it is near to the square, then falls back against the wall of soldiers at the sidewalk,
and the white shirt-fronts show like snowflakes and are very conspicuous where so much warm
color is all about.

A waiting pause. At four-twelve the head of the funeral procession comes into view at last.
First, a body of cavalry, four abreast, to widen the path. Next, a great body of lancers, in
blue, with gilt helmets. Next, three six-horse mourning-coaches; outriders and coachmen in
black, with cocked hats and white wigs. Next, troops in splendid uniforms, red, gold, and white,
exceedingly showy.

Now the multitude uncover. The soldiers present arms; there is a low rumble of drums; the sumptuous
great hearse approaches, drawn at a walk by eight black horses plumed with black bunches of
nodding ostrich feathers; the coffin is borne into the church, the doors are closed.

The multitude cover their heads, and the rest of the procession moves by; first the Hungarian
Guard in their indescribably brilliant and picturesque and beautiful uniform, inherited from
the ages of barbaric splendor, and after them other mounted forces, a long and showy array.

Then the shining crown in the square crumbled apart, a wrecked rainbow, and melted away in
radiant streams, and in the turn of a wrist the three dirtiest and raggedest and cheerfulest
little slum-girls in Austria were capering about in the spacious vacancy. It was a day of contrasts.

Twice the Empress entered Vienna in state. The first time was in 1854, when she was a bride
of seventeen, and then she rode in measureless pomp and with blare of music through a fluttering
world of gay flags and decorations, down streets walled on both hands with a press of shouting
and welcoming subjects; and the second time was last Wednesday, when she entered the city in
her coffin and moved down the same streets in the dead of the night under swaying black flags,
between packed human walls again; but everywhere was a deep stillness, now--a stillness emphasized,
rather than broken, by the muffled hoofbeats of the long cavalcade over pavements cushioned
with sand, and the low sobbing of gray-headed women who had witnessed the first entry forty-four
years before, when she and they were young--and unaware!

A character in Baron von Berger's recent fairy drama "Habsburg" tells about the first coming
of the girlish Empress-Queen, and in his history draws a fine picture: I cannot make a close
translation of it, but will try to convey the spirit of the verses:

     I saw the stately pageant pass:
     In her high place I saw the Empress-Queen:
     I could not take my eyes away
     From that fair vision, spirit-like and pure,
     That rose serene, sublime, and figured to my sense
     A noble Alp far lighted in the blue,
     That in the flood of morning rends its veil of cloud
     And stands a dream of glory to the gaze
     Of them that in the Valley toil and plod.

A SCRAP OF CURIOUS HISTORY

Marion City, on the Mississippi River, in the State of Missouri--a village; time, 1845. La
Bourboule-les-Bains, France--a village; time, the end of June, 1894. I was in the one village
in that early time; I am in the other now. These times and places are sufficiently wide apart,
yet today I have the strange sense of being thrust back into that Missourian village and of
reliving certain stirring days that I lived there so long ago.

Last Saturday night the life of the President of the French Republic was taken by an Italian
assassin. Last night a mob surrounded our hotel, shouting, howling, singing the "Marseillaise,"
and pelting our windows with sticks and stones; for we have Italian waiters, and the mob demanded
that they be turned out of the house instantly--to be drubbed, and then driven out of the village.
Everybody in the hotel remained up until far into the night, and experienced the several kinds
of terror which one reads about in books which tell of nigh attacks by Italians and by French
mobs: the growing roar of the oncoming crowd; the arrival, with rain of stones and a crash
of glass; the withdrawal to rearrange plans--followed by a silence ominous, threatening, and
harder to bear than even the active siege and the noise. The landlord and the two village policemen
stood their ground, and at last the mob was persuaded to go away and leave our Italians in
peace. Today four of the ringleaders have been sentenced to heavy punishment of a public sort--and
are become local heroes, by consequence.

That is the very mistake which was at first made in the Missourian village half a century ago.
The mistake was repeated and repeated--just as France is doing in these later months.

In our village we had our Ravochals, our Henrys, our Vaillants; and in a humble way our Cesario--I
hope I have spelled this name wrong. Fifty years ago we passed through, in all essentials,
what France has been passing through during the past two or three years, in the matter of periodical
frights, horrors, and shudderings.

In several details the parallels are quaintly exact. In that day, for a man to speak out openly
and proclaim himself an enemy of negro slavery was simply to proclaim himself a madman. For
he was blaspheming against the holiest thing known to a Missourian, and could NOT be in his
right mind. For a man to proclaim himself an anarchist in France, three years ago, was to proclaim
himself a madman--he could not be in his right mind.

Now the original first blasphemer against any institution profoundly venerated by a community
is quite sure to be in earnest; his followers and imitators may be humbugs and self-seekers,
but he himself is sincere--his heart is in his protest.

Robert Hardy was our first ABOLITIONIST--awful name! He was a journeyman cooper, and worked
in the big cooper-shop belonging to the great pork-packing establishment which was Marion City's
chief pride and sole source of prosperity. He was a New-Englander, a stranger. And, being a
stranger, he was of course regarded as an inferior person--for that has been human nature from
Adam down--and of course, also, he was made to feel unwelcome, for this is the ancient law
with man and the other animals. Hardy was thirty years old, and a bachelor; pale, given to
reverie and reading. He was reserved, and seemed to prefer the isolation which had fallen to
his lot. He was treated to many side remarks by his fellows, but as he did not resent them
it was decided that he was a coward.

All of a sudden he proclaimed himself an abolitionist--straight out and publicly! He said that
negro slavery was a crime, an infamy. For a moment the town was paralyzed with astonishment;
then it broke into a fury of rage and swarmed toward the cooper-shop to lynch Hardy. But the
Methodist minister made a powerful speech to them and stayed their hands. He proved to them
that Hardy was insane and not responsible for his words; that no man COULD be sane and utter
such words.

So Hardy was saved. Being insane, he was allowed to go on talking. He was found to be good
entertainment. Several nights running he made abolition speeches in the open air, and all the
town flocked to hear and laugh. He implored them to believe him sane and sincere, and have
pity on the poor slaves, and take measurements for the restoration of their stolen rights,
or in no long time blood would flow--blood, blood, rivers of blood!

It was great fun. But all of a sudden the aspect of things changed. A slave came flying from
Palmyra, the county-seat, a few miles back, and was about to escape in a canoe to Illinois
and freedom in the dull twilight of the approaching dawn, when the town constable seized him.
Hardy happened along and tried to rescue the negro; there was a struggle, and the constable
did not come out of it alive. Hardly crossed the river with the negro, and then came back to
give himself up. All this took time, for the Mississippi is not a French brook, like the Seine,
the Loire, and those other rivulets, but is a real river nearly a mile wide. The town was on
hand in force by now, but the Methodist preacher and the sheriff had already made arrangements
in the interest of order; so Hardy was surrounded by a strong guard and safely conveyed to
the village calaboose in spite of all the effort of the mob to get hold of him. The reader
will have begun to perceive that this Methodist minister was a prompt man; a prompt man, with
active hands and a good headpiece. Williams was his name--Damon Williams; Damon Williams in
public, Damnation Williams in private, because he was so powerful on that theme and so frequent.

The excitement was prodigious. The constable was the first man who had ever been killed in
the town. The event was by long odds the most imposing in the town's history. It lifted the
humble village into sudden importance; its name was in everybody's mouth for twenty miles around.
And so was the name of Robert Hardy--Robert Hardy, the stranger, the despised. In a day he
was become the person of most consequence in the region, the only person talked about. As to
those other coopers, they found their position curiously changed--they were important people,
or unimportant, now, in proportion as to how large or how small had been their intercourse
with the new celebrity. The two or three who had really been on a sort of familiar footing
with him found themselves objects of admiring interest with the public and of envy with their
shopmates.

The village weekly journal had lately gone into new hands. The new man was an enterprising
fellow, and he made the most of the tragedy. He issued an extra. Then he put up posters promising
to devote his whole paper to matters connected with the great event--there would be a full
and intensely interesting biography of the murderer, and even a portrait of him. He was as
good as his word. He carved the portrait himself, on the back of a wooden type--and a terror
it was to look at. It made a great commotion, for this was the first time the village paper
had ever contained a picture. The village was very proud. The output of the paper was ten times
as great as it had ever been before, yet every copy was sold.

When the trial came on, people came from all the farms around, and from Hannibal, and Quincy,
and even from Keokuk; and the court-house could hold only a fraction of the crowd that applied
for admission. The trial was published in the village paper, with fresh and still more trying
pictures of the accused.

Hardy was convicted, and hanged--a mistake. People came from miles around to see the hanging;
they brought cakes and cider, also the women and children, and made a picnic of the matter.
It was the largest crowd the village had ever seen. The rope that hanged Hardy was eagerly
bought up, in inch samples, for everybody wanted a memento of the memorable event.

Martyrdom gilded with notoriety has its fascinations. Within one week afterward four young
lightweights in the village proclaimed themselves abolitionists! In life Hardy had not been
able to make a convert; everybody laughed at him; but nobody could laugh at his legacy. The
four swaggered around with their slouch-hats pulled down over their faces, and hinted darkly
at awful possibilities. The people were troubled and afraid, and showed it. And they were stunned,
too; they could not understand it. "Abolitionist" had always been a term of shame and horror;
yet here were four young men who were not only not ashamed to bear that name, but were grimly
proud of it. Respectable young men they were, too--of good families, and brought up in the
church. Ed Smith, the printer's apprentice, nineteen, had been the head Sunday-school boy,
and had once recited three thousand Bible verses without making a break. Dick Savage, twenty,
the baker's apprentice; Will Joyce, twenty-two, journeyman blacksmith; and Henry Taylor, twenty-four,
tobacco-stemmer--were the other three. They were all of a sentimental cast; they were all romance-readers;
they all wrote poetry, such as it was; they were all vain and foolish; but they had never before
been suspected of having anything bad in them.

They withdrew from society, and grew more and more mysterious and dreadful. They presently
achieved the distinction of being denounced by names from the pulpit--which made an immense
stir! This was grandeur, this was fame. They were envied by all the other young fellows now.
This was natural. Their company grew--grew alarmingly. They took a name. It was a secret name,
and was divulged to no outsider; publicly they were simply the abolitionists. They had pass-words,
grips, and signs; they had secret meetings; their initiations were conducted with gloomy pomps
and ceremonies, at midnight.

They always spoke of Hardy as "the Martyr," and every little while they moved through the principal
street in procession--at midnight, black-robed, masked, to the measured tap of the solemn drum--on
pilgrimage to the Martyr's grave, where they went through with some majestic fooleries and
swore vengeance upon his murderers. They gave previous notice of the pilgrimage by small posters,
and warned everybody to keep indoors and darken all houses along the route, and leave the road
empty. These warnings were obeyed, for there was a skull and crossbones at the top of the poster.

When this kind of thing had been going on about eight weeks, a quite natural thing happened.
A few men of character and grit woke up out of the nightmare of fear which had been stupefying
their faculties, and began to discharge scorn and scoffings at themselves and the community
for enduring this child's-play; and at the same time they proposed to end it straightway. Everybody
felt an uplift; life was breathed into their dead spirits; their courage rose and they began
to feel like men again. This was on a Saturday. All day the new feeling grew and strengthened;
it grew with a rush; it brought inspiration and cheer with it. Midnight saw a united community,
full of zeal and pluck, and with a clearly defined and welcome piece of work in front of it.
The best organizer and strongest and bitterest talker on that great Saturday was the Presbyterian
clergyman who had denounced the original four from his pulpit--Rev. Hiram Fletcher--and he
promised to use his pulpit in the public interest again now. On the morrow he had revelations
to make, he said--secrets of the dreadful society.

But the revelations were never made. At half past two in the morning the dead silence of the
village was broken by a crashing explosion, and the town patrol saw the preacher's house spring
in a wreck of whirling fragments into the sky. The preacher was killed, together with a negro
woman, his only slave and servant.

The town was paralyzed again, and with reason. To struggle against a visible enemy is a thing
worth while, and there is a plenty of men who stand always ready to undertake it; but to struggle
against an invisible one--an invisible one who sneaks in and does his awful work in the dark
and leaves no trace--that is another matter. That is a thing to make the bravest tremble and
hold back.

The cowed populace were afraid to go to the funeral. The man who was to have had a packed church
to hear him expose and denounce the common enemy had but a handful to see him buried. The coroner's
jury had brought in a verdict of "death by the visitation of God," for no witness came forward;
if any existed they prudently kept out of the way. Nobody seemed sorry. Nobody wanted to see
the terrible secret society provoked into the commission of further outrages. Everybody wanted
the tragedy hushed up, ignored, forgotten, if possible.

And so there was a bitter surprise and an unwelcome one when Will Joyce, the blacksmith's journeyman,
came out and proclaimed himself the assassin! Plainly he was not minded to be robbed of his
glory. He made his proclamation, and stuck to it. Stuck to it, and insisted upon a trial. Here
was an ominous thing; here was a new and peculiarly formidable terror, for a motive was revealed
here which society could not hope to deal with successfully--VANITY, thirst for notoriety.
If men were going to kill for notoriety's sake, and to win the glory of newspaper renown, a
big trial, and a showy execution, what possible invention of man could discourage or deter
them? The town was in a sort of panic; it did not know what to do.

However, the grand jury had to take hold of the matter--it had no choice. It brought in a true
bill, and presently the case went to the county court. The trial was a fine sensation. The
prisoner was the principal witness for the prosecution. He gave a full account of the assassination;
he furnished even the minutest particulars: how he deposited his keg of powder and laid his
train--from the house to such-and-such a spot; how George Ronalds and Henry Hart came along
just then, smoking, and he borrowed Hart's cigar and fired the train with it, shouting, "Down
with all slave-tyrants!" and how Hart and Ronalds made no effort to capture him, but ran away,
and had never come forward to testify yet.

But they had to testify now, and they did--and pitiful it was to see how reluctant they were,
and how scared. The crowded house listened to Joyce's fearful tale with a profound and breathless
interest, and in a deep hush which was not broken till he broke it himself, in concluding,
with a roaring repetition of his "Death to all slave-tyrants!"--which came so unexpectedly
and so startlingly that it made everyone present catch his breath and gasp.

The trial was put in the paper, with biography and large portrait, with other slanderous and
insane pictures, and the edition sold beyond imagination.

The execution of Joyce was a fine and picturesque thing. It drew a vast crowd. Good places
in trees and seats on rail fences sold for half a dollar apiece; lemonade and gingerbread-stands
had great prosperity. Joyce recited a furious and fantastic and denunciatory speech on the
scaffold which had imposing passages of school-boy eloquence in it, and gave him a reputation
on the spot as an orator, and his name, later, in the society's records, of the "Martyr Orator."
He went to his death breathing slaughter and charging his society to "avenge his murder." If
he knew anything of human nature he knew that to plenty of young fellows present in that great
crowd he was a grand hero--and enviably situated.

He was hanged. It was a mistake. Within a month from his death the society which he had honored
had twenty new members, some of them earnest, determined men. They did not court distinction
in the same way, but they celebrated his martyrdom. The crime which had been obscure and despised
had become lofty and glorified.

Such things were happening all over the country. Wild-brained martyrdom was succeeded by uprising
and organization. Then, in natural order, followed riot, insurrection, and the wrack and restitutions
of war. It was bound to come, and it would naturally come in that way. It has been the manner
of reform since the beginning of the world.

SWITZERLAND, THE CRADLE OF LIBERTY

Interlaken, Switzerland, 1891.

It is a good many years since I was in Switzerland last. In that remote time there was only
one ladder railway in the country. That state of things is all changed. There isn't a mountain
in Switzerland now that hasn't a ladder railroad or two up its back like suspenders; indeed,
some mountains are latticed with them, and two years hence all will be. In that day the peasant
of the high altitudes will have to carry a lantern when he goes visiting in the night to keep
from stumbling over railroads that have been built since his last round. And also in that day,
if there shall remain a high-altitude peasant whose potato-patch hasn't a railroad through
it, it would make him as conspicuous as William Tell.

However, there are only two best ways to travel through Switzerland. The first best is afloat.
The second best is by open two-horse carriage. One can come from Lucerne to Interlaken over
the Brunig by ladder railroad in an hour or so now, but you can glide smoothly in a carriage
in ten, and have two hours for luncheon at noon--for luncheon, not for rest. There is no fatigue
connected with the trip. One arrives fresh in spirit and in person in the evening--no fret
in his heart, no grime on his face, no grit in his hair, not a cinder in his eye. This is the
right condition of mind and body, the right and due preparation for the solemn event which
closed the day--stepping with metaphorically uncovered head into the presence of the most impressive
mountain mass that the globe can show--the Jungfrau. The stranger's first feeling, when suddenly
confronted by that towering and awful apparition wrapped in its shroud of snow, is breath-taking
astonishment. It is as if heaven's gates had swung open and exposed the throne.

It is peaceful here and pleasant at Interlaken. Nothing going on--at least nothing but brilliant
life-giving sunshine. There are floods and floods of that. One may properly speak of it as
"going on," for it is full of the suggestion of activity; the light pours down with energy,
with visible enthusiasm. This is a good atmosphere to be in, morally as well as physically.
After trying the political atmosphere of the neighboring monarchies, it is healing and refreshing
to breathe air that has known no taint of slavery for six hundred years, and to come among
a people whose political history is great and fine, and worthy to be taught in all schools
and studied by all races and peoples. For the struggle here throughout the centuries has not
been in the interest of any private family, or any church, but in the interest of the whole
body of the nation, and for shelter and protection of all forms of belief. This fact is colossal.
If one would realize how colossal it is, and of what dignity and majesty, let him contrast
it with the purposes and objects of the Crusades, the siege of York, the War of the Roses,
and other historic comedies of that sort and size.

Last week I was beating around the Lake of Four Cantons, and I saw Rutli and Altorf. Rutli
is a remote little patch of meadow, but I do not know how any piece of ground could be holier
or better worth crossing oceans and continents to see, since it was there that the great trinity
of Switzerland joined hands six centuries ago and swore the oath which set their enslaved and
insulted country forever free; and Altorf is also honorable ground and worshipful, since it
was there that William, surnamed Tell (which interpreted means "The foolish talker"--that is
to say, the too-daring talker), refused to bow to Gessler's hat. Of late years the prying student
of history has been delighting himself beyond measure over a wonderful find which he has made--to
wit, that Tell did not shoot the apple from his son's head. To hear the students jubilate,
one would suppose that the question of whether Tell shot the apple or didn't was an important
matter; whereas it ranks in importance exactly with the question of whether Washington chopped
down the cherry-tree or didn't. The deeds of Washington, the patriot, are the essential thing;
the cherry-tree incident is of no consequence. To prove that Tell did shoot the apple from
his son's head would merely prove that he had better nerve than most men and was skillful with
a bow as a million others who preceded and followed him, but not one whit more so. But Tell
was more and better than a mere marksman, more and better than a mere cool head; he was a type;
he stands for Swiss patriotism; in his person was represented a whole people; his spirit was
their spirit--the spirit which would bow to none but God, the spirit which said this in words
and confirmed it with deeds. There have always been Tells in Switzerland--people who would
not bow. There was a sufficiency of them at Rutli; there were plenty of them at Murten; plenty
at Grandson; there are plenty today. And the first of them all--the very first, earliest banner-bearer
of human freedom in this world--was not a man, but a woman--Stauffacher's wife. There she looms
dim and great, through the haze of the centuries, delivering into her husband's ear that gospel
of revolt which was to bear fruit in the conspiracy of Rutli and the birth of the first free
government the world had ever seen.

From this Victoria Hotel one looks straight across a flat of trifling width to a lofty mountain
barrier, which has a gateway in it shaped like an inverted pyramid. Beyond this gateway arises
the vast bulk of the Jungfrau, a spotless mass of gleaming snow, into the sky. The gateway,
in the dark-colored barrier, makes a strong frame for the great picture. The somber frame and
the glowing snow-pile are startlingly contrasted. It is this frame which concentrates and emphasizes
the glory of the Jungfrau and makes it the most engaging and beguiling and fascinating spectacle
that exists on the earth. There are many mountains of snow that are as lofty as the Jungfrau
and as nobly proportioned, but they lack the fame. They stand at large; they are intruded upon
and elbowed by neighboring domes and summits, and their grandeur is diminished and fails of effect.

It is a good name, Jungfrau--Virgin. Nothing could be whiter; nothing could be purer; nothing
could be saintlier of aspect. At six yesterday evening the great intervening barrier seen through
a faint bluish haze seemed made of air and substanceless, so soft and rich it was, so shimmering
where the wandering lights touched it and so dim where the shadows lay. Apparently it was a
dream stuff, a work of the imagination, nothing real about it. The tint was green, slightly
varying shades of it, but mainly very dark. The sun was down--as far as that barrier was concerned,
but not for the Jungfrau, towering into the heavens beyond the gateway. She was a roaring conflagration
of blinding white.

It is said the Fridolin (the old Fridolin), a new saint, but formerly a missionary, gave the
mountain its gracious name. He was an Irishman, son of an Irish king--there were thirty thousand
kings reigning in County Cork alone in his time, fifteen hundred years ago. It got so that
they could not make a living, there was so much competition and wages got cut so. Some of them
were out of work months at a time, with wife and little children to feed, and not a crust in
the place. At last a particularly severe winter fell upon the country, and hundreds of them
were reduced to mendicancy and were to be seen day after day in the bitterest weather, standing
barefoot in the snow, holding out their crowns for alms. Indeed, they would have been obliged
to emigrate or starve but for a fortunate idea of Prince Fridolin's, who started a labor-union,
the first one in history, and got the great bulk of them to join it. He thus won the general
gratitude, and they wanted to make him emperor--emperor over them all--emperor of County Cork,
but he said, No, walking delegate was good enough for him. For behold! he was modest beyond
his years, and keen as a whip. To this day in Germany and Switzerland, where St. Fridolin is
revered and honored, the peasantry speak of him affectionately as the first walking delegate.

The first walk he took was into France and Germany, missionarying--for missionarying was a
better thing in those days than it is in ours. All you had to do was to cure the savage's sick
daughter by a "miracle"--a miracle like the miracle of Lourdes in our day, for instance--and
immediately that head savage was your convert, and filled to the eyes with a new convert's
enthusiasm. You could sit down and make yourself easy, now. He would take an ax and convert
the rest of the nation himself. Charlemagne was that kind of a walking delegate.

Yes, there were great missionaries in those days, for the methods were sure and the rewards
great. We have no such missionaries now, and no such methods.

But to continue the history of the first walking delegate, if you are interested. I am interested
myself because I have seen his relics in Sackingen, and also the very spot where he worked
his great miracle--the one which won him his sainthood in the papal court a few centuries later.
To have seen these things makes me feel very near to him, almost like a member of the family,
in fact. While wandering about the Continent he arrived at the spot on the Rhine which is now
occupied by Sackingen, and proposed to settle there, but the people warned him off. He appealed
to the king of the Franks, who made him a present of the whole region, people and all. He built
a great cloister there for women and proceeded to teach in it and accumulate more land. There
were two wealthy brothers in the neighborhood, Urso and Landulph. Urso died and Fridolin claimed
his estates. Landulph asked for documents and papers. Fridolin had none to show. He said the
bequest had been made to him by word of mouth. Landulph suggested that he produce a witness
and said it in a way which he thought was very witty, very sarcastic. This shows that he did
not know the walking delegate. Fridolin was not disturbed. He said:

"Appoint your court. I will bring a witness."

The court thus created consisted of fifteen counts and barons. A day was appointed for the
trial of the case. On that day the judges took their seats in state, and proclamation was made
that the court was ready for business. Five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes passed, and
yet no Fridolin appeared. Landulph rose, and was in the act of claiming judgment by default
when a strange clacking sound was heard coming up the stairs. In another moment Fridolin entered
at the door and came walking in a deep hush down the middle aisle, with a tall skeleton stalking
in his rear.

Amazement and terror sat upon every countenance, for everybody suspected that the skeleton
was Urso's. It stopped before the chief judge and raised its bony arm aloft and began to speak,
while all the assembled shuddered, for they could see the words leak out between its ribs. It said:

"Brother, why dost thou disturb my blessed rest and withhold by robbery the gift which I gave
thee for the honor of God?"

It seems a strange thing and most irregular, but the verdict was actually given against Landulph
on the testimony of this wandering rack-heap of unidentified bones. In our day a skeleton would
not be allowed to testify at all, for a skeleton has no moral responsibility, and its word
could not be believed on oath, and this was probably one of them. However, the incident is
valuable as preserving to us a curious sample of the quaint laws of evidence of that remote
time--a time so remote, so far back toward the beginning of original idiocy, that the difference
between a bench of judges and a basket of vegetables was as yet so slight that we may say with
all confidence that it didn't really exist.

During several afternoons I have been engaged in an interesting, maybe useful, piece of work--that
is to say, I have been trying to make the mighty Jungfrau earn her living--earn it in a most
humble sphere, but on a prodigious scale, on a prodigious scale of necessity, for she couldn't
do anything in a small way with her size and style. I have been trying to make her do service
on a stupendous dial and check off the hours as they glide along her pallid face up there against
the sky, and tell the time of day to the populations lying within fifty miles of her and to
the people in the moon, if they have a good telescope there.

Until late in the afternoon the Jungfrau's aspect is that of a spotless desert of snow set
upon edge against the sky. But by mid-afternoon some elevations which rise out of the western
border of the desert, whose presence you perhaps had not detected or suspected up to that time,
began to cast black shadows eastward across the gleaming surface. At first there is only one
shadow; later there are two. Toward 4 P.M. the other day I was gazing and worshiping as usual
when I chanced to notice that shadow No. 1 was beginning to take itself something of the shape
of the human profile. By four the back of the head was good, the military cap was pretty good,
the nose was bold and strong, the upper lip sharp, but not pretty, and there was a great goatee
that shot straight aggressively forward from the chin.

At four-thirty the nose had changed its shape considerably, and the altered slant of the sun
had revealed and made conspicuous a huge buttress or barrier of naked rock which was so located
as to answer very well for a shoulder or coat-collar to this swarthy and indiscreet sweetheart
who had stolen out there right before everybody to pillow his head on the Virgin's white breast
and whisper soft sentimentalities to her in the sensuous music of the crashing ice-domes and
the boom and thunder of the passing avalanche--music very familiar to his ear, for he had heard
it every afternoon at this hour since the day he first came courting this child of the earth,
who lives in the sky, and that day is far, yes--for he was at this pleasant sport before the
Middle Ages drifted by him in the valley; before the Romans marched past, and before the antique
and recordless barbarians fished and hunted here and wondered who he might be, and were probably
afraid of him; and before primeval man himself, just emerged from his four-footed estate, stepped
out upon this plain, first sample of his race, a thousand centuries ago, and cast a glad eye
up there, judging he had found a brother human being and consequently something to kill; and
before the big saurians wallowed here, still some eons earlier. Oh yes, a day so far back that
the eternal son was present to see that first visit; a day so far back that neither tradition
nor history was born yet and a whole weary eternity must come and go before the restless little
creature, of whose face this stupendous Shadow Face was the prophecy, would arrive in the earth
and begin his shabby career and think of a big thing. Oh, indeed yes; when you talk about your
poor Roman and Egyptian day-before-yesterday antiquities, you should choose a time when the
hoary Shadow Face of the Jungfrau is not by. It antedates all antiquities known or imaginable;
for it was here the world itself created the theater of future antiquities. And it is the only
witness with a human face that was there to see the marvel, and remains to us a memorial of it.

By 4:40 P.M. the nose of the shadow is perfect and is beautiful. It is black and is powerfully
marked against the upright canvas of glowing snow, and covers hundreds of acres of that resplendent
surface.

Meantime shadow No. 2 has been creeping out well to the rear of the face west of it--and at
five o'clock has assumed a shape that has rather a poor and rude semblance of a shoe.

Meantime, also, the great Shadow Face has been gradually changing for twenty minutes, and now,
5 P.M., it is becoming a quite fair portrait of Roscoe Conkling. The likeness is there, and
is unmistakable. The goatee is shortened, now, and has an end; formerly it hadn't any, but
ran off eastward and arrived nowhere.

By 6 P.M. the face has dissolved and gone, and the goatee has become what looks like the shadow
of a tower with a pointed roof, and the shoe had turned into what the printers call a "fist"
with a finger pointing.

If I were now imprisoned on a mountain summit a hundred miles northward of this point, and
was denied a timepiece, I could get along well enough from four till six on clear days, for
I could keep trace of the time by the changing shapes of these mighty shadows of the Virgin's
front, the most stupendous dial I am acquainted with, the oldest clock in the world by a couple
of million years.

I suppose I should not have noticed the forms of the shadows if I hadn't the habit of hunting
for faces in the clouds and in mountain crags--a sort of amusement which is very entertaining
even when you don't find any, and brilliantly satisfying when you do. I have searched through
several bushels of photographs of the Jungfrau here, but found only one with the Face in it,
and in this case it was not strictly recognizable as a face, which was evidence that the picture
was taken before four o'clock in the afternoon, and also evidence that all the photographers
have persistently overlooked one of the most fascinating features of the Jungfrau show. I say
fascinating, because if you once detect a human face produced on a great plan by unconscious
nature, you never get tired of watching it. At first you can't make another person see it at
all, but after he has made it out once he can't see anything else afterward.

The King of Greece is a man who goes around quietly enough when off duty. One day this summer
he was traveling in an ordinary first-class compartment, just in his other suit, the one which
he works the realm in when he is at home, and so he was not looking like anybody in particular,
but a good deal like everybody in general. By and by a hearty and healthy German-American got
in and opened up a frank and interesting and sympathetic conversation with him, and asked him
a couple of thousand questions about himself, which the king answered good-naturedly, but in
a more or less indefinite way as to private particulars.

"Where do you live when you are at home?"

"In Greece."

"Greece! Well, now, that is just astonishing! Born there?"

"No."

"Do you speak Greek?"

"Yes."

"Now, ain't that strange! I never expected to live to see that. What is your trade? I mean
how do you get your living? What is your line of business?"

"Well, I hardly know how to answer. I am only a kind of foreman, on a salary; and the business--well,
is a very general kind of business."

"Yes, I understand--general jobbing--little of everything--anything that there's money in."

"That's about it, yes."

"Are you traveling for the house now?"

"Well, partly; but not entirely. Of course I do a stroke of business if it falls in the way--"

"Good! I like that in you! That's me every time. Go on."

"I was only going to say I am off on my vacation now."

"Well that's all right. No harm in that. A man works all the better for a little let-up now
and then. Not that I've been used to having it myself; for I haven't. I reckon this is my first.
I was born in Germany, and when I was a couple of weeks old shipped to America, and I've been
there ever since, and that's sixty-four years by the watch. I'm an American in principle and
a German at heart, and it's the boss combination. Well, how do you get along, as a rule--pretty
fair?"

"I've a rather large family--"

"There, that's it--big family and trying to raise them on a salary. Now, what did you go to
do that for?"

"Well, I thought--"

"Of course you did. You were young and confident and thought you could branch out and make
things go with a whirl, and here you are, you see! But never mind about that. I'm not trying
to discourage you. Dear me! I've been just where you are myself! You've got good grit; there's
good stuff in you, I can see that. You got a wrong start, that's the whole trouble. But you
hold your grip, and we'll see what can be done. Your case ain't half as bad as it might be.
You are going to come out all right--I'm bail for that. Boys and girls?"

"My family? Yes, some of them are boys--"

"And the rest girls. It's just as I expected. But that's all right, and it's better so, anyway.
What are the boys doing--learning a trade?"

"Well, no--I thought--"

"It's a big mistake. It's the biggest mistake you ever made. You see that in your own case.
A man ought always to have a trade to fall back on. Now, I was harness-maker at first. Did
that prevent me from becoming one of the biggest brewers in America? Oh no. I always had the
harness trick to fall back on in rough weather. Now, if you had learned how to make harness--However,
it's too late now; too late. But it's no good plan to cry over spilt milk. But as to the boys,
you see--what's to become of them if anything happens to you?"

"It has been my idea to let the eldest one succeed me--"

"Oh, come! Suppose the firm don't want him?"

"I hadn't thought of that, but--"

"Now, look here; you want to get right down to business and stop dreaming. You are capable
of immense things--man. You can make a perfect success in life. All you want is somebody to
steady you and boost you along on the right road. Do you own anything in the business?"

"No--not exactly; but if I continue to give satisfaction, I suppose I can keep my--"

"Keep your place--yes. Well, don't you depend on anything of the kind. They'll bounce you the
minute you get a little old and worked out; they'll do it sure. Can't you manage somehow to
get into the firm? That's the great thing, you know."

"I think it is doubtful; very doubtful."

"Um--that's bad--yes, and unfair, too. Do you suppose that if I should go there and have a
talk with your people--Look here--do you think you could run a brewery?"

"I have never tried, but I think I could do it after a little familiarity with the business."

The German was silent for some time. He did a good deal of thinking, and the king waited curiously
to see what the result was going to be. Finally the German said:

"My mind's made up. You leave that crowd--you'll never amount to anything there. In these old
countries they never give a fellow a show. Yes, you come over to America--come to my place
in Rochester; bring the family along. You shall have a show in the business and the foremanship,
besides. George--you said your name was George?--I'll make a man of you. I give you my word.
You've never had a chance here, but that's all going to change. By gracious! I'll give you
a lift that'll make your hair curl!"

AT THE SHRINE OF ST. WAGNER

Bayreuth, Aug. 2d, 1891

It was at Nuremberg that we struck the inundation of music-mad strangers that was rolling down
upon Bayreuth. It had been long since we had seen such multitudes of excited and struggling
people. It took a good half-hour to pack them and pair them into the train--and it was the
longest train we have yet seen in Europe. Nuremberg had been witnessing this sort of experience
a couple of times a day for about two weeks. It gives one an impressive sense of the magnitude
of this biennial pilgrimage. For a pilgrimage is what it is. The devotees come from the very
ends of the earth to worship their prophet in his own Kaaba in his own Mecca.

If you are living in New York or San Francisco or Chicago or anywhere else in America, and
you conclude, by the middle of May, that you would like to attend the Bayreuth opera two months
and a half later, you must use the cable and get about it immediately or you will get no seats,
and you must cable for lodgings, too. Then if you are lucky you will get seats in the last
row and lodgings in the fringe of the town. If you stop to write you will get nothing. There
were plenty of people in Nuremberg when we passed through who had come on pilgrimage without
first securing seats and lodgings. They had found neither in Bayreuth; they had walked Bayreuth
streets a while in sorrow, then had gone to Nuremberg and found neither beds nor standing room,
and had walked those quaint streets all night, waiting for the hotels to open and empty their
guests into trains, and so make room for these, their defeated brethren and sisters in the
faith. They had endured from thirty to forty hours' railroading on the continent of Europe--with
all which that implies of worry, fatigue, and financial impoverishment--and all they had got
and all they were to get for it was handiness and accuracy in kicking themselves, acquired
by practice in the back streets of the two towns when other people were in bed; for back they
must go over that unspeakable journey with their pious mission unfulfilled. These humiliated
outcasts had the frowsy and unbrushed and apologetic look of wet cats, and their eyes were
glazed with drowsiness, their bodies were adroop from crown to sole, and all kind-hearted people
refrained from asking them if they had been to Bayreuth and failed to connect, as knowing they
would lie.

We reached here (Bayreuth) about mid-afternoon of a rainy Saturday. We were of the wise, and
had secured lodgings and opera seats months in advance.

I am not a musical critic, and did not come here to write essays about the operas and deliver
judgment upon their merits. The little children of Bayreuth could do that with a finer sympathy
and a broader intelligence than I. I only care to bring four or five pilgrims to the operas,
pilgrims able to appreciate them and enjoy them. What I write about the performance to put
in my odd time would be offered to the public as merely a cat's view of a king, and not of
didactic value.

Next day, which was Sunday, we left for the opera-house--that is to say, the Wagner temple--a
little after the middle of the afternoon. The great building stands all by itself, grand and
lonely, on a high ground outside the town. We were warned that if we arrived after four o'clock
we should be obliged to pay two dollars and a half extra by way of fine. We saved that; and
it may be remarked here that this is the only opportunity that Europe offers of saving money.
There was a big crowd in the grounds about the building, and the ladies' dresses took the sun
with fine effect. I do not mean to intimate that the ladies were in full dress, for that was
not so. The dresses were pretty, but neither sex was in evening dress.

The interior of the building is simple--severely so; but there is no occasion for color and
decoration, since the people sit in the dark. The auditorium has the shape of a keystone, with
the stage at the narrow end. There is an aisle on each side, but no aisle in the body of the
house. Each row of seats extends in an unbroken curve from one side of the house to the other.
There are seven entrance doors on each side of the theater and four at the butt, eighteen doors
to admit and emit 1,650 persons. The number of the particular door by which you are to enter
the house or leave it is printed on your ticket, and you can use no door but that one. Thus,
crowding and confusion are impossible. Not so many as a hundred people use any one door. This
is better than having the usual (and useless) elaborate fireproof arrangements. It is the model
theater of the world. It can be emptied while the second hand of a watch makes its circuit.
It would be entirely safe, even if it were built of lucifer matches.

If your seat is near the center of a row and you enter late you must work your way along a
rank of about twenty-five ladies and gentlemen to get to it. Yet this causes no trouble, for
everybody stands up until all the seats are full, and the filling is accomplished in a very
few minutes. Then all sit down, and you have a solid mass of fifteen hundred heads, making
a steep cellar-door slant from the rear of the house down to the stage.

All the lights were turned low, so low that the congregation sat in a deep and solemn gloom.
The funereal rustling of dresses and the low buzz of conversation began to die swiftly down,
and presently not the ghost of a sound was left. This profound and increasingly impressive
stillness endured for some time--the best preparation for music, spectacle, or speech conceivable.
I should think our show people would have invented or imported that simple and impressive device
for securing and solidifying the attention of an audience long ago; instead of which there
continue to this day to open a performance against a deadly competition in the form of noise,
confusion, and a scattered interest.

Finally, out of darkness and distance and mystery soft rich notes rose upon the stillness,
and from his grave the dead magician began to weave his spells about his disciples and steep
their souls in his enchantments. There was something strangely impressive in the fancy which
kept intruding itself that the composer was conscious in his grave of what was going on here,
and that these divine souls were the clothing of thoughts which were at this moment passing
through his brain, and not recognized and familiar ones which had issued from it at some former
time.

The entire overture, long as it was, was played to a dark house with the curtain down. It was
exquisite; it was delicious. But straightway thereafter, or course, came the singing, and it
does seem to me that nothing can make a Wagner opera absolutely perfect and satisfactory to
the untutored but to leave out the vocal parts. I wish I could see a Wagner opera done in pantomime
once. Then one would have the lovely orchestration unvexed to listen to and bathe his spirit
in, and the bewildering beautiful scenery to intoxicate his eyes with, and the dumb acting
couldn't mar these pleasures, because there isn't often anything in the Wagner opera that one
would call by such a violent name as acting; as a rule all you would see would be a couple
of silent people, one of them standing still, the other catching flies. Of course I do not
really mean that he would be catching flies; I only mean that the usual operatic gestures which
consist in reaching first one hand out into the air and then the other might suggest the sport
I speak of if the operator attended strictly to business and uttered no sound.

This present opera was "Parsifal." Madame Wagner does not permit its representation anywhere
but in Bayreuth. The first act of the three occupied two hours, and I enjoyed that in spite
of the singing.

I trust that I know as well as anybody that singing is one of the most entrancing and bewitching
and moving and eloquent of all the vehicles invented by man for the conveying of feeling; but
it seems to me that the chief virtue in song is melody, air, tune, rhythm, or what you please
to call it, and that when this feature is absent what remains is a picture with the color left
out. I was not able to detect in the vocal parts of "Parsifal" anything that might with confidence
be called rhythm or tune or melody; one person performed at a time--and a long time, too--often
in a noble, and always in a high-toned, voice; but he only pulled out long notes, then some
short ones, then another long one, then a sharp, quick, peremptory bark or two--and so on and
so on; and when he was done you saw that the information which he had conveyed had not compensated
for the disturbance. Not always, but pretty often. If two of them would but put in a duet occasionally
and blend the voices; but no, they don't do that. The great master, who knew so well how to
make a hundred instruments rejoice in unison and pour out their souls in mingled and melodious
tides of delicious sound, deals only in barren solos when he puts in the vocal parts. It may
be that he was deep, and only added the singing to his operas for the sake of the contrast
it would make with the music. Singing! It does seem the wrong name to apply to it. Strictly
described, it is a practicing of difficult and unpleasant intervals, mainly. An ignorant person
gets tired of listening to gymnastic intervals in the long run, no matter how pleasant they
may be. In "Parsifal" there is a hermit named Gurnemanz who stands on the stage in one spot
and practices by the hour, while first one and then another character of the cast endures what
he can of it and then retires to die.

During the evening there was an intermission of three-quarters of an hour after the first act
and one an hour long after the second. In both instances the theater was totally emptied. People
who had previously engaged tables in the one sole eating-house were able to put in their time
very satisfactorily; the other thousand went hungry. The opera was concluded at ten in the
evening or a little later. When we reached home we had been gone more than seven hours. Seven
hours at five dollars a ticket is almost too much for the money.

While browsing about the front yard among the crowd between the acts I encountered twelve or
fifteen friends from different parts of America, and those of them who were most familiar with
Wagner said that "Parsifal" seldom pleased at first, but that after one had heard it several
times it was almost sure to become a favorite. It seemed impossible, but it was true, for the
statement came from people whose word was not to be doubted.

And I gathered some further information. On the ground I found part of a German musical magazine,
and in it a letter written by Uhlic thirty-three years ago, in which he defends the scorned
and abused Wagner against people like me, who found fault with the comprehensive absence of
what our kind regards as singing. Uhlic says Wagner despised "JENE PLAPPERUDE MUSIC," and therefore
"runs, trills, and SCHNORKEL are discarded by him." I don't know what a SCHNORKEL is, but now
that I know it has been left out of these operas I never have missed so much in my life. And
Uhlic further says that Wagner's song is true: that it is "simply emphasized intoned speech."
That certainly describes it--in "Parsifal" and some of the operas; and if I understand Uhlic's
elaborate German he apologizes for the beautiful airs in "Tannhauser." Very well; now that
Wagner and I understand each other, perhaps we shall get along better, and I shall stop calling
Waggner, on the American plan, and thereafter call him Waggner as per German custom, for I
feel entirely friendly now. The minute we get reconciled to a person, how willing we are to
throw aside little needless punctilios and pronounce his name right!

Of course I came home wondering why people should come from all corners of America to hear
these operas, when we have lately had a season or two of them in New York with these same singers
in the several parts, and possibly this same orchestra. I resolved to think that out at all
hazards.

TUESDAY.--Yesterday they played the only operatic favorite I have ever had--an opera which
has always driven me mad with ignorant delight whenever I have heard it--"Tannhauser." I heard
it first when I was a youth; I heard it last in the last German season in New York. I was busy
yesterday and I did not intend to go, knowing I should have another "Tannhauser" opportunity
in a few days; but after five o'clock I found myself free and walked out to the opera-house
and arrived about the beginning of the second act. My opera ticket admitted me to the grounds
in front, past the policeman and the chain, and I thought I would take a rest on a bench for
an hour and two and wait for the third act.

In a moment or so the first bugles blew, and the multitude began to crumble apart and melt
into the theater. I will explain that this bugle-call is one of the pretty features here. You
see, the theater is empty, and hundreds of the audience are a good way off in the feeding-house;
the first bugle-call is blown about a quarter of an hour before time for the curtain to rise.
This company of buglers, in uniform, march out with military step and send out over the landscape
a few bars of the theme of the approaching act, piercing the distances with the gracious notes;
then they march to the other entrance and repeat. Presently they do this over again. Yesterday
only about two hundred people were still left in front of the house when the second call was
blown; in another half-minute they would have been in the house, but then a thing happened
which delayed them--the only solitary thing in this world which could be relied on with certainty
to accomplish it, I suppose--an imperial princess appeared in the balcony above them. They
stopped dead in their tracks and began to gaze in a stupor of gratitude and satisfaction. The
lady presently saw that she must disappear or the doors would be closed upon these worshipers,
so she returned to her box. This daughter-in-law of an emperor was pretty; she had a kind face;
she was without airs; she is known to be full of common human sympathies. There are many kinds
of princesses, but this kind is the most harmful of all, for wherever they go they reconcile
people to monarchy and set back the clock of progress. The valuable princes, the desirable
princes, are the czars and their sort. By their mere dumb presence in the world they cover
with derision every argument that can be invented in favor of royalty by the most ingenious
casuist. In his time the husband of this princess was valuable. He led a degraded life, he
ended it with his own hand in circumstances and surroundings of a hideous sort, and was buried
like a god.

In the opera-house there is a long loft back of the audience, a kind of open gallery, in which
princes are displayed. It is sacred to them; it is the holy of holies. As soon as the filling
of the house is about complete the standing multitude turn and fix their eyes upon the princely
layout and gaze mutely and longingly and adoringly and regretfully like sinners looking into
heaven. They become rapt, unconscious, steeped in worship. There is no spectacle anywhere that
is more pathetic than this. It is worth crossing many oceans to see. It is somehow not the
same gaze that people rivet upon a Victor Hugo, or Niagara, or the bones of the mastodon, or
the guillotine of the Revolution, or the great pyramid, or distant Vesuvius smoking in the
sky, or any man long celebrated to you by his genius and achievements, or thing long celebrated
to you by the praises of books and pictures--no, that gaze is only the gaze of intense curiosity,
interest, wonder, engaged in drinking delicious deep draughts that taste good all the way down
and appease and satisfy the thirst of a lifetime. Satisfy it--that is the word. Hugo and the
mastodon will still have a degree of intense interest thereafter when encountered, but never
anything approaching the ecstasy of that first view. The interest of a prince is different.
It may be envy, it may be worship, doubtless it is a mixture of both--and it does not satisfy
its thirst with one view, or even noticeably diminish it. Perhaps the essence of the thing
is the value which men attach to a valuable something which has come by luck and not been earned.
A dollar picked up in the road is more satisfaction to you than the ninety-and-nine which you
had to work for, and money won at faro or in stocks snuggles into your heart in the same way.
A prince picks up grandeur, power, and a permanent holiday and gratis support by a pure accident,
the accident of birth, and he stands always before the grieved eye of poverty and obscurity
a monumental representative of luck. And then--supremest value of all-his is the only high
fortune on the earth which is secure. The commercial millionaire may become a beggar; the illustrious
statesman can make a vital mistake and be dropped and forgotten; the illustrious general can
lose a decisive battle and with it the consideration of men; but once a prince always a prince--that
is to say, an imitation god, and neither hard fortune nor an infamous character nor an addled
brain nor the speech of an ass can undeify him. By common consent of all the nations and all
the ages the most valuable thing in this world is the homage of men, whether deserved or undeserved.
It follows without doubt or question, then, that the most desirable position possible is that
of a prince. And I think it also follows that the so-called usurpations with which history
is littered are the most excusable misdemeanors which men have committed. To usurp a usurpation--that
is all it amounts to, isn't it?

A prince is not to us what he is to a European, of course. We have not been taught to regard
him as a god, and so one good look at him is likely to so nearly appease our curiosity as to
make him an object of no greater interest the next time. We want a fresh one. But it is not
so with the European. I am quite sure of it. The same old one will answer; he never stales.
Eighteen years ago I was in London and I called at an Englishman's house on a bleak and foggy
and dismal December afternoon to visit his wife and married daughter by appointment. I waited
half an hour and then they arrived, frozen. They explained that they had been delayed by an
unlooked-for circumstance: while passing in the neighborhood of Marlborough House they saw
a crowd gathering and were told that the Prince of Wales was about to drive out, so they stopped
to get a sight of him. They had waited half an hour on the sidewalk, freezing with the crowd,
but were disappointed at last--the Prince had changed his mind. I said, with a good deal of
surprise, "Is it possible that you two have lived in London all your lives and have never seen
the Prince of Wales?"

Apparently it was their turn to be surprised, for they exclaimed: "What an idea! Why, we have
seen him hundreds of times."

They had seem him hundreds of times, yet they had waited half an hour in the gloom and the
bitter cold, in the midst of a jam of patients from the same asylum, on the chance of seeing
him again. It was a stupefying statement, but one is obliged to believe the English, even when
they say a thing like that. I fumbled around for a remark, and got out this one:

"I can't understand it at all. If I had never seen General Grant I doubt if I would do that
even to get a sight of him." With a slight emphasis on the last word.

Their blank faces showed that they wondered where the parallel came in. Then they said, blankly:
"Of course not. He is only a President."

It is doubtless a fact that a prince is a permanent interest, an interest not subject to deterioration.
The general who was never defeated, the general who never held a council of war, the only general
who ever commanded a connected battle-front twelve hundred miles long, the smith who welded
together the broken parts of a great republic and re-established it where it is quite likely
to outlast all the monarchies present and to come, was really a person of no serious consequence
to these people. To them, with their training, my General was only a man, after all, while
their Prince was clearly much more than that--a being of a wholly unsimilar construction and
constitution, and being of no more blood and kinship with men than are the serene eternal lights
of the firmament with the poor dull tallow candles of commerce that sputter and die and leave
nothing behind but a pinch of ashes and a stink.

I saw the last act of "Tannhauser." I sat in the gloom and the deep stillness, waiting--one
minute, two minutes, I do not know exactly how long--then the soft music of the hidden orchestra
began to breathe its rich, long sighs out from under the distant stage, and by and by the drop-curtain
parted in the middle and was drawn softly aside, disclosing the twilighted wood and a wayside
shrine, with a white-robed girl praying and a man standing near. Presently that noble chorus
of men's voices was heard approaching, and from that moment until the closing of the curtain
it was music, just music--music to make one drunk with pleasure, music to make one take scrip
and staff and beg his way round the globe to hear it.

To such as are intending to come here in the Wagner season next year I wish to say, bring your
dinner-pail with you. If you do, you will never cease to be thankful. If you do not, you will
find it a hard fight to save yourself from famishing in Bayreuth. Bayreuth is merely a large
village, and has no very large hotels or eating-houses. The principal inns are the Golden Anchor
and the Sun. At either of these places you can get an excellent meal--no, I mean you can go
there and see other people get it. There is no charge for this. The town is littered with restaurants,
but they are small and bad, and they are overdriven with custom. You must secure a table hours
beforehand, and often when you arrive you will find somebody occupying it. We have had this
experience. We have had a daily scramble for life; and when I say we, I include shoals of people.
I have the impression that the only people who do not have to scramble are the veterans--the
disciples who have been here before and know the ropes. I think they arrive about a week before
the first opera, and engage all the tables for the season. My tribe had tried all kinds of
places--some outside of the town, a mile or two--and have captured only nibblings and odds
and ends, never in any instance a complete and satisfying meal. Digestible? No, the reverse.
These odds and ends are going to serve as souvenirs of Bayreuth, and in that regard their value
is not to be overestimated. Photographs fade, bric-a-brac gets lost, busts of Wagner get broken,
but once you absorb a Bayreuth-restaurant meal it is your possession and your property until
the time comes to embalm the rest of you. Some of these pilgrims here become, in effect, cabinets;
cabinets of souvenirs of Bayreuth. It is believed among scientists that you could examine the
crop of a dead Bayreuth pilgrim anywhere in the earth and tell where he came from. But I like
this ballast. I think a "Hermitage" scrap-up at eight in the evening, when all the famine-breeders
have been there and laid in their mementoes and gone, is the quietest thing you can lay on
your keelson except gravel.

THURSDAY.--They keep two teams of singers in stock for the chief roles, and one of these is
composed of the most renowned artists in the world, with Materna and Alvary in the lead. I
suppose a double team is necessary; doubtless a single team would die of exhaustion in a week,
for all the plays last from four in the afternoon till ten at night. Nearly all the labor falls
upon the half-dozen head singers, and apparently they are required to furnish all the noise
they can for the money. If they feel a soft, whispery, mysterious feeling they are required
to open out and let the public know it. Operas are given only on Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays,
and Thursdays, with three days of ostensible rest per week, and two teams to do the four operas;
but the ostensible rest is devoted largely to rehearsing. It is said that the off days are
devoted to rehearsing from some time in the morning till ten at night. Are there two orchestras
also? It is quite likely, since there are one hundred and ten names in the orchestra list.

Yesterday the opera was "Tristan and Isolde." I have seen all sorts of audiences--at theaters,
operas, concerts, lectures, sermons, funerals--but none which was twin to the Wagner audience
of Bayreuth for fixed and reverential attention. Absolute attention and petrified retention
to the end of an act of the attitude assumed at the beginning of it. You detect no movement
in the solid mass of heads and shoulders. You seem to sit with the dead in the gloom of a tomb.
You know that they are being stirred to their profoundest depths; that there are times when
they want to rise and wave handkerchiefs and shout their approbation, and times when tears
are running down their faces, and it would be a relief to free their pent emotions in sobs
or screams; yet you hear not one utterance till the curtain swings together and the closing
strains have slowly faded out and died; then the dead rise with one impulse and shake the building
with their applause. Every seat is full in the first act; there is not a vacant one in the
last. If a man would be conspicuous, let him come here and retire from the house in the midst
of an act. It would make him celebrated.

This audience reminds me of nothing I have ever seen and of nothing I have read about except
the city in the Arabian tale where all the inhabitants have been turned to brass and the traveler
finds them after centuries mute, motionless, and still retaining the attitudes which they last
knew in life. Here the Wagner audience dress as they please, and sit in the dark and worship
in silence. At the Metropolitan in New York they sit in a glare, and wear their showiest harness;
they hum airs, they squeak fans, they titter, and they gabble all the time. In some of the
boxes the conversation and laughter are so loud as to divide the attention of the house with
the stage. In large measure the Metropolitan is a show-case for rich fashionables who are not
trained in Wagnerian music and have no reverence for it, but who like to promote art and show
their clothes.

Can that be an agreeable atmosphere to persons in whom this music produces a sort of divine
ecstasy and to whom its creator is a very deity, his stage a temple, the works of his brain
and hands consecrated things, and the partaking of them with eye and ear a sacred solemnity?
Manifestly, no. Then, perhaps the temporary expatriation, the tedious traversing of seas and
continents, the pilgrimage to Bayreuth stands explained. These devotees would worship in an
atmosphere of devotion. It is only here that they can find it without fleck or blemish or any
worldly pollution. In this remote village there are no sights to see, there is no newspaper
to intrude the worries of the distant world, there is nothing going on, it is always Sunday.
The pilgrim wends to his temple out of town, sits out his moving service, returns to his bed
with his heart and soul and his body exhausted by long hours of tremendous emotion, and he
is in no fit condition to do anything but to lie torpid and slowly gather back life and strength
for the next service. This opera of "Tristan and Isolde" last night broke the hearts of all
witnesses who were of the faith, and I know of some who have heard of many who could not sleep
after it, but cried the night away. I feel strongly out of place here. Sometimes I feel like
the sane person in a community of the mad; sometimes I feel like the one blind man where all
others see; the one groping savage in the college of the learned, and always, during service,
I feel like a heretic in heaven.

But by no means do I ever overlook or minify the fact that this is one of the most extraordinary
experiences of my life. I have never seen anything like this before. I have never seen anything
so great and fine and real as this devotion.

FRIDAY.--Yesterday's opera was "Parsifal" again. The others went and they show marked advance
in appreciation; but I went hunting for relics and reminders of the Margravine Wilhelmina,
she of the imperishable "Memoirs." I am properly grateful to her for her (unconscious) satire
upon monarchy and nobility, and therefore nothing which her hand touched or her eye looked
upon is indifferent to me. I am her pilgrim; the rest of this multitude here are Wagner's.

TUESDAY.--I have seen my last two operas; my season is ended, and we cross over into Bohemia
this afternoon. I was supposing that my musical regeneration was accomplished and perfected,
because I enjoyed both of these operas, singing and all, and, moreover, one of them was "Parsifal,"
but the experts have disenchanted me. They say:

"Singing! That wasn't singing; that was the wailing, screeching of third-rate obscurities,
palmed off on us in the interest of economy."

Well, I ought to have recognized the sign--the old, sure sign that has never failed me in matters
of art. Whenever I enjoy anything in art it means that it is mighty poor. The private knowledge
of this fact has saved me from going to pieces with enthusiasm in front of many and many a
chromo. However, my base instinct does bring me profit sometimes; I was the only man out of
thirty-two hundred who got his money back on those two operas.

WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS

Is it true that the sun of a man's mentality touches noon at forty and then begins to wane
toward setting? Doctor Osler is charged with saying so. Maybe he said it, maybe he didn't;
I don't know which it is. But if he said it, I can point him to a case which proves his rule.
Proves it by being an exception to it. To this place I nominate Mr. Howells.

I read his VENETIAN DAYS about forty years ago. I compare it with his paper on Machiavelli
in a late number of HARPER, and I cannot find that his English has suffered any impairment.
For forty years his English has been to me a continual delight and astonishment. In the sustained
exhibition of certain great qualities--clearness, compression, verbal exactness, and unforced
and seemingly unconscious felicity of phrasing--he is, in my belief, without his peer in the
English-writing world. SUSTAINED. I entrench myself behind that protecting word. There are
others who exhibit those great qualities as greatly as he does, but only by intervaled distributions
of rich moonlight, with stretches of veiled and dimmer landscape between; whereas Howells's
moon sails cloudless skies all night and all the nights.

In the matter of verbal exactness Mr. Howells has no superior, I suppose. He seems to be almost
always able to find that elusive and shifty grain of gold, the RIGHT WORD. Others have to put
up with approximations, more or less frequently; he has better luck. To me, the others are
miners working with the gold-pan--of necessity some of the gold washes over and escapes; whereas,
in my fancy, he is quicksilver raiding down a riffle--no grain of the metal stands much chance
of eluding him. A powerful agent is the right word: it lights the reader's way and makes it
plain; a close approximation to it will answer, and much traveling is done in a well-enough
fashion by its help, but we do not welcome it and applaud it and rejoice in it as we do when
THE right one blazes out on us. Whenever we come upon one of those intensely right words in
a book or a newspaper the resulting effect is physical as well as spiritual, and electrically
prompt: it tingles exquisitely around through the walls of the mouth and tastes as tart and
crisp and good as the autumn-butter that creams the sumac-berry. One has no time to examine
the word and vote upon its rank and standing, the automatic recognition of its supremacy is
so immediate. There is a plenty of acceptable literature which deals largely in approximations,
but it may be likened to a fine landscape seen through the rain; the right word would dismiss
the rain, then you would see it better. It doesn't rain when Howells is at work.

And where does he get the easy and effortless flow of his speech? and its cadenced and undulating
rhythm? and its architectural felicities of construction, its graces of expression, its pemmican
quality of compression, and all that? Born to him, no doubt. All in shining good order in the
beginning, all extraordinary; and all just as shining, just as extraordinary today, after forty
years of diligent wear and tear and use. He passed his fortieth year long and long ago; but
I think his English of today--his perfect English, I wish to say--can throw down the glove
before his English of that antique time and not be afraid.

I will got back to the paper on Machiavelli now, and ask the reader to examine this passage
from it which I append. I do not mean examine it in a bird's-eye way; I mean search it, study
it. And, of course, read it aloud. I may be wrong, still it is my conviction that one cannot
get out of finely wrought literature all that is in it by reading it mutely:

Mr. Dyer is rather of the opinion, first luminously suggested by Macaulay, that Machiavelli
was in earnest, but must not be judged as a political moralist of our time and race would be
judged. He thinks that Machiavelli was in earnest, as none but an idealist can be, and he is
the first to imagine him an idealist immersed in realities, who involuntarily transmutes the
events under his eye into something like the visionary issues of reverie. The Machiavelli whom
he depicts does not cease to be politically a republican and socially a just man because he
holds up an atrocious despot like Caesar Borgia as a mirror for rulers. What Machiavelli beheld
round him in Italy was a civic disorder in which there was oppression without statecraft, and
revolt without patriotism. When a miscreant like Borgia appeared upon the scene and reduced
both tyrants and rebels to an apparent quiescence, he might very well seem to such a dreamer
the savior of society whom a certain sort of dreamers are always looking for. Machiavelli was
no less honest when he honored the diabolical force than Carlyle was when at different times
he extolled the strong man who destroys liberty in creating order. But Carlyle has only just
ceased to be mistaken for a reformer, while it is still Machiavelli's hard fate to be so trammeled
in his material that his name stands for whatever is most malevolent and perfidious in human
nature.

You see how easy and flowing it is; how unvexed by ruggednesses, clumsinesses, broken meters;
how simple and--so far as you or I can make out--unstudied; how clear, how limpid, how understandable,
how unconfused by cross-currents, eddies, undertows; how seemingly unadorned, yet is all adornment,
like the lily-of-the-valley; and how compressed, how compact, without a complacency-signal
hung out anywhere to call attention to it.

There are twenty-three lines in the quoted passage. After reading it several times aloud, one
perceives that a good deal of matter is crowded into that small space. I think it is a model
of compactness. When I take its materials apart and work them over and put them together in
my way, I find I cannot crowd the result back into the same hole, there not being room enough.
I find it a case of a woman packing a man's trunk: he can get the things out, but he can't
ever get them back again.

The proffered paragraph is a just and fair sample; the rest of the article is as compact as
it is; there are no waste words. The sample is just in other ways: limpid, fluent, graceful,
and rhythmical as it is, it holds no superiority in these respects over the rest of the essay.
Also, the choice phrasing noticeable in the sample is not lonely; there is a plenty of its
kin distributed through the other paragraphs. With a hundred words to do it with, the literary
artisan could catch that airy thought and tie it down and reduce it to a concrete condition,
visible, substantial, understandable and all right, like a cabbage; but the artist does it
with twenty, and the result is a flower.

The quoted phrase, like a thousand others that have come from the same source, has the quality
of certain scraps of verse which take hold of us and stay in our memories, we do not understand
why, at first: all the words being the right words, none of them is conspicuous, and so they
all seem inconspicuous, therefore we wonder what it is about them that makes their message
take hold.

     The mossy marbles rest
     On the lips that he has prest
     In their bloom,
     And the names he loved to hear
     Have been carved for many a year
     On the tomb.

It is like a dreamy strain of moving music, with no sharp notes in it. The words are all "right"
words, and all the same size. We do not notice it at first. We get the effect, it goes straight
home to us, but we do not know why. It is when the right words are conspicuous that they thunder:

The glory that was Greece and the grandeur that was Rome!

When I got back from Howells old to Howells young I find him arranging and clustering English
words well, but not any better than now. He is not more felicitous in concreting abstractions
now than he was in translating, then, the visions of the eyes of flesh into words that reproduced
their forms and colors:

In Venetian streets they give the fallen snow no rest. It is at once shoveled into the canals
by hundreds of half-naked FACCHINI; and now in St. Mark's Place the music of innumerable shovels
smote upon my ear; and I saw the shivering legion of poverty as it engaged the elements in
a struggle for the possession of the Piazza. But the snow continued to fall, and through the
twilight of the descending flakes all this toil and encountered looked like that weary kind
of effort in dreams, when the most determined industry seems only to renew the task.

The spirit of Venice is there: of a city where Age and Decay, fagged with distributing damage
and repulsiveness among the other cities of the planet in accordance with the policy and business
of their profession, come for rest and play between seasons, and treat themselves to the luxury
and relaxation of sinking the shop and inventing and squandering charms all about, instead
of abolishing such as they find, as it their habit when not on vacation.

In the working season they do business in Boston sometimes, and a character in THE UNDISCOVERED
COUNTRY takes accurate note of pathetic effects wrought by them upon the aspects of a street
of once dignified and elegant homes whose occupants have moved away and left them a prey to
neglect and gradual ruin and progressive degradation; a descent which reaches bottom at last,
when the street becomes a roost for humble professionals of the faith-cure and fortune-telling
sort.

What a queer, melancholy house, what a queer, melancholy street! I don't think I was ever in
a street before when quite so many professional ladies, with English surnames, preferred Madam
to Mrs. on their door-plates. And the poor old place has such a desperately conscious air of
going to the deuce. Every house seems to wince as you go by, and button itself up to the chin
for fear you should find out it had no shirt on--so to speak. I don't know what's the reason,
but these material tokens of a social decay afflict me terribly; a tipsy woman isn't dreadfuler
than a haggard old house, that's once been a home, in a street like this.

Mr. Howells's pictures are not mere stiff, hard, accurate photographs; they are photographs
with feeling in them, and sentiment, photographs taken in a dream, one might say.

As concerns his humor, I will not try to say anything, yet I would try, if I had the words
that might approximately reach up to its high place. I do not think any one else can play with
humorous fancies so gracefully and delicately and deliciously as he does, nor has so many to
play with, nor can come so near making them look as if they were doing the playing themselves
and he was not aware that they were at it. For they are unobtrusive, and quiet in their ways,
and well conducted. His is a humor which flows softly all around about and over and through
the mesh of the page, pervasive, refreshing, health-giving, and makes no more show and no more
noise than does the circulation of the blood.

There is another thing which is contentingly noticeable in Mr. Howells's books. That is his
"stage directions"--those artifices which authors employ to throw a kind of human naturalness
around a scene and a conversation, and help the reader to see the one and get at meanings in
the other which might not be perceived if entrusted unexplained to the bare words of the talk.
Some authors overdo the stage directions, they elaborate them quite beyond necessity; they
spend so much time and take up so much room in telling us how a person said a thing and how
he looked and acted when he said it that we get tired and vexed and wish he hadn't said it
all. Other authors' directions are brief enough, but it is seldom that the brevity contains
either wit or information. Writers of this school go in rags, in the matter of state directions;
the majority of them having nothing in stock but a cigar, a laugh, a blush, and a bursting
into tears. In their poverty they work these sorry things to the bone. They say:

"... replied Alfred, flipping the ash from his cigar." (This explains nothing; it only wastes
space.)

"... responded Richard, with a laugh." (There was nothing to laugh about; there never is. The
writer puts it in from habit--automatically; he is paying no attention to his work; or he would
see that there is nothing to laugh at; often, when a remark is unusually and poignantly flat
and silly, he tries to deceive the reader by enlarging the stage direction and making Richard
break into "frenzies of uncontrollable laughter." This makes the reader sad.)

"... murmured Gladys, blushing." (This poor old shop-worn blush is a tiresome thing. We get
so we would rather Gladys would fall out of the book and break her neck than do it again. She
is always doing it, and usually irrelevantly. Whenever it is her turn to murmur she hangs out
her blush; it is the only thing she's got. In a little while we hate her, just as we do Richard.)

"... repeated Evelyn, bursting into tears." (This kind keep a book damp all the time. They
can't say a thing without crying. They cry so much about nothing that by and by when they have
something to cry ABOUT they have gone dry; they sob, and fetch nothing; we are not moved. We
are only glad.)

They gavel me, these stale and overworked stage directions, these carbon films that got burnt
out long ago and cannot now carry any faintest thread of light. It would be well if they could
be relieved from duty and flung out in the literary back yard to rot and disappear along with
the discarded and forgotten "steeds" and "halidomes" and similar stage-properties once so dear
to our grandfathers. But I am friendly to Mr. Howells's stage directions; more friendly to
them than to any one else's, I think. They are done with a competent and discriminating art,
and are faithful to the requirements of a state direction's proper and lawful office, which
is to inform. Sometimes they convey a scene and its conditions so well that I believe I could
see the scene and get the spirit and meaning of the accompanying dialogue if some one would
read merely the stage directions to me and leave out the talk. For instance, a scene like this,
from THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY:

"... and she laid her arms with a beseeching gesture on her father's shoulder."

"... she answered, following his gesture with a glance."

"... she said, laughing nervously."

"... she asked, turning swiftly upon him that strange, searching glance."

"... she answered, vaguely."

"... she reluctantly admitted."

"... but her voice died wearily away, and she stood looking into his face with puzzled entreaty."

Mr. Howells does not repeat his forms, and does not need to; he can invent fresh ones without
limit. It is mainly the repetition over and over again, by the third-rates, of worn and commonplace
and juiceless forms that makes their novels such a weariness and vexation to us, I think. We
do not mind one or two deliveries of their wares, but as we turn the pages over and keep on
meeting them we presently get tired of them and wish they would do other things for a change.

"... replied Alfred, flipping the ash from his cigar."

"... responded Richard, with a laugh."

"... murmured Gladys, blushing."

"... repeated Evelyn, bursting into tears."

"... replied the Earl, flipping the ash from his cigar."

"... responded the undertaker, with a laugh."

"... murmured the chambermaid, blushing."

"... repeated the burglar, bursting into tears."

"... replied the conductor, flipping the ash from his cigar."

"... responded Arkwright, with a laugh."

"... murmured the chief of police, blushing."

"... repeated the house-cat, bursting into tears."

And so on and so on; till at last it ceases to excite. I always notice stage directions, because
they fret me and keep me trying to get out of their way, just as the automobiles do. At first;
then by and by they become monotonous and I get run over.

Mr. Howells has done much work, and the spirit of it is as beautiful as the make of it. I have
held him in admiration and affection so many years that I know by the number of those years
that he is old now; but his heart isn't, nor his pen; and years do not count. Let him have
plenty of them; there is profit in them for us.

ENGLISH AS SHE IS TAUGHT

In the appendix to Croker's Boswell's Johnson one finds this anecdote:

CATO'S SOLILOQUY.--One day Mrs. Gastrel set a little girl to repeat to him (Dr. Samuel Johnson)
Cato's Soliloquy, which she went through very correctly. The Doctor, after a pause, asked the
child:

"What was to bring Cato to an end?"

She said it was a knife.

"No, my dear, it was not so."

"My aunt Polly said it was a knife."

"Why, Aunt Polly's knife MAY DO, but it was a DAGGER, my dear."

He then asked her the meaning of "bane and antidote," which she was unable to give. Mrs. Gastrel
said:

"You cannot expect so young a child to know the meaning of such words."

He then said:

"My dear, how many pence are there in SIXPENCE?"

"I cannot tell, sir," was the half-terrified reply.

On this, addressing himself to Mrs. Gastrel, he said:

"Now, my dear lady, can anything be more ridiculous than to teach a child Cato's Soliloquy,
who does not know how many pence there are in a sixpence?"

In a lecture before the Royal Geographical Society Professor Ravenstein quoted the following
list of frantic questions, and said that they had been asked in an examination:

Mention all names of places in the world derived from Julius Caesar or Augustus Caesar.

Where are the following rivers: Pisuerga, Sakaria, Guadalete, Jalon, Mulde?

All you know of the following: Machacha, Pilmo, Schebulos, Crivoscia, Basces, Mancikert, Taxhem,
Citeaux, Meloria, Zutphen.

The highest peaks of the Karakorum range.

The number of universities in Prussia.

Why are the tops of mountains continually covered with snow (sic)?

Name the length and breadth of the streams of lava which issued from the Skaptar Jokul in the
eruption of 1783.

That list would oversize nearly anybody's geographical knowledge. Isn't it reasonably possible
that in our schools many of the questions in all studies are several miles ahead of where the
pupil is?--that he is set to struggle with things that are ludicrously beyond his present reach,
hopelessly beyond his present strength? This remark in passing, and by way of text; now I come
to what I was going to say.

I have just now fallen upon a darling literary curiosity. It is a little book, a manuscript
compilation, and the compiler sent it to me with the request that I say whether I think it
ought to be published or not. I said, Yes; but as I slowly grow wise I briskly grow cautious;
and so, now that the publication is imminent, it has seemed to me that I should feel more comfortable
if I could divide up this responsibility with the public by adding them to the court. Therefore
I will print some extracts from the book, in the hope that they may make converts to my judgment
that the volume has merit which entitles it to publication.

As to its character. Every one has sampled "English as She is Spoke" and "English as She is
Wrote"; this little volume furnishes us an instructive array of examples of "English as She
is Taught"--in the public schools of--well, this country. The collection is made by a teacher
in those schools, and all the examples in it are genuine; none of them have been tampered with,
or doctored in any way. From time to time, during several years, whenever a pupil has delivered
himself of anything peculiarly quaint or toothsome in the course of his recitations, this teacher
and her associates have privately set that thing down in a memorandum-book; strictly following
the original, as to grammar, construction, spelling, and all; and the result is this literary
curiosity.

The contents of the book consist mainly of answers given by the boys and girls to questions,
said answers being given sometimes verbally, sometimes in writing. The subjects touched upon
are fifteen in number: I. Etymology; II. Grammar; III. Mathematics; IV. Geography; V. "Original";
VI. Analysis; VII. History; VIII. "Intellectual"; IX. Philosophy; X. Physiology; XI. Astronomy;
XII. Politics; XIII. Music; XIV. Oratory; XV. Metaphysics.

You perceive that the poor little young idea has taken a shot at a good many kinds of game
in the course of the book. Now as to results. Here are some quaint definitions of words. It
will be noticed that in all of these instances the sound of the word, or the look of it on
paper, has misled the child:

ABORIGINES, a system of mountains.

ALIAS, a good man in the Bible.

AMENABLE, anything that is mean.

AMMONIA, the food of the gods.

ASSIDUITY, state of being an acid.

AURIFEROUS, pertaining to an orifice.

CAPILLARY, a little caterpillar.

CORNIFEROUS, rocks in which fossil corn is found.

EMOLUMENT, a headstone to a grave.

EQUESTRIAN, one who asks questions.

EUCHARIST, one who plays euchre.

FRANCHISE, anything belonging to the French.

IDOLATER, a very idle person.

IPECAC, a man who likes a good dinner.

IRRIGATE, to make fun of.

MENDACIOUS, what can be mended.

MERCENARY, one who feels for another.

PARASITE, a kind of umbrella.

PARASITE, the murder of an infant.

PUBLICAN, a man who does his prayers in public.

TENACIOUS, ten acres of land.

Here is one where the phrase "publicans and sinners" has got mixed up in the child's mind with
politics, and the result is a definition which takes one in a sudden and unexpected way:

REPUBLICAN, a sinner mentioned in the Bible.

Also in Democratic newspapers now and then. Here are two where the mistake has resulted from
sound assisted by remote fact:

PLAGIARIST, a writer of plays.

DEMAGOGUE, a vessel containing beer and other liquids.

I cannot quite make out what it was that misled the pupil in the following instances; it would
not seem to have been the sound of the word, nor the look of it in print:

ASPHYXIA, a grumbling, fussy temper.

QUARTERNIONS, a bird with a flat beak and no bill, living in New Zealand.

QUARTERNIONS, the name given to a style of art practiced by the Phoenicians.

QUARTERNIONS, a religious convention held every hundred years.

SIBILANT, the state of being idiotic.

CROSIER, a staff carried by the Deity.

In the following sentences the pupil's ear has been deceiving him again:

The marriage was illegible.

He was totally dismasted with the whole performance.

He enjoys riding on a philosopher.

She was very quick at repertoire.

He prayed for the waters to subsidize.

The leopard is watching his sheep.

They had a strawberry vestibule.

Here is one which--well, now, how often we do slam right into the truth without ever suspecting it:

The men employed by the Gas Company go around and speculate the meter.

Indeed they do, dear; and when you grow up, many and many's the time you will notice it in
the gas bill. In the following sentences the little people have some information to convey,
every time; but in my case they fail to connect: the light always went out on the keystone word:

The coercion of some things is remarkable; as bread and molasses.

Her hat is contiguous because she wears it on one side.

He preached to an egregious congregation.

The captain eliminated a bullet through the man's heart.

You should take caution and be precarious.

The supercilious girl acted with vicissitude when the perennial time came.

The last is a curiously plausible sentence; one seems to know what it means, and yet he knows
all the time that he doesn't. Here is an odd (but entirely proper) use of a word, and a most
sudden descent from a lofty philosophical altitude to a very practical and homely illustration:

We should endeavor to avoid extremes--like those of wasps and bees.

And here--with "zoological" and "geological" in his mind, but not ready to his tongue--the
small scholar has innocently gone and let out a couple of secrets which ought never to have
been divulged in any circumstances:

There are a good many donkeys in theological gardens.

Some of the best fossils are found in theological gardens.

Under the head of "Grammar" the little scholars furnish the following information:

Gender is the distinguishing nouns without regard to sex.

A verb is something to eat.

Adverbs should always be used as adjectives and adjectives as adverbs.

Every sentence and name of God must begin with a caterpillar.

"Caterpillar" is well enough, but capital letter would have been stricter. The following is
a brave attempt at a solution, but it failed to liquify:

When they are going to say some prose or poetry before they say the poetry or prose they must
put a semicolon just after the introduction of the prose or poetry.

The chapter on "Mathematics" is full of fruit. From it I take a few samples--mainly in an unripe
state:

A straight line is any distance between two places.

Parallel lines are lines that can never meet until they run together.

A circle is a round straight line with a hole in the middle.

Things which are equal to each other are equal to anything else.

To find the number of square feet in a room you multiply the room by the number of the feet.
The product is the result.

Right you are. In the matter of geography this little book is unspeakably rich. The questions
do not appear to have applied the microscope to the subject, as did those quoted by Professor
Ravenstein; still, they proved plenty difficult enough without that. These pupils did not hunt
with a microscope, they hunted with a shot-gun; this is shown by the crippled condition of
the game they brought in:

America is divided into the Passiffic slope and the Mississippi valey.

North America is separated by Spain.

America consists from north to south about five hundred miles.

The United States is quite a small country compared with some other countrys, but it about
as industrious.

The capital of the United States is Long Island.

The five seaports of the U.S. are Newfunlan and Sanfrancisco.

The principal products of the U.S. is earthquakes and volcanoes.

The Alaginnies are mountains in Philadelphia.

The Rocky Mountains are on the western side of Philadelphia.

Cape Hateras is a vast body of water surrounded by land and flowing into the Gulf of Mexico.

Mason and Dixon's line is the Equator.

One of the leading industries of the United States is mollasses, book-covers, numbers, gas,
teaching, lumber, manufacturers, paper-making, publishers, coal.

In Austria the principal occupation is gathering Austrich feathers.

Gibraltar is an island built on a rock.

Russia is very cold and tyrannical.

Sicily is one of the Sandwich Islands.

Hindoostan flows through the Ganges and empties into the Mediterranean Sea.

Ireland is called the Emigrant Isle because it is so beautiful and green.

The width of the different zones Europe lies in depend upon the surrounding country.

The imports of a country are the things that are paid for, the exports are the things that are not.

Climate lasts all the time and weather only a few days.

The two most famous volcanoes of Europe are Sodom and Gomorrah.

The chapter headed "Analysis" shows us that the pupils in our public schools are not merely
loaded up with those showy facts about geography, mathematics, and so on, and left in that
incomplete state; no, there's machinery for clarifying and expanding their minds. They are
required to take poems and analyze them, dig out their common sense, reduce them to statistics,
and reproduce them in a luminous prose translation which shall tell you at a glance what the
poet was trying to get at. One sample will do. Here is a stanza from "The Lady of the Lake,"
followed by the pupil's impressive explanation of it:

Alone, but with unbated zeal, The horseman plied with scourge and steel; For jaded now and
spent with toil, Embossed with foam and dark with soil, While every gasp with sobs he drew,
The laboring stag strained full in view.

The man who rode on the horse performed the whip and an instrument made of steel alone with
strong ardor not diminishing, for, being tired from the time passed with hard labor overworked
with anger and ignorant with weariness, while every breath for labor he drew with cries full
or sorrow, the young deer made imperfect who worked hard filtered in sight.

I see, now, that I never understood that poem before. I have had glimpses of its meaning, it
moments when I was not as ignorant with weariness as usual, but this is the first time the
whole spacious idea of it ever filtered in sight. If I were a public-school pupil I would put
those other studies aside and stick to analysis; for, after all, it is the thing to spread
your mind.

We come now to historical matters, historical remains, one might say. As one turns the pages
he is impressed with the depth to which one date has been driven into the American child's
head--1492. The date is there, and it is there to stay. And it is always at hand, always deliverable
at a moment's notice. But the Fact that belongs with it? That is quite another matter. Only
the date itself is familiar and sure: its vast Fact has failed of lodgment. It would appear
that whenever you ask a public-school pupil when a thing--anything, no matter what--happened,
and he is in doubt, he always rips out his 1492. He applies it to everything, from the landing
of the ark to the introduction of the horse-car. Well, after all, it is our first date, and
so it is right enough to honor it, and pay the public schools to teach our children to honor it:

George Washington was born in 1492.

Washington wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1492.

St. Bartholemew was massacred in 1492.

The Brittains were the Saxons who entered England in 1492 under Julius Caesar.

The earth is 1492 miles in circumference.

To proceed with "History"

Christopher Columbus was called the Father of his Country.

Queen Isabella of Spain sold her watch and chain and other millinery so that Columbus could
discover America.

The Indian wars were very desecrating to the country.

The Indians pursued their warfare by hiding in the bushes and then scalping them.

Captain John Smith has been styled the father of his country. His life was saved by his daughter
Pochahantas.

The Puritans found an insane asylum in the wilds of America.

The Stamp Act was to make everybody stamp all materials so they should be null and void.

Washington died in Spain almost broken-hearted. His remains were taken to the cathedral in Havana.

Gorilla warfare was where men rode on gorillas.

John Brown was a very good insane man who tried to get fugitives slaves into Virginia. He captured
all the inhabitants, but was finally conquered and condemned to his death. The confederasy
was formed by the fugitive slaves.

Alfred the Great reigned 872 years. He was distinguished for letting some buckwheat cakes burn,
and the lady scolded him.

Henry Eight was famous for being a great widower haveing lost several wives.

Lady Jane Grey studied Greek and Latin and was beheaded after a few days.

John Bright is noted for an incurable disease.

Lord James Gordon Bennet instigated the Gordon Riots.

The Middle Ages come in between antiquity and posterity.

Luther introduced Christianity into England a good many thousand years ago. His birthday was
November 1883. He was once a Pope. He lived at the time of the Rebellion of Worms.

Julius Caesar is noted for his famous telegram dispatch I came I saw I conquered.

Julius Caesar was really a very great man. He was a very great soldier and wrote a book for
beginners in the Latin.

Cleopatra was caused by the death of an asp which she dissolved in a wine cup.

The only form of government in Greece was a limited monkey.

The Persian war lasted about 500 years.

Greece had only 7 wise men.

Socrates... destroyed some statues and had to drink Shamrock.

Here is a fact correctly stated; and yet it is phrased with such ingenious infelicity that
it can be depended upon to convey misinformation every time it is uncarefully unread:

By the Salic law no woman or descendant of a woman could occupy the throne.

To show how far a child can travel in history with judicious and diligent boosting in the public
school, we select the following mosaic:

Abraham Lincoln was born in Wales in 1599.

In the chapter headed "Intellectual" I find a great number of most interesting statements.
A sample or two may be found not amiss:

Bracebridge Hall was written by Henry Irving.

Show Bound was written by Peter Cooper.

The House of the Seven Gables was written by Lord Bryant.

Edgar A. Poe was a very curdling writer.

Cotton Mather was a writer who invented the cotten gin and wrote histories.

Beowulf wrote the Scriptures.

Ben Johnson survived Shakspeare in some respects.

In the Canterbury Tale it gives account of King Alfred on his way to the shrine of Thomas Bucket.

Chaucer was the father of English pottery.

Chaucer was a bland verse writer of the third century.

Chaucer was succeeded by H. Wads. Longfellow an American Writer. His writings were chiefly
prose and nearly one hundred years elapsed.

Shakspere translated the Scriptures and it was called St. James because he did it.

In the middle of the chapter I find many pages of information concerning Shakespeare's plays,
Milton's works, and those of Bacon, Addison, Samuel Johnson, Fielding, Richardson, Sterne,
Smollett, De Foe, Locke, Pope, Swift, Goldsmith, Burns, Cowper, Wordsworth, Gibbon, Byron,
Coleridge, Hood, Scott, Macaulay, George Eliot, Dickens, Bulwer, Thackeray, Browning, Mrs.
Browning, Tennyson, and Disraeli--a fact which shows that into the restricted stomach of the
public-school pupil is shoveled every year the blood, bone, and viscera of a gigantic literature,
and the same is there digested and disposed of in a most successful and characteristic and
gratifying public-school way. I have space for but a trifling few of the results:

Lord Byron was the son of an heiress and a drunken man.

Wm. Wordsworth wrote the Barefoot Boy and Imitations on Immortality.

Gibbon wrote a history of his travels in Italy. This was original.

George Eliot left a wife and children who mourned greatly for his genius.

George Eliot Miss Mary Evans Mrs. Cross Mrs. Lewis was the greatest female poet unless George
Sands is made an exception of.

Bulwell is considered a good writer.

Sir Walter Scott Charles Bronte Alfred the Great and Johnson were the first great novelists.

Thomas Babington Makorlay graduated at Harvard and then studied law, he was raised to the peerage
as baron in 1557 and died in 1776.

Here are two or three miscellaneous facts that may be of value, if taken in moderation:

Homer's writings are Homer's Essays Virgil the Aenid and Paradise lost some people say that
these poems were not written by Homer but by another man of the same name.

A sort of sadness kind of shone in Bryant's poems.

Holmes is a very profligate and amusing writer.

When the public-school pupil wrestles with the political features of the Great Republic, they
throw him sometimes:

A bill becomes a law when the President vetoes it.

The three departments of the government is the President rules the world, the governor rules
the State, the mayor rules the city.

The first conscientious Congress met in Philadelphia.

The Constitution of the United States was established to ensure domestic hostility.

Truth crushed to earth will rise again. As follows:

The Constitution of the United States is that part of the book at the end which nobody reads.

And here she rises once more and untimely. There should be a limit to public-school instruction;
it cannot be wise or well to let the young find out everything:

Congress is divided into civilized half civilized and savage.

Here are some results of study in music and oratory:

An interval in music is the distance on the keyboard from one piano to the next.

A rest means you are not to sing it.

Emphasis is putting more distress on one word than another.

The chapter on "Physiology" contains much that ought not to be lost to science:

Physillogigy is to study about your bones stummick and vertebry.

Occupations which are injurious to health are cabolic acid gas which is impure blood.

We have an upper and lower skin. The lower skin moves all the time and the upper skin moves
when we do.

The body is mostly composed of water and about one half is avaricious tissue.

The stomach is a small pear-shaped bone situated in the body.

The gastric juice keeps the bones from creaking.

The Chyle flows up the middle of the backbone and reaches the heart where it meets the oxygen
and is purified.

The salivary glands are used to salivate the body.

In the stomach starch is changed to cane sugar and cane sugar to sugar cane.

The olfactory nerve enters the cavity of the orbit and is developed into the special sense
of hearing.

The growth of a tooth begins in the back of the mouth and extends to the stomach.

If we were on a railroad track and a train was coming the train would deafen our ears so that
we couldn't see to get off the track.

If, up to this point, none of my quotations have added flavor to the Johnsonian anecdote at
the head of this article, let us make another attempt:

The theory that intuitive truths are discovered by the light of nature originated from St.
John's interpretation of a passage in the Gospel of Plato.

The weight of the earth is found by comparing a mass of known lead with that of a mass of unknown
lead.

To find the weight of the earth take the length of a degree on a meridian and multiply by 6
1/2 pounds.

The spheres are to each other as the squares of their homologous sides.

A body will go just as far in the first second as the body will go plus the force of gravity
and that's equal to twice what the body will go.

Specific gravity is the weight to be compared weight of an equal volume of or that is the weight
of a body compared with the weight of an equal volume.

The law of fluid pressure divide the different forms of organized bodies by the form of attraction
and the number increased will be the form.

Inertia is that property of bodies by virtue of which it cannot change its own condition of
rest or motion. In other words it is the negative quality of passiveness either in recoverable
latency or insipient latescence.

If a laugh is fair here, not the struggling child, nor the unintelligent teacher--or rather
the unintelligent Boards, Committees, and Trustees--are the proper target for it. All through
this little book one detects the signs of a certain probable fact--that a large part of the
pupil's "instruction" consists in cramming him with obscure and wordy "rules" which he does
not understand and has no time to understand. It would be as useful to cram him with brickbats;
they would at least stay. In a town in the interior of New York, a few years ago, a gentleman
set forth a mathematical problem and proposed to give a prize to every public-school pupil
who should furnish the correct solution of it. Twenty-two of the brightest boys in the public
schools entered the contest. The problem was not a very difficult one for pupils of their mathematical
rank and standing, yet they all failed--by a hair--through one trifling mistake or another.
Some searching questions were asked, when it turned out that these lads were as glib as parrots
with the "rules," but could not reason out a single rule or explain the principle underlying
it. Their memories had been stocked, but not their understandings. It was a case of brickbat
culture, pure and simple.

There are several curious "compositions" in the little book, and we must make room for one.
It is full of naivete, brutal truth, and unembarrassed directness, and is the funniest (genuine)
boy's composition I think I have ever seen:

ON GIRLS

Girls are very stuck up and dignefied in their maner and be have your. They think more of dress
than anything and like to play with dowls and rags. They cry if they see a cow in a far distance
and are afraid of guns. They stay at home all the time and go to church on Sunday. They are
al-ways sick. They are always funy and making fun of boy's hands and they say how dirty. They
cant play marbels. I pity them poor things. They make fun of boys and then turn round and love
them. I dont beleave they ever kiled a cat or anything. They look out every nite and say oh
ant the moon lovely. Thir is one thing I have not told and that is they al-ways now their lessons
bettern boys.

From Mr. Edward Channing's recent article in SCIENCE:

The marked difference between the books now being produced by French, English, and American
travelers, on the one hand, and German explorers, on the other, is too great to escape attention.
That difference is due entirely to the fact that in school and university the German is taught,
in the first place to see, and in the second place to understand what he does see.

A SIMPLIFIED ALPHABET

(This article, written during the autumn of 1899, was about the last writing done by Mark Twain
on any impersonal subject.)

I have had a kindly feeling, a friendly feeling, a cousinly feeling toward Simplified Spelling,
from the beginning of the movement three years ago, but nothing more inflamed than that. It
seemed to me to merely propose to substitute one inadequacy for another; a sort of patching
and plugging poor old dental relics with cement and gold and porcelain paste; what was really
needed was a new set of teeth. That is to say, a new ALPHABET.

The heart of our trouble is with our foolish alphabet. It doesn't know how to spell, and can't
be taught. In this it is like all other alphabets except one--the phonographic. This is the
only competent alphabet in the world. It can spell and correctly pronounce any word in our
language.

That admirable alphabet, that brilliant alphabet, that inspired alphabet, can be learned in
an hour or two. In a week the student can learn to write it with some little facility, and
to read it with considerable ease. I know, for I saw it tried in a public school in Nevada
forty-five years ago, and was so impressed by the incident that it has remained in my memory
ever since.

I wish we could adopt it in place of our present written (and printed) character. I mean SIMPLY
the alphabet; simply the consonants and the vowels--I don't mean any REDUCTIONS or abbreviations
of them, such as the shorthand writer uses in order to get compression and speed. No, I would
SPELL EVERY WORD OUT.

I will insert the alphabet here as I find it in Burnz's PHONIC SHORTHAND. (Figure 1) It is
arranged on the basis of Isaac Pitman's PHONOGRAPHY. Isaac Pitman was the originator and father
of scientific phonography. It is used throughout the globe. It was a memorable invention. He
made it public seventy-three years ago. The firm of Isaac Pitman & Sons, New York, still exists,
and they continue the master's work.

What should we gain?

First of all, we could spell DEFINITELY--and correctly--any word you please, just by the SOUND
of it. We can't do that with our present alphabet. For instance, take a simple, every-day word
PHTHISIS. If we tried to spell it by the sound of it, we should make it TYSIS, and be laughed
at by every educated person.

Secondly, we should gain in REDUCTION OF LABOR in writing.

Simplified Spelling makes valuable reductions in the case of several hundred words, but the
new spelling must be LEARNED. You can't spell them by the sound; you must get them out of the book.

But even if we knew the simplified form for every word in the language, the phonographic alphabet
would still beat the Simplified Speller "hands down" in the important matter of economy of
labor. I will illustrate:

PRESENT FORM: through, laugh, highland.

SIMPLIFIED FORM: thru, laff, hyland.

PHONOGRAPHIC FORM: (Figure 2)

To write the word "through," the pen has to make twenty-one strokes.

To write the word "thru," then pen has to make twelve strokes--a good saving.

To write that same word with the phonographic alphabet, the pen has to make only THREE strokes.

To write the word "laugh," the pen has to make FOURTEEN strokes.

To write "laff," the pen has to make the SAME NUMBER of strokes--no labor is saved to the penman.

To write "hyland," the pen has to make eighteen strokes.

To write that word with the phonographic alphabet, the pen has to make only FIVE strokes. (Figure
3)

To write the words "phonographic alphabet," the pen has to make fifty-three strokes.

To write "fonografic alfabet," the pen has to make fifty strokes. To the penman, the saving
in labor is insignificant.

To write that word (with vowels) with the phonographic alphabet, the pen has to make only SEVENTEEN
strokes.

Without the vowels, only THIRTEEN strokes. (Figure 4) The vowels are hardly necessary, this time.

We make five pen-strokes in writing an m. Thus: (Figure 5) a stroke down; a stroke up; a second
stroke down; a second stroke up; a final stroke down. Total, five. The phonographic alphabet
accomplishes the m with a single stroke--a curve, like a parenthesis that has come home drunk
and has fallen face down right at the front door where everybody that goes along will see him
and say, Alas!

When our written m is not the end of a word, but is otherwise located, it has to be connected
with the next letter, and that requires another pen-stroke, making six in all, before you get
rid of that m. But never mind about the connecting strokes--let them go. Without counting them,
the twenty-six letters of our alphabet consumed about eighty pen-strokes for their construction--about
three pen-strokes per letter.

It is THREE TIMES THE NUMBER required by the phonographic alphabet. It requires but ONE stroke
for each letter.

My writing-gait is--well, I don't know what it is, but I will time myself and see. Result:
it is twenty-four words per minute. I don't mean composing; I mean COPYING. There isn't any
definite composing-gait.

Very well, my copying-gait is 1,440 words per hour--say 1,500. If I could use the phonographic
character with facility I could do the 1,500 in twenty minutes. I could do nine hours' copying
in three hours; I could do three years' copying in one year. Also, if I had a typewriting machine
with the phonographic alphabet on it--oh, the miracles I could do!

I am not pretending to write that character well. I have never had a lesson, and I am copying
the letters from the book. But I can accomplish my desire, at any rate, which is, to make the
reader get a good and clear idea of the advantage it would be to us if we could discard our
present alphabet and put this better one in its place--using it in books, newspapers, with
the typewriter, and with the pen.

(Figure 6)--MAN DOG HORSE. I think it is graceful and would look comely in print. And consider--once
more, I beg--what a labor-saver it is! Ten pen-strokes with the one system to convey those
three words above, and thirty-three by the other! (Figure 6) I mean, in SOME ways, not in all.
I suppose I might go so far as to say in most ways, and be within the facts, but never mind;
let it go at SOME. One of the ways in which it exercises this birthright is--as I think--continuing
to use our laughable alphabet these seventy-three years while there was a rational one at hand,
to be had for the taking.

It has taken five hundred years to simplify some of Chaucer's rotten spelling--if I may be
allowed to use to frank a term as that--and it will take five hundred years more to get our
exasperating new Simplified Corruptions accepted and running smoothly. And we sha'n't be any
better off then than we are now; for in that day we shall still have the privilege the Simplifiers
are exercising now: ANYBODY can change the spelling that wants to.

BUT YOU CAN'T CHANGE THE PHONOGRAPHIC SPELLING; THERE ISN'T ANY WAY. It will always follow
the SOUND. If you want to change the spelling, you have to change the sound first.

Mind, I myself am a Simplified Speller; I belong to that unhappy guild that is patiently and
hopefully trying to reform our drunken old alphabet by reducing his whiskey. Well, it will
improve him. When they get through and have reformed him all they can by their system he will
be only HALF drunk. Above that condition their system can never lift him. There is no competent,
and lasting, and real reform for him but to take away his whiskey entirely, and fill up his
jug with Pitman's wholesome and undiseased alphabet.

One great drawback to Simplified Spelling is, that in print a simplified word looks so like
the very nation! and when you bunch a whole squadron of the Simplified together the spectacle
is very nearly unendurable.

The da ma ov koars kum when the publik ma be expektd to get rekonsyled to the bezair asspekt
of the Simplified Kombynashuns, but--if I may be allowed the expression--is it worth the wasted
time? (Figure 7)

To see our letters put together in ways to which we are not accustomed offends the eye, and
also takes the EXPRESSION out of the words.

La on, Makduf, and damd be he hoo furst krys hold, enuf!

It doesn't thrill you as it used to do. The simplifications have sucked the thrill all out of it.

But a written character with which we are NOT ACQUAINTED does not offend us--Greek, Hebrew,
Russian, Arabic, and the others--they have an interesting look, and we see beauty in them,
too. And this is true of hieroglyphics, as well. There is something pleasant and engaging about
the mathematical signs when we do not understand them. The mystery hidden in these things has
a fascination for us: we can't come across a printed page of shorthand without being impressed
by it and wishing we could read it.

Very well, what I am offering for acceptance and adopting is not shorthand, but longhand, written
with the SHORTHAND ALPHABET UNREACHED. You can write three times as many words in a minute
with it as you can write with our alphabet. And so, in a way, it IS properly a shorthand. It
has a pleasant look, too; a beguiling look, an inviting look. I will write something in it,
in my rude and untaught way: (Figure 8)

Even when I do it it comes out prettier than it does in Simplified Spelling. Yes, and in the
Simplified it costs one hundred and twenty-three pen-strokes to write it, whereas in the phonographic
it costs only twenty-nine.

(Figure 9) is probably (Figure 10).

Let us hope so, anyway.

AS CONCERNS INTERPRETING THE DEITY

I

This line of hieroglyphics was for fourteen years the despair of all the scholars who labored
over the mysteries of the Rosetta stone: (Figure 1)

After five years of study Champollion translated it thus:

Therefore let the worship of Epiphanes be maintained in all the temples, this upon pain of death.

That was the twenty-forth translation that had been furnished by scholars. For a time it stood.
But only for a time. Then doubts began to assail it and undermine it, and the scholars resumed
their labors. Three years of patient work produced eleven new translations; among them, this,
by Grunfeldt, was received with considerable favor:

The horse of Epiphanes shall be maintained at the public expense; this upon pain of death.

But the following rendering, by Gospodin, was received by the learned world with yet greater favor:

The priest shall explain the wisdom of Epiphanes to all these people, and these shall listen
with reverence, upon pain of death.

Seven years followed, in which twenty-one fresh and widely varying renderings were scored--none
of them quite convincing. But now, at last, came Rawlinson, the youngest of all the scholars,
with a translation which was immediately and universally recognized as being the correct version,
and his name became famous in a day. So famous, indeed, that even the children were familiar
with it; and such a noise did the achievement itself make that not even the noise of the monumental
political event of that same year--the flight from Elba--was able to smother it to silence.
Rawlinson's version reads as follows:

Therefore, walk not away from the wisdom of Epiphanes, but turn and follow it; so shall it
conduct thee to the temple's peace, and soften for thee the sorrows of life and the pains of death.

Here is another difficult text: (Figure 2)

It is demotic--a style of Egyptian writing and a phase of the language which has perished from
the knowledge of all men twenty-five hundred years before the Christian era.

Our red Indians have left many records, in the form of pictures, upon our crags and boulders.
It has taken our most gifted and painstaking students two centuries to get at the meanings
hidden in these pictures; yet there are still two little lines of hieroglyphics among the figures
grouped upon the Dighton Rocks which they have not succeeds in interpreting to their satisfaction.
These: (Figure 3)

The suggested solutions are practically innumerable; they would fill a book.

Thus we have infinite trouble in solving man-made mysteries; it is only when we set out to
discover the secret of God that our difficulties disappear. It was always so. In antique Roman
times it was the custom of the Deity to try to conceal His intentions in the entrails of birds,
and this was patiently and hopefully continued century after century, although the attempted
concealment never succeeded, in a single recorded instance. The augurs could read entrails
as easily as a modern child can read coarse print. Roman history is full of the marvels of
interpretation which these extraordinary men performed. These strange and wonderful achievements
move our awe and compel our admiration. Those men could pierce to the marrow of a mystery instantly.
If the Rosetta-stone idea had been introduced it would have defeated them, but entrails had
no embarrassments for them. Entrails have gone out, now--entrails and dreams. It was at last
found out that as hiding-places for the divine intentions they were inadequate.

A part of the wall of Valletri in former times been struck with thunder, the response of the
soothsayers was, that a native of that town would some time or other arrive at supreme power.
--BOHN'S SUETONIUS, p. 138.

"Some time or other." It looks indefinite, but no matter, it happened, all the same; one needed
only to wait, and be patient, and keep watch, then he would find out that the thunder-stroke
had Caesar Augustus in mind, and had come to give notice.

There were other advance-advertisements. One of them appeared just before Caesar Augustus was
born, and was most poetic and touching and romantic in its feelings and aspects. It was a dream.
It was dreamed by Caesar Augustus's mother, and interpreted at the usual rates:

Atia, before her delivery, dreamed that her bowels stretched to the stars and expanded through
the whole circuit of heaven and earth.--SUETONIUS, p. 139.

That was in the augur's line, and furnished him no difficulties, but it would have taken Rawlinson
and Champollion fourteen years to make sure of what it meant, because they would have been
surprised and dizzy. It would have been too late to be valuable, then, and the bill for service
would have been barred by the statute of limitation.

In those old Roman days a gentleman's education was not complete until he had taken a theological
course at the seminary and learned how to translate entrails. Caesar Augustus's education received
this final polish. All through his life, whenever he had poultry on the menu he saved the interiors
and kept himself informed of the Deity's plans by exercising upon those interiors the arts
of augury.

In his first consulship, while he was observing the auguries, twelve vultures presented themselves,
as they had done to Romulus. And when he offered sacrifice, the livers of all the victims were
folded inward in the lower part; a circumstance which was regarded by those present who had
skill in things of that nature, as an indubitable prognostic of great and wonderful fortune.--SUETONIUS,
p. 141.

"Indubitable" is a strong word, but no doubt it was justified, if the livers were really turned
that way. In those days chicken livers were strangely and delicately sensitive to coming events,
no matter how far off they might be; and they could never keep still, but would curl and squirm
like that, particularly when vultures came and showed interest in that approaching great event
and in breakfast.

II

We may now skip eleven hundred and thirty or forty years, which brings us down to enlightened
Christian times and the troubled days of King Stephen of England. The augur has had his day
and has been long ago forgotten; the priest had fallen heir to his trade.

King Henry is dead; Stephen, that bold and outrageous person, comes flying over from Normandy
to steal the throne from Henry's daughter. He accomplished his crime, and Henry of Huntington,
a priest of high degree, mourns over it in his Chronicle. The Archbishop of Canterbury consecrated
Stephen: "wherefore the Lord visited the Archbishop with the same judgment which he had inflicted
upon him who struck Jeremiah the great priest: he died with a year."

Stephen's was the greater offense, but Stephen could wait; not so the Archbishop, apparently.

The kingdom was a prey to intestine wars; slaughter, fire, and rapine spread ruin throughout
the land; cries of distress, horror, and woe rose in every quarter.

That was the result of Stephen's crime. These unspeakable conditions continued during nineteen
years. Then Stephen died as comfortably as any man ever did, and was honorably buried. It makes
one pity the poor Archbishop, and with that he, too, could have been let off as leniently.
How did Henry of Huntington know that the Archbishop was sent to his grave by judgment of God
for consecrating Stephen? He does not explain. Neither does he explain why Stephen was awarded
a pleasanter death than he was entitled to, while the aged King Henry, his predecessor, who
had ruled England thirty-five years to the people's strongly worded satisfaction, was condemned
to close his life in circumstances most distinctly unpleasant, inconvenient, and disagreeable.
His was probably the most uninspiring funeral that is set down in history. There is not a detail
about it that is attractive. It seems to have been just the funeral for Stephen, and even at
this far-distant day it is matter of just regret that by an indiscretion the wrong man got it.

Whenever God punishes a man, Henry of Huntington knows why it was done, and tells us; and his
pen is eloquent with admiration; but when a man has earned punishment, and escapes, he does
not explain. He is evidently puzzled, but he does not say anything. I think it is often apparent
that he is pained by these discrepancies, but loyally tries his best not to show it. When he
cannot praise, he delivers himself of a silence so marked that a suspicious person could mistake
it for suppressed criticism. However, he has plenty of opportunities to feel contented with
the way things go--his book is full of them.

King David of Scotland... under color of religion caused his followers to deal most barbarously
with the English. They ripped open women, tossed children on the points of spears, butchered
priests at the altars, and, cutting off the heads from the images on crucifixes, placed them
on the bodies of the slain, while in exchange they fixed on the crucifixes the heads of their
victims. Wherever the Scots came, there was the same scene of horror and cruelty: women shrieking,
old men lamenting, amid the groans of the dying and the despair of the living.

But the English got the victory.

Then the chief of the men of Lothian fell, pierced by an arrow, and all his followers were
put to flight. For the Almighty was offended at them and their strength was rent like a cobweb.

Offended at them for what? For committing those fearful butcheries? No, for that was the common
custom on both sides, and not open to criticism. Then was it for doing the butcheries "under
cover of religion"? No, that was not it; religious feeling was often expressed in that fervent
way all through those old centuries. The truth is, He was not offended at "them" at all; He
was only offended at their king, who had been false to an oath. Then why did not He put the
punishment upon the king instead of upon "them"? It is a difficult question. One can see by
the Chronicle that the "judgments" fell rather customarily upon the wrong person, but Henry
of Huntington does not explain why. Here is one that went true; the chronicler's satisfaction
in it is not hidden:

In the month of August, Providence displayed its justice in a remarkable manner; for two of
the nobles who had converted monasteries into fortifications, expelling the monks, their sin
being the same, met with a similar punishment. Robert Marmion was one, Godfrey de Mandeville
the other. Robert Marmion, issuing forth against the enemy, was slain under the walls of the
monastery, being the only one who fell, though he was surrounded by his troops. Dying excommunicated,
he became subject to death everlasting. In like manner Earl Godfrey was singled out among his
followers, and shot with an arrow by a common foot-soldier. He made light of the wound, but
he died of it in a few days, under excommunication. See here the like judgment of God, memorable
through all ages!

The exaltation jars upon me; not because of the death of the men, for they deserved that, but
because it is death eternal, in white-hot fire and flame. It makes my flesh crawl. I have not
known more than three men, or perhaps four, in my whole lifetime, whom I would rejoice to see
writhing in those fires for even a year, let alone forever. I believe I would relent before
the year was up, and get them out if I could. I think that in the long run, if a man's wife
and babies, who had not harmed me, should come crying and pleading, I couldn't stand it; I
know I should forgive him and let him go, even if he had violated a monastery. Henry of Huntington
has been watching Godfrey and Marmion for nearly seven hundred and fifty years, now, but I
couldn't do it, I know I couldn't. I am soft and gentle in my nature, and I should have forgiven
them seventy-and-seven times, long ago. And I think God has; but this is only an opinion, and
not authoritative, like Henry of Huntington's interpretations. I could learn to interpret,
but I have never tried; I get so little time.

All through his book Henry exhibits his familiarity with the intentions of God, and with the
reasons for his intentions. Sometimes--very often, in fact--the act follows the intention after
such a wide interval of time that one wonders how Henry could fit one act out of a hundred
to one intention out of a hundred and get the thing right every time when there was such abundant
choice among acts and intentions. Sometimes a man offends the Deity with a crime, and is punished
for it thirty years later; meantime he was committed a million other crimes: no matter, Henry
can pick out the one that brought the worms. Worms were generally used in those days for the
slaying of particularly wicked people. This has gone out, now, but in old times it was a favorite.
It always indicated a case of "wrath." For instance:

... the just God avenging Robert Fitzhilderbrand's perfidy, a worm grew in his vitals, which
gradually gnawing its way through his intestines fattened on the abandoned man till, tortured
with excruciating sufferings and venting himself in bitter moans, he was by a fitting punishment
brought to his end.--(P. 400.)

It was probably an alligator, but we cannot tell; we only know it was a particular breed, and
only used to convey wrath. Some authorities think it was an ichthyosaurus, but there is much doubt.

However, one thing we do know; and that is that that worm had been due years and years. Robert
F. had violated a monastery once; he had committed unprintable crimes since, and they had been
permitted--under disapproval--but the ravishment of the monastery had not been forgotten nor
forgiven, and the worm came at last.

Why were these reforms put off in this strange way? What was to be gained by it? Did Henry
of Huntington really know his facts, or was he only guessing? Sometimes I am half persuaded
that he is only a guesser, and not a good one. The divine wisdom must surely be of the better
quality than he makes it out to be.

Five hundred years before Henry's time some forecasts of the Lord's purposes were furnished
by a pope, who perceived, by certain perfectly trustworthy signs furnished by the Deity for
the information of His familiars, that the end of the world was

... about to come. But as this end of the world draws near many things are at hand which have
not before happened, as changes in the air, terrible signs in the heavens, tempests out of
the common order of the seasons, wars, famines, pestilences, earthquakes in various places;
all which will not happen in our days, but after our days all will come to pass.

Still, the end was so near that these signs were "sent before that we may be careful for our
souls and be found prepared to meet the impending judgment."

That was thirteen hundred years ago. This is really no improvement on the work of the Roman augurs.

CONCERNING TOBACCO

As concerns tobacco, there are many superstitions. And the chiefest is this--that there is
a STANDARD governing the matter, whereas there is nothing of the kind. Each man's own preference
is the only standard for him, the only one which he can accept, the only one which can command
him. A congress of all the tobacco-lovers in the world could not elect a standard which would
be binding upon you or me, or would even much influence us.

The next superstition is that a man has a standard of his own. He hasn't. He thinks he has,
but he hasn't. He thinks he can tell what he regards as a good cigar from what he regards as
a bad one--but he can't. He goes by the brand, yet imagines he goes by the flavor. One may
palm off the worst counterfeit upon him; if it bears his brand he will smoke it contentedly
and never suspect.

Children of twenty-five, who have seven years experience, try to tell me what is a good cigar
and what isn't. Me, who never learned to smoke, but always smoked; me, who came into the world
asking for a light.

No one can tell me what is a good cigar--for me. I am the only judge. People who claim to know
say that I smoke the worst cigars in the world. They bring their own cigars when they come
to my house. They betray an unmanly terror when I offer them a cigar; they tell lies and hurry
away to meet engagements which they have not made when they are threatened with the hospitalities
of my box. Now then, observe what superstition, assisted by a man's reputation, can do. I was
to have twelve personal friends to supper one night. One of them was as notorious for costly
and elegant cigars as I was for cheap and devilish ones. I called at his house and when no
one was looking borrowed a double handful of his very choicest; cigars which cost him forty
cents apiece and bore red-and-gold labels in sign of their nobility. I removed the labels and
put the cigars into a box with my favorite brand on it--a brand which those people all knew,
and which cowed them as men are cowed by an epidemic. They took these cigars when offered at
the end of the supper, and lit them and sternly struggled with them--in dreary silence, for
hilarity died when the fell brand came into view and started around--but their fortitude held
for a short time only; then they made excuses and filed out, treading on one another's heels
with indecent eagerness; and in the morning when I went out to observe results the cigars lay
all between the front door and the gate. All except one--that one lay in the plate of the man
from whom I had cabbaged the lot. One or two whiffs was all he could stand. He told me afterward
that some day I would get shot for giving people that kind of cigars to smoke.

Am I certain of my own standard? Perfectly; yes, absolutely--unless somebody fools me by putting
my brand on some other kind of cigar; for no doubt I am like the rest, and know my cigar by
the brand instead of by the flavor. However, my standard is a pretty wide one and covers a
good deal of territory. To me, almost any cigar is good that nobody else will smoke, and to
me almost all cigars are bad that other people consider good. Nearly any cigar will do me,
except a Havana. People think they hurt my feelings when then come to my house with their life
preservers on--I mean, with their own cigars in their pockets. It is an error; I take care
of myself in a similar way. When I go into danger--that is, into rich people's houses, where,
in the nature of things, they will have high-tariff cigars, red-and-gilt girded and nested
in a rosewood box along with a damp sponge, cigars which develop a dismal black ash and burn
down the side and smell, and will grow hot to the fingers, and will go on growing hotter and
hotter, and go on smelling more and more infamously and unendurably the deeper the fire tunnels
down inside below the thimbleful of honest tobacco that is in the front end, the furnisher
of it praising it all the time and telling you how much the deadly thing cost--yes, when I
go into that sort of peril I carry my own defense along; I carry my own brand--twenty-seven
cents a barrel--and I live to see my family again. I may seem to light his red-gartered cigar,
but that is only for courtesy's sake; I smuggle it into my pocket for the poor, of whom I know
many, and light one of my own; and while he praises it I join in, but when he says it cost
forty-five cents I say nothing, for I know better.

However, to say true, my tastes are so catholic that I have never seen any cigars that I really
could not smoke, except those that cost a dollar apiece. I have examined those and know that
they are made of dog-hair, and not good dog-hair at that.

I have a thoroughly satisfactory time in Europe, for all over the Continent one finds cigars
which not even the most hardened newsboys in New York would smoke. I brought cigars with me,
the last time; I will not do that any more. In Italy, as in France, the Government is the only
cigar-peddler. Italy has three or four domestic brands: the Minghetti, the Trabuco, the Virginia,
and a very coarse one which is a modification of the Virginia. The Minghettis are large and
comely, and cost three dollars and sixty cents a hundred; I can smoke a hundred in seven days
and enjoy every one of them. The Trabucos suit me, too; I don't remember the price. But one
has to learn to like the Virginia, nobody is born friendly to it. It looks like a rat-tail
file, but smokes better, some think. It has a straw through it; you pull this out, and it leaves
a flue, otherwise there would be no draught, not even as much as there is to a nail. Some prefer
a nail at first. However, I like all the French, Swiss, German, and Italian domestic cigars,
and have never cared to inquire what they are made of; and nobody would know, anyhow, perhaps.
There is even a brand of European smoking-tobacco that I like. It is a brand used by the Italian
peasants. It is loose and dry and black, and looks like tea-grounds. When the fire is applied
it expands, and climbs up and towers above the pipe, and presently tumbles off inside of one's
vest. The tobacco itself is cheap, but it raises the insurance. It is as I remarked in the
beginning--the taste for tobacco is a matter of superstition. There are no standards--no real
standards. Each man's preference is the only standard for him, the only one which he can accept,
the only one which can command him.

THE BEE

It was Maeterlinck who introduced me to the bee. I mean, in the psychical and in the poetical
way. I had had a business introduction earlier. It was when I was a boy. It is strange that
I should remember a formality like that so long; it must be nearly sixty years.

Bee scientists always speak of the bee as she. It is because all the important bees are of
that sex. In the hive there is one married bee, called the queen; she has fifty thousand children;
of these, about one hundred are sons; the rest are daughters. Some of the daughters are young
maids, some are old maids, and all are virgins and remain so.

Every spring the queen comes out of the hive and flies away with one of her sons and marries
him. The honeymoon lasts only an hour or two; then the queen divorces her husband and returns
home competent to lay two million eggs. This will be enough to last the year, but not more
than enough, because hundreds of bees are drowned every day, and other hundreds are eaten by
birds, and it is the queen's business to keep the population up to standard--say, fifty thousand.
She must always have that many children on hand and efficient during the busy season, which
is summer, or winter would catch the community short of food. She lays from two thousand to
three thousand eggs a day, according to the demand; and she must exercise judgment, and not
lay more than are needed in a slim flower-harvest, nor fewer than are required in a prodigal
one, or the board of directors will dethrone her and elect a queen that has more sense.

There are always a few royal heirs in stock and ready to take her place--ready and more than
anxious to do it, although she is their own mother. These girls are kept by themselves, and
are regally fed and tended from birth. No other bees get such fine food as they get, or live
such a high and luxurious life. By consequence they are larger and longer and sleeker than
their working sisters. And they have a curved sting, shaped like a scimitar, while the others
have a straight one.

A common bee will sting any one or anybody, but a royalty stings royalties only. A common bee
will sting and kill another common bee, for cause, but when it is necessary to kill the queen
other ways are employed. When a queen has grown old and slack and does not lay eggs enough
one of her royal daughters is allowed to come to attack her, the rest of the bees looking on
at the duel and seeing fair play. It is a duel with the curved stings. If one of the fighters
gets hard pressed and gives it up and runs, she is brought back and must try again--once, maybe
twice; then, if she runs yet once more for her life, judicial death is her portion; her children
pack themselves into a ball around her person and hold her in that compact grip two or three
days, until she starves to death or is suffocated. Meantime the victor bee is receiving royal
honors and performing the one royal function--laying eggs.

As regards the ethics of the judicial assassination of the queen, that is a matter of politics,
and will be discussed later, in its proper place.

During substantially the whole of her short life of five or six years the queen lives in Egyptian
darkness and stately seclusion of the royal apartments, with none about her but plebeian servants,
who give her empty lip-affection in place of the love which her heart hungers for; who spy
upon her in the interest of her waiting heirs, and report and exaggerate her defects and deficiencies
to them; who fawn upon her and flatter her to her face and slander her behind her back; who
grovel before her in the day of her power and forsake her in her age and weakness. There she
sits, friendless, upon her throne through the long night of her life, cut off from the consoling
sympathies and sweet companionship and loving endearments which she craves, by the gilded barriers
of her awful rank; a forlorn exile in her own house and home, weary object of formal ceremonies
and machine-made worship, winged child of the sun, native to the free air and the blue skies
and the flowery fields, doomed by the splendid accident of her birth to trade this priceless
heritage for a black captivity, a tinsel grandeur, and a loveless life, with shame and insult
at the end and a cruel death--and condemned by the human instinct in her to hold the bargain
valuable!

Huber, Lubbock, Maeterlinck--in fact, all the great authorities--are agreed in denying that
the bee is a member of the human family. I do not know why they have done this, but I think
it is from dishonest motives. Why, the innumerable facts brought to light by their own painstaking
and exhaustive experiments prove that if there is a master fool in the world, it is the bee.
That seems to settle it.

But that is the way of the scientist. He will spend thirty years in building up a mountain
range of facts with the intent to prove a certain theory; then he is so happy in his achievement
that as a rule he overlooks the main chief fact of all--that his accumulation proves an entirely
different thing. When you point out this miscarriage to him he does not answer your letters;
when you call to convince him, the servant prevaricates and you do not get in. Scientists have
odious manners, except when you prop up their theory; then you can borrow money of them.

To be strictly fair, I will concede that now and then one of them will answer your letter,
but when they do they avoid the issue--you cannot pin them down. When I discovered that the
bee was human I wrote about it to all those scientists whom I have just mentioned. For evasions,
I have seen nothing to equal the answers I got.

After the queen, the personage next in importance in the hive is the virgin. The virgins are
fifty thousand or one hundred thousand in number, and they are the workers, the laborers. No
work is done, in the hive or out of it, save by them. The males do not work, the queen does
no work, unless laying eggs is work, but it does not seem so to me. There are only two million
of them, anyway, and all of five months to finish the contract in. The distribution of work
in a hive is as cleverly and elaborately specialized as it is in a vast American machine-shop
or factory. A bee that has been trained to one of the many and various industries of the concern
doesn't know how to exercise any other, and would be offended if asked to take a hand in anything
outside of her profession. She is as human as a cook; and if you should ask the cook to wait
on the table, you know what will happen. Cooks will play the piano if you like, but they draw
the line there. In my time I have asked a cook to chop wood, and I know about these things.
Even the hired girl has her frontiers; true, they are vague, they are ill-defined, even flexible,
but they are there. This is not conjecture; it is founded on the absolute. And then the butler.
You ask the butler to wash the dog. It is just as I say; there is much to be learned in these
ways, without going to books. Books are very well, but books do not cover the whole domain
of esthetic human culture. Pride of profession is one of the boniest bones in existence, if
not the boniest. Without doubt it is so in the hive.

TAMING THE BICYCLE

In the early eighties Mark Twain learned to ride one of the old high-wheel bicycles of that
period. He wrote an account of his experience, but did not offer it for publication. The form
of bicycle he rode long ago became antiquated, but in the humor of his pleasantry is a quality
which does not grow old.

A. B. P.

I

I thought the matter over, and concluded I could do it. So I went down a bought a barrel of
Pond's Extract and a bicycle. The Expert came home with me to instruct me. We chose the back
yard, for the sake of privacy, and went to work.

Mine was not a full-grown bicycle, but only a colt--a fifty-inch, with the pedals shortened
up to forty-eight--and skittish, like any other colt. The Expert explained the thing's points
briefly, then he got on its back and rode around a little, to show me how easy it was to do.
He said that the dismounting was perhaps the hardest thing to learn, and so we would leave
that to the last. But he was in error there. He found, to his surprise and joy, that all that
he needed to do was to get me on to the machine and stand out of the way; I could get off,
myself. Although I was wholly inexperienced, I dismounted in the best time on record. He was
on that side, shoving up the machine; we all came down with a crash, he at the bottom, I next,
and the machine on top.

We examined the machine, but it was not in the least injured. This was hardly believable. Yet
the Expert assured me that it was true; in fact, the examination proved it. I was partly to
realize, then, how admirably these things are constructed. We applied some Pond's Extract,
and resumed. The Expert got on the OTHER side to shove up this time, but I dismounted on that
side; so the result was as before.

The machine was not hurt. We oiled ourselves again, and resumed. This time the Expert took
up a sheltered position behind, but somehow or other we landed on him again.

He was full of admiration; said it was abnormal. She was all right, not a scratch on her, not
a timber started anywhere. I said it was wonderful, while we were greasing up, but he said
that when I came to know these steel spider-webs I would realize that nothing but dynamite
could cripple them. Then he limped out to position, and we resumed once more. This time the
Expert took up the position of short-stop, and got a man to shove up behind. We got up a handsome
speed, and presently traversed a brick, and I went out over the top of the tiller and landed,
head down, on the instructor's back, and saw the machine fluttering in the air between me and
the sun. It was well it came down on us, for that broke the fall, and it was not injured.

Five days later I got out and was carried down to the hospital, and found the Expert doing
pretty fairly. In a few more days I was quite sound. I attribute this to my prudence in always
dismounting on something soft. Some recommend a feather bed, but I think an Expert is better.

The Expert got out at last, brought four assistants with him. It was a good idea. These four
held the graceful cobweb upright while I climbed into the saddle; then they formed in column
and marched on either side of me while the Expert pushed behind; all hands assisted at the
dismount.

The bicycle had what is called the "wabbles," and had them very badly. In order to keep my
position, a good many things were required of me, and in every instance the thing required
was against nature. That is to say, that whatever the needed thing might be, my nature, habit,
and breeding moved me to attempt it in one way, while some immutable and unsuspected law of
physics required that it be done in just the other way. I perceived by this how radically and
grotesquely wrong had been the life-long education of my body and members. They were steeped
in ignorance; they knew nothing--nothing which it could profit them to know. For instance,
if I found myself falling to the right, I put the tiller hard down the other way, by a quite
natural impulse, and so violated a law, and kept on going down. The law required the opposite
thing--the big wheel must be turned in the direction in which you are falling. It is hard to
believe this, when you are told it. And not merely hard to believe it, but impossible; it is
opposed to all your notions. And it is just as hard to do it, after you do come to believe
it. Believing it, and knowing by the most convincing proof that it is true, does not help it:
you can't any more DO it than you could before; you can neither force nor persuade yourself
to do it at first. The intellect has to come to the front, now. It has to teach the limbs to
discard their old education and adopt the new.

The steps of one's progress are distinctly marked. At the end of each lesson he knows he has
acquired something, and he also knows what that something is, and likewise that it will stay
with him. It is not like studying German, where you mull along, in a groping, uncertain way,
for thirty years; and at last, just as you think you've got it, they spring the subjunctive
on you, and there you are. No--and I see now, plainly enough, that the great pity about the
German language is, that you can't fall off it and hurt yourself. There is nothing like that
feature to make you attend strictly to business. But I also see, by what I have learned of
bicycling, that the right and only sure way to learn German is by the bicycling method. That
is to say, take a grip on one villainy of it at a time, leaving that one half learned.

When you have reached the point in bicycling where you can balance the machine tolerably fairly
and propel it and steer it, then comes your next task--how to mount it. You do it in this way:
you hop along behind it on your right foot, resting the other on the mounting-peg, and grasping
the tiller with your hands. At the word, you rise on the peg, stiffen your left leg, hang your
other one around in the air in a general in indefinite way, lean your stomach against the rear
of the saddle, and then fall off, maybe on one side, maybe on the other; but you fall off.
You get up and do it again; and once more; and then several times.

By this time you have learned to keep your balance; and also to steer without wrenching the
tiller out by the roots (I say tiller because it IS a tiller; "handle-bar" is a lamely descriptive
phrase). So you steer along, straight ahead, a little while, then you rise forward, with a
steady strain, bringing your right leg, and then your body, into the saddle, catch your breath,
fetch a violent hitch this way and then that, and down you go again.

But you have ceased to mind the going down by this time; you are getting to light on one foot
or the other with considerable certainty. Six more attempts and six more falls make you perfect.
You land in the saddle comfortably, next time, and stay there--that is, if you can be content
to let your legs dangle, and leave the pedals alone a while; but if you grab at once for the
pedals, you are gone again. You soon learn to wait a little and perfect your balance before
reaching for the pedals; then the mounting-art is acquired, is complete, and a little practice
will make it simple and easy to you, though spectators ought to keep off a rod or two to one
side, along at first, if you have nothing against them.

And now you come to the voluntary dismount; you learned the other kind first of all. It is
quite easy to tell one how to do the voluntary dismount; the words are few, the requirement
simple, and apparently undifficult; let your left pedal go down till your left leg is nearly
straight, turn your wheel to the left, and get off as you would from a horse. It certainly
does sound exceedingly easy; but it isn't. I don't know why it isn't but it isn't. Try as you
may, you don't get down as you would from a horse, you get down as you would from a house afire.
You make a spectacle of yourself every time.

II

During the eight days I took a daily lesson an hour and a half. At the end of this twelve working-hours'
apprenticeship I was graduated--in the rough. I was pronounced competent to paddle my own bicycle
without outside help. It seems incredible, this celerity of acquirement. It takes considerably
longer than that to learn horseback-riding in the rough.

Now it is true that I could have learned without a teacher, but it would have been risky for
me, because of my natural clumsiness. The self-taught man seldom knows anything accurately,
and he does not know a tenth as much as he could have known if he had worked under teachers;
and, besides, he brags, and is the means of fooling other thoughtless people into going and
doing as he himself has done. There are those who imagine that the unlucky accidents of life--life's
"experiences"--are in some way useful to us. I wish I could find out how. I never knew one
of them to happen twice. They always change off and swap around and catch you on your inexperienced
side. If personal experience can be worth anything as an education, it wouldn't seem likely
that you could trip Methuselah; and yet if that old person could come back here it is more
that likely that one of the first things he would do would be to take hold of one of these
electric wires and tie himself all up in a knot. Now the surer thing and the wiser thing would
be for him to ask somebody whether it was a good thing to take hold of. But that would not
suit him; he would be one of the self-taught kind that go by experience; he would want to examine
for himself. And he would find, for his instruction, that the coiled patriarch shuns the electric
wire; and it would be useful to him, too, and would leave his education in quite a complete
and rounded-out condition, till he should come again, some day, and go to bouncing a dynamite-can
around to find out what was in it.

But we wander from the point. However, get a teacher; it saves much time and Pond's Extract.

Before taking final leave of me, my instructor inquired concerning my physical strength, and
I was able to inform him that I hadn't any. He said that that was a defect which would make
up-hill wheeling pretty difficult for me at first; but he also said the bicycle would soon
remove it. The contrast between his muscles and mine was quite marked. He wanted to test mine,
so I offered my biceps--which was my best. It almost made him smile. He said, "It is pulpy,
and soft, and yielding, and rounded; it evades pressure, and glides from under the fingers;
in the dark a body might think it was an oyster in a rag." Perhaps this made me look grieved,
for he added, briskly: "Oh, that's all right, you needn't worry about that; in a little while
you can't tell it from a petrified kidney. Just go right along with your practice; you're all
right."

Then he left me, and I started out alone to seek adventures. You don't really have to seek
them--that is nothing but a phrase--they come to you.

I chose a reposeful Sabbath-day sort of a back street which was about thirty yards wide between
the curbstones. I knew it was not wide enough; still, I thought that by keeping strict watch
and wasting no space unnecessarily I could crowd through.

Of course I had trouble mounting the machine, entirely on my own responsibility, with no encouraging
moral support from the outside, no sympathetic instructor to say, "Good! now you're doing well--good
again--don't hurry--there, now, you're all right--brace up, go ahead." In place of this I had
some other support. This was a boy, who was perched on a gate-post munching a hunk of maple sugar.

He was full of interest and comment. The first time I failed and went down he said that if
he was me he would dress up in pillows, that's what he would do. The next time I went down
he advised me to go and learn to ride a tricycle first. The third time I collapsed he said
he didn't believe I could stay on a horse-car. But the next time I succeeded, and got clumsily
under way in a weaving, tottering, uncertain fashion, and occupying pretty much all of the
street. My slow and lumbering gait filled the boy to the chin with scorn, and he sung out,
"My, but don't he rip along!" Then he got down from his post and loafed along the sidewalk,
still observing and occasionally commenting. Presently he dropped into my wake and followed
along behind. A little girl passed by, balancing a wash-board on her head, and giggled, and
seemed about to make a remark, but the boy said, rebukingly, "Let him alone, he's going to
a funeral."

I have been familiar with that street for years, and had always supposed it was a dead level;
but it was not, as the bicycle now informed me, to my surprise. The bicycle, in the hands of
a novice, is as alert and acute as a spirit-level in the detecting the delicate and vanishing
shades of difference in these matters. It notices a rise where your untrained eye would not
observe that one existed; it notices any decline which water will run down. I was toiling up
a slight rise, but was not aware of it. It made me tug and pant and perspire; and still, labor
as I might, the machine came almost to a standstill every little while. At such times the boy
would say: "That's it! take a rest--there ain't no hurry. They can't hold the funeral without YOU."

Stones were a bother to me. Even the smallest ones gave me a panic when I went over them. I
could hit any kind of a stone, no matter how small, if I tried to miss it; and of course at
first I couldn't help trying to do that. It is but natural. It is part of the ass that is put
in us all, for some inscrutable reason.

It was at the end of my course, at last, and it was necessary for me to round to. This is not
a pleasant thing, when you undertake it for the first time on your own responsibility, and
neither is it likely to succeed. Your confidence oozes away, you fill steadily up with nameless
apprehensions, every fiber of you is tense with a watchful strain, you start a cautious and
gradual curve, but your squirmy nerves are all full of electric anxieties, so the curve is
quickly demoralized into a jerky and perilous zigzag; then suddenly the nickel-clad horse takes
the bit in its mouth and goes slanting for the curbstone, defying all prayers and all your
powers to change its mind--your heart stands still, your breath hangs fire, your legs forget
to work, straight on you go, and there are but a couple of feet between you and the curb now.
And now is the desperate moment, the last chance to save yourself; of course all your instructions
fly out of your head, and you whirl your wheel AWAY from the curb instead of TOWARD it, and
so you go sprawling on that granite-bound inhospitable shore. That was my luck; that was my
experience. I dragged myself out from under the indestructible bicycle and sat down on the
curb to examine.

I started on the return trip. It was now that I saw a farmer's wagon poking along down toward
me, loaded with cabbages. If I needed anything to perfect the precariousness of my steering,
it was just that. The farmer was occupying the middle of the road with his wagon, leaving barely
fourteen or fifteen yards of space on either side. I couldn't shout at him--a beginner can't
shout; if he opens his mouth he is gone; he must keep all his attention on his business. But
in this grisly emergency, the boy came to the rescue, and for once I had to be grateful to
him. He kept a sharp lookout on the swiftly varying impulses and inspirations of my bicycle,
and shouted to the man accordingly:

"To the left! Turn to the left, or this jackass 'll run over you!" The man started to do it.
"No, to the right, to the right! Hold on! THAT won't do!--to the left!--to the right!--to the
LEFT--right! left--ri--Stay where you ARE, or you're a goner!"

And just then I caught the off horse in the starboard and went down in a pile. I said, "Hang
it! Couldn't you SEE I was coming?"

"Yes, I see you was coming, but I couldn't tell which WAY you was coming. Nobody could--now,
COULD they? You couldn't yourself--now, COULD you? So what could I do?"

There was something in that, and so I had the magnanimity to say so. I said I was no doubt
as much to blame as he was.

Within the next five days I achieved so much progress that the boy couldn't keep up with me.
He had to go back to his gate-post, and content himself with watching me fall at long range.

There was a row of low stepping-stones across one end of the street, a measured yard apart.
Even after I got so I could steer pretty fairly I was so afraid of those stones that I always
hit them. They gave me the worst falls I ever got in that street, except those which I got
from dogs. I have seen it stated that no expert is quick enough to run over a dog; that a dog
is always able to skip out of his way. I think that that may be true: but I think that the
reason he couldn't run over the dog was because he was trying to. I did not try to run over
any dog. But I ran over every dog that came along. I think it makes a great deal of difference.
If you try to run over the dog he knows how to calculate, but if you are trying to miss him
he does not know how to calculate, and is liable to jump the wrong way every time. It was always
so in my experience. Even when I could not hit a wagon I could hit a dog that came to see me
practice. They all liked to see me practice, and they all came, for there was very little going
on in our neighborhood to entertain a dog. It took time to learn to miss a dog, but I achieved
even that.

I can steer as well as I want to, now, and I will catch that boy one of these days and run
over HIM if he doesn't reform.

Get a bicycle. You will not regret it, if you live.

IS SHAKESPEARE DEAD?

(from My Autobiography)

Scattered here and there through the stacks of unpublished manuscript which constitute this
formidable Autobiography and Diary of mine, certain chapters will in some distant future be
found which deal with "Claimants"--claimants historically notorious: Satan, Claimant; the Golden
Calf, Claimant; the Veiled Prophet of Khorassan, Claimant; Louis XVII., Claimant; William Shakespeare,
Claimant; Arthur Orton, Claimant; Mary Baker G. Eddy, Claimant--and the rest of them. Eminent
Claimants, successful Claimants, defeated Claimants, royal Claimants, pleb Claimants, showy
Claimants, shabby Claimants, revered Claimants, despised Claimants, twinkle star-like here
and there and yonder through the mists of history and legend and tradition--and, oh, all the
darling tribe are clothed in mystery and romance, and we read about them with deep interest
and discuss them with loving sympathy or with rancorous resentment, according to which side
we hitch ourselves to. It has always been so with the human race. There was never a Claimant
that couldn't get a hearing, nor one that couldn't accumulate a rapturous following, no matter
how flimsy and apparently unauthentic his claim might be. Arthur Orton's claim that he was
the lost Tichborne baronet come to life again was as flimsy as Mrs. Eddy's that she wrote SCIENCE
AND HEALTH from the direct dictation of the Deity; yet in England nearly forty years ago Orton
had a huge army of devotees and incorrigible adherents, many of whom remained stubbornly unconvinced
after their fat god had been proven an impostor and jailed as a perjurer, and today Mrs. Eddy's
following is not only immense, but is daily augmenting in numbers and enthusiasm. Orton had
many fine and educated minds among his adherents, Mrs. Eddy has had the like among hers from
the beginning. Her Church is as well equipped in those particulars as is any other Church.
Claimants can always count upon a following, it doesn't matter who they are, nor what they
claim, nor whether they come with documents or without. It was always so. Down out of the long-vanished
past, across the abyss of the ages, if you listen, you can still hear the believing multitudes
shouting for Perkin Warbeck and Lambert Simnel.

A friend has sent me a new book, from England--THE SHAKESPEARE PROBLEM RESTATED--well restated
and closely reasoned; and my fifty years' interest in that matter--asleep for the last three
years--is excited once more. It is an interest which was born of Delia Bacon's book--away back
in the ancient day--1857, or maybe 1856. About a year later my pilot-master, Bixby, transferred
me from his own steamboat to the PENNSYLVANIA, and placed me under the orders and instructions
of George Ealer--dead now, these many, many years. I steered for him a good many months--as
was the humble duty of the pilot-apprentice: stood a daylight watch and spun the wheel under
the severe superintendence and correction of the master. He was a prime chess-player and an
idolater of Shakespeare. He would play chess with anybody; even with me, and it cost his official
dignity something to do that. Also--quite uninvited--he would read Shakespeare to me; not just
casually, but by the hour, when it was his watch and I was steering. He read well, but not
profitably for me, because he constantly injected commands into the text. That broke it all
up, mixed it all up, tangled it all up--to that degree, in fact, that if we were in a risky
and difficult piece of river an ignorant person couldn't have told, sometimes, which observations
were Shakespeare's and which were Ealer's. For instance:

What man dare, I dare!

Approach thou WHAT are you laying in the leads for? what a hell of an idea! like the rugged
ease her off a little, ease her off! rugged Russian bear, the armed rhinoceros or the THERE
she goes! meet her, meet her! didn't you KNOW she'd smell the reef if you crowded in like that?
Hyrcan tiger; take any ship but that and my firm nerves she'll be in the WOODS the first you
know! stop he starboard! come ahead strong on the larboard! back the starboard!... NOW then,
you're all right; come ahead on the starboard; straighten up and go 'long, never tremble: or
be alive again, and dare me to the desert DAMNATION can't you keep away from that greasy water?
pull her down! snatch her! snatch her baldheaded! with thy sword; if trembling I inhabit then,
lay in the leads!--no, only with the starboard one, leave the other alone, protest me the baby
of a girl. Hence horrible shadow! eight bells--that watchman's asleep again, I reckon, go down
and call Brown yourself, unreal mockery, hence!

He certainly was a good reader, and splendidly thrilling and stormy and tragic, but it was
a damage to me, because I have never since been able to read Shakespeare in a calm and sane
way. I cannot rid it of his explosive interlardings, they break in everywhere with their irrelevant,
"What in hell are you up to NOW! pull her down! more! MORE!--there now, steady as you go,"
and the other disorganizing interruptions that were always leaping from his mouth. When I read
Shakespeare now I can hear them as plainly as I did in that long-departed time--fifty-one years
ago. I never regarded Ealer's readings as educational. Indeed, they were a detriment to me.

His contributions to the text seldom improved it, but barring that detail he was a good reader;
I can say that much for him. He did not use the book, and did not need to; he knew his Shakespeare
as well as Euclid ever knew his multiplication table.

Did he have something to say--this Shakespeare-adoring Mississippi pilot--anent Delia Bacon's book?

Yes. And he said it; said it all the time, for months--in the morning watch, the middle watch,
and dog watch; and probably kept it going in his sleep. He bought the literature of the dispute
as fast as it appeared, and we discussed it all through thirteen hundred miles of river four
times traversed in every thirty-five days--the time required by that swift boat to achieve
two round trips. We discussed, and discussed, and discussed, and disputed and disputed and
disputed; at any rate, HE did, and I got in a word now and then when he slipped a cog and there
was a vacancy. He did his arguing with heat, with energy, with violence; and I did mine with
the reverse and moderation of a subordinate who does not like to be flung out of a pilot-house
and is perched forty feet above the water. He was fiercely loyal to Shakespeare and cordially
scornful of Bacon and of all the pretensions of the Baconians. So was I--at first. And at first
he was glad that that was my attitude. There were even indications that he admired it; indications
dimmed, it is true, by the distance that lay between the lofty boss-pilotical altitude and
my lowly one, yet perceptible to me; perceptible, and translatable into a compliment--compliment
coming down from about the snow-line and not well thawed in the transit, and not likely to
set anything afire, not even a cub-pilot's self-conceit; still a detectable complement, and
precious.

Naturally it flattered me into being more loyal to Shakespeare--if possible--than I was before,
and more prejudiced against Bacon--if possible--that I was before. And so we discussed and
discussed, both on the same side, and were happy. For a while. Only for a while. Only for a
very little while, a very, very, very little while. Then the atmosphere began to change; began
to cool off.

A brighter person would have seen what the trouble was, earlier than I did, perhaps, but I
saw it early enough for all practical purposes. You see, he was of an argumentative disposition.
Therefore it took him but a little time to get tired of arguing with a person who agreed with
everything he said and consequently never furnished him a provocative to flare up and show
what he could do when it came to clear, cold, hard, rose-cut, hundred-faceted, diamond-flashing
REASONING. That was his name for it. It has been applied since, with complacency, as many as
several times, in the Bacon-Shakespeare scuffle. On the Shakespeare side.

Then the thing happened which has happened to more persons than to me when principle and personal
interest found themselves in opposition to each other and a choice had to be made: I let principle
go, and went over to the other side. Not the entire way, but far enough to answer the requirements
of the case. That is to say, I took this attitude--to wit, I only BELIEVED Bacon wrote Shakespeare,
whereas I KNEW Shakespeare didn't. Ealer was satisfied with that, and the war broke loose.
Study, practice, experience in handling my end of the matter presently enabled me to take my
new position almost seriously; a little bit later, utterly seriously; a little later still,
lovingly, gratefully, devotedly; finally: fiercely, rabidly, uncompromisingly. After that I
was welded to my faith, I was theoretically ready to die for it, and I looked down with compassion
not unmixed with scorn upon everybody else's faith that didn't tally with mine. That faith,
imposed upon me by self-interest in that ancient day, remains my faith today, and in it I find
comfort, solace, peace, and never-failing joy. You see how curiously theological it is. The
"rice Christian" of the Orient goes through the very same steps, when he is after rice and
the missionary is after HIM; he goes for rice, and remains to worship.

Ealer did a lot of our "reasoning"--not to say substantially all of it. The slaves of his cult
have a passion for calling it by that large name. We others do not call our inductions and
deductions and reductions by any name at all. They show for themselves what they are, and we
can with tranquil confidence leave the world to ennoble them with a title of its own choosing.

Now and then when Ealer had to stop to cough, I pulled my induction-talents together and hove
the controversial lead myself: always getting eight feet, eight and a half, often nine, sometimes
even quarter-less-twain--as I believed; but always "no bottom," as HE said.

I got the best of him only once. I prepared myself. I wrote out a passage from Shakespeare--it
may have been the very one I quoted awhile ago, I don't remember--and riddled it with his wild
steamboatful interlardings. When an unrisky opportunity offered, one lovely summer day, when
we had sounded and buoyed a tangled patch of crossings known as Hell's Half Acre, and were
aboard again and he had sneaked the PENNSYLVANIA triumphantly through it without once scraping
sand, and the A. T. LACEY had followed in our wake and got stuck, and he was feeling good,
I showed it to him. It amused him. I asked him to fire it off--READ it; read it, I diplomatically
added, as only HE could read dramatic poetry. The compliment touched him where he lived. He
did read it; read it with surpassing fire and spirit; read it as it will never be read again;
for HE know how to put the right music into those thunderous interlardings and make them seem
a part of the text, make them sound as if they were bursting from Shakespeare's own soul, each
one of them a golden inspiration and not to be left out without damage to the massed and magnificent
whole.

I waited a week, to let the incident fade; waited longer; waited until he brought up for reasonings
and vituperation my pet position, my pet argument, the one which I was fondest of, the one
which I prized far above all others in my ammunition-wagon--to wit, that Shakespeare couldn't
have written Shakespeare's words, for the reason that the man who wrote them was limitlessly
familiar with the laws, and the law-courts, and law-proceedings, and lawyer-talk, and lawyer-ways--and
if Shakespeare was possessed of the infinitely divided star-dust that constituted this vast
wealth, HOW did he get it, and WHERE and WHEN?

"From books."

From books! That was always the idea. I answered as my readings of the champions of my side
of the great controversy had taught me to answer: that a man can't handle glibly and easily
and comfortably and successfully the argot of a trade at which he has not personally served.
He will make mistakes; he will not, and cannot, get the trade-phrasings precisely and exactly
right; and the moment he departs, by even a shade, from a common trade-form, the reader who
has served that trade will know the writer HASN'T. Ealer would not be convinced; he said a
man could learn how to correctly handle the subtleties and mysteries and free-masonries of
ANY trade by careful reading and studying. But when I got him to read again the passage from
Shakespeare with the interlardings, he perceived, himself, that books couldn't teach a student
a bewildering multitude of pilot-phrases so thoroughly and perfectly that he could talk them
off in book and play or conversation and make no mistake that a pilot would not immediately
discover. It was a triumph for me. He was silent awhile, and I knew what was happening--he
was losing his temper. And I knew he would presently close the session with the same old argument
that was always his stay and his support in time of need; the same old argument, the one I
couldn't answer, because I dasn't--the argument that I was an ass, and better shut up. He delivered
it, and I obeyed.

O dear, how long ago it was--how pathetically long ago! And here am I, old, forsaken, forlorn,
and alone, arranging to get that argument out of somebody again.

When a man has a passion for Shakespeare, it goes without saying that he keeps company with
other standard authors. Ealer always had several high-class books in the pilot-house, and he
read the same ones over and over again, and did not care to change to newer and fresher ones.
He played well on the flute, and greatly enjoyed hearing himself play. So did I. He had a notion
that a flute would keep its health better if you took it apart when it was not standing a watch;
and so, when it was not on duty it took its rest, disjointed, on the compass-shelf under the
breastboard. When the PENNSYLVANIA blew up and became a drifting rack-heap freighted with wounded
and dying poor souls (my young brother Henry among them), pilot Brown had the watch below,
and was probably asleep and never knew what killed him; but Ealer escaped unhurt. He and his
pilot-house were shot up into the air; then they fell, and Ealer sank through the ragged cavern
where the hurricane-deck and the boiler-deck had been, and landed in a nest of ruins on the
main deck, on top of one of the unexploded boilers, where he lay prone in a fog of scald and
deadly steam. But not for long. He did not lose his head--long familiarity with danger had
taught him to keep it, in any and all emergencies. He held his coat-lapels to his nose with
one hand, to keep out the steam, and scrabbled around with the other till he found the joints
of his flute, then he took measures to save himself alive, and was successful. I was not on
board. I had been put ashore in New Orleans by Captain Klinenfelter. The reason--however, I
have told all about it in the book called OLD TIMES ON THE MISSISSIPPI, and it isn't important,
anyway, it is so long ago.

II

When I was a Sunday-school scholar, something more than sixty years ago, I became interested
in Satan, and wanted to find out all I could about him. I began to ask questions, but my class-teacher,
Mr. Barclay, the stone-mason, was reluctant about answering them, it seemed to me. I was anxious
to be praised for turning my thoughts to serious subjects when there wasn't another boy in
the village who could be hired to do such a thing. I was greatly interested in the incident
of Eve and the serpent, and thought Eve's calmness was perfectly noble. I asked Mr. Barclay
if he had ever heard of another woman who, being approached by a serpent, would not excuse
herself and break for the nearest timber. He did not answer my question, but rebuked me for
inquiring into matters above my age and comprehension. I will say for Mr. Barclay that he was
willing to tell me the facts of Satan's history, but he stopped there: he wouldn't allow any
discussion of them.

In the course of time we exhausted the facts. There were only five or six of them; you could
set them all down on a visiting-card. I was disappointed. I had been meditating a biography,
and was grieved to find that there were no materials. I said as much, with the tears running
down. Mr. Barclay's sympathy and compassion were aroused, for he was a most kind and gentle-spirited
man, and he patted me on the head and cheered me up by saying there was a whole vast ocean
of materials! I can still feel the happy thrill which these blessed words shot through me.

Then he began to bail out that ocean's riches for my encouragement and joy. Like this: it was
"conjectured"--though not established--that Satan was originally an angel in Heaven; that he
fell; that he rebelled, and brought on a war; that he was defeated, and banished to perdition.
Also, "we have reason to believe" that later he did so and so; that "we are warranted in supposing"
that at a subsequent time he traveled extensively, seeking whom he might devour; that a couple
of centuries afterward, "as tradition instructs us," he took up the cruel trade of tempting
people to their ruin, with vast and fearful results; that by and by, "as the probabilities
seem to indicate," he may have done certain things, he might have done certain other things,
he must have done still other things.

And so on and so on. We set down the five known facts by themselves on a piece of paper, and
numbered it "page 1"; then on fifteen hundred other pieces of paper we set down the "conjectures,"
and "suppositions," and "maybes," and "perhapses," and "doubtlesses," and "rumors," and "guesses,"
and "probabilities," and "likelihoods," and "we are permitted to thinks," and "we are warranted
in believings," and "might have beens," and "could have beens," and "must have beens," and
"unquestionablys," and "without a shadow of doubt"--and behold!

MATERIALS? Why, we had enough to build a biography of Shakespeare!

Yet he made me put away my pen; he would not let me write the history of Satan. Why? Because,
as he said, he had suspicions--suspicions that my attitude in the matter was not reverent,
and that a person must be reverent when writing about the sacred characters. He said any one
who spoke flippantly of Satan would be frowned upon by the religious world and also be brought
to account.

I assured him, in earnest and sincere words, that he had wholly misconceived my attitude; that
I had the highest respect for Satan, and that my reverence for him equaled, and possibly even
exceeded, that of any member of the church. I said it wounded me deeply to perceive by his
words that he thought I would make fun of Satan, and deride him, laugh at him, scoff at him;
whereas in truth I had never thought of such a thing, but had only a warm desire to make fun
of those others and laugh at THEM. "What others?" "Why, the Supposers, the Perhapsers, the
Might-Have-Beeners, the Could-Have-Beeners, the Must-Have-Beeners, the Without-a-Shadow-of-Doubters,
the We-Are-Warranted-in-Believingers, and all that funny crop of solemn architects who have
taken a good solid foundation of five indisputable and unimportant facts and built upon it
a Conjectural Satan thirty miles high."

What did Mr. Barclay do then? Was he disarmed? Was he silenced? No. He was shocked. He was
so shocked that he visibly shuddered. He said the Satanic Traditioners and Perhapsers and Conjecturers
were THEMSELVES sacred! As sacred as their work. So sacred that whoso ventured to mock them
or make fun of their work, could not afterward enter any respectable house, even by the back door.

How true were his words, and how wise! How fortunate it would have been for me if I had heeded
them. But I was young, I was but seven years of age, and vain, foolish, and anxious to attract
attention. I wrote the biography, and have never been in a respectable house since.

III

How curious and interesting is the parallel--as far as poverty of biographical details is concerned--between
Satan and Shakespeare. It is wonderful, it is unique, it stands quite alone, there is nothing
resembling it in history, nothing resembling it in romance, nothing approaching it even in
tradition. How sublime is their position, and how over-topping, how sky-reaching, how supreme--the
two Great Unknowns, the two Illustrious Conjecturabilities! They are the best-known unknown
persons that have ever drawn breath upon the planet.

For the instruction of the ignorant I will make a list, now, of those details of Shakespeare's
history which are FACTS--verified facts, established facts, undisputed facts.

Facts

He was born on the 23d of April, 1564.

Of good farmer-class parents who could not read, could not write, could not sign their names.

At Stratford, a small back settlement which in that day was shabby and unclean, and densely
illiterate. Of the nineteen important men charged with the government of the town, thirteen
had to "make their mark" in attesting important documents, because they could not write their
names.

Of the first eighteen years of his life NOTHING is known. They are a blank.

On the 27th of November (1582) William Shakespeare took out a license to marry Anne Whateley.

Next day William Shakespeare took out a license to marry Anne Hathaway. She was eight years
his senior.

William Shakespeare married Anne Hathaway. In a hurry. By grace of a reluctantly granted dispensation
there was but one publication of the banns.

Within six months the first child was born.

About two (blank) years followed, during which period NOTHING AT ALL HAPPENED TO SHAKESPEARE,
so far as anybody knows.

Then came twins--1585. February.

Two blank years follow.

Then--1587--he makes a ten-year visit to London, leaving the family behind.

Five blank years follow. During this period NOTHING HAPPENED TO HIM, as far as anybody actually
knows.

Then--1592--there is mention of him as an actor.

Next year--1593--his name appears in the official list of players.

Next year--1594--he played before the queen. A detail of no consequence: other obscurities
did it every year of the forty-five of her reign. And remained obscure.

Three pretty full years follow. Full of play-acting. Then

In 1597 he bought New Place, Stratford.

Thirteen or fourteen busy years follow; years in which he accumulated money, and also reputation
as actor and manager.

Meantime his name, liberally and variously spelt, had become associated with a number of great
plays and poems, as (ostensibly) author of the same.

Some of these, in these years and later, were pirated, but he made no protest.

Then--1610-11--he returned to Stratford and settled down for good and all, and busied himself
in lending money, trading in tithes, trading in land and houses; shirking a debt of forty-one
shillings, borrowed by his wife during his long desertion of his family; suing debtors for
shillings and coppers; being sued himself for shillings and coppers; and acting as confederate
to a neighbor who tried to rob the town of its rights in a certain common, and did not succeed.

He lived five or six years--till 1616--in the joy of these elevated pursuits. Then he made
a will, and signed each of its three pages with his name.

A thoroughgoing business man's will. It named in minute detail every item of property he owned
in the world--houses, lands, sword, silver-gilt bowl, and so on--all the way down to his "second-best
bed" and its furniture.

It carefully and calculatingly distributed his riches among the members of his family, overlooking
no individual of it. Not even his wife: the wife he had been enabled to marry in a hurry by
urgent grace of a special dispensation before he was nineteen; the wife whom he had left husbandless
so many years; the wife who had had to borrow forty-one shillings in her need, and which the
lender was never able to collect of the prosperous husband, but died at last with the money
still lacking. No, even this wife was remembered in Shakespeare's will.

He left her that "second-best bed."

And NOT ANOTHER THING; not even a penny to bless her lucky widowhood with.

It was eminently and conspicuously a business man's will, not a poet's.

It mentioned NOT A SINGLE BOOK.

Books were much more precious than swords and silver-gilt bowls and second-best beds in those
days, and when a departing person owned one he gave it a high place in his will.

The will mentioned NOT A PLAY, NOT A POEM, NOT AN UNFINISHED LITERARY WORK, NOT A SCRAP OF
MANUSCRIPT OF ANY KIND.

Many poets have died poor, but this is the only one in history that has died THIS poor; the
others all left literary remains behind. Also a book. Maybe two.

If Shakespeare had owned a dog--but we not go into that: we know he would have mentioned it
in his will. If a good dog, Susanna would have got it; if an inferior one his wife would have
got a downer interest in it. I wish he had had a dog, just so we could see how painstakingly
he would have divided that dog among the family, in his careful business way.

He signed the will in three places.

In earlier years he signed two other official documents.

These five signatures still exist.

There are NO OTHER SPECIMENS OF HIS PENMANSHIP IN EXISTENCE. Not a line.

Was he prejudiced against the art? His granddaughter, whom he loved, was eight years old when
he died, yet she had had no teaching, he left no provision for her education, although he was
rich, and in her mature womanhood she couldn't write and couldn't tell her husband's manuscript
from anybody else's--she thought it was Shakespeare's.

When Shakespeare died in Stratford, IT WAS NOT AN EVENT. It made no more stir in England than
the death of any other forgotten theater-actor would have made. Nobody came down from London;
there were no lamenting poems, no eulogies, no national tears--there was merely silence, and
nothing more. A striking contrast with what happened when Ben Jonson, and Francis Bacon, and
Spenser, and Raleigh, and the other distinguished literary folk of Shakespeare's time passed
from life! No praiseful voice was lifted for the lost Bard of Avon; even Ben Jonson waited
seven years before he lifted his.

SO FAR AS ANYBODY ACTUALLY KNOWS AND CAN PROVE, Shakespeare of Stratford-on-Avon never wrote
a play in his life.

SO FAR AS ANY ONE KNOWS, HE RECEIVED ONLY ONE LETTER DURING HIS LIFE.

So far as any one KNOWS AND CAN PROVE, Shakespeare of Stratford wrote only one poem during
his life. This one is authentic. He did write that one--a fact which stands undisputed; he
wrote the whole of it; he wrote the whole of it out of his own head. He commanded that this
work of art be engraved upon his tomb, and he was obeyed. There it abides to this day. This is it:

Good friend for Iesus sake forbeare To digg the dust encloased heare: Blest be ye man yt spares
thes stones And curst be he yt moves my bones.

In the list as above set down will be found EVERY POSITIVELY KNOWN fact of Shakespeare's life,
lean and meager as the invoice is. Beyond these details we know NOT A THING about him. All
the rest of his vast history, as furnished by the biographers, is built up, course upon course,
of guesses, inferences, theories, conjectures--an Eiffel Tower of artificialities rising sky-high
from a very flat and very thin foundation of inconsequential facts.

IV

Conjectures

The historians "suppose" that Shakespeare attended the Free School in Stratford from the time
he was seven years old till he was thirteen. There is no EVIDENCE in existence that he ever
went to school at all.

The historians "infer" that he got his Latin in that school--the school which they "suppose"
he attended.

They "suppose" his father's declining fortunes made it necessary for him to leave the school
they supposed he attended, and get to work and help support his parents and their ten children.
But there is no evidence that he ever entered or returned from the school they suppose he attended.

They "suppose" he assisted his father in the butchering business; and that, being only a boy,
he didn't have to do full-grown butchering, but only slaughtering calves. Also, that whenever
he killed a calf he made a high-flown speech over it. This supposition rests upon the testimony
of a man who wasn't there at the time; a man who got it from a man who could have been there,
but did not say whether he was nor not; and neither of them thought to mention it for decades,
and decades, and decades, and two more decades after Shakespeare's death (until old age and
mental decay had refreshed and vivified their memories). They hadn't two facts in stock about
the long-dead distinguished citizen, but only just the one: he slaughtered calves and broke
into oratory while he was at it. Curious. They had only one fact, yet the distinguished citizen
had spent twenty-six years in that little town--just half his lifetime. However, rightly viewed,
it was the most important fact, indeed almost the only important fact, of Shakespeare's life
in Stratford. Rightly viewed. For experience is an author's most valuable asset; experience
is the thing that puts the muscle and the breath and the warm blood into the book he writes.
Rightly viewed, calf-butchering accounts for "Titus Andronicus," the only play--ain't it?--that
the Stratford Shakespeare ever wrote; and yet it is the only one everybody tried to chouse
him out of, the Baconians included.

The historians find themselves "justified in believing" that the young Shakespeare poached
upon Sir Thomas Lucy's deer preserves and got haled before that magistrate for it. But there
is no shred of respectworthy evidence that anything of the kind happened.

The historians, having argued the thing that MIGHT have happened into the thing that DID happen,
found no trouble in turning Sir Thomas Lucy into Mr. Justice Shallow. They have long ago convinced
the world--on surmise and without trustworthy evidence--that Shallow IS Sir Thomas.

The next addition to the young Shakespeare's Stratford history comes easy. The historian builds
it out of the surmised deer-steeling, and the surmised trial before the magistrate, and the
surmised vengeance-prompted satire upon the magistrate in the play: result, the young Shakespeare
was a wild, wild, wild, oh, SUCH a wild young scamp, and that gratuitous slander is established
for all time! It is the very way Professor Osborn and I built the colossal skeleton brontosaur
that stands fifty-seven feet long and sixteen feet high in the Natural History Museum, the
awe and admiration of all the world, the stateliest skeleton that exists on the planet. We
had nine bones, and we built the rest of him out of plaster of Paris. We ran short of plaster
of Paris, or we'd have built a brontosaur that could sit down beside the Stratford Shakespeare
and none but an expert could tell which was biggest or contained the most plaster.

Shakespeare pronounced "Venus and Adonis" "the first heir of his invention," apparently implying
that it was his first effort at literary composition. He should not have said it. It has been
an embarrassment to his historians these many, many years. They have to make him write that
graceful and polished and flawless and beautiful poem before he escaped from Stratford and
his family--1586 or '87--age, twenty-two, or along there; because within the next five years
he wrote five great plays, and could not have found time to write another line.

It is sorely embarrassing. If he began to slaughter calves, and poach deer, and rollick around,
and learn English, at the earliest likely moment--say at thirteen, when he was supposably wretched
from that school where he was supposably storing up Latin for future literary use--he had his
youthful hands full, and much more than full. He must have had to put aside his Warwickshire
dialect, which wouldn't be understood in London, and study English very hard. Very hard indeed;
incredibly hard, almost, if the result of that labor was to be the smooth and rounded and flexible
and letter-perfect English of the "Venus and Adonis" in the space of ten years; and at the
same time learn great and fine and unsurpassable literary FORM.

However, it is "conjectured" that he accomplished all this and more, much more: learned law
and its intricacies; and the complex procedure of the law-courts; and all about soldiering,
and sailoring, and the manners and customs and ways of royal courts and aristocratic society;
and likewise accumulated in his one head every kind of knowledge the learned then possessed,
and every kind of humble knowledge possessed by the lowly and the ignorant; and added thereto
a wider and more intimate knowledge of the world's great literatures, ancient and modern, than
was possessed by any other man of his time--for he was going to make brilliant and easy and
admiration-compelling use of these splendid treasures the moment he got to London. And according
to the surmisers, that is what he did. Yes, although there was no one in Stratford able to
teach him these things, and no library in the little village to dig them out of. His father
could not read, and even the surmisers surmise that he did not keep a library.

It is surmised by the biographers that the young Shakespeare got his vast knowledge of the
law and his familiar and accurate acquaintance with the manners and customs and shop-talk of
lawyers through being for a time the CLERK OF A STRATFORD COURT; just as a bright lad like
me, reared in a village on the banks of the Mississippi, might become perfect in knowledge
of the Bering Strait whale-fishery and the shop-talk of the veteran exercises of that adventure-bristling
trade through catching catfish with a "trot-line" Sundays. But the surmise is damaged by the
fact that there is no evidence--and not even tradition--that the young Shakespeare was ever
clerk of a law-court.

It is further surmised that the young Shakespeare accumulated his law-treasures in the first
years of his sojourn in London, through "amusing himself" by learning book-law in his garret
and by picking up lawyer-talk and the rest of it through loitering about the law-courts and
listening. But it is only surmise; there is no EVIDENCE that he ever did either of those things.
They are merely a couple of chunks of plaster of Paris.

There is a legend that he got his bread and butter by holding horses in front of the London
theaters, mornings and afternoons. Maybe he did. If he did, it seriously shortened his law-study
hours and his recreation-time in the courts. In those very days he was writing great plays,
and needed all the time he could get. The horse-holding legend ought to be strangled; it too
formidably increases the historian's difficulty in accounting for the young Shakespeare's erudition--an
erudition which he was acquiring, hunk by hunk and chunk by chunk, every day in those strenuous
times, and emptying each day's catch into next day's imperishable drama.

He had to acquire a knowledge of war at the same time; and a knowledge of soldier-people and
sailor-people and their ways and talk; also a knowledge of some foreign lands and their languages:
for he was daily emptying fluent streams of these various knowledges, too, into his dramas.
How did he acquire these rich assets?

In the usual way: by surmise. It is SURMISED that he traveled in Italy and Germany and around,
and qualified himself to put their scenic and social aspects upon paper; that he perfected
himself in French, Italian, and Spanish on the road; that he went in Leicester's expedition
to the Low Countries, as soldier or sutler or something, for several months or years--or whatever
length of time a surmiser needs in his business--and thus became familiar with soldiership
and soldier-ways and soldier-talk and generalship and general-ways and general-talk, and seamanship
and sailor-ways and sailor-talk.

Maybe he did all these things, but I would like to know who held the horses in the mean time;
and who studied the books in the garret; and who frolicked in the law-courts for recreation.
Also, who did the call-boying and the play-acting.

For he became a call-boy; and as early as '93 he became a "vagabond"--the law's ungentle term
for an unlisted actor; and in '94 a "regular" and properly and officially listed member of
that (in those days) lightly valued and not much respected profession.

Right soon thereafter he became a stockholder in two theaters, and manager of them. Thenceforward
he was a busy and flourishing business man, and was raking in money with both hands for twenty
years.

He was probably dead when he wrote it. Still, this is only conjecture. We have only circumstantial
evidence. Internal evidence.

Shall I set down the rest of the Conjectures which constitute the giant Biography of William
Shakespeare? It would strain the Unabridged Dictionary to hold them. He is a brontosaur: nine
bones and six hundred barrels of plaster of Paris.

V

"We May Assume"

In the Assuming trade three separate and independent cults are transacting business. Two of
these cults are known as the Shakespearites and the Baconians, and I am the other one--the
Brontosaurian.

The Shakespearite knows that Shakespeare wrote Shakespeare's Works; the Baconian knows that
Francis Bacon wrote them; the Brontosaurian doesn't really know which of them did it, but is
quite composedly and contentedly sure that Shakespeare DIDN'T, and strongly suspects that Bacon
DID. We all have to do a good deal of assuming, but I am fairly certain that in every case
I can call to mind the Baconian assumers have come out ahead of the Shakespearites. Both parties
handle the same materials, but the Baconians seem to me to get much more reasonable and rational
and persuasive results out of them than is the case with the Shakespearites. The Shakespearite
conducts his assuming upon a definite principle, an unchanging and immutable law: which is:
2 and 8 and 7 and 14, added together, make 165. I believe this to be an error. No matter, you
cannot get a habit-sodden Shakespearite to cipher-up his materials upon any other basis. With
the Baconian it is different. If you place before him the above figures and set him to adding
them up, he will never in any case get more than 45 out of them, and in nine cases out of ten
he will get just the proper 31.

Let me try to illustrate the two systems in a simple and homely way calculated to bring the
idea within the grasp of the ignorant and unintelligent. We will suppose a case: take a lap-bred,
house-fed, uneducated, inexperienced kitten; take a rugged old Tom that's scarred from stem
to rudder-post with the memorials of strenuous experience, and is so cultured, so educated,
so limitlessly erudite that one may say of him "all cat-knowledge is his province"; also, take
a mouse. Lock the three up in a holeless, crackless, exitless prison-cell. Wait half an hour,
then open the cell, introduce a Shakespearite and a Baconian, and let them cipher and assume.
The mouse is missing: the question to be decided is, where is it? You can guess both verdicts
beforehand. One verdict will say the kitten contains the mouse; the other will as certainly
say the mouse is in the tom-cat.

The Shakespearite will Reason like this--(that is not my word, it is his). He will say the
kitten MAY HAVE BEEN attending school when nobody was noticing; therefore WE ARE WARRANTED
IN ASSUMING that it did so; also, it COULD HAVE BEEN training in a court-clerk's office when
no one was noticing; since that could have happened, WE ARE JUSTIFIED IN ASSUMING that it did
happen; it COULD HAVE STUDIED CATOLOGY IN A GARRET when no one was noticing--therefore it DID;
it COULD HAVE attended cat-assizes on the shed-roof nights, for recreation, when no one was
noticing, and have harvested a knowledge of cat court-forms and cat lawyer-talk in that way:
it COULD have done it, therefore without a doubt it DID; it COULD HAVE gone soldiering with
a war-tribe when no one was noticing, and learned soldier-wiles and soldier-ways, and what
to do with a mouse when opportunity offers; the plain inference, therefore, is that that is
what it DID. Since all these manifold things COULD have occurred, we have EVERY RIGHT TO BELIEVE
they did occur. These patiently and painstakingly accumulated vast acquirements and competences
needed but one thing more--opportunity--to convert themselves into triumphal action. The opportunity
came, we have the result; BEYOND SHADOW OF QUESTION the mouse is in the kitten.

It is proper to remark that when we of the three cults plant a "WE THINK WE MAY ASSUME," we
expect it, under careful watering and fertilizing and tending, to grow up into a strong and
hardy and weather-defying "THERE ISN'T A SHADOW OF A DOUBT" at last--and it usually happens.

We know what the Baconian's verdict would be: "THERE IS NOT A RAG OF EVIDENCE THAT THE KITTEN
HAS HAD ANY TRAINING, ANY EDUCATION, ANY EXPERIENCE QUALIFYING IT FOR THE PRESENT OCCASION,
OR IS INDEED EQUIPPED FOR ANY ACHIEVEMENT ABOVE LIFTING SUCH UNCLAIMED MILK AS COMES ITS WAY;
BUT THERE IS ABUNDANT EVIDENCE--UNASSAILABLE PROOF, IN FACT--THAT THE OTHER ANIMAL IS EQUIPPED,
TO THE LAST DETAIL, WITH EVERY QUALIFICATION NECESSARY FOR THE EVENT. WITHOUT SHADOW OF DOUBT
THE TOM-CAT CONTAINS THE MOUSE."

VI

When Shakespeare died, in 1616, great literary productions attributed to him as author had
been before the London world and in high favor for twenty-four years. Yet his death was not
an event. It made no stir, it attracted no attention. Apparently his eminent literary contemporaries
did not realize that a celebrated poet had passed from their midst. Perhaps they knew a play-actor
of minor rank had disappeared, but did not regard him as the author of his Works. "We are justified
in assuming" this.

His death was not even an event in the little town of Stratford. Does this mean that in Stratford
he was not regarded as a celebrity of ANY kind?

"We are privileged to assume"--no, we are indeed OBLIGED to assume--that such was the case.
He had spent the first twenty-two or twenty-three years of his life there, and of course knew
everybody and was known by everybody of that day in the town, including the dogs and the cats
and the horses. He had spent the last five or six years of his life there, diligently trading
in every big and little thing that had money in it; so we are compelled to assume that many
of the folk there in those said latter days knew him personally, and the rest by sight and
hearsay. But not as a CELEBRITY? Apparently not. For everybody soon forgot to remember any
contact with him or any incident connected with him. The dozens of townspeople, still alive,
who had known of him or known about him in the first twenty-three years of his life were in
the same unremembering condition: if they knew of any incident connected with that period of
his life they didn't tell about it. Would the if they had been asked? It is most likely. Were
they asked? It is pretty apparent that they were not. Why weren't they? It is a very plausible
guess that nobody there or elsewhere was interested to know.

For seven years after Shakespeare's death nobody seems to have been interested in him. Then
the quarto was published, and Ben Jonson awoke out of his long indifference and sang a song
of praise and put it in the front of the book. Then silence fell AGAIN.

For sixty years. Then inquiries into Shakespeare's Stratford life began to be made, of Stratfordians.
Of Stratfordians who had known Shakespeare or had seen him? No. Then of Stratfordians who had
seen people who had known or seen people who had seen Shakespeare? No. Apparently the inquires
were only made of Stratfordians who were not Stratfordians of Shakespeare's day, but later
comers; and what they had learned had come to them from persons who had not seen Shakespeare;
and what they had learned was not claimed as FACT, but only as legend--dim and fading and indefinite
legend; legend of the calf-slaughtering rank, and not worth remembering either as history or
fiction.

Has it ever happened before--or since--that a celebrated person who had spent exactly half
of a fairly long life in the village where he was born and reared, was able to slip out of
this world and leave that village voiceless and gossipless behind him--utterly voiceless.,
utterly gossipless? And permanently so? I don't believe it has happened in any case except
Shakespeare's. And couldn't and wouldn't have happened in his case if he had been regarded
as a celebrity at the time of his death.

When I examine my own case--but let us do that, and see if it will not be recognizable as exhibiting
a condition of things quite likely to result, most likely to result, indeed substantially SURE
to result in the case of a celebrated person, a benefactor of the human race. Like me.

My parents brought me to the village of Hannibal, Missouri, on the banks of the Mississippi,
when I was two and a half years old. I entered school at five years of age, and drifted from
one school to another in the village during nine and a half years. Then my father died, leaving
his family in exceedingly straitened circumstances; wherefore my book-education came to a standstill
forever, and I became a printer's apprentice, on board and clothes, and when the clothes failed
I got a hymn-book in place of them. This for summer wear, probably. I lived in Hannibal fifteen
and a half years, altogether, then ran away, according to the custom of persons who are intending
to become celebrated. I never lived there afterward. Four years later I became a "cub" on a
Mississippi steamboat in the St. Louis and New Orleans trade, and after a year and a half of
hard study and hard work the U.S. inspectors rigorously examined me through a couple of long
sittings and decided that I knew every inch of the Mississippi--thirteen hundred miles--in
the dark and in the day--as well as a baby knows the way to its mother's paps day or night.
So they licensed me as a pilot--knighted me, so to speak--and I rose up clothed with authority,
a responsible servant of the United States Government.

Now then. Shakespeare died young--he was only fifty-two. He had lived in his native village
twenty-six years, or about that. He died celebrated (if you believe everything you read in
the books). Yet when he died nobody there or elsewhere took any notice of it; and for sixty
years afterward no townsman remembered to say anything about him or about his life in Stratford.
When the inquirer came at last he got but one fact--no, LEGEND--and got that one at second
hand, from a person who had only heard it as a rumor and didn't claim copyright in it as a
production of his own. He couldn't, very well, for its date antedated his own birth-date. But
necessarily a number of persons were still alive in Stratford who, in the days of their youth,
had seen Shakespeare nearly every day in the last five years of his life, and they would have
been able to tell that inquirer some first-hand things about him if he had in those last days
been a celebrity and therefore a person of interest to the villagers. Why did not the inquirer
hunt them up and interview them? Wasn't it worth while? Wasn't the matter of sufficient consequence?
Had the inquirer an engagement to see a dog-fight and couldn't spare the time?

It all seems to mean that he never had any literary celebrity, there or elsewhere, and no considerable
repute as actor and manager.

Now then, I am away along in life--my seventy-third year being already well behind me--yet
SIXTEEN of my Hannibal schoolmates are still alive today, and can tell--and do tell--inquirers
dozens and dozens of incidents of their young lives and mine together; things that happened
to us in the morning of life, in the blossom of our youth, in the good days, the dear days,
"the days when we went gipsying, a long time ago." Most of them creditable to me, too. One
child to whom I paid court when she was five years old and I eight still lives in Hannibal,
and she visited me last summer, traversing the necessary ten or twelve hundred miles of railroad
without damage to her patience or to her old-young vigor. Another little lassie to whom I paid
attention in Hannibal when she was nine years old and I the same, is still alive--in London--and
hale and hearty, just as I am. And on the few surviving steamboats--those lingering ghosts
and remembrancers of great fleets that plied the big river in the beginning of my water-career--which
is exactly as long ago as the whole invoice of the life-years of Shakespeare numbers--there
are still findable two or three river-pilots who saw me do creditable things in those ancient
days; and several white-headed engineers; and several roustabouts and mates; and several deck-hands
who used to heave the lead for me and send up on the still night the "Six--feet--SCANT!" that
made me shudder, and the "M-a-r-k--TWAIN!" that took the shudder away, and presently the darling
"By the d-e-e-p--FOUR!" that lifted me to heaven for joy. (1) They know about me, and can tell.
And so do printers, from St. Louis to New York; and so do newspaper reporters, from Nevada
to San Francisco. And so do the police. If Shakespeare had really been celebrated, like me,
Stratford could have told things about him; and if my experience goes for anything, they'd
have done it.

      1.  Four fathoms--twenty-four feet.

VII

If I had under my superintendence a controversy appointed to decide whether Shakespeare wrote
Shakespeare or not, I believe I would place before the debaters only the one question, WAS
SHAKESPEARE EVER A PRACTICING LAWYER? and leave everything else out.

It is maintained that the man who wrote the plays was not merely myriad-minded, but also myriad-accomplished:
that he not only knew some thousands of things about human life in all its shades and grades,
and about the hundred arts and trades and crafts and professions which men busy themselves
in, but that he could TALK about the men and their grades and trades accurately, making no
mistakes. Maybe it is so, but have the experts spoken, or is it only Tom, Dick, and Harry?
Does the exhibit stand upon wide, and loose, and eloquent generalizing--which is not evidence,
and not proof--or upon details, particulars, statistics, illustrations, demonstrations?

Experts of unchallengeable authority have testified definitely as to only one of Shakespeare's
multifarious craft-equipments, so far as my recollections of Shakespeare-Bacon talk abide with
me--his law-equipment. I do not remember that Wellington or Napoleon ever examined Shakespeare's
battles and sieges and strategies, and then decided and established for good and all that they
were militarily flawless; I do not remember that any Nelson, or Drake, or Cook ever examined
his seamanship and said it showed profound and accurate familiarity with that art; I don't
remember that any king or prince or duke has ever testified that Shakespeare was letter-perfect
in his handling of royal court-manners and the talk and manners of aristocracies; I don't remember
that any illustrious Latinist or Grecian or Frenchman or Spaniard or Italian has proclaimed
him a past-master in those languages; I don't remember--well, I don't remember that there is
TESTIMONY--great testimony--imposing testimony--unanswerable and unattackable testimony as
to any of Shakespeare's hundred specialties, except one--the law.

Other things change, with time, and the student cannot trace back with certainty the changes
that various trades and their processes and technicalities have undergone in the long stretch
of a century or two and find out what their processes and technicalities were in those early
days, but with the law it is different: it is mile-stoned and documented all the way back,
and the master of that wonderful trade, that complex and intricate trade, that awe-compelling
trade, has competent ways of knowing whether Shakespeare-law is good law or not; and whether
his law-court procedure is correct or not, and whether his legal shop-talk is the shop-talk
of a veteran practitioner or only a machine-made counterfeit of it gathered from books and
from occasional loiterings in Westminster.

Richard H. Dana served two years before the mast, and had every experience that falls to the
lot of the sailor before the mast of our day. His sailor-talk flows from his pen with the sure
touch and the ease and confidence of a person who has LIVED what he is talking about, not gathered
it from books and random listenings. Hear him:

Having hove short, cast off the gaskets, and made the bunt of each sail fast by the jigger,
with a man on each yard, at the word the whole canvas of the ship was loosed, and with the
greatest rapidity possible everything was sheeted home and hoisted up, the anchor tripped and
cat-headed, and the ship under headway.

Again:

The royal yards were all crossed at once, and royals and sky-sails set, and, as we had the
wind free, the booms were run out, and all were aloft, active as cats, laying out on the yards
and booms, reeving the studding-sail gear; and sail after sail the captain piled upon her,
until she was covered with canvas, her sails looking like a great white cloud resting upon
a black speck.

Once more. A race in the Pacific:

Our antagonist was in her best trim. Being clear of the point, the breeze became stiff, and
the royal-masts bent under our sails, but we would not take them in until we saw three boys
spring into the rigging of the CALIFORNIA; then they were all furled at once, but with orders
to our boys to stay aloft at the top-gallant mast-heads and loose them again at the word. It
was my duty to furl the fore-royal; and while standing by to loose it again, I had a fine view
of the scene. From where I stood, the two vessels seemed nothing but spars and sails, while
their narrow decks, far below, slanting over by the force of the wind aloft, appeared hardly
capable of supporting the great fabrics raised upon them. The CALIFORNIA was to windward of
us, and had every advantage; yet, while the breeze was stiff we held our own. As soon as it
began to slacken she ranged a little ahead, and the order was given to loose the royals. In
an instant the gaskets were off and the bunt dropped. "Sheet home the fore-royal!"--"Weather
sheet's home!"--"Lee sheet's home!"--"Hoist away, sir!" is bawled from aloft. "Overhaul your
clew-lines!" shouts the mate. "Aye-aye, sir, all clear!"--"Taut leech! belay! Well the lee
brace; haul taut to windward!" and the royals are set.

What would the captain of any sailing-vessel of our time say to that? He would say, "The man
that wrote that didn't learn his trade out of a book, he has BEEN there!" But would this same
captain be competent to sit in judgment upon Shakespeare's seamanship--considering the changes
in ships and ship-talk that have necessarily taken place, unrecorded, unremembered, and lost
to history in the last three hundred years? It is my conviction that Shakespeare's sailor-talk
would be Choctaw to him. For instance--from "The Tempest":

MASTER. Boatswain!

BOATSWAIN. Here, master; what cheer?

MASTER. Good, speak to the mariners: fall to 't, yarely, or we run ourselves to ground; bestir,
bestir! (ENTER MARINERS.)

BOATSWAIN. Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts! yare, yare! Take in the topsail.
Tend to the master's whistle.... Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bring her to try
wi' the main course.... Lay her a-hold, a-hold! Set her two courses. Off to sea again; lay her off.

That will do, for the present; let us yare a little, now, for a change.

If a man should write a book and in it make one of his characters say, "Here, devil, empty
the quoins into the standing galley and the imposing-stone into the hell-box; assemble the
comps around the frisket and let them jeff for takes and be quick about it," I should recognize
a mistake or two in the phrasing, and would know that the writer was only a printer theoretically,
not practically.

I have been a quartz miner in the silver regions--a pretty hard life; I know all the palaver
of that business: I know all about discovery claims and the subordinate claims; I know all
about lodes, ledges, outcroppings, dips, spurs, angles, shafts, drifts, inclines, levels, tunnels,
air-shafts, "horses," clay casings, granite casings; quartz mills and their batteries; arastras,
and how to charge them with quicksilver and sulphate of copper; and how to clean them up, and
how to reduce the resulting amalgam in the retorts, and how to cast the bullion into pigs;
and finally I know how to screen tailings, and also how to hunt for something less robust to
do, and find it. I know the argot and the quartz-mining and milling industry familiarly; and
so whenever Bret Harte introduces that industry into a story, the first time one of his miners
opens his mouth I recognize from his phrasing that Harte got the phrasing by listening--like
Shakespeare--I mean the Stratford one--not by experience.

I have been a surface miner--gold--and I know all its mysteries, and the dialects that belongs
with them; and whenever Harte introduces that industry into a story I know by the phrasing
of his characters that neither he nor they have ever served that trade.

I have been a "pocket" miner--a sort of gold mining not findable in any but one little spot
in the world, so far as I know. I know how, with horn and water, to find the trail of a pocket
and trace it step by step and stage by stage up the mountain to its source, and find the compact
little nest of yellow metal reposing in its secret home under the ground. I know the language
of that trade, that capricious trade, that fascinating buried-treasure trade, and can catch
any writer who tries to use it without having learned it by the sweat of his brow and the labor
of his hands.

I know several other trades and the argot that goes with them; and whenever a person tries
to talk the talk peculiar to any of them without having learned it at its source I can trap
him always before he gets far on his road.

And so, as I have already remarked, if I were required to superintend a Bacon-Shakespeare controversy,
I would narrow the matter down to a single question--the only one, so far as the previous controversies
have informed me, concerning which illustrious experts of unimpeachable competency have testified:
WAS THE AUTHOR OF SHAKESPEARE'S WORKS A LAWYER?--a lawyer deeply read and of limitless experience?
I would put aside the guesses and surmises, and perhapses, and might-have-beens, and could-have-beens,
and must-have-beens, and,

we-are-justified-in-presumings,and the rest of those vague specters and shadows and indefintenesses,
and stand or fall, win or lose, by the verdict rendered by the jury upon that single question.
If the verdict was Yes, I should feel quite convinced that the Stratford Shakespeare, the actor,
manager, and trader who died so obscure, so forgotten, so destitute of even village consequence,
that sixty years afterward no fellow-citizen and friend of his later days remembered to tell
anything about him, did not write the Works.

Chapter XIII of THE SHAKESPEARE PROBLEM RESTATED bears the heading "Shakespeare as a Lawyer,"
and comprises some fifty pages of expert testimony, with comments thereon, and I will copy
the first nine, as being sufficient all by themselves, as it seems to me, to settle the question
which I have conceived to be the master-key to the Shakespeare-Bacon puzzle.

VIII

Shakespeare as a Lawyer (1)

The Plays and Poems of Shakespeare supply ample evidence that their author not only had a very
extensive and accurate knowledge of law, but that he was well acquainted with the manners and
customs of members of the Inns of Court and with legal life generally.

"While novelists and dramatists are constantly making mistakes as to the laws of marriage,
of wills, of inheritance, to Shakespeare's law, lavishly as he expounds it, there can neither
be demurrer, nor bill of exceptions, nor writ of error." Such was the testimony borne by one
of the most distinguished lawyers of the nineteenth century who was raised to the high office
of Lord Chief Justice in 1850, and subsequently became Lord Chancellor. Its weight will, doubtless,
be more appreciated by lawyers than by laymen, for only lawyers know how impossible it is for
those who have not served an apprenticeship to the law to avoid displaying their ignorance
if they venture to employ legal terms and to discuss legal doctrines. "There is nothing so
dangerous," wrote Lord Campbell, "as for one not of the craft to tamper with our freemasonry."
A layman is certain to betray himself by using some expression which a lawyer would never employ.
Mr. Sidney Lee himself supplies us with an example of this. He writes (p. 164): "On February
15, 1609, Shakespeare ... obtained judgment from a jury against Addenbroke for the payment
of No. 6, and No. 1, 5s. 0d. costs." Now a lawyer would never have spoken of obtaining "judgment
from a jury," for it is the function of a jury not to deliver judgment (which is the prerogative
of the court), but to find a verdict on the facts. The error is, indeed, a venial one, but
it is just one of those little things which at once enable a lawyer to know if the writer is
a layman or "one of the craft.