There is, moreover, nothing silly or sentimental, though of course there is something that
may be controverted, in saying that except for purely "business" purposes (which are as such
alien from Art and have nothing to do with any but a part, and a rather sophisticated part,
of Nature) the less the letter-writer forgets that he is merely substituting pen for tongue
the better. Of course, the instruments and the circumstances being different, the methods and
canons of the proceedings will be different too. In the letter there is no interlocutor; and
there is no possibility of what we may call accompanying it with personal illustrations[1]
and demonstrations, if necessary or agreeable. But still it may be laid down, with some confidence,
that the more the spoken word is heard in a letter the better, and the less that word is heard--the
more it gives way to "book"-talk--the worse. Indeed this is not likely to be denied, though
there remain as usual almost infinite possibilities of differences in personal opinion as to
what constitutes the desirable mixture of variation and similarity between a conversation and
a letter. Let us, before discussing this or saying anything more about the principles, say
something about the history of this, at best so delightful, at worst so undelightful art. For
if History, in the transferred sense of particular books called "histories," is rather apt
to be false: nothing but History in the wider and higher sense will ever lead us to truth.
The Future is unknown and unknowable. The Present is turning to Past even as we are trying
to know it. Only the Past itself abides our knowledge.

[Sidenote: BIBLICAL EXAMPLES]

Of the oldest existing examples of epistolary correspondence, except those contained in the
Bible, the present writer knows little or nothing. For, except a vanished smattering of Hebrew,
he "has" no Oriental tongue; he has never been much addicted to reading translations, and even
if he had been so has had little occasion to draw him to such studies, and much to draw him
away from them. There certainly appear to be some beautiful specimens of the more passionate
letter writing in ancient if not exactly pre-Christian Chinese, and probably in other tongues--but
it is ill talking of what one does not know. In the Scriptures themselves letters do not come
early, and the "token" period probably lasted long. Isaac does not even send a token with Jacob
to validate his suit for a daughter of Laban. But one would have enjoyed a letter from Ishmael
to his half-brother, when his daughter was married to Esau, who was so much more like a son
of Ishmael himself than of the amiable husband of Rebekah. She, by the way, had herself been
fetched in an equally unlettered transaction. It would of course be impossible, and might be
regarded as improper, to devote much space here to the sacred epistolographers. But one may
wonder whether many people have appreciated the humour of the two epistles of the great King
Ahasuerus-Artaxerxes, the first commanding and the second countermanding the massacre of the
Jews--epistles contained in the Septuagint "Rest of the Book of Esther" (see our Apocrypha),
instead of the mere dry summaries which had sufficed for "the Hebrew and the Chaldee." The
exact authenticity of these fuller texts is a matter of no importance, but their substance,
whether it was the work of a Persian civil servant or of a Greek-Jew rhetorician, is most curious.
Whosoever it was, he knew King's Speeches and communications from "My lords" and such like
things, very well indeed; and the contrast of the mention in the first letter of "Aman who
excelled in wisdom among us and was approved for his constant good will and steadfast fidelity"
with "the wicked wretch Aman--a stranger received of us ... his falsehood and cunning"--the
whole of both letters being carefully attuned to the respective key-notes--is worthy of any
one of the best ironists from Aristophanes to the late Mr. Traill.

Between these two extremes of the Pentateuch and the Apocrypha there is, as has been remarked
by divers commentators, not much about letters in the Bible. It is not auspicious that among
the exceptions come David's letter commanding the betrayal of Uriah, and a little later Jezebel's
similar prescription for the judicial murder of Naboth. There is, however, some hint of that
curious attractiveness which some have seen in "the King's daughter all glorious within--"
and without (as the Higher Criticism interprets the Forty-Fifth Psalm) in the bland way with
which she herself stipulates that the false witnesses shall be "sons of Belial."

There is a book (once much utilised as a school prize) entitled The History of Inventions.
I do not know whether there is a "Dictionary of Attributed Inventors." If there were it would
contain some queer examples. One of the queerest is fathered (for we only have it at second
hand) on Hellanicus, a Greek writer of respectable antiquity--the Peloponnesian war-time--and
respectable repute for book-making in history, chronology, etc. It attributes the invention
of letters--i.e. "epistolary correspondence"--to Atossa--not Mr. Matthew Arnold's Persian cat
but--the Persian Queen, daughter of Cyrus, wife of Cambyses and Darius, mother of Xerxes, and
in more than her queenly status a sister to Jezebel. Atossa had not a wholly amiable reputation,
but she was assuredly no fool: and if, to borrow a famous phrase, it had been necessary to
invent letters, there is no known reason why she might not have done it. But it is perfectly
certain that she did not, and no one who combines, as all true scholars should endeavour to
combine, an unquenchable curiosity to know what can be known and is worth knowing with a placid
resignation to ignorance of what cannot be known and would not be worth knowing--need in the
least regret the fact that we do not know who did.

There are said to be Egyptian letters of immense antiquity and high development; but once more,
I do not profess direct knowledge of them, and once more I hold that of what a man does not
possess direct knowledge, of that he should not write. Besides, for practical purposes, all
our literature begins with Greek: so to Greek let us turn. We have a fair bulk of letters in
that language. Hercher's Epistolographi Graeci is a big volume, and would not be a small one,
if you cut out the Latin translations. But it is unfortunate that nearly the whole, like the
majority of later Greek literature, is the work of that special class called rhetoricians--a
class for which, though our term "book-makers" may be a little too derogatory, "men of letters"
is rarely (it is sometimes) applicable, as we use it when we mean to be complimentary. These
letters are still close to "speech," thus meeting in a fashion our initial requirement, but
they are close to the speech of the "orator"--of the sophisticated speaker to the public--not
to that of genuine conversation. In fact in some cases it would require only the very slightest
change to make those exercitations of the rhetors which are not called "epistles" definite
letters in form, while some of the best known and characteristic of their works are so entitled.

[Sidenote: THE RHETORICIANS]

It was unfortunate for the Greeks, as it would seem, and for us more certainly, that letter-writing
was so much affected by these "rhetoricians." This curious class of persons has perhaps been
too much abused: and there is no doubt that very great writers came out of them--to mention
one only in each division--Lucian among the extremely profane, and St. Augustine among the
greatest and most intellectual of divines. But though their habitual defects are to be found
abundantly enough in modern society, these defects are, with us, as a rule distributed among
different classes; while anciently they were united in this one. We have our journalists, our
book-makers (literary, not sporting), our platform and parliamentary palaverers, our popular
entertainers; and we also have our pedagogues, scholastic and collegiate, our scientific and
other lecturers, etc. But the Rhetorician of old was a Jack of all these trades; and he too
frequently combined the triviality, unreality, sophistry and catch-pennyism of the one division
with the priggishness, the lack of tact and humour, and above all the pseudo-scientific tendency
to generalisation, classification and, to use a familiar word, "pottering" of the other. In
particular he had a mania in his more serious moods for defining and sub-defining things and
putting them into pigeon-holes under the sub-definitions. Thus the so-called Demetrius Phalereus,
who (or a false namesake of his) has left us a capital general remark (to be given presently)
on letter-writing, elaborately divides its kinds, with prescriptions for writing each, into
"friendly," "commendatory," "reproving," "objurgatory," "consolatory," "castigatory," "admonishing,"
"threatening," "vituperatory," "laudatory," "persuasive," "begging," "questioning," "answering,"
"allegorical," "explanatory," "accusing," "defending," "congratulatory," "ironic" and "thankful,"
while the neo-Platonist, Proclus, is responsible for, or at least has attributed to him, a
list of nearly double the length, including most of those given above and adding many. Of these
last, "love-letters" is the most important, and "mixed" the canniest, for it practically lets
in everything.

This way, of course, except for purely business purposes--where established forms save time,
trouble and possible litigation--no possible good lies; and indeed the impossibility thereof
is clearly enough indicated in the above-glanced-at general remark of Demetrius (or whoever
it was) himself. In fact the principle of this remark and its context in the work called "Of
Interpretation," which it is more usual now to call, perhaps a little rashly, "Of Style," is
so different from the catalogue of types that they can hardly come from the same author. "You
can from this, as well as from all other kinds of writing, discern the character of the writer;
indeed from none other can you discern it so well." Those who know a little of the history
of Criticism will see how this anticipates the most famous and best definitions of Style itself,
as being "the very man," and they may perhaps also think worthy of notice another passage in
the same context where the author finds fault with a rather "fine" piece of an epistle as "not
the way a man would talk to his friend," and even goes on to use the most familiar Greek word
for talking--[Greek: lalein]--in the same connection.

[Sidenote: ALCIPHRON. JULIAN]

Of such "talking with a friend" we have unfortunately very few examples--hardly any at all--from
older Greek. The greater collections--not much used in schools or colleges now but well enough
known to those who really know Greek Literature--of Alciphron, Aristaenetus, Philostratus and
(once most famous of all) Phalaris are--one must not perhaps say obvious, since men of no little
worth were once taken in by them but--pretty easily discoverable counterfeits. They are sometimes,
more particularly those of Philostratus, interesting and even beautiful;[2] they have been
again sometimes at least supposed, particularly those of Alciphron, to give us, from the fact
that they were largely based upon lost comedies, etc., information which we should otherwise
lack; and in many instances (Aristaenetus is perhaps here the chief) they must have helped
towards that late Greek creation of the Romance to which we owe so much. Nor have we here much
if anything to do with such questions as the morality of personating dead authors, or that
of laying traps for historians. It is enough that they do not give us, except very rarely,
good letters: and that even these exceptions are not in any probability real letters, real
written "confabulations of friends" at all. Almost the first we have deserving such a description
are those of the Emperor Julian in the fourth century of that Christ for whom he had such an
unfortunate hatred; the most copious and thoroughly genuine perhaps those of Bishop Synesius
a little later. Of these Julian's are a good deal affected by the influence of Rhetoric, of
which he was a great cultivator: and the peculiar later Platonism of Synesius fills a larger
proportion of his than some frivolous persons might wish. Julian is even thought to have "written
for publication," as Latin epistolers of distinction had undoubtedly done before him. Nevertheless
it is pleasant to read the Apostate when he is not talking Imperial or anti-Christian "shop,"
but writing to his tutor, the famous sophist and rhetorician Libanius, about his travels and
his books and what not, in a fashion by no means very unlike that in which a young Oxford graduate
might write to an undonnish don. It is still pleasanter to find Synesius telling his friends
about the very thin wine and very thick honey of Cyrenaica; making love ("camouflaged," as
they say to-day, under philosophy) to Hypatia, and condescending to mention dogs, horses and
hunting now and then. But it is unfortunately undeniable that the bulk of this department of
Greek literature is spurious to begin with, and uninteresting, even if spuriousness be permitted
to pass. The Letters of Phalaris--once famous in themselves, again so as furnishing one of
the chief battle-grounds in the "Ancient and Modern" quarrel, and never to be forgotten because
of their connection with Swift's Battle of the Books--are as dull as ditchwater in matter,
and utterly destitute of literary distinction in style.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: ROMAN LETTER-WRITING]

It is a rule, general and almost universal, that every branch of Latin literature is founded
on, and more or less directly imitative of Greek. Even the Satire, which the Romans relied
upon to prove that they could originate, is more apparently than really an invention. Also,
though this may be more disputable, because much more a matter of personal taste, there were
very few such branches in which the pupils equalled, much fewer in which they surpassed, their
masters. But in both respects letter-writing may be said to be an exception. Unless we have
been singularly unlucky in losing better Greek letters than we have, and extraordinarily fortunate
in Fate's selection of the Latin letters that have come down to us, the Romans, though they
were eager students of Rhetoric, and almost outwent their teachers in composing the empty things
called Declamations, seem to have allowed this very practice to drain off mere verbosity, and
to have written letters about matters which were worth pen, ink, paper and (as we should say)
postage. We have in Greek absolutely no such letters from the flourishing time of the literature
as those of Cicero, of Pliny[3] and even of Seneca--while as we approach the "Dark" Ages Julian
and Synesius in the older language cannot touch Sidonius Apollinaris or perhaps Cassiodorus[4]
in the younger. Of course all these are beyond reasonable doubt genuine, while the Greek letters
attributed to Plato, Socrates and other great men are almost without doubt and without exception
spurious. But there is very little likelihood that the Greeks of the great times wrote many
"matter-ful" letters at all. They lived in small communities, where they saw each other daily
and almost hourly; they took little interest in the affairs of other communities unless they
were at war with them, and when they did travel there were very few means of international
communication.

Women write the best letters, and get the best letters written to them: but it is doubtful
whether Greek women, save persons of a certain class and other exceptions in different ways
like Sappho and Diotima,[5] ever wrote at all. The Romans, after their early period, were not
merely a larger and ever larger community full of the most various business, and constantly
extending their presence and their sway; but, by their unique faculty of organisation, they
put every part of their huge world in communication with every other part. Here also we lack
women's letters; but we are, as above remarked, by no means badly off for those of men. There
have even been some audacious heretics who have preferred Cicero's letters to his speeches
and treatises; Seneca, the least attractive of those before mentioned, put well what the poet
Wordsworth called in his own poems "extremely valooable thoughts"; one of the keenest of mathematicians
and best of academic and general business men known to the present writer, the late Professor
Chrystal of Edinburgh, made a special favourite of Pliny; and if people can find nothing worse
to say against Sidonius than that he wrote in contemporary, and not in what was for his time
archaic, Latin, his case will not look bad in the eyes of sensible men.

[Sidenote: SIDONIUS]

Sidonius, like Synesius, was a Christian, and, though the observation may seem no more logical
than Fluellen's about Macedon and Monmouth, besides being in more doubtful taste, there would
seem to be some connection between the spread of Christianity and that of letter-writing. At
any rate they synchronise, despite or perhaps because of the deficiency of formal literature
during the "Dark" Ages. It is not really futile to point out that a very large part of the
New Testament consists of "Epistles," and that by no means the whole of these epistles is occupied
by doctrinal or hortatory matter. Even that which is so, often if not always, partakes of the
character of a "live" letter to an extent which makes the so-called letters of the Greek Rhetoricians
mere school exercises. And St. Paul's allusions to his journeys, his salutations, his acknowledgment
of presents, his reference to the cloak and the books with its anxious "but especially the
parchments," and his excellent advice to Timothy about beverages, are all the purest and most
genuine matter for mail-bags. So is St. Peter's very gentleman-like (as it has been termed)
retort to his brother Apostle; and so are both the Second and the Third of St. John. Indeed
it is not fanciful to suggest that the account of the voyage which finishes the "Acts," and
other parts of that very delightful book, are narratives much more of the kind one finds in
letters than of the formally historical sort.

However this may be, it is worth pointing out that the distrust of other pagan kinds of literature
which the Fathers manifested so strongly, and which was inherited from them by the clergy of
the "Dark," and to some extent the Middle Ages, clearly could not extend to the practice of
the Apostles. If from the Dark Ages themselves we have not very many, it must be remembered
that from them we have little literature at all: while from the close of that period and the
beginning of the next we have one of the most famous of all correspondences, the Letters of
Abelard and Heloise. Of the intrinsic merit of these long-and far-famed compositions, as displaying
character, there have been different opinions--one of the most damaging attacks on them may
be found in Barbey d'Aurevilly's already mentioned book. But their influence has been lasting
and enormous: and even if it were to turn out that they are forgeries, they are certainly early
forgeries, and the person who forged them knew extremely well what he was about. There is no
room here to survey, even in selection, the letter-crop of the Middle Ages; and from henceforward
we must speak mainly, if not wholly (for some glances abroad may be permitted), of English
letters.[6] But the ever-increasing bonds of union--even of such union in disunion as war--between
different European nations, and the developments of more complex civilisation, of more general
education and the like--all tended and wrought in the same direction.

II

LETTERS IN ENGLISH--BEFORE 1700

Exceptions have sometimes been taken to the earliest collection of genuine private letters,
not official communications written in or inspired by Latin--which we possess in English. "The
Paston Letters" have been, from opposite sides, accused of want of literary form and of not
giving us interesting enough details in substance. The objections in either case[7] are untenable,
and in both rather silly. In the first place "literary form" in the fifteenth century was exceedingly
likely to be bad literary form, and we are much better off without it. Unless Sir Thomas Malory
had happened to be chaplain at Oxnead, or Sir John Fortescue had occupied there something like
the position of Mr. Tulkinghorn in Bleak House, we should not have got much "literature" from
any known prose-writer of the period. Nor was it wanted. As for interestingness of matter,
the people who expect newspaper-correspondent fine writing about the Wars of the Roses may
be disappointed; but some of us who have had experience of that dialect from the Russells of
the Crimea through the Forbeses of 1870 to the chroniclers of Armageddon the other day will
probably not be very unhappy. The Paston Letters are simply genuine family correspondence--of
a genuineness all the more certain because of their commonplaceness. It is impossible to conceive
anything further from the initial type of the Greek rhetorical "letter" of which we have just
been saying something. They are not, to any but an excessively "high-browed" and high-flying
person, uninteresting: but the chief point about them is their solidity and their satisfaction,
in their own straightforward unvarnished way, of the test we started with. When Margaret Paston
and the rest write, it is because they have something to say to somebody who cannot be actually
spoken to. And that something is said.

[Sidenote: ASCHAM]

The next body of letters--Ascham's--which seems to call for notice here is of the next century.
It has not a few points of appeal, more than one of which concern us very nearly. Most of the
writers of the Paston Letters were, though in some cases of good rank and fairly educated,
persons entirely unacademic in character, and their society was that of the last trouble and
convulsion through which the Early Middle Ages struggled into the Renaissance, so long delayed
with us. Ascham was one of our chief representatives of the Renaissance itself--that is to
say, of a type at once scholarly and man-of-the-worldly, a courtier and a diplomatist as well
as a "don" and a man of letters; a sportsman as well as a schoolmaster. And while from all
these points of view his letters have interest, there is one thing about them which is perhaps
more interesting to us than any other: and that is the fact that while he begins to write in
Latin--the all but mother-tongue of all scholars of the time, and the universal language of
the educated, even when not definitely scholarly, throughout Europe--he exchanges this for
English latterly, in the same spirit which prompted his famous expression of reasons for writing
the Toxophilus in our own and his own tongue. There is indeed a double attraction, which has
not been always or often noticed, in this change of practice. Everybody has seen how important
it is, not merely as resisting the general delusion of contemporary scholars that the vernaculars
were things unsafe, "like to play the bankrupt with books," but as protesting by anticipation
against the continuance of this error which affected Bacon and Hobbes, and was not entirely
without hold even on such a magician in English as Browne. But perhaps everybody has not seen
how by implication it acknowledges the peculiar character of the genuine letter--that, though
it may be a work of art, it should not be one of artifice--that it is a matter of "business
or bosoms," not of study or display.

Contemporary with these letters of Ascham, and going on to the end of the century and the closely
coincident end of the reign of Elizabeth, we have a considerable bulk of letter-writing of
more or less varied kinds. The greatest men of letters of the time--to the disgust of one,
but not wholly so to that of another, class of "scholar"--give us little. Spenser is the most
considerable exception: and his correspondence with Gabriel Harvey, though it is personal to
a certain extent and on Gabriel's side sufficiently character-revealing, is really of the hybrid
kind, partaking rather more of pamphlet or essay than of letter proper. Indeed a good part
of that very remarkable pamphlet-literature of this time, which has perhaps scarcely yet received
its due share of attention, takes the letter-form: but is mostly even farther from genuine
letter-writing than the correspondence of "Immerito" and "Master G. H." We have of course more
of Harvey's; we have laments from others, such as Lyly and Googe, about their disappointments
as courtiers; we have a good deal of State correspondence. There are some, not very many, agreeable
letters of strictly private character in whole or part, the pleasantest of all perhaps being
some of Sir Philip Sydney's mother, Lady Mary Dudley. Others are from time to time being made
public, such as those in Dr. Williamson's recent book on the Admiral-Earl of Cumberland. As
far as mere bulk goes, Elizabethan epistolography would take no small place, just as it would
claim no mean one in point of interest. But in an even greater degree than its successor (v.
inf.) this corpus would expose itself to the criticism that the time for perfect letter-writing
was not quite yet, in this day of so much that was perfect, that the style was not quite the
right style, the knack not yet quite achieved. And if the present writer--who swore fealty
to Elizabethan literature a full third of a century ago after informal allegiance for nearly
as long a time earlier--admits some truth in this, there probably is some. The letters included
in it attract us more for the matter they contain than for the manner in which they contain
it: and when this is the case no branch of literature has perfected itself in art.

[Sidenote: THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY]

