When the evidence had been received, and the witnesses retired, the candles were again lighted.
Then speeches were made by most of the men present, and every one but two spoke in favor of
my conviction. Without taking a vote, the meeting adjourned, or rather left that place and
went somewhere else to consult. I was left in the dark, the house locked and guards placed
around the building. I was told that my fate would soon be decided, and I would then be informed.
I knew so well the manner of dealing in such cases that I expected to be killed in the dark,
but for some reason it was not done.

Next morning some food was brought to me, but I was still kept a prisoner and refused the liberty
of consulting with friends or any of my family. Late that day I looked out of the window of
the chamber where I was confined, and saw a man by the name of John Steel. He was first Counselor
to the President of that Stake of Zion. I called to him and asked him to secure my freedom.
After stating the case to him, he promised to see what could be done for me, and went away.

Through his exertions I was released. I was told to go home and hold myself subject to orders
- that my case was not yet decided. I went home, but for months I expected death every day;
for it is the usual course of the authorities to send an Angel after men who are charged with
or suspected of having violated their covenants.

Nothing further was done about the case, but it was held over me as a means of forcing me to
live in accordance with the wishes of the Priesthood and to prevent me from again interfering
with the Church authorities when they saw fit to destroy a man, as they destroyed old man Braffett;
and it did have the effect of making me more careful.

In 1854 (I think that was the year) there was a young man, a Gentile, working in Parowan. He
was quiet and orderly, but was courting some of the girls. He was notified to quit, and let
the girls alone, but he still kept going to see them. This was contrary to orders. No Gentile
is allowed to keep company with or visit any Mormon girl or woman.

The authorities decided to have the young man killed, so they called two of Bishop Dames' Destroying
Angels, Barney Carter and old man Gould, and told them to take that young Gentile "over the
rim of the basin." That was a term used by the Danites when they killed a person. The Destroying
Angels made some excuse to induce the young man to go with them on an excursion, and when they
got close to Shirts' mill, near Harmony, they killed him and left his body in the brush.

The Indians found the body, and reported the facts to me soon afterwards. I was not at home
that night, but Carter and Gould went to my house and stayed there all night. Rachel asked
them where they had been. They told her they had been on a mission to take a young man, a Gentile,
over the rim of the basin, and Carter showed her his sword, which was bloody, and said he used
it to help the Gentile over the edge. Rachel knew what they meant when they spoke of sending
him "over the rim of the basin." It was at that time a common thing to see Danites going out
of Cedar City and Harmony, with suspected Gentiles, to send them "over the rim of the basin,"
and the Gentiles were always sent.

This practice was supported by the people, and everything of that kind was done by orders from
the Council, or by orders from some of the Priesthood. When a Danite or a Destroying Angel
was placed on a man's track, that man died, certain, unless some providential act saved him,
as in Tobin's case.

The Mormons believe in blood atonement. It is taught by the leaders, and believed by the people,
that the Priesthood are inspired and cannot give a wrong order. It is the belief of all that
I ever heard talk of these things - and I have been with the Church since the dark days in
Jackson County - that the authority that orders is the only responsible party and the Danite
who does the killing only an instrument, and commits no wrong. In other words, if Brigham or
any of his apostles, or any of the Priesthood, gives an order to a Danite, the act is the act
of the one giving the order, and the Danite doing the act only an instrument of the person
commanding - just as much an instrument as the knife used to cut the throat of the victim.
This being the belief of all good Mormons, it is easily understood why the orders of the Priesthood
are so blindly obeyed by the people.

In 1857 there was an emigrant, a Gentile, who worked a number of months for Captain Jacob Huffine,
at Parowan. This man wanted his pay; it was not convenient to pay him; he insisted on being
paid, but not getting his wages, determined to leave. He started for the settlement at Summit,
about seven miles from Parowan. The Indians were sent for and ordered to overtake and kill
the man. They did so, and shot him full of arrows. The man called to the Indians and told them
he was a Mormon and that they must not kill him. The Indians replied by saying:

"We know you; you are no Mormon, you are a Mericat."

They beat his head with rocks, and cut his throat, and then went back to Parowan and reported
what they had done.

Brother Lancy had formed the acquaintance of the family of Aden while on a mission to Tennessee,
and was saved by Mr. Aden from a mob that threatened his death because he was a Mormon preacher.
When Fancher's train reached Parowan, Brother Laney met young Aden and recognized him as the
son of the man who had saved his life. Aden told him he was hungry, and that he and his comrades
had been unable to purchase supplies from the Mormons ever since they left Salt Lake City.

Brother Laney took young Aden to his house, gave him his supper, and let him sleep there that
night. The next day Laney was accused by leading men of being unfaithful to his obligations.
They said he had supported the enemies of the Church and given aid and comfort to one whose
hands were still red with the blood of the Prophet. A few nights after that the Destroying
Angels, doing the bidding of Bishop Dame, were ordered to kill Brother Laney to save him from
his sins, he having violated his endowment oath and furnished food to a man who had been declared
an outlaw by the Mormon Church.

The Angels were commanded by Barney Carter, a son-in-law of Bishop Dame. The Angels called
Laney out of the house, saying that Bishop Dame wished to see him. As Laney passed through
the gate into the street he was struck across the back of the head with a club by Barney Carter.
His skull was fractured and for many months Laney lay at the point of death, and his mind still
shows the effect of the injury he then received, for his brain has never quite settled since.
I have frequently talked with Laney. He is still strong in the Mormon faith, and believes that
Dame had the right to have him killed. Punishment by death is the penalty for refusing to obey
the orders of the Priesthood. About this time the Church was in the throes of a "reformation."

One of the objects of the reformation was to place the Priesthood in possession of every secret
act and crime that had been committed by a member of the Church. These secrets were obtained
in this way: a meeting would be called; some Church leader would make a speech, defining the
duties that the people owed the Priesthood, and instructing the people why it was necessary
that the Priesthood should control the acts of the people; it was preached that to keep back
any fact from the knowledge of the Priesthood was an unpardonable sin.

