"I 'members my mammy's father, Jack, but don't know where he come from. I heared him tell of
fightin' the Indians on the frontier, and one mammy's brothers was shot with a Indian arrow.

"The plantation jined the Sabine river and old man Watt owned many a slave. The old home is
still standin' cross the road from Rosborough Springs, nine miles south of Marshall.

"They was a white overseer on the place and mammy's stepdaddy, Kit, was niggerdriver and done
all the whippin', 'cept of mammy. She was bad 'bout fightin' and the overseer allus tended
to her. One day he come to the quarters to whip her and she up and throwed a shovel full of
live coals from the fireplace in his bosom and run out the door. He run her all over the place
'fore he cotched her. I seed the overseer tie her down and whip her. The niggers wasn't whipped
much 'cept for fightin' 'mongst themselves.

"I 'members mammy allus sayin' the darkies had to pray out in the woods, 'cause they ain't
'lowed to make no fuss round the house. She say they was fed and clothed well 'nough, but the
overseer worked the lights out of the darkies. I wasn't big 'nough to do field work, but 'member
goin' to the field to take mammy's pipe to her. They wasn't no matches in them days, and I
allus took fire from the house and sot a stump afire in the field, so mammy could light her pipe.

"None of our folks larnt to read and write till after slavery. My oldes' brother was larnin'
to read on the sly, but the overseer found out 'bout it and stopped him. He found some letters
writ on the wall of the quarter with charcoal and made the darkies tell him who writ it. My
brother Jack done it. The overseer didn't whip him, but told him he darns't do it 'gain.

"After surrender my folks left the Rosboroughs right straight and moved clost to Woodlawn.
My oldes' hired out in Shreveport. When they asks him what he's worth, he told them he didn't
know, but he was allus worth a heap of money when anyone wanted to buy him from the Rosboroughs.

"The Ku Kluxers come to our house in Woodlawn, and I got scart and crawled under the bed. They
told mammy they wasn't gwine hurt her, but jus' wanted water to drink. They didn't call each
other by names. When the head man spoke to any of them he'd say, Number 1, or Number 2, and
like that.

"I thunk I heared ghosts on the Driscoll place once, up in the loft of the house. I heared
them plain as day. My step-pa done die there and might of been his ghost. We moved away right
straight, and old man Driscoll had to burn that house down after that, 'cause wouldn't none
the darkies live in it.

"The only time I voted was when they put whiskey out. I heared a white man one time in Marshall,
makin' a speech on the square. He said he was gwine tell us darkies why they didn't low us
to vote. He didn't tell us, 'cause the law come out and made him git out the wagon and leave.

"This young race is sho' livin' fast, but I guess they's all right. Things is jes' different
now to when I was a boy. When I was a boy, folks didn't mind helpin' one 'nother, but now they
is in too big a hurry to pay you any mind.

420016

     JOHN JAMES, 78, was born a slave to John Chapman, on a large
     plantation in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana. John took the
     name of his father, who was owned by John James. John and his
     mother stayed with Mr. Chapman for six years after they were freed,
     then John went to Missouri, where he worked for the M. K. & T.
     Railroad for twenty years. He then came to Texas, and now lives at
     315 S. Jennings Ave., in Fort Worth.

"I doesn't have so much mind for slavery days, 'cause I's too young then, but I 'members when
surrender come and some befo' dat. I 'members my mammy lef' me in de nursery with all de other
cullud babies when she go work in de field. De old nurse, Jane, tooks care of us.

"Dat were de big place what Massa John have and dere 'bout fifty cullud families on de place,
so it am more'n a hunerd slaves what he own. I's runnin' round, like kids am allus doin', first
one place, den t'other, watchin' everything. De big bell ring in de mornin' and you'd see all
de cullud folks comin' from dey cabins, gwineter de kitchen to breakfast. Dat allus befo' daybreak,
and dey have to eat by de light of de pine torch. It am de pineknot torch. De meals am all
cooked dere and dey eat at long tables. De young'uns from six to ten year eats at de second
table and little'r den dat, in de nursery.

"I sho' 'members 'bout dat nursery feedin'. I never forgits how dat cornmeal mush and milk
am served in de big pans. Dey gives we uns de wooden spoon and we'uns crowds round de pans
like little pigs. I can see it now. Us push and shove and de nurse walk here and dere, tryin'
to make us eat like humans. She have to cuff one of us once in a while. If she don't, dem kids
be in de pans with both feet. When dey done eatin', dey faces am all smear with mush and milk.

"Massa allus feed plenty rations, only after war starts de old folks say dey am short of dis
and dat, 'cause dem sojers done took it for de army.

"After breakfast I'd see a crew go here and a crew go dere. Some of 'em spin and weave and
make clothes, and some tan de leather or do de blacksmith work, and mos' of 'em go out in de
field to work. Dey works till dark and den come home and work round de quarters.

"Dem quarters was 'bout ten by fifteen feet, each one, with a hole for de window dat am not
dere and de floor am de ground, and de straw bunks for to sleep on. In us cabin am mammy and
us three chillen and our aunt. My pappy done die befo' I 'member him. Some kind stomach mis'ry
kilt him.

"One day Massa Chapman call all us to de front gallery. Us didn't know what gwine to happen,
'cause it not ord'nary to git called from de work. Him ring de bell and dat am sho' 'nough
de liberty bell, 'cause him read from de long paper and say, 'You is slaves no more. You is
free, jus' like I is, and have to 'pend on yourselves for de livin'. All what wants to stay
I'll pay money to work, and a share of de crop, iffen you don't want money.' Mostest of dem
stays, and some what goes gits into troublement, 'cause den dere's trouble 'twixt de white
folks and de cullud folks. Some de niggers thinks they am bigger dan de white folks, 'cause
dey free, and de Klu Klux, what us call white caps, puts dem in de place dey 'longs.

"I gits chased by dem white caps once, jus' befo' us leave massa. Dat am when I's 'bout thirteen
year old. I's 'bout a mile off de place without de pass and it am de rule them days, all cullud
folks must have de pass to show where dey 'longs and where dey gwine. I has no business to
be off de place without de pass. 'Twas a gal.. Sho', day am it. Us walks down de road 'bout
a mile and am settin' 'hind some bushes, off de plantation. Us see dem white caps comin' down
de road on hossback and us ain't much scart, 'cause us think dey can't see us 'hind dem bushes.
But dat leader say, 'Whoa,' and dey could look down on us, 'cause dey on hossback. Well, gosh
for 'mighty! Dere us am and can't move den us so scart. One dem white caps says, 'What you
doin', nigger?' 'Jus' settin' here,' I telt him. 'Yous better start runnin', 'cause us gwine
try cotch you,' dey says.

"Us two niggers am down dat road befo' dem words am outten he mouth. Dey lets de hosses canter
'hind we'uns and us try to run faster. Fin'ly us gits home and dat de last time I goes off
without de pass.

"Mammy moves to Baton Rouge soon after dat and works as de housemaid. Us stay dere two year
and I gits some little jobs and den I goes to work for de railroad in Sedalia, up in Missouri,
and dere I works as section hand for de Katy railroad for twenty year. Den I gits through and
comes to Texas.

