I think Mr. BALFOUR must be something of a thought-reader. Intermingled with his narration
of the varied and wonderful achievements of the Fleet, past and present, his description of
the constant efforts to increase it both in ships and men, and his quietly confident prophecy
that with this sure shield we might face the future in cheerful serenity, there were little
sidethrusts at an imaginary critic. Some people had been silly enough to suggest that the new
Board of Admiralty was so content with what had been done by "my right hon. and learned--I
beg his pardon--gallant friend" that it had adopted a policy of "rest and be thankful". But
there was no justification for "a certain kind of sub-acid pessimism that sometimes reaches
my ears", and he must be a poor-spirited creature who, having been happy about the Navy in
August, 1914, could be depressed about in March, 1916.

Then Colonel CHURCHILL proceeded to put the cap on. He has been studying the problems of sea-power
in the trenches of Flanders, and the process has led him to gloomy conclusions. Suppose the
Germans have been building more ships than we have: suppose they have put into them bigger
guns than we wot of; suppose they were to come out at their selected moment and found us at
our average moment.... The House was beginning to be a little weary of these depressing hypotheses
when it was suddenly brought up all standing by the discovery that the orator was delivering
a eulogy on Lord Fisher. He was the man who got things done in a hurry. He was the man who
had the driving power. They had "parted brass-rags" over Gallipoli, it was true; but by-gones
were by-gones. Having been away for some months, his mind was now clear (irreverent laughter),
and he had come to recognise that his former foe was the only possible First Sea Lord.

It must have been a little embarrassing for Lord FISHER to sit still and hear his praises thus
chanted. But it is difficult to escape from the seat over the Clock without treading upon other
people's toes, and this Lord FISHER is notoriously averse from doing. The moment, however,
that Colonel CHURCHILL had finished he left the Gallery; but before he could wholly emerge
he had to suffer the further shock of being cheered by some over-enthusiastic admirers behind
him. It was a pity he left so soon, for later Sir HEDWORTH MEUX, fresh from Portsmouth, had
some things to say which would not have compelled his blushes.

Wednesday, March 8th.--Members wondered yesterday why no reply to Colonel CHURCHILL was forthcoming
from the Treasury Bench. Mr. BALFOUR made ample amends to-day for the omission. There is something
in the personality of his critic--memories of Lord RANDOLPH, perhaps--that seems to put on
extra polish on Mr. BALFOUR'S rapier when he deals with him. Who that heard it will ever forget
his inimitable description of the then HOME SECRETARY superintending--"with a photographer"--the
historic Siege of Sidney Street? This afternoon his sword-play was equally brilliant; and there
was even more force behind the thrusts. If there had been delay in the progress of the new
Dreadnoughts why was it? Because his right hon. predecessor had diverted the guns and gun-mountings
intended for them into his new-fangled monitors. He had boasted of his own rapid shipbuilding.
It had indeed been rapid--so much so that some of the vessels thus hastily constructed had
now been remodelled. Coming to the proposed "remedy"--the recall of Lord FISHER to the Board
of Admiralty--Mr. BALFOUR assumed a sterner tone. He reminded the house that Lord FISHER had
been accused by his present champion of not having given him clear guidance or firm support
over the Gallipoli Expedition. Colonel CHURCHILL'S present opinion of Lord FISHER was totally
inconsistent with that which he had expressed a few months ago: possibly they were both remote
from the truth. But it was an amazing proposition that the Government should be asked to dismiss
Sir HENRY JACKSON, an officer who was everything that Lord FISHER according to Colonel CHURCHILL
was not. He himself would not yield an inch to such a demand.

Spontaneous debate has never been the Colonel's strong point. His oratorical engines are driven
by midnight oil. Wisely, therefore, he did not attempt an elaborate réplique to Mr. BALFOUR'S
"sword-play," but contented himself with a brief restatement of his case.

Thursday, March 9th.--Prophets swarm in both Houses of Parliament, but the House of Lords is
unique in possessing one who confines himself to subjects which he has at his fingers' ends
and whose prophecies have a habit of coming true. What Lord MONTAGU OF BEAULIEU does not know
of the petrol engine, and its use on land or sea or in the air, is not worth knowing. Seven
years ago he warned his countrymen of the bomb-dropping possibilities of the new German air-ships.
A little later he pointed out that it was very doubtful if dirigible balloons could be successfully
attacked by gunfire from the ground, and that the only effective way of opposing them was to
meet like with like. Again in 1913 he dwelt upon the inadequacy of our aerial defences.

His object to-day was not to extol his own merits as a prophet, but to get the Government to
act on the motto "One Element One Service" and establish a single Ministry of the Air. Lord
HALDANE thought we ought to do some "violent thinking" before adopting the proposal, but quite
agreed (with a reminiscent glance at the Woolsack) that we had not made sufficient use of lighter-than-air
machines. That was Lord BERESFORD'S view, too; we must oppose Zeps to Zeps. Then, having evidently
done some violent thinking over the recent debate in the Commons he launched out into a wholly
irrelevant attack upon Colonel CHURCHILL for trying to create anxiety about the Fleet, and
appealed to Lord FISHER (who was not present though Lord BERESFORD had particularly invited
him) to repudiate the agitation conducted by the honourable Member for DUNDEE, a few newspapers
and twenty sandwichmen. Lord LANSDOWNE subsequently noted that this most irregular digression
appeared to be "not wholly distasteful" to the peers assembled. Turning to Lord MONTAGU'S proposal
he pointed out that the Government had gone some way to meet it by setting up Lord DERBY'S
Committee. But, though prepared to see the Cabinet increased to a round couple of dozen, he
was not convinced that the only way to remove imperfections was to appoint a new Minister to
deal with them.

It seems probable therefore that there is no truth in the report that Colonel CHURCHILL has
been asked to join the Government as Minister of Admonitions.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Painful Accident to a Clergyman.

    "While the Rev. Mr. Stulting was camping out one of his calves
    was attacked and stung to death by a passing swarm of bees."

    Cape Argus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir THOMAS MACKENZIE, as reported by The East Anglian Daily Times:--

    "I now think it is time you intermingled with your affairs a
    little of the wisdom of the sergent instead of the dove-like
    kindness which you have showed to the Germans in the past."

There is a strong feeling among our N.C.O.'s that this is sound advice.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lord Strachie asked in the House of Lords yesterday whether the
    Government proposed to restrict the importation of hope."

    Evening Paper.

We understand that the answer was in the negative, as, owing to the activity of pessimists,
there is still some shortage in the home-grown supplies.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RECONCILIATION.

[It is thought that the following story may have been intended for the "Organ of Organs" (R.A.M.C.)].

Charles, the young Army Medical, went down on one patella. His heart (a hollow muscular pump)
was driving blood from its ventricles as it had never yet driven it in all its twenty-five
years of incessant labour. Further, by flattening the arch of his diaphragm and elevating his
ribs and sternum, Charles was increasing the cavity of his thorax and taking in air. Immediately
the diaphragm and the sternum and costal cartilages relaxed again the air escaped. The lungs
of Charles were doing their work. Fast and yet faster became his breathing.

"Mabel," he murmured, "Mabel!"

The girl made no movement. Her respiration continued, but no impulse to action reached her
nerve-centres. Yet, without an effort on her part, her tissues in one minute produced enough
heat to boil one twenty-fourth of a pint of water.

"Wonderful!" he whispered hoarsely, probably thinking of this, "you are wonderful."

You will not marvel that his voice was gruff when I tell you that the membrane of the larynx
was inflamed. Greater men than Charles have become hoarse in such circumstances.

Immediately the blood rushed to the capillaries of Mabel's cheeks and her colour deepened.
She trembled slightly.

"There, that's it!" he cried, gazing rapturously.

"What?" she gasped, startled by his passion.

"Again that artery below your ear is throbbing, throbbing, and"--his voice rose in despair--"I
can never remember the name! Can you?"

"Alas," she moaned, "I do not know it! Oh, Charles, there is something I must tell you at once."

"What is it?" he cried with sudden fear. "What is it?"

"Why, I--I----Oh, I do not know how to say it. Charles, you will never forgive me!"

"What is it, dearest? Tell me--you can trust me. The medical profession----"

"Well, then, I tried to bandage little Johnny's foot yesterday, and--and----"

"Calm yourself, dear. And----?"

"I tied a 'granny' knot. Oh, Charles, don't be angry. I know it ought to have been a 'reef'!"

He looked about him dully, like a man stunned.

"Charles," she moaned, "listen! After all, I put it on the wrong foot."

He started violently.

"Mabel," he cried, "you are sure? Then I will not let you go. Had you tied that 'granny' knot
on the right foot, I--we--as an R.A.M.C. man, I----"

She clung to him sobbingly.

"Charles, oh Charles," she panted, "you have proved it to me. You love me! (Is my heart throbbing
now?) You love me and it will break for joy!"

The phalanges and the metacarpal bones of her left hand clicked together as if in sympathy
as she flung it to her side.

Again her cerebrum flashed its joyful message, so that she repeated, "My heart!"

At the word Charles, the R.A.M.C. man, rose from his patella and placed his hands firmly on
his femur bones.

His whole bearing had changed.

"This," he said slowly and ringingly, "is the end. When I entered this room I loved you--I
admit it. But--you have deceived me! Look at that hand! It is covering--what? The floating
costae! Your heart is not where you would have me believe. It is fully three inches higher
and more to the right. That is not a small matter, or one with which you should trifle as you
do. But you have deceived me in a greater than that."

"Oh, what is it? What have I done?" sobbed Mabel hysterically.

"The greater matter," continued Charles in trumpet tones, "is that the heart is not the seat
of the emotions at all. I can only conclude that your agitation was feigned. I wish you good-day,
Madam."

He had reached the door when she cried aloud.

"Charles!"

An urgent message from Charles's cerebellum, delivered to certain motor nerves by way of the
spinal cord, disposed him to turn on his heel.

He waited in silence.

"Charles dearest, if it was the wrong place, and I didn't cover my heart after all, why, Charles,
remember Johnny's foot and be logical!"

She was there before him, glorious, and Charles stood dazzled.

"You are right!" he cried. "Mabel! If you had covered your heart!!"

"Charles!!!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Yesterday between Forges and Bethincourt, west of the Meuse,
    the enemy made use of suffocating gas, but did not attack with
    infancy."--Timaru Herald (N.Z.).

We are glad to have this evidence that the Huns have given up using children to screen their
advances.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Plagues of rates have appeared at Pinsk, and in the British
    trenches."

    Buenos Ayres Herald.

Even at home we have not entirely escaped the epidemic.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Floating Baby Found Unarmed."

    Provincial Paper.

Had the Huns known of its defenceless condition they would never have allowed it to escape.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'Like a poet, a geographer is born, not mad,' once wrote Sir
    Clements Markham."

    Times of India.

Some poets will be greatly relieved by this doctrine.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES TO AN OLD FRIEND.

[Dr. GEORGE PERNET, in a recent treatise on "The Health of the Skin," discusses the continued
decline in the popularity of the tall hat.]

  O emblem of British decorum,
    Whose vogue, for a century back,
  In the Mart, in the House or the Forum
    Few dared to impugn or attack;
  'Tis sad, though the best of our bankers
    Refuse to allow such a lapse,
  That our youth irrepressibly hankers
        For straws and for caps.

  Mr. Seagram, in Masterman Ready,
    Is pictured in many a hole,
  And in postures however unsteady,
    With his chimney-pot hat on his poll;
  And our highly respected grand-paters,
    When wielding their golf-clubs or bats,
  Or proving their prowess as skaters,
        Wore cylinder hats.

  Worn straight by the priggish or surly
    Thou didst not enthuse or beguile;
  But tilted a little and curly
    Of brim--how seductive thy style!
  And never was pride that is proper
    Sartorially better expressed
  Than when an immaculate topper
        Sat light on one's crest.

  The cult of the bicycle, tending
    To foster a laxer array,
  And the motor, its influence lending,
    Both seriously threatened thy sway;
  But the War, most unfairly combining
    The motives of comfort and thrift,
  Thy glory, so sleek and so shining,
        Has finally biffed.

  Yet I cannot observe thy dethroning
    Or watch thy effulgence depart
  Without unaffectedly owning
    A pang of regret in my heart.
  I know thou wast stuffy, non-porous,
    Unstable, top-heavy and hot;
  But O! thou wast grimly decorous;
        The bowler is not.

       *       *       *       *       *

Agreed.

    "Original and inspiring as are Mr. Chesterton's writings, the
    man is very much bigger than his works."--Everyman.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "TOWN PLUNGED IN DARKNESS.

    Population Warned by Syrens and buzzards."

    Evening Paper.

"Our little town," writes the correspondent who sends us the above cutting, "was warned by
dryads and wombats." And of course there is the well-known case of the Roman geese and the Capitol.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Organist (willing to help train choir) wanted for country
    parish. Might suit clergyman's daughter."--Church Times.

He might, no doubt; but it is not safe to count on these affinities.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Manchester City Council on Wednesday decided to accept the
    free use of Professor W. B. Bottomley's patients for the
    conversion of raw peat by means of bacteria."

    Provincial Paper.

If we were the patients we should make a small charge for the loan of the germs.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "There has been a naval skirmish in the Baltic, where the
    elusive Goeben has been engaged by the Russians with the usual
    result--the escape of the fugitive battle-cruiser behind the
    mined defences of the Bosphorus."

    The Dominion (Wellington, N.Z.)

It must have been a fine sight to see this elusive vessel jump right across Russia and back again.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Cologne Gazette, referring to the simplicity of character
    displayed by King Ferdinand of Bulgaria, says that frequently
    when walking about the streets of Sofia he purchases a sausage
    from a stall and eats it with his fingers as he passes along.
    Latest advices say he is slowly recovering from his illness."

    Daily Express.

It might have been much worse if he had eaten the sausage with his mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FLAT OVERTURE.

I.

3, Fotheringay Court Mansions, S.W. March 1st.

Mrs. Sleight-Spender presents her compliments to Mrs. Crichton and would be obliged if she
would prevent what is evidently a schoolroom piano being practised late at night, as it is
most disturbing when one has friends.

II.

7, Fotheringay Court Mansions, S.W. March 1st.

Mrs. Crichton presents her compliments to Mrs. Sleight-Spender and would willingly oblige her,
but having neither a schoolroom nor a piano in her flat she finds a difficulty in doing so.
Possibly if Mrs. Sleight-Spender addressed her remonstrance to No. 12, she would discover the
cause of her complaint and might thereby earn the thanks of her neighbours by inducing Mr.
Bogloffsksy to practise less for his concerts.

III.

3, Fotheringay Court Mansions, S.W. March 2nd.

Dear Mr. BOGLOFFSKY,--Please forgive me for writing on the impulse of the moment in this unconventional
way, but I have only just discovered that we are neighbours, for the Directory confirms what
the unmistakable tones of a certain piano had long led me to suspect.

Will you very kindly waive all ceremony and join us at a friendly little dinner on the 10th,
at 7.30?

Yours sincerely,

Editha Sleight-Spender.

IV.

12, Fotheringay Court Mansions, S.W. March 2nd.

Dear MRS. SLEIGHT-SPENDER,--Your amiable letter leaves me nothing but pleasure. My poor company
shall be agreeable to join your hospitable family.

With respect, I am, Yours sincere,

Serge Bogloffsky.

V.

From Miss Isolt Sleight-Spender to Miss Marjorie Browne.

(Extract.)

... Oh, my dear, don't reproach me for not having run round. We are simply off our heads. Bogloffsky--the
Bogloffsky--is coming to dinner on Friday next, and the Mudder and I have been simply tearing.
Even the Sticklers have accepted, and we hope to get Sir Henry Say, as the Dudder met him once
at a City dinner. Of course I shall have to play something first. Pity me!....

VI.

From Mrs. Sleight-Spender to Messrs. Rosewood and Sons. March. 3rd.

Mrs. Sleight-Spender requires the use of a very good piano on the 10th. It must be a grand,
as it is for Mr. Bogloffsky. Under the circumstances Mrs. Sleight-Spender supposes there will
be only a nominal charge, if any.

VII.

From Sir Henry Say to Cuthbert Haddington. March 11th.

My dear Bertie,--Last night I skimmed some of the cream of life, and incidentally got an idea
for a lever de rideau, of which I make you a present.

Far be it from me to glean from the crop of trouble of a man whose salt I have eaten, but the
situation was a gift from the gods, which I will not spoil on a sheet of notepaper. When have
you a free evening?

Always, Harry.

