As soon as the Boers started shelling the camp, the battalion fell in on its parade-ground
in quarter-column and waited for orders. But when a shell fell just behind the ranks, Major
Bird moved it at the double through the camp to a donga which afforded good cover. The men
then removed their great-coats, and stayed for some minutes watching the Boer shells passing
over their heads. Eventually the King's Royal Rifles, Royal Irish Fusiliers, and the battalion
were ordered by the General to move in extended order through the town, and to concentrate
in the spruit already occupied by 'B' and 'E' companies. The Leicesters and 67th Battery were
left near the camp to watch Impati Mountain, since it was probable that the Boer force which
had occupied Newcastle would appear from that direction. The mounted troops (18th Hussars and
the Mounted Infantry company of the Dublin Fusiliers, under Captain Lonsdale, less Lieutenant
Cory's section, which, fortunately for it, was sent off in another direction), under the command
of Colonel Möller, were sent to turn the right flank of the Boers' position on Talana Hill
and so threaten their rear.

As the extended lines of the infantry moved through the town they were greeted by pompom fire,
which, however, did no damage. It was their first introduction to this hated and under-rated
weapon, whose moral effect is so great that, even if the casualties it inflicts are small in
number, it is always likely to exercise a marked influence, more especially on young troops
and at the commencement of a campaign. Men heard it in wonder, asking each other what it was,
and why had we nothing like it, and similar questions. By 6.30 a.m. the three battalions were
assembled in the bed of the spruit, and the General rode up with the Staff in order to give
his orders for the attack. The 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers were to form the firing line, with
the 60th Rifles in support and the Royal Irish Fusiliers in reserve. Under Talana Hill is a
wood surrounding a small house known as Smith's Farm. Between this wood and Sand Spruit is
a long stretch of veld, which on the day of the battle was intersected by several wire fences.
The battalion received orders to cross this open ground by successive companies, 'H' company,
under Lieutenant Shewan, formed the right of the line, and was the first company to leave the
shelter of the spruit. It made for the south-east corner of the wood, where it was afterwards
joined by the maxims, and at once opened fire on Talana and Dundee Hills. 'B' company under
Captain Dibley, 'A' company under Major English, and 'E' company under Captain Weldon extended
to ten paces, and followed in succession. The enemy had by this time developed a vigorous fire,
but the range was long and the casualties small. The advancing companies moved on steadily,
reached the edge of the wood, and entered it. They now became somewhat separated. 'A,' 'G'
(Captain Perreau), and 'F' inclined to the left, 'C' and 'E' remained in the centre with 'B'
on their right, while 'H' was held back at the corner of the wood. The latter was bounded on
the far side by a stone wall, beyond which stretched an open piece of ground until, further
up the hill, there was a second wall. At this point there was a sudden change in the slope
of the ground, which rose almost precipitously to the crest. Immediately opposite the point
where 'B' company issued from the wood a third wall ran up the hill, connecting the two already
mentioned. When the attackers reached the far end of the wood, they came under such a well-directed
and heavy fire that their progress was at first checked, in spite of the support afforded by
our artillery, which rained shrapnel on the hostile position. The Boers, lying behind the boulders
on the crest of Talana Hill, found excellent cover; while from Dundee Hill they could bring
an effective enfilade fire on the open space between the two parallel walls. Opposite 'A' company
a donga ran up the hill, and at first sight seemed to offer an excellent line of approach for
an attacking force. Major English, in command of the company, rushed forward and, in spite
of a heavy fire, succeeded in cutting a wire fence which closed the mouth of the donga. He
then, at about 8 a.m., led his company into the latter, and was followed by 'G' and 'F' (Captain
Hensley) companies; but the donga proved almost a death-trap, since it was swept by the rifles
of some picked marksmen on the right of the Boer position.

It was impossible for these three companies to advance any further, and they were therefore
forced to limit their efforts to an attempt to keep down the Boer fire. Meanwhile, General
Penn-Symons had, about 9.15 a.m., come up to the far edge of the wood, and crying, 'Dublin
Fusiliers, we must take the hill!' crossed the wall. Shortly afterwards he received a mortal
wound. Captain Weldon was also killed near the same spot in a gallant effort to help a wounded
comrade, No. 5078 Private Gorman. Captain Weldon, together with several men of his company,
had surmounted the wall in face of a heavy fire, and had taken cover in a small depression
on its further side. Private Gorman was hit in the very act of surmounting the obstacle, and
was falling backwards, when Captain Weldon, rushing out from his cover, seized him by the arm,
and was pulling him into safety when he himself was mortally wounded. Privates Brady and Smith
dragged him in under cover, but he only lived a few minutes. His dog, a fox-terrier named Rose,
had accompanied him through the fight, and when his body was later on recovered, the faithful
little animal was found beside it, and was afterwards taken care of by the men of 'E' company.
There was no more popular officer in the regiment than George Weldon, and his loss was deeply
felt by all ranks. He was the first officer of the Dublin Fusiliers to fall in the war, which
thus early asserted its claim to seize the best. He was buried that same afternoon in the small
cemetery, facing the hill on which he had met his death.

By this time, 9.30 a.m., the Rifles and Irish Fusiliers had closed up and become merged in
the firing line. Slowly, and by the advances of small parties at a time, the attackers gained
ground, principally by creeping along the transverse wall which afforded cover from the enemy
on Dundee Hill, Helped by the incessant fire of the artillery, which at 11.30 a.m. moved up
to the coalfields railway, the infantry gradually collected behind the second wall. They were
now within 150 yards of the crest, and the roar of battle grew in intensity. About 11.30 a.m.
Colonel Yule came up and ordered the hill to be assaulted, directing the battalion to charge
the right flank of the hill, and the Rifles the centre. Captain Lowndes, who was with the companies
on the right, led them across the wall and over an open piece of ground. He gave the command
'Right incline,' and so well were the men in hand that the order was promptly obeyed, shortly
after which he was badly wounded. Meanwhile, in the centre, men of all three regiments, led
by the Staff and regimental officers, dashed over the wall and began to clamber up the steep
and rocky slope. The artillery quickened its fire and covered the crest with shrapnel. But
the Boers still remained firm. Many of them stood up, their mackintoshes waving in the wind,
and poured a deadly fire on the assaulting infantry. Though most of these brave burghers paid
for their daring with their lives, they repulsed this first gallant charge. The Dublin Fusiliers
suffered many casualties in this first assault. Captain Lowndes, the Adjutant, had his leg
practically shattered, as he, with the other officers, ran ahead to lead the charge. Captain
Perreau was shot through the chest; Captain Dibley was almost on the top of the hill when hit.
He had a dim recollection of the gallant Adjutant of the Royal Irish Fusiliers racing up almost
alongside him and within a few paces of the summit, when he suddenly saw an aged and grey-bearded
burgher drawing a bead upon him at a distance of a few paces only. He snapped his revolver
at him, but only to fall senseless next moment with a bullet through his head. Marvellous though
it seems he made a comparatively speedy recovery, and was able to ride into Ladysmith, at the
head of his company, in the following February, having been in the hospital in the besieged
town in the interval. Evidence of the temporary nature of the discomfort caused by a bullet
through the head is afforded by the fact that he is to-day one of the best bridge-players in
the regiment. Poor young Genge, who had only recently joined, was mortally wounded, and died
shortly after the battle, killed in his first fight and in the springtime of life.

Sergeant-Major Burke's (now Quartermaster) experiences may be best told in his own words: 'It
must have been shortly after poor Weldon was killed that I came across "E" company; finding
no officer with them I assumed command, and on arrival at the donga handed them over to Major
Bird, and accompanied Colonel Yule, who had just arrived, and was ascending the hill. We had
only gone a few yards, and were about six paces from the top wall, when I was bowled over,
hit in the leg. It was a hot place, for as I lay there another bullet hit me in the shoulder.
I crawled as well as I could to a rock, and sitting up underneath it lit a pipe. Scarcely had
I got it to draw when a bullet dashed it out of my hand, taking a small piece of the top of
my thumb with it. Two men were shot dead so close that they fell across my legs, effectually
pinning me to the ground, while two more were wounded and fell alongside of me. At this juncture
Colour-Sergeants Guilfoyle (now Sergeant-Major) and James dashed out of cover, and, picking
me up, carried me to a more sheltered position, whence I could see what was going on all round,
without myself being seen.' He was left at Dundee with the wounded, and subsequently taken
to Pretoria with other prisoners of war.

Whilst the men and officers were thus recovering their breath for a renewed attack, a large
number were undoubtedly hit by our own shrapnel, as they clung closely to the hillside to avoid
coming under fire from the enemy, who still held the top. It was imperative to draw our gunners'
attention to their situation, to effect which purpose, an intrepid signaller, Private Flynn,
Royal Dublin Fusiliers, jumped up, and at the imminent risk of his own life freely exposed
himself in his endeavour to 'call up' the guns. Finding, after repeated attempts, that he could
not attract their attention, he boldly walked back down the hillside, torn as it was by mauser
fire, and personally delivered his message, a glorious and courageous example of that devotion
to duty which proved so strongly marked a characteristic of our N.C.O.'s and privates throughout
the war.

Major English now extricated his company from the donga and managed to reach the second wall,
where he collected all available men, including 'F' and 'G' companies, and maintained an incessant
fire on Dundee and Talana Hills. The artillery behind had never slackened in their efforts
to support the infantry, and their shrapnel searched the whole length of the crest line. This
combined fire began at last to tell. The rattle of the enemy's musketry, which had lasted since
6.30 a.m., gradually grew feebler, until about 1 p.m. our infantry made a second dash across
the wall and this time reached the top of the hill. Below them they saw the stream of flying
Boers hurrying across the veld. It was the moment for a vigorous outburst of musketry, but
'some one blundered,' and the fleeting moment sped without being taken advantage of. It is
true that those men who first arrived on the summit were firing away, and were joined in doing
so by every other man who breathlessly arrived. The company officers had just got their men
well in hand, and were directing the fire, when to every one's disgust, and sheer, blank amazement,
the 'Cease fire' sounded clear above the din of the fight. There was nothing for it but to
stop, but the sight of the enemy streaming away in dense masses just below them, that enemy
who had up to now been pouring a relentless hail of bullets on them for hours, was too much.
Captain Hensley rushed up to Major English, and after a brief conference, feeling certain the
call must have been blown in error, the latter gave the command to re-open fire. Barely was
it obeyed when the imperative bugle once more blared forth its interference, and the company
officers, the commanders of the recognised battle-units, had nothing left them but compliance.

The guns with 'D' company as escort had come to the neck between Talana and Dundee Hills, but
did not fire. The fight was over and Major English formed up the battalion. It then marched
back as a rearguard to the brigade, through Dundee to the camp, much as if after a field-day,
halting half-way to receive an issue of rations sent out by the A.S.C. It had lost two officers
and six men killed, and three officers and fifty-two men wounded. As the troops passed through
the town they were warmly cheered by the inhabitants. Late in the afternoon news reached the
camp that the Mounted Infantry company, together with a squadron of the 18th Hussars, had been
captured, but this was kept from the rank and file of the battalion. As already stated above,
Colonel Möller had been sent with the mounted troops round the right flank of the Boers. He
succeeded in his task, but proceeded too far, and when the enemy retreated from Talana Hill
he found himself with some 200 rifles attempting to stop a force of 4000 Boers. He was roughly
handled, but managed to get clear. Then, unluckily misled by the mist, he lost his way, and,
instead of returning to camp, moved towards Impati Mountain, where he stumbled into the Boer
main commando advancing from Newcastle. He took up a defensive position, placing the cavalry
in a kraal and the mounted infantry on some rising ground near. The enemy brought up artillery
and soon surrounded him, finally forcing him to surrender.

Talana Hill, in point of numbers, may not rank as a great battle, but its moral effect can
scarcely be exaggerated. It was the first conflict of the war. It was Majuba reversed, and
the issue had far-reaching consequences. The news of the victory spread quickly through South
Africa, and had considerable influence on the Dutch Colonists, who were, to use an expressive
colloquialism, 'sitting on the fence,' and kept them sitting there, at a time when had they
descended on the wrong side their action could not have failed to be extremely prejudicial
to the interests of the Empire; but over and above all else it showed to the world that the
British infantry could still attack and carry a position in face of modern rifle-fire, a lesson
which was never forgotten by Boer or Briton, in spite of after events. Moreover, Talana must
ever be a memorable name in the annals of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers, since it was the first
battle in which they had fought under their new title, which was from that day on to become
as well known as that of any regiment in the army.

The other regiments engaged had also suffered very severely, the 60th Rifles losing, amongst
other officers, their gallant chief, Colonel Gunning. It was curious that on the last occasion
the 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers had seen active service--the siege and capture of Mooltan--they
should then have fought alongside the 60th, as they did in the present instance.

CHAPTER II.

THE RETREAT FROM DUNDEE.

  'I am ready to halt.'--Ps. xxxviii. 17.

On the morning of October 21st, Colonel Yule, who, as senior officer, had taken over command
of the brigade, received the news that a Boer commando, under General Joubert, was advancing
by the Newcastle road. As the camp was within long-range artillery fire from Impati Mountain,
the brigade moved off at a moment's notice to the south and took up a defensive position. The
tents were left standing, but each man carried a waterproof sheet, a blanket, and great-coat,
while the waggons, massed in rear, had three to four days' supplies. Soon after 4:30 p.m. the
enemy appeared on Impati, and at once opened fire with a big gun, probably a forty-pounder.
The shells at first fell in the vacated camp, but the Boer artillerymen quickly discovered
the brigade, and made good practice, although they caused but slight damage. Our batteries
attempted to reply, but were outranged, their shells falling far short. Luckily for us a mist
came on, and the Boer gun ceased firing.

As soon as night fell the troops began to entrench themselves, for the situation of the brigade
was sufficiently unpleasant. In front was an enemy with superior numbers and heavier artillery,
and in rear, between Dundee and Ladysmith, another hostile force of unknown strength. To make
matters worse, it rained persistently and the night was cold. About 3 a.m. the brigade retreated
to Indumana Kopje, some one and a half miles to the south-east of the camp. Here a new position
was taken up before dawn, the guns and transport being massed behind the hill in order to be
out of sight from Impati.

Early in the morning of the 22nd, the spirits of the small force were raised by the news of
the victory at Elandslaagte. This caused great delight among the men: they were proud of their
own victory at Talana, and this further success roused them to a still higher pitch of enthusiasm.
The strategic side of the situation seldom appeals to the rank and file, and the consequence
was that when the retreat was commenced they were under the impression that they were being
led to yet another victory. When they were undeceived, they were undoubtedly very savage, especially
so at, what seemed to them, the callous desertion of their wounded comrades in Dundee.

Since it was possible that some of the defeated Boers might be retreating through the Biggarsberg,
a demonstration towards Glencoe Junction was ordered, the troops detailed being the 2nd Royal
Dublin Fusiliers, the 60th Rifles, one battery, and some cavalry. No time was given for breakfasts,
but the detachment moved off at 8 a.m. with the battalion as advance guard. On arriving within
1500 yards of the Junction, the battery shelled a party of the enemy on a hill to the west
of the railway, a proceeding which promptly provoked an answer from the Boer gun on Impati,
but another timely mist and rain saved the detachment from this unwelcome attention. No Boers
were seen in the pass, so the force, with the battalion as rearguard, returned to Indumana
Kopje at 12.30 p.m., when they were able to obtain dinners, the majority of the men having
been without food for twenty-four hours.

At 9 p.m. that evening orders were issued for the reoccupation of Talana Hill by the whole
force, but the various commanding officers were informed confidentially that Colonel Yule's
real intention was a retreat to Ladysmith by the Helpmakaar road. It was an extremely dark
night, and the battalion occupied nearly two hours in collecting the companies and reaching
the place of assembly at the foot of the kopje. It was not until after 11 p.m. that the brigade
actually started on the retreat in the following order: 1st 60th Rifles (advance-guard), 1st
Royal Irish Fusiliers, 13th Battery, Mounted Infantry, Transport, 67th and 69th Batteries,
2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers, 18th Hussars, 1st Leicestershire Regiment (rearguard). The force
occupied about four miles of road. The route was through Dundee, over Sand Spruit, and down
the Helpmakaar road through the Coalfields village. It was impossible to find an opportunity
for a return to the camp, which was left standing. All the tents, stores, and baggage, together
with the wounded, were left to the enemy. The battalion thus lost its band instruments and
camp equipment, while the officers had to sacrifice all their personal kit, and many articles
belonging to the mess. The waggons carried nothing but supplies, and no one in the force was
able to take away anything beyond what he carried on his person.

The column marched throughout the night, and far into the morning of the 23rd, only halting
at 10 a.m., when dinners were eaten on the high ground south of Blesbok Pass, about fifteen
miles from Dundee. That the Boers were watching the retreat was proved by one of their heliographs
trying to 'pick up' the column. The march was resumed after a two hours' rest, and continued
to Beith (twenty-one miles from Dundee), where, at 3 p.m., another halt was made. The men cooked
their teas, and had a chance of a brief sleep, but at 11 p.m. they had to start again. The
road, a very bad one, lay through the pass leading to the Waschbank River. The battalion formed
the advance-guard, with two Natal mounted policemen as guides. It was a weary tramp, for, owing
to the wretched road, long halts were necessary in order to allow the waggons to close up.
At dawn, the 18th Hussars took over the duties of advance-guard, and were supported by 'F'
company, under Captain Hensley.

During the night a mysterious heliograph was seen twinkling and blinking away on the left flank.
After some difficulty it was ascertained that it was communicating with the farm of a man named
Potgieter, professedly a British subject. He was, in fact, caught in flagrante delicto in full
communication with the unknown Boer signaller, and paid for his crime with his life.

At 10 a.m. on the 24th, the head of the column reached the Waschbank (thirty-six miles), crossed,
and halted on the south side of the river. The waggons were not over until 12.30 p.m. A welcome
meal and a bathe in the stream refreshed the men, some of whom had had no proper sleep for
three nights. Heavy firing was heard from the direction of Ladysmith, and the mounted troops,
with the artillery, were sent off to reconnoitre and see if they could render any assistance
to Sir George White. They met with nothing, however, and returned before 5 p.m. Meanwhile the
infantry had also been disturbed, for at 2 p.m. they recrossed the river in order to occupy
a better position to oppose a rumoured pursuit of the Boers. As the latter did not appear,
the river was again forded at 4 p.m., and only just in time. A violent thunderstorm burst,
and the water rose ten feet in two hours. 'H' company, under Lieutenant Shewan, and a patrol
of the 18th Hussars were left on the north bank, and were thus cut off from the main body for
several hours.

It rained in torrents until 11 p.m., and the battalion, formed in quarter-column, had to lie
down in pools of water, and get what sleep it could. At 5 a.m. on the 25th, in bright sunshine,
the retreat was resumed. 'H' company crossed to the south bank a few minutes before the column
moved off, although the water was still up to the men's waists. The Dublin Fusiliers formed
the rearguard, and marched till mid-day, when Sunday's River (forty-eight miles) was reached.
'A' company remained on the north bank to cover the crossing of the waggons, and at 2.30 p.m.
the column went on, only halting at 4.30 for tea. Everybody hoped to have a long rest here,
but at 6.30 p.m. Major Bird was sent for, and informed that, as the Boers were in close pursuit,
a night march was necessary.

The brigade accordingly started at 7 p.m., at the same moment that heavy rain began to fall.
The road quickly became inches deep in mud, every one was soon wet to the skin, and the night
was so dark that a man in each section of fours had to hold on to the canteen strap of the
man in front in order to keep the proper direction. As an additional evil, the battalion was
still rearguard, which is generally the most tiring position in a column. Halts were frequent,
and the men were so exhausted that many of them, when they stopped for a moment, fell down
in the mud and slept. Soon after midnight the 18th Hussars, who were keeping connection between
the Irish Fusiliers and the rearguard, disappeared. It was so dark that the latter could have
no certainty of being on the right road, but was obliged to struggle on blindly. Majors Bird
and English established a code of signals by whistle, in order to keep the companies closed
up. Dawn still found the battalion marching, dead tired, but luckily in its proper place behind
the column, and without a man missing. It was not until 8 a.m. on the 26th that this wearisome
march ended. Then Modderspruit, seven miles north of Ladysmith, and sixty-five from Dundee,
was reached, and the men sank down, too weary to care about anything. After a brief interval,
however, they recovered sufficiently to eat their bully beef and biscuits. It had been a trying
march for all, although the column had accomplished only twelve miles in eleven hours. As an
instance of the general weariness, it is recorded that a subaltern, during the meal, was asked
to pass the mustard, and fell asleep with his arm outstretched and the mustard-pot in his hand.

But the brigade was still not allowed to rest. At 11 a.m. it was on the 'trek' again, and marched
till 2 p.m., when the long retreat came to an end, and Ladysmith was entered. Here the Devonshire
and Gloucestershire Regiments earned the undying gratitude of the regiment by providing officers
and men with a meal, as well as by pitching a camp for them.

On arriving at Ladysmith, tents, equipment, mules, and, in fact, all that had been lost at
Dundee, were issued, and the battalion went into camp near the cemetery.

The column was fortunate in having Colonel (now General) Dartnell with it. This officer, after
serving with distinction for many years in the regular army, had, on retirement, settled down
in Natal, where he was, previous to the war, in command of the Natal Police. A great hunter
and fisherman, he knew every inch of the country, knowledge which proved of invaluable assistance
in the trying march.

CHAPTER III.

FROM COLENSO TO ESTCOURT.

  'If thou hope to please all, thy hopes are vaine;
  If thou feare to displease some, thy feares are idle.'

                              Francis Quarles.

On October 28th Colonel Cooper arrived at Ladysmith from England and took over the command
from Major Bird. The battalion was able to rest from the 27th to the 29th, and recover from
the fatigue of the retreat to Ladysmith.

The Headquarter Staff issued orders on the 29th for a general movement, to take place the next
day, against the enemy, who were closing in on the town. The Dublin Fusiliers formed part of
Colonel Grimwood's brigade, which also included the 1st and 2nd King's Royal Rifles, the Leicesters,
and the Liverpools. The task assigned to Colonel Grimwood was the capture of Long Hill.

In order to be in position for the assault by dawn, it was necessary for the brigade to make
a night march, and the battalion paraded about 9.30 p.m. on Sunday evening, the 29th October.
It formed the rear of the brigade, to which was attached a brigade of artillery. 'F' and 'B'
companies were left behind on piquet duty.

Owing to the difficulties inherent in a night march, and, perhaps, also to faulty staff management,
the artillery, the Dublin Fusiliers, and Liverpool Regiment diverged from the route followed
by the rest of the brigade. As a result of this mistake the battalion took practically no part
in the battle of the 30th, but, after a vain endeavour to find Colonel Grim wood's force, spent
the morning lying on the crest of a small ridge near Lombard's Kop. It came under shell and
long-range rifle fire, but lost no men. The attempt to drive back the Boers was a failure,
and the army fell back on Ladysmith about mid-day. The battalion reached camp at 2 p.m. and
was dismissed. All ranks were somewhat tired, for the sun had been hot, and after dinner sleep
reigned supreme.

But about 4 p.m. Colonel Cooper received from Headquarters an order to proceed by train to
Colenso, with the object of protecting the important railway bridge which crosses the Tugela
at that place. The Natal Field Artillery, in addition to his own unit, was placed under his
command. On the receipt of this order, camp was struck, and the tents and baggage sent down
to the station. The piquets found by the Dublin Fusiliers were ordered to be relieved by other
corps, but although 'F' company, under Captain Hensley, came in, Lieutenant H. W. Higginson's
piquet, on the ridge to the east of the cemetery, could not rejoin in time, principally owing
to the fact that the greater part of the Gloucestershire Regiment, which had been detailed
to find the relief, had been captured at Nicholson's Nek. Lieutenant Higginson and his men
were thus left to share in the siege of Ladysmith. The battalion transport, under Lieutenant
Renny, also had to remain behind. An account of their experiences during the siege is given
by Lieutenant Renny in Chapter IX.

With these exceptions the whole battalion marched down to the station soon after 11 p.m., and
was dispatched in two trains. As Boers had been reported on Bulwana Hill during the afternoon,
a certain amount of risk seemed to attend the journey. There was nothing to prevent the enemy
from cutting the line at any point in the hilly country between Ladysmith and Pieter's Station,
while even a small hostile force could have played havoc with the crowded trucks.

However, the enemy had luckily not penetrated to the railway line, and after an uneventful,
though unpleasant, journey, Colenso was reached at 4.30 a.m. on the 31st.

The two railway bridges over the Tugela and Onderbrook Spruit were already protected by a small
force, consisting of the Durban Light Infantry, a squadron of the Imperial Light Horse, and
a detachment of the Natal Naval Volunteers, with a gun. These units had made good defensive
works, notably Forts Wylie and Molyneux, guarding the railway bridges over the Tugela and Onderbrook
Spruit respectively.

We encamped some 300 yards south-west of Colenso, and the day (October 31st) was spent in making
further defences, and dividing the garrison into sections. Colenso was not, however, an easy
place to defend. It was commanded by the lofty hills on the left bank of the Tugela, and by
Hlangwane Hill on the right bank to the east of the village. The garrison, moreover, was lacking
in artillery, having only some muzzle-loading guns with a very limited range. Colonel Cooper
telegraphed to Maritzburg asking for a naval twelve-pounder, which, however, could not be obtained.

