What, it may be asked, is the meaning and explanation of all this? It is that at certain earlier
periods of a nation’s life its genius is synthetic, and at later becomes analytic. At earlier
periods all is by synthesis; and men love to contemplate the thing, and the mode of the thing,
together, as a single idea, bound up in one. But a time arrives when the intellectual obtains
the upper hand of the imaginative, when the tendency of those that speak the language is to
analyse, to distinguish between these two, and not only to distinguish but to divide, to have
one word for the thing itself, and another for the quality of the thing; and this, as it would
appear, is true not of some languages only, but of all.

{FOOTNOTES}

{128} [Apparently a slip for ‘ebb’]

{129} It is still used in prose as late as the age of Henry VIII; see
      the State Papers, vol. viii. p. 247. It was the latest survivor
      of a whole group or family of words which continued much longer in
      Scotland than with us; of which some perhaps continue there still;
      these are but a few of them; ‘wanthrift’ for extravagance;
      ‘wanluck’, misfortune; ‘wanlust’, languor; ‘wanwit’, folly;
      ‘wangrace’, wickedness; ‘wantrust’ (Chaucer), distrust, [Also
      ‘wan-ton’, devoid of breeding (towen). Compare German
      wahn-sinn, insanity, and wahn-witz.]

{130} We must not suppose that this still survives in ‘girfalcon’;
      which wholly belongs to the Latin element of the language; being
      the later Latin ‘gyrofalco’, and that, “a gyrando, quia diu
      gyrando acriter prædam insequitur”.

{131} [‘Heft’, from ‘heave’ (Winter’s Tale, ii. 1, 45), is widely
      diffused in the Three Kingdoms and in America. See E.D.D. s.v.]

{132} “Some hot-spurs there were that gave counsel to go against them
      with all their forces, and to fright and terrify them, if they
      made slow haste”. (Holland’s Livy, p. 922.)

{133} State Papers, vol. vi. p. 534.

{134} [‘Malinger’, French malingre (mistakenly derived above), stands
      for old French mal-heingre (maliciously or falsely ill, feigning
      sickness), which is from Latin male aeger, with an intrusive
      n--Scheler.]

{135} [To which the late Boer War contributed many more, such as
      ‘kopje’, ‘trek’, ‘slim’, ‘veldt’, etc.]

{136} The only two writers of whom I am aware as subsequently using this
      word are, both writing in Ireland and of Irish matters, Spenser
      and Swift. The passages are both quoted in Richardson’s
      Dictionary. [‘Bawn’ stands for the Irish ba-dhun (not
      bábhun, as in N.E.D.), or bo-dhun, literally ‘cow-fortress’, a
      cattle enclosure (Irish bo, a cow). See P. W. Joyce, Irish
      Names of Places, 1st ser. p. 297.]

{137} There is an excellent account of this “refugee French” in Weiss’
      History of the Protestant Refugees of France.

{138} [Thus the Shakespearian word renege (Latin renegare), to deny
      (Lear ii, 2) still lives in the mouths of the Irish peasantry. I
      have heard a farmer’s wife denounce those who “renege [renaig]
      their religion”.]

{139} With all its severity, there is some truth in Ben Johnson’s
      observation: “Spenser, in affecting the ancients, writ no
      language”. In this matter, however, Ben Jonson was at one with
      him; for he does not hesitate to express his strong regret that
      this form has not been retained. “The persons plural” he says
      (English Grammar, c. 17), “keep the termination of the first
      person singular. In former times, till about the reign of King
      Henry VIII, they were wont to be formed by adding en; thus,
      loven, sayen, complainen.

{140} [The two words are often popularly confounded. When a good woman
      said “I’m afeerd”, Mr. Pickwick exclaimed “Afraid”! (Pickwick
      Papers, ch. v.). Chaucer, instructively, uses both in the one
      sentence, “This wyf was not affered ne affrayed” (Shipman’s
      Tale, l. 400).]

{141} Génin (Récréations Philologiques, vol. i. p. 71) says to the
      same effect: “Il n’y a guères de faute de Français, je dis faute
      générale, accréditée, qui n’ait sa raison d’être, et ne pût au
      besoin produire ses lettres de noblesse; et souvent mieux en règle
      que celles des locutions qui ont usurpé leur place au soleil”.

{142} A single proof may in each case suffice:

          “Our wills and fates do so contráry run”.--Shakespeare.

          “Ne let mischiévous witches with their charms”.--Spenser.

          “O argument blasphémous, false and proud”.--Milton.

      [These archaisms are still current in Ireland.]

{143} I cannot doubt that this form which our country people in
      Hampshire, as in many other parts, always employ, either retains
      the original pronunciation, our received one being a modern
      corruption; or else, as is more probable, that we have made a
      confusion between two originally different words, from which they
      have kept clear. Thus in Howell’s Vocabulary, 1659, and in
      Cotgrave’s French and English Dictionary both words occur:
      “nuncion or nuncheon, the afternoon’s repast”, (cf. Hudibras, i.
      1, 346: “They took their breakfasts or their nuncheons”), and
      “lunchion, a big piece” i.e. of bread; for both give the old
      French ‘caribot’, which has this meaning, as the equivalent of
      ‘luncheon’. It is clear that in this sense of lump or ‘big piece’
      Gay uses ‘luncheon’:

          “When hungry thou stood’st staring like an oaf,
          I sliced the luncheon from the barley loaf”;

      and Miss Baker in her Northamptonshire Glossary explains ‘lunch’
      as “a large lump of bread, or other edible; ‘He helped himself to
      a good lunch of cake’”. We may note further that this ‘nuntion’
      may possibly put us on the right track for arriving at the
      etymology of the word. Richardson has called attention to the fact
      that it is spelt “noon-shun” in Browne’s Pastorals, which must
      at least suggest as possible and plausible that the ‘nuntion’ was
      originally applied to the labourer’s slight meal, to which he
      withdrew for the shunning of the heat of the middle noon:
      especially when in Lancashire we find a word of similar formation,
      ‘noon-scape’, and in Norfolk ‘noon-miss’, for the time when
      labourers rest after dinner. [It really stands for the older
      English none-schenche, i.e. ‘noon-skink’ or noon-drink (see
      Skeat, Etym. Dict., s.v.), correlative to ‘noon-meat’ or
      ‘nam-met’.] It is at any rate certain that the dignity to which
      ‘lunch’ or ‘luncheon’ has now arrived, as when we read in the
      newspapers of a “magnificent luncheon”, is altogether modern;
      the word belonged a century ago to rustic life, and in literature
      had not travelled beyond the “hobnailed pastorals” which professed
      to describe that life.

{144} See it so written, Holland’s Pliny, vol. ii. p. 428, and often.

{145} As a proof of the excellent service which an accurate acquaintance
      with provincial usages may render in the investigation of the
      innumerable perplexing phenomena of the English language, I would
      refer to the admirable article On English Pronouns Personal in
      Transactions of the Philological Society, vol. i. p. 277.

{146} [We now have the good fortune to possess a complete collection of
      this valuable class of words in the splendid “English Dialect
      Dictionary”, edited by Professor Joseph Wright of Oxford, which is
      an essential supplement to all existing dictionaries of our
      language.]

{147} This last very curious usage, which served as a kind of
      stepping-stone to ‘its’, and of which another example occurs in
      the Geneva Version (Acts xii. 10), and three or four in
      Shakespeare, has been abundantly illustrated by those who have
      lately written on the early history of the word ‘its’; thus see
      Craik, On the English of Shakespeare, p. 91; Marsh, Manual of
      the English Language (Eng. Edit.), p. 278; Transactions of the
      Philological Society, vol. 1. p. 280; and my book On the
      Authorized Version of the New Testament, p. 59.

{148} Thus Fuller (Pisgah Sight of Palestine, vol. ii. p. 190): “Sure
      I am this city [the New Jerusalem] as presented by the prophet,
      was fairer, finer, slicker, smoother, more exact, than any
      fabric the earth afforded”.

{149} [In the United States ‘plunder’ is used for personal effects,
      baggage and luggage (Webster). This is not noticed in the E.D.D.]

{150} [But we have acquired, in some quarters, the abomination ‘an
      invite’.]

{151} How many words modern French has lost which are most vigorous and
      admirable, the absence of which can only now be supplied by a
      circumlocution or by some less excellent word--‘Oseur’,
      ‘affranchisseur’ (Amyot), ‘mépriseur’, ‘murmurateur’,
      ‘blandisseur’ (Bossuet), ‘abuseur’ (Rabelais), ‘désabusement’,
      ‘rancœur’, are all obsolete at the present. So ‘désaimer’, to
      cease to love (‘disamare’ in Italian), ‘guirlander’, ‘stériliser’,
      ‘blandissant’, ‘ordonnément’ (Montaigne), with innumerable others.

{152} [It has now attained a fair currency.]

{153} [‘Gainly’ is still used by nineteenth century writers, 1855-86;
      see N.E.D.]

{154} [‘Dehort’ has been used in modern times by Southey (Letters,
      1825, iii, 462), and Cheyne (Isaiah, introd. 1882, xx.)--N.E.D.]

{155} [Tennyson has endeavoured to resuscitate the word--“Rathe she
      rose”--Lancelot and Elaine--but with no great success.]

{156} For other passages in which ‘rathest’ occurs, see the State
      Papers, vol. ii. pp. 92, 170.

{157} [‘Buxom’ for old English buc-sum or buch-sum, i.e. ‘bow-some’,
      yielding, compliant, obedient. “Sara was buxom to Abraham”, 1
      Pet. iii, 6 (xiv. Cent. Version, ed. Pawes, p. 216).]

{158} [‘Lissome’ for lithe-some, like Wessex blissom for
      blithe-some. Tennyson has “as lissome as a hazel wand”--The
      Brook, l. 70.]

{159} Jamieson’s Dictionary gives a large number of words with this
      termination which I should suppose were always peculiar to
      Scotland, as ‘bangsome’, i.e. quarrelsome, ‘freaksome’, ‘drysome’,
      ‘grousome’ (the German ‘grausam’) [Now in common use as
      ‘gruesome’.]

{160} [A list of some of these reduplicated words was given by Dr. Booth
      in his “Analytical Dictionary of the English Language”, 1835; but
      a full collection of nearly six hundred was published by Mr. H. B.
      Wheatley in the Transactions of the Philological Society for
      1865.]

{161} Many languages have groups of words formed upon the same scheme,
      although, singularly enough, they are altogether absent from the
      Anglo-Saxon. (J. Grimm, Deutsche Gramm., vol. ii. p. 976). The
      Spaniards have a great many very expressive words of this
      formation. Thus with allusion to the great struggle in which
      Christian Spain was engaged for so many centuries, a vaunting
      braggart is a ‘matamoros’, a ‘slaymoor’; he is a ‘matasiete’, a
      ‘slayseven’; a ‘perdonavidas’, a ‘sparelives’. Others may be added
      to these, as ‘azotacalles’, ‘picapleytos’, ‘saltaparedes’,
      ‘rompeesquinas’, ‘ganapan’, ‘cascatreguas’.

{162} [This stands for ‘peak-goose’ (peek goos in Ascham,
      Scholemaster, 1570, p. 54, ed. Arber), a goose that peaks or
      pines, used for a sickly, delicate person, and a simpleton. In
      Chapman, Cotgrave and others it appears as ‘pea-goose’.]

{163} The mistake is far earlier; long before Cowper wrote the sound
      suggested first this sense, and then this spelling. Thus
      Stanihurst, Description of Ireland, p. 28: “They are taken for
      no better than rakehels, or the devil’s black guard”; and
      often elsewhere.

{164} [i.e. in Joshua Sylvester’s translation of “Du Bartas, his Diuine
      Weekes and Workes”, 1621.]

{165} As not, however, turning on a very coarse matter, and
      illustrating the subject with infinite wit and humour, I might
      refer the Spanish scholar to the discussion between Don Quixote
      and his squire on the dismissal of ‘regoldar’, from the language
      of good society, and the substitution of ‘erutar’ in its room
      (Don Quixote, 4. 7. 43). In a letter of Cicero to Pætus (Fam.
      ix. 22) there is a subtle and interesting disquisition on
      forbidden words, and their philosophy.

{166} Literature of Greece, p. 5.

{167} [Notwithstanding the analogous instance of ‘abbess’ for ‘abbatess’
      this account of ‘lass’ must be abandoned. It is the old English
      lasce (akin to Swedish lösk), meaning (1) one free or
      disengaged, (2) an unmarried girl (N.E.D.)]

{168} In Cotgrave’s Dictionary I find ‘praiseress’, ‘commendress’,
      ‘fluteress’, ‘possesseress’, ‘loveress’, but have never met them
      in use.

{169} On this termination see J. Grimm, Deutsche Gramm., vol. ii. p.
      134; vol. iii. p. 339.

{170} [The Knightes Tale, ed. Skeat, l. 2017.]

{171} [Yes; so in N.E.D.]

{172} I am indebted for these last four to a Nominale in the National
      Antiquities, vol. i. p. 216.

{173} The earliest example which Richardson gives of ‘seamstress’ is
      from Gay, of ‘songstress’, from Thomson. I find however
      ‘sempstress’ in the translation of Olearius’ Voyages and
      Travels, 1669, p. 43. It is quite certain that as late as Ben
      Jonson, ‘seamster’ and ‘songster’ expressed the female seamer
      and singer; a single passage from his Masque of Christmas is
      evidence to this. Compare a passage from Holland’s Leaguer, 1632:
      “A tyre-woman of phantastical ornaments, a sempster for
      ruffes, cuffes, smocks and waistcoats”.

{174} This was about the time of Henry VIII. In proof of the confusion
      which reigned on the subject in Shakespeare’s time, see his use of
      ‘spinster’ as--‘spinner’, the man spinning, Henry VIII, Act.
      i. Sc. 2; and I have no doubt that it is the same in Othello,
      Act i. Sc. 1. And a little later, in Howell’s Vocabulary, 1659,
      ‘spinner’ and ‘spinster’ are both referred to the male sex, and
      the barbarous ‘spinstress’ invented for the female.

{175} I have included ‘huckster’, as will be observed, in this list. I
      certainly cannot produce any passage in which it is employed as
      the female pedlar. We have only, however, to keep in mind the
      existence of the verb ‘to huck’, in the sense of to peddle (it is
      used by Bishop Andrews), and at the same time not to let the
      present spelling of ‘hawker’ mislead us, and we shall confidently
      recognize ‘hucker’ (the German ‘höker’ or ‘höcker’), in hawker,
      that is, the man who ‘hucks’, ‘hawks’, or peddles, as in
      ‘huckster’ the female who does the same. When therefore Howell
      and others employ ‘hucksteress’, they fall into the same barbarous
      excess of expression, whereof we are all guilty, when we use
      ‘seamstress’ and ‘songstress’.--The note stood thus in the third
      edition. Since that was published, I have met in the Nominale
      referred to p. 155, the following, “hæc auxiatrix, a hukster”.
      [Huckster, xiii. cent. huccster, it may be noted is an older
      word in the language than hukker (hucker) and to huck, both
      first appearing in the xiv. cent. N.E.D.]

{176} [Preserved in the surnames Baxter and Brewster. See C. W.
      Bardsley, English Surnames, 2nd ed. 364, 379.]

{177} Notes and Queries, No. 157.

{178} [‘Welkin’ is possibly a plural, but in Anglo-Saxon wolcen is a
      cloud, and the plural wolcnu.]

{179} When Wallis wrote, it was only beginning to be forgotten that
      ‘chick’ was the singular, and ‘chicken’ the plural: “Sunt qui
      dicunt in singulari ‘chicken’, et in plurali ‘chickens’”; and
      even now the words are in many country parts correctly employed.
      In Sussex, a correspondent writes, they would as soon think of
      saying ‘oxens’ as ‘chickens’. [‘Chicken’ is properly a singular,
      old English cicen, the -en being a diminutival, not a plural,
      suffix (as in ‘kitten’, ‘maiden’). Thus ‘chicken’ was originally
      ‘a little chuck’ (or cock), out of which ‘chick’ was afterwards
      developed.]

{180} See Chaucer’s Romaunt of the Rose, 1032, where Richesse, “an
      high lady of great noblesse”, is one of the persons of the
      allegory; and compare Rev. xviii. 17, Authorized Version. This has
      so entirely escaped the knowledge of Ben Jonson, English scholar
      as he was, that in his Grammar he cites ‘riches’ as an example
      of an English word wanting a singular.

{181} “Set shallow brooks to surging seas,
      An orient pearl to a white pease”.

                                        Puttenham.

{182} [‘Eaves’ (old English efes) from which an imaginary singular
      ‘eave’ has sometimes been evolved, as when Tennyson speaks of a
      ‘cottage-eave’ (In Memoriam, civ.), and Cotgrave of ‘an
      house-eave’.]

{183} It is curious that despite of this protest, one of his plays has
      for its name, Sejanus his Fall.

{184} Even this does not startle Addison, or cause him any misgiving; on
      the contrary he boldly asserts (Spectator, No. 135), “The same
      single letter ‘s’ on many occasions does the office of a whole
      word, and represents the ‘his’ or ‘her’ of our forefathers”.

{185} Nothing can be better than the way in which Wallis disposes of
      this scheme, although less successful in showing what this ‘s’
      does mean than in showing what it cannot mean (Gramm. Ling.
      Anglic., c. 5); Qui autem arbitrantur illud s, loco his
      adjunctum esse (priori scilicet parte per aphæresim abscissâ),
      ideoque apostrophi notam semper vel pingendam esse, vel saltem
      subintelligendam, omnino errant. Quamvis enim non negem quin
      apostrophi nota commode nonnunquam affigi possit, ut ipsius
      litteræ s usus distinctius, ubi opus est, percipiatur; ita tamen
      semper fieri debere, aut etiam ideo fieri quia vocem his innuat,
      omnino nego. Adjungitur enim et fœminarum nominibus propriis, et
      substantivis pluralibus, ubi vox his sine solœcismo locum habere
      non potest: atque etiam in possessivis ours, yours, theirs,
      hers, ubi vocem his innui nemo somniaret.

{186} See the proofs in Marsh’s Manual of the English Language,
      English Edit., pp. 280, 293.

{187} I cannot think that it would exceed the authority of our
      University Presses, if this were removed from the Prayer Books
      which they put forth, as certainly it is supprest by many of the
      clergy in the reading. Such a liberty they have already assumed
      with the Bible. In all earlier editions of the Authorized Version
      it stood at 1 Kin. xv. 24: “Nevertheless Asa his heart was
      perfect with the Lord”; it is “Asa’s heart” now. In the same way
      “Mordecai his matters” (Esth. iii. 4) has been silently changed
      into “Mordecai’s matters”; and in some modern editions, but not
      in all, “Holofernes his head” (Judith xiii. 9) into
      “Holofernes’ head”.

{188} In a good note on the matter, p. 6, in the Comprehensive Grammar
      prefixed to his Dictionary, London, 1775.

{189} See Grimm. Deut. Gramm., vol. ii. pp. 609, 944.

{190} The existence of ‘stony’--‘lapidosus’, ‘steinig’, does not make
      ‘stonen’--‘lapideus’, ‘steinern’, superfluous, any more than
      ‘earthy’ makes ‘earthen’. That part of the field in which the good
      seed withered so quickly (Matt. xiii. 5) was ‘stony’. The vessels
      which held the water that Christ turned into wine (John iii. 6)
      were ‘stonen’.

{191} J. Grimm (Deutsche Gramm. vol. i, p. 1040): Dass die starke form
      die ältere, kräftigere, innere; die schwache die spätere,
      gehemmtere und mehr äusserliche sey, leuchtet ein. Elsewhere,
      speaking generally of inflections by internal vowel change, he
      characterizes them as a ‘chief beauty’ (hauptschönheit) of the
      Teutonic languages. Marsh (Manual of the English Language, p.
      233, English ed.) protests, though, as it seems to me, on no
      sufficient grounds, against these terms ‘strong’ and ‘weak’, as
      themselves fanciful and inappropriate.

{192} The entire ignorance as to the past historic evolution of the
      language, with which some have undertaken to write about it, is
      curious. Thus the author of Observations upon the English
      Language, without date, but published about 1730, treats all
      these strong præterites as of recent introduction, counting ‘knew’
      to have lately expelled ‘knowed’, ‘rose’ to have acted the same
      part toward ‘rised’, and of course esteeming them as so many
      barbarous violations of the laws of the language; and concluding
      with the warning that “great care must be taken to prevent their
      increase”!!--p. 24. Cobbett does not fall into this absurdity, yet
      proposes in his English Grammar, that they should all be
      abolished as inconvenient. [Now many others are rapidly becoming
      obsolescent. How seldom do we hear ‘drank’, ‘shrank’, ‘sprang’,
      ‘stank’.]

{193} J. Grimm (Deutsche Gramm. vol. i. p. 839): “Die starke flexion
      stufenweise versinkt und ausstirbt, die schwache aber um sich
      greift”. Cf. i. 994, 1040; ii. 5; iv. 509.

{194} [See also J. C. Hare, Two Essays in Eng. Philology i. 47-56.]

{195} Thus Wallis (Gramm. Ling. Anglic., 1654): Singulari numero
      siquis alium compellet, vel dedignantis illud esse solet, vel
      familiariter blandientis. [For a good discussion of the old use of
      ‘thou’, see the Hares, Guesses at Truth, 1847, pp. 169-90. Even
      at the present day a Wessex matron has been known to resent the
      too familiar address of an inferior with the words, “Who bist thou
      a-theein’ of”? (The Spectator, 1904, Sept. 3, p. 319).]

{196} What the actual position of the compellation ‘thou’ was at that
      time, we may perhaps best learn from this passage in Fuller’s
      Church History, Dedication of Book vii.: “In opposition
      whereunto [i.e. to the Quaker usage] we maintain that thou from
      superiors to inferiors is proper, as a sign of command; from
      equals to equals is passable, as a note of familiarity; but from
      inferiors to superiors, if proceeding from ignorance, hath a smack
      of clownishness; if from affectation, a tone of contempt”.

{197} See on this subject of the dropping of grammatical gender, Pott,
      Etymologische Forschungen, part 2, pp. 404, sqq.

IV

CHANGES IN THE MEANING OF ENGLISH WORDS

I propose, according to the plan sketched out in my first lecture, to take for my subject in
the present those changes which in the course of time have found place, or now are finding
place, in the meaning of many among our English words; so that, whether we are aware of it
or not, we employ them at this day in senses very different from those in which our forefathers
employed them of old. You observe that it is not obsolete words, words quite fallen out of
present use, which I propose to consider; but such, rather, as are still on the lips of men,
but with meanings more or less removed from those which once they possessed. My subject is
far more practical, has far more to do with your actual life, than if I had taken obsolete
words, and considered them. These last have an interest indeed, but it is an interest of an
antiquarian character. They constituted a part of the intellectual money with which our ancestors
carried on the business of their life; but now they are rather medals for the cabinets and
collections of the curious than current money for the needs and pleasures of all. Their wings
are clipped, so that they are “winged words” no more; the spark of thought or feeling, kindling
from mind to mind, no longer runs along them, as along the electric wires of the soul.

{Sidenote: Obsolete Words}

And then, besides this, there is little or no danger that any should be misled by them. A reader
lights for the first time on one of these obsolete English words, as ‘frampold’, or ‘garboil’,
or ‘brangle’{198}; he is at once conscious of his ignorance; he has recourse to a glossary,
of if he guesses from the context at the word’s signification, still his guess is as a guess
to him, and no more. But words that have changed their meaning have often a deceivableness
about them; a reader not once doubts but that he knows their intention, has no misgiving but
that they possess for him the same force which they possessed for their writer, and conveyed
to his contemporaries, when indeed it is quite otherwise. The old life has gone out of them
and a new life entered in.

Thus, for example, a reader of our day lights upon such a passage as the following (it is from
the Preface to Howell’s Lexicon, 1660): “Though the root of the English language be Dutch{199},
yet it may be said to have been inoculated afterwards on a French stock”. He may know that
the Dutch is a sister language or dialect to our own; but this that it is the mother or root
of it will certainly perplex him, and he will hardly know what to make of the assertion; perhaps
he ascribes it to an error in his author, who is thereby unduly lowered in his esteem. But
presently in the course of his reading he meets with the following statement, this time in
Fuller’s Holy War, being a history of the Crusades: “The French, Dutch, Italian, and English
were the four elemental nations, whereof this army [of the Crusaders] was compounded”. If the
student has sufficient historical knowledge to know that in the time of the Crusades there
were no Dutch in our use of the word, this statement would merely startle him; and probably
before he had finished the chapter, having his attention once aroused, he would perceive that
Fuller with the writers of his time used ‘Dutch’ for German; even as it was constantly so used
up to the end of the seventeenth century; and as the Americans use it to this present day;
what we call now a Dutchman being then a Hollander. But a young student might very possibly
want that amount of previous knowledge, which should cause him to receive this announcement
with misgiving and surprise; and thus he might carry away altogether a wrong impression, and
rise from a perusal of the book, persuaded that the Dutch, as we call them, played an important
part in the Crusades, while the Germans took little or no part in them at all.

{Sidenote: Miscreant}

And as it is here with an historic fact, so still more often will it happen with the subtler
changes which words have undergone. Out of this it will continually happen that they convey
now much more blame and condemnation, or convey now much less, than formerly they did; or of
a different kind; and a reader not aware of the altered value which they now possess, may be
in continual danger of misreading his author, of misunderstanding his intentions, while he
has no doubt whatever that he perfectly apprehends and takes it in. Thus when Shakespeare in
1 Henry VI makes the gallant York address Joan of Arc as a ‘miscreant’, how coarse a piece
of invective this sounds; how unlike what the chivalrous soldier would have uttered; or what
one might have supposed Shakespeare, even with his unworthy estimate of the holy warrior Maid,
would have put into his mouth. But a ‘miscreant’ in Shakespeare’s time had nothing of the meaning
which now it has. It was simply, in agreement with its etymology, a misbeliever, one who did
not believe rightly the Articles of the Catholic Faith. And I need not remind you that this
was the constant charge which the English brought against Joan,--namely, that she was a dealer
in hidden magical arts, a witch, and as such had fallen from the faith. On this plea they burnt
her, and it is this which York means when he calls her a ‘miscreant’, and not what we should
intend by the name.

In reading of poetry above all what beauties are often missed, what forces lost, through this
assumption that the present of a word is always equivalent to its past. How often the poet
is wronged in our estimation; that seeming to us now flat and pointless, which at once would
lose this character, did we know how to read into some word the emphasis which it once had,
but which now has departed from it. For example, Milton ascribes in Comus the “tinsel-slippered
feet” to Thetis, the goddess of the sea. How comparatively poor an epithet this ‘tinsel-slippered’
sounds for those who know of ‘tinsel’ only in its modern acceptation of mean and tawdry finery,
affecting a splendour which it does not really possess. But learn its earlier use by learning
its derivation, bring it back to the French ‘étincelle’, and the Latin ‘scintillula’; see in
it, as Milton and the writers of his time saw, ‘the sparkling’, and how exquisitely beautiful
a title does this become applied to a goddess of the sea; how vividly does it call up before
our mind’s eye the quick glitter and sparkle of the waves under the light of sun or moon{200}.
It is Homer’s ‘silver-footed’ (ἀργυρόπεζα), not servilely transferred, but reproduced and made
his own by the English poet, dealing as one great poet will do with another; who will not disdain
to borrow, but to what he borrows will add often a further grace of his own.

{Sidenote: ‘Influence’}

Or, again, do we keep in mind, or are we even aware, that whenever the word ‘influence’ occurs
in our English poetry, down to comparatively a modern date, there is always more or less remote
allusions to invisible illapses of power, skyey, planetary effects, supposed to be exercised
by the heavenly luminaries upon the lives of men{201}? How many a passage starts into new life
and beauty and fulness of allusion, when this is present with us; even Milton’s

          “store of ladies, whose bright eyes
    Rain influence”,

as spectators of the tournament, gain something, when we regard them--and using this language,
he intended we should--as the luminaries of this lower sphere, shedding by their propitious
presence strength and valour into the hearts of their knights.

{Sidenote: ‘Baffle’}

The word even in its present acceptation may yield, as here, a convenient and even a correct
sense; we may fall into no positive misapprehension about it; and still, through ignorance
of its past history and of the force which it once possessed, we may miss a great part of its
significance. We are not beside the meaning of our author, but we are short of it. Thus in
Beaumont and Fletcher’s King and no King, (Act iii. Sc. 2,) a cowardly braggart of a soldier
describes the treatment he experienced, when like Parolles he was at length found out, and
stripped of his lion’s skin:--“They hung me up by the heels and beat me with hazel sticks,
... that the whole kingdom took notice of me for a baffled, whipped fellow”. The word to which
I wish here to call your attention is ‘baffled’. Were you reading this passage, there would
probably be nothing here to cause you to pause; you would attach to ‘baffled’ a sense which
sorts very well with the context--“hung up by the heels and beaten, all his schemes of being
thought much of were baffled and defeated”. But “baffled” implies far more than this; it contains
allusion to a custom in the days of chivalry, according to which a perjured or recreant knight
was either in person, or more commonly in effigy, hung up by the heels, his scutcheon blotted,
his spear broken, and he himself or his effigy made the mark and subject of all kinds of indignities;
such a one being said to be ‘baffled’{202}. Twice in Spenser recreant knights are so dealt
with. I can only quote a portion of the shorter passage, in which this infamous punishment
is described:

    “And after all, for greater infamy
    He by the heels him hung upon a tree,
    And baffled so, that all which passéd by
    The picture of his punishment might see”{203}.

Probably when Beaumont and Fletcher wrote, men were not so remote from the days of chivalry,
or at any rate from the literature of chivalry, but that this custom was still fresh in their
minds. How much more to them than to us, so long as we are ignorant of the same, would those
words I just quoted have conveyed?

{Sidenote: ‘Religion’}

There are several places in the Authorized Version of Scripture where those who are not aware
of the changes which have taken place during the last two hundred and fifty years in our language,
can hardly fail of being to a certain extent misled as to the intention of our Translators;
or, if they are better acquainted with Greek than with early English, will be tempted to ascribe
to them, though unjustly, an inexact rendering of the original. “There”, exclaims one who wishes
to set up St. James against St. Paul, that so he may escape the necessity of obeying either,
“listen to what St. James says; there is nothing mystical in what he requires; instead of harping
on faith as a condition necessary to salvation, he makes all religion to consist in practical
deeds of kindness from one to another”. But let us pause for a moment. Did ‘religion’, when
our translation was made, mean godliness? did it mean the sum total of our duties towards God?
for, of course, no one would deny that deeds of charity are a necessary part of our Christian
duty, an evidence of the faith which is in us. There is abundant evidence to show that ‘religion’
did not mean this; that, like the Greek θρησκεία, for which it here stands, like the Latin
‘religio’, it meant the outward forms and embodiments in which the inward principle of piety
arrayed itself, the external service of God; and St. James is urging upon those to whom he
is writing something of this kind: “Instead of the ceremonial services of the Jews, which consisted
in divers washings and in other elements of this world, let our service, our θρησκεία, take
a nobler shape, let it consist in deeds of pity and of love”--and it was this which our Translators
intended, when they used ‘religion’ here and ‘religious’ in the verse preceding. How little
‘religion’ once meant godliness, how predominantly it was used for the outward service of God,
is plain from many passages in our Homilies, and from other contemporary literature.

Again, there are words in our Liturgy which I have no doubt are commonly misunderstood. The
mistake involves no serious error; yet still in our own language, and in words which we have
constantly in our mouths, and at most solemn times, it is certainly better to be right than
wrong. In the Litany we pray God that it would please Him, “to give and preserve to our use
the kindly fruits of the earth”. What meaning do we attach to this epithet, “the kindly fruits
of the earth”? Probably we understand by it those fruits in which the kindness of God or of
nature towards us finds its expression. This is no unworthy explanation, but still it is not
the right one. The “kindly fruits” are the “natural fruits”, those which the earth according
to its kind should naturally bring forth, which it is appointed to produce. To show you how
little ‘kindly’ meant once benignant, as it means now, I will instance an employment of it
from Sir Thomas More’s Life of Richard the Third. He tells us that Richard calculated by murdering
his two nephews in the Tower to make himself accounted “a kindly king”--not certainly a ‘kindly’
one in our present usage of the word{204}; but, having put them out of the way, that he should
then be lineal heir of the Crown, and should thus be reckoned as king by kind or natural descent;
and such was of old the constant use of the word.

{Sidenote: ‘Worship’}

A phrase in one of our occasional Services “with my body I thee worship”, has sometimes offended
those who are unacquainted with the early use of English words, and thus with the intention
of the actual framers of that Service. Clearly in our modern sense of ‘worship’, this language
would be unjustifiable. But ‘worship’ or ‘worthship’ meant ‘honour’ in our early English, and
‘to worship’ to honour, this meaning of ‘worship’ still very harmlessly surviving in the title
of “your worship”, addressed to the magistrate on the bench. So little was it restrained of
old to the honour which man is bound to pay to God, that it was employed by Wiclif to express
the honour which God will render to his faithful servants and friends. Thus our Lord’s declaration
“If any man serve Me, him will my Father honour”, in Wiclif’s translation reads thus, “If any
man serve Me, my Father shall worship him”. I do not say that there is not sufficient reason
to change the words, “with my body I thee worship”, if only there were any means of changing
anything which is now antiquated and out of date in our services or arrangements. I think it
would be very well if they were changed, liable as they are to misunderstanding and misconstruction
now; but still they did not mean at the first, and therefore do not now really mean, any more
than, “with my body I thee honour”, and so you may reply to any fault-finder here.

Take another example of a very easy misapprehension, although not now from Scripture or the
Prayer Book, Fuller, our Church historian, having occasion to speak of some famous divine that
was lately dead, exclaims, “Oh the painfulness of his preaching!” If we did not know the former
uses of ‘painfulness’, we might take this for an exclamation wrung out at the recollection
of the tediousness which he inflicted on his hearers. Far from it; the words are a record not
of the pain which he caused to others, but of the pains which he bestowed himself: and I am
persuaded, if we had more ‘painful’ preachers in the old sense of the word, that is, who took
pains themselves, we should have fewer ‘painful’ ones in the modern sense, who cause pain to
their hearers. So too Bishop Grosthead is recorded as “the painful writer of two hundred books”--not
meaning hereby that these books were painful in the reading, but that he was laborious and
painful in their composing.

Here is another easy misapprehension. Swift wrote a pamphlet, or, as he called it, a Letter
to the Lord Treasurer, with this title, “A proposal for correcting, improving, and ascertaining
the English Tongue”. Who that brought a knowledge of present English, and no more, to this
passage, would doubt that “ascertaining the English Tongue” meant arriving at a certain knowledge
of what it was? Swift, however, means something quite different from this. “To ascertain the
English tongue” is not with him to arrive at a subjective certainty in our own minds of what
that tongue is, but to give an objective certainty to that tongue itself, so that henceforth
it shall not alter nor change. For even Swift himself, with all his masculine sense, entertained
a dream of this kind, as is more fully declared in the work itself{205}.

{Sidenote: ‘Treacle’}

In other places unacquaintance with the changes in a word’s usage will not so much mislead
as leave you nearly or altogether at a loss in respect of the intention of an author whom you
may be reading. It is evident that he has a meaning, but what it is you are unable to divine,
even though all the words he employs are words in familiar employment to the present day. For
example, the poet Waller is congratulating Charles the Second on his return from exile, and
is describing the way in which all men, even those formerly most hostile to him, were now seeking
his favour, and he writes:

    “Offenders now, the chiefest, do begin
    To strive for grace, and expiate their sin:
    All winds blow fair that did the world embroil,
    Your vipers treacle yield, and scorpions oil”.

Many a reader before now has felt, as I cannot doubt, a moment’s perplexity at the now courtly
poet’s assertion that “vipers treacle yield”--who yet has been too indolent, or who has not
had the opportunity, to search out what his meaning might be. There is in fact allusion here
to a curious piece of legendary lore. ‘Treacle’, or ‘triacle’, as Chaucer wrote it, was originally
a Greek word, and wrapped up in itself the once popular belief (an anticipation, by the way,
of homœopathy), that a confection of the viper’s flesh was the most potent antidote against
the viper’s bite{206}. Waller goes back to this the word’s old meaning, familiar enough in
his time, for Milton speaks of “the sovran treacle of sound doctrine”{207}, while “Venice treacle”,
or “viper wine”, as it sometimes was called, was a common name for a supposed antidote against
all poisons; and he would imply that regicides themselves began to be loyal, vipers not now
yielding hurt any more, but rather healing for the old hurts which they themselves had inflicted.
To trace the word down to its present use, it may be observed that, designating first this
antidote, it then came to designate any antidote, then any medicinal confection or sweet syrup;
and lastly that particular syrup, namely, the sweet syrup of molasses, to which alone it is
now restricted.

{Sidenote: ‘Blackguard’}

I will draw on the writings of Fuller for one more example. In his Holy War, having enumerated
the rabble rout of fugitive debtors, runaway slaves, thieves, adulterers, murderers, of men
laden for one cause or another with heaviest censures of the Church, who swelled the ranks,
and helped to make up the army, of the Crusaders, he exclaimed, “A lamentable case that the
devil’s black guard should be God’s soldiers”! What does he mean, we may ask, by “the devil’s
black guard”? Nor is this a solitary mention of the “black guard”. On the contrary, the phrase
is of very frequent recurrence in the early dramatists and others down to the time of Dryden,
who gives as one of his stage directions in Don Sebastian, “Enter the captain of the rabble,
with the Black guard”. What is this “black guard”? Has it any connexion with a word of our
homeliest vernacular? We feel that probably it has so; yet at first sight the connexion is
not very apparent, nor indeed the exact force of the phrase. Let me trace its history. In old
times, the palaces of our kings and seats of our nobles were not so well and completely furnished
as at the present day: and thus it was customary, when a royal progress was made, or when the
great nobility exchanged one residence for another, that at such a removal all kitchen utensils,
pots and pans, and even coals, should be also carried with them where they went. Those who
accompanied and escorted these, the lowest, meanest, and dirtiest of the retainers, were called
‘the black guard’{208}; then any troop or company of ragamuffins; and lastly, when the origin
of the word was lost sight of, and it was forgotten that it properly implied a company, a rabble
rout, and not a single person, one would compliment another, not as belonging to, but as himself
being, the ‘blackguard’.

The examples which I have adduced are, I am persuaded, sufficient to prove that it is not a
useless and unprofitable study, nor yet one altogether without entertainment, to which I invite
you; that on the contrary any one who desires to read with accuracy, and thus with advantage
and pleasure, our earlier classics, who would avoid continual misapprehension in their perusal,
and would not often fall short of, and often go astray from, their meaning, must needs bestow
some attention on the altered significance of English words. And if this is so, we could not
more usefully employ what remains of this present lecture than in seeking to indicate those
changes which words most frequently undergo; and to trace as far as we can the causes, mental
and moral, at work in the minds of men to bring these changes about, with the good and evil
out of which they have sprung, and to which they bear witness.

For indeed these changes to which words in the progress of time are submitted are not changes
at random, but for the most part are obedient to certain laws, are capable of being distributed
into certain classes, being the outward transcripts and witnesses of mental and moral processes
inwardly going forward in those who bring them about. Many, it is true, will escape any classification
of ours, the changes which have taken place in their meaning being, or at least seeming to
us, the result of mere caprice; and not explicable by any principle which we can appeal to
as habitually at work in the mind. But, admitting all this, a majority will still remain which
are reducible to some law or other, and with these we will occupy ourselves now.

{Sidenote: ‘Duke’, ‘Corpse’, ‘Weed’}

And first, the meaning of a word oftentimes is gradually narrowed. It was once as a generic
name, embracing many as yet unnamed species within itself, which all went by its common designation.
By and bye it is found convenient that each of these should have its own more special sign
allotted to it{209}. It is here just as in some newly enclosed country, where a single household
will at first loosely occupy a whole district; while, as cultivation proceeds, this district
is gradually parcelled out among a dozen or twenty, and under more accurate culture employs
and sustains them all. Thus, for example, all food was once called ‘meat’; it is so in our
Bible, and ‘horse-meat’ for fodder is still no unusual phrase; yet ‘meat’ is now a name given
only to flesh. Any little book or writing was a ‘libel’ once; now only such a one as is scurrilous
and injurious. Any leader was a ‘duke’ (dux); thus “duke Hannibal” (Sir Thomas Eylot), “duke
Brennus” (Holland), “duke Theseus” (Shakespeare), “duke Amalek”, with other ‘dukes’ (Gen. xxxvi.).
Any journey, by land as much as by sea, was a ‘voyage’. ‘Fairy’ was not a name restricted,
as now, to the Gothic mythology; thus “the fairy Egeria” (Sir J. Harrington). A ‘corpse’ might
be quite as well living as dead{210}. ‘Weeds’ were whatever covered the earth or the person;
while now as respects the earth, those only are ‘weeds’ which are noxious, or at least self-sown;
as regards the person, we speak of no other ‘weeds’ but the widow’s{211}. In each of these
cases, the same contraction of meaning, the separating off and assigning to other words of
large portions of this, has found place. ‘To starve’ (the German ‘sterben’, and generally spelt
‘sterve’ up to the middle of the seventeenth century), meant once to die any manner of death;
thus Chaucer says, Christ “sterved upon the cross for our redemption”; it now is restricted
to the dying by cold or by hunger. Words not a few were once applied to both sexes alike, which
are now restricted to the female. It is so even with ‘girl’, which was once a young person
of either sex{212}; while other words in this list, such for instance as ‘hoyden’{213} (Milton,
prose), ‘shrew’ (Chaucer), ‘coquet’ (Phillips, New World of Words), ‘witch’ (Wiclif), ‘termagant’
(Bale), ‘scold’, ‘jade’, ‘slut’ (Gower), must be regarded in their present exclusive appropriation
to the female sex as evidences of men’s rudeness, and not of women’s deserts.

{Sidenote: Words used more accurately}

The necessities of an advancing civilization demand a greater precision and accuracy in the
use of words having to do with weight, measure, number, size. Almost all such words as ‘acre’,
‘furlong’, ‘yard’, ‘gallon’, ‘peck’, were once of a vague and unsettled use, and only at a
later day, and in obedience to the requirements of commerce and social life, exact measures
and designations. Thus every field was once an ‘acre’; and this remains so still with the German
‘acker’, and in our “God’s acre”, as a name for a churchyard{214}; it was not till about the
reign of Edward the First that ‘acre’ was commonly restricted to a determined measure and portion
of land. Here and there even now a glebeland will be called “the acre”; and this, even while
it contains not one but many of our measured acres. A ‘furlong’ was a ‘furrowlong’, or length
of a furrow{215}. Any pole was a ‘yard’, and this vaguer use survives in ‘sailyard’, ‘halyard’,
and in other sea-terms. Every pitcher was a ‘galon’ (Mark xiv. 13, Wiclif), while a ‘peck’
was no more than a ‘poke’ or bag{216}. And the same has no doubt taken place in all other languages.
I will only remind you how the Greek ‘drachm’ was at first a handful (δραχμή = ‘manipulus’,
from δράσσω, to grasp); its later word for ‘ten thousand’ (μύριοι) implied in Homer’s time
any great multitude; and with the accent on a different syllable always retained this meaning.

{Sidenote: Words used less accurately}

Opposite to this is a counter-process by which words of narrower intention gradually enlarge
the domain of their meaning, becoming capable of much wider application than any which once
they admitted. Instances in this kind are fewer than in that which we have just been considering.
The main stream and course of human thoughts and human discourse tends the other way, to discerning,
distinguishing, dividing; and then to the permanent fixing of the distinctions gained, by the
aid of designations which shall keep apart for ever in word that which has been once severed
and sundered in thought. Nor is it hard to perceive why this process should be the more frequent.
Men are first struck with the likenesses between those things which are presented to them,
with their points of resemblance; on the strength of which they bracket them under a common
term. Further acquaintance reveals their points of unlikeness, the real dissimilarities which
lurk under superficial resemblances, the need therefore of a different notation for objects
which are essentially different. It is comparatively much rarer to discover real likeness under
what at first appeared as unlikeness; and usually when a word moves forward, and from a specialty
indicates now a generality, it is not in obedience to any such discovery of the true inner
likeness of things,--the steps of successful generalizations being marked and secured in other
ways. But this widening of a word’s meaning is too often a result of those elements of disorganization
and decay which are at work in a language. Men forget a word’s history and etymology; its distinctive
features are obliterated for them, with all which attached it to some thought or fact which
by right was its own. Appropriated and restricted once to some striking specialty which it
vigorously set out, it can now be used in a wider, vaguer, more unsettled way. It can be employed
twenty times for once when it would have been possible formerly to employ it. Yet this is not
gain, but pure loss. It has lost its place in the disciplined army of words, and become one
of a loose and disorderly mob.

Let me instance the word ‘preposterous’. It is now no longer of any practical service at all
in the language, being merely an ungraceful and slipshod synonym for absurd. But restore and
confine it to its old use; let it designate that one peculiar branch of absurdity which it
designated once, namely the reversing of the true order of things, the putting of the last
first, and, by consequence, of the first last, and of what excellent service the word would
be capable. Thus it is ‘preposterous’, in the most accurate use of the word, to put the cart
before the horse, to expect wages before the work is done, to hang a man first and try him
afterwards; and in this strict and accurate sense the word was always used by our elder writers{217}.

In like manner ‘to prevaricate’ was never employed by good writers of the seventeenth century
without nearer or more remote allusion to the uses of the word in the Roman law courts, where
a ‘prævaricator’ (properly a straddler with distorted legs) did not mean generally and loosely,
as now with us, one who shuffles, quibbles, and evades; but one who plays false in a particular
manner; who, undertaking, or being by his office bound, to prosecute a charge, is in secret
collusion with the opposite party; and, betraying the cause which he affects to support, so
manages the accusation as to obtain not the condemnation, but the acquittal, of the accused;
a “feint pleader”, as, I think, in our old law language he would have been termed. How much
force would the keeping of this in mind add to many passages in our elder divines.

Or take ‘equivocal’, ‘equivocate’, ‘equivocation’. These words, which belonged at first to
logic, have slipped down into common use, and in so doing have lost all the precision of their
first employment. ‘Equivocation’ is now almost any such dealing in ambiguous words with the
intention of deceiving, as falls short of an actual lie; but according to its etymology and
in its primary use ‘equivocation’, this fruitful mother of so much error, is the calling by
the same name, of things essentially diverse, hiding intentionally or otherwise a real difference
under a verbal resemblance{218}. Nor let it be urged in defence of its present looser use,
that only so could it have served the needs of our ordinary conversation; on the contrary,
had it retained its first use, how serviceable an implement of thought would it have been in
detecting our own fallacies, or those of others; all which it can be now no longer.

{Sidenote: ‘Idea’}

What now is ‘idea’ for us? How infinite the fall of this word since the time when Milton sang
of the Creator contemplating his newly created world,

                  “how it showed,
    Answering his great idea”,

to its present use when this person “has an idea that the train has started”, and the other
“had no idea that the dinner would be so bad”. But this word ‘idea’ is perhaps the worst case
in the English language. There is perhaps no word in the whole compass of English, so seldom
used with any tolerable correctness; in none is the distance so immense between the frequent
sublimity of the word in its proper use, and the triviality of it in its slovenly and its popular.

This tendency in words to lose the sharp, rigidly defined outline of meaning which they once
possessed, to become of wide, vague, loose application instead of fixed, definite, and precise,
to mean almost anything, and so really to mean nothing, is among the most fatally effectual
which are at work for the final ruin of a language, and, I do not fear to add, for the demoralization
of those that speak it. It is one against which we shall all do well to watch; for there is
none of us who cannot do something in keeping words close to their own proper meaning, and
in resisting their encroachment on the domain of others.

The causes which bring this mischief about are not hard to trace. We all know that when a piece
of our silver money has long fulfilled its part, as “pale and common drudge ’tween man and
man”, whatever it had at first of sharper outline and livelier impress is in the end wholly
obliterated from it. So it is with words, above all with words of science and theology. These
getting into general use, and passing often from mouth to mouth, lose the “image and superscription”
which they had, before they descended from the school to the market-place, from the pulpit
to the street. Being now caught up by those who understand imperfectly and thus incorrectly
their true value, who will not be at the pains of understanding that, or who are incapable
of doing so, they are obliged to accommodate themselves to the lower sphere in which they circulate,
by laying aside much of the precision and accuracy and depth which once they had; they become
weaker, shallower, more indefinite; till in the end, as exponents of thought and feeling, they
cease to be of any service at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

{Sidenote: ‘Bombast’, ‘Garble’}

Sometimes a word does not merely narrow or extend its meaning, but altogether changes it; and
this it does in more ways than one. Thus a secondary figurative sense will quite put out of
use and extinguish the literal, until in the entire predominance of that it is altogether forgotten
that it ever possessed any other. I may instance ‘bombast’ as a word about which this forgetfulness
is nearly complete. What ‘bombast’ now means is familiar to us all, namely inflated words,
“full of sound and fury”, but “signifying nothing”. This, at present its sole meaning, was
once only the secondary and superinduced; ‘bombast’ being properly the cotton plant, and then
the cotton wadding with which garments were stuffed out and lined. You remember perhaps how
Prince Hal addresses Falstaff, “How now, my sweet creature of bombast”; using the word in its
literal sense; and another early poet has this line:

    “Thy body’s bolstered out with bombast and with bags”.

‘Bombast’ was then transferred in a vigorous image to the big words without strength or solidity
wherewith the discourses of some were stuffed out, and has now quite forgone any other meaning.
So too ‘to garble’ was once “to cleanse from dross and dirt, as grocers do their spices, to
pick or cull out”{219}. It is never used now in this its primary sense, and has indeed undergone
this further change, that while once ‘to garble’ was to sift for the purpose of selecting the
best, it is now to sift with a view of picking out the worst{220}. ‘Polite’ is another word
which in the figurative sense has quite extinguished the literal. We still speak of ‘polished’
surfaces; but not any more, with Cudworth, of “polite bodies, as looking glasses”. Neither
do we now ‘exonerate’ a ship (Burton); nor ‘stigmatize’, at least otherwise than figuratively,
a ‘malefactor’ (the same); nor ‘corroborate’ our health (Sir Thomas Elyot).

Again, a word will travel on by slow and regularly progressive courses of change, itself a
faithful index of changes going on in society and in the minds of men, till at length everything
is changed about it. The process of this it is often very curious to observe; capable as not
seldom it is of being watched step by step in its advances to the final consummation. There
may be said to be three leading phases which the word successively presents, three steps in
its history. At first it grows naturally out of its own root, is filled with its own natural
meaning. Presently the word allows another meaning, one superinduced on the former, and foreign
to its etymology, to share with the other in the possession of it, on the ground that where
the former exists, the latter commonly co-exists with it. At the third step, the newly introduced
meaning, not satisfied with its moiety, with dividing the possession of the word, has thrust
out the original and rightful possessor altogether, and remains in sole and exclusive possession.
The three successive stages may be represented by a, ab, b; in which series b, which was wanting
altogether at the first stage, and was only admitted as secondary at the second, does at the
third become primary and indeed alone.

{Sidenote: Gradual Change of Meaning}

We are not to suppose that in actual fact the transitions from one signification to another
are so strongly and distinctly marked, as I have found it convenient to mark them here. Indeed
it is hard to imagine anything more gradual, more subtle and imperceptible, than the process
of change. The manner in which the new meaning first insinuates itself into the old, and then
drives out the old, can only be compared to the process of petrifaction, as rightly understood--the
water not gradually turning what is put into it to stone, as we generally take the operation
to be; but successively displacing each several particle of that which is brought within its
power, and depositing a stony particle, in its stead, till, in the end, while all appears to
continue the same, all has in fact been thoroughly changed. It is precisely thus, by such slow,
gradual, and subtle advances that the new meaning filters through and pervades the word, little
by little displacing entirely that which it before possessed.

No word would illustrate this process better than that old example, familiar probably to us
all, of ‘villain’. The ‘villain’ is, first, the serf or peasant, ‘villanus’, because attached
to the ‘villa’ or farm. He is, secondly, the peasant who, it is further taken for granted,
will be churlish, selfish, dishonest, and generally of evil moral conditions, these having
come to be assumed as always belonging to him, and to be permanently associated with his name,
by those higher classes of society who in the main commanded the springs of language. At the
third step, nothing of the meaning which the etymology suggests, nothing of ‘villa’, survives
any longer; the peasant is wholly dismissed, and the evil moral conditions of him who is called
by this name alone remain; so that the name would now in this its final stage be applied as
freely to peer, if he deserved it, as to peasant. ‘Boor’ has had exactly the same history;
being first the cultivator of the soil; then secondly, the cultivator of the soil who, it is
assumed, will be coarse, rude, and unmannerly; and then thirdly, any one who is coarse, rude,
and unmannerly{221}. So too ‘pagan’; which is first villager, then heathen villager, and lastly
heathen. You may trace the same progress in ‘churl’, ‘clown’, ‘antic’, and in numerous other
words. The intrusive meaning might be likened in all these cases to the egg which the cuckoo
lays in the sparrow’s nest; the young cuckoo first sharing the nest with its rightful occupants,
but not resting till it has dislodged and ousted them altogether.

{Sidenote: ‘Gossip’}

I will illustrate by the aid of one word more this part of my subject. I called your attention
in my last lecture to the true character of several words and forms in use among our country
people, and claimed for them to be in many instances genuine English, though English now more
or less antiquated and overlived. ‘Gossip’ is a word in point. I have myself heard this name
given by our Hampshire peasantry to the sponsors in baptism, the godfathers and godmothers.
I do not say that it is a usual word; but it is occasionally employed, and well understood.
This is a perfectly correct employment of ‘gossip’, in fact its proper and original one, and
involves moreover a very curious record of past beliefs. ‘Gossip’, or ‘gossib’, as Chaucer
spelt it, is a compound word, made up of the name of ‘God’, and of an old Anglo-Saxon word,
‘sib’, still alive in Scotland, as all readers of Walter Scott will remember, and in some parts
of England, and which means, akin; they were said to be ‘sib’, who are related to one another.
But why, you may ask, was the name given to sponsors? Out of this reason;--in the middle ages
it was the prevailing belief (and the Romish Church still affirms it), that those who stood
as sponsors to the same child, besides contracting spiritual obligations on behalf of that
child, also contracted spiritual affinity one with another; they became sib, or akin, in God;
and thus ‘gossips’; hence ‘gossipred’, an old word, exactly analogous to ‘kindred’. Out of
this faith the Roman Catholic Church will not allow (unless indeed by dispensations procured
for money), those who have stood as sponsors to the same child, afterwards to contract marriage
with one another, affirming them too nearly related for this to be lawful.

Take ‘gossip’ however in its ordinary present use, as one addicted to idle tittle-tattle, and
it seems to bear no relation whatever to its etymology and first meaning. The same three steps,
however, which we have traced before will bring us to its present use. ‘Gossips’ are, first,
the sponsors, brought by the act of a common sponsorship into affinity and near familiarity
with one another; secondly, these sponsors, who being thus brought together, allow themselves
one with the other in familiar, and then in trivial and idle talk; thirdly, any who allow themselves
in this trivial and idle talk,--called in French ‘commérage’, from the fact that ‘commére’
has run through exactly the same stages as its English equivalent.

It is plain that words which designate not things and persons only, but these as they are contemplated
more or less in an ethical light, words which tinge with a moral sentiment what they designate,
are peculiarly exposed to change; are constantly liable to take a new colouring, or to lose
an old. The gauge and measure of praise or blame, honour or dishonour, admiration or abhorrence,
which they convey, is so purely a mental and subjective one, that it is most difficult to take
accurate note of its rise or of its fall, while yet there are causes continually at work leading
it to the one or the other. There are words not a few, but ethical words above all, which have
so imperceptibly drifted away from their former moorings, that although their position is now
very different from that which they once occupied, scarcely one in a hundred of casual readers,
whose attention has not been specially called to the subject, will have observed that they
have moved at all. Here too we observe some words conveying less of praise or blame than once,
and some more; while some have wholly shifted from the one to the other. Some were at one time
words of slight, almost of offence, which have altogether ceased to be so now. Still these
are rare by comparison with those which once were harmless, but now are harmless no more; which
once, it may be, were terms of honour, but which now imply a slight or even a scorn. It is
only too easy to perceive why these should exceed those in number.

{Sidenote: ‘Imp’, ‘Brat’}

Let us take an example or two. If any were to speak now of royal children as “royal imps”,
it would sound, and with our present use of the word would be, impertinent and unbecoming enough;
and yet ‘imp’ was once a name of dignity and honour, and not of slight or of undue familiarity.
Thus Spenser addresses the Muses in this language,

    “Ye sacred imps that on Parnasso dwell”;

and ‘imp’ was especially used of the scions of royal or illustrious houses. More than one epitaph,
still existing, of our ancient nobility might be quoted, beginning in such language as this,
“Here lies that noble imp”. Or what should we say of a poet who commenced a solemn poem in
this fashion,

    “Oh Israel, oh household of the Lord,
    Oh Abraham’s brats, oh brood of blessed seed”?

Could we conclude anything else but that he meant, by using low words on lofty occasions, to
turn sacred things into ridicule? Yet this was very far from the intention of Gascoigne, the
poet whose lines I have just quoted. “Abraham’s brats” was used by him in perfect good faith,
and without the slightest feeling that anything ludicrous or contemptuous adhered to the word
‘brat’, as indeed in his time there did not, any more than adheres to ‘brood’, which is another
form of the same word now{222}.

Call a person ‘pragmatical’, and you now imply not merely that he is busy, but over-busy, officious,
self-important, and pompous to boot. But it once meant nothing of the kind, and ‘pragmatical’
(like πραγματικός) was one engaged in affairs, being an honourable title, given to a man simply
and industriously accomplishing the business which properly concerned him{223}. So too to say
that a person ‘meddles’ or is a ‘meddler’ implies now that he interferes unduly in other men’s
matters, without a call mixing himself up with them. This was not insinuated in the earlier
uses of the word. On the contrary three of our earlier translations of the Bible have, “Meddle
with your own business” (1 Thess. iv. 11); and Barrow in one of his sermons draws at some length
the distinction between ‘meddling’ and “being meddlesome”, and only condemns the latter.

{Sidenote: ‘Proser’}

Or take again the words, ‘to prose’ or a ‘proser’. It cannot indeed be affirmed that they convey
any moral condemnation, yet they certainly convey no compliment now; and are almost among the
last which any one would desire should with justice be applied either to his talking or his
writing. For ‘to prose’, as we all now know too well, is to talk or write heavily and tediously,
without spirit and without animation; but once it was simply the antithesis of to versify,
and a ‘proser’ the antithesis of a versifier or a poet. It will follow that the most rapid
and liveliest writer who ever wrote, if he did not write in verse would have ‘prosed’ and been
a ‘proser’, in the language of our ancestors. Thus Drayton writes of his contemporary Nashe:

    “And surely Nashe, though he a proser were,
      A branch of laurel yet deserves to bear”;

that is, the ornament not of a ‘proser’, but of a poet. The tacit assumption that vigour, animation,
rapid movement, with all the precipitation of the spirit, belong to verse rather than to prose,
and are the exclusive possession of it, is that which must explain the changed uses of the word.

{Sidenote: ‘Knave’}

Still it is according to a word’s present signification that we must apply it now. It would
be no excuse, having applied an insulting epithet to any, if we should afterwards plead that,
tried by its etymology and primary usage, it had nothing offensive or insulting about it; although
indeed Swift assures us that in his time such a plea was made and was allowed. The lawyer may
have deserved his success for his ingenuity and his boldness; though, if Swift reports him
aright, not certainly on the ground of the strict accuracy either of his Anglo-Saxon or his Latin.

The moral sense and conviction of men is often at work upon their words, giving them new turns
in obedience to these convictions, of which their changed use will then remain a permanent
record. Let me illustrate this by the history of our word ‘sycophant’. You probably are acquainted
with the story which the Greek scholiasts invented by way of explaining a word of which they
knew nothing, namely that the ‘sycophant’ was a “manifester of figs”, one who detected others
in the act of exporting figs from Attica, an act forbidden, they asserted, by the Athenian
law; and accused them to the people. Be this explanation worth what it may, the word obtained
in Greek a more general sense; any accuser, and then any false accuser, was a ‘sycophant’;
and when the word was first adopted into the English language, it was in this meaning: thus
an old English poet speaks of “the railing route of sycophants”; and Holland: “The poor man
that hath nought to lose, is not afraid of the sycophant”. But it has not kept this meaning;
a ‘sycophant’ is now a fawning flatterer; not one who speaks ill of you behind your back; rather
one who speaks good of you before your face, but good which he does not in his heart believe.
Yet how true a moral instinct has presided over the changed signification of the word. The
calumniator and the flatterer, although they seem so opposed to one another, how closely united
they really are. They grow out of the same root. The same baseness of spirit which shall lead
one to speak evil of you behind your back, will lead him to fawn on you and flatter you before
your face; there is a profound sense in that Italian proverb, “Who flatters me before, spatters
me behind”.

{Sidenote: Weakening of Words}

But it is not the moral sense only of men which is thus at work, modifying their words; but
the immoral as well. If the good which men have and feel, penetrates into their speech, and
leaves its deposit there, so does also the evil. Thus we may trace a constant tendency--in
too many cases it has been a successful one--to empty words employed in the condemnation of
evil, of the depth and earnestness of the moral reprobation which they once conveyed. Men’s
too easy toleration of sin, the feebleness of their moral indignation against it, brings about
that the blame which words expressed once, has in some of them become much weaker now than
once, has from others vanished altogether. “To do a shrewd turn”, was once to do a wicked turn;
and Chaucer, using ‘shrewdness’ by which to translate the Latin ‘improbitas’, shows that it
meant wickedness for him; nay, two murderers he calls two ‘shrews’,--for there were, as already
noticed, male shrews once as well as female. But “a shrewd turn” now, while it implies a certain
amount of sharp dealing, yet implies nothing more; and ‘shrewdness’ is applied to men rather
in their praise than in their dispraise. And not ‘shrewd’ and ‘shrewdness’ only, but a multitude
of other words,--I will only instance ‘prank’ ‘flirt’, ‘luxury’, ‘luxurious’, ‘peevish’, ‘wayward’,
‘loiterer’, ‘uncivil’,--conveyed once a much more earnest moral disapproval than now they do.

But I must bring this lecture to a close. I have but opened to you paths, which you, if you
are so minded, can follow up for yourselves. We have learned lately to speak of men’s ‘antecedents’{225};
the phrase is newly come up; and it is common to say that if we would know what a man really
now is, we must know his ‘antecedents’, that is, what he has been in time past. This is quite
as true about words. If we would know what they now are, we must know what they have been;
we must know, if possible, the date and place of their birth, the successive stages of their
subsequent history, the company which they have kept, all the road which they have travelled,
and what has brought them to the point at which now we find them; we must know, in short, their
antecedents.

{Sidenote: Changes of Meaning}

And let me say, without attempting to bring back school into these lectures which are out of
school, that, seeking to do this, we might add an interest to our researches in the lexicon
and the dictionary which otherwise they could never have; that taking such words, for example,
as ἐκκλησία, or παλιγγενεσία, or εὐτραπελία, or σοφιστής, or σχολαστικός, in Greek; as ‘religio’,
or ‘sacramentum’, or ‘urbanitas’, or ‘superstitio’, in Latin; as ‘libertine’, or ‘casuistry’{226},
or ‘humanity’, or ‘humorous’, or ‘danger’, or ‘romance’, in English, and endeavouring to trace
the manner in which one meaning grew out of and superseded another, and how they arrived at
that use in which they have finally rested (if indeed before our English words there is not
a future still), we shall derive, I believe, amusement, I am sure, instruction; we shall feel
that we are really getting something, increasing the moral and intellectual stores of our minds;
furnishing ourselves with that which may hereafter be of service to ourselves, may be of service
to others--than which there can be no feeling more pleasurable, none more delightful. I shall
be glad and thankful, if you can feel as much in regard of that lecture, which I now bring
to its end{227}.

{FOOTNOTES}

{198} [‘Frampold’, peevish, perverse (Merry Wives of Windsor, 1598,
      ii, 2, 94) is supposed to be another form of ‘from-polled’, as if
      ‘wrong-headed’. ‘Garboil’, a tumult or hubbub, was originally
      garboyl, and came from old French garbouil (Italian
      garbuglio). ‘Brangle’, a brawl, stands for ‘brandle’ from Old
      Fr. brandeler, akin to ‘brandish’.]

{199} [‘Dutch’ i.e. Teutonic, Mid. High-German diutsch, old
      High-German diut-isk from diot, people, and so the people-ish
      or popular language the mother-tongue, founded on a primitive
      teuta, ‘people’. See Kluge s.v. Deutsch.]

{200} So in Herrick’s Electra:

          “More white than are the whitest creams,
          Or moonlight tinselling the streams”.

{201} [Hence also the epidemic of malefic power supposed to be
      air-borne, ‘influenza’.]

{202} See Holinshed’s Chronicles, vol. iii, pp. 827, 1218; Ann. 1513,
      1570.

{203} Fairy Queen, vi, 7, 27; cf. v. 3, 37.

{204} [The two words are intimately related, ‘king’, contracted for
      kining (Anglo-Saxon cyn-ing), ‘son of the kin’ or ‘tribe’, one
      of the people, cognate with cynde, true-born, native, ‘kind’,
      and cynd, nature ‘kind’, whence ‘kindly’, natural.]

{205} See Sir W. Scott’s edition of Swift’s Works, vol. ix, p. 139.

{206} θηριακή, from θηρίον, a designation given to the viper, see Acts
      xxviii, 4. ‘Theriac’ is only the more rigid form of the same word,
      the scholarly, as distinguished from the popular, adoption of it.
      Augustine (Con. duas Epp. Pelag. iii, 7): Sicut fieri consuevit
      antidotum etiam de serpentibus contra venena serpentum.

{207} And Chaucer, more solemnly still:

          “Christ, which that is to every harm triacle”.

      The antidotal character of treacle comes out yet more in these
      lines of Lydgate:

              “There is no venom so parlious in sharpnes,
          As whan it hath of treacle a likenes”.

{208} “A slave that within these twenty years rode with the black
      guard in the Duke’s carriage, ’mongst spits and dripping pans”.
      (Webster’s White Devil.) [First ed. 1612. “The Black Guard of
      the King’s Kitchen” is mentioned in a State Paper of 1535
      (N.E.D.).]

{209} Génin (Lexique de la Langue de Molière, p. 367) says well: “En
      augmentant le nombre des mots, il a fallu restreindre leur
      signification, et faire aux nouveaux un apanage aux dépens des
      anciens”.

{210} [Accordingly there is nothing tautological in the “dead corpses”
      of 2 Kings xix, 35, in the A.V.]

{211} [‘Weed’, vegetable growth, Anglo-Saxon weód, is here confounded
      with a perfectly distinct word ‘weed’, clothing, which is the
      Anglo-Saxon waéd, a garment.]

{212} And no less so in French with ‘dame’, by which form not ‘domina’
      only, but ‘dominus’, was represented. Thus in early French poetry,
      “Dame Dieu” for “Dominus Deus” continually occurs. We have
      here the key to the French exclamation, or oath, as we now
      perceive it to be, ‘Dame’! of which the dictionaries give no
      account. See Génin’s Variations du Langage Français, p. 347.

{213} [‘Hoyden’ seems to be derived from the old Dutch heyden, a
      heathen, then a clownish, boorish fellow.]

{214} [This “ancient Saxon phrase”, as Longfellow calls it, has not been
      found in any old English writer, but has been adopted from the
      Modern German. Neither is it known in the dialects, E.D.D.]

{215} “A furlong, quasi furrowlong, being so much as a team in
      England plougheth going forward, before they return back again”.
      (Fuller, Pisgah Sight of Palestine, p. 42.) [‘Furlong’ in St.
      Luke xxiv, 13, already occurs in the Anglo-Saxon version of that
      passage as furlanga.]

{216} [Recent etymologists cannot see any connexion between ‘peck’ and
      ‘poke’.]

{217} [e. g. “One said thus preposterously: ‘when we had climbed the
      clifs and were a shore’” (Puttenham, Arte of Eng. Poesie, 1589,
      p. 181, ed. Arber). “It is a preposterous order to teach first
      and to learn after” (Preface to Bible, 1611). “Place not the
      coming of the wise men, preposterously, before the appearance of
      the star” (Abp. Secker, Sermons, iii, 85, ed. 1825).]

{218} Thus Barrow: “Which [courage and constancy] he that wanteth is no
      other than equivocally a gentleman, as an image or a carcass is
      a man”.

{219} Phillips, New World of Words, 1706. [‘Garble’ comes through old
      French garbeler, grabeler (Italian garbellare) from Latin
      cribellare, to sift, and that from cribellum, a sieve,
      diminutive of cribrum.]

{220} “But his [Gideon’s] army must be garbled, as too great for God
      to give victory thereby; all the fearful return home by
      proclamation” (Fuller, Pisgah Sight of Palestine, b. ii, c. 8).

{221} [Compare the transitions of meaning in French manant = (1) a
      dweller (where he was born--from manoir to dwell), the
      inhabitant of a homestead, (2) a countryman, (3) a clown or boor,
      a coarse fellow.]

{222} [These words lie totally apart. ‘Brat’, an infant, seems a
      figurative use of ‘brat’, a rag or pinafore, just as ‘bantling’
      comes from ‘band’, a swathe.]

{223} “We cannot always be contemplative, or pragmatical abroad: but
      have need of some delightful intermissions, wherein the enlarged
      soul may leave off awhile her severe schooling”. (Milton,
      Tetrachordon.)

{224} [Anglo-Saxon cnafa, or cnapa, a boy.]

{225} [Mr. Fitzedward Hall in 1873 says ‘antecedents’ is “not yet a
      generation old” (Mod. English, 303). Landor in 1853 says “the
      French have lately taught (it to) us” (Last Fruit of an Old
      Tree, 176). De Quincey, in 1854 calls it “modern slang” (Works
      xiv, 449); and the earliest quotation, 1841, given in the N.E.D.,
      introduces it as “what the French call their antecedents”.]

{226} See Whewell, History of Moral Philosophy in England, pp.
      xxvii.-xxxii.

{227} For a fuller treatment of the subject of this lecture, see my
      Select Glossary of English Words used formerly in senses
      different from their present, 2nd ed. London, 1859.

V

CHANGES IN THE SPELLING OF ENGLISH WORDS

When I announce to you that the subject of my lecture to-day will be English orthography, or
the spelling of the words in our native language, with the alterations which this has undergone,
you may perhaps think with yourselves that a weightier, or, if not a weightier, at all events
a more interesting subject might have occupied this our concluding lecture. I cannot admit
it to be wanting either in importance or in interest. Unimportant it certainly is not, but
might well engage, as it often has engaged, the attention of those with far higher acquirements
than any which I possess. Uninteresting it may be, by faults in the manner of treating it;
but I am sure it ought as little to be this; and would never prove so in competent hands{228}.
Let us then address ourselves to this matter, not without good hope that it may yield us both
profit and pleasure.

I know not who it was that said, “The invention of printing was very well; but, as compared
to the invention of writing, it was no such great matter after all”. Whoever it was who made
this observation, it is clear that for him use and familiarity had not obliterated the wonder
which there is in that, whereat we probably have long ceased to wonder at all--the power, namely,
of representing sounds by written signs, of reproducing for the eye that which existed at first
only for the ear: nor was the estimate which he formed of the relative value of these two inventions
other than a just one. Writing indeed stands more nearly on a level with speaking, and deserves
rather to be compared with it, than with printing; which, with all its utility, is yet of altogether
another and inferior type of greatness: or, if this is too much to claim for writing, it may
at any rate be affirmed to stand midway between the other two, and to be as much superior to
the one as it is inferior to the other.

The intention of the written word, that which presides at its first formation, the end whereunto
it is a mean, is by aid of symbols agreed on beforehand, to represent to the eye with as much
accuracy as possible the spoken word.

{Sidenote: Imperfection of Writing}

It never fulfils this intention completely, and by degrees more and more imperfectly. Short
as man’s spoken word often falls of his thought, his written word falls often as short of his
spoken. Several causes contribute to this. In the first place, the marks of imperfection and
infirmity cleave to writing, as to every other invention of man. All alphabets have been left
incomplete. They have superfluous letters, letters, that is, which they do not want, because
other letters already represent the sound which they represent; they have dubious letters,
letters, that is, which say nothing certain about the sounds they stand for, because more than
one sound is represented by them--our ‘c’ for instance, which sometimes has the sound of ‘s’,
as in ‘city’, sometimes of ‘k’, as in ‘cat’; they are deficient in letters, that is, the language
has elementary sounds which have no corresponding letters appropriated to them, and can only
be represented by combinations of letters. All alphabets, I believe, have some of these faults,
not a few of them have all, and more. This then is one reason of the imperfect reproduction
of the spoken word by the written. But another is, that the human voice is so wonderfully fine
and flexible an organ, is able to mark such subtle and delicate distinctions of sound, so infinitely
to modify and vary these sounds, that were an alphabet complete as human art could make it,
did it possess eight and forty instead of four and twenty letters, there would still remain
a multitude of sounds which it could only approximately give back{229}.

{Sidenote: Alphabets Inadequate}

But there is a further cause for the divergence which comes gradually to find place between
men’s spoken and their written words. What men do often, they will seek to do with the least
possible trouble. There is nothing which they do oftener than repeat words; they will seek
here then to save themselves pains; they will contract two or more syllables into one; (‘toto
opere’ will become ‘topper’; ‘vuestra merced’, ‘usted’; and ‘topside the other way’, ‘topsy-turvey’{230});
they will slur over, and thus after a while cease to pronounce, certain letters; for hard letters
they will substitute soft; for those which require a certain effort to pronounce, they will
substitute those which require little or none. Under the operation of these causes a gulf between
the written and spoken word will not merely exist; but it will have the tendency to grow ever
wider and wider. This tendency indeed will be partially counterworked by approximations which
from time to time will by silent consent be made of the written word to the spoken; here and
there a letter dropped in speech will be dropped also in writing, as the ‘s’ in so many French
words, where its absence is marked by a circumflex; a new shape, contracted or briefer, which
a word has taken on the lips of men, will find its representation in their writing; as ‘chirurgeon’
will not merely be pronounced, but also spelt, ‘surgeon’, and ‘synodsman’ ‘sidesman’. Still
for all this, and despite of these partial readjustments of the relations between the two,
the anomalies will be infinite; there will be a multitude of written letters which have ceased
to be sounded letters; a multitude of words will exist in one shape upon our lips, and in quite
another in our books.

It is inevitable that the question should arise--Shall these anomalies be meddled with? shall
it be attempted to remove them, and bring writing and speech into harmony and consent--a harmony
and consent which never indeed in actual fact at any period of the language existed, but which
yet may be regarded as the object of written speech, as the idea which, however imperfectly
realized, has, in the reduction of spoken sounds to written, floated before the minds of men?
If the attempt is to be made, it is clear that it can only be made in one way. The alternative
is not open, whether Mahomet shall go to the mountain, or the mountain to Mahomet. The spoken
word is the mountain; it will not stir; it will resist all interference. It feels its own superior
rights, that it existed the first, that it is, so to say, the elder brother; and it will never
be induced to change itself for the purpose of conforming and complying with the written word.
Men will not be persuaded to pronounce ‘would’ and ‘debt’, because they write ‘would’ and ‘debt’
severally with an ‘l’ and with a ‘b’: but what if they could be induced to write ‘woud’ and
‘det’, because they pronounce so; and to deal in like manner with all other words, in which
there exists at present a discrepancy between the word as it is spoken, and the word as it
is written?

{Sidenote: Phonetic Systems}

Here we have the explanation of that which in the history of almost all literatures has repeated
itself more than once, namely, the endeavour to introduce phonetic writing. It has certain
plausibilities to rest on; it has its appeal to the unquestionable fact that the written word
was intended to picture to the eye what the spoken word sounded in the ear. At the same time
I believe that it would be impossible to introduce it; and, even if it were possible, that
it would be most undesirable, and this for two reasons; the first being that the losses consequent
upon its introduction, would far outweigh the gains, even supposing those gains as great as
the advocates of the scheme promise; the second, that these promised gains would themselves
be only very partially realized, or not at all.

{Sidenote: Alphabets Imperfect}

In the first place, I believe it to be impossible. It is clear that such a scheme must begin
with the reconstruction of the alphabet. The first thing that the phonographers have perceived
is the necessity for the creation of a vast number of new signs, the poverty of all existing
alphabets, at any rate of our own, not yielding a several sign for all the several sounds in
the language. Our English phonographers have therefore had to invent ten of these new signs
or letters, which are henceforth to take their place with our a, b, c, and to enjoy equal rights
with them. Rejecting two (q, x), and adding ten, they have raised their alphabet from twenty-six
letters to thirty-four. But to procure the reception of such a reconstructed alphabet is simply
an impossibility, as much an impossibility as would be the reconstitution of the structure
of the language in any points where it was manifestly deficient or illogical. Sciolists or
scholars may sit down in their studies, and devise these new letters, and prove that we need
them, and that the introduction of them would be a great gain, and a manifest improvement;
and this may be all very true; but if they think they can induce a people to adopt them, they
know little of the ways in which its alphabet is entwined with the whole innermost life of
a people. One may freely own that all present alphabets are redundant here, are deficient there;
our English perhaps is as greatly at fault as any, and with that we have chiefly to do. Unquestionably
it has more letters than one to express one and the same sound; it has only one letter to express
two or three sounds; it has sounds which are only capable of being expressed at all by awkward
and roundabout expedients. Yet at the same time we must accept the fact, as we accept any other
which it is out of our power to change--with regret, indeed, but with a perfect acquiescence:
as one accepts the fact that Ireland is not some thirty or forty miles nearer to England--that
it is so difficult to get round Cape Horn--that the climate of Africa is so fatal to European
life. A people will no more quit their alphabet than they will quit their language; they will
no more consent to modify the one ab extra than the other. Cæsar avowed that with all his power
he could not introduce a new word, and certainly Claudius could not introduce a new letter.
Centuries may sanction the bringing in of a new one, or the dropping of an old. But to imagine
that it is possible to suddenly introduce a group of ten new letters, as these reformers propose--they
might just as feasibly propose that the English language should form its comparatives and superlatives
on some entirely new scheme, say in Greek fashion, by the terminations ‘oteros’ and ‘otatos’;
or that we should agree to set up a dual; or that our substantives should return to our Anglo-Saxon
declensions. Any one of these or like proposals would not betray a whit more ignorance of the
eternal laws which regulate human language, and of the limits within which deliberate action
upon it is possible, than does this of increasing our alphabet by ten entirely novel signs.

But grant it possible, grant our six and twenty letters to have so little sacredness in them
that Englishmen would endure a crowd of upstart interlopers to mix themselves on an equal footing
with them, still this could only be from a sense of the greatness of the advantage to be derived
from this introduction. Now the vast advantage claimed by the advocates of the system is, that
it would facilitate the learning to read, and wholly save the labour of learning to spell,
which “on the present plan occupies”, as they assure us, “at the very lowest calculation from
three to five years”. Spelling, it is said, would no longer need to be learned at all; since
whoever knew the sound, would necessarily know also the spelling, this being in all cases in
perfect conformity with that. The anticipation of this gain rests upon two assumptions which
are tacitly taken for granted, but both of them erroneous.

The first of these assumptions is, that all men pronounce all words alike, so that whenever
they come to spell a word, they will exactly agree as to what the outline of its sound is.
Now we are sure men will not do this from the fact that, before there was any fixed and settled
orthography in our language, when therefore everybody was more or less a phonographer, seeking
to write down the word as it sounded to him, (for he had no other law to guide him,) the variations
of spelling were infinite. Take for instance the word ‘sudden’; which does not seem to promise
any great scope for variety. I have myself met with this word spelt in the following fifteen
ways among our early writers: ‘sodain’, ‘sodaine’, ‘sodan’, ‘sodayne’, ‘sodden’, ‘sodein’,
‘sodeine’, ‘soden’, ‘sodeyn’, ‘suddain’, ‘suddaine’, ‘suddein’, ‘suddeine’, ‘sudden’, ‘sudeyn’.
Again, in how many ways was Raleigh’s name spelt, or Shakespeare’s? The same is evident from
the spelling of uneducated persons in our own day. They have no other rule but the sound to
guide them. How is it that they do not all spell alike; erroneously, it may be, as having only
the sound for their guide, but still falling all into exactly the same errors? What is the
actual fact? They not merely spell wrong, which might be laid to the charge of our perverse
system of spelling, but with an inexhaustible diversity of error, and that too in the case
of simplest words. Thus the little town of Woburn would seem to give small room for caprice
in spelling, while yet the postmaster there has made, from the superscription of letters that
have passed through his hands, a collection of two hundred and forty-four varieties of ways
in which the place has been spelt{231}. It may be replied that these were all or nearly all
from the letters of the ignorant and uneducated. Exactly so;--but it is for their sakes, and
to place them on a level with the educated, or rather to accelerate their education by the
omission of a useless yet troublesome discipline, that the change is proposed. I wish to show
you that after the change they would be just as much, or almost as much, at a loss in their
spelling as now.

{Sidenote: Pronouncing Dictionaries}

And another reason which would make it quite as necessary then to learn orthography as now,
is the following. Pronunciation, as I have already noticed, is far too fine and subtle a thing
to be more than approximated to, and indicated in the written letter. In a multitude of cases
the difficulties which pronunciation presented would be sought to be overcome in different
ways, and thus different spelling, would arise; or if not so, one would have to be arbitrarily
selected, and would have need to be learned, just as much as the spelling of a word now has
need to be learned. I will only ask you, in proof of this which I affirm, to turn to any Pronouncing
Dictionary. That greatest of all absurdities, a Pronouncing Dictionary, may be of some service
to you in this matter; it will certainly be of none in any other. When you mark the elaborate
and yet ineffectual artifices by which it toils after the finer distinctions of articulation,
seeks to reproduce in letters what exists, and can only exist, as the spoken tradition of pronunciation,
acquired from lip to lip by the organ of the ear, capable of being learned, but incapable of
being taught; or when you compare two of these dictionaries with one another, and mark the
entirely different schemes and combinations of letters which they employ for representing the
same sound to the eye; you will then perceive how idle the attempt to make the written in language
commensurate with the sounded; you will own that not merely out of human caprice, ignorance,
or indolence, the former falls short of and differs from the later; but that this lies in the
necessity of things, in the fact that man’s voice can effect so much more than ever his letter
can{232}. You will then perceive that there would be as much, or nearly as much, of the arbitrary
in spelling which calls itself phonetic as in our present, that spelling would have to be learned
just as really then as now.

{Sidenote: Losses of Phonetic Spelling}

The scheme would not then fulfil its promises. Its vaunted gains, when we come to look closely
at them, disappear. And now for its losses. There are in every language a vast number of words,
which the ear does not distinguish from one another, but which are at once distinguishable
to the eye by the spelling. I will only instance a few which are the same parts of speech;
thus ‘sun’ and ‘son’; ‘virge’ (‘virga’, now obsolete) and ‘verge’; ‘reign’, ‘rain’, and ‘rein’;
‘hair’ and ‘hare’; ‘plate’ and ‘plait’; ‘moat’ and ‘mote’; ‘pear’ and ‘pair’; ‘pain’ and ‘pane’;
‘raise’ and ‘raze’; ‘air’ and ‘heir’; ‘ark’ and ‘arc’; ‘mite’ and ‘might’; ‘pour’ and ‘pore’;
‘veil’ and ‘vale’; ‘knight’ and ‘night’; ‘knave’ and ‘nave’; ‘pier’ and ‘peer’; ‘rite’ and
‘right’; ‘site’ and ‘sight’; ‘aisle’ and ‘isle’; ‘concent’ and ‘consent’; ‘signet’ and ‘cygnet’.
Now, of course, it is a real disadvantage, and may be the cause of serious confusion, that
there should be words in spoken languages of entirely different origin and meaning which yet
cannot in sound be differenced from one another. The phonographers simply propose to extend
this disadvantage already cleaving to our spoken languages, to the written languages as well.
It is fault enough in the French language, that ‘mère’ a mother, ‘mer’ the sea, ‘maire’ a mayor
of a town, should have no perceptible difference between them in the spoken tongue; or again
that in some there should be nothing to distinguish ‘sans’, ‘sang’, ‘sent’, ‘sens’, ‘s’en’,
‘cent’; nor yet between ‘ver’, ‘vert’, ‘verre’ and ‘vers’. Surely it is not very wise to propose
gratuitously to extend the same fault to the written languages as well.

This loss in so many instances of the power to discriminate between words, which however liable
to confusion now in our spoken language, are liable to none in our written, would be serious
enough; but far more serious than this would be the loss which would constantly ensue, of all
which visibly connects a word with the past, which tells its history, and indicates the quarter
from which it has been derived. In how many English words a letter silent to the ear, is yet
most eloquent to the eye--the g for instance in ‘deign’, ‘feign’, ‘reign’, ‘impugn’, telling
as it does of ‘dignor’, ‘fingo’, ‘regno’, ‘impugno’; even as the b in ‘debt’, ‘doubt’, is not
idle, but tells of ‘debitum’ and ‘dubium’{233}.

{Sidenote: Pronunciation Alters}

At present it is the written word which is in all languages their conservative element. In
it is the abiding witness against the mutilations or other capricious changes in their shape
which affectation, folly, ignorance, and half-knowledge would introduce. It is not indeed always
able to hinder the final adoption of these corrupter forms, but does not fail to oppose to
them a constant, and very often a successful, resistance. With the adoption of phonetic spelling,
this witness would exist no longer; whatever was spoken would have also to be written, let
it be never so barbarous, never so great a departure from the true form of the word. Nor is
it merely probable that such a barbarizing process, such an adopting and sanctioning of a vulgarism,
might take place, but among phonographers it already has taken place. We all probably are aware
that there is a vulgar pronunciation of the word ‘Europe’, as though it were ‘Eurup’. Now it
is quite possible that numerically more persons in England may pronounce the word in this manner
than in the right; and therefore the phonographers are only true to their principles when they
spell it in the fashion which they do, ‘Eurup’, or indeed omitting the E at the beginning,
‘Urup’{234} with thus the life of the first syllable assailed no less than that of the second.
What are the consequences? First its relations with the old mythology are at once and entirely
broken off; secondly, its most probable etymology from two Greek words, signifying ‘broad’
and ‘face’, Europe being so called from the Broad line or face of coast which our continent
presented to the Asiatic Greek, is totally obscured. But so far from the spelling servilely
following the pronunciation, I should be bold to affirm that if ninety-nine out of every hundred
persons in England chose to call Europe ‘Urup’, this would be a vulgarism still, against which
the written word ought to maintain its protest, not sinking down to their level, but rather
seeking to elevate them to its own{235}.

{Sidenote: Changes of Pronunciation}

And if there is much in orthography which is unsettled now, how much more would be unsettled
then. Inasmuch as the pronunciation of words is continually altering, their spelling would
of course have continually to alter too. For the fact that pronunciation is undergoing constant
changes, although changes for the most part unmarked, or marked only by a few, would be abundantly
easy to prove. Take a Pronouncing Dictionary of fifty or a hundred years ago; turn to almost
any page, and you will observe schemes of pronunciation there recommended, which are now merely
vulgarisms, or which have been dropped altogether. We gather from a discussion in Boswell’s
Life of Johnson{236}, that in his time ‘great’ was by some of the best speakers of the language
pronounced ‘greet’, not ‘grate’: Pope usually rhymes it with ‘cheat’, ‘complete’, and the like;
thus in the Dunciad:

    “Here swells the shelf with Ogilby the great,
    There, stamped with arms, Newcastle shines complete”.

Spenser’s constant use of the word a century and a half earlier, leaves no doubt that such
was the invariable pronunciation of his time{237}. Again, Pope rhymes ‘obliged’ with ‘beseiged’;
and it has only ceased to be ‘obleeged’ almost in our own time. Who now drinks a cup of ‘tay’?
yet there is abundant evidence that this was the fashionable pronunciation in the first half
of the last century; the word, that is, was still regarded as French: Locke writes it ‘thé’;
and in Pope’s time, though no longer written, it was still pronounced so.

So too a pronunciation which still survives, though scarcely among well-educated persons, I
mean ‘Room’ for ‘Rome’, must have been in Shakespeare’s time the predominant one, else there
would have been no point in that play on words where in Julius Cæsar Cassius, complaining that
in all Rome there was not room for a single man, exclaims,

    “Now is it Rome indeed, and room enough”.

Samuel Rogers too assures us that in his youth “everybody said ‘Lonnon’{238} not ‘London’;
that Fox said ‘Lonnon’ to the last”.

The following quotation from Swift will prove to you that I have been only employing here an
argument, which he employed long ago against the phonographers of his time. He exposes thus
the futility of their scheme{239}: “Another cause which has contributed not a little to the
maiming of our language, is a foolish opinion advanced of late years that we ought to spell
exactly as we speak: which, besides the obvious inconvenience of utterly destroying our etymology,
would be a thing we should never see an end of. Not only the several towns and counties of
England have a different way of pronouncing, but even here in London they clip their words
after one manner about the court, another in the city, and a third in the suburbs; and in a
few years, it is probable, will all differ from themselves, as fancy or fashion shall direct;
all which, reduced to writing, would entirely confound orthography”.

This much I have thought good to say in respect of that entire revolution in English orthography,
which some rash innovators have proposed. Let me, dismissing them and their innovations, call
your attention now to those changes in spelling which are constantly going forward, at some
periods more rapidly than at others, but which never wholly cease out of a language; while
at the same time I endeavour to trace, where this is possible, the motives and inducements
which bring them about. It is a subject which none can neglect, who desire to obtain even a
tolerably accurate acquaintance with their native tongue. Some principles have been laid down
in the course of what has been said already, that may help us to judge whether the changes
which have found place in our own have been for better or for worse. We shall find, if I am
not mistaken, of both kinds.

{Sidenote: ‘Grogram’}

There are alterations in spelling which are for the worse. Thus an altered spelling will sometimes
obscure the origin of a word, concealing it from those who, but for this, would at once have
known whence and what it was, and would have found both pleasure and profit in this knowledge.
I need not say that in all those cases where the earlier spelling revealed the secret of the
word, told its history, which the latter defaces or conceals, the change has been injurious,
and is to be regretted; while, at the same time, where it has thoroughly established itself,
there is nothing to do but to acquiesce in it: the attempt to undo it would be absurd. Thus,
when ‘grocer’ was spelt ‘grosser’, it was comparatively easy to see that he first had his name,
because he sold his wares not by retail, but in the gross. ‘Coxcomb’ tells us nothing now;
but it did when spelt, as it used to be, ‘cockscomb’, the comb of a cock being then an ensign
or token which the fool was accustomed to wear. In ‘grogram’ we are entirely to seek for the
derivation; but in ‘grogran’ or ‘grograin’, as earlier it was spelt, one could scarcely miss
‘grosgrain’, the stuff of a coarse grain or woof. How many now understand ‘woodbine’? but who
could have helped understanding ‘woodbind’ (Ben Jonson)? What a mischievous alteration in spelling
is ‘divest’ instead of ‘devest’{240}. This change is so recent that I am tempted to ask whether
it would not here be possible to return to the only intelligible spelling of this word.

{Sidenote: ‘Pigmy’}

‘Pigmy’ used formerly to be spelt ‘pygmy’, and so long as it was so, no Greek scholar could
see the word, but at once he knew that by it were indicated manikins whose measure in height
was no greater than that of a man’s arm from the elbow to the closed fist{241}. Now he may
know this in other ways; but the word itself, so long as he assumes it to be rightly spelt,
tells him nothing. Or again, the old spelling, ‘diamant’, was preferable to the modern ‘diamond’.
It was preferable, because it told more of the quarter whence the word had reached us. ‘Diamant’
and ‘adamant’ are in fact only two different adoptions on the part of the English tongue, of
one and the same Greek, which afterwards became a Latin word. The primary meaning of ‘adamant’
is, as you know, the indomitable, and it was a name given at first to steel as the hardest
of metals; but afterwards transferred{242} to the most precious among all the precious stones,
as that which in power of resistance surpassed everything besides.

{Sidenote: ‘Cozen’, ‘Bless’}

Neither are new spellings to be commended, which obliterate or obscure the relationship of
a word with others to which it is really allied; separating from one another, for those not
thoroughly acquainted with the subject, words of the same family. Thus when ‘jaw’ was spelt
‘chaw’, no ne could miss its connexions with the verb ‘to chew’{243}. Now probably ninety-nine
out of a hundred who use both words, are entirely unaware of any relationship between them.
It is the same with ‘cousin’ (consanguineus), and ‘to cozen’ or to deceive. I do not propose
to determine which of these words should conform itself to the spelling of the other. There
was great irregularity in the spelling of both from the first; yet for all this, it was then
better than now, when a permanent distinction has established itself between them, keeping
out of sight that ‘to cozen’ is in all likelihood to deceive under show of kindred and affinity;
which if it be so, Shakespeare’s words,

    “Cousins indeed, and by their uncle cozened
    Of comfort”{244},

will be found to contain not a pun, but an etymology{245}. The real relation between ‘bliss’
and ‘to bless’ is in like manner at present obscured{246}.

The omission of a letter, or the addition of a letter, may each effectually do its work in
keeping out of sight the true character and origin of a word. Thus the omission of a letter.
When the first syllable of ‘bran-new’ was spelt ‘brand’ with a final ‘d’, ‘brand-new’, how
vigorous an image did the word contain. The ‘brand’ is the fire, and ‘brand-new’ equivalent
to ‘fire-new’ (Shakespeare), is that which is fresh and bright, as being newly come from the
forge and fire. As now spelt, ‘bran-new’ conveys to us no image at all. Again, you have the
word ‘scrip’--as a ‘scrip’ of paper, government ‘scrip’. Is this the same word with the Saxon
‘scrip’, a wallet, having in some strange manner obtained these meanings so different and so
remote? Have we here only two different applications of one and the same word, or two homonyms,
wholly different words, though spelt alike? We have only to note the way in which the first
of these ‘scrips’ used to be written, namely with a final ‘t’, not ‘scrip’ but ‘script’, and
we are at once able to answer the question. This ‘script’ is a Latin, as the other is an Anglo-Saxon,
word, and meant at first simply a written (scripta) piece of paper--a circumstance which since
the omission of the final ‘t’ may easily escape our knowledge. ‘Afraid’ was spelt much better
in old times with the double ‘ff’, than with the single ‘f’ as now. It was then clear that
it was not another form of ‘afeared’, but wholly separate from it, the participle of the verb
‘to affray’, ‘affrayer’, or, as it is now written, ‘effrayer’{247}.

{Sidenote: ‘Whole’, ‘Hale’, ‘Heal’}

In the cases hitherto adduced, it has been the omission of a letter which has clouded and concealed
the etymology. The intrusion of a letter sometimes does the same. Thus in the early editions
of Paradise Lost, and in all writers of that time, you will find ‘scent’, an odour, spelt ‘sent’.
It was better so; there is no other noun substantive ‘sent’, with which it is in danger of
being confounded; while its relation with ‘sentio’, with ‘resent’{248}, ‘dissent’, and the
like, is put out of sight by its novel spelling; the intrusive ‘c’, serves only to mislead.
The same thing was attempted with ‘site’, ‘situate’, ‘situation’, spelt for a time by many,
‘scite’, ‘scituate’, ‘scituation’; but it did not continue with these. Again, ‘whole’, in Wiclif’s
Bible, and indeed much later, occasionally as far down as Spenser, is spelt ‘hole’, without
the ‘w’ at the beginning. The present orthography may have the advantage of at once distinguishing
the word to the eye from any other; but at the same time the initial ‘w’, now prefixed, hides
its relation to the verb ‘to heal’, with which it is closely allied. The ‘whole’ man is he
whose hurt is ‘healed’ or covered{249} (we say of the convalescent that he ‘recovers’){250};
‘whole’ being closely allied to ‘hale’ (integer), from which also by its modern spelling it
is divided. ‘Wholesome’ has naturally followed the fortunes of ‘whole’; it was spelt ‘holsome’
once.

Of ‘island’ too our present spelling is inferior to the old, inasmuch as it suggests a hybrid
formation, as though the word were made up of the Latin ‘insula’, and the Saxon ‘land’. It
is quite true that ‘isle’ is in relation with, and descent from, ‘insula’, ‘isola’, ‘île’;
and hence probably the misspelling of ‘island’. This last however has nothing to do with ‘insula’,
being identical with the German ‘eiland’, the Anglo-Saxon ‘ealand’{251} and signifying the
sea-land, or land girt, round with the sea. And it is worthy of note that this ‘s’ in the first
syllable of ‘island’ is quite of modern introduction. In all the earlier versions of the Scriptures,
and in the Authorized Version as at first set forth, it is ‘iland’; while in proof that this
is not accidental, it may be observed that, while ‘iland’ has not the ‘s’, ‘isle’ has it (see
Rev. i. 9). ‘Iland’ indeed is the spelling which we meet with far down into the seventeenth
century.

{Sidenote: Folk-etymologies}

What has just been said of ‘island’ leads me as by a natural transition to observe that one
of the most frequent causes of alteration in the spelling of a word is a wrongly assumed derivation.
It is then sought to bring the word into harmony with, and to make it by its spelling suggest,
this derivation, which has been erroneously thrust upon it. Here is a subject which, followed
out as it deserves, would form an interesting and instructive chapter in the history of language{252}.
Let me offer one or two small contributions to it; noting first by the way how remarkable an
evidence we have in this fact, of the manner in which not the learned only, but all persons
learned and unlearned alike, crave to have these words not body only, but body and soul. What
an attestation, I say, of this lies in the fact that where a word in its proper derivation
is unintelligible to them, they will shape and mould it into some other form, not enduring
that it should be a mere inert sound without sense in their ears; and if they do not know its
right origin, will rather put into it a wrong one, than that it should have for them no meaning,
and suggest no derivation at all{253}.

There is probably no language in which such a process has not been going forward; in which
it is not the explanation, in a vast number of instances, of changes in spelling and even in
form, which words have undergone. I will offer a few examples of it from foreign tongues, before
adducing any from our own. ‘Pyramid’ is a word, the spelling of which was affected in the Greek
by an erroneous assumption of its derivation; the consequences of this error surviving in our
own word to the present day. It is spelt by us with a ‘y’ in the first syllable, as it was
spelt with the υ corresponding in the Greek. But why was this? It was because the Greeks assumed
that the pyramids were so named from their having the appearance of flame going up into a point{254},
and so they spelt ‘pyramid’, that they might find πῦρ or ‘pyre’ in it; while in fact ‘pyramid’
has nothing to do with flame or fire at all; being, as those best qualified to speak on the
matter declare to us, an Egyptian word of quite a different signification{255}, and the Coptic
letters being much better represented by the diphthong ‘ei’ than by the letter ‘y’, as no doubt,
but for this mistaken notion of what the word was intended to mean, they would have been.

Once more--the form ‘Hierosolyma’, wherein the Greeks reproduced the Hebrew ‘Jerusalem’, was
intended in all probability to express that the city so called was the sacred city of the Solymi{256}.
At all events the intention not merely of reproducing the Hebrew word, but also of making it
significant in Greek, of finding ἱερόν in it, is plainly discernible. For indeed the Greeks
were exceedingly intolerant of foreign words, till they had laid aside their foreign appearance--of
all words which they could not thus quicken with a Greek soul; and, with a very characteristic
vanity, an ignoring of all other tongues but their own, assumed with no apparent misgivings
that all words, from whatever quarter derived, were to be explained by Greek etymologies{257}.

‘Tartar’ is another word, of which it is at least possible that a wrongly assumed derivation
has modified the spelling, and indeed not the spelling only, but the very shape in which we
now possess it. To many among us it may be known that the people designated by this appellation
are not properly ‘Tartars’, but ‘Tatars’; and you sometimes perhaps have noted the omission
of the ‘r’ on the part of those who are curious in their spelling. How, then, it may be asked,
did the form ‘Tartar’ arise? When the terrible hordes of middle Asia burst in upon civilized
Europe in the thirteenth century, many beheld in the ravages of their innumerable cavalry a
fulfilment of that prophetic word in the Revelation (chap. ix.) concerning the opening of the
bottomless pit; and from this belief ensued the change of their name from ‘Tatars’ to ‘Tartars’,
which was thus put into closer relation with ‘Tartarus’ or hell, out of which their multitudes
were supposed to have proceeded{258}.

Another good example in the same kind is the German word ‘sündflut’, the Deluge, which is now
so spelt as to signify a ‘sinflood’, the plague or flood of waters brought on the world by
the sins of mankind; and probably some of us have before this admired the pregnant significance
of the word. Yet the old High German word had originally no such intention; it was spelt ‘sinfluot’,
that is, the great flood; and as late as Luther, indeed in Luther’s own translation of the
Bible, is so spelt as to make plain that the notion of a ‘sin-flood’ had not yet found its
way into, even as it had not affected the spelling of, the word{259}.

{Sidenote: ‘Currants’}

But to look now nearer home for our examples. The little raisins brought from Greece, which
play so important a part in one of the national dishes of England, the Christmas plum-pudding,
used to be called ‘corinths’; and so you would find them in mercantile lists of a hundred years
ago: either that for the most part they were shipped from Corinth, the principal commercial
city in Greece, or because they grew in large abundance in the immediate district round about
it. Their likeness in shape and size and general appearance to our own currants, working together
with the ignorance of the great majority of English people about any such place as Corinth,
soon brought the name ‘corinths’ into ‘currants’, which now with a certain unfitness they bear;
being not currants at all, but dried grapes, though grapes of diminutive size{260}.

{Sidenote: ‘Court-cards’}

‘Court-cards’, that is, the king, queen, and knave in each suit, were once ‘coat-cards’{261};
having their name from the long splendid ‘coat’ (vestis talaris) with which they were arrayed.
Probably ‘coat’ after a while did not perfectly convey its original meaning and intention;
being no more in common use for the long garment reaching down to the heels; and then ‘coat’
was easily exchanged for ‘court’, as the word is now both spelt and pronounced, seeing that
nowhere so fitly as in a Court should such splendidly arrayed personages be found. A public
house in the neighbourhood of London having a few years since for its sign “The George Canning”
is already “The George and Cannon”,--so rapidly do these transformations proceed, so soon is
that forgotten which we suppose would never be forgotten. “Welsh rarebit” becomes “Welsh rabbit”{262};
and ‘farced’ or stuffed ‘meat’ becomes “forced meat”. Even the mere determination to make a
word look English, to put it into an English shape, without thereby so much as seeming to attain
any result in the way of etymology, this is very often sufficient to bring about a change in
its spelling, and even in its form{263}. It is thus that ‘sipahi’ has become ‘sepoy’; and only
so could ‘weissager’ have taken its present form of ‘wiseacre’{264}.

{Sidenote: Transformation of Words}

It is not very uncommon for a word, while it is derived from one word, to receive a certain
impulse and modification from another. This extends sometimes beyond the spelling, and in cases
where it does so, would hardly belong to our present theme. Still I may notice an instance
or two. Thus our ‘obsequies’ is the Latin ‘exequiæ’, but formed under a certain impulse of
‘obsequium’, and seeking to express and include the observant honour of that word. ‘To refuse’
is ‘recusare’, while yet it has derived the ‘f’ of its second syllable from ‘refutare’; it
is a medley of the two{265}. The French ‘rame’, an oar, is ‘remus’, but that modified by an
unconscious recollection of ‘ramus’. ‘Orange’ is no doubt a Persian word, which has reached
us through the Arabic, and which the Spanish ‘naranja’ more nearly represents than any form
of it existing in the other languages of Europe. But what so natural as to think of the orange
as the golden fruit, especially when the “aurea mala” of the Hesperides were familiar to all
antiquity? There cannot be a doubt that ‘aurum’, ‘oro’, ‘or’, made themselves felt in the shapes
which the word assumed in the languages of the West, and that here we have the explanation
of the change in the first syllable, as in the low Latin ‘aurantium’, ‘orangia’, and in the
French ‘orange’, which has given us our own.

It is foreign words, or words adopted from foreign languages, as might beforehand be expected,
which are especially subjected to such transformations as these. The soul which the word once
had in its own language, having, for as many as do not know that language, departed from it,
or at least not being now any more to be recognized by such as employ the word, these are not
satisfied till they have put another soul into it, and it has thus become alive to them again.
Thus--to take first one or two very familiar instances, but which serve as well as any other
to illustrate my position--the Bellerophon becomes for our sailors the ‘Billy Ruffian’, for
what can they know of the Greek mythology, or of the slayer of Chimæra? an iron steamer, the
Hirondelle, now or lately plying on the Tyne, is the ‘Iron Devil’. ‘Contre danse’, or dance
in which the parties stand face to face with one another, and which ought to have appeared
in English as ‘counter dance’, does become ‘country dance’{266}, as though it were the dance
of the country folk and rural districts, as distinguished from the quadrille and waltz and
more artificial dances of the town{267}. A well known rose, the “rose des quatre saisons”,
or of the four seasons, becomes on the lips of some of our gardeners, the “rose of the quarter
sessions”, though here it is probable that the eye has misled, rather than the ear. ‘Dent de
lion’, (it is spelt ‘dentdelyon’ in our early writers) becomes ‘dandylion’, “chaude melée”,
or an affray in hot blood, “chance-medley”{268}, ‘causey’ (chaussée) becomes ‘causeway’{269},
‘rachitis’ ‘rickets’{270}, and in French ‘mandragora’ ‘main de gloire’{271}.

{Sidenote: ‘Necromancy’}

‘Necromancy’ is another word which, if not now, yet for a long period was erroneously spelt,
and indeed assumed a different shape, under the influence of an erroneous derivation; which,
curiously enough, even now that it has been dismissed, has left behind it the marks of its
presence, in our common phrase, “the Black Art”. I need hardly remind you that ‘necromancy’
is a Greek word, which signifies, according to its proper meaning, a prophesying by aid of
the dead, or that it rests on the presumed power of raising up by potent spells the dead, and
compelling them to give answers about things to come. We all know that it was supposed possible
to exercise such power; we have a very awful example of it in the story of the witch of Endor,
and a very horrid one in Lucan{272}. But the Latin medieval writers, whose Greek was either
little or none, spelt the word, ‘nigromantia’, as if its first syllables had been Latin: at
the same time, not wholly forgetting the original meaning, but in fact getting round to it
though by a wrong process, they understood the dead by these ‘nigri’, or blacks, whom they
had brought into the word{273}. Down to a rather late period we find the forms, ‘negromancer’
and ‘negromancy’ frequent in English.

{Sidenote: Words Misspelt}

‘Pleurisy’ used often to be spelt, (I do not think it is so now,) without an ‘e’ in the first
syllable, evidently on the tacit assumption that it was from plus pluris{274}. When Shakespeare
falls into an error, he “makes the offence gracious”; yet, I think, he would scarcely have written,

    “For goodness growing to a plurisy
    Dies of his own too much”,

but that he too derived ‘plurisy’ from pluris. This, even with the “small Latin and less Greek”,
which Ben Jonson allows him, he scarcely would have done, had the word presented itself in
that form, which by right of its descent from πλευρά (being a pain, stitch, or sickness in
the side) it ought to have possessed. Those who for ‘crucible’ wrote ‘chrysoble’ (Jeremy Taylor
does so) must evidently have done this under the assumption that the Greek for gold, and not
the Latin for cross, lay at the foundation of this word. ‘Anthymn’ instead of ‘anthem’ (Barrow
so spells the word), rests plainly on a wrong etymology, even as this spelling clearly betrays
what that wrong etymology is. ‘Rhyme’ with a ‘y’ is a modern misspelling; and would never have
been but for the undue influence which the Greek ‘rhythm’ has exercised upon it. Spenser and
his cotemporaries spell it ‘rime’. ‘Abominable’ was by some etymologists of the seventeenth
century spelt ‘abhominable’, as though it were that which departed from the human (ab homine)
into the bestial or devilish.

In all these words which I have adduced last, the correct spelling has in the end resumed its
sway. It is not so with ‘frontispiece’, which ought to be spelt ‘frontispice’ (it was so by
Milton and others), being the low Latin ‘frontispicium’, from ‘frons’ and ‘aspicio’, the forefront
of the building, that part which presents itself to the view. It was only the entirely ungrounded
notion that the word ‘piece’ constitutes the last syllable, which has given rise to our present
orthography{275}.

{Sidenote: Wrong Spelling}

You may, perhaps, wonder that I have dwelt so long on these details of spelling; that I have
bestowed on them so much of my own attention, that I have claimed for them so much of yours;
yet in truth I cannot regard them as unworthy of our very closest heed. For indeed of how much
beyond itself is accurate or inaccurate spelling the certain indication. Thus when we meet
‘syren’, for ‘siren’, as so strangely often we do, almost always in newspapers, and often where
we should hardly have expected (I met it lately in the Quarterly Review, and again in Gifford’s
Massinger), how difficult it is not to be “judges of evil thoughts”, and to take this slovenly
misspelling as the specimen and evidence of an inaccuracy and ignorance which reaches very
far wider than the single word which is before us. But why is it that so much significance
is ascribed to a wrong spelling? Because ignorance of a word’s spelling at once argues ignorance
of its origin and derivation. I do not mean that one who spells rightly may not be ignorant
of it too, but he who spells wrongly is certainly so. Thus, to recur to the example I have
just adduced, he who for ‘siren’ writes ‘syren’, certainly knows nothing of the magic cords
(σειραί) of song, by which those fair enchantresses were supposed to draw those that heard
them to their ruin{276}.

Correct or incorrect orthography being, then, this note of accurate or inaccurate knowledge,
we may confidently conclude where two spellings of a word exist, and are both employed by persons
who generally write with precision and scholarship, that there must be something to account
for this. It will generally be worth your while to inquire into the causes which enable both
spellings to hold their ground and to find their supporters, not ascribing either one or the
other to mere carelessness or error. It will in these cases often be found that two spellings
exist, because two views of the word’s origin exist, and each of those spellings is the correct
expression of one of these. The question therefore which way of spelling should continue, and
wholly supersede the other, and which, while the alternative remains, we should ourselves employ,
can only be settled by settling which of these etymologies deserves the preference. So is it,
for example, with ‘chymist’ and ‘chemist’, neither of which has obtained in our common use
the complete mastery over the other{277}. It is not here, as in some other cases, that one
is certainly right, the other as certainly wrong: but they severally represent two different
etymologies of the word, and each is correct according to its own. If we are to spell ‘chymist’
and ‘chymistry’, it is because these words are considered to be derived from the Greek word,
χυμός, sap; and the chymic art will then have occupied itself first with distilling the juice
and sap of plants, and will from this have derived its name. I have little doubt, however,
that the other spelling, ‘chemist’, not ‘chymist’, is the correct one. It was not with the
distillation of herbs, but with the amalgamation of metals, that chemistry occupied itself
at its rise, and the word embodies a reference to Egypt, the land of Ham or ‘Cham’{278}, in
which this art was first practised with success.

{Sidenote: ‘Satyr’, ‘Satire’}

Of how much confusion the spelling which used to be so common, ‘satyr’ for ‘satire’, is at
once the consequence, the expression, and again the cause; not indeed that this confusion first
began with us{279}; for the same already found place in the Latin, where ‘satyricus’ was continually
written for ‘satiricus’ out of a false assumption of the identity between the Roman satire
and the Greek satyric drama. The Roman ‘satira’,--I speak of things familiar to many of my
hearers,--is properly a full dish (lanx being understood)--a dish heaped up with various ingredients,
a ‘farce’ (according to the original signification of that word), or hodge-podge; and the word
was transferred from this to a form of poetry which at first admitted the utmost variety in
the materials of which it was composed, and the shapes into which these materials were wrought
up; being the only form of poetry which the Romans did not borrow from the Greeks. Wholly different
from this, having no one point of contact with it in its form, its history, or its intention,
is the ‘satyric’ drama of Greece, so called because Silenus and the ‘Satyrs’ supplied the chorus;
and in their naïve selfishness, and mere animal instincts, held up before men a mirror of what
they would be, if only the divine, which is also the truly human, element of humanity, were
withdrawn; what man, all that properly made him man being withdrawn, would prove.

{Sidenote: ‘Mid-wife’, ‘Nostril’}

And then what light, as we have already seen, does the older spelling of a word often cast
upon its etymology; how often does it clear up the mystery, which would otherwise have hung
about it, or which had hung about it till some one had noticed and turned to profit this its
earlier spelling. Thus ‘dirge’ is always spelt ‘dirige’ in early English. This ‘dirige’ may
be the first word in a Latin psalm or prayer once used at funerals; there is a reasonable probability
that the explanation of the word is here; at any rate, if it is not here, it is nowhere{280}.
The derivation of ‘mid-wife’ is uncertain, and has been the subject of discussion; but when
we find it spelt ‘medewife’ and ‘meadwife’, in Wiclif’s Bible, this leaves hardly a doubt that
it is the wife or woman who acts for a mead or reward{281}. In cases too where there was no
mystery hanging about a word, how often does the early spelling make clear to all that which
was before only known to those who had made the language their study. For example, if an early
edition of Spenser should come into your hands, or a modern one in which the early spelling
is retained, what continual lessons in English might you derive from it. Thus ‘nostril’ is
always spelt by him and his cotemporaries ‘nosethrill’; a little earlier it was ‘nosethirle’.
Now ‘to thrill’ is the same as to drill or pierce; it is plain then here at once that the word
signifies the orifice or opening with which the nose is thrilled, drilled, or pierced. We might
have read the word for ever in our modern spelling without being taught this. ‘Ell’ tells us
nothing about itself; but in ‘eln’ used in Holland’s translation of Camden, we recognize ‘ulna’
at once.

Again, the ‘morris’ or ‘morrice-dance’, which is alluded to so often by our early poets, as
it is now spelt informs us nothing about itself; but read ‘moriske dance’, as it is generally
spelt by Holland and his cotemporaries, and you will scarcely fail to perceive that of which
indeed there is no manner of doubt; namely, that it was so called either because it was really,
or was supposed to be, a dance in use among the moriscoes of Spain, and from thence introduced
into England{282}.

Again, philologers tell us, and no doubt rightly, that our ‘cray-fish’, or ‘craw-fish’, is
the French ‘écrevisse’. This is true, but certainly it is not self-evident. Trace however the
word through these successive spellings, ‘krevys’ (Lydgate), ‘crevish’ (Gascoigne), ‘craifish’
(Holland), and the chasm between ‘cray-fish’ or ‘craw-fish’ and ‘écrevisse’ is by aid of these
three intermediate spellings bridged over at once; and in the fact of our Gothic ‘fish’ finding
its way into this French word we see only another example of a law, which has been already
abundantly illustrated in this lecture{283}.

{Sidenote: ‘Emmet’, ‘Ant’}

In other ways also an accurate taking note of the spelling of words, and of the successive
changes which it has undergone, will often throw light upon them. Thus we may know, others
having assured us of the fact, that ‘ant’ and ‘emmet’ were originally only two different spellings
of one and the same word; but we may be perplexed to understand how two forms of a word, now
so different, could ever have diverged from a single root. When however we find the different
spellings, ‘emmet’, ‘emet’, ‘amet’, ‘amt’, ‘ant’, the gulf which appeared to separate ‘emmet’
from ‘ant’ is bridged over at once, and we do not merely know on the assurance of others that
these two are in fact identical, their differences being only superficial, but we perceive
clearly in what manner they are so{284}.

Even before any close examination of the matter, it is hard not to suspect that ‘runagate’
is in fact another form of ‘renegade’, slightly transformed, as so many words, to put an English
signification into its first syllable; and then the meaning gradually modified in obedience
to the new derivation which was assumed to be its original and true one. Our suspicion of this
is very greatly strengthened (for we see how very closely the words approach one another),
by the fact that ‘renegade’ is constantly spelt ‘renegate’ in our old authors, while at the
same time the denial of faith, which is now a necessary element in ‘renegade’, and one differencing
it inwardly from ‘runagate’, is altogether wanting in early use--the denial of country and
of the duties thereto owing being all that is implied in it. Thus it is constantly employed
in Holland’s Livy as a rendering of ‘perfuga’{285}; while in the one passage where ‘runagate’
occurs in the Prayer Book Version of the Psalms (Ps. lxviii. 6), a reference to the original
will show that the translators could only have employed it there on the ground that it also
expressed rebel, revolter, and not runaway merely{286}.

{Sidenote: Assimilating Power of English}

I might easily occupy your attention much longer, so little barren or unfruitful does this
subject of spelling appear likely to prove; but all things must have an end; and as I concluded
my first lecture with a remarkable testimony borne by an illustrious German scholar to the
merits of our English tongue, I will conclude my last with the words of another, not indeed
a German, but still of the great Germanic stock; words resuming in themselves much of which
we have been speaking upon this and upon former occasions: “As our bodies”, he says, “have
hidden resources and expedients, to remove the obstacles which the very art of the physician
puts in its way, so language, ruled by an indomitable inward principle, triumphs in some degree
over the folly of grammarians. Look at the English, polluted by Danish and Norman conquests,
distorted in its genuine and noble features by old and recent endeavours to mould it after
the French fashion, invaded by a hostile entrance of Greek and Latin words, threatening by
increasing hosts to overwhelm the indigenous terms. In these long contests against the combined
power of so many forcible enemies, the language, it is true, has lost some of its power of
inversion in the structure of sentences, the means of denoting the difference of gender, and
the nice distinctions by inflection and termination--almost every word is attacked by the spasm
of the accent and the drawing of consonants to wrong positions; yet the old English principle
is not overpowered. Trampled down by the ignoble feet of strangers, its springs still retain
force enough to restore itself. It lives and plays through all the veins of the language; it
impregnates the innumerable strangers entering its dominions with its temper, and stains them
with its colour, not unlike the Greek which in taking up oriental words, stripped them of their
foreign costume, and bid them to appear as native Greeks”{287}.

{FOOTNOTES}

{228} In proof that it need not be so, I would only refer to a paper,
      On Orthographical Expedients, by Edwin Guest, Esq., in the
      Transactions of the Philological Society, vol. iii. p. 1.

{229} [The scientific treatises on Phonetics of Mr. Alexander J. Ellis
      and Dr. Henry Sweet have surmounted the difficulty of registering
      sounds with great accuracy.]

{230} I have not observed this noticed in our dictionaries as the
      original form of the phrase. There is no doubt however of the
      fact; see Stanihurst’s Ireland, p. 33, in Holinshed’s
      Chronicles. [Rather from torvien, to throw,--Skeat].

{231} Notes and Queries, No. 147.

{232} See Boswell’s Life of Johnson, Croker’s edit. 1848, p. 233.

{233} [The b was purposely foisted into these words by bookmen to
      suggest their Latin derivation; it did not belong to them in
      earlier English. The same may be said of the g, intruded into
      ‘deign’ and ‘feign’.]

{234} A chief phonographer writes to me to deny that this is the present
      spelling (1856) of ‘Europe’. It was so when this paragraph was
      written. [Most people would now consider [Yeuroap] as American
      pronunciation.]

{235} Quintilian has expressed himself with the true dignity of a
      scholar on this matter (Inst. 1, 6, 45): Consuetudinem sermonis
      vocabo consensum eruditorum; sicut vivendi consensum
      bonorum.--How different from innovations like this the changes in
      the spelling of German which J. Grimm, so far as his own example
      may reach, has introduced; and the still bolder and more
      extensive ones which in the Preface to his Deutsches
      Wörterbuch, pp. liv.-lxii., he avows his desire to see
      introduced;--as the employment of f, not merely where it is at
      present used, but also wherever v is now employed; the
      substituting of the v, which would be thus disengaged, for w,
      and the entire dismissal of w. They may be advisable, or they
      may not; it is not for strangers to offer an opinion; but at any
      rate they are not a seizing of the fluctuating, superficial
      accidents of the present, and a seeking to give permanent
      authority to these, but they all rest on a deep historic study of
      the language, and of the true genius of the language.

{236} Croker’s edit. 1848, pp. 57, 61, 233.

{237} [An incorrect conclusion. Almost all ‘ea’ words were pronounced
      ‘ai’ down to the eighteenth century. Thus ‘great’ was a true rhyme
      to ‘cheat’ and ‘complete’, their ordinary pronunciation being
      ‘grait’, ‘chait’, ‘complait’.]

{238} [i.e. ‘Lunnun’.]

{239} A proposal for correcting, improving and ascertaining the English
      Tongue, 1711, Works, vol. ix, pp. 139-59.

{240} [‘Devest’ was still in use till the end of the eighteenth century,
      but ‘divest’ is already found in King Lear, 1605, i, 1, 50.]

{241} Pygmæi, quasi cubitales (Augustine).

{242} First so used by Theophrastus in Greek, and by Pliny in
      Latin.--The real identity of the two words explains Milton’s use
      of ‘diamond’ in Paradise Lost, b. 7; and also in that sublime
      passage in his Apology for Smectymnuus: “Then zeal, whose
      substance is ethereal, arming in complete diamond”.--Diez
      (Wörterbuch d. Roman. Sprachen, p. 123) supposes, not very
      probably, that it was under a certain influence of ‘diafano’,
      the translucent, that ‘adamante’ was in the Italian, whence we
      have derived the word, changed into ‘diamante’.

{243} [Similarly jowl for chowl or chavel.]

{244} Richard III, Act iv, Sc. 4.

{245} [For another account of this word, approved by Dr. Murray, see
      The Folk and their Word-Lore, p. 156.]

{246} [‘Bliss’ representing the old English bliths or blidhs,
      blitheness, is really a quite distinct word from ‘bless’, standing
      for blets, old English blétsian (=blóedsian, to consecrate
      with blood, blód), although the latter was by a folk-etymology
      very frequently spelt ‘bliss’.]

{247} [But ‘afraied’ is the earliest form of the word (1350), the verb
      itself being at first spelt ‘afray’ (1325). N.E.D.]

{248} How close this relationship was once, not merely in respect of
      etymology, but also of significance, a passage like this will
      prove: “Perchance, as vultures are said to smell the earthiness of
      a dying corpse; so this bird of prey [the evil spirit which
      personated Samuel, 1 Sam. xxviii. 41] resented a worse than
      earthly savor in the soul of Saul, as evidence of his death at
      hand”. (Fuller, The Profane State, b. 5, c. 4.)

{249} [There is an unfortunate confusion here between ‘heal’ to make
      ‘hale’ or ‘[w]hole’ (Anglo-Saxon hælan) and the old (and
      Provincial) English hill, to cover, hilling, covering,
      hellier, a slater, akin to ‘hell’, the covered place, ‘helm’;
      Icelandic hylja, to cover.]

{250} [By a curious slip Dr. Trench here confounds ‘recover’, to
      recuperate or regain health (derived through old French recovrer
      from Latin recuperare), with a totally distinct word re-cover,
      to cover or clothe over again, which comes from old French
      covrir, Latin co-operire. It is just the difference between
      ‘recovering’ a lost umbrella through the police and ‘recovering’ a
      torn one at a shop. I pointed this out to the author in 1869, and
      I think he altered the passage in his later editions.]

{251} [‘Island’, though cognate with Anglo-Saxon eá-land “water-land”
      (German ei-land), is really identical with Anglo-Saxon
      íg-land, i.e. “isle-land”, from íg, an island, the diminutive
      of which survives in eyot or ait.]

{252} [The editor essayed to make a complete collection of this class of
      words in his Folk-etymology, a Dictionary of Words corrupted by
      False Derivation or Mistaken Analogy, 1882, and more recently in
      a condensed form in The Folk and their Word-Lore, 1904.]

{253} Diez looks with much favour on this process, and calls it, ein
      sinnreiches mittel fremdlinge ganz heimisch zu machen.

{254} Ammianus Marcellinus, xxii, 15, 28.

{255} [The Greek pyramis probably represents the Egyptian
      piri-m-ûisi (Maspero, Dawn of Civilization, 358), or
      pir-am-us (Brugsch, Egypt under the Pharaohs, i, 73), rather
      than pi-ram, ‘the height’ (Birch, Bunsen’s Egypt, v, 763).]

{256} Tacitus, Hist. v. 2.

{257} Let me illustrate this by further instances in a note. Thus
      βούτυρον, from which, through the Latin, our ‘butter’ has
      descended to us, is borrowed (Pliny, H.N. xxviii. 9) from a
      Scythian word, now to us unknown: yet it is sufficiently plain
      that the Greeks so shaped and spelt it as to contain apparent
      allusion to cow and cheese; there is in βούτυρον an evident
      feeling after βοῦς and τυρόν. Bozra, meaning citadel in Hebrew and
      Phœnician, and the name, no doubt, which the citadel of Carthage
      bore, becomes Βύρσα on Greek lips; and then the well known legend
      of the ox-hide was invented upon the name; not having suggested
      it, but being itself suggested by it. Herodian (v. 6) reproduces
      the name of the Syrian goddess Astarte in a shape that is
      significant also for Greek ears--Ἀστροάρχη, The Star-ruler, or
      Star-queen. When the apostate and hellenizing Jews assumed Greek
      names, ‘Eliakim’ or “Whom God has set”, became ‘Alcimus’ (ἄλκιμος)
      or The Strong (1 Macc. vii. 5). Latin examples in like kind are
      ‘comissatio’, spelt continually ‘comessatio’, and
      ‘comessation’ by those who sought to naturalize it in England,
      as though it were connected with ‘cŏmedo’, to eat, being indeed
      the substantive from the verb ‘cōmissari’ (--κωμάζειν), to revel,
      as Plutarch, whose Latin is in general not very accurate, long ago
      correctly observed; and ‘orichalcum’, spelt often ‘aurichalcum’,
      as though it were a composite metal of mingled gold and brass;
      being indeed the mountain brass (ὀρείχαλκος). The miracle play,
      which is ‘mystère’, in French, whence our English ‘mystery’ was
      originally written ‘mistère’, being properly derived from
      ‘ministère’, and having its name because the clergy, the
      ministri Ecclesiæ, conducted it. This was forgotten, and it then
      took its present form of ‘mystery’, as though so called because
      the mysteries of the faith were in it set out.

{258} We have here, in this bringing of the words by their supposed
      etymology together, the explanation of the fact that Spenser
      (Fairy Queen, i, 7, 44), Middleton (Works, vol. 5, pp. 524,
      528, 538), and others employ ‘Tartary’ as equivalent to ‘Tartarus’
      or hell.

{259} For a full discussion of this matter and fixing of the period at
      which ‘sinfluot’ became ‘sündflut’, see the Theol. Stud. u.
      Krit. vol. ii, p. 613; and Delitzsch, Genesis, 2nd ed. vol. ii,
      p. 210.

{260} [The name of the small grape, originally raisins de Corauntz,
      was transferred to the ribes in the sixteenth century.]

{261} Ben Jonson, The New Inn, Act i, Sc. i.

{262} [On the contrary, it is the modern “Welsh rarebit” which has
      been mistakenly evolved out of the older “Welsh rabbit” as I
      have shown in Folk-Etymology, p. 431. Grose has both forms in
      his Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue, 1785.]

{263} ‘Leghorn’ is sometimes quoted as an example of this; but
      erroneously; for, as Admiral Smyth has shown (The Mediterranean,
      p. 409) ‘Livorno’ is itself rather the modern corruption, and
      ‘Ligorno’ the name found on the earlier charts.

{264} Exactly the same happens in other languages; thus ‘armbrust’, a
      crossbow, looks German enough, and yet has nothing to do with
      ‘arm’ or ‘brust’, being a contraction of ‘arcubalista’, but a
      contraction under these influences. As little has ‘abenteuer’
      anything to do with ‘abend’ or ‘theuer’, however it may seem to be
      connected with them, being indeed the Provençal ‘adventura’. And
      ‘weissagen’ in its earlier forms had nothing in common with
      ‘sagen’.

{265} [So Diez. [Works, vol. xiv., p. 201.]

{267} [The direct opposite is the fact. The French contredanse was
      borrowed from the English ‘country-dance’. See The Folk and their
      Word-Lore, p. 153.]

{268} [These words are not identical. They were in use as distinct words
      in the fifteenth century. See N.E.D.]

{269} [Dr. Murray has shown that ‘causeway’ is not a corruption of
      ‘causey’ but a compound of that word with ‘way’.]

{270} [Prof. Skeat has demonstrated that the supposed Greek ‘rachitis’,
      inflammation of the back, is an ætiological invention to serve as
      etymon of ‘rickets’, the condition of being rickety, a purely
      native word. See also Folk-Etymology, 312.]

{271} [See The Folk and their Word-Lore, p. 124.]

{272} Phars. vi. 720-830.

{273} Thus in a Vocabulary, 1475: Nigromansia dicitur divinatio facta
      per nigros.

{274} [Dyce believed that it was really thus derived and distinct from
      pleurisy, but it was evidently modelled upon that word (Remarks
      on Editions of Shakespeare, p. 218).]

{275} As ‘orthography’ itself means properly “right spelling”, it might
      be a curious question whether it is permissible to speak of an
      incorrect orthography, that is of a wrong right-spelling.
      The question which would be thus started is one of not unfrequent
      recurrence, and it is very worthy of observation how often, so
      soon as we take note of etymologies, this contradictio in
      adjecto is found to occur. I will here adduce a few examples
      from the Greek, the Latin, the German, and from our own tongue.
      Thus the Greeks having no convenient word to express a rider,
      apart from a rider on a horse, did not scruple to speak of the
      horseman (ἱππεύς) upon an elephant. They often allowed
      themselves in a like inaccuracy, where certainly there was no
      necessity; as in using ἀνδριάς of the statue of a woman; where
      it would have been quite as easy to have used εἱκών or ἄγαλμα. So
      too their ‘table’ (τράπεζα = τετράπεζα) involved probably the
      four feet which commonly support one; yet they did not shrink
      from speaking of a three-footed table (τρίπους τράπεζα), in
      other words, a “three-footed four-footed”; much as though we
      should speak of a “three-footed quadruped”. Homer writes of a
      ‘hecatomb’ not of a hundred, but of twelve, oxen; and elsewhere
      of Hebe he says, in words not reproducible in English, νέκταρ
      ἐωνοχόει. ‘Tetrarchs’ were often rulers of quite other than
      fourth parts of a land. Ἀκρατος had so come to stand for wine,
      without any thought more of its signifying originally the
      unmingled, that St. John speaks of ἄκρατος κεκερασμένος (Rev.
      xiv. 10), or the unmingled mingled. Boxes in which precious
      ointments were contained were so commonly of alabaster, that the
      name came to be applied to them whether they were so or not; and
      Theocritus celebrates “golden alabasters”. Cicero having to
      mention a water-clock is obliged to call it a water sundial
      (solarium ex aquâ). Columella speaks of a “vintage of honey”
      (vindemia mellis), and Horace invites his friend to impede, not
      his foot, but his head, with myrtle (caput impedire myrto).
      Thus too a German writer who desired to tell of the golden shoes
      with which the folly of Caligula adorned his horse could scarcely
      avoid speaking of golden hoof-irons. The same inner
      contradiction is involved in such language as our own, a “false
      verdict”, a “steel cuirass” (‘coriacea’ from corium,
      leather), “antics new” (Harrington’s Ariosto), an “erroneous
      etymology”, a “corn chandler”; that is, a “corn
      candle-maker”, “rather late”, ‘rather’ being the
      comparative of ‘rathe’, early, and thus “rather late” being
      indeed “more early late”; and in others.

{276} [‘Siren’ is now generally understood to have meant originally a
      songstress, from the root svar, to sing or sound, seen in
      syrinx, a flute, su(r)-sur-us, etc. See J. E. Harrison, Myths
      of the Odyssey, p. 175.]

{277} [‘Chymist’ seems to be the oldest form of the word in English; see
      N.E.D.]

{278} χημία, the name of Egypt; see Plutarch, De Is. et Os. c. 33.

{279} We have a notable evidence how deeply rooted this error was, how
      long this confusion endured, of the way in which it was shared by
      the learned as well as the unlearned, in Milton’s Apology for
      Smectymnuus, sect. 7, which everywhere presumes the identity of
      the ‘satyr’ and the ‘satirist’. It was Isaac Casaubon who first
      effectually dissipated it even for the learned world. The results
      of his investigations were made popular for the unlearned reader
      by Dryden, in the very instructive Discourse on Satirical
      Poetry, prefixed to his translations of Juvenal; but the
      confusion still survives, and ‘satyrs’ and ‘satires’, the Greek
      ‘satyric’ drama, the Latin ‘satirical’ poetry, are still assumed
      by most to have something to do with one another.

{280} [‘Dirige’ was the first word of the antiphon at matins in the
      Office for the Dead, taken from Psalm v, 9 (Vulg.), in which occur
      the words “dirige in conspectu tuo vitam meam”. See Skeat,
      Piers Plowman, ii, 52. Hence also Scotch dregy, a dirge.]

{281} [Incorrect: the ‘mid-wife’ is etymologically she that is with
      (old English mid) a woman to help her in her hour of need, like
      German bei-frau, Spanish co-madre, Icelandic naer-kona,
      “near-woman”, Latin ob-stetrix, “by-stander”, all words for the
      lying-in nurse. Compare German mit-bruder, a comrade.]

{282}               “I have seen him
      Caper upright, like a wild Môrisco,
      Shaking the bloody darts, as he his bells”.

                        Shakespeare, 2 Henry VI Act iii, Sc. 1.

{283} In the reprinting of old books it is often very difficult to
      determine how far the old shape in which words present themselves
      should be retained, how far they should be conformed to present
      usage. It is comparatively easy to lay down as a rule that in
      books intended for popular use, wherever the form of the word is
      not affected by the modernizing of the spelling, as where this
      modernizing consists merely in the dropping of superfluous
      letters, there it shall take place; as who would wish our Bibles
      to be now printed letter for letter after the edition of 1611, or
      Shakespeare with the orthography of the first folio; but wherever
      more than the spelling, the actual shape, outline, and character
      of the word has been affected by the changes which it has
      undergone, that in all such cases the earlier form shall be held
      fast. The rule is a judicious one; but when it is attempted to
      carry it out, it is not always easy to draw the line, and to
      determine what affects the form and essence of a word, and what
      does not. About some words there can be no doubt; and therefore
      when a modern editor of Fuller’s Church History complacently
      announces that he has allowed himself in such changes as ‘dirige’
      into ‘dirge’, ‘barreter’ into ‘barrister’, ‘synonymas’ into
      ‘synonymous’, ‘extempory’ into ‘extemporary’, ‘scited’ into
      ‘situated’, ‘vancurrier’ into ‘avant-courier’; he at the same time
      informs us that for all purposes of the study of the English
      language (and few writers are for this more important than
      Fuller), he has made his edition utterly worthless. Or again, when
      modern editors of Shakespeare print, and that without giving any
      intimation of the fact,

          “Like quills upon the fretful porcupine”,

      he having written, and in his first folio and quarto the words
      standing,

          “Like quills upon the fretful porpentine”,

      this being the earlier, and in Shakespeare’s time the more common
      form of the word [e.g. “the purpentines nature” (Puttenham,
      Eng. Poesie, 1589, p. 118, ed. Arber)], they must be considered
      as taking a very unwarrantable liberty with his text; and no less,
      when they substitute ‘Kenilworth’ for ‘Killingworth’, which he
      wrote, and which was his, Marlowe’s, and generally the earlier
      form of the name.

{284} [Compare Latin amita, yielding old French ante, our ‘aunt’.]

{285} “The Carthaginians shall restore and deliver back all the
      renegates [perfugas] and fugitives that have fled to their side
      from us”.--p. 751.

{286} [See further in The Folk and their Word-Lore, p. 80.]

{287} Halbertsma quoted by Bosworth, Origin of the English and Germanic
      Languages, p. 39.

INDEX OF WORDS

                              PAGE
    Abenteuer                  240
    Abnormal                    72
    Abominable                 245
    Academy                     70
    Accommodate                107
    Acre                       193
    Adamant                    230
    Admiralty                  107
    Advocate                    82
    Æon                         72
    Æsthetic                    72
    Afeard                     126
    Affluent                   104
    Afraid                     127
    Afterthink                 120
    Alcimus                    237
    Alcove                      16
    Amphibious                 107
    Analogie                    56
    Ant                        253
    Antecedents                210
    Anthem                     245
    Antipodes                   68
    Apotheosis                  67
    -ard                       141
    Armbrust                   240
    Arride                      58
    Ascertain                  186
    Ask                        126
    Astarte                    237
    Attercop                   123
    Aurantium                  241
    Aurichalcum                237
    Avunculize                  91
    Axe                        126

    Baffle                     181
    Baker, bakester            157
    Banter                     106
    Barrier                     70
    Battalion                   61
    Bawn                       123
    Benefice, benefit           97
    Bitesheep                  144
    Black art                  243
    Blackguard                 189
    Blasphemous                128
    Bless                      231
    Bombast                    199
    Book                        21
    Boor                       202
    Bozra                      237
    Brangle                    177
    Bran-new                   231
    Brat                       205
    Brazen                     164
    Breaden                    163
    Bruin                       89
    Buffalo                     16
    Butter                     237
    Buxom                      139

    Chagrin                     95
    Chance-medley              243
    Chanticleer                 89
    Chemist, chemistry         248
    Chicken                    158
    Chouse                      91
    Chymist, chymistry         248
    Clawback                   144
    Comissatio                 237
    Commérage                  204
    Confluent                  104
    Congregational              79
    Contrary                   128
    Corpse                     191
    Country dance              242
    Court card                 239
    Coxcomb                    229
    Cozen                      231
    Crawfish                   252
    Creansur                    45
    Criterion                   67
    Crone, crony                93
    Crucible                   245
    Crusade                     62
    Cuirass                    246
    Currant                    239
    Cynarctomachy               91

    Dahlia                      88
    Dame                       192
    Dandylion                  243
    Dearworth                  120
    Dedal                       86
    Dehort                     137
    Demagogue                   55
    Denominationalism           79
    Depot                       69
    Diamond                    230
    Dirge                      250
    Dissimilation              103
    Divest                     229
    Donat                       86
    Dorter                      20
    Dosones                     90
    Doughty                    146
    Drachm                     193
    Dragoman                    12
    Dub                        146
    Duke                       191
    Dumps                      147
    Dutch                      177

    Eame                       118
    Earsport                   119
    Eaves                      159
    Educational                 79
    Effervescence               55
    Einseitig                   75
    Eliakim                    237
    Ell                        251
    Emet                       253
    Emotional                   79
    Encyclopedia                67
    Enfantillage                55
    Equivocation               196
    Erutar                     149
    Escobarder                  88
    -ess                       153
    Europe                     224
    Eyebite                    120

