THE WORKS

                               OF

                            VOLTAIRE.

                           VOLUME XXXIII

        FROM THE PRINTING HOUSE OF A. FIRMIN DIDOT,

                        RUE JACOB, No 24.

                           THE WORKS

                               OF

                            VOLTAIRE

              PREFACES, CAUTIONS, NOTES, ETC.

                        BY  M. BEUCHOT.

                        VOLUME XXXIII.

                       NOVELS.  VOLUME   I.

                            IN PARIS,

                       LEFÈVRE, BOOKSELLER,

         RUE DE L'ÉPERON, Ko 6.  WERDET ET LEQUIEN FILS,

                      RUE DU BATTOIR, No 20.

                           MDCCCXXIX.

                           MICROMEGAS,

                     PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY.

Publisher's preface.

Voltaire's lengthy correspondences do not contain anything that might indicate the period in
which Micromegas was published. The engraved title of the edition that I believe to be the
original displays no date. Abbot Trublet, in his Biography of Fontenelle, does not hesitate
to say that Micromegas is directed against Fontenelle; but does not speak of the date of publication.
I have therefore retained that given by the Kehl editions: 1752. However there is an edition
carrying the date of 1700. Is this date authentic? I would not make this claim; far from it.
I have therefore followed the Kehl editions, in which Micromegas is preceded by this warning:

This novel can be seen as an imitation of Gulliver's Travels. It contains many allusions. 
The dwarf of Saturn is Mr. Fontenelle. Despite his gentleness, his carefulness, his philosophy,
all of which should endear him to Mr. Voltaire, he is linked with the enemies of this great
man, and appears to share, if not in their hate, at least in their preemptive censures. He
was deeply hurt by the role he played in this novel, and perhaps even more so due to the justness,
though severe, of the critique; the strong praise given elsewhere in the novel only lends more
weight to the rebukes. The words that end this work do not soften the wounds, and the good
that is said of the secretary of the academy of Paris does not console Mr. Fontenelle for the
ridicule that is permitted to befall the one at the academy of Saturn.

The notes without signature, and those indicated by letters, are written by Voltaire.

The notes signed with a K have been written by the Kehl publishers, Mr. Condorcet and Mr. Decroix.
It is impossible to rigorously distinguish between the additions made by these two.

The additions that I have given to the notes of Voltaire or to the notes of the Kehl publishers,
are separated from the others by a --, and are, as they are mine, signed by the initial of my name.

BEUCHOT

October 4, 1829.

CONTENTS

   I.  Voyage of an inhabitant of the Sirius star to the planet Saturn.
  II.  Conversation between the inhabitant of Sirius and that of Saturn.
 III.  Voyage of the two inhabitants of Sirius and Saturn.
  IV.  What happened on planet Earth.
   V.  Experiments and reasonings of the two voyagers.
  VI.  What happened to them among men.
 VII.  Conversation with the men.

                           MICROMEGAS,

                     PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY

CHAPTER I.

Voyage of an inhabitant of the Sirius star to the planet Saturn.

On one of the planets that orbits the star named Sirius there lived a spirited young man, who
I had the honor of meeting on the last voyage he made to our little ant hill. He was called
Micromegas[1], a fitting name for anyone so great. He was eight leagues tall, or 24,000 geometric
paces of five feet each.

[1] From micros, small, and from megas, large.  B.

Certain geometers[2], always of use to the public, will immediately take up their pens, and
will find that since Mr. Micromegas, inhabitant of the country of Sirius, is 24,000 paces tall,
which is equivalent to 20,000 feet, and since we citizens of the earth are hardly five feet
tall, and our sphere 9,000 leagues around; they will find, I say, that it is absolutely necessary
that the sphere that produced him was 21,600,000 times greater in circumference than our little
Earth. Nothing in nature is simpler or more orderly. The sovereign states of Germany or Italy,
which one can traverse in a half hour, compared to the empires of Turkey, Moscow, or China,
are only feeble reflections of the prodigious differences that nature has placed in all beings.

[2] This is how the text reads in the first editions. Others, in place of "geometers," put
"algebraists."  B.

His excellency's size being as great as I have said, all our sculptors and all our painters
will agree without protest that his belt would have been 50,000 feet around, which gives him
very good proportions.[3] His nose taking up one third of his attractive face, and his attractive
face taking up one seventh of his attractive body, it must be admitted that the nose of the
Sirian is 6,333 feet plus a fraction; which is manifest.

[3] I restore this sentence in accordance with the first editions. B.

As for his mind, it is one of the most cultivated that we have. He knows many things. He invented
some of them. He was not even 250 years old when he studied, as is customary, at the most celebrated[4]
colleges of his planet, where he managed to figure out by pure willpower more than 50 of Euclid's
propositions. That makes 18 more than Blaise Pascal, who, after having figured out 32 while
screwing around, according to his sister's reports, later became a fairly mediocre geometer[5]
and a very bad metaphysician. Towards his 450th year, near the end of his infancy, he dissected
many small insects no more than 100 feet in diameter, which would evade ordinary microscopes.
He wrote a very curious book about this, and it gave him some income. The mufti of his country,
an extremely ignorant worrywart, found some suspicious, rash[6], disagreeable, and heretical
propositions in the book, smelled heresy, and pursued it vigorously; it was a matter of finding
out whether the substantial form of the fleas of Sirius were of the same nature as those of
the snails. Micromegas gave a spirited defense; he brought in some women to testify in his
favor; the trial lasted 220 years. Finally the mufti had the book condemned by jurisconsults
who had not read it, and the author was ordered not to appear in court for 800 years[7].

[4] In place of "the most celebrated" that one finds in the first edition, subsequent editions
read "some jesuit."  B.

[5] Pascal became a very great geometer, not in the same class as those that contributed to
the progress of science with great discoveries, like Descartes, Newton, but certainly ranked
among the geometers, whose works display a genius of the first order. K.

[6]  The edition that I believe to be original reads: "rash, smelling heresy." The present
text is dated 1756.  B.

[7] Mr. Voltaire had been persecuted by the theatin Boyer for having stated in his Letters
on the English that our souls develop at the same time as our organs, just like the souls of
animals.  K.

He was thereby dealt the minor affliction of being banished from a court that consisted of
nothing but harassment and pettiness. He wrote an amusing song at the expense of the mufti,
which the latter hardly noticed; and he took to voyaging from planet to planet in order to
develop his heart and mind[8], as the saying goes. Those that travel only by stage coach or
sedan will probably be surprised learn of the carriage of this vessel; for we, on our little
pile of mud, can only conceive of that to which we are accustomed. Our voyager was very familiar
with the laws of gravity and with all the other attractive and repulsive forces. He utilized
them so well that, whether with the help of a ray of sunlight or some comet, he jumped from
globe to globe like a bird vaulting itself from branch to branch. He quickly spanned the Milky
Way, and I am obliged to report that he never saw, throughout the stars it is made up of, the
beautiful empyrean sky that the vicar Derham[9] boasts of having seen at the other end of his
telescope. I do not claim that Mr. Derham has poor eyesight, God forbid! But Micromegas was
on site, which makes him a reliable witness, and I do not want to contradict anyone. Micromegas,
after having toured around, arrived at the planet Saturn. As accustomed as he was to seeing
new things, he could not, upon seeing the smallness of the planet and its inhabitants, stop
himself from smiling with the superiority that occasionally escapes the wisest of us. For in
the end Saturn is hardly nine times bigger than Earth, and the citizens of this country are
dwarfs, no more than a thousand fathoms tall, or somewhere around there. He and his men poked
fun at them at first, like Italian musicians laughing at the music of Lully when he comes to
France. But, as the Sirian had a good heart, he understood very quickly that a thinking being
is not necessarily ridiculous just because he is only 6,000 feet tall. He got to know the Saturnians
after their shock wore off. He built a strong friendship with the secretary of the academy
of Saturn, a spirited man who had not invented anything, to tell the truth, but who understood
the inventions of others very well, and who wrote some passable verses and carried out some
complicated calculations. I will report here, for the reader's satisfaction, a singular conversation
that Micromegas had with the secretary one day.

[8]  See my note, page 110.  B.  [this note, in Zadig, says: "This line is mostly written at
the expense of Rollin, who often employs these expressions in his Treatise on Studies. Voltaire
returns to it often: see, in the present volume, chapter I of Micromegas, and in volume XXXIV,
chapter XI of The Man of Forty Crowns, chapter IX of The White Bull and volume XI, the second
verse of song VIII of The Young Virgin.  B."]

[9] English savant, author of Astro-Theology, and several other works that seek to prove the
existence of God through detailing the wonders of nature: unfortunately he and his imitators
are often mistaken in their explanation of these wonders; they rave about the wisdom that is
revealed in a phenomenon, but one soon discovers that the phenomenon is completely different
than they supposed; so it is only their own fabrications that give them this impression of
wisdom. This fault, common to all works of its type, discredited them. One knows too far in
advance that the author will end up admiring whatever he has chosen to discuss.

CHAPTER II.

Conversation between the inhabitant of Sirius and that of Saturn.

After his excellency laid himself down to rest the secretary approached him.

"You have to admit," said Micromegas, "that nature is extremely varied."

"Yes," said the Saturnian, "nature is like a flower bed wherein the flowers--"

"Ugh!" said the other, "leave off with flower beds."

The secretary began again. "Nature is like an assembly of blonde and brown-haired girls whose
jewels--"

"What am I supposed to do with your brown-haired girls?" said the other.

"Then she is like a gallery of paintings whose features--"

"Certainly not!" said the voyager. "I say again that nature is like nature. Why bother looking
for comparisons?"

"To please you," replied the Secretary.

"I do not want to be pleased," answered the voyager. "I want to be taught. Tell me how many
senses the men of your planet have."

