Transcriber's Note

The spelling, grammar and punctuation in this ebook are variable and unusual. These oddities
have been preserved to match the original 1807 document.

A few minor corrections have been made where typographical errors were suspected. Details of
these changes can be found in a Transcriber's Note at the end of this text.

THE

ADVENTURES

OF A

SQUIRREL,

SUPPOSED TO BE

RELATED BY HIMSELF.

London:

PRINTED BY AND FOR DARTON AND HARVEY GRACECHURCH-STREET.

1807. Price Sixpence.

PREFACE.

To MISS ANNE S*****.

My dear Anne,

When I was upon a visit at your good mamma's, I promised to make you a present. Now a present
for a girl of your age (if I only considered your age) is easy enough to find; but when I think
on your good sense, I cannot reconcile myself to buy for you what I otherwise should. Not to
keep you in suspense, I have at last found out a present, which I hope will be agreeable to
you. Attend to the following adventure: I was walking, about a week ago, in the fields adjoining
my house at Croydon. The evening was so delightful, I wandered insensibly much farther than
I at first intended to go. The prospect was so charming, and the hay smelt so agreeably, that
I never thought of returning, till I found myself rather tired, so sat down by one of the haycocks
to rest myself. After having sufficiently rested, I made the best of my way towards home; when,
(guess my surprise!) putting my hand in my pocket, I felt something soft, which seemed as if
it moved, and pulling it out, I found it to be as pretty a Squirrel as you would wish to see.
He ran round the table several times, and giving a good spring, seated himself on the dumb
waiter. I immediately said to one of my servants: "I wonder how this squirrel got in my pocket,"
when my surprise was greatly increased by hearing it say, "If you will use me kindly, I will
relate my history, and then you will learn what made me get into your pocket." My dear Anne
immediately came in my mind, for I thought nothing would be more agreeable to her than, "The
Adventures of a Squirrel, related by himself." "Come and sit nearer to me," said I, "that I
may hear better all you are going to relate." After having seated himself once more, he began
as follows.

ADVENTURES

OF A

SQUIRREL, &c.

CHAPTER I.

I was born in Caen Wood, near Hampstead. Being taken out of the nest, (in which were my mother
and my brother,) very young, I shall begin by telling you, I was carried to the house of him
that stole me, which was at Hackney. Here I was tied to a long pole, till he could procure
a cage, which was not till the end of three weeks; when (what he termed) a very nice one came
home, with a chain to fasten round my neck, with a padlock, when I came out of the cage. The
chain he fastened on me directly, and it remained on, till my house was properly aired. When
he thought I might with safety enter my house, he took off the chain, and carried me, exulting
in his prize, to his sister; for he had kept me quite secure, till he could present me to her
politely. She thanked him for his kind present, and then proposed making a trial of my abilities
in the exercising way. You, perhaps, may wonder what this exercise was. My cage was made to
go round upon wires, so that whenever I moved it went round, and caused a tinkling with some
bells that were fixed for that purpose. At this exercise I remained nearly half an hour, and
whenever I attempted to stand still, they pricked me with a pin. Luckily the dinner bell rang,
or they might have kept me at it half an hour more.

I will now give you some account of my master and his family. His name was Thomas Howard, upon
the whole, I believe, a very good-natured boy. His sister's name was Sophia; and he had a father
and mother. While my master and the family were at dinner, I made the best use of my time,
and devoured every thing that I found in my cage. Having finished my repast, I was alarmed
at hearing the voice of Thomas, (whom I wished at York,) bawling to his sister, "Shall I bring
him down;" and still more alarmed by hearing her squeaking voice (which I wished at Dover)
pronounce, "Yes." I sat in my cage trembling, every minute expecting to be taken down and exercised;
but was relieved by hearing Tom fall almost from the top of the stairs to the bottom. In a
minute the whole house was in an uproar. Mr. and Mrs. Howard came running out: she applied
the hartshorn to his nose and temples; the servants were running some one way, some another.
Sophia, too, was not silent. At last, when poor Thomas was lifted up, and his wounds examined,
there was nothing found but a great bump on the back part of his head; which, when he found
out, he gave a loud laugh, and ran up stairs as fast as he did before. Now I was more alarmed
than ever, imagining that, as he had fell down in coming to fetch me, he might look upon me
as the cause of his fall, and might therefore use me with greater violence. When he came up,
he took me in my cage into the parlour. Here I had an opportunity of seeing the company: at
the top sat Mrs. Howard; on her right hand Miss Sophia Howard; next to her sat Tom Wilkins,
one of Tom Howard's schoolfellows; at the bottom sat Mr. Howard, next to him Miss Eliza Wilkins,
and next to her Tom Howard. I was now made to exercise again, for the amusement of the company;
who, in return, very generously gave me cherries, and any other nice thing I chose to eat.
At last they ventured to let me out, and Tom Howard forgot to put my chain on. The love of
liberty being too strong in me, I jumped off the table without farther ceremoney. All the company
rose up, (which, by the bye, had they not done, they might have caught me much sooner than
they did,) and ran after me. The room not being quite wide enough to admit so many as tried
to pass by the table at once, Eliza Wilkins tumbled and tripped up Tom Howard, who was behind
her, and could not stop himself. Sophia was very near down, but saved herself at the expence
of young Wilkins, whose waistcoat she caught hold of, by which he fell on young Howard and
Eliza. While they were in this confusion, I jumped upon a pier-glass which hung in the room,
where I sat all the time. When they had all scrambled up they began to look for me again, but
in a more cautious manner than they had done before. At last Wilkins spied me, and winked at
young Howard, who, mounting the table which stood under the glass, made me once more his prisoner.
I was then put into my cage and exercised, but presently taken out again, and my chain fastened
on, to hinder my escape if I attempted it a second time. Mr. Howard told Tom that he was sure,
by having me out so soon after my fright, I should certainly get loose; however, Tom began
to play with me, till a lucky accident put an end to his joy, and gave me my liberty. A nice
plate of apples was placed between young Howard and Wilkins. Now there happened to be one among
them much finer than the rest; on this apple they had both fixed their eyes, and both tried
which could finish eating what they had begun, that they might take the fine one, which had
so charmed them only by looking at it. But Miss Wilkins, who had likewise seen it, and most
likely longed for it as much as they did, asked her brother to hand her the plate. He seized,
(or tried to seize, for Howard was as quick as he,) the favourite apple, and a skirmish ensued;
in which glorious skirmish I was knocked off the table. The maid coming in at the very moment,
I ran down stairs and out at the street door, where the milkman was standing; which was, I
suppose, the reason the maid came up stairs. I continued running as fast as I could, (for my
chain sadly hindered me,) till I came to some fields, where I climbed a tree and stayed in
it all night.

CHAPTER II.

When night came I found myself very hungry, so ventured to come down. My chain rattling at
my heels, hindered me from running; but, however I got, on a good way, when I felt myself stopped,
and found I was entangled in a gooseberry bush, in a very handsome garden. Fortunately, the
owner used to walk in it every morning before breakfast; I saw her pass me once or twice, (for
I waited very patiently till morning,) but one time, as she was walking by, I made an effort
to get loose, which made her turn, and perceiving me, she called her servant to extricate me.
She then carried me into the parlour, and put me into a cage; not such a one as I had inhabited
before, it was a very nice one, without any bells. In the parlour was a young lady about fourteen
years old; between whom and the lady I heard the following dialogue.

Niece. Dear, aunt! what have you got another squirrel? What a pretty one it is! where did you
get it?

Aunt. I found it in the garden, entangled in a bush. If I had not been walking in the garden,
very likely he might have died. I should have been very sorry to have found him dead.

Niece. How fortunate this is: but I cannot help pitying poor Tom--what a pretty fellow he was,
and how sad a death it was to be devoured by the cat. I think he was the prettiest squirrel
I ever saw.

Aunt. Well, now really, I think this much prettier. Poor fellow! how he trembles.

Niece. What a pretty chain. I dare say some young lady has lost him, by his having such a nice
chain.

Aunt. Well, then all we have to do, is to feed him well, and, if we find the owner, return him.

Niece. I hope we may never find out who it belongs to.

Aunt. You should not say so, my dear. Now suppose, Nancy, you had a squirrel and it ran away
from you, how should you like never to see it again? and should not you think it wrong, if
any body had found it, and knew who it belonged to, and would not return it? To be sure you would.

Niece. True, madam, but I did not think of that. But Aunt, very likely he is hungry: shall
I get him something to eat?

Aunt. Do, my love.--Nancy then ran, but presently returned with a nice mess of bread and milk,
which I eat very heartily. She then put some clean hay, and a handful of nuts into my cage.
A knock at the door called off the attention of Nancy, and presently entered two young ladies
and a young gentleman. One of the young ladies was Miss Fanny Hudson; the other was Miss Kitty
Bell; and the young gentleman, Master Henry Hudson, brother to Fanny. As soon as they entered
the room, they paid the usual compliments to Mrs. Greville, (which was the name of the good
lady who found me,) but had their eye upon me all the time. The following discourse I can pretty
well remember, as it began concerning me; and we usually listen with greater attention when
the conversation is concerning ourselves.

Fanny. What a pretty squirrel you have got, Miss Greville: what is become of the other?

Nancy. Oh dear, Fanny! if I have not told you, you have a dreadful piece of news to hear. Oh
dear! how my heart did jump up and down for two hours after it. The cat had no dinner on Thursday.
I was playing with my squirrel, when the maid entered the room, and did not see the cat till
my poor Tom was in her mouth; and what was almost as bad, I flung my work-bag at her in a rage,
it caught in the lock of the door, and tore this large hole in it. I was so vexed.

Kitty. Enough to make you vexed, indeed. But you seem to have got a squirrel just as pretty
as Tom was.

Nancy. And we got it in the oddest manner. My aunt was walking in the garden, and found it,
with its chain on, entangled in the bushes.

