Read, however, rather than linger, pushed on again May 30th, in the midst of the celebration
for his triumph on the last leg of his course to Plymouth, seven hundred and seventy-five nautical
miles. Engine trouble, the first since the machine had left Chatham, developed, and at the
end of two hours he was forced to land at the mouth of the Mondego River, about a hundred miles
on his way. The trouble was a water leak. It was quickly repaired, and he started again, but
decided to put up at Ferrol, Spain, two hundred miles farther on the course, for the night.

Early in the morning of May 31st Commander Read started from Ferrol for Plymouth, and at the
end of seven hours and six minutes of flight came down in the harbor, where a warm reception
was waiting for him. The actual flying time since leaving the Rockaway Naval Air Station was
fifty-seven hours and sixteen minutes, and the average rate of flight was at a speed of sixty-eight
nautical miles an hour.

VII

LANDING-FIELDS--THE IMMEDIATE NEED

The immediate need, to establish aviation throughout the entire country, is a series of landing-fields
from the Atlantic to the Pacific coast. These landing-fields should not be designed primarily
for transcontinental flying-stations, but for city-to-city flying. There is going to be a great
amount of aerial traffic from New York to San Francisco, to be sure, but the future of flying
is in the linking up of cities a few hundred miles apart. The War Department has already taken
steps, and will establish thirty-two fields in the country to encourage flying. Many more are
needed.

Atlantic City is apparently the pioneer air port of the country, and for many reasons this
is natural. There are political and social advantages which make Atlantic City ideal. Rules
have been laid down for the coming and going of airships, and a field for land machines and
water space for seaplanes have been laid out. A large aeronautical convention has already been
held there.

Every city in the United States will have a landing-field and hangars for airplanes, as well
as mechanics to care for them. Whether this is to be a private or public enterprise lies in
the hands of the people handling such things. Much could be said for either type of establishment.
The thing must come; it is as logical as one, two, three. There are some, perhaps, who remember
the roars of derision which went up when the first automobile garage was established in their
town. Such a thing was visionary-there would never be enough machines to make it pay!

There are many reasons why it is impossible to consider the use of city roofs, for the present,
as suitable landing-places for airplanes. In fact, the first successful landing on a roof made
by Jules Vedrines last January was hailed as a feat of almost unparalleled daring. He flew
and landed on the roof of the Galeries Lafayette in Paris, and won a prize of $5,000 for doing
it. The police of Paris refused to allow him to fly off the roof, and he was compelled to take
his machine apart and lower it in an elevator.

The theory of flight, the laws which make it possible apparently to defy all laws of gravitation,
make it impossible for us to depend on the roofs of buildings in large cities and landing-places.
It will be a long time before the dreams of men who would establish landing-places on hotel
roofs can come true. The progress of aeronautical development has been great enough so that
there is no need to overemphasize it--to set ridiculous tasks which cannot be accomplished.

We shall not see the business man flying to his office in the city from his country estate--unless
some landing-field is built on the lower end of Manhattan Island as has been proposed. The
Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York has taken up the matter of legislation to make
landing-fields possible, and it must go through. The business man ought, in the near future,
to be able to use the airplane for quick trips to Albany. It would save hours over rail time,
and here the airplane has a wonderful field of usefulness.

Airplanes have made the trip from Washington to New York in very quick time, only to have to
go on to Mineola to land on the airdrome there. It takes nearly an hour to come in from Mineola,
but even at that the saving of time is still considerable. The speed and efficiency of airplane
travel to and from New York and other cities is materially affected by the lack of landing-fields
close to the business section of the city.

There must be a large field, broad in every dimension, to permit the landing and taking-off
of airplanes. A machine must get up flying speed running across the ground before it gets into
the air. The flying speed varies with the type of machine, and it may be estimated that most
machines take-off and land at a speed of from forty-five to sixty miles an hour. The air must
be passing through their planes at this speed before they will begin to fly, and it takes a
little run to get up flying speed. Similarly, when an airplane lands, it must lose its flying
speed gradually. It may glide to within a few feet of the ground, and then "flatten out" just
off the ground and run along until it loses its speed, the air no longer passes over its planes
fast enough to support it, and it drops to the ground.

Such are the limitations which the necessity for speed in airplane flight imposes. Compare
the paper dart flying through the air. As long as it moves quickly it will fly. Or a kite,
that will fly when the wind is strong enough. The airplane creates its own wind to support itself.

There are four forces acting on an airplane in flight, and they must be properly overcome and
balanced. There is lift, the upward force exerted on the planes by the passage of air over
their surfaces; and drift, the resistance to the passing of an airplane, the retarding force
acting opposite to the direction of motion. Then thrust, the forward effort of a machine exerted
by a propeller pushing or pulling. And finally gravity.

The primary conditions of flight are that lift made by the planes shall be equal to the force
of gravity, and that the forward thrust must be equal to the drift. At that point a machine
will sustain flight--a fairly simple thing on paper. But the times that machines have stalled
in the air, with their motors full on because their pilots have failed to sustain flight, have
let the force of gravity overcome lift, are too numerous to mention.

That dart, if pointed at a proper angle and let loose, will fly; its lift will overcome the
force of gravity, even though it has no motive power of its own. An airplane without an engine
could be pushed off the Palisades at flying speed, and a skilful pilot could bring it to a
reasonably safe landing at the foot. Flight does depend on motion, but motion does not depend
on motive power. Given a sufficiently high altitude, the mere act of dropping through the air
creates motion, and this motion will sustain flight.

An airplane is in no particular danger in the air if the motor stops--provided it is in an
open stretch of country with plenty of fields. Instinctively the pilot will nose down and glide,
and on that glide he will find himself maintaining flying speed. He can turn and maneuver his
machine, and pick out almost any field near at hand. The only limitations are that he cannot
glide more than five times his height, and when he comes down to the ground he must stop gliding
and land. He must land on anything that presents itself, a field if he has good judgment; if
not, then a barn or swamp or woods. He must land when the end of his glide brings him to the
ground.

This is commonly termed a "forced landing," and in every sense of the word it is one. There
is no pilot of any extensive flying experience who has not had to make a forced landing. Ninety
out of a hundred are perfectly orderly safe landings; the odd ones are occasionally crashes.
Incidentally it may be said that forced-landing practice by flying pupils is the most beneficial
which may be imagined. It teaches control over a machine as nothing else will. It may be carried
out from any height, shutting off the motor, picking out a field, gliding for it, turning and
twisting to get into proper position as regards the wind, and "giving her the gun" just at
the fence and flying on.

A forced landing over the country is safe, but over a city it is the most deadly thing imaginable.
For a machine caught with a "dud" engine over New York there is no escape but a terrific crash
in the city streets, against the side of some building, with danger to the pilot and the people
in the street below. There has been no motor made by the hand of man which would not let a
pilot down at some unexpected time. The instance of Major Woods, starting on his flight across
the Atlantic, and forced to come down to the Irish Sea is one example. The NC-4, American naval
seaplane, had a forced landing at sea, a hundred miles from Chatham, Massachusetts, on the
first leg of the Atlantic flight from this side. Its engines had been carefully cleaned and
tested, and yet they failed. Harry G. Hawker's engine failed him half-way from Newfoundland
to Ireland and let him down into the sea, from which he was picked up by the greatest good luck.

That is one of the most exasperating and human things about a gasolene-engine. It is efficient,
but not thoroughly dependable. The best of them are liable to break down at the most needed
moment, due to a hundred causes outside of the control of a mechanic or pilot. Care and rigid
inspection will reduce the possibilities, but engine failure cannot yet be eliminated.

That is one of the principal reasons why the roofs of buildings around big cities are so dangerous.
The sides of a building drop away from the roof. An error in judgment and the machine is over
the edge.

It is even more dangerous to take-off. An airplane motor is ten times as likely to develop
a weakness while it is cold. A motor starting a flight is never well warmed up, and fifty feet
from the edge of the roof it may give out, with awful consequences. As a practicable thing,
roofs are at present impossible. There is not a flying-officer in the world who will not agree.

An interesting series of experiments has been carried out in England on what has been known
as the helicopter machine. This machine is not dependent upon speed to fly, but merely on engine
power applied through a propeller of great pitch. The idea is not new, but is along the lines
specified by Orville Wright when he said that a kitchen table could fly if it had a good enough
engine.

The effort is being made to make a machine which can hover, can hold itself in the air by brute
force of its propeller blades beating the air. The thing sounds impossible to adapt, say some
aeronautical engineers. Those who have seen the experiments, however, express great optimism.

A machine of this sort would land and take-off in a very small space, and might be adapted
to use around cities. It might even make flying over cities safe but for the human equation
of the engine again. This machine is dependent on engine power. Apparently there would be two
engines, or two driving mechanisms, one operating the lifting propeller and the other the pulling
propeller.

For the present the great need is for landing-fields as near the heart of most American cities
as possible. There should be quick transportation to the business section provided, as well
as hangars and mechanics. When that is done we may very well say that aerial transportation
for passengers and freight is an accomplished fact.

VIII

THE AIRPLANE'S BROTHER

At the end of 108 hours and 12 minutes of sustained flight, more than four days, the British
dirigible R-34 swung into Roosevelt Field, came to anchor, and finished the first flight of
the Atlantic by a lighter-than-air airship. To the wondering throngs which went down Long Island
to see her huge gray bulk swinging lazily in the wind, with men clinging in bunches, like centipedes,
to her anchor ropes, and her red, white, and blue-tipped rudder turning idly, she was more
than a great big balloon, but a forerunner of times to come. She had come to us, a pioneer
over the sea lanes which are to be thronged with the swift dirigibles of the future plying
their easy way from America to Europe.

The performance of the R-34, undertaken in the line of duty, has eclipsed all the previous
records made by dirigibles and is, in fact, a promise of bigger things to come. There was that
Zeppelin, which cruised for four days and nights down into German East Africa and out again,
carrying twenty-five tons of ammunition and medicine for the Germans who were surrounded and
obliged to surrender before help arrived.

The R-34 started from East Fortune, Scotland, on Wednesday, July 2, 1919, at 2.48 o'clock in
the morning, British summer time, and arrived, after an adventurous voyage, at Mineola, Sunday,
July 6, at 9.54 A.M., American summer time. She had clear sailing until she hit the lower part
of Nova Scotia on Saturday. Electrical storms, which the dirigible rode out, and also heavy
head winds, kept her from making any progress, and used up the gasolene. About noon of Saturday
the gasolene situation became acute, and Major G.H. Scott, her commander, sent a wireless message
to the United States Navy Department at Washington, asking for destroyers to stand by in the
Bay of Fundy in case the gasolene should run short and the airship get out of control. Destroyers
were immediately despatched, but in the next few hours the weather improved, and the ship was
able to continue on her journey. It was feared, however, she might run out of fuel before reaching
Long Island, and mechanics were sent to Chatham and to Boston to pick her up in case of trouble.

The big ship surprised everybody by appearing over Long Island about nine o'clock Sunday morning.
The officer in charge of the landing party having gone to Boston, expecting her arrival there,
Major John Pritchard "stepped down" in a parachute from the airship, and, landing lightly,
took charge of the landing of the big machine.

An approaching cyclone, which would have made it almost impossible to handle the airship at
Mineola, was responsible for a rather hurried start back at midnight of Wednesday, July 9th.
She visited Broadway in the midst of the midnight glare, turned over Forty-second Street a
little after one o'clock in the morning, and put out to sea and her home airdrome. The voyage
back was mostly with favoring winds, and she landed at Pulham, the airship station in Norfolk,
after 75 hours and 3 minutes of flight. The voyage back was practically without incident except
for the failure of one engine, which in no way held back the airship. She was turned off her
course to East Fortune by reports that there were storms and head winds which might hold her
back in case she kept on her way.

The voyage was probably the most significant in the history of flying. It brought home to the
public the possibilities of the airship for ocean commerce as nothing else could have done.
The ship remained in the air longer than any previous airship, and pointed the way clear to
commercial flying. It is, in fact, only considered a matter of time before companies are started
to carry passengers and mails across the Atlantic at a price that would offer serious competition
to the fastest steamships.

The airship has been very much neglected by popular favor. Its physical clumsiness, its lack
of sporting competition in comparison with the airplane which must fight to keep itself up
in the air, its lack of romance as contrasted with that of the airplane in war, have all tended
to cast somewhat of a shadow over the lighter-than-air vessel and cause the public to pass
it by without interest. It is a very real fact, therefore, that very few people realize either
the services of the airship in the war or its possibilities for the future.

During the war the airship was invaluable in the ceaseless vigil for the submarine. England
early stretched a cordon of airship guards all about her coasts and crippled the U-boats' work
thereby. The airship had a greater range of vision and a better downward view than any sea-vessel;
it could travel more slowly, watch more closely, stay out much longer, than any other vessel
of the air. The British credit their airships with several successful attacks on submarines,
but they give them a far greater place in causing a fear among the under-sea boats which drove
them beneath the surface and greatly limited their efficiency.

The German Zeppelins, on the other hand, stand out in public imagination as a failure in the
war, especially because the British shortly established an airplane barrage which proved to
be their masters. This view is correct only in so far as it applies to interior raiding, for
which, indeed, the Zeppelin was not designed. How untrue it is of the Zeppelin as the outpost
for the German fleet British officers will readily admit. Indeed, they credit them with the
escape of the German fleet at Jutland, one of the deepest regrets in British naval history.
As eyes for the German fleet in the North Sea, the Zeppelins, with their great cruising range
and power of endurance, proved almost invaluable.

Airships have, then, behind them a rich heritage and before them a bright future. Much work
that the airplane can do they cannot do; while, on the other hand, much work that they can
do the airplane cannot. The two services are essentially different and yet essentially complementary.
Between them they offer nearly every facility and method of travel in the air which could be
desired. Each must be equally developed in order to increase the efficiency and the value of
the other.

The great difference, of course, between the airplane and the airship is that the former sustains
itself as a heavier-than-air vessel by the lifting power of the air in relation to a body driven
hard against it by its powerful engines, while the latter sustains itself as a lighter-than-air
body because of the large amount of air displaced by a huge envelop loaded with gas much lighter
than the air itself. The contrast is obvious; one vessel is small, agile, and very fast; the
other is slow and clumsy. The airship cannot attain anything like the speed of the airplane,
nor can it go so high or maneuver so quickly, but on the other hand, at least for the immediate
present, it can stay afloat very much longer and carry much greater weight.

Moreover, the airship has certain other easily perceptible advantages over the airplane. Ordinarily
an airship need not fly at much more than a thousand feet, which not only makes far less cold
traveling than at higher altitudes, but also allows the passengers to enjoy the view far better
than from an airplane, whence the world below looks like a dull contour map. An airship also
flies on an even keel; it does not bank as an airplane does nor does it climb or descend so
quickly.

At present airship travel gives a greater feeling of comfort and security. Sleeping is a calm
experience; moving about comparatively simple. Also there is less noise than in an airplane
where the engines beat incessantly and the wind rushes through the wires and struts. An airship
has no wires and can at the same time slow down and even shut off its engine, so that it need
be no more noisy than a motor-car. Engine failure also is not so serious as in an airplane,
for the gas-bag will always keep the ship up until there has been a chance for repairs.

Up to the present, too, the airship is less of a fair-weather flier than the airplane. A surprising
record has been attained in the war by British airships, as is shown by the fact that in 1918,
a year of execrable weather, there where only nine days during which their vessels were not
up. This is, of course, in considerable contrast to airplanes as at present developed, but
it may reasonably be expected that the latter will very soon develop to the same point of independence
of the weather.

Of course, the great difficulty of airships has been their ungainly size and the difficulty
of housing them. The sheds, particularly those for the Zeppelins, have been most costly, but
the British have recently developed a system of mooring masts which make much of this expense
unnecessary. If such a device can be successfully put into every-day use it will enormously
increase the ease of loading and unloading passengers, which now makes for considerable discomfort
and loss of time.

Some of the plans for future airships are unbelievable to one who has not followed their development
carefully. Already there is planned in England a monster ship known as the "ten million," for
the reason that it will have a gas capacity of ten million cubic feet, over four times that
of the largest Zeppelin. The length is placed at 1,100 feet, the speed at 95 miles an hour,
the cruising range 20,000 miles, and the cost at about $1,000,000. As a matter of actual practice,
however, the best division of the space and lifting power of this airship would be for it to
carry a crew of about 20, a useful load of 200 passengers or 150 tons of merchandise, and 50
tons of petrol, which would give it a non-stop run of about 5,000 miles.

Airship travel would undoubtedly be expensive. The gas alone to maintain such a vessel as described
is expected to cost about $30 an hour, which, added to the original investment for the ship
and its house and the wages of the crew and the 200 or more skilled men at each station, would
come up to a high figure. At the same time, the airship would not afford the element of very
high speed which is so certain to justify any expense which may have to be put into the airplane.
Nevertheless, with the improvements that are sure to come, with the ability to reach places
not touched by other methods of travel, the freedom from all the delays, inconveniences, and
expense of trans-shipment, this preliminary charge will be largely compensated for.

Those who sponsor the airship urge that it will be used almost exclusively for long-distance
flights beyond the range of the ordinary airplane and very little for short local flights.
For transatlantic travel, for instance, it is being particularly pressed, as ships even of
to-day have all the capacity for such a voyage, without the dangers which might surround an
airplane if its sustaining engine power were to give out.

