We turn to His Life. We leave M. Renan's little novel, and turn to the Godlike life of the
typal Man, the Omnipotent and Eternal Man, who redeemed humanity, and bought the world, and
conquered hell and death: we turn to that life, that death, that awful resurrection, and take
heart and hope. No mere amiable, sentimental, 'beautiful,' or 'charming' young man will do.
The world cries for its Lord! The race He ransomed looks to the 'Lion of Judah,' the 'Captain
of the Lord's Host.' The mad, half-despairing struggle we have waged all these long centuries,
can find only in 'the Son of Man,' in the omnipotent 'Son of God,' its explanation and its
end: 'God was manifest in the Flesh, reconciling the World unto Himself!'

ÆNONE:

A TALE OF SLAVE LIFE IN ROME.

CHAPTER VII.

For an instant only. When from Ænone's troubled gaze, the half-blinding film which the agitation
of her apprehensive mind had gathered there, passed away, she no longer saw before her a proudly
erect figure, flashing out from dark, wild eyes its defiant mastery, but a form again bent
low in timorous supplication, and features once more overspread with a mingled imprint of sorrowful
resignation, trusting devotion, and pleading humility.

That gleam of malicious triumph which had so brightened up the face of the slave, had come
and gone like the lightning flash, and, for the moment, Ænone was almost inclined to believe
that it was some bewildering waking dream. But her instinct told her that it was no mere imagination
or fancy which could thus, at one instant, fill the heart with dread and change her bright
anticipations of coming joy into a dull, aching foreboding of misery. It was rather her inner
nature warning her not to be too easily ensnared, but to wait for coming evil with unfaltering
watchfulness, and, for the purpose of baffling enmity, to perform the hardest task that can
be imposed upon a guileless nature--that of repressing all outward sign of distrust, hiding
the torture of the heart within, and meeting smile with smile.

But day after day passed on, and even to her watchful and strained attention there appeared
no further sign of anything that could excite alarm. From morning until night there rested
upon the face of the young Greek slave no expression other than that of tender, faithful, and
pleased obedience. At the morning toilet, at the forenoon task of embroidery, or at the afternoon
promenade, there was ever the same serene gaze of earnest devotion, and the same delighted
alacrity to anticipate the slightest wish. Until at last Ænone began again to think that perhaps
her perception of that one fleeting look might, after all, be but a flickering dream. And when,
at times, she sat and heard the young girl speak, not with apparent method, but rather as one
who is unwittingly drawn into discursive prattle, about her cottage home in Samos, and the
lowly lover from whom the invading armies had torn her, and watched the moistened eye and the
trembling lip with which these memories were dwelt upon, an inward pity and sympathy tempted
her to forget her own distrust; until one day she was impelled to act as she had once desired,
and began to pour out her whole heart to the young slave as to a friend. The words seemed of
themselves to flow to her lips, as, bidding the girl be comforted, she told, in one short sentence,
how she too had once lived in a tranquil cottage home, away from the bustle and fever of that
imperial Rome, and had had her lover of low degree, and that both were still innocently dear
to her.

All the while that the story had been welling forth from her lips, that inner instinct which
so seldom deceives, told her that she was doing wrong; and when she had ended, she would have
given worlds not to have spoken. But the words were beyond recall, and she could only gaze
stealthily at the listener, and, with a dull feeling of apprehension nestling at the bottom
of her heart, endeavor to mark their effect, and to imagine the possible consequences of her
indiscretion. But Leta sat bending over her embroidery, and apparently still thinking, with
tearful eye, upon her own exile from home. Perhaps she had not even heard all that had been
said to her; though, if the words had really caught her ear, where, after all, could be the
harm? It was no secret in Rome that Sergius Vanno had brought his spouse from a lowly home;
and it was surely no crime, that, during those years of poverty which Ænone had passed through
before being called to fill her present station, she had once suffered her girlish fancy to
rest for a little while upon one of her own class. And fortunately she had not gone further
in her story, but at that point had left it to rest; making no mention of how that long-forgotten
lover had so lately reappeared and confronted her.

Still there remained in her heart the irrepressible instinct that it would have been better
if she had not spoken. And now, as she silently pondered upon her imprudence, it seemed as
though her anxiety had suddenly endowed her brain with new and keener faculties of perception,
so many startling ideas began to crowd in upon her. More particularly, full shape and tone
seemed for the first time given to one terrible suspicion, which she had hitherto known only
in a misty, intangible, and seldom recurring form--the suspicion that, if the passive girl
before her were really an enemy, it was not owing to any mere ordinary impulse of fear, or
envy, or inexplicable womanish dislike, but rather to secret rivalry.

That, within the past few days, Sergius had more and more exhibited toward her an indifference,
which even his studied attempts to conduct himself with an appearance of his former interest
and affection did not fully hide, Ænone could not but feel. That within her breast lurked the
terrible thought that perhaps the time had forever passed for her to come to him as to a loving
friend, and there fearlessly pour out her tribulations, her secret tears confessed. But throughout
all this change, though it became each day more strongly marked, she had tried to cheat herself
into the belief that the romantic warmth of a first attachment could not in any case be expected
to last for many years--that in meeting indifference she was merely experiencing a common lot--that
beneath his coolness there still lurked the old affection, as the lava will flow beneath the
hardened crust--and that, if she were indeed losing the appearance of his love, it was merely
because the claims of the court, the exigencies of the social world, or the demands of ambition
had too much usurped his attention.

But now a thousand hitherto unregarded circumstances began to creep into her mind as so many
evidences that his affection seemed passing from her; not simply because the claims of duty
or ambition were stifling in his heart all power to love, but because he had become secretly
attached elsewhere. The interested gaze with which he followed the motions of the Greek girl--the
solicitude which he seemed to feel that in all things she should be treated, not only tenderly,
but more luxuriously than ever fell to the lot of even the highest class of slaves--his newly
acquired habit of strolling into the room and throwing himself down where he could lazily watch
her--all these, and other circumstances, though individually trivial, could not fail, when
united, to give cogency to the one terrible conviction of secret wrong. Whether Leta herself
had any perception of all this, who could yet tell? It might be that she was clothed in innocent
unconsciousness of her master's admiration, or that, by the force of native purity, she had
resisted his advances. And, on the other hand, it might be that not merely now, but long before
she had been brought into the house, there had been a secret understanding between the two;
and that, with undeviating and unrelenting cunning, she was still ever drawing him still closer
within the folds of her fascinations. Looking upon her, and noting the humble and almost timorous
air with which she moved about, as though seeking kindness and protection, and the eloquence
of mute appeal for sympathy which lay half hidden in her dark eyes beneath the scarcely raised
lids, and rested in her trembling lips, who could doubt her? But marking the haughtiness of
pride with which at times she drew up her slight figure to its utmost height, the ray of scorn
and malice which flashed from those eyes, and the lines of firm, unpitying determination which
gathered about the compressed corners of those lips, who could help fearing and distrusting her?

Time or chance alone could resolve the question, and meanwhile, what course could Ænone take?
Not that of sending the object of her suspicion to another place; for even if she had the power
to do so, she might not be able to accomplish it without such open disturbance that the whole
social world of Rome would learn the degrading fact that she had been jealous of her own slave.
Not--as she was sometimes almost tempted--that of forgetting her pride, and humbling herself
before her enemy, to beg that she would not rob her of all that affection which had once been
lavished upon herself; for, if the Greek girl were innocent, useless and feeble pity would
be the only result, while, if she were guilty, it would but lead to further secret wiles and
malicious triumph. Nor that of accusing her husband of his fault; for such a course, alas!
could never restore lost love. There could, indeed, be but one proper way to act. She must
possess her soul in patience and prudent dissimulation; and, while affecting ignorance of what
she saw and heard, must strive by kindness and attention to win back some, if not all, of the
true affection of former days.

Thus sorrowfully reflecting, she left the room, not upon any especial intent, but simply to
avoid the presence of the Greek, who, she could not help feeling, was all the while, beneath
the disguise of that demure expression, closely watching her. Passing into another apartment,
she saw that Sergius had there sauntered in, and had thrown himself down upon a lounge at the
open window, where, with one hand resting behind his head, he lay half soothed into slumber
by the gentle murmur of the courtyard fountain. Stealing up gently behind him, with a strange
mingling of affectionate desire to gain his attention, and a morbid dread of bringing rebuke
upon herself by awakening him, Ænone stooped down and lightly touched his forehead with her lips.

'Ah, Leta!' he exclaimed, starting up as he felt the warm pressure. Then, perceiving his mistake,
he lowered his eyes with some confusion, and perhaps a slight feeling of disappointment, and
tried to force a careless laugh; which died away, however, as he saw how Ænone stood pale and
trembling at receiving a greeting so confirmatory of all her apprehensions.

'It is not Leta--it is only I,' she murmured at length, in a tone of plaintive sadness, which
for the moment touched his heart. 'I am sorry that I awakened you. But I will go away again.'

'Nay, remain,' he exclaimed, restraining her by the folds of her dress, and, with a slight
effort, seating her beside him upon the lounge. 'You are not--you must not feel offended at
such a poor jest as that?'

'Is it all a jest?' she inquired. 'Can you say that the greeting you gave me did not spring
inadvertently from the real preoccupation of your mind?'

'Of the mind? Preoccupation?' said Sergius. 'By the gods! but it is a difficult question to
answer. I might possibly, in some dreamy state, have been thinking carelessly of that Greek
girl whom you have so constantly about you. Even you cannot but acknowledge that she has her
traits of beauty; and if so, it is hard for a man not to admire them.'

'For mere admiration of her, I care but little,' she responded. 'But I would not that she should
learn to observe it. And what could I do, if she, perceiving it, were to succeed in drawing
your love from me? What then would there be for me to do, except to die?'

'To die? This is but foolish talk, Ænone,' he said; and he fastened an inquiring gaze upon
her, as though wishing to search into her soul, and find out how much of his actions she already
knew. Evidently some fleeting expression upon her countenance deceived him into believing that
she had heard or seen more than he had previously supposed, for, with another faint attempt
at a careless laugh, he continued:

'And if, at the most, there has been some senseless trifling between the girl and myself--a
pressure of the hand, or a pat upon the cheek, when meeting by any chance in hall or garden--would
you find such fault with this as to call it a withdrawal of my love from you? To what, indeed,
could such poor, foolish pastime of the moment amount, that it should bring rebuke upon me?'

To nothing, indeed, if judged by itself alone, for that was not the age of the world when every
trivial departure from correctness of conduct was looked upon as a crime; and had this been
all, and the real affection of his heart had remained with her, Ænone would have taken comfort.
But now she knew for certain that, in uncomplainingly enduring any familiarities, Leta could
not, at all times, have maintained her customary mien of timorous retirement, and must, therefore,
to some extent, have shown herself capable of acting a deceitful part; and that even though
the deceit may have stopped short of further transgression, it was none the less certain that
in future no further trust could be reposed in her. Gone forever was that frail hope to which,
against all warnings of instinct, Ænone had persisted in clinging--the hope that in the Greek
girl she might succeed in finding a true and honest friend.

Seeing that she remained absorbed and speechless, Sergius believed that she was merely jealously
pondering upon these trivial transgressions, and endeavored, by kind and loving expressions,
to remove the evil effects of his unguarded admission. Gathering her closer in his arms, he
strove once more, by exerting those fascinations which had hitherto so often prevailed, to
calm her disturbed fancies, and bring back again her confidence in him. But now he spoke almost
in vain. Conscious, as Ænone could not fail to be, of the apparent love and tenderness with
which he bent his eyes upon her, and of the liquid melody of his impassioned intonations, and
half inclined, as she felt, at each instant to yield to the impulse which tempted her to throw
her arms about his neck and promise from henceforth to believe unfalteringly all that he might
say, whatever opposing evidences might stand before her, there was all the while the restraining
feeling that this show of affection was but a pretence wherewith to quiet her inconvenient
reproaches--that at heart he was playing with deceit--that the husband was colluding with the
slave to blind her eyes--and that the love and friendship of both lord and menial had forever
failed her.

'But hold to your own suspicions, if you will,' he said, at length, with testy accent, as he
saw how little all his efforts had moved her. 'I have spoken in my defence all that I need
to speak, even if excuse were necessary; and it is an ill reward to receive only cold and forbidding
responses in return.'

'Answer me this,' she exclaimed, suddenly rousing into action, and looking him earnestly in
the face; 'and as you now answer, I will promise to believe you, for I know that, whatever
you may have done, you will not, if appealed to upon your honor, tell me that which is not
true. About the trivial actions which you have mentioned I care little; but is there in your
heart any real affection for that girl? If you say that there is not, I will never more distrust
you, but will go out from here with a soul overflowing with peace and joy as when first you
came to take me to your side. But if, on the contrary, you say that you love her, I will--'

'Will do what?' he exclaimed, seeing that she hesitated, and almost hoping that she would utter
some impatient threat which in turn would give him an excuse for anger.

'Will pass out from this room, sad and broken hearted, indeed--but not complaining of or chiding
you; and will only pray to the gods that they may, in their own time, make all things once
more go aright, and so restore your heart to me.'

Sergius hesitated. Never before had he been so tempted to utter an untruth. If he now did so,
he knew that he would be believed, and that not only would she be made once more happy, but
he would be left unwatched and unsuspected to carry on his own devices. But, on the other hand,
he had been appealed to upon his honor, and, whatever his other faults, he had too much nobility
of soul to lie. And so, not daring to confess the truth, he chose the middle path of refusing
any direct response at all.

'Now is not this a singular thing,' he exclaimed, 'that no man can ever let his eyes rest upon
a pretty face without being accused of love for it? While, if a woman does the same, no tongue
can describe the clamor with which she repels the insinuation of aught but friendly interest.
Can you look me in the eye and tell me that mine is the only voice you ever listened to with love?'

'Can you dare hint to me that I have ever been unfaithful to you, even in thought or word?'
cried Ænone, stung with sudden anger by the imputation, and rendered desperate by her acute
perception of the evasiveness of his answer. 'Do you not know that during the months which
you so lately passed far away from me, there was not one person admitted here into society
with me who would not have had your firm approval--and that I kept your image so lovingly before
my eyes, and your memory so constant in my heart, as to become almost a reproach and a sarcasm
to half who knew me?'

'But before that--before I came to you--can you say that no other eyes had ever looked lovingly
into yours, and there met kindred response?'

'Have you the right to inquire into what may have happened before you met me? What young girl
is there who, some time or other, has not modestly let her thoughts dwell upon innocent love?
Is there wrong in this? Should there have been a spirit of prescience in my mind to forewarn
me that I must keep my heart free and in vacant loneliness, because that, after many years,
you were to come and lift me from my obscurity?'

'Then, upon your own showing, you acknowledge that there was once another upon whom your eyes
loved to look?' he cried, half gladdened that he had found even this poor excuse to transfer
the charge of blame from himself. 'And how can I tell but that you have met with him since?'

'I have met him since,' she quietly answered, driven to desperation by the cruel insinuation.

In his heart attaching but little importance to such childish affections as she might once
have cherished, and having had no other purpose in his suggestion than that of shielding himself
from further inquiry by inflicting some trifling wound upon her, Sergius had spoken hesitatingly,
and with a shamefaced consciousness of meanness and self-contempt. But when he listened to
her frank admission--fraught, as it seemed to him, with more meaning than the mere naked words
would, of themselves, imply, an angry flush of new-born jealousy overspread his features.

'Ha! You have met him since?' he exclaimed. 'And when, and where? And who, then, is this fortunate
one?'

Ænone hesitated. Now, still more bitterly than ever before, she felt the sad consciousness
of being unable to pour out to her husband her more secret thoughts and feelings. If she could
have told, with perfect assurance of being believed, that in so lately meeting the man whom
she had once imagined she loved, she had looked upon him with no other feeling than the dread
of recognition, joined to a friendly and sisterly desire to procure his release from captivity
and his restoration to his own home, she would have done so. But she felt too well that the
once-aroused jealousy of her lord might now prevent him from reposing full and generous trust
and confidence in her--that he would be far more likely to interpret all her most innocent
actions wrongly, and to surround her with degrading espionage--and that, in the end, the innocent
captive would probably be subjected to the bitterest persecutions which spite and hatred could
invent.

'I have met him,' she said at length, 'but only by chance, and without being recognized or
spoken to by him. Nor do I know whether I shall ever chance to meet him again. Is this a crime?
Oh, my lord, what have I done that you should thus strive to set your face against me? Do you
not, in your secret soul, know and believe that there is no other smile than yours for which
I live, and that, without the love with which you once gladdened me, there can be no rest or
peace for me on earth? Tell me, then, that all this is but a cruel pleasantry to prove my heart,
and that there has nothing come between us--or else let me know the worst, in order that I
may die.'

Sliding down, until her knees touched the floor, and then winding one arm slowly about his
neck, she hid her face in his breast, and, bursting into tears, sobbed aloud. It was not merely
the reactionary breaking down of a nervous system strung to the highest point of undue excitement.
It was the half consciousness of a terrible fear lest the day might come in which, goaded by
injustice and neglect, she might learn no longer to love the man before her--the wail of a
stricken soul pleading that the one to whom her heart had bound her might not fail in his duty
to her, but, by a resumption of his former kindness and affection, might retain her steadfastly
in the path of love.

Touched by the spectacle of her strong agony--aroused for the moment to the true realization
of all the bitterness and baseness of his unkindness toward her--moved, perhaps, by memories
of that time when between them there was pleasant and endearing confidence, and when it was
not she who was obliged to plead for love--Sergius drew his arm more closely about her, and,
bending over, pressed his lips upon her forehead. If at that moment the opportunity had not
failed, who can tell what open and generous confessions might not have been uttered, unrestrained
forgiveness sealed, and future miseries prevented? But at the very moment when the words seemed
trembling upon his lips, the door softly opened, and Leta entered.

THE DOVE.

    Upon the 'pallid bust of Pallas' sat
    The Raven from the 'night's Plutonian shore;'
    His burning glance withered my wasting life,
    His ceaseless cry still tortured as before:
    'Lenore! Lenore! ah! never--nevermore!'

    The weary moments dragged their crimson sands
    Slow through the life-blood of my sinking heart.
    I counted not their flow; I only knew
    Time and Eternity were of one hue;
    That immortality were endless pain
    To one who the long lost could ne'er regain--
    There was no hope that Death would Love restore:
    'Lenore! Lenore! ah! never--nevermore!'

    Early one morn I left my sleepless couch,
    Seeking in change of place a change of pain.
    I leaned my head against the casement, where
    The rose she planted wreathed its clustering flowers.
    How could it bloom when she was in the grave?
    The birds were carolling on every spray,
    And every leaf glittered with perfumed dew;
    Nature was full of joy, but, wretched man!
    Does God indeed bless only birds and flowers?
    As thus I stood--the glowing morn without,
    Within, the Raven with its blighting cry,
    All light the world, all gloom the hopeless heart--
    I prayed in agony, if not in faith;
    Yet still my saddened heart refused to soar,
    And even summer winds the burden bore:
    'Lenore! Lenore! ah! never--nevermore!'

    With these wild accents ringing through my heart,
    There was no hope in prayer! Sadly I rose,
    Gazing on Nature with an envious eye,
    When, lo! a snowy Dove, weaving her rings
    In ever-lessening circles, near me came;
    With whirring sound of fluttering wings, she passed
    Into the cursed and stifling, haunted room,
    Where sat the Raven with his voice of doom--
    His ceaseless cry from the Plutonian shore:
    'Lenore! Lenore! ah! never--nevermore!'

    The waving of the whirring, snowy wings,
    Cooled the hot air, diffusing mystic calm.
    Again I shuddered as I marked the glare
    Which shot from the fell Raven's fiendish eye,
    The while he measured where his pall-like swoop
    Might seize the Dove as Death had seized Lenore:
    'Lenore!' he shrieked, 'ah, never--nevermore!'

    Hovered the Dove around an antique cross,
    Which long had stood afront the pallid bust
    Of haughty Pallas o'er my chamber door:
    Neglected it had been through all the storm
    Of maddening doubts born from the demon cry
    Reëchoing from the night's Plutonian shore:
    'Lenore! Lenore! ah! never--nevermore!'

    I loved all heathen, antique, classic lore,
    And thus the cross had paled before the brow
    Of Pallas, radiant type of Reason's power.
    But human reason fails in hours of woe,
    And wisdom's goddess ne'er reopes the grave.
    What knows chill Pallas of corruption's doom?
    Upon her massive, rounded, glittering brow
    The Bird of Doubt had chos'n a fitting place
    To knell into my heart forever more:
    'Ah I never, nevermore! Lenore! Lenore!'

    The Raven's plumage, in the kindling rays,
    Shone with metallic lustre, sombre fire;
    His fiendish eye, so blue, and fierce, and cold,
    Froze like th' hyena's when she tears the dead.
    The sculptured beauty of the marble brow
    Of Pallas glittered, as though diamond-strewn:
    Haughty and dazzling, yet no voice of peace,
    But words of dull negation darkly fell
    From Reason's goddess in her brilliant sheen!
    No secret bears she from the silent grave;
    She stands appalled before its dark abyss,
    And shudders at its gloom with all her lore,
    All powerless to ope its grass-grown door.
    Can Pallas e'er the loved and lost restore?
    Hear her wild Raven shriek: 'Lenore! no more!'

    With gloomy thoughts and thronging dreams oppressed,
    I sank upon the 'violet velvet chair,
    Which she shall press, ah, never, nevermore!'
    And gazed, I know not why, upon the cross,
    On which the Dove was resting its soft wings,
    Glowing and rosy in the morn's warm light.
    I cannot tell how long I dreaming lay,
    When (as from some old picture, shadowy forms
    Loom from a distant background as we gaze,
    So bright they gleam, so soft they melt away,
    We scarcely know whether 'tis fancy's play
    Or artist's skill that wins them to the day)
    There grew a band of angels on my sight,
    Wreathing in love around the slighted cross.
    One swung a censer, hung with bell-like flowers,
    Whence tones and perfumes mingling charmed the air;
    Thick clouds of incense veiled their shadowy forms,
    Yet could I see their wings of rainbow light,
    The wavings of their white arms, soft and bright.
    Then she who swung the censer nearer drew--
    The perfumed tones were silent--lowly bent
    (The long curls pouring gold adown the wings),
    She knelt in prayer before the crucifix.
    Her eyes were deep as midnight's mystic stars,
    Freighted with love they trembling gazed above,
    As pleading for some mortal's bitter pain:
    When answered--soft untwined the clasping hands,
    The bright wings furled--my heart stood still to hear
    'The footfalls tinkle on the tufted floor'--
    The eyes met mine--O God! my lost Lenore!
    Too deeply awed to clasp her to my heart,
    I knelt and gasped--'Lenore! my lost Lenore!
    Is there a home for Love beyond the skies?
    In pity answer!--shall we meet again?'
    Her eyes in rapture floated; solemn, calm,
    Then softest music from her lips of balm
    Fell, as she joined the angels in the air!
    Her words forever charmed away despair!

        'Above all pain,
        We meet again!

    'Kneel and worship humbly
      Round the slighted cross!
    Death is only seeming--
      Love is never loss!
    In the hour of sorrow
      Calmly look above!
    Trust the Holy Victim--
      Heaven is in His love!

    'Above all pain,
        We meet again!

    'Never heed the Raven--
      Doubt was born in hell!
    How can heathen Pallas
      Faith of Christian tell?
    With the faith of angels,
      Led by Holy Dove,
    Kneel and pray before Him--
      Heaven is in His love!

        'Above all pain,
        We meet again!'

    Then clouds of incense veiled the floating forms;
    I only saw the gleams of starry wings,
    The flash from lustrous eyes, the glittering hair,
    As chanting still the Sanctus of the skies,
    Clear o'er the Misereres of earth's graves,
    Enveloped in the mist of perfumed haze,
    In music's spell they faded from my gaze.
    Gone--gone the vision! from my sight it bore
    My lost, my found, my ever loved Lenore!

    Forgotten scenes of happy infant years,
    My mother's hymns around my cradle-bed,
    Memories of vesper bell and matin chimes,
    Of priests and incensed altars, dimly waked.
    The fierce eye of the Raven dimmed and quailed,
    His burnished plumage drooped, yet, full of hate,
    Began he still his 'wildering shriek--'Lenore!'
    When, lo! the Dove broke in upon his cry--
    She, too, had found a voice for agony;
    Calmly it fell from heaven's cerulean shore:
    'Lenore! Lenore! forever--evermore!'

    Soon as the Raven heard the silvery tones,
    Lulling as gush of mountain-cradled stream,
    With maddened plunge he fell to rise no more,
    And, in the sweep of his Plutonian wings,
    Dashed to the earth the bust of Pallas fair.
    The haughty brow lay humbled in the dust,
    O'ershadowed by the terror-woven wings
    Of that wild Raven, as by some dark pall.
    Lift up poor Pallas! bathe her fainting brow
    With drops of dewy chrism! take the beak
    Of the false Raven from her sinking soul!
    Oh, let the Faith Dove nestle in her heart,
    Her haughty reason low at Jesu's feet,
    While humble as a child she cons the lore:
    'The loved, the lost, forever--evermore!'

    As if to win me to the crucifix,
    The Dove would flutter there, then seek my breast.
    The heart must feel its utter orphanage,
    Before it makes the cross its dearest hope!
    I knelt before the holy martyred form,
    The perfect Victim given in perfect love,
    The highest symbol of the highest Power,
    Self-abnegation perfected in God!
    Circling the brow like diadem, there shone
    Each letter pierced with thorns and dyed in blood,
    Yet dazzling vision with the hopes of heaven:
    'I AM THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE!'
    Upon the outstretched hands, mangled and torn,
    I found that mighty truth the heart divines,
    Which strews our midnight thick with stars, solves doubts,
    And makes the chasm of the yawning grave
    The womb of higher life, in which the lost
    Are gently rocked into their angel forms--
    That truth of mystic rapture--'GOD IS LOVE!'

    Still chants the snowy DOVE from heaven's shore:
    'LENORE! LENORE! FOREVER! EVERMORE!'

THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND ITS PECULIARITIES.

Few of the people of the North have ever inquisitively considered the Mississippi River, and
as a consequence its numerous peculiarities are not generally known. Indeed, its only characteristic
features are supposed to be immensity of proportions rather than any specific variation from
the universal nature of rivers. Many there are that have never seen the river, and have conceptions
of its appearance merely in imagination; others have been more fortunate, have crossed its
turbid flood, or have been borne upon its noble bosom the full breadth of the land, from beautiful
Minnesota to its great reservoir in the South, the Gulf of Mexico. As the result of this experience,
great have been the sensations of satisfaction or disappointment. Many have turned away with
their extravagant anticipations materially chagrined. This might be expected in a casual observer.
It is true, some portions of the Mississippi do not present that vastness which a person would
very naturally expect, having previously accepted literally the figurative appellations that
have been applied to it. The Mississippi is not superficially a great stream, but when it is
recognized as the mighty conduit of the surplus waters of fifty large streams, some of which
are as large as itself, besides receiving innumerable of less pretensions--when we consider,
too, the great physical phenomena which it presents in its turbid waters, its islands, its
bars, and its bayous, its vast banks of alluvial deposit, its omnipotent force, and the signal
futility of all human endeavors to control it, in this phase is it truly the 'Father of Waters,'
and 'the most wonderful of rivers.'

In a commercial point of view is the Mississippi equally as remarkable as in its physical presentations.
It is the aorta through which, from the heart of the nation, flow the bountiful returns of
industrious and productive labor, which thus find an outlet to all parts of the world, opening
an avenue of trade for millions of energetic men and fertile acres. Thus not only is it the
life-supporting, but as well the life-imparting artery of a great section of the republic.

But it is unnecessary to speak of the commercial importance of the river. This is patent to
everybody. Let us, however, unfold some of its remarkable and singular phenomena, which have
never occurred to many, and may at this particular time be of interest to all, even those who
have given the subject some study. Let us first briefly glance at its history.

In 1539, Ferdinand de Soto, Governor of Cuba, leaving that island in charge of his wife, set
sail for Florida, where he soon safely disembarked, and sent his ships back, in order to leave
no opportunity for relentment in the stern resolves of his followers. After a somewhat erratic
journey, on his way passing through Georgia, Alabama, and Northern Mississippi, he struck the
'Great River' at the Lower Chickasaw Bluffs, as they are still called, and upon which now stands
the city of Memphis. The expedition crossed the river at that point, and spent some time in
exploring the country beyond, until they found themselves upon the White River, about two hundred
miles from its entrance into the Mississippi. From there a small expedition set out toward
the Missouri, but soon returned, bringing an unfavorable report. From the White the expedition
moved toward the hot springs and saline confluents of the Washita. In this neighborhood they
wintered. In the spring of 1542, De Soto and his followers descended the Washita in canoes,
but became entangled in the bayous and marshes of the Red River, to which the Washita, through
the Black, is tributary. At length, however, they reached the Mississippi. Here a number of
explorations were conducted, but with no success as regards the object of the expedition, a
search of gain. It was in the midst of these explorations, at the mouth of the Red, while surrounded
by the most implacable Indian hostility, a malignant fever seized the spirit and head of the
enterprise, and on May 21st, 1542, De Soto died. Amid the sorrows of the moment and fears of
the future, his body was wrapped in a mantle, and sunk in the middle of the river. A requiem
broke the midnight gloom, and the morning rose upon the consternation of the survivors. It
has indeed been aptly said, that De Soto 'sought for gold, but found nothing so great as his
burial place.'

The men now looked about them for a new leader. Their choice fell upon Luis de Moscoso. This
man was without enterprise or capacity. After enduring every calamity, the party built seven
brigantines, and in seventeen days, July, 1543, passed out of the mouth of the river, and followed
the coast toward the east. Out of six hundred, but few over three hundred ever returned to Cuba.

From the expedition of De Soto more than a century elapsed before any further discoveries were
made. In May, 1673, Marquette, a priest, and Jolliet, a trader, and five men, made some explorations
of the river.

The great work of discovery was reserved for Robert Cavelier de la Salle, a Frenchman. By his
commands, Father Louis Hennepin made the discovery of the Upper Mississippi, as far as the
Falls of St. Anthony. In January, 1682, La Salle himself, with twenty-three Frenchmen and eighteen
Indians, set out for the exploration of the Lower Mississippi, entering the river from the
Illinois, and descending it until he arrived at the Passes of the Delta. Here, to his surprise,
he found the river divided into three channels. A party was sent by each, La Salle taking the
western, and on April 9th the open sea was reached. The usual ceremonies attendant upon any
great discovery were repeated here.

Enlivened by success, the party returned to Quebec. La Salle returned to France, and in 1684,
aided by his Government, set sail with four vessels, for the discovery of the river from the
sea. In this he was unsuccessful. After encountering several storms and losing one of his vessels,
the expedition entered St. Louis Bay (St. Bernard) on the coast of Texas. The party disembarked,
one of the vessels returned to France, and the others were lost on the coast. Thus cut off,
La Salle made every effort to discover the river by land; but in every attempt he failed. At
length he was assassinated by one of his followers on the 19th of March, 1687. Thus terminated
the career of the explorer of the Mississippi.

The discovery of the mouth of the river from the sea, was an event of some years later, and
was consummated by Iberville, in 1699. This person spent some time in navigating the river
and the waters adjacent to its mouth. His brother, Bienville, succeeded him in these enterprises.
A few years later, and we find settlements springing up upon the banks of the river. Since
that time it has attracted a numerous population, and to-day, though desolated in parts by
the contentions of armies, there is certainty in the belief that at some time these people
of the great river will wield a mighty power in the political and commercial destiny of the
American continent.

The Mississippi proper rises in the State of Minnesota, about 47° and some minutes north latitude,
and 94° 54' longitude west, at an elevation of sixteen hundred and eighty feet above the level
of the Gulf of Mexico, and distant from it two thousand eight hundred and ninety-six miles,
its utmost length, upon the summit of Hauteurs de Terre, the dividing ridge between the rivulets
confluent to itself and those to the Red River of the North. Its first appearance is a tiny
pool, fed by waters trickling from the neighboring hills. The surplus waters of this little
pool are discharged by a small brook, threading its way among a multitude of very small lakes,
until it gathers sufficient water, and soon forms a larger lake. From here a second rivulet,
impelled along a rapid declination, rushes with violent impetuosity for some miles, and subsides
in Lake Itasca. Thence, with a more regular motion, until it reaches Lake Cass, from whence
taking a mainly southeasterly course, a distance of nearly seven hundred miles, it reaches
the Falls of St. Anthony. Here the river makes in a few miles a descent of sixteen feet. From
this point to the Gulf, navigation is without further interruption, and the wonders of the
Mississippi begin.

It is not possible to give, with complete exactness, the outlines of the immense valley drained
by the Mississippi, yet, with the assistance of accurate surveys, we can make an approximation,
to say the least, which will convey some idea of the physical necessity of the river to the
vast area through the centre of which it takes its course.

We will say:

  From the highest point of land
  between the mouth of the
  Atchafalaya and Mississippi
  Rivers, dividing the headwaters
  of their confluents; thence
  along the dividing ridge of tributaries
  confluent to the Sabine
  and other Texas streams from
  those of the Red, in a north-westerly
  course, to the Rocky
  Mountains, thence taking a line
  separating the headwaters of
  the Red, Arkansas, and tributary
  streams, on the east, from
  the Rio Grande and tributaries
  toward the south, and the Colorado   Miles.
  toward the west, say,                   1,300

  Thence, pursuing the dividing
  summit of the Rocky Mountains,
  to the Marias, tributary
  to the Missouri, in Dakota, say,         700

  Thence, including the headwaters
  of the Missouri, and taking
  direction southeasterly,
  dividing the tributaries of the
  Red River of the North from
  those of the Missouri to the
  source of the Minnesota; thence
  northeasterly, dividing the rivulets
  of the head lakes, Itasca,
  Cass, etc., from those confluent
  to the Red River of the North,
  separating the headwaters of
  the St. Croix from currents tributary
  to Lake Superior; thence
  embracing the confluent streams
  to the Mississippi in Wisconsin,
  Northern Illinois, and Indiana,
  to the Kankakee branch of the
  Illinois, say,                          2,000

  Thence, dividing the streams of
  the Lakes from those emptying
  into the Ohio as far as the extreme
  source of the Alleghany,
  say,                                       400

  Thence along the dividing summit
  of the Atlantic slope to the
  source of the Tennessee; thence
  dividing the streams tending
  toward the Gulf, to the mouth
  of the Mississippi, and thence
  to starting point, say,                   1,700

  Making an aggregate circuit of           6,100

Within this extensive limit we find, from surveys, the following aggregate area in square miles,
estimated by valleys:

                                         Square Miles.

  The valley of the Ohio,                   200,000

  The valley of the Mississippi
  proper,                                   180,000

  The valley of the Missouri,               500,000

  The valley of the Lower Mississippi,      330,000

                             Total area,    1,210,000

As a natural consequence of the drainage of this immense area, the Mississippi receives into
its waters a large amount of suspended earthy matter. This, however, does not very strikingly
appear on the upper river, its own banks and those of its tributaries being more of a gravelly
character and less friable than lower down. The gravity of particles, therefore, worn from
the bed and sides of the channel above, unless the current be exceedingly strong, is greater
than the buoyant capacity of the water, and falls to the bottom, along which, sometimes, it
is forced by the abrasion of the water, until it meets some obstruction, which gathers the
particles into shoal formations. This fact causes much inconvenience in the navigation of the
upper rivers.

It is not until we reach the confluence of the streams of Southern Illinois and Missouri, that
the sediment of the river becomes striking. Those streams, freighted with the rich loam and
vegetable matter of the prairies of the east and west, soon change entirely the appearance
of the Mississippi. Above the Missouri, the river is but slightly tinged; and indeed, after
that great current enters, for some distance the two run side by side in the same channel,
and yet are divided by a very distinct line of demarcation. It is only after the frequent sinuosities
of the channel, that the two waters are thrown into each other and fairly blend. The sedimentary
condition of the Missouri is so great that drift floating upon its muddy surface, by accretion
becomes so heavily laden with earthy matter that it sinks to the bottom. This precipitation
of drift has taken place to such an extent, that the bed of the Missouri is in many places
completely covered to a great depth by immense fields of logs. Of all the silt thrown into
the Mississippi, the Missouri furnishes about one third.

After receiving the Missouri, next enters the Ohio. The water of this river is less impregnated
than the Missouri, though not by any means free from silt. The country through which it flows
is mountainous, and the soil hard, and does not afford the same facility of abrasive action
as that of the other rivers.

From the mouth of the Ohio, the Mississippi pursues a course of nearly four hundred miles,
when it receives the turbid waters of the White and Arkansas Rivers. In the intervening distance
a large number of small currents, more or less largely sedimentary, according to the character
of the country through which they run, enter the Mississippi, in the aggregate adding materially
to the sediment of the receiving stream. The White and Arkansas carry in their waters a large
amount of unprecipitated matter. In this vicinity, too, sets in that singular system of natural
safeguards of the surrounding country, the bayous. The country here also changes its appearance,
becoming flat and swampy, and in some parts attaining but a few feet above the flood of the
river, whereas in other parts, as we approach the Gulf, the country is even lower than the river.

The miasmatic and poisonous water of the Yazoo next enters, about ten miles above Vicksburg.
This river is more deeply impregnated with a certain kind of impurities than any other tributary
of the Mississippi. The waters are green and slimy, and almost sticky with vegetable and animal
decomposition. During the hot season the water is certain disease, if taken into the stomach.
The name is of Indian origin, and signifies 'River of Death.' The Yazoo receives its supply
from bayous and swamps, though it has several considerable tributaries.

Below the Yazoo, on the west side, enters the Red. The name indicates the peculiar caste of
its water. This river carries with it the washings of an extensive area of prairies and swamps,
and is the last of the great tributaries. Hence the tendency of streams is directly to the
Gulf, and that network of lateral branches, of which we will hereafter speak, begins.

We have only considered the most prominent tributaries: the sediment also brought down by the
numerous smaller streams is very great, and makes great additions to the immense buoyant matter
of the Mississippi.

The river itself from its own banks scours the larger portion of the sediment it contains;
and in so gigantic a scale is this carried on, that it can be seen without the exercise of
any very remarkable powers of sight. It is not by the imperceptible degrees usually at work
in other streams, but often involves in its execution many acres of adjoining land. It will
be interesting to consider this more fully.

By a curious freak of nature, the tendency of the channel of the Mississippi is always toward
one or the other of its banks, being influenced by the direction of its bends. The principle
is one of nicely regulated refraction. If the river were perfectly straight, the gravity and
inertia of its waters would move in a right line, with a velocity beyond all control. But we
find the river very sinuous, and the momentum of current consequently lessened. For example,
striking in an arm of the river, by the inertia of the moving volume, the water is thrown,
and with less velocity, upon the opposite bank, which it pursues until it meets another repellent
obstacle, from which it refracts, taking direction again for the other side. Above the Missouri,
the river is principally directed by the natural trough of the valley. Below this, however,
the channel is purely the work of the river itself, shaped according to the necessities of
sudden changes or obstructions. This is proven by the large number of old and dry beds of the
river frequently met with, the channel having been diverted in a new direction by the accumulation
of sediment and drift which it had not the momentum to force out.

Where the gravity of the greatest volume and momentum of water falls upon the bed of the river,
there is described the thread of the channel, and all submerged space outside of this, though
in the river, acts as a kind of reservoir, where eddies the surplus water until taken up by
the current. And it always happens, where the channel takes one bend of the bed, a corresponding
tongue of shallow water faces the indenture. Where the river, by some inexplicable cause, has
been thrown from its regular channel, or its volume of water embarrassed by some difficulties
along the banks, the effect is immediately perceived upon the neighboring bank. The column
of water thus impinged against it at once acts upon the bank, and, singularly enough, exerts
its strongest abrasive action at the bottom, undermining the bank, which soon gives way, and
instead of toppling forward, it noiselessly slides beneath the water and disappears. Acres
of land have thus been carried away in an incredibly short time, and without the slightest
disruption of the serene flow of the mighty current.

This carrying away of the banks, immense as is the amount of earth thrown into the waters of
the river, has no sensible effect in blocking or directing the current, though it imperceptibly
raises the channel. The force of the water does not permit its entire settlement in quantities
at any one place, but distributes it along the bottom and shores below. Were this not the case,
it is easily to be seen, the abrasion of the river banks would be greatly increased, and the
destruction of the bordering lands immense.

A singular feature resulting from the above may here be mentioned. By pursuing the course of
the river, a short distance below, on the opposite bank, it will be seen that a large quantity
of the earth introduced into the current by the falling of the banks, has been thrown up in
large masses, forming new land, which, in a few seasons, becomes arable. That which is not
thus deposited, as already stated, is transported below, dropping here and there on the way,
until what is left reaches the Gulf, and is precipitated upon the 'bars' and 'delta,' at the
mouth. It not unfrequently happens that planters along the river find themselves suddenly deprived
of some of their acres, while one almost opposite finds himself as unexpectedly blessed with
a bountiful increase of his domain.

From causes almost similar to those given to explain the sudden and disastrous changes of the
channel of the river, are also produced those singular shortenings, known as 'cut-offs,' which
are so frequently met with on the Mississippi. At a certain point the force of the current
is turned out of its path and impinged against a neck of land, that has, after years of resistance,
been worn down to an exceedingly small breadth. Possibly the river has merely worn an arm in
its side, leaving an extensive bulge standing out in the river, and connected with the mainland
by an isthmus. The river striking in this arm, and not having sufficient scope to rebound toward
the other bank, is thrown into a rotary motion, forming almost a whirlpool. The action of this
motion upon the banks soon reduces the connecting neck, which separates and blocks the waters,
until, at last, no longer able to cope with the great weight resting against it, it gives way,
and the river divides itself between this new and the old channel.

Nor do these remarkable instances of abrasive action constitute the entire washing from the
banks. The whole length of the river is subject to a continual deposit and taking up of the
silt, according to the buoyant capacity of the water. This, too, is so well regulated that
the quantity of earthy matter held in solution is very nearly the same, being proportioned
to the force of the current. For instance, if the river receive more earth than it can sustain,
the surplus sediment drops upon the bottom or is forced up upon the sides. If the river be
subject to a rise, a proportionate quantity of the dropped sediment is again taken up, and
carried along or deposited again, according to the capacity of the water. By this means a well-established
average of silt is at all times found buoyant in the river.

Having briefly examined the sedimentary character of the Mississippi, some investigations as
to the proportion of sediment to water may be of interest. And it is well to state here that
a mean stage of flow is taken as the basis upon which to start the experiments. The experiments
and analysis of the water were made by Professor Riddell, at intervals of three days, from
May 21st to August 13, 1846, and reported to the Association of American Geologists and Naturalists.

The water was taken in a pail from the river in front of the city of New Orleans, where the
current is rather swift. That portion of the river contains a fair average of sedimentary matter,
and it is sufficiently distant from the embouchure of the last principal tributary to allow
its water to mix well with that of the Mississippi.

     'The temperature,' says the Professor, 'was observed at the time,
     and the height of the river determined. Some minutes after, the
     pail of water was agitated, and two samples of one pint each
     measured out. The measure graduated by weighing at 60 degrees
     Fahrenheit 7,295.581 grains of distilled water. After standing a
     day or two, the matter mechanically suspended would subside to the
     bottom. Nearly two thirds of the clear supernatant liquid was next
     decanted, while the remaining water, along with the sediment, was
     in each instance poured upon a double filter, the two parts of
     which had previously been agitated, to be of equal weight. The
     filters were numbered and laid aside, and ultimately dried in the
     sunshine, under like circumstances, in two parcels, one embracing
     the experiments from May 22 to July 15, the other from July 17 to
     August 13. The difference in weight between the two parts of each
     double filter was then carefully ascertained, and as to the inner
     filter alone the sediment was attached, its excess of weight
     indicated the amount of sediment.'

As the table may be interesting, showing the height and temperature of the water as well as
the result of the experiments at the different times, we introduce it complete:

TABLE showing the Quantity of Sediment contained in the Water of the Mississippi River.

  Date of      Height    Temperature.  Grains of Sediment
  Experiment.  of River                in a Pint of
               above                   Water.
               Low
               Water.

  1846.       ft.  in.         °           A.  B.
  May 21       10  11         72         6.66  7.00
   "  25       10  11         73         9.08  9.12
   "  27       10  10         78         7.80  9.00
   "  29       11   0         74         7.30  8.10
  June 2       11   1         75         4.80  5.45
   "   4       11   1         75         7.87  6.10
   "   6       11   4         75         4.60  4.90
   "   8       11   4         75.5       5.48  5.60
   "  10       10   4         76         6.70  6.80
   "  12       10   8         76         6.50  6.30
   "  14       10   5         76.5       6.00  6.00
   "  16       10   4         76.5       6.47  6.15
   "  20       10   4         77         7.08  7.40
   "  22       10   2         77         9.88  9.00
   "  24        9   8         77         8.40  8.48
   "  26        8   9         77.5       8.25  8.78
   "  28        8   0         79         9.10  9.58
  July 1        7   2         79.5       9.15  9.25
  July 3        7   2         79.5       9.63  10.00
   "   6        6   2         81         8.20  7.57
   "   8        6   0         81         7.30  6.96
   "  10        6   1         81         6.12  6.28
   "  13        5   9         82         7.72  7.30
   "  15        5  10         82         6.67  6.60
   "  17        5  10         82         4.45  4.57
   "  20        5   4         82         6.07  5.75
   "  24        3  10         84         5.76  5.72
   "  27        3   1         84         4.77  4.60
   "  29        3  11         84.5       4.28  4.13
  Aug. 1        2   6         85         4.40  4.44
   "   3        2   0         84         3.18  3.34
   "   5        1   9         83         3.56  3.40
   "   7        1   5         83         2.85  2.85
   "  10        1   6         83         3.03  2.92
   "  13        2   8         84         2.97  3.00

  The mean average of column A. is 6.32.
   "   "      "     "    "   B. is 6.30.

  Transcriber's note: This table has been reproduced exactly as in the
  original.

'By comparison with distilled water,' says the same, 'the specific gravity of the filtered
river water we found to be 1.823; pint of such water at 60° weighs 7,297.40.' Engineer Forehay
says the sediment is 1 to 1,800 by weight, or 1 in 3,000 by volume.

Professor Riddell also comes to the following conclusions, after an analytic investigation
of the sediment. He took one hundred grains from the river margin, dried it at 212° Fahrenheit,
before weighing, and found it to contain:

  Grains.

  Silica,         74.15
  Alumina,         9.14
  Oxide of iron,   4.56
  Lime,            2.08
  Magnesia,        1.52
  Manganese,       0.04
  Potassa,}        not determined
  Soda,   }
  Phosphoric acid, 0.44
  Sulphuric acid,  0.07
  Carbonic acid,   0.74
  Chlorine,        0.01
  Water,           3.12
  Organic matter,  3.10
                  -----
  Total,          98.97

The existence of so large a quantity of sediment in the water of the Mississippi, leads to
divers formations in its bed. These formations are principally 'bars' and 'battures.' The banks
are also much affected.

When the water of the river, aided by the current, has attained its full capacity of buoyant
earth, as we have already said, the excess falls to the bottom. Instead, however, of remaining
permanently where it first lodged, which would soon fill up the channel and cause the river
to overflow, the scouring of the water on the bottom forces a large portion along with the
current, though it be not suspended. Pursuing its course for a while, some irregularity or
obstruction falls in the way--a sunken log, perhaps. This obstacle checks the progress of the
moving earth--it accumulates; the next wave brings down more--the accumulation becomes greater;
until, in the course of a few years, there is a vast field of deposit, and a 'bar' is formed.
These 'bars' often divert the channel, and occasion the immense washings before alluded to.

Bars are generally found close to the banks, though there are examples in which they extend
in a transverse direction to the current. Bars of this kind very much embarrass and endanger
navigation in low water. At Helena, Arkansas, there is an instance of a transverse bar, upon
which, in October, the water is less than six feet. These bars are formed of sand, which seems
to have been the heavier and less buoyant of the components of the earth thrown into the current
by abrasion, the lighter portions having been separated by the water and carried off.

It will not be necessary to consider further the subject of bars in the river, but those at
its mouth deserve some attention. The subject is one that has led to much theorizing, study,
and fear--the latter particularly, from an ill-founded supposition that they threaten to cut
off navigation into the Gulf.

Near its entrance into the Gulf, the Mississippi distributes its waters through five outlets,
termed passes, and consequently has as many mouths. These are termed Pass à l'Outre, Northeast,
Southeast, South, and Southwest. They differ in length, ranging from three to nine miles. They
also all afford sufficient depth of water for commercial purposes, except at their mouths,
which are obstructed by bars. The depth of water upon one of these is sufficient to pass large
vessels; a second, vessels of less size; and the rest are not navigable at all, as regards
sea-going vessels. These bars, too, are continually changing, according to the winds or the
currents of the river. It is a rather singular fact that when one of the navigable passes becomes
blocked, the river is certain to force a channel of navigable depth through one of the others,
previously not in use; so that at no one time are all the passes closed.

In looking into the past, and noticing the changes, it is recorded that in 1720, of all the
passes the South Pass was the only one navigable. In 1730, there was a depth of from twelve
to fifteen feet, according to the winds, and at another time even seventeen feet was known.
In 1804, upon the statement of Major Stoddard, written at that date, the East Pass, called
the Balize, had then about seventeen feet of water on the bar, and was the one usually navigated.
The South Pass was formerly of equal depth, but was then gradually filling up. (This pass,
at present, 1864, is not at all navigated.) The Southwest Pass had from eleven to twelve feet
of water. The Northeast and Southeast Passes were traversed only by small craft. Since 1830
the Southwest Pass has been gaining depth. This and Pass à l'Outre are now the only two out
of the five of sufficient depth to admit the crossing of the larger class of vessels. The former,
however, is the one in most general use. All the other passes, with the exception of the two
mentioned, have been abandoned.

In regard to the changes and numerous singular formations at the mouths of the Mississippi,
we give a statement made by William Talbot, for twenty-five years a resident of the Balize.
He says:

     'The bars at the various passes change very often. The channel
     sometimes changes two and three times in a season. Occasionally one
     gale of wind will change the channel. The bars make to the seaward
     every year. The Southwest Pass is now the main outlet used. It has
     been so only for three years, as at that time there was as much
     water in the Northeast Pass as in it. The Southeast Pass was the
     main ship channel twenty years ago; there is only about six feet of
     water in that pass now; and where it was deepest then, there are
     only a few inches of water at this time. The visible shores of the
     river have made out into the Gulf two or three miles within my
     memory. Besides the deposits of mud and sand, which form the bars,
     there frequently rise up bumps, or mounds, near the channel, which
     divert its course. These bumps are supposed to be the production of
     salt springs, and sometimes are formed in a very few days. They
     sometimes rise four or five feet above the surface of the water.'
     He 'knew one instance when some bricks, that were thrown overboard
     from a vessel outside the bar, in three fathoms of water, were
     raised above the surface by one of these banks, and were taken to
     the Balize, and used in building chimneys. In another instance, an
     anchor, which was lost from a vessel, was lifted out of the water,
     so that it was taken ashore. About twenty years ago, a sloop, used
     as a lighter, was lost outside the bar in a gale of wind; several
     years afterward she was raised by one of these strange formations,
     and her cargo was taken out of her.'

We may say the bumps of which Mr. Talbot speaks are termed 'mud bumps,' from the fact of being
composed of sediment. They present a curious spectacle as seen from a passing steamer. They
are undoubtedly the result of subterranean pressure, but from what cause, whether volcanic,
or the influence of the sea or river, or both, has not been determined. Many speculations have
been entered into in regard to these phenomena, but as yet without fruitful result.

Leaving this digression, we proceed to notice that the theories set up to explain the causes
of the bars at the mouth of the river, have been numerous and various. Some suppose them to
be the result of the water of the river meeting the opposing force of the Gulf waves, checking
the current, and causing a precipitation of the suspended sediment. Others are of the opinion
that the bars are entirely the effect of marine action, and endeavor to show that the immense
inward flow of the Gulf washes up from its bed the vast accumulations that are continually
forming in the way of navigation.

After a personal observation and investigation, and as well after frequent and free consultation
with others, we are persuaded to discredit the above-mentioned theories. The resistance of
the Gulf does not form the bars, though it exerts an influence. The immense volume and force
of water ejected from the river receives no immediate repellent action from the Gulf, but extends
into it many miles without the least signs of disturbance, as may be plainly discovered even
in the most casual observation. It is known as well that the water of the river remains perfectly
palatable at a very close proximity to the sea. This is a very good evidence of the superior
force of the river's current. The two volumes of water mix a considerable distance out at sea.

An able engineer states that, upon examination, he found a column of fresh water seven feet
deep and seven thousand feet wide, and discovered salt water at eight feet below the surface.
As the result of his investigations, he divides the water into three strata, as follows:

1. Fresh water, running out at the top with a velocity of three miles an hour.

2. Salt water, beneath the fresh, also running out at about the same velocity.

3. A reflex flow of salt water, running in slowly at the bottom.

It is this inward current, he thinks, that produces the deposit, and in doing so carries with
it no small degree of sea drift. The influx of the lower column flowing up stream, after it
passes the dead point, is allowed time and opportunity for the sediment to deposit. The principle
of the reflex current is somewhat that of an eddy, not only produced by the conflict of two
opposing bodies of water, but also is much influenced in the under currents by the multitude
of estuaries presented by the irregular sea front of the coast.

A gentleman, who seems to have taken a very statistical view of these bars, makes the following
business-like and curious calculation as to their immensity: we introduce it on account of
its originality. He says the average quantity of water discharged per second is five hundred
and ten thousand cubic feet. The quantity of salt suspended, one in three thousand by volume.
The quantity of mud discharged, one hundred and seventy cubic feet per second. Considering
seventeen cubic feet equal to one ton, the daily discharge of mud is eight hundred and sixty-four
thousand tons, and would require a fleet of seventeen hundred and twenty-eight ships, of five
hundred tons each, to transport the average daily discharge. And to lift this immense quantity
of matter, it would require about seven hundred and seventy-one dredging machines, sixteen
horse power, with a capacity of labor amounting to one hundred and forty tons, working eight hours.

Another class of sedimentary formations met with along the banks of the Mississippi are the
battures. There is one remarkable instance of these in front of New Orleans, which has led
to much private dispute, and even public disturbance, as to ownership. Within sixty years,
in front of the Second Municipality of the city, the amount of alluvial formations susceptible
of private ownership were worth over five millions of dollars, that is, nearly one hundred
thousand dollars per annum, and the causes which have produced them are still at work, and
will probably remain so. As far back as 1847 these remarks were made upon the subject: 'The
value of the annual alluvial deposits in front of the Second Municipality now is not less than
two hundred thousand dollars, and, with the exception of the batture between the Faubourg St.
Mary line and Lacourse street, all belongs to this municipality.' 'Such a source of wealth
was never possessed by any city before. In truth, it may be said that nature is our taxgatherer,
levying by her immutable laws tribute from the banks of rivers and from the summits of mountains
thousands of miles distant to enrich, improve, and adorn our favored city.' There are numerous
other examples of the kind going on elsewhere along the river.

But the greatest exhibition of the wonderful character of the Mississippi, and in which all
its singular effects are most distinctly shown, is in its Delta. For a long succession of years
the immense quantities of sediment, of which we have already spoken, had gradually precipitated
upon this portion of the river until it reached the surface. Drift now lodged upon it: the
decomposition of drift and the accumulation of other vegetable matter soon furnished a suitable
bed for the growth of a marine vegetation, and now a vast area, a level expanse of waste land
and marsh, is seen extending a great distance into the Gulf, ramified here and there by the
outlets of the river. Indeed, so rapid have been these formations, that upon the testimony
of history, the Mississippi River to-day is twenty-nine miles farther in the Gulf than it was
in 1754.

Mr. Forshey, an engineer, remarks that 'the superficial area of the true Delta formation of
the Mississippi, or below Baton Rouge, where the last bluffs are found, is about fifteen thousand
square miles, constituting a region of mean width seventy-five miles, and mean length two hundred
miles. Probable depth of alluvion is about one fifth of a mile, by inference from the depth
of the Gulf of Mexico.' In the vicinity of New Orleans, boring to a depth of two hundred feet,
fossils, such as shells, bones, etc., have been found. And at thirty feet specimens of pottery
and other evidences of Indian habitation have been discovered. The foundation upon which rest
the alluvial formations has been found to consist of a hard blue silicious clay, closely resembling
that met with in the bed of the Mississippi. The most recent of the alluvial fields of the
Delta have been constituted a parish, termed Plaquemine. In 1800, according to one authority,
there were but very few acres in cultivation in the entire parish. Since leveeing above, the
deposit has been extremely rapid, until now we find some excellent plantations in Plaquemine.
Fifty miles below New Orleans the tillable land is nearly a mile in width; below there, it
becomes gradually less, until it is lost in the Gulf. Still the accumulations are going on,
and it is impossible even to surmise what changes the great river may yet effect in the future
geography of this section of the American continent.

Considering the multitude of streams and vastness of area drained by the Mississippi, it is
natural to suppose the river is much affected in the stage of its water by the seasons. We
have seen that the meltings of the Rocky Mountain snows, the mountain rills of the Alleghanies,
the waters of the valleys of the upper river, of the Missouri, of the Ohio, the Arkansas, the
Yazoo, and the Red, all find outlet through this one stream. There are certain seasons in the
year when all these widely distant localities are subject to a gradual approach of warmth from
the south, until they arrive at a sort of climatic average. This creates a maximum of the supply
of water. The inverse then takes place, and a minimum results. For instance, in the latter
part of December, the lower latitudes of the Mississippi begin to experience their annual rains.
These by degrees tend northward as the season advances. In March commence the thaws of the
southern borders of the zone of snow and ice; and during April, May, and June, it reaches to
the most distant tributary fountain head. The river now is at its highest. The reverse then
sets in. All the tributaries have their excess, the heats of summer are at hand, drought and
evaporation soon exhaust the surplus of the streams, and the river is at its lowest.

To meet the great annual excess of water in the Mississippi, nature has provided sure safeguards.
These are termed bayous, and are found everywhere along the river, below the mouth of the Ohio.
Additional preventives against inundation are the lagoons, or sea-water lakes, of the coast.
Into these bayous and lagoons, as the river becomes high, the excess of water backs or flows.
They are natural reservoirs, to ease the rise, and prevent the inevitable suddenness and danger
which would result without them. In these reservoirs the water rises or falls with the river;
and when the fall becomes permanent, the water in the bayous--the lagoons having outlet into
the sea--falls with it, returning into the main stream, and finding entrance into the Gulf,
from which it had been temporarily detained. Without the bayous the lands adjacent to the Lower
Mississippi would, with very few exceptions, be subject to an annual overflow, and be perfectly
worthless for certain agricultural purposes. In summer the bayous in numerous instances become
perfectly dry, and give a very singular effect to the appearance of the country.

Below the mouth of the Red River the tributaries of the Mississippi cease, and the entire volume
of the river is attained. As a protection against serious consequences arising out of such
an immense mass of water, nature has again introduced a remedy. This consists in a number of
lateral branches, which leave the river a short distance below the mouth of the Red, tending
directly to the Gulf, through a continuous chain of conduits, lakes, and marshes.

The principal bayous, which exert so important a part in regulating the stage of this part
of the river, are in length and distance from the Gulf as follows:

                                                       Distance By River.
                                                       Miles.  Miles.

  Bayou La Fourche, from the Mississippi River to the Gulf,   100       180
   " Plaquemine,        "               "          "           60       210
   " Manchac,           "               "          "           50       220
   " Atchafalaya,       "               "          "          110       300

The course of the bayous, it will be seen, have a more direct route than the river. Their average
width is one thousand feet, and fall twenty-two feet. Their average velocity is about three
and two tenths miles per hour. Though the rise of the river at Baton Rouge sometimes attains
a height of thirty feet, so great is the relieving capacity of these lateral branches, that
at New Orleans the rise never exceeds twelve feet. At Point à la Hache the difference between
the highest and lowest stage is but six feet; at Fort Jackson, four feet, while it falls to
low water mark when it enters the sea.

Having briefly noted the peculiarities of the Mississippi, a few facts in recapitulation may
place it in a more comprehensive attitude as regards its appearance and size. In the north,
after leaving the Falls of St. Anthony, the river has but the characteristics of a single stream,
but below the Ohio we find it combines the peculiarities of a number. The water here begins
to show signs of almost a new nature and greater density. The river develops into a much wider
channel, and its peculiarities become more marked and impressive.

Strange as it may seem, the greatest mean width of the Lower Mississippi is at the confluence
of the Ohio, and from this point it gradually becomes narrower, until it is but little more
than half that width as it draws near the Gulf. This gives the river a kind of funnel shape,
and if it were not for the numerous bayous and lateral branches, which we have explained, the
most violent convulsion and devastation would arise. In the United States Engineer Reports
we find this statement:

  The mean width of the Mississippi
  River between the Ohio             Feet.
  and Arkansas Rivers,               4,500

  Mean width between the Arkansas
  and Red Rivers,                    4,100

  Mean width between the Red
  River and Donaldsonville,          3,000

  Mean width between Donaldsonville
  and the Gulf,                      2,500

Above the Red River the range between high and low water is about forty-five feet, and thence
to the Gulf it gradually diminishes to zero.

The greatest velocity of current is about five and a half miles per hour during floods, and
about one and a half miles per hour during low water.

The river is above mean height from January to July, and below from August to December. The
greatest height is attained from March to June, and the lowest from October to November.

The mud of the Mississippi is very yielding, insomuch that an allowance of several feet is
often made where the draught of a vessel exceeds the clear depth of the water. We have heard
of cases where steamers have ploughed successfully through four feet of it.

It is singular, too, and exhibits still more clearly what we have said of deposits, that the
lower river for the most part runs along the summit of a ridge of its own formation, and annually
this ridge is becoming more elevated. The inland deposits are made by the bayous and their
overflow. The lands close to the river are disproportionately higher than those farther back.
The average distance from the river to the swamp is about two and a half miles. And the slope
in some places sinks to a depression of eighteen feet to a mile. It is upon this strip of tillable
earth that the river plantations are located. By a system of drainage even much of the swamp
lands now unconverted might soon be turned to profitable use.

The numerous islands and old channels of the Mississippi are also another source of wonder
to the traveller. The 'cut offs,' previously explained, are mainly the cause of both. In the
first instance, the river forces its way by a new route, and joins the river below; this necessarily
detaches a certain amount of land from the main shore. As for the second, after the river has
taken this new route, its main abrasive action follows with it. The water in the old channel
becomes comparatively quiet, sediment is rapidly deposited, and in course of time the old bed
loses its identity, or becomes a beautiful lake, numerous instances of which occur between
the Ohio and the Red Rivers.

As the Mississippi reaches the neighborhood of the Balize the east banks slope to the sea level
very rapidly, running off toward the end at a declination of three feet to a mile; after which,
the land is soon lost in wet sea marsh, covered by tides. On the west side the land declines
more slowly, and in some places is deeply wooded. The chenières begin where the declination
ends, and the great reservoirs of the coast, the lakes and lagoons, begin.

The incessant changes in the channel and filling up of the Mississippi preclude the possibility
of a table of distances mathematically accurate, yet we have taken from accepted authorities
the number of miles from the Gulf to the principal points along its banks. The table may be
of service to the many that are daily tending to the great Father of Rivers, and those at home
may be able to form, perhaps, a better estimate of the immense length of the stream, by having
before them these figures:

TABLE of Distances and Altitudes on the Mississippi.

                                                           Above level
  From the Gulf of Mexico                             Miles.  of the sea.
  To New Orleans, La.,                                   110           10.5
  "  Donaldsonville, La.,                                188           ....
  "  Plaquemine, La.,                                    210           ....
  "  Baton Rouge, La.,                                   240           ....
  "  Port Hudson, La.,                                   263           ....
  "  Bayou Sara, La.,                                    275           ....
  "  Mouth of the Red River, La.,                        315             76
  "  Fort Adams, Miss.,                                  327           ....
  "  Natchez, Miss.,                                     387             86
  "  Grand Gulf, Miss.,                                  450           ....
  "  Warrenton, Miss.,                                   500           ....
  "  Vicksburg, Miss.,                                   512           ....
  "  Mouth of the Yazoo River, Miss.,                    522           ....
  "  Milliken's Bend, La.,                               538           ....
  "  Lake Providence, La.,                               588           ....
  "  Greenville, Miss.,                                  657           ....
  "  Napoleon, Ark., and mouth of the Arkansas River,    730           ....
  "  Mouth of White River, Ark.,                         756           ....
  "  Helena, Ark.,                                       838           ....
  "  Mouth of St. Francis River, Ark.,                   848           ....
  "  Memphis, Tenn.,                                     928           ....
  "  New Madrid, Mo.,                                  1,113           ....
  "  Columbus, Ky.,                                    1,167           ....
  "  Cairo, Ill., and mouth of Ohio River,             1,187            324
  "  Cape Girardeau, Mo.,                              1,237           ....
  "  St. Louis, Mo.,                                   1,388            382
  "  Mouth of the Illinois River,                      1,422           ....
  "  Upper Iowa River, Io.,                            1,984           ....
  "  Mouth of St. Peter's River, Minn.,                2,198            744
  "  Falls of St. Anthony, Minn.,                      2,206            856
  "  Lake Cass, Minn.,                                 2,761          1,402
  "  Itasca Lake, Minn.,                               2,890          1,575
  "  Springs on the summit of Hauteurs de Terre,       2,896          1,680

The Lower Mississippi presents another feature that should not be forgotten, and which sets
forth a great design. Immense forests of cottonwood and ash are to be seen growing along its
banks. These trees are of rapid growth, and afford excellent (in fact the best, with the exception
of coal) fuel for steamers. Indeed, they constitute much the greater portion of wood consumed
in river navigation. So suitable is the rich alluvion of the river banks to the growth of these
trees, that in ten years they attain to a sufficient size for felling. Plantations lying uncultivated
for a single year, in the second present a handsome young growth of cottonwood. This fact is
now very well proven on the Mississippi; the war has ruined agricultural labor almost entirely.
No apprehensions are ever felt by steamboat men on the subject of fuel; the supply is inexhaustible
and reproducing.

The other woods found upon the river, but not, let it be said, to the extent of the cottonwood
or the ash, are the live and water oak, swamp dogwood, willow, myrtle, wild pecan, elm, and
ash. The cypress tree is found in extensive forests back from the river in the swamps. This
tree attains an enormous height, and is without branches until attaining the very top, and
then they are short and crooked, presenting a very fine and sparse foliage. The wood of the
cypress is very little used upon the river, not, perhaps, in consequence of its inferiority
of quality, but the difficulty of access to it.

In conclusion, we cannot withhold a few words upon the singular typical similarity between
the appearance of vegetation upon its banks and the river itself. Gray forests of cypress,
the blended foliage of the oak, the cottonwood, and the ash, with a charming intermixture of
that beautiful parasitic evergreen, the mistletoe, above Vicksburg, suggest the blooming grandeur
of the stream. Below, the appearance of a new parasite, the Spanish moss, draping the trees
with a cold, hoary-looking vegetation, casts a melancholy and matured dignity upon the scene.
Like the gray locks of age, it reminds the passer by of centuries gone, when the red savage
in his canoe toiled upon its turbid flood; it recalls the day of discovery, when De Soto and
La Salle sought its mighty torrent in search of gain, and found death; and now looms before
us the noblest picture of all, the existence of a maturing civilization upon its banks. Associated
thus with an ever-present suggestion of a remarkable and ever-forming antiquity, the Mississippi
becomes indeed the wonder of waters. Ponce de Leon, that most romantic of early Spanish explorers,
traversed the continent in search of a 'fountain of everlasting youth;' the powerful republic
of the West, has found in the 'Father of Waters' a fountain and a stream of everlasting, vigorous
life, wealth, and convenience.

SKETCHES OF AMERICAN LIFE AND SCENERY.

IV.--MOUNTAIN WAYS.

LUCY D----. Aunt Sarah, did you ever read the Declaration of Independence?

MRS. GRUNDY. What a question! In my youth it was read regularly, once a year, at every Fourth
of July celebration.

LUCY D----. Did you ever, when listening to it, consider that your interest in its enunciation
of principles was merely incidental, not direct?

MRS. GRUNDY. How so?

LUCY D----. The 'all men' that are born 'equal,' and with an 'inalienable right to liberty,'
does not include you, because, although you are white, you are a woman.

MRS. GRUNDY. What covert heresy is this, Lucy, with which you are endeavoring to mystify my
old-fashioned notions?

LUCY D----. I advocate no theory. I merely state a fact. My own belief is, that men are born
very unequal (I do not mean legally, but really, as they stand in the sight of God), and that
they, as well as we, are free only to do what is right in the fulfilment of inalienable duties.
'Life' and the 'pursuit of happiness' must both yield to the exactions of such duties. I must
confess, however, that, let my abstract views be as they may, I have occasionally embraced
in their widest extent the generalizations of the Declaration of Independence; and nowhere
has the right of 'Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness' seemed to me so precious and
delightful a possession as, when seated on top of a stage coach, I have breathed the exhilarating
atmosphere of some elevated mountain region. As to equality, I must also say, that there especially
do I feel my inferiority to, and dependence on the driver, who, in his sphere, reigns a king.

MRS. GRUNDY. In my day, ladies were always expected to take inside seats.

LUCY D----. Yes, and be shut up behind a great leather strap, so that if anything happened,
they would be the last to reach the door! I have a few notes of a stage-coach journey, made
last summer. If you like, I will read it to you while you work on that interminable afghan.
By the way, Aunt Sarah, I do not think you have labored quite so energetically since the late
decision made by the Metropolitan Fair in regard to raffling. How is that?

MRS. GRUNDY. My dear, I must acknowledge that my ardor is a little lessened since I began this
piece of work, for then I had not only a vision of the poor soldiers to be aided by my labor,
but I also fancied that this warm wrapping, instead of adding a new lustre to the carriage
of some luxurious lady, might perchance fall to the share of some poor widow; and these beautiful
embroidered leaves and blossoms might delight some sickly child, whose best covering had hitherto
been a faded blanket shawl, and whose mother was too poor to afford the indulgence of real
flowers, purchased from some collection of exotics, or plucked by the pale fingers from some
fragrant country wayside. However, I know that was an idle fancy, and the imagination is a
dangerous guide. I surely would never call in question the soundness of a decision made by
so many excellent and respectable people. Read on, if you please. You know me to be a patient
listener.

LUCY D----. Yes, dear aunt, and I know, too, that charity--that crown of virtues--can warm
and expand the primmest conventionality, and lend bright wings of beauty to the most commonplace
conception. The same Divine Love that fringes dusty highways with delicate, fragrant blossoms,
can cause even the arid soil of worldliness to teem with lovely growths and refreshing fruits.
But, a truce to this digression, to which, as I foresaw, you give no heed; and now to my notes:

One cool, sunshiny morning in August, a lady traveller, bent for once on gratifying the whim
of seeing what lay beyond the blue hills in the far distance, left the Laurel House (Catskill
Mountains), and took her way toward Tannersville. Two ladies, charming companions, accompanied
her as far as the bridge over the mill stream, where she struck into a neglected byway, leading
past a melancholy graveyard. The air was delicious, the mountains were clear, but softened
by a dreamy haze; each cottage garden was bright with phlox, bergamot, mallows, and nasturtiums,
and the soul of the traveller was filled with gratitude that this earth had been made so beautiful,
and she had been given health, strength, opportunity, and a stout heart to enjoy it.

Tannersville reached, an outside seat was secured on the Lexington stage. The sharers of my
lofty station were a gentleman on his way to join wife and children at Hunter, and a tattered,
greasy-looking Copperhead.

The 'sunny hill' (Clum's) was soon left behind; the opening of the Plattekill Clove, with its
beautiful mountains and deep hollows (Mink and Wildcat), passed, and the distant peaks beyond
Lexington loomed up fair as the enchanted borders of the land of Beulah. The hay was nearly
gathered in, and the oats were golden on the hillsides. Men for farmwork were evidently scarce,
and the driver said they had nearly all gone to the war. The Copperhead remarked: 'I was always
too smart for that, I was.'

The driver told him his turn would come yet, for he would certainly be drafted. Copperhead
said he had the use of only one arm. Driver opined that would make no difference; they took
all, just as they came. Copperhead grumbled out: 'Yes; I know we ha'n't got no laws nohow!'

At Hunter, the wife and two ruddy little boys came out to meet the expected head of the family.
A bright and happy meeting! The Copperhead also got down, and took seat inside the stage, where
he was soon joined by a country lassie, whose merry voice speedily gave token of acquaintance
and satisfaction with her fellow traveller.

Opposite Hunter is the most beautiful view of the Stony Clove. The high and narrow cleft opens
to the south, and I thought of loved ones miles and miles away.

Beyond Hunter, a long, straggling village, with some neat houses, the road becomes smoother,
and gradually descends along the east bank of the Schoharie, which it rarely leaves. The meadow
lands widen a little, and the way is fringed by maples, beeches, alders, hemlocks, birches,
and occasional chestnuts. The stream is rapid, clear, and, though without any noteworthy falls,
a cheerful, agreeable companion. The mountains on the left bank are steep and rugged; near
Hunter, burnt over; afterward, green to the top, and, while occasionally curving back from
the stream, and thus forming hollows or ravines, still presenting not a single cleft between
Stony Clove and the clove containing the West Kill, and opening out from Lexington toward Shandaken.
The West Kill enters the Schoharie a little below Lexington, and the East Kill flows in above,
near Jewett.

Every farm glittered with golden sunflowers. I saw one misguided blossom obstinately turning
its face away from the great source of light and heat. Every petal was drooping, and I wondered
if the dwellers in the neighboring cot heeded the lesson. The buckwheat fields were snowy with
blossoms and fragrant as the new honey the bees were industriously gathering.

Lexington is a lovely village, with pretty dwellings, soft meadows, and an infinite entanglement
of mountains, great and small, green and blue, for background in every direction. I had already
been warned that the stage went no farther; and, as my destination that evening was Prattsville,
some means of conveyance was of course necessary. The driver feared the horses would all be
engaged haying, and asked what I would do in case no wagon could be found. I replied that,
as the distance from Lexington to Prattsville was only seven miles, and I had no luggage, it
might readily be accomplished on foot. He opened his eyes, and, perhaps, finding the Lexington
hotel not likely to be benefited by my delay, cast about for some way of obliging me. As we
drove up to the post office, the door was found locked, and Uncle Samuel's agent absent, which
circumstance, taken in connection with the fact that the mail comes to Lexington only twice
per week, struck me as decidedly 'cool.'

By six o'clock I found myself seated in a comfortable buggy, behind a sleek, fleet pony, and
beside an old gentleman, whose upright mien and pleasant talk added no little to the enjoyment
of the hour. The evening lights were charming, the hills wound in and out, the Schoharie rippled
merrily over the cobble stones or slate rocks forming its bed, and the clematis and elder bushes
gently waved their treasures of white blossoms, silky seeds, or deepening berries, in the soft
summer air. By and by the slate cliffs rose precipitously from the river shore, leaving only
room sufficient for the road, which, is in fact, sometimes impassable, when the rains or melting
snows have swollen the singing river to an angry, foaming, roaring flood. My companion told
me of the agriculture of the district, of the wild Bushnell Clove, of bees and honey making,
and of the Prattsville tanneries, which he stigmatized as a curse to the country, cutting down
all the trees, and leaving only briers and brambles in their stead. He also told me of two
brave sons in the Union army, and of a married daughter far away. The oldest boy had been wounded
at Gettysburg, and all three children had recently been home on a short visit. 'Children,'
said the old man, 'are a heap more trouble when they are grown than when they are little; for
then they all go away, and keep one anxious the whole time.'

We drove under the steep ledges, the hills of Beulah were passed, and Prattsville reached.

The following morning was bright and clear, but warm. I rose early, and went up on the high
bluffs overlooking the town. Below was a pretty pastoral view of stream, meadow, hop fields,
pasture lands with cattle, sundry churches, and neat white houses, shut in by great hills,
many bare, and a few still wooded. Passing beneath the highest ledge, I came upon an old man,
a second Old Mortality, chipping away at the background for a medallion of the eldest son of
Colonel Zadoc Pratt, a gallant soldier, who fell, I believe, at the second battle of Manassas.
On a dark slab, about five hundred and fifty feet above the river, is a profile in white stone
of the great tanner himself. An honest countryman had previously pointed it out to me, saying:
'A good man, Colonel Pratt--but that looks sort of foolish; people will have their failings,
and vanity is not one of the worst!' On the above-mentioned ledges are many curious carvings,
a record of 'one million sides of leather tanned with hemlock bark at the Pratt tanneries in
twenty years,' and other devices, such as niches to sit in, a great sofa wrought from the solid
rock, and a pretty spring.

At ten o'clock the stage came from Delhi, which place it had left at two in the morning. Seventy
miles from Delhi to Catskill--a good day's journey! It was full, and our landlord put on an
extra, giving me a seat beside the driver, and filling the inside with men. Said driver was
a carpenter, and an excellent specimen of an American mechanic--intelligent and self-respecting.
This is a great cattle and dairy region, and we passed several hundred lambs on their way to
the New York market. The driver pitied the poor creatures; and, when passing through a drove,
endeavored to frighten them as little as possible. 'Innocent things!' said he, 'they have just
been taken from their mothers, and know not which way to turn.

At the first turn in the road we passed a great bowlder, known throughout the country as 'the
big rock.' Beside the highway flows the Red Kill, a tributary of the Schoharie. There are some
trout in it, but a couple of cotton factories have frightened them nearly all away. A hot political
discussion soon arose among the inside passengers. Our driver seemed to think loud and angry
words quite out of place, and said: 'I am a Democrat myself, but the other day I had a talk
with the Republican tax collector of our place, and I concluded we both wanted about one thing--the
good of our country. Honest Republicans and honest Democrats are not so far asunder as people
usually think.'

Mountain after mountain stretched away to north, south, east, and west, blue or green, bright
or dark, as distance or the shadows of the beautiful cumulus clouds severally affected them.
Up, up we wound, the merry kill dancing beside us, and the air growing fresher and more elastic
with every foot of ascent. The country is quite well settled, and we rose through Red Falls
and Ashland to Windham, a long, peculiar-looking town, where we dined, and exchanged our two
stages for a large one seating eighteen persons (inside and out), and drawn by four fresh steeds.
The mountains grew wilder, the air cooler, and finally Windham High Peak or Black Head, a great
round-topped peak, appeared on the right. A party from Albany had that day gone up. No water
can be found near the top. This is thought to be the loftiest summit of the range (3,926 feet),
but our new driver said there was another peak toward the southwest, which he fancied higher.

In the cleft between Windham High Peak and the mountain to the north, runs the road, which
suddenly emerges from the defile and overlooks the open country. We here find no long cleft
as in the Kauterskill, Plattekill, and Stony Cloves, but the highway descends along the face
of the mountain slope. The first view is toward the northeast, and, of a clear day, must be
very fine. The distance was hazy, but the atmospheric effects on the near mountains only the
more beautiful. The road is generally through cleared lands, so that the view is constantly
visible, and continually opening out toward the south. Acra, Cairo, and Leeds were all passed
through, and Catskill reached about half past six in the evening. Kiskatom Round Top rose round
and dark to the south of Cairo, whence also the entire western slope of the Catskills was plainly
visible, a soft, flowing, and tender outline. Near Leeds, on the Catskill Creek, are some curious
rocks. We had changed drivers at Cairo. The new one was a jollier specimen of humanity than
any I had yet seen; he evidently loved good living, and would not refuse a glass of grog when
off duty. His team was named Lightfoot, Ladybird, Vulture, and Rowdy, and was coaxed along
with gentle words, as: 'Go on, little ones!' 'Get up, lambs!' and similar endearing appellations.

The sunset was glorious. Round Top and Overlook were bathed in purple red; crimson clouds hung
over the North and South Mountains, while Black Head and the surrounding summits were partly
obscured, partly thrown out by heavy storm clouds.

The night was sultry, and the succeeding morning opaque with an August fog. Rising early, I
sat upon the upper gallery of the little Catskill inn, and watched the manners and customs
of the street corners. An old, one-armed man, with a younger and more stalwart, appeared at
a sort of chest counter, covered by a bower of green boughs, and drew out two tables, which
were then placed at the edge of the pavement. The chest was unlocked, and forth came several
bushels of potatoes, three or four dozen wilted ears of corn, two squashes (one white and one
orange), three half-decayed cabbage heads, a quantity of smoked sturgeon, a dish of blueberries,
and a great pan of blackberries. These dainties were arranged and rearranged upon the tables,
to make them look as attractive as possible, and then left to the sun, the dust, and the flies,
to improve as they best might. Weary hours passed, and customers came slowly in. At one o'clock,
when I left, about half the original stock remained. On the opposite corner was a group of
children struggling for the possession of two lively kittens: wrangling, coaxing, defying,
yielding, and pouting, gave animation to a scene, in which a pretty, saucy girl, and a lazy,
lordly lad were the principal actors. Down came the lawyer to the fat, sleek, clean-looking
negro barber, to be shaved, and then away up to the court house, with a jaunty, swinging, self-satisfied
air, that said plainly enough--'Find me a smarter man than I, will you?' A tipsy porter came
staggering under a load for the down boat; a dusty miller wended his way to a flour store;
a little contraband carried home a fish as long as himself; an indignant, dirty, black-bearded
mulatto cursed at his recent employer, whom he accused of having defrauded him of his wages;
a neat, trig damsel tripped by in cool morning dress; a buxom dame, unmistakeably English,
in great round hat, brim about a foot radius, swept past the humble market stand; a natty storekeeper
came to his door, and looked out for customers; a servant lass, sent out with a pretty child
in a little wagon to purchase a newspaper, stopped at a milliner's to read some interesting
item to the shop girl; two young officers, in gay new uniforms, sauntered by; a crippled soldier
hobbled along on a crutch, stages rushed down from the mountains, parties in buggies and on
horseback flew past, the dust thickened, the sun came out clear and burning, the din increased,
and I went down to the little parlor in search of shade and quiet.

At one the stage for the Mountain House started. The passengers had already waited three hours
for the arrival of the down boat, delayed by the fog. They were consequently in no very cheerful
frame of mind, and grumbled and growled all the way up the mountain. The day was very warm
(94° in the shade), the horses were wearied out by so many journeys up and down, and the five
outside and two inside gentlemen seemed by no means willing to relieve their aching limbs and
panting hearts. When we reached the steep portion of the ascent, not a single one offered to
walk. I felt ashamed--three were Germans, and four my own countrymen. Of the inside ladies,
one was German, and four were Americans. In vain did the mountains, with alternate sun and
shadow, shining slopes and passionate thunder clouds, don their loveliest aspect. Though never
up before, the young German lady and one of the New Yorkers read nearly the whole way to the
summit; another lady kept down her veil, and refused to look out, because it was so sunny;
the German youth slept, and one only of the inside passengers seemed to feel any real interest
in the beautiful and gradual unveiling of the mysteries of these noble hills. When about half
a mile above the toll-gate, the horses stopped to rest, and I could no longer endure the idea
of their straining up the steep declivity under so heavy a load. I asked a gentleman to open
the door for me, as I would walk a way, and thus relieve the poor animals of at least one hundred
and ten pounds. Walk I did, but not a single individual followed my example. Heavy drops began
to fall, the thunder muttered, and I reached Rip Van Winkle's fabled retreat barely in time
to escape a wetting. As the stage came lumbering up with its load of stout, well-fed men, a
young woman in the little hut called out: 'Just see them hogs on top of that coach!'

Whether the gentlemen heard her, I know not, but the rain having ceased, all left the top of
the vehicle and walked thence to the Mountain House.

I reached the Laurel House in the early twilight, and thus happily ended my three days' journey.

THE MARCH OF LIFE.

    Less from evils borne we suffer
      Than from those we apprehend,
    And no path through life seems rougher
      Than the one which we ascend.

    But though Time delights in dealing
      Wounds which he alone can heal,
    And the sorrows wed to feeling
      Make it misery to feel;

    Nobler than the soulless Stoic,
      He, who, like the Theban chief,
    Till the fight is won, heroic
      Hides the rankling dart of grief.

    Lords of an immortal glory
      Be the slaves of mortal shame!
    No; though Martyrdom before ye
      Rear a precipice of flame.

    On the barriers that dismay us
      Carve the charter of your birth;
    True endurance, like Antæus,
      Strengthens with each cast to earth.

    Wayward man too often fritters
      Living destinies away,
    Chasing a mirage that glitters
      To bewilder and betray.

    Then press upward in the vanguard;
      Be not guided by the blind;
    For when Vigor waves the standard
      Triumph is not far behind.

    It was that which led the marches
      Through the Revolution's snows,
    And through Jena's fiery arches
      Rolled destruction on its foes.

    Then if failure blunt your spirit,
      Think of this before you swerve:
    He has glory who has merit--
      It is royal to deserve.

THOMAS DE QUINCEY AND HIS WRITINGS.

No more signal service, during the last half century, has been rendered to the lovers of genuine
books, than the collection and republication of the fragmentary writings of Thomas de Quincey.
Cast, for the most part, upon the swollen current of periodical literature, at the summons
of chance or necessity, during a career protracted beyond the allotted threescore years and
ten, the shattered hand of the Opium Eater was powerless to arrest their flight to silence
and forgetfulness; increasing remoteness was daily throwing a deeper shadow upon ancient landmarks,
and consequently upon the possibility of their recovery. We do not pretend that De Quincey
has yet been awarded by any very general suffrage the foremost position among modern littérateurs;
we expect that his popularity will be of slow growth, and never universal. Universal popularity
a writer of the highest talent and genius can never secure, for his very loftiness of thought
and impassioned eccentricity cut him off from the sympathy, and hence from the applause, of
a vast section of humanity. But when contemporary prejudice and indifference shall clear up,
and the question be summoned for final arbitration before the dispassionate tribunal of the
future, we suspect that the name of Thomas de Quincey will head the list of English writers
during the last seventy-five years. If we should apply to our author the rule which he remorselessly
enforces against Dr. Parr, that the production of a complete, first-class work is the only
absolute test of first-class literary ability, our position would be untenable, for it is notorious
that De Quincey's writings are entirely fragmentary. But it will never do to lay down a canon
of that sort as the basis of calculation in estimating the intellectual altitude of literary
men. The wider the field the greater the scope for grandeur of design and the pomp of achievement;
but it is seldom that a writer who can produce an essay of the highest order cannot also meet
successfully the demands of a more protracted effort. Narrowness of bounds, want of compass
for complete elaboration, is often no slight obstacle. The more minute the mechanism, the more
arduous the approach to perfection. The limits of the essay are at best cramped, and the compression,
the adjusting of the subject to those limits, so that its character and bearings may be naturally
and perspicuously exhibited, imply no ordinary skill. Besides, the advisability, or rather
the possibility of undertaking a literary work of the first magnitude is dependent not less
upon circumstances beyond the range of individual control than upon intellectual capacity.

In asserting for De Quincey the leading position among the writers of this century, we are
clothing him with no ordinary honors--honors which no man can rightfully enjoy without mental
endowments at once multiform and transcendent. Our age thus far has been prolific in genius,
inferior, indeed, to no other, except, perhaps, the Elizabethan; and, even here, inferior only
at two points, tragedy and that section of poetry in which alone is found the incarnation of
the sublime--the divine strains of John Milton. But in range of achievement our epoch has scarcely
a rival. Mighty champions have arisen in almost every department of letters, and it is plain
that, amid merits so divergent and wide removed, we can justly ascribe absolute precedence
to no man without establishing, at the outset, a standard of ideal excellence, and by that
adjusting the claims of all competitors.

We may remark, then, in general, that few first-class writers have appeared who did not require
as a condition of success varied and profound learning. Kant, indeed, won immortality by the
efforts of blank power. It is said that he never read a book; so wonderful was his synthetical
and logical power, that if he could once discover the starting point, the initial principles
of a writer, there was no occasion for his toiling through the intermediate argumentation to
reach the conclusions--he grasped them almost intuitively, provided, of course, the deductions
were logical. But even Kant, had his acquaintance with the literature of metaphysics been more
extensive, would have avoided many errors, as well as the trouble of discovering many truths
in which he had been long anticipated. Herder thought that too much reading had hurt the spring
and elasticity of his mind. Doubtless we may carry our efforts to excess in this direction
as well as any other, by calling into unduly vigorous and persistent action the merely receptive
energies of the mind. Perhaps this was the case with Herder, as the range of his reading was
truly immense; but if so, it argues with fatal effect against his claims to the highest order
of intellect; if the weight of his body was too great for his wings, there lurked somewhere
a sad defect. In the vast plurality of cases success lies in, and is graduated by, the intensity
of mental reaction upon that which has been acquired from others. The achievements of the past
are stepping stones to the conquests of the present. New truths, new discoveries, are old truths,
old discoveries remodelled and shifted so as to meet the view under a different angle; new
structures are in no proper sense creations, but mainly the product of a judicious eclecticism.
Sir William Hamilton was a vast polyhistor long before he could be called a philosopher, or
even thought himself one. Researches the most persistent in nearly every department of letters
were with him the indispensable prelude to his subsequent triumphs.

But all this is simply conditional. What, then, are the powers which nature alone can bestow?
What must she have done before the highest results can arise from literary effort, however
immense the compass of our information? There must be powerful analytic and discursive ability,
combined with a commensurate reach of constructive and imaginative capacity. An intellect thus
endowed, approaches the perfection of our ideal. If one of these elements is deficient, we
shall lack either depth or brilliance, acuteness or fancy; our structures may be massive, titanic,
but hostile to the laws of a refined taste; colossal and dazzling, but too airy and unsubstantial
except for the few who are

  'With reason mad, and on phantoms fed.'

Before some such ideal tribunal as this let us summon the aspirants to the dictatorial honors
which seem to have slumbered since the day of Dr. Johnson, and arbitrate their claims.

Who shall combat the succession of Thomas de Quincey to this vacant throne? Shall it be Coleridge,
'the noticeable man with large, gray eyes,' or the stately Macaulay, or Carlyle, with his Moorish
dialect and sardonic glance, or hale old Walter Scott, or Lamb, or Hazlitt, or Christopher
North? The time was when Coleridge's literary fame was second to that of no other man. But
he has suffered a disastrous eclipse; it has been articulately demonstrated that the vast body
of his most valuable speculations, both in the department of philosophy, and also in that of
poetry and of the fine arts generally, were so unblushingly pirated from Schelling and other
German writers, that all defence, even that which was merely palliative, has signally failed.
That fact silences absolutely and forever his claim. Nor can the pretensions of Macaulay or
Carlyle be tolerated; in neither of them is found in any marked degree what has been aptly
called 'double-headed' power--in neither are combined the antagonistic resources of profound
thought and brilliant imagination. Macaulay, unapproachable in the delineation of character
and in the mastery of stately narrative, seems to be shorn of his wonted power in the presence
of the higher philosophical and moral questions--the flight that is elsewhere so bold and triumphant,
droops and falters here. As for Carlyle, to say nothing of other faults, we vainly search his
writings for anything positive; he is a blank destroyer, breathing out everlasting denunciation
and regret. No man can possess the highest order of talent or genius whose powers are essentially
negative. Mere demolition--demolition which is not the first step in the advance of reform
and reconstruction, the preliminary removal of ancient rubbish for the erection of newer and
nobler structures--is worse than futile. But we will not pursue farther this phase of our subject.
We take our stand upon the position, and think it can be maintained against all comers, that
these writers, and others which might be named, although supreme in certain departments, fail
in range of power; in other words, that they have specialities outside of which they attain
no remarkable excellence. Scott, for instance, is unsurpassed in the drama of fiction; but
in the more transcendent sphere of poetry his success is open to a very serious demur. But
how is the case with De Quincey? Did he ever write a poem? No; but he was nevertheless a poet
of the first rank. Did he ever publish a treatise on metaphysics? No. His great work 'De Emendatione
Humani Intellectus,' was never completed, but he was, notwithstanding, an acute philosopher.
The author of no complete history, he was not the less a divine master of historic narration,
grave or gay, sententious or impassioned. No one is more profoundly convinced than ourselves
that mere rhetorical declamation, and the sepulchral voice of fulsome eulogy can never establish
claims of such vast magnitude. What has Mr. de Quincey achieved, what range of capacity has
he exhibited in the memorials he has left behind, in the grand conceptions that have arisen
upon his mind, whether completely projected into the sphere of tangible reality or not?--these
are the crucial questions upon which hang for him the trophies of renown or the dark drapery
of oblivion.

Every person who is competent to form an opinion on the subject, very readily allows that political
economy, so infinite and subtile are the forces that enter into its shifting phenomena, is
a science of no slight complexity, and that the successful unveiling of its disordered tissue
demands, in the first instance, the highest intellectual acuteness and profundity. We here
encounter the same obstacles as in metaphysics, except that in the one case the phenomena investigated
are subjective, in the other objective. Both conditions have peculiar advantages; both are
open to peculiar difficulties, which it is unnecessary to discuss at present. But the power
which can grapple successfully with the vexed complications of the one will be no less potent
in piercing those of the other; acuteness of analysis, sleepless insight, subtile thought,
ample constructive or synthetic ability, these are the only endowments out of which any original
success can arise in either case. What has Mr. de Quincey achieved for the science of political
economy? We might answer by asking, What has Mr. Ricardo achieved in that department? Ricardo
and De Quincey had independently arrived at the same conclusions on the subject at about the
same time. The fact that Ricardo first proclaimed to the world his revolutionary doctrines
of rent and value has won for him the lion's share of the applause they compelled; but that
rendered De Quincey's independent conclusions none the less real discoveries, subtracted nothing
from the aggregate of his real merit. The vast obstacles which lay in the path of these discoveries
can never be fully appreciated, until we apprehend, to some extent, the apparently hopeless
and inextricable confusion with which the whole subject was at that time invested: out of the
blackness of darkness, out of the very heart of chaos and anarchy rose two mighty luminaries,
that have been polar beacons to all subsequent explorers. De Quincey's writings on political
economy are partially fragmentary; that is, they do not exhaust the subject as a whole, although
thoroughly probing several capital points upon which the entire subject turns. Sometimes he
ostensibly limits himself to elucidating and defending Ricardo's views; but the discussion
is conducted with so much ease and force and fertility of resources, disclosing at times a
depth of insight far outstripping that of his pretended master, that we cannot resist the conclusion
that the doctrines which he defends are in fact discoveries of his own--discoveries which,
finding himself anticipated in their publication, he generously turns to the advantage of his
fortunate rival. Although De Quincey gravely assures us that in his opinion Ricardo is a 'model
of perspicuity,' we suspect that few will agree with him, as his thought is always subtile
and sometimes perplexed; but De Quincey--while not at all inferior in acuteness and power of
thought, in perception of shy differences and resemblances between contrasted objects, winning
at this point even the praise of John Stuart Mill--in elasticity, force, and elegance of style,
infinitely surpasses the whole race of political economists. We know of nothing throughout
the vast range of economic investigation more admirable, being at once clear and conclusive,
simple and profound, culminating in the utter razing and dismantling of the Malthusian theory,
than the discussion of value in the 'Templars' Dialogues.' There is no faltering, no hesitation,
no discursiveness; the arrow flies swiftly and fatally to the mark. It is not possible, or
desirable, at the present time, to discuss minutely De Quincey's achievements as exhibited
in his 'Logic of Political Economy' and 'Templars' Dialogues:' in these works he laid the foundation
of a colossal structure, which the distraction of nervous misery never allowed him to complete.
He had laboriously gathered the materials out of every nation and tongue; he had painfully
perfected the vast design; but, when standing on the very verge of triumph, he was doomed to
see life-long hopes extinguished forever, success slipped from his nerveless grasp in the moment
of victory. Surely he might join in the passionate lament:

    'I feel it, I have heaped upon my brain
    The gathered treasures of man's thought in vain.'

The subjects which De Quincey has critically investigated are very numerous, and it cannot
be expected that our limits will permit any exhaustive enumeration of them. We propose to select
a few of the more prominent, which will serve as exponents of the whole.

De Quincey's views on war will doubtless be astounding to most persons who have never given
the subject any very particular attention. Deluded by the false doctrines of peace societies,
they doubtless regard war as an evil, at once inhuman and unnecessary. Altogether hostile to
this idea is the position of De Quincey; he solemnly declares that war neither can be abolished
nor ought to be. War has a deeper and more ineffable relation to hidden grandeurs in man than
has as yet been deciphered. To execute judgments of retribution upon outrages offered to human
rights or to human dignity, to vindicate the sanctities of the altar and the sanctities of
the hearth--these are functions of human greatness which war has many times assumed, and many
times faithfully discharged. But behind all these there towers dimly a greater. The great phenomenon
of war it is--this, and this only--which keeps open in man a spiracle--an organ of respiration--for
breathing a transcendent atmosphere, and dealing with an idea that else would perish--viz.,
the idea of mixed crusade and martyrdom, doing and suffering, that finds its realization in
such a battle as that of Waterloo--viz., a battle fought for interests of the human race felt
even where they are not understood; so that the tutelary angel of man, when he traverses such
a dreadful field, when he reads the distorted features, counts the ghastly ruins, sums the
hidden anguish, and the harvests

  'Of horror breathing from the silent ground,'

nevertheless, speaking as God's messenger, blesses it, and calls it very good.'

Startling as these assertions may appear at first sight, they are, notwithstanding, profoundly
philosophical; all history proclaims their solemn truth--is, in fact, totally inexplicable
and confused on any other supposition. History is by no means merely biography condensed; far
from it; biography is concerned with the shifting and ephemeral career of individual men; but
history, far transcending that lowly sphere, records the revolution and progress of principles;
these succeed each other in everlasting succession, like the revolution of day and night; and
individuals rise into importance only as they stand related to, are the agents of, this progress.
The future is forever supplanting the present; the feud is immortal--the antagonism inevitable;
if effete ideas and principles, which have accomplished their mission, refuse to retire and
peaceably give place to their legitimate successors, conflict arises of necessity--a conflict
in which the usurper must finally triumph, or the wheels of human progress will be effectually
blocked. War, then, is necessary to the advance of humanity. Although De Quincey discerns the
absolute extinction of war only at the 'infinite and starry distance of the Millennium,' still,
as its enginery is becoming more and more destructive, its danger and expense increasing, as
the progress of civilization is gradually effacing the darker stains from human society, and
luring it from the path of violence by the charm of luxurious repose, the necessity of war
will gradually disappear--its total decline approach. We would remark in passing that De Quincey
is altogether too captious in his criticisms upon French ideas of war. So far as the majority
of men are concerned, whether Englishmen or Frenchmen, little pain is taken to search out the
philosophy of events. But Cousin, in his 'Course of History,' has asserted, even more peremptorily
than De Quincey himself, the divine mission of war. He essentially declares that carnage is
always and of necessity God's daughter: to this extreme doctrine Mr. de Quincey would doubtless
demur, averring that 'by possibility' such might not be the case.

Still profounder insight is disclosed in the article on 'Christianity as an Organ of Political
Movement.' It was a chance perusal of this essay that first turned our attention to De Quincey's
writings, and we involuntarily exclaimed, as did he when first falling upon Ricardo's work,
'Thou art the man!' The object in view is to distinguish accurately between the Christian and
pagan idea of religion. There has been great confusion on this point. What is involved in the
term religion as used by a Christian? According to De Quincey there are four elements: 1st.
A form of worship; 2d. An idea of God; 3d. The idea of a relation subsisting between God and
His creatures; 4th. A doctrinal part. Now, of these cardinal elements, only one, that of worship,
was present in pagan religions, and even this was so completely distorted, arose from impulses
so utterly despicable, as to be positively immoral in its tendencies. The gods were, to their
worshippers, dreadful realities--monsters of crime, at once powerful and vindictive--the very
footballs of unhallowed passion; hence worship was not the result of love or reverence, or
even of a regard to future interests, but it was simply an expedient to shun danger immediately
behind--a mock truce between immortal foes, which either party might violate at pleasure. Where,
then, lurks the transcendent power of Christianity as an organ of political movement? Simply
in the fact that it brings men into the most tender and affecting relations with God, and,
over and above this, that it rests upon a dogmatic or doctrinal basis. These features were
never suspected even as possible until Christianity revealed them.

It is known, of course, to every literary person, that Bentley attempted to amend Milton's
'Paradise Lost,' and that, on the whole, he made a very signal failure. It has been a matter
of great surprise on the part of many, that one who is so confessedly superior in the criticism
of classical poetry, whose ear was so exquisitely sensitive and accurate when awakened by ancient
lyres, should prove himself such a driveller in the presence of the grandest cathedral-music
of modern times. Coleridge took occasion to observe that it was only our ignorance that prevented
Bentley's emendations and innovations from appearing as monstrous and unnatural in the poetry
of the ancients as in that of John Milton. The charge appears very plausible and damaging at
first sight. We notice it in order to exhibit De Quincey's marvellous sagacity in detecting
the true relation of things: he utterly dissipated the force of the cavil by simply stating
the actual bearings of the two classes of poetry. Ancient poetry was darkly austere and practical;
the imagination was fettered by a grim austerity; the merely passionate--that which proceeds
from the sphere of the sensibilities alone--finds no resting place in its vast domain; but
in the poetry of Milton the element of passion is triumphant; hence Bentley, with his icy,
critical, matter-of-fact temperament, could never appreciate Milton's majestic flights. We
shall content ourselves with merely adducing another illustration of our author's extremely
speculative and metaphysical cast of mind, and then close this section of the review. This
is taken from that touchingly beautiful chapter in the 'Autobiographic Sketches,' entitled
'The Afflictions of Childhood.' De Quincey, even in his childhood, was profoundly sensitive,
and capable of forming the most ardent attachments. Tender and absorbing was the love which
had sprung up between himself and his sister Elizabeth; she was the joy of his life--she was
supreme in his affections. At the age of nine years she suddenly sickened and died; De Quincey,
although younger by three years, was overwhelmed with unspeakable agony. When his sister had
been dressed for the grave, he stole silently and alone into her chamber to look once more
upon her beautiful face, to kiss once more her sweet lips: while standing by the bedside he
is suddenly struck down in a trance, and his description of the scene is one of the noblest
prose poems in the English language. But even here, amid the absorbing disclosures of a frantic
sorrow, when the mighty swell of passion had reached its culmination, and a solemn Memnonian
wind, 'the saddest that ear ever heard,' began to arise, and the seals of a heavenly vision
were about to be unloosed--even here he pauses, philosophically to 'explain why death, other
conditions being equal, is more profoundly affecting in summer than in other parts of the year'!

We have said that De Quincey was an eminent master of the historic art. His power in this direction
is signally displayed in his account of 'The Household Wreck,' 'The Spanish Nun,' 'The First
Rebellion,' and the 'Flight of a Tartar Tribe.' 'The Household Wreck' is a powerful and dramatic
narrative, but the plot is somewhat confused; on the whole, it is decidedly inferior to the
'Spanish Nun.' The nun is a bona-fide historical personage, and her career is delineated with
surprising effect. She was the daughter of a Spanish hidalgo, who pitilessly carried her in
infancy to the Convent of St. Sebastian, where she remained until the age of fifteen; the quietude
of that cloistered life her stormy spirit could no longer brook; she eloped, assumed male attire,
became the page of a nobleman, at whose house she saw that 'old crocodile,' her father, who
was now searching with mock solicitude for his absconded daughter; exposure was imminent; no
safety remained until the ocean divided her from Spain, and her plans were formed at once;
the nun embarked for South America, doubled Cape Horn, was shipwrecked on the coast of Peru;
finally arrived at Paita; killed a man in a street encounter; escaped death only by promising
to marry a lady who had fallen in love with her; once again there was no security but in flight;
she joined a cavalry regiment commanded by her own brother, to whom she was unknown; him she
unwittingly killed in a midnight duel; then follow the terrific passage of the Andes, the fearful
tragedies at Tucuman and Cuzco, her return to Europe in compliance with royal and papal commands;
she approaches the port of Cadiz; myriads upon myriads line the shore and cover the houses
to catch a glimpse of the martial nun; cardinals and kings and popes hasten to embrace her;
the thunders of popular welcome arise wherever she appears; but the nun finds no rest; terrific
memories rankle in her bosom, and blast her repose; again she embarks for America; but then,
how closed that career, so tragically tempestuous?

In De Quincey's brief sketch of the 'First Rebellion' are found some graphic historical paintings.
We refer to the account of his brother William. But there is still another section of the narrative
art, yet more sublime and unapproachable, where De Quincey stands alone--the section in which
are recorded his dreams. These are without a rival or even a precedent in the English language;
nay, purely impassioned prose as 'The Confessions' and 'Suspiria de Profundis' is scarcely
to be found in any language; but the narration of dreams, while exposed to all its difficulties,
is invested with superadded difficulties, arising from the shifting, visionary character of
the world in which its scenes are laid, 'where a single false note, a single word in a wrong
key, will ruin the whole music.' De Quincey's habit of dreaming was constitutional, and displayed
itself even in infancy. He was naturally extremely sensitive, and of a melancholy temperament;
he was so passionately fond of undisturbed repose, that he willingly submitted to any amount
of contempt if he could only be let alone; he had that weird faculty which is forever peopling
the darkness with myriads of phantoms; then came the afflictions of childhood--that night,
which ran after his footsteps far into life--and finally came opium, which is a specific 'for
exalting the dream scenery, for deepening its shadows, and, above all, for strengthening the
sense of its fearful realities:' all these allied characteristics and circumstances, combined
with his vast intellectual capacity, imparted to De Quincey's dreams a terrific grandeur. They
were sometimes frightful, sometimes sublime, but always accompanied by anxiety and melancholy
gloom. It is too long to quote, too sublime to be marred by abbreviation. If any one desires
to see what can be done with the English language in an 'effort to wrestle with the utmost
power of music,' let him read that dream.

In point of style and general method of treating subjects, De Quincey's greatest faults are
pedantry and discursiveness. Of the former we have no defence to make; we think that, in writing
avowedly for the public, and not for any particular class, the use of technical terms merely
because they are technical, and of learned terms merely because they are learned, is a positive
blemish. But still greater offence is given to many readers by the occasional practice of discursiveness;
we employ the epithet intentionally, for the habit is by no means so inveterate as many seem
to suppose. Yet even where it is most triumphant, there is, nevertheless, a goal to be reached--a
goal which will finally be reached, despite interminable zigzags and 'harsh angles.' This peculiarity
was, doubtless, in a great degree occasioned by the use of opium. Opium, even amid the very
delirium of rapture it produces, nay, in consequence of that delirium, is hostile to strictly
logical thought; the excitation approaches the character of an intuition; the glance, however
keen and farsighted, is not steady; it is restless, fitful, veering forever with the movements
of an unnatural stimulation; but when the exaltation has subsided, and the dread reaction and
nervous depression succeeded, this result is intensified a hundred fold, and gradually shapes
itself into a confirmed habit. Even if the use of opium was positively beneficial to the intellect,
still its dreadful havoc with the physical system would far more than outweigh its contributions
in that direction. But, so far is that from being the truth in the case, that opium, at best,
has only a revealing, a disclosing power; it cannot, even in the lowest sense of the term,
be called a creative lower. Let a man dream dreams as gorgeous as De Quincey's, it does not
at all follow that he can write like De Quincey; as related to literature, the grandeur of
dreams depends absolutely upon the dreamer's mastery of the narrative art, which the dreaming
faculty itself does not either presuppose or bestow. But, over and above all this, universal
experience has declared that the use of opium is fatally hostile to any very protracted mental
power. It ravages the mind no less fearfully than it does the body--precipitates both in one
common ruin; by it ordinary men are speedily degraded to hopeless impotence, and the most mighty
shorn of half their power--a swift-pursuing shadow closes suddenly and forever over the transient
gleam of unnatural splendor. These considerations account in part for De Quincey's discursiveness,
but perhaps not wholly. Discursiveness is not without its beauties. We believe in logic, but
still it is pleasant, at times, to see a writer sport with his subject, to see him gallop at
will, unconfined by the ring circle of strict severity. Nor is this all. Possibly the apparent
discursiveness may be only the preliminary journeying by which we are to secure some new and
startling view of the subject. Perhaps you may consider these initial movements needlessly
protracted and fatiguing; but trust your guide; whatever your private opinion, at the time,
may be, he will never miss the road, and when at last you are in the proper position for observation,
the thrill of unwonted pleasure will swallow up all memory of former efforts and former misgivings.
Occasionally such is not the case; for instance, in the papers on Sir William Hamilton. They
are three in number. Nearly half of the first is taken up in describing the difficulties under
which the writer suffers of communicating with his publishers; the nervous maladies that torment
his happiness; the limits of time and space so narrowly circumscribed. The same strain is taken
up in the second paper. We have short dissertations on the deadly 'hiatus in the harness which
should connect the pre-revolutionary with the post-revolutionary commonwealths of England;'
on the adjective old, and the aged noun civilation; then comes a general belaboring of athletes
and gymnasts, at which point Sir William fairly emerges into view; suddenly our author seems
to recollect that his space is fast diminishing, and concludes to 'take a rise out of something
or other' at once; sets down Sir William as a genuine logician, and immediately commences the
consideration of several ancient word puzzles, one of which is stated in a very business-like
manner: 'Vermin in account with the divine and long-legged Pelides.' Logic is pretty uniformly
the subject of the third paper, and no inferior acquaintance with the topic is displayed; but
we see very little of Sir William Hamilton in this miscellaneous collection. But unpardonable
wandering is of extremely rare occurrence; and, on the whole, the evils of discursiveness are
altogether outweighed by the positive advantages and beauties to which we have referred. To
this characteristic trait must be added another--the dramatic and cumulative manner in which
the subjects discussed are treated. That gives to De Quincey's style increased power and increased
beauty; artistic symmetry is superinduced upon solid excellence. This peculiarity is especially
noticeable in narratives where the element of horror is central, as in 'The Avenger.' The gentle
whisper rises, gradually and by insensible degrees, to the awful voice of the thunderbolt.
The prelude is calm enough, sweet enough, but soon the music ascends to a fiercer key; the
plot darkens; the crisis gathers; louder and more tumultuous waxes the fiendish tumult, until
all lesser passions are swallowed up, and the empire of a blank, rayless revenge is triumphant;
we are spellbound amid the successive stages of the demoniac tragedy; we start up convulsively,
as from the horrors of nightmare, at its ghastly catastrophe. But, over and above all this,
in that melody, in that music of style, which exalts prose to the dignity of poetry, De Quincey
is absolutely without a rival. Read the 'Confessions,' or the 'Autobiographic Sketches,' or
the touching tribute to the Maid of Orleans, and all doubt upon that point will disappear.
Besides, over the surface of his writings there ripples a quaint, genial humor, which is, for
the most part, kept within the limits of propriety by an exquisite taste. In marked contrast
to many of our most illustrious writers, De Quincey always exhibits a profound respect for
Christianity. Listen to his indignant rebuke of Kant, who, in his work on 'Religion within
the Limits of Pure Reason,' had expressed opinions so utterly atheistical as to draw forth
severe menaces from the reigning King of Prussia, Frederic William the Second: 'Surely, gray
hairs and irreligion make a monstrous union; and the spirit of proselytism carried into the
service of infidelity--a youthful zeal put forth by a tottering, decrepid old man, to withdraw
from desponding and suffering human nature its most essential props, whether for action or
suffering, for conscience or for hope, is a spectacle too disgusting to leave room for much
sympathy with merit of another kind.' Finally, we love De Quincey for his abhorrence of all
knavish or quackish men, and his deep respect for human nature. We suspect that but few dignitaries
of the past ever received so sound a 'knouting' as did that 'accursed Jew' Josephus, at his
hands; nor do Grotius and Dr. Parr fare much better. He believes Josephus to be a villain,
Grotius and Dr. Parr literary impostors, and he strips off their masks in a very summary manner.
But with the trials, the struggles, the miseries of humanity, no man more profoundly sympathizes
than Thomas de Quincey.

But we must close. We have found De Quincey a subtile philosopher, a mighty master of the historic
art, a prose poet of unrivalled splendor. To powers so versatile and extraordinary, combined
with learning so profound, and a style of such matchless brilliance, we believe that no other
writer of the present age can lay any great claims. Still we take our leave of that eccentric,
storm-tossed man of genius with feelings of profound regret. Great as his contributions to
literature are, he might have done vastly more. But nervous maladies blasted his hopes, overthrew
his colossal designs, and he evermore drifts down the ages a wreck--splendid, brilliant, the
admiration of all beholders--but none the less a wreck.

'FEED MY LAMBS.'

PART FIRST.

Harry has crept to his little bed, shivering with childish dread of the dark. Ungentle hands
have placed him there, guardians careless of his comfort and chary of kind words and looks,
and a coarse-voiced girl has said, as she took the light away, and banged the door behind her:

'Cry out loud, you little imp, and I'll send the black bears to catch you.'

So Harry is choking down his sobs, and crying silently, very silently. The chill and melancholy
night wind, as it comes moaning through the casement and rustling the light leaves of the tall
poplar as they rest against the window panes, and the great round tears as they fall with a
dull, heavy drop, drop on his lonely pillow, are the only sounds that break the dismal stillness,
excepting now and then, when a great sob, too mighty to be choked down, bursts from the little,
overcharged heart. And then Harry fancies he feels, through the thin coverlet and torn night
dress, the huge black paws of these same bears grasping the tender round shoulder, blue with
the cold, while the little boy lies there shivering and shuddering in an agony of apprehension.
Darkness above and around him, terrible, black, silent darkness; darkness which enwraps and
enfolds him and takes away his breath, like the heavy, stifling folds of a hideous black mantle;
darkness that the active imagination of the timid child peoples with phantom shapes, grotesque
and horrible--forms made unnaturally visible by their own light, that mouth and leer, and stretch
out distorted arms to seize him, whose appalling presence fills the room from floor to ceiling,
and which eddy and circle around him in horrid demon dances, whirling gradually nearer and
nearer, until myriads of hideous faces are thrust close to his own, or grin above him, while
he chokes for breath--forms that make the cold sweat stand on his baby forehead, and freeze
the blood in his veins, that he watches night after night, with his blue eyes starting from
their sockets and his hair standing on end, that make of the desolate nighttime a dread and
a horror! And there is no one to kneel beside his lonely bed and tell the frightened child,
sick with dread, that there are no such things as odious black dwarfs, who drag young children
off to dark and dismal dungeons by the hair of their head, nor great giants, who grow always
bigger as you look at them, and who eat up, at a mouthful, little boys who cry in the dark.
No tender mother bends low with all but divine compassion to listen to his little sorrows,
or soothe his childish fears--to teach him his simple prayers, or tell him sweet stories of
a little child like himself, before whose lowly cradle wise men bowed as at a shrine, and to
do whom reverence shining ones came from a far-distant country. There is no one to pillow his
curly head upon a loving bosom, and lull him to sleep with quaint old lullabies. Harry is worse
than motherless.

So on the night in question, as on all other nights preceding, poor Harry, worn out with fright
and weariness, is dropping to sleep from sheer exhaustion, closing his swollen eyes in troubled
slumber, when, half unconsciously turning his curly head upon the pillow to find a dry place
for the wet cheek to rest against, something bright and shining makes long lines of light in
the tears still wet on Harry's lashes, and wakes him up again.

Such a bright, beautiful star it is. One that has been slowly rising, climbing the blue outside,
until it reaches a break in the foliage of the tree before the window, and shines straight
into Harry's eyes. Something of that strange solemnity that fills minds of a maturer growth
when gazing on the starry heavens, hushes that baby's soul into reverence as he looks upon
it. The terrible shapes melt away into the gloom, he feels no dread of the dark now, and vaguely
and gradually there arises the first dim consciousness of the deep spiritual want within him--the
first awakened desire of the finite soul to see and find the Infinite Father and claim his
protection. Fragments of childish hymns, parts of simple prayers, such poor and scattered crumbs
of spiritual instruction as he has gleaned here and there somehow, and on which the infant
soul has been but meagrely fed, crowd in upon him. Then come wondering thoughts of that great
good Being, that strange, unfathomable mystery, whose name is God, Who lives up in the blue
somewhere, and yet is everywhere. This problem of Omnipresence he has pondered and pondered
over, and reasoned upon, in his childish fashion, but now it dawns with a newer and clearer
light on Harry's mind. God is everywhere. To his awakened spiritual perception this holy, mysterious,
and invisible presence seems pervading the sky, the air, the earth, filling and enfolding all
things. Night after night, as he had lain there sobbing and crying and thought himself all
alone in the darkness, this great good God had been with him all the time, and he had never
known it, never felt it until now; and, overwhelmed by the mighty thought, powerfully felt,
though imperfectly comprehended, awestruck Harry, tremulous with reverence, obedient to some
childish fancy that the name of father is not holy and reverent enough for such a Being, folds
his tiny hands, earnestly praying:

'Our Grandfather which art in heaven, stay near poor Harry in the dark, and keep the bears away!'

Is it faith or fancy, that soft, gentle, summery atmosphere that fills the room, and makes
the little, lonely heart thrill as with the pleasant consciousness of a loving presence? It
is real to Harry, with his child's undoubting faith. Stretching forth his rounded arms, and
clasping the dark, impalpable air in a joyous embrace, he nestles closely to the wet pillow
as if it were a loving bosom, and falls asleep with a smile upon his lip. A childhood robbed
of childish joys and pleasures, the little, insignificant trifles which form its sum of happiness,
denied the sympathetic love and tenderness which is the life of little hearts, deprived of
the pleasures suited to its state, yet too immature to turn within itself for comfort in its
need, its life without and within a dull, joyless, dreary blank--such was poor Harry's, for
a shadow dark and terrible rested on his baby heart and home, a something that darkened and
deepened day by day, and grew more and more insupportable as the weary time crept on. What
it was, and how long it had rested there before he became conscious of its presence, and whether
his miserable home had ever been free from it and ever been a happy one, little Harry never
knew. All his brief life it had lain there. Its shadow had crept into the violet eyes with
the first faint glimmer of intelligence, and when the new-born soul, mysterious breath of God,
first woke from its mystic dreaming, and looked consciously out upon the world into which it
had come, its baleful presence crept into that holy sanctuary, and darkened what should have
been cloudless as well as sinless. He had drawn it in with every breath from the atmosphere
of the little world around him; it rested on all he came in contact with, and gradually and
sadly there arose in the mind too immature to comprehend the cause and the nature of this desolating
power, yet feeling vaguely day by day its blighting effects, sorrowful and earnest questionings--questionings
like the following, to which there came back no answer to the little, suffering heart:

Why his home (if home it may be called in which the heart finds no resting place), the four
walls that enclosed the place where he ate and slept, was such a dull, joyless, lonesome spot?
What that dark something was that shadowed its light and took from it all joy and comfort,
causing every face within it to wear a melancholy or forbidding aspect? Why there was no glad
smile even on his father's lips, when he came to seek the sad young creatures that crept silently
to his knee and looked wistfully up into the care-worn face; and why, though loving and kind,
he was always kind with that sorrowful tenderness which makes sad hearts the sadder? Why this
craving that he feels within him, this half-undefined, insatiable longing for maternal love
and sympathy? What had sealed from the thirsting heart this purest fountain of earthly tenderness?

A mother's form was present to him day by day, but where was the maternal heart of love which
should have beat within that bosom? 'Can a mother forget her children?' There is a fell and
terrible destroyer, which murders peace in hearts and homes, whose very breath is a mildew
and a blight, in whose desolating track follow woe, want, and ruin; a fierce, insatiable appetite,
trebly cursed, that makes of life a loathsome degradation, and fills dishonored graves, blighting
all that is divine and godlike in human nature, sealing the gushing fountain of maternal tenderness,
and teaching even a mother's heart forgetfulness. O God! of what punishment shall thy justice
deem those worthy, who, by cold neglect, cruelty, or shameful slavery to such a passion, shut
out the light, and check the rich and limitless expansion of all that is divine in the souls
committed to their charge? Ah! what did it matter that there were honorable titles affixed
to the name so disgraced, that in the home thus blighted were all the luxuries and appliances
of wealth, that rare pictures hung against its walls, carpets covered the floors whose velvet
surface muffled the footfalls, costly curtains shut out the too garish light, that servants
were at command, well paid to take care of the neglected children, paid to care for the house,
and all fine things within it, and--paid to keep its secrets! What did all this matter to the
miserable possessor of wealth and name, the disgraced husband, the heart-broken father? He
could comprehend this woe in all its bearings, could measure the length, the breadth, the depth
of the curse that had lighted upon him? Homes there were whose walls and floors were bare,
whose windows were shaded by no costly curtains, but from which happy faces looked--lowly homes,
poor in this world's wealth, but rich in domestic peace and love; and for the blessed quiet
of their lowly hearthstones, he would joyfully have bartered wealth and fame, and all such
dross as men call happiness. And Harry saw them too. The little, lonely heart, saddened by
a shadow it could not comprehend, from its own gloomy home turned longingly to their homely
cheerfulness, as flowers turn to the light.

One in particular had attracted his childish notice. It was just across the road; he could
see it from the window of the nursery where he played, and he used to leave his play to watch
it. Such glimpses of a happy home had streamed through its opening portals and fallen on the
heart of the little solitary watcher like a benison. What hasty peeps he took at its homely
brightness as the door opened and closed, and what long, long looks he bestowed upon it, when
it stood open for hours together, as it did now in the fine June weather! It was only a simple
cottage. Too unpretending for hall or entry, the little parlor opened into the street, and
from the window where he stood, Harry could see straight into it. There it was, with its bright
papered walls, and gay red carpet, its deep low window seat looking like a garden, where flowers
bloomed and frail exotics stretched forth their delicate leaves to bathe in the sunlight that
came streaming in, and cunning little yellow birds, in quaint, tiny cages, sang the long day
through. And there--oh, busy fingers! making neat and bright the little home--heart of love,
shedding blessed sunlight around it--there, so busy and blithe, so happy and gay, sat the presiding
genius of the place, with a face so bright and good--just such a face as you would expect to
see in such a home; one that sad and disappointed mortals, meeting in the street, would turn
to for a second look, and bless it as it passed; a face to which childhood cleaves instinctively,
sure of ready sympathy with its little joys and sorrows; one that would never be disfigured
by envy or malice; never grow black with passion, and oh! never, never look senseless, idiotic,
and drivelling, as another face on which he looked so often did; but to Harry's fancy, it was
like the sky on a calm summer's day, always pure and bright, and always the same. It was brighter
and happier and better altogether when, in the fresh morning time, the little lady went tripping
by on the pavement beneath the window with a small market basket on her arm. Then Harry, clambering
to the sill, and leaning out, could see straight into it; and sometimes it happened that, attracted
by that fixed gaze of earnest admiration, that happy face would be turned upward, and break
into a beaming smile, as the sunny eyes met the large, blue, mournful orbs looking down upon
them. Then there would be a smile on the lip and a song in the heart of the little watcher
for the rest of the day. Cheering and dear as that face had ever been to him since he had first
had the happiness of beholding it, much as he had watched and loved it, it had drawn him with
a more potent attraction still and grown doubly dear of late. He had been within the sacred
precincts of a true home; he had breathed that atmosphere of heaven; he knew how that small,
snug, cosy room looked to its inmates now. Yes, he had been there, and his going in chanced
in the following manner:

This lady, whose cheerful presence was fast becoming a benison to Harry, had, among her other
bright possessions, a rosy-cheeked, laughing-eyed, frolicsome mischief, about Harry's age,
and he had recently come from the country happier, merrier, and fresher than ever, having still,
as it were, about him the fragrant breath of the wood-violets, the purity of the unvitiated
air, the freedom of the broad, green fields, the fragrant atmosphere of all the delightful
things with which he had been so recently in contact.

One morning, not long after his coming, the cross girl who put Harry to bed at night, marshalled
him and his brother out (as was her wont in fine weather) for a dreary promenade, which usually
agreeable exercise consisted in the present instance in marching down a dusty stone pavement,
by a long, unbroken line of brick buildings, up one street, and down another (for they always
went the same way), until they came to a huge, dreary-looking schoolhouse, where they left
Charley, and came back more drearily than they went. Well, on this particular morning, Charley
had forgotten his slate, and he and the girl returning to search for it left Harry at the gate
to await their return. The little urchin, just at that precise moment, spying Harry solus,
and impelled by the agreeable prospect of a playfellow, rushed across the street, at the imminent
danger of being run over, to scrape acquaintance.

'Come, and play with me,' cried the little fellow, bounding up to Harry in all the ardor of
a glowing anticipation, eagerly folding one thin hand in both his dimpled ones, and flashing
a whole flood of sunlight into the sad young eyes that so timidly met his sunny ones. 'Come,
and play with me, do! and we'll play at horse and build mud houses, and ma'll give us lots
of candy and raisins, and a great big doughnut, ever so big, as big as my hands and your hands,
and all our hands put together.'

'I can't,' said Harry, sadly resigning all thought of these rare dainties. 'Betty'll scold so!'

'We'll sit on the bank under the willow at the back of the house,' pursued the tempter, folding
the hand he held still tighter within his own, 'where she can't see us; and when she comes
to take you away, I'll bite her.'

The youthful pleader had unconsciously used the most potent argument possible. Harry wavered.
To sit on a green bank under a willow, with such a sunny-faced companion as that, and listen
to the birds singing in the branches, and the rustling of the leaves--to look up through the
green, and see patches of blue sky through breaks in the foliage--and then, too, oh, blessed
hope! to see the lady whom he regarded with such enthusiastic and reverent devotion, and to
whose love he clung with all the wild tenacity of a desolate heart--to see her smile, and hear
her speak--to him, perhaps; all this rose like a glorious vision before Harry, and the possibility
of its realization sent the light to his eyes and the color to his face.

The contemplated walk in the hot, dusty streets, with the cross Betty--(which tyrannical young
female, having brought the children, as it were, under military rule, and being a rigid disciplinarian,
seldom failed to punish some fancied dereliction of duty by sundry shakes and pinches as they
went along)--this prospect, placed beside the bright, cool picture his fancy had conjured up,
seemed more unendurable than ever. With one quick glance toward the house, to see if that ogre,
having in custody that form a little taller and face a little older and sadder than his own,
was making her appearance, Harry, seized by an irresistible impulse, and still holding fast
the chubby hand that had taken his so confidingly, bounded from the pavement, dashed across
the road, and both dashed through the garden and into the cosy parlor in a trice, panting like
young racehorses. And there, in the brightest spot of the snug, bright room, by that bower
of a window, sat the sunny-faced lady whom Harry's childish imagination had exalted into a
superior being. Abashed at having so rudely rushed into that revered presence, Harry stood
shyly by the door, trembling with embarrassment, while his more active companion, releasing
his hand, bounded across the room, and, clambering up into his mother's lap and putting his
arms around her neck and his rosebud of a mouth close to her ear, commenced a whispered explanation.

There was something strangely attractive in that mother's face, as she pushed back the clustering
hair, after smilingly listening to the story, and pressed a fervent kiss upon that baby brow--a
look which had never been on any face for him, but which he had dreamed of at night, and longed
for by day, with a strange, undefined, half-conscious longing. It was as if he had found something
he had been blindly searching, something for which the solitary heart had vaguely felt an ever-present
need; and the timid child, forgetting his timidity, his awe of the presence into which he had
come--forgetting all but his heart's great need--in a burst of pathetic longing, more sorrowful
than tears, cried:

'Give me a kiss, too, just one!'

He was across the room and in her arms in a moment. Blessings on the true mother's heart! it
gave not one kiss, but a dozen. Ah! feeling the blessing of those tears upon his head, pressed
close against the breast throbbing with pure maternal sympathy, his own starved heart eagerly
drinking from that overflowing fountain, the word mother rose naturally to his lips then.--Alas
for her from whom alone that beating heart, throbbing with a new delight, should have received
that revelation! Alas for the heart thus robbed of its lawful heritage, to whom the highest
and holiest of earth's affection had manifested itself but as a brutish instinct, which, in
fits of maudlin tenderness, could fold the little form in a loathsome embrace, and smother
the pure breath with drunken kisses! No other love, however high and pure it may be, can atone
to the wronged heart that has been cruelly robbed of this.

In this new-found joy all heavy sorrows were forgotten. Pressed close against that sympathetic
bosom, he was happy now, happier than he had ever been before; and when at last she wiped her
tears away, and, lifting the hand on which his grateful tears were falling (for Harry cried
too), and smilingly up-turning the tear-wet face to meet her own, that face was so changed
by joy that she hardly knew it, and Harry wondered why it was that she laughed and cried together
when she looked at it, and kissed him over and over again more times than he could count. Laughing
and chatting gayly until she saw her own smiles reflected on the little, sorrowful features,
she, with a tender mother's care, bathed the flushed face, combed out the bright silky hair,
smoothed and arranged the rumpled dress, and, taking the small hand, went out to the garden
gate to meet the expedition sent in search of Harry.

Now this was his red-letter day. Harry was in luck. Therefore it was not one of the many servants
of the establishment, or any straggling acquaintance that had joined in the search. Luckily,
it was not one of these, or the cross Betty, who first espied Harry and the lady: otherwise
he would have been borne away from his friend and his recently discovered Eden in triumph,
in spite of all cries and protestations. It was Harry's own papa; and it did not take many
words, when the bright-faced lady was the pleader (backed by that little face, with that strange
flush of joy upon it, that spoke more eloquently to the father's heart than any words could
have done), to induce that gentleman to allow Harry to remain where he was all day; likewise
to extort a promise that he might come to see the lady whenever and as often as she chose to
trouble herself with the care of him: and this being nicely arranged, Harry's papa went his
way and they went theirs. And Harry did that day what is seldom done in this world of disappointment--more
than realized his anticipations. He sat on the bank and heard the birds sing; he played at
horse until he was tired; and though he did not build mud houses, he ate sugar ones, which
was, in every respect, a vast improvement on the original design; and, what was more than all,
his little playfellow, whose temper was as sunny as his face, never gave him a cross word or
look the whole day through. They had supper, when the time came, under the rustling leaves
of a huge green tree; and there were raisins and nuts and candy, cakes grotesquely cut and
twisted into every conceivable shape, and every imaginable dainty. All through that memorable
day, Harry was the happiest of the happy. Other days succeeded this that were but a thought
less bright. A time had come when the rough path seemed smooth to the little pilgrim's feet,
and flowers sprang up by the lonely wayside, and golden sunlight fell through the rifted clouds
and crowned the little head with its blessing, and light and warmth crept into the chilled
and desolate life, and made existence beautiful: a brief and joyful time, on which was written,
as on all bright things of earth, those words of mournfulness unutterable: 'Passing away!'

PART SECOND.

It is that hour of day's decline when the turbulent roar from the city's busy mart is hushed
into a lazy hum, when a peaceful, quiet calm breathes through the atmosphere and settles on
the noisy earth, as if all things were hushed into tranquil silence at thought of the coming
twilight's holy hour. The sun's red, slanting rays fall on the dusty pavement in front of that
gloomy, stately mansion which Harry calls his home, enter a richly furnished room where the
blinds are thrown open and the curtains looped back, and with their fervent glow rest compassionately
upon a drooping female figure, upon a bent head bowed in shame, a head still young, whose wealth
of rich black tresses passion and remorse have already marked with gray. Sin-stricken, woe-stricken,
and remorseful, feeling how inefficient is even her mother's love, how powerless every earthly
consideration to hold her back from ruin; stretching out palsied hands to Heaven for help;
racked by the fierce fires of repentance, her tortured soul corroded by remorse, she mourns
passionately but unavailingly.

Oh! there are hours like this in the hidden history of every fallen and degraded son of Adam,
when the scales are removed from the spiritual eyes, and the sin-stained soul shiveringly beholds
the depth to which it has fallen, and shrinks back appalled at the sight; when the demon has
departed for a season, and evil thoughts and evil influences are cast out, and, feeling their
power returning with repentance, angels come to minister unto the sorrowing one. Gentle guardians
are there, who have watched it all its life through, striven with all the means that lie within
the grasp of a spirit's power to stay it on its downward course and bring the lost soul back.
Ah! 'Love's labor lost.' Ineffectual these oft-repeated efforts may be, ineffectual through
all time they doubtless will be; but who shall say in the 'land of the undying' that the work
of ministering love shall not continue? What man is that, that in an hour like this can look
upon his brother, prostrate in spirit, racked with remorse, no matter how vile and polluted,
and can say anguish like this shall be that soul's undying portion in the long hereafter; that
God's justice requires infinite punishment for a finite crime; that, when freed from its earthly
body, the ears of the All-Compassionate shut out that soul's despairing cry for pardon? Who
shall limit infinite mercy? Who shall set bounds to Divine compassion, or think that, toiling
painfully and slowly up the endless heights of progression, there shall not be a time away
onward in the solemn future, hidden in the dim mists of ages yet to come, when that soul shall
be cleansed from its pollution, freed from its mourning, sin entirely cast out, and God shall
be all and in all?

The light breeze, as it sways the loose heavy tresses, wafts to her ear a strain of distant
music. All the drowsy afternoon it has been playing, lost almost entirely at first in the busy
hum of the streets and in the long lull of the lazy wind--a strain only caught at rare intervals
when the breeze is strong enough to bear it to her. It has been slowly approaching as the hours
creep on, advancing a few steps at a time. Ballads and simple ditties, dances, waltzes, grand
old marches! with that unaccountable attraction for trifles which the mind often experiences
in its hours of suffering, mechanically, one after another, she has traced them all. Now the
varied tones cease to pervade the atmosphere, and there is a long resting pause. When the music
begins again, it is on the pavement, almost beneath the window, and the old musician, perhaps
unconsciously wrought upon by the silent influence of the hour, has merged from the gay to
the pathetic, and plays only sad little pieces in the minor key. Presently from the multitude
of sweet sounds there arises on the air a song lower and sadder than the others--a strange,
pathetic melody, falling on the ear like a low, plaintive wail, broken by keen throbs of agony:
her whole nature beats in responsive echo. O God! gone so far down the dreary road which has
darkly led her from that time of purity and peace when that song was nightly sung to her; after
so many weary years of sin and suffering, to hear those notes again! It is but a simple thing
which has the power so to move her, a mere nothing; half dirge, half hymn, familiar to her
long-forgotten childhood, once sung by her mother as a cradle song! With her wretched face
buried in her hands, she hears it, and clearly the past rises before her: her childhood in
its innocence; her girlhood in its purity; her womanhood, her motherhood in its degradation!
All the holier part of what was once herself; all that was true and noble, womanly and pure,
from the deep waters of oblivion to which that damning appetite has consigned them, rise to
haunt her now, pale, wan, and spectre-like. Oh! to sit down, side by side with her former self;
to see herself as she used to be before the tempter crept into the Eden of her heart; to look
despairingly up to the height whence she had fallen, so wrecked in moral strength that she
had not the power to retrace a single step! Peace departed, virtue lost, health undermined,
affection squandered, ruthlessly murdering the peace of one whose life through all the time
of its sad earth-sojourning is linked with hers; cursing the home she should have blessed and
brightened, making of that fair garden, wherein sweet domestic graces should have bloomed and
blossomed as the rose, but a desolate and barren waste, knowing that hearts, little hearts,
that had drawn their life-beat from her own, had starved and sickened for the love which is
their rightful food;--with senses bleared and deadened, she had heard them piteously wailing
but for a morsel of that bread of life without which even the footsteps of the self-reliant,
the strong and brave of heart, faint and falter by the way, and she had cruelly denied them
that precious nutriment; she had given them life, but had robbed them of all that makes life
endurable. Life's duties unfulfilled, life's high and holy aims trampled under the foot of
sensual indulgence, living to blight instead of to bless! O woman, wife, and mother, thy life
when lived aright a crucifixion of the flesh, a sublime self-sacrifice--not for thee the pleasures
of sense and time, not for thee may peal earth's songs of triumph! Fainting oft beneath the
burden of the cross, we trace thy way by bloody footprints, suffering as a saint;--falling
from thy estate, how terrible will be thy retribution as a sinner!

Hark! There is the patter of little feet ascending the staircase, coming down the long upper
hall. To the repentant mother's ears what music so sweet as that? She listens breathlessly.
Was it thought of her that had impelled them thither? Would they approach her room? Since she
had grown more and more repulsive day by day, since those fits of drunken passion had become
a thing of fearful frequency, and those little ones had suffered from their violence, and learned
to fear her, they had come but seldom--never alone; but they are approaching now, shyly, hesitatingly,
as if afraid to come, but still approaching--pausing at the very threshold. The burning tears
force their way through the clenched fingers--the sound of the little feet has given her power
to pray. Though angels fail in the work of redemption, there may yet be power in the little
hands to hold her back. She does not rise to open the door, but sits choking down her sobs,
and listening to the turning, twisting, shaking of the door knob, to a dozen failures in unskilful
attempts to enter, every movement of the little hand sending a strange thrill of mingled pain
and pleasure through the overburdened heart.

It opens at last, and Harry stands upon the threshold, looking timidly in. Ah! no maudlin sorrow,
no senseless, idiotic mirth, no disgusting stupor disfigures the face on which he gazes. Its
depth of hopeless, despairing tenderness, so eloquently accompanied by the pathetic movement
of the outstretched hands, almost frightens him by its intensity; but, in obedience to the
motion, he comes forward, half-fearfully proffering the flower he holds in his hand.

'A flower sent to her by a lady who was so kind,' he tremblingly explains, 'one that he loves
so dearly!'

It is the lily, the emblem of purity. She takes it from him, lays it on the table behind her,
out of sight, a sullen glow of resentment at the gift mingling with the sorrow of her face
as she does so. What mother had fathomed her shameful secret, and dared to send her child to
her with a gift like that? Some one that is fast gaining the place she should have occupied
in his heart! One that is fast winning away from her the love she so much needs to aid her
in the desired reformation. She notes how the little face softens and brightens when he speaks
of her, and a sharp pang of jealousy shoots through her heart. The fact that she has never
sought to win that heart to herself by kindness, that she has forfeited her child's respect,
and never deserved its love, only increases her resentment and adds poignancy to the pang.
She feels the slight form start and shiver with a strange, fearful repulsion as she places
it on her lap. Would the strong natural affection nature had implanted there, so cruelly crushed
out, now nearly if not quite dead, arise anew to life, and grow stronger than this repulsion?
That is the question to be answered now. Ah! if there were but a spark remaining, were it only
a poor, feeble, smouldering flame, it would have the power, she felt, to light her to higher
and better things. With a thrill of pure maternal love, a stranger to her heart, whose holiest
impulses, deadened by reckless indulgence, have degenerated into instincts, she folds the little
form closer to her, in spite of its shuddering, and, looking into the upturned face (O mother,
miserably blind), reads understandingly for the first time the hunger of heart so legibly written
on every speaking feature. With the sharp arrow of conviction that pierces her soul at the
sight, comes a voice appealing to its inmost recesses, a voice speaking those words spoken
by the great heart of Divine Compassion, eighteen hundred years ago; those words of tenderest
pleading: 'Feed my lambs!' How had she fed those committed to her charge? The wan, thin, sorrowful
face, the little heart finding no joy in life, grown weary before its time, best answer that
question. Aided by her aroused spiritual perceptions, she reads now all too truthfully the
sad, sad record of the heart-breaking loneliness of the life she has made desolate; and, pressing
the wronged heart close against her own, the keen remorse of her soul bursts forth in a low
moan of irrepressible anguish:

'Oh, my child! my little, little, little child!'

Studying the face bent over him as children learn to study the faces of those whom they have
reason to fear, whose kindness is at best capricious, and finding nothing but sorrow and tenderness
in it, he began to fear it less: thankful even for a brief season of kindness, the solitary
child laid the pale cheek close against his mother's, and twined the thin arms about her neck.
It was a strange and blissful sensation for that mother to feel them clinging there. In her
softened mood it made the tears fall hot and fast, to think how strange it was.

'What made Harry think of coming to see ma to-day?' she said at last, brushing them hurriedly away.

'A lady gave me that flower, mamma, and told me to bring it to you.'

A pause and a closer pressure--then she questioned nervously:

'What lady is it, Harry? Where does she live? How came you to know her, darling?'

Harry hesitated. He noticed the dark shadow that swept across her face at every reference to
his new-found friend, and, with a child's intuitive perception, he saw the subject gave her
pain. Striving with ready tact to draw her attention from it to himself, he went back to the
beginning, to give her a sort of history of how he came to form the acquaintance.

'Mamma,' he said timidly, twining his arms still closer around her neck, and speaking in a
slow, hesitating way, as if he feared that this would give her pain also, 'our house, you know,
is a very lonesome place. Oh, so very lonesome!--just like a day when the sun won't shine,
and the rain comes dark and slow. Well, ma, it was always bad enough, but when Charley went
away to school, and you stayed up here more than ever, and Betty got crosser than ever, you
can't think how lonesome it was! Pa used to bring me playthings at first, but I felt so bad
I couldn't play with them. I felt all the time as if I wanted something, and,' glancing piteously
up into his mother's face, and laying his little hand upon his heart, 'as if I was so hungry
here. Well, I used to climb up at the window and watch the people going by, and wonder and
wonder what the matter was.' He waited as if half expecting an answer; but a stifled sob was
the only reply. 'Looking out the window and seeing other people, I found out after a while
that we were different from everybody else. Other mothers who had little boys like me, always
took their little boys with them when they went to walk. All the sunshiny days they went walking
up and down--walking up and down; and the mothers were not cross like Betty, and the little
boys were not lonesome like me, but had such red, chubby cheeks, and looked happy 'most all
the time. The first day I found this out, when Betty took me away from the window, and stood
me up before the glass to comb my hair, and I looked in and saw what a face I had, I cried
and cried. Then the mothers would smile and look pleased whenever their little boys spoke to
them, and seemed to love them so much, that I wanted them to love me too; and I used to throw
little things out of the window sometimes, so that they would look up and smile at me.'

Ah! the young, tender heart, living, as yet, only by the affections, that required such a wealth
of love to fill it! The little outcast heart depending on casual passers by for a stray word
or look of comfort, striving to feed itself on such poor, miserable crumbs as these! It made
the mother's face grow white with anguish to think of that.

'Well, about just such a time every morning, when Charley had gone to school, and I sat by
the window as lonesome as lonesome could be, on the sidewalk under the window there always
came a lady who was kinder to me than the other ladies, who always looked up and smiled. Such
a beautiful lady, ma, with a face as kind as pa's, and a great deal more smiling; you'd love
her if you saw her; I know you would--you couldn't help it. And ma,' and here Harry's enthusiasm
died out, and his voice took a sadder tone, 'she's got a little boy, just about as big as I
am, and she always takes him with her when she goes out, just like the other ladies. And--and
ma'--the low voice had a frightened tone in it, as if the little one feared he was venturing
too far.

'Yes, Harry.'

'I thought--that--that--'

'What, darling?'

'That if you would go out to walk yourself sometimes, and take us with you, Charley and me,
that we shouldn't be so different from everybody else, and it wouldn't be quite so lonesome here.'

A long pause followed--a frightened pause on Harry's part. Venturing, after a little while,
to look into his mother's face, its sadness, unmixed with anger reassured him, and he proceeded:

'That was the lady who sent you the flower. She lives in a little white house just across the
road. One day, when Betty took me out for a walk, I ran away and went there; and I have been
there a good many times since. It's a little house, ma, a very little house. There are no bright
pictures or beautiful carpets in it; but they are never lonesome there. She is as kind to her
little boy every day as you are to me now. It's a long time, ma, since you kissed me and held
me on your lap, and acted as if you loved me! Oh, mamma!' He laid the pale cheek, wet with
grateful tears, close against her own. 'Why a'n't you good to me always? I love you now, but
I don't love you always; I can't love you always, ma. That day when you frightened me so, when
you pulled my hair, threw me down on the floor, and whipped me till the blood ran, I didn't
like you for a long time then, you hurt me so.'

The grief of the wretched mother burst forth anew in sobs and tears.

'Oh, Harry! oh, my poor, poor child! Did ma do that?'

'Don't cry, ma, oh, don't cry; I don't think you meant to do it. There is something that changes
you, that makes you cross and strange. And ma'--the timid voice sank away to a low, frightened
whisper, broken and tremulous with tears.

'Yes, dearest.'

'You won't be angry, dear mamma?'

'No, love, no.'

He hid his face on her shoulder, sobbing:

'It's something that you drink. They never have it there, in that little house,' pursued Harry
in a voice choked with rushing tears. 'They never have it anywhere where they are happy. Oh,
mamma! If you'd only send it away, if you'd throw it away, if you would put it out of sight;
oh, my dear, dear mamma, if you would never look at it, never taste it, never, never drink
it any more!' In the energy of his supplication he twined the little arms still closer and
closer about her neck--his tears fell like rain upon her bosom. That baby face, eloquent with
entreaty and wet with tears! She could not bear to see it. Crimson with shame, she hid her
own in her outstretched hands. 'She never drinks it. I've watched her; she drinks coffee sometimes,
water sometimes, tea 'most always. Ma, if you must drink something, why wouldn't tea do just
as well?'

She folded her arms about the little form, and clasped it to her bosom. Her face was lighted
with a high resolve, the heart against which her child's was pressed was throbbing with a lofty
impulse.

'It would, my darling, it would; with God's help, it shall. Here in His holy presence, I solemnly
promise, if there is any strength in good resolutions, if there is any power of good left within
me, if God will not utterly forsake one who has so long forsaken her better nature, never,
never, from this time, henceforth and forever, to touch, taste, or look upon the accursed thing.'

That night, at the foot of the tall poplar, the flickering sunlight falling through the leaves
on his head, making the brown hair golden where it fell, Harry sat watching the coming of his
brother. He had not long to wait; in a little while the red, slanting rays fell on that other
head of darker brown. The well-known form appeared at the gateway, and Harry went bounding
down the gravel walk to meet him.

'Ma wants to see you,' panted the little brother. 'She wanted you to come up to her room as
soon as ever you got home. She sent me to tell you so.'

The message was such an unusual one, he was so flushed and excited, so proud to give it, and
the look of joy shining in the pale face was such a stranger to it, that the great brown eyes
of the elder brother opened wide in silent wonder, and the excited Harry had caught him by
both hands, and was dragging him by main force toward the house before he had recovered from
his astonishment sufficiently to speak.

'I don't want to go,' cried the unwilling Charley, ruefully drawing back. 'I don't want to
go, Harry. Why does she want to see me? What makes her want to see me? I a'n't done nothing
to be whipped for!'

'Oh! it isn't that,' returned the little fellow eagerly. 'We a'n't going to be whipped any
more, unless we're real naughty, and then not very hard; and ma is going to send Betty away,
and we a'n't going to be scolded any more; and she's going to take us to walk and ride with
her sometimes, as the other mothers do. Why,' cried the eager child, all glowing at the delightful
prospect, 'Why, Charley, we're going to be happy now.'

'Oh, I don't believe we are,' sadly sighed the more experienced Charley, scratching his curls
disconsolately, and looking at his brother in a maze of perplexity and doubt. 'I've thought
we were going to be happy a great many times, but we a'n't been never, and I don't believe
we ever will be. The first thing I remember was being lonesome, and I've been as lonesome as
could be ever since. No, no; we shall never be happy. Ta'n't no use thinking about being happy,'
and the forlorn child threw himself upon the grass in a hopeless and dejected manner. 'But
they do say, Harry,' he continued, looking up through the leaves at the blue vault above him,
'that there's a place up yonder somewhere where good people go when they die, and where everybody
is happy. I've thought, since I heard about it, that perhaps some people went there without
dying. If they do, Harry, and I can only find out the way, I'd leave this mean old place, and
go there straight, this very minute. I'd like to have you and pa come, Harry; but ma is always
scolding or whipping us for something. I don't like ma, and I don't care whether she ever gets
there or not. Come to think of it,' pursued Charley, as a new thought seemed to strike him,
'I had a good deal rather she wouldn't come; for if she did find out the way, and come up there
after a while, like as any way she'd bring a switch with her.'

'You shouldn't talk so about ma, Charley,' said his meek-eyed brother. 'She isn't cross always.
She has been kind to me to-day, so kind,' said the little fellow, stemming with his fingers
two great round drops that were slowly running down his cheeks, 'that it makes the tears come
to think about it. I was with her a great long while, and she didn't scold or speak cross once.
Why, only think, Charley,' he proceeded, opening his eyes, as if the fact about to be communicated
could never be sufficiently wondered at, 'we were all alone together for ever so long, and
she might have got angry and whipped me just as well as not, and pa would never know anything
about it.'

'It's a wonder she didn't,' scornfully returned his brother; 'it would have been such a nice
chance. She don't get such a chance as that every day. There wouldn't have been any fun in
it if she had, though; for I tell you what it is,' he continued, looking about on his hands
for sundry marks and dents left thereon by the nails of his mother, 'I tell you what it is,
Harry, when she gets hold of a feller, she digs right in. She pounds us more than half the
time for just nothing at all, only because she gets mad and likes to do it. To be sure, I get
mad myself sometimes, and say ugly words, and ought to be whipped; but you, you never do anything
to be whipped for, and she,' proceeded the indignant little fellow, with an emphasis of immeasurable
scorn on that personal pronoun, 'she to go to work and pound a little, pale fellow like you!
Why, she ought to be ashamed of herself. I get so mad sometimes when she gets to whipping us,
and pa comes to take us away, that I think if he would pound her just as hard as she pounds
us, and just long enough to let us see how good it feels, I wouldn't care a bit--I'd just like
it: but he don't never; he only trembles all over and gets very white, sets her down in a chair,
and takes us out of the room--buys us playthings, or tells us stories to stop our crying, and
that's the end of it until next time.'

Poor Harry! the color had faded from his face, the light from his eyes. That deep shadow of
inexpressible mournfulness had again crept into them. Memory of such scenes, as are never garnered
up in the breasts of happy childhood, shadowed his face and heart. His short-lived happiness
was over. He made no reply to his brother, but sat motionless, gazing at the sky with a searching,
yearning, far-off gaze. Looking at the two young faces turned upward, it would have been hard
to say which was the saddest. Young as they were, traces of the working of the curse which
had blighted their lives, were plainly visible in both. Both were equally pale and thoughtful,
both robbed of the brightness and gayety belonging to their years, only varying in expression
as they varied in temperament. The look of meek and patient endurance on the face of the younger
spoke of a nature that wrong and suffering might crush, but could never rouse to anger or resentment--of
a heart that would break, if must be, but would patiently lie down and die. The scornful defiance
flashing ever and anon in the face of the elder brother, the immeasurable bitterness mingling
with its sadness, showed a proud and fiery temperament that could be goaded to desperation.

'But she shall never strike me many times more,' continued Charley, with suppressed indignation.
After a pause, during which, with compressed lip and clouded brow, he had been resentfully
dwelling upon the pain and humiliation consequent upon the blows he had received: 'Never! never!
for I don't care if it is wrong, if pa does tell me not to do it, I don't care if she is my
mother; after I get just a little bigger, when she strikes me, I'm going to strike back again.'

These vengeful threats exciting no answering comments from his brother, Charley turned to look
at him. A strange prophetic chill swept across the intuitional soul, and filled it with vague,
shuddering apprehension.

'Harry, don't look that way; Harry, come back to yourself! Oh, Harry! take your eyes from the
sky and look at me. You frighten me so!' cried Charley, in a voice tremulous with agitation.

The consciousness of his surroundings had dawned so slowly on the rapt soul, the patient face
had turned toward his brother's so calmly, he was so meek and quiet, so undemonstrative usually,
that he was totally unprepared for the wild burst of passionate weeping with which Harry threw
himself upon his neck.

'Oh! Charley, Charley, I cannot find it, I cannot see the land you talk of. I know it must
be there, where the sky is clear and the sun is shining; but I've been looking, and I can't
see it anywhere. Oh! Charley, where is it? Where is the place up yonder where they are good
and happy? Show me the way there, show me the way. I don't want to stay here,' sobbed Harry,
coming back to his own hopeless self again; 'I want to go somewhere where folks don't have
to be lonesome all the time; I don't know what dying is, but if dying will do it, I want dying
to take me there.'

He had drawn his brother toward him, wiped his tears away with his own little apron, and soothed
him as well as his agitation would permit, striving, amid the tumult of his thoughts, to gather
up such meagre scraps of information as he had gleaned upon the subject, and put it into intelligible
words, when, from a window almost hidden by the leaves of the tree under which they were sitting,
they heard a voice calling to them, a familiar voice, but with a new tone in it, which quickens
their pulse-beat, and makes their hearts throb with a sweet joy. Dimly visible through the
foliage, a familiar face is looking down upon them, loving and tender as any mother's face
should be; and with that look, the strong instinctive love for her which nature had implanted
in their hearts awoke in all its strength. Pride, anger, sorrow, were all alike forgotten.
To her loving call there came from eager lips the ready response:

'Yes, mamma; we are coming, dear mamma.'

Those who are blessed with golden memories of a happy childhood, perchance but lightly prize
Heaven's brightest, choicest gift. Those who have never felt the hungering and thirsting of
a heart deprived of sympathy and kindness, the desolate pining of that state more sorrowful
than orphanage, can but feebly, faintly guess how tender tones and soft caresses, loving words
and looks, such common blessings as awaken in the happy thought of gratitude, were treasured
up in these lonely hearts as gifts of priceless value, or measure the deep thankfulness which
thrilled them as they knelt side by side at their mother's knee, and said their prayers in
the deepening twilight that summer night.

They had a table spread before the open window, and had their supper in their mother's room,
and, as the light sank into darkness, with an arm thrown around each little form caressingly,
and a brown head resting on each shoulder, they sat beside her on the sofa, and listened as
she told them, in language suited to their childish comprehension, of the coming joys in store
for them, of what a happy home their future home should be, now that she had resolutely parted
from the curse that had destroyed their peace, and forever turned her back against it;--listened
as she drew glowing pictures of the walks and rides they would take, of the varied pleasures
they would enjoy together, pleasures it should be her pleasing task to plan. They had nothing
to damp their enjoyment, for she had dismissed Betty, and with her own hands undressed and
bathed them, and robed them for the night; and they enjoyed it all, not with the keen zest,
the careless hilarity of childhood, but with the subdued and thoughtful gravity seen in beings
of maturer years, to whose lot has fallen more of the sorrows than the joys of life, and who
receive happiness, when at rare intervals it comes to them, with a tremulous thankfulness,
as if fearful of entertaining so strange a guest; and when at last it ended, as all happy seasons
must, and both tired heads rested on one pillow, Harry whispered to his brother:

'There is nothing to be sorry for now, Charley. She will never drink that dark stuff any more--I
know she never will; she will never forget the promise she has made.'

Then the drowsy eyes, ere they closed, sought the dim night sky for that star, the brightest
in the blue above him, which had revealed itself through his tears, when alone in the darkness
he had first learned to pray, and, gazing on it, and on the sky beyond, where a happier home
than any earthly one is proffered, murmured to himself, with a peaceful smile:

'Oh! we shall be so happy, so very, very, very happy!'

PART THIRD.

She promised. Oh, frail and sandy foundation, on which to build bright hopes of earthly happiness!
Only for four brief weeks, one happy month, that solemn promise was faithfully remembered.
Of the effort that even this short period of abstinence had cost her, of the burning thirst
which tortured her by day and night, the fierce desire that battled with and almost overcame
her feeble resolution when the enthusiasm that had at first upheld her died away, of the suffering
of those weary weeks of conflict, only those can tell who, heroes every one, like her, have
battled with this fierce spiritual Apollyon, and who, unlike her, have overcome. Hour by hour
the maddening desire of gratification wasted little by little her moral strength. The thirst
grew stronger, the will weaker.

The thought of the home she had brightened by her self-denial, the heart she had gladdened,
the little ones who had drawn their life from hers, whose trust in her was growing stronger
day by day, as evening came and showed the valued promise still remembered, and morning dawned
and found her faithful, held her back at first; but gradually this also lost its power. Then
that torturing, burning, maddening thirst swept over the doomed soul like a fierce simoom,
drying up the fountains of maternal tenderness, bearing away all sense of duty, all tenderness
and sympathy, the blessed hope of heaven itself, in its desolating track. One wretched day,
when this thirst was so strong upon her that her priceless soul grew worthless in her eyes,
and she would smilingly have bartered it but for a single draught; one well-remembered, miserable
day, when the little faces were raised to hers, and found upon it no trace of motherly affection,
only that dark foreboding look, and grew pale with fright when desire had reached that relentless
climax which leaves the victim no choice but of madness or gratification, she had fiercely
summoned her usual messenger, sent for her usual drink, and sat grimly waiting for it. In vain
that trusty messenger, to whose care the wretched father had confided that pitiful remnant
of family honor, the shame of public exposure, boldly setting fear of her aside, earnestly
besought her to wrestle with the demon yet a little longer, were it but a single day; and implored
her with tears to remember the little ones on whom this blow would fall so heavily. There was
no tone of motherly affection within that raging breast to respond to that appeal. With parched,
cracked lips, and burning eyes and bloated face fierce with desire, she had driven her from
her presence. Fear lest the lack of this great need would drive her to distraction quite, and
some worse evil yet befall them, she had gone her way, weeping as she went. She came back presently.
There was enough of that terrible poison in the bottle she brought to make her mistress drunk
a score of times. She may get drunk now, dead drunk; in a little while she may lie upon the
floor a senseless, idiotic, disgusting creature. She almost prays it may be so, as she hands
her the glass which she angrily calls for, for there is yet a greater evil to be dreaded. The
liquor so long untasted, acting upon her naturally high temper, may arouse within her a wild
tempest of passion; in her frenzy she may fall upon those little ones, beat, bruise, maim,
murder them perhaps. It is not the first time their lives have been endangered by her violence.
To get them from the room without exciting her opposition, so quietly and naturally that it
shall hardly attract her observation, is her first care; hence, under pretence of arranging
the window curtain, she says to Charley, who is standing near it:

'Charley, say you want some cakes--a drink of water--anything that's down stairs, and follow
me out of this room.'

'I can't go, Maggie,' returned the child, in the same cautious whisper, glancing toward his
mother with his large dark eyes wildly dilated, and his small face bleached with fright. 'Harry
won't go, and I can't leave Harry.'

'Harry shall go,' energetically repeated the resolute Maggie, putting her head out of the window
to say her say. 'He is not going to stay here to be mauled! Harry,' she continued, in the most
insinuating tone imaginable, 'come down stairs with Maggie. There's a darling.'

He was leaning out of the window, apparently looking at something in the street below, and
did not move as she addressed him.

'Harry, Harry,' she called again, in an excited whisper, 'do you hear me? quick, child, quick!'

He turned toward her his face covered with tears.

'Don't cry, for heaven's sake, child; don't cry here,' returned Maggie, with a suppressed groan,
'or that mother of yours will pounce upon you in spite of me.'

At the mention of that word, what little self-possession he retained gave way, and he sobbed
outright. It was a sob so passionate and long suppressed, and it burst forth in spite of him
with such vehemence, that it shook the little form from head to foot, and sounded through the
still room so miserably hopeless, so heart-broken, that it even aroused the stupefied being
nodding in her chair, whom he had the misery to call by the name of mother. It awakened within
her some vague thought of motherly sympathy; and, stupidly striving to comprehend what it meant,
and idly muttering to her miserable self, she poured out a third glass, held it in her hand
as well as she was able, and came tottering forward, swaying to and fro in maudlin efforts
to keep her feet. She took up her position directly behind Harry, and looked vacantly out.
She was trying to ask what was the matter, with a tongue whose palsied utterance made language
incomprehensible, when Harry's friend, whom he had been watching, and whose figure he had,
with love's delicate discrimination, picked out from a score of similar figures, and known
to be hers, when it was but a mere speck in the distance, passed directly under the open window,
and, startled by that sob and by that drunken voice in answer, looked wonderingly up. Oh, heavens!
she read that fearful secret in one blank, horrified glance. She read it in the despairing
hopelessness of the little face turned toward hers--that look so terrible in a face so young.
She read it still more clearly in that fiery, bloated, senseless visage looking down upon her
with a dull stare, in the swaying form feebly holding the tell-tale glass. She knew now why
that delicate child, nursed in the lap of affluence, having all that wealth could purchase,
had come so timidly to her lowly dwelling, and earnestly besought her for a single kiss; what
had made the little face sorrowful and wan, and set that seal of suffering upon it. She saw
it all, and, under the sudden weight of that astounding revelation, she literally staggered
as under the weight of a blow. Looking down through his tear-dimmed eyes at the face he loved
so well, Harry saw upon it no look of sympathy or recognition for him--only that blank, amazed,
horror-stricken look at that something behind him, a look which embraced every item of the
shameful scene, and showed all too clearly how plainly it did so. Then, without a word or glance
of kindness, she gathered her veil closely about her pallid visage, and quickly hurried away.
Alas for Harry! he feels that the truth has turned her heart from his, and she has gone forever.
The anguish of that thought was too great for suppression, and he stretched forth his hands
toward the retreating figure with a forlorn wail of supplication. That look of horror, that
low, plaintive, heart-broken cry, like a child forsaken of its mother, had sobered her a little.
She had been a proud woman once, and a remnant of the nobler pride which had once uplifted
her was still left within her soul. To have eyes from which shone forth the pure, unsullied
spirit of womanhood, discover her secret, and look upon her in her shame; to behold in a rival,
whom unseen she hated, womanhood enthroned in excellence; to see its image in herself fallen
and defaced, sunken in degradation; to know that a few kind and well-bestowed caresses had
won her child's love from her, that on that strange maternal bosom the little head rested more
tranquilly and peacefully than on her own; to owe her a double grudge as discoverer and supplanter--this
aroused the smouldering and now perverted pride yet alive within her bosom, and fanned it to
a flame. She clinched her hands convulsively, her teeth shut together with a dull, grating
sound, the unsteady form swayed to and fro, like a lithe tree shaken in the wind of a coming
tempest, and the bloated face, dark with wrath, was terrible to look upon. It was a fearful
thing to be alone with that half-drunken creature, and see wave after wave of passion rolling
over her tempest-tossed soul, lashing it into fury. Maggie felt it to be so now. As a trusty
confidant and able protector, one who, by some strange means, had gained an ascendency over
her mistress that no other possessed, and wisely exercised this controlling power, she had
been with these poor children through many similar scenes, sheltering them under the broad
wing of her protection, but she had never beheld the gathering of so dark a storm, never felt
the vague, shuddering dread, the chill apprehension which seized on her now. One glance at
that terrible being showed her power lost, her protection insufficient, impotent. To stay with
them and endeavor to breast the coming storm would be madness--to try to get the children from
the room now would be both impolitic and dangerous; at the least demonstration of the kind
that storm would be sure to burst upon them in all its resistless fury, and before its raging
power she felt her strength would be utter weakness. She must fly for aid. Perhaps even now
some invisible being, conscious of their danger, might be impelling their father to the rescue.

'Harry,' said Maggie, turning very pale, as she glanced at the dreadful figure rocking to and
fro in fearful communing with itself, and bending down to whisper a parting injunction as she
tied on her bonnet, 'don't speak to her, don't look toward her. Don't cross her in any way.
She's the devil's own, now.'

A word, a look, a gesture of entreaty to Charley, placing in dumb show his brother in his charge,
and she passed from the room hastily and noiselessly, but not unperceived. As she vanished,
an evil smile of triumph at thus being so easily rid of an able antagonist, flashed across
the terrible face, giving it almost the look of a demon. In passing out, Maggie has left the
door ajar, which perceiving, the wretched woman totters across the room, shuts the door, locks
it, throws the key upon the floor, and, tottering back to her seat, again takes a long, deep
draught from the glass upon the table. Fixing her fiery eyes full on Harry, she calls out imperiously:

'Come here, sir!'

The tone in which the command is given is cruel, stern, and cold, unsoftened by maternal tenderness,
untouched by womanly gentleness, and the bloated face has the same evil look upon it. Harry
shrinks back affrighted.

'Are you deaf, you adder? Come here, I say, come here.'

There is a fierceness in the tone now which shows a longer delay will be dangerous; and so
Charley, pale and trembling, comes forth from the corner in which he has been crouching, and,
taking his smaller brother by the hand, they come forward together.

'What made you bawl after that woman--that woman in the street?' she says, viciously grasping
the little shoulder, and giving it a shake. 'Answer me this minute. Speak, sir, speak!'

'I--I can't help loving her, ma,' falters the poor child deprecatingly, while the blue eyes
fill, and the tears fall slowly down his face.

'There, none of your snivelling,' she cries fiercely, giving him another shake. 'Come up here;
come closer. Here! Stand back, you,' pushing Charley from her with a force that makes him stagger.
'Now then,' she furiously demands, 'did you ever cry after me when I went away and left you?'

He is so faint with fright that he can hardly find his voice to answer, and the words are almost
inarticulate as he falters forth:

'Sometimes, ma; sometimes, when you are kind to me.'

'You never did; you know you never did, you little liar,' shrieks the crazed creature, savagely
dealing him a heavy blow which sends him reeling from her.

'Oh, ma! Oh, ma!' gasps the poor child, crouching down in the extremity of terror as the terrible
figure comes flying toward him. 'Don't kill me, oh, don't kill me; I'm such a little boy!'

She pounces upon him like a tigress, lifting the fragile form high in the air, and dashing
it down to the floor again with all her cruel force. She shakes, she bites him, she rains blows
upon the poor, defenceless child, leaving prints of her vicious fingers all over the poor little
body wherever she touches the tender skin, marks of her cruel nails on the delicate arms and
hands, long, deep scratches from which the blood exudes slowly. One last cruel blow hushes
the suppressed cries of pain and terror, the low moans for mercy, and lays the bruised and
quivering form senseless at her feet. Then the mad creature, crazed with drink and passion,
goes careering up and down the room, snatching from table and bureau the costly trinkets with
which they are adorned, and wildly trampling them beneath her feet as she hurries to and fro.
She is so terrible to look upon, with that scarlet, bloated face, distorted by passion, and
the long, thick hair unbound hanging wildly about it, and that baleful light in her bloodshot
eyes, so terrible in the frenzied excitement of look and motion, that Charley, who has crept
to the side of his prostrate brother, and is tenderly holding the unconscious head, has no
power to cry or move, but sits half frozen with horror, with his great brown eyes wildly dilated,
fixed in a species of fascination upon the strange motions of that dreadful figure, and merely
in obedience to the instinct of self-preservation endeavors to shield himself and his insensible
charge from the heavy blows aimed at them as she comes flying past. A few brief moments pass
in this way, moments which to that poor child, alone with that wild being, seem dreadful hours
of torturing length. Then the blessed sounds of coming relief fall on his ear, footsteps are
approaching, a man's firm, hurried tread and woman's lighter but no less rapid step are heard
through the hall below, up the staircase--on, on they come, crossing the long upper hall, pausing
at the threshold. Then they try the door; swift, crushing blows are rained upon it, the door
is burst open, and they come rushing distractedly in.

'Oh, pa! pa!' The tongue is loosed whose utterance fear has palsied, and Charley stretches
forth his hands to the strong arm of his earthly saviour. One hasty glance around the room
strewn with fragments of costly toys, one look at the maniacal form in the centre with wildly
dishevelled hair, and leering, vacant face, then the anguished eyes fall on that for which
they are searching, see the outstretched arms of the little figure cowering in a corner half
hid by the window curtain, see that other figure lying at its feet, so livid and motionless,
so breathless, with the deathly face upturned, and the long brown lashes, still wet with tears,
resting on the marble cheeks.

'O God! too late! too late!' The strong agony of that father's heart bursts forth from his
bleached lips in that wild, irrepressible cry. He seizes the tottering form. He shakes it fiercely:
'Woman! fiend! blot on the name of mother! you have killed my boy!'

That momentary burst of passion past, he leaves the hapless creature to her witless mumbling,
and, with great waves of anguish rolling over his soul, the broken-hearted father kneels beside
his boy.

'Not dead! oh, thank God! not dead.'

There is a slight throbbing motion of the heart, a faint, scarcely perceptible pulsation at
the wrist. They raise the senseless form from off the floor. Up to his room they bear him;
softly on his little bed they lay him--that little bed from which he is never more to rise.
Gentle footsteps glide noiselessly about the room, loving eyes are bent above him, and tears
fall upon the upturned face. Long days go and come, fragrant sunny days, bright with the bloom
of summer, each day one less of earth, one nearer heaven. The loving watchers know it, and
ever and anon there are sounds of smothered weeping there. But there are no answering tears
from eyes soon to look on immortal things, for on the passing soul dawns a vision of a home
beyond the shadow and the blight, where, in meadows fragrant with immortal flowers, the Great
Shepherd feedeth His sheep, and, as He tenderly leads them beside the still waters, gathers
the lambs to His bosom. In that clime glows the glory of unfading light, the bloom of undying
beauty. Henceforth the beauty and the light of this transitory sphere seem wan and cold, and
the fading things of earth grow worthless in the dying eyes, and the tranced soul longs to
be gone, yet bides its time with patient sweetness. Patient amid all his pain, no groan escapes
the parched lips, no complaining murmur. Bearing all his sufferings with meek endurance, quiet
and very thoughtful he lies upon his little bed, smiling placidly upon those about him--grateful,
very grateful for their love and care; watching with musing eyes the long hours through the
changes of the day on the sky as seen from his window--gray dawn melting into morning, morning
into mellow day, day, with its varied changes, sinking into night. The heaven beyond on which
he muses as he gazes, the home for which he longs, baptizes him with its light beforetime.
On the sinless brow the seal of a perfect peace is set, and the air about the child grows holy.
A hush falls on the room mysterious and solemn, and they know that white-robed immortals are
treading earthly courts, mingling in earthly company; for he murmurs in his dreams of radiant
faces that bend above him; and the wan face, as they watch it in its slumbers, grows bright
with the look of heaven. A few more hours of earth, a little longer tarrying of the immortal
with the mortal part where it has lived and loved, suffered and rejoiced; a few more moans
of pain, and the blue eyes open and look upon the day whose silent light will dawn upon us
all. They had not thought the end so near at hand; and, worn out with grief and watching, the
father and his faithful nurses had one by one retired to rest, leaving Charley, at his earnest
solicitation, to sit beside the bed and watch his brother's fitful slumbers. Since that fatal
day, a dread and horror of his mother had seized upon the child. Though surrounded by those
he loved, her near approach would cause strong nervous chills, and her kiss or touch would
throw him into frightful spasms, from which they could with difficulty recover him; hence,
by the doctor's orders, she was forbidden the room, and it was only when utter exhaustion had
steeped his refined spiritual sense into perfect oblivion of surrounding objects, that she
was permitted to enter there and gaze for a little on the wan features of her sleeping child.
That day, knowing his time on earth was short, and possessed by a restless and uncontrollable
desire to be near him, even though she could not look upon his face, into the room of her dying
boy she had stolen like a culprit, and noiselessly shrank into the farthest corner of the room,
screened from his observation by the heavy window-curtain and the high head-board of the bed.
They had discovered her there after a time, but she, in terms which would have moved the coldest
heart to pity, implored them with tears to allow her to remain; and they, seeing that the demon
had departed from her for a season, and compassionating the forlorn being, had gone away and
left her there. She sits motionless in the silent room, her despairing eyes fixed on the serene
heaven to which her darling will soon be gone, and from which the stern justice of an accusing
conscience tells her she may be forever excluded.

And oh! if this be truth, if in the world beyond there is no hope for sinful souls that have
gone astray in this, and this parting is eternal, then, oh then, through the long, dark ages
of suffering which may be her future portion, never to look upon her darling more, never more
to kiss the sweet lips that have called her mother, never more to look upon him here till the
silken lashes droop toward the marble cheek and the half-veiled eyes have lost their lustre,
and they lead her in for a last look ere the little face is shut out from mortal gaze forever!--oh!
the unutterable anguish of that thought, and the remorse which mingles with it! Not for that
last dreadful act, for she never knew that she had killed him. No clear remembrance of that
day lives within to curse her memory, but she knows that a strange and unaccountable dread
of her has seized upon the child, that she is banished from his dying presence; and an undefined
and vague remembrance, a misty horror, has fallen on her life, rests on her like an incubus,
pursues her in a thousand phantom shapes through the long, dark watches of the terror-laden
night, and through burdened days of ceaseless suffering. She knows, for they have told her,
that when his consciousness returned, his first cry had been for the mother of his heart; that
she had left everything and come to him; that she had taken her place beside his bed, a dearer
place than she had ever occupied in his heart; that no hands like those chill, magnetic ones
could soothe him in his pain, or charm him to his fitful slumbers; that on no bosom could the
throbbing head rest so tranquilly as on her own. What the mother's heart suffered in that knowledge
when her better nature prevailed, only the Being knows Who framed it. The hours of the long
day wore heavily on. The sun, that had paused awhile in mid-heaven, was now sinking slowly
toward the west. Yet, unmindful of food or rest, seated in the same corner into which she had
shrunk on entering the room, ever and anon rocking herself to and fro, or wringing her hands
in silent agony, there sits the wretched mother, hidden watcher by the bedside of her dying
boy. The room has been chosen for its retired situation, and is removed from the noise of household
occupations; and the bustle of the crowded street, even in its busiest hours, falls on the
ear in a distant hum. It is quiet now, very quiet. Harry has awakened once from his slumbers,
asked to be moved nearer the front of the bed, that they may be very near each other while
he sleeps again, and, when that was done, has smiled lovingly upon the little, sorrowful watcher,
and, with his wasted hand tightly clasped in his, has fallen into sounder slumbers. In the
deathlike stillness which has fallen on the room, she can hear his breathing, and has ventured
twice or thrice, while he slept thus, to steal softly to the bedside and look upon his face;
but as at each successive attempt he has seemed almost immediately to feel the dreaded atmosphere,
and his slumbers have become broken and uneasy, with a heavy heart she has crept silently back
again. Charley has waited until the thin hand of the sick child has relaxed its clasp on his
own, then, moved by a loving impulse, noiselessly busies himself in removing a littered mass
of vials, cups, and glasses, which have accumulated on the stand near the bed, to a table just
at hand, and taxes his childish ingenuity in arranging thereon, in the prettiest possible form,
a multitude of toys and trinkets, gifts sent by the servants of the house to his brother, putting
the new ones in front, so that his eye may fall on them first when he wakes again. This done,
he creeps back to his seat by the bedside, and silently watches his slumbers as before.

A ray of sunlight, bright and warm, creeps through the lattice and falls on the veined lids;
the eyes open, and instinctively moving from the too dazzling light, rest placidly on a fragment
of blue sky just visible through the half-closed window. With eyes fixed intently on that hazy
distance, moment after moment, silent and motionless he lies, and the blue orbs grow lustrous
as he gazes with the mystic beauty of eyes whose inner vision rests on unutterable things,
and gradually there comes upon the little face the look that never comes on any face but once.
Oh, mystic change! Oh, strange solemnity of death! The little watcher by the bedside, face
to face with its mysterious presence for the first time, ignorant of its processes, feels a
dread, half-defined idea of what it may be, and, with a piteous effort to recall his dying
brother back to his old look and seeming, tremulously falters:

'See all the nice things they've sent you, Harry, all the pretty toys you've got! Here they
are, spread out upon the table. Look, brother, look!'

The eyes are bright and clear, the shadow of death has not yet dimmed their light. They turn
slowly, very slowly, and, just glancing at the toy-strewn table, rest upon his brother's face.
Oh! what is that look within them that chills the warm life-current, and makes him cold and
shivering in the heat of that summer day, as the sick child feebly says:

'You may have them all, all, Charley; I sha'n't never want them any more.'

'You've hardly looked at them at all, Harry,' quavers the young voice in reply, bravely trying
to continue the subject. 'You don't know how handsome they are. The nicest ones, the very nicest
ones Betty bought you! Poor Betty! she has done nothing but cry since you've been sick--cry,
and buy you presents. She says when you get well, Harry--' and here the brave little voice,
that has been tremulous and tear-laden all along, breaks down entirely, and he puts up his
hand to check the tears that are running down his face. There are no tears in those other eyes
looking into his; the mists of death are gathering within them. He cannot see the tear-wet
face so plainly now, but he feebly strokes the hand that lies against his own, and says, in
a weaker voice, pausing now and then for breath:

'Poor brother, dear brother! Don't cry, Charley, don't cry! You must tell Betty not to cry.
Poor Betty! I haven't seen her once since I've been sick. And poor mamma'--the faint voice,
forgetful of its weakness, grows stronger for a moment, and dwells on that name with measureless
compassion--'poor, poor, poor mamma! I don't feel afraid of ma any more, and I want to see
her. I DO so much want to see her! Where is ma, Charley?'

There is a movement in the lower part of the room, and a bent form comes tottering forward,
with hair hanging wildly about a haggard, despairing, woeworn face. Her hands are outstretched
in piteous supplication.

'Here I am,' a voice choked with sobs makes answer, 'Here's your poor, miserable, guilty mother,
Harry. O Harry! my sins have barred me out from the heaven you are entering; say you forgive
me before we part forever. Oh! my darling, it is the last time I shall ever ask it; give me
one kiss before you go!' He smiled as only the dying can smile, and stretched out his feeble
arms. 'He smiles upon me, he forgives!' shrieked the half-demented creature. 'O God! most merciful!
Thou hast not quite forsaken me!' and with a step forward, and a gesture of embrace, the hapless
being falls heavily upon the floor.

'Raise me up, raise me up,' pleads the sick child, after partially recovering from the shock
the fall had given him; and, as he gazes upon the prostrate form, the white, haggard, insensible
features, an angel's pity and compassion shine in the dying face. 'Oh, I can't kiss her, Charley.
Tell poor mamma I couldn't kiss her,' he faintly moans. Then the fitful strength gives way
again, and the tired head droops wearily on his brother's shoulder. The chilled form creeps
closer to a warm embrace. A little while they hold each other thus--these little ones, brothers
by the ties of blood, bound nearer to each other than any tie of blood can bind, by the sacred
bond of suffering! Then the arm around poor Charley's neck relaxes its hold, and falls with
a dull, lifeless sound back upon the pillow. The little form grows colder, colder yet. He has
no power to lay it down, no power to cry for help, but sits holding it, half paralyzed, as
he hears them rushing up the stairs, urged wildly on by the dreadful fear that they have come
too late.

There is a piteous supplication in the large, dilated eyes, a mute prayer for help in the white
face he turns upon them as they enter. To the hurried questions which come pouring forth, the
bleached, white lips make answer:

'He got cold, and went to sleep again; and he has been getting colder ever since.'

Then the father, stooping, looks into the little face lying on Charley's shoulder, and, staggering
back as if a blow had struck him, cries out: 'Dead!' and the friend that Harry had loved so
well raises the curly head and lays it back upon the pillow.

Great is the variety in the different classes of men to be found in picture galleries. First
in importance stand the artists, oftentimes oracular personages, dangerous of approach by outsiders
having opinions (such must generally expect a direct snubbing, polite indifference, or silent
scorn), knowing much but not everything, no single one infallible, highly honorable as members
of a guild, secretive as doctors or lawyers, chary of talking shop to the uninitiated, hardworking,
conscientious, half luring, half scoffing at the glorious visions of the creative imagination
granted them chiefly of all men, wonder workers, world reformers, recorders of the past and
prophets of the future, comforters of prose-ridden humanity, stewards of some of God's best
gifts, openers of the gates of the beautiful, and hence ushers into the vestibule of the glorious
'Land of the Hereafter.' May they all remember their lofty calling, and never diminish their
usefulness by unworthy contests among themselves, or by sacrificing their own better judgment
to the exigencies of popular requirement!

Next in order come the connoisseurs. Unmistakably one is that young man with near-sighted eyeglass,
with Dundreary whiskers and jaunty air, who talks of breadth, handling, foreshortening, perspective,
etc.; who perhaps quotes Ruskin, has seen galleries abroad, is devoted to genre pictures, and,
after rattling through an exhibition for a half hour, pronounces definitely upon the merits
of the entire collection, singly and en masse.

Equally recognizable is the older picture-fancier. He talks, if possible, even more learnedly,
discoursing of balance, tone, chiaroscuro; he despises innovations, judges in accordance with
names; is of course convinced the present can bear no comparison with the past; will look through
a whole gallery, and finally be captivated by some well-executed conceit--a sun shining through
a hole--three different sorts of light, of fire, candle, and moon, mixed in with monstrous
shadows and commonplace figures--some meaningless countenance surmounting a satin whose every
shining thread is distinguishable, and the pattern of whose lace trimming could be copied for
a fashion plate; he is, in short, a fussy, loud individual, with money to buy and some out-of-the-way
place to hang pictures.

Then there is the man who knows but one, or at most two or three artists, and will look at
the works of none other; who sees, as travellers generally do, not that which is, but that
which he had made up his mind to see before he left his own threshold. There are those attracted
by nothing except brilliant color, and others who have heard so much of the vulgarity of 'high
lights' and gaudy hues, that they will tolerate nothing but brown trees, russet grass, gray
skies, slate rocks, drab gowns, copper skins, and shadows so deep that the discovery of the
objects represented becomes a real game of 'hide and go seek.' There are also the timidly modest,
who, although aware of their own preferences, are yet afraid to admire any new name until some
recognized authority has given permission. Another division of this class consists of those
who, knowing their own inability to draw or to color the simplest object, hesitate to refuse
admiration to any art production that is even barely tolerable. Let us concede to this class
our respect, as humility is the only solid basis for any human acquirement.

We also find the pretty young lady, who says 'lovely,' 'charming,' or 'horrid,' 'abominable,'
in a very attractive, but most indiscriminating manner;--the individual who cares only for
the design (to whom real depth or pathos and affected prettiness are too often one and the
same), and the other, who looks only at the technical execution. Rare, indeed, are the imaginative
analysts who, while considering the design, can comprehend its philosophy, tell why it pleases
or displeases, why they like or dislike; and still rarer are they who add to impartiality,
observation, common sense, imaginative perception, and analytic power, a sufficiency of technical
knowledge to render their criticism useful, not only to outsiders, but even to artists themselves.
Such a guide would indeed be an invaluable companion in any gallery of art. In default of him,
let us do the best we can, and come to a consideration of some of the works offered us in this,
the thirty-ninth annual exhibition of the National Academy of Design.

Before we begin, however, let us make a passing remark upon a custom that seems lately to have
come in vogue, namely, to publish in the daily papers damaging criticisms upon pictures offered
for sale at auction, such criticisms generally appearing one, or at most two days before the
sale. The want of good taste, or even of abstract justice, in such a proceeding, must be apparent
to every one who will pause a moment to consider. To compare small things with great, for the
sake of illustration, if our neighbor has made his purchase of spring drygoods, and spreads
them upon the counter of his store, we may or may not admire his taste in the selection of
patterns, but we surely should not think ourselves called upon to rush to the newspapers and
blazon forth an opinion to his detriment, especially if our assertions were mere guesses, perhaps
even untrue, or if we were ourselves concerned in the selling of similar wares. Among the public
are many tastes to be gratified, and each man can judge for himself of that which pleases him.
A case of impudent pretension or actual imposition will of course require honest people to
give in their testimony, but the facts adduced in such a case must be susceptible of proof,
and not mere matters of individual taste or opinion; neither must they be advanced at so late
an hour as to render their refutation difficult, or indeed impossible. A regular exhibition,
such as that of the Academy, offers fair ground for discussion, as all sides have a chance
of obtaining a hearing; but even there, the scales of justice should be nicely poised, and
great care taken that neither rashness, flippancy, nor prejudice be permitted any share in
their adjustment, and 'good will toward men' be the only extra weight ever added to either side.

To begin with the landscapes, one of the most remarkable, and, to our individual taste, the
most attractive in the whole collection, is No. 147, 'The Woods and Fields in Autumn,' by Jervis
McEntee, N. A. The fine tree-drawing and the exquisite harmony of color in this poetic representation
of autumn scenery are worthy of all praise. The clouds are gathering for dark winter days,
a few pleasant hours are yet left to the dying year, the atmosphere is saturated with moist
exhalations, with tender mists softening but not obscuring the beautiful forms of the leafless
trees and shrubs. The springs are filling, the low grounds marshy, the leaves on the woodpaths
crisp and of a golden brown. Far away in the west is a band of gray light, that tells of clearer
skies and brighter seasons one day to come, of new hopes to dawn, when the earth, and the soul,
shall have been purified by adverse blasts, by the baring of their nakedness to the unimpeded,
searching light of heaven. No. 124, 'The Wanderer,' is a picture of similar character by the
same skilful hand. Thoughtful, refined, and discriminating lovers of art cannot fail to find
instruction and delight in these noble conceptions, and indeed it is chiefly in the possession
of such persons that we find the truthful, conscientious, tenderly conceived, and poetical
pictures of Jervis McEntee.

S. R. Gifford, N. A., exhibits two works, differing widely from each other, but both worthy
of his reputation. Let the names now longer and more widely established in the estimation of
the general public look to their laurels, for here is one who is destined successfully to enter
an honorable contest for the possession of the very highest honors. Unity of design, and warmth
as well as vividness of light, positive atmosphere, characterize the works of this artist,
and render each one a satisfactorily completed poem. No. 226, 'South Mountain, Catskills,'
presents a view doubtless well known to many of our readers. The far-away horizon, the winding
Hudson with its tiny sails, the square dent where lies the lake in the Shawangunk range, the
serrated ridges of the lower hills, the smoke from the lowlands outside the Clove, the shadowed,
ridgy sides of the Round Top Mountain, the stunted pines of the South Mountain, so characteristically
represented, the great rock overhanging the cliffs, and the whortleberry bushes and other low
growth clustering about its base--all speak to us unmistakably of that very spot, and tell
the story of the place as we scarcely thought it could have been told, yet so simply, so naturally,
that the art of the artist is almost forgotten in actual enjoyment of the scene portrayed.
No. 250, 'A Twilight in the Adirondacs,' glows with an intensity of light suggestive of some
secret art, and not of ordinary paint and canvas. A few brilliant cloud-specks float in a golden
sky, which is reflected from the surface of a placid lake, high up among the hills, whose haze-flooded
and light-crowned tops fade away into the far distance. To many this picture will prove more
attractive than the view from the South Mountain: perhaps it is our familiarity with and love
for the original of the last-mentioned view, which induce us to give to it our personal preference.

No. 158, 'The Old Hunting Grounds,' is by W. Whittredge, N. A. It gives a charming insight
into the mysteries of the woods. The characteristic white birches, with their reflection in
the quiet pool, the dark trunk and spreading branches of the great tree in the foreground,
the tender foliage, and soft, hazy gleams into the depths of the forest, afford the materials
for a delightful picture, the more precious in our sight that it is so truly a representation
of our native land, so thoroughly American. The broken birch canoe adds to the beauty of nature
a most effective and pathetic touch, by briefly figuring the melancholy history of a fast-departing
race. Gone forever are the moccasoned feet that pressed that mossy soil, and the dusky forms
that flitted to and fro among the white trunks that catch and hold the light so lovingly. That
broken canoe has a stranger tale to tell than any ruined arch or fallen column of the Old World:
the one speaks of some empire passed away, the other of the gradual extinction of an entire
type of human beings, a race of men who seem to have accomplished the work assigned them, and
who die rather than abandon their native instincts and habits of thought and life. The fortunate
possessor of the 'Old Hunting Grounds,' when shut up within the confined streets and dreary
walls of a city, need only lift his eyes to the picture to dream dreams of the freshness and
freedom of the wild woods, of the scented breeze snuffed by the browsing deer, of the rocking
branches glimmering gold and green against the clear summer sky. Mr. Whittredge's picture is
suggestive and harmonious as nature itself, and one could never weary of it, as one infallibly
must of weaker and more conventional productions, often highly prized by frequenters of galleries.

No. 153, 'The Iron-Bound Coast of Maine,' by W. S. Haseltine, N. A., has the freshness, brightness,
and mistiness of such a shore. We have heard Mr. Haseltine's rocks complained of as too yellow;
but, in the absence of knowledge, are content to presume he painted them as he saw them. The
action of the dashing surf in washing away the lower strata, and strewing the beach with fragments,
is one token, among many, of an actual observation of facts.

No. 236, 'An Artist's Studio,' and No. 131, 'Christmas Eve,' are by J. F. Weir. Both are well
conceived and executed, the latter being especially interesting. The old wall, the great bell,
the moonlight, and the elves set the fancy musing over many things in heaven and earth rarely
dreamed of in our philosophy.

No. 12, 'The Argument,' is one of W. H. Beard's excellent fables. The attitudes of the two
bears in discussion, of the sober-minded listener leaning with crossed paws upon the tree,
and of the self-sufficient old fellow with his paw upon his breast, may read to many a good
lesson, especially during the coming Presidential struggle, when the charities and bienséances
of life will doubtless be but too often outraged. We have been surprised and pained to see
attacks upon the works of this gentleman, coming from opposite quarters, said strictures being,
in our opinion, unjust and uncalled for. If behind the animal form we see proof of more than
animal intellect, let us not quarrel with the addition. It is an evil mind that will go out
of its way to fasten evil intentions upon the work of a man of genius. If human faults and
follies so ill beseem the brute creation, should not such representation render us heartily
ashamed of their existence among ourselves. Love and pity for the animal world, and a proper
holding up to ridicule and scorn of the brutish propensities, too prominent, alas! in the composition
of the human race, have been the lessons taught us by all the works of this artist we have
thus far seen.

No. 204, 'Out All Night,' by J. H. Beard, is an excellent warning to naughty puppies to keep
good hours and shun bad company.

No. 114, 'A Buckwheat Field on Thomas Cole's Farm,' and No. 143, 'The Catskills from the Village,'
are by Thomas C. Farrer, a representative of a school which professes to paint precisely what
it sees. To represent nature is the aim of all our best modern landscapists. Of course, no
painting can give all that is in any scene, but every painter must select the means best adapted
to convey the idea he has himself received. Now, in the ultra ideal school (to use a slang
word which we detest) we recognize but little known to us in nature; and in the ultra matter-of-fact
(pre-Raphaelite) school of this country, we find the same absence of abstract truth, together
with a painful stiffness, and the want of a sense for beauty. We are not sufficiently practical
artists to fathom the difficulty, but it seems to us to arise from the absence of one of the
most prominent elements of beauty and interest to be found in the universe, namely, mystery.
If, in the metaphysical world, with our limited means, we attempt an exhaustive explanation
of any of the attributes of the Infinite Being, the result must be unsatisfactory; we will
always feel that there is something beyond, which we have failed to grasp, a something which
makes our best effort appear shallow and crude. Now, the material mystery of actual landscape
arises from the presence of an appreciable atmosphere, softening forms, etherealizing distances,
modifying color, and lending the glow of variously refracted light to every object falling
under its influence. In these pictures of Mr. Farrer we fail to find any trace of atmosphere,
and hence they strike us as bald, hard, cold, and unnatural.

No. 213, 'The Awe and Mystery of Death,' by Eugene Benson, is an able treatment of a repulsive
subject. As we gaze, we cannot but admire the genius that has so far overcome the intrinsic
difficulties of the situation; and, while congratulating the artist upon his success, must
add that the Victor Hugo style of morbid horrors, however popular in some species of literature,
can never, we hope, become so in the purer domain of visible fine art.

No. 246, 'Portrait,' William O. Stone, N. A., is a charming portrayal of a charming subject.

No. 283, 'A Child,' by George A. Baker, N. A., has lovely brown eyes, and a beautiful, thoughtful
expression.

No. 253, 'A Portrait,' by W. H. Furness, jr., strikes us as a picture carefully disfigured.
The part in the hair is singularly continued in the part between the wings of the golden butterfly
ornamenting the head, the eyes are just sufficiently turned aside to give them the appearance
of avoiding a direct gaze, and the tight-fitting gown is of white moiré, a material of stiff
texture and chaotic pattern. The shimmer of waves in sun or moonlight is beautiful because
restless, but the watering of a silk is a rude attempt to fix the ever variable in form, light,
and color, and hence is always unsatisfactory.

We are glad to see that the women in our community are beginning to make some serious efforts
in the way of good painting. They are by nature subtile colorists, and there is surely no reason
why they should not conquer form, attain to technical excellence, and be inspired by noble
ideas. They must remember that excellence is attainable solely through hard study and patient
assiduity, and small things must be well accomplished before great ones can be expected to
succeed. With the general development of what we may call 'out-door' faculties, a taste for
mere sentimental prettiness will vanish, and a healthy vigor, united to refined and acute perception,
will, we hope, characterize the labors of the rising aspirants to artistic honors.

No. 91, 'The Sword and the Wreath,' by Miss A. E. Rose, is a poetical conception, beautifully
elaborated. The flowers have no appearance of having been copied from wax or colored stucco,
but are faithful representations of the actual, fragile, delicate texture of the lovely children
of the garden. The method of presentation suggests a memory of La Farge, but Miss Rose is too
talented and original ever to fall into servile imitation.

No. 132, 'On the Kaaterskill Creek,' and No. 64, 'Head of the Catskill Clove from the South
Mountain,' are by Miss Edith W. Cook. The first offers some fine delineations of foliage, intermingled
hemlock, and deciduous trees, and the latter is a spirited and truthful representation of a
beautiful bit of Catskill scenery. The Hunter and Plattekill Mountains, Haines's Fall, the
Clove Road and intervening ravines, the winding woodpath, and burnt trees, are close records
of fact, set in a far-away sky and a real atmosphere.

Miss Virginia Granbery's 'Basket of Cherries' (No. 81) and 'Strawberries' (No. 73) are tempting
specimens of fruit.

No. 202, 'The Seamstress,' by Miss C. W. Conant, gives proof of future excellence in the truthful
pathos of its conception and the energetic rendering of the idea.

But our hour has come to an end, and we have only space left to mention the names of Bierstadt,
Constant Mayer, Hennessy, May, Durand, Griswold, Suydam, Bradford, Brevoort, Cropsey, Colman,
Cranch, De Haas, Hart, Homer, Hubbard, Huntington, Vedder, and White, who are all characteristically
represented, and to counsel such of our readers as are fortunate enough to have the opportunity,
to go and see for themselves. Americans are beginning to comprehend the full value of the arts,
and to appreciate their own artists accordingly.

APHORISMS.

NO. V.

With us it may not be the actual suffering of death, as it was with our Lord; but that we may
truly follow Him, and do what we can for the good of others, we must hold life, with all its
endearments, subject to any call for sacrifice that may be made on us; and actually give up,
from day to day, just as much of the present life, its pleasures or interests, as may be necessary,
that we may render the best possible service in the kingdom of Christ. We have the privilege
of daily martyrdom, to be followed by its honors and blessedness, in whatsoever circumstances
we may be placed: how much of the sufferings that sometimes accompany the spirit and the act,
we need not concern ourselves to inquire.

THE UNKIND WORD.

    Ay--far in the feeling heart
      Cast the unkind word till it smiteth,
    Till deep in the flesh like a poisoned dart
      It stingeth--and ruthlessly biteth!
          What need that the blood
          In a crimson flood
    Flow fast from the throbbing veins--
          What need--if a sob
          Or the heart's wild throb
    Betoken the horrible pains?

    The tears are forced from the mournful eyes
      As the angry word proceedeth;
    Little it cares for the stifled sighs,
      Little recks if the sad heart bleedeth;--
          But onward it goes
          While the life-blood flows
        Fast--fast on its terrible path;
          It laughs at the moan,
          And the low subdued groan,
        As it cuts so deep in its wrath.

        *       *       *       *       *

            But soft on its track,
            And calling it back,
        Soothing the wound it has made,
            A Spirit of Love
            Comes down from above,
        In heavenly beauty arrayed--

            An angel of peace
            Who bids the tears cease,
        And stops the red life-blood's flow,
            And the poisoned dart
            Draws out of the heart,
        That dart that had torn it so,
            And heals o'er the skin--
            But look then within,
        There still is a scar below!

LANGUAGE A TYPE OF THE UNIVERSE.

In a preceding paper, published in the May number of THE CONTINENTAL, the possibility, the
necessity, and the characteristics of a Scientific Universal Language were considered. In the
present paper it is proposed to examine more at large the relations of Language to the total
Universe; not merely in respect to Elements or the Alphabetic Domain of Language, and that
which corresponds with it in the Universe; but in respect equally to all that rises above these
foundations of the two edifices in question which are to be compared.

The term Edifice or Structure will be found to be alike applicable to each. It will be found,
likewise, that both arise in parallel development through a succession of stages or stories
(French, étages, ESTAGES, STAGES), and that this and other similar repetitions, in the development
of the one, of all the facts and features of the development of THE OTHER, is what is meant
by the Analogy of one with the other, and by the affirmation implied in the title of this article,
that Language is a Type of the Universe.

We shall begin, therefore, by a general distribution of these two Domains or Spheres or Structures--for
the facts of the analogy will justify the occasional use and interchange of all these terms--and
shall pursue the relationship between them into so much of detail as space will allow.

What the Universe is in itself we have no other means of knowing than as it impresses itself
upon our minds, modified as it may be by the reactive or reflectional element supplied by the
mind itself. In preponderance, then, or primarily, the Universe is for each of us, what the
totality of Impression made by the Universe is within each of us; and the Universe in that
larger and generalized sense in which we speak of it as one, and not as many individual conceptions,
is the mean aggregate or general average of the Impression made upon all minds, in so far as
it has a general or common character.

The whole of what man individually or collectively puts forth, as the product of his mind or
of all minds, is the totality of Expression, in a sense which exactly counterparts the totality
of Impression. Impression is related to Nature, external to man, and acting on him. Expression
has relation to Art, externalized from within man, and taken in that large sense which means
all human performance whatsoever. Science is systematized knowing, and is a middle term, or
stands and functionates mediatorially between Impression or Nature and Expression or Art.

Nature or the external world impresses itself upon mind, primarily, through the Senses, and
predominantly stands related with the sense of Feeling, of which all the other special senses
are merely modified forms or differentiations. Feeling as a sense (the sense of Touch), is
allied again with Affection, the internal counterpart of the mere external sensation, as testified
to etymologically by the use of the same word to express both; namely, Feeling as the synonyme
of Touch, and Feeling as the synonyme of Affection. Conation, from the Latin conari, TO EXERT
ONESELF, TO PUT FORTH EFFORT, is the term employed by metaphysicians to signify both Desire
and Will, the last being the determination of the mind which results in action. Conation is
therefore related to action, which is again Expression, and is also Art, in the large definition
of the term above given.

The grand primary distribution of the Mind made by Kant, followed by Sir William Hamilton,
and now concurred in by the students of the mind generally, is into: 1. FEELING; 2. KNOWING;
and 3. CONATION (or Will and Desire). In accordance with this is Comte's famous epitome of
the business of life: AGIR PAR AFFECTION, ET PENSER POUR AGIR; the three terms here being again,
1. Affection (or Feeling); 2. Knowledge (or Reflection); and 3. Action (or Performance).

If now, instead of distributing the Mind, we enlarge the sphere of our thinking, and distribute
upon the same principle the total Universe (as if it were a mind or a mirror of the mind),
for Feeling or Affection we shall put Impression or Nature; for Knowing or Reflection we shall
put Science or Systematized Knowledge; and for Conation or Action we shall put Art.

The following table will exhibit the two series of distribution, that of the Universe at large,
and that of the Human Mind, in their parallelism, reading the two columns from below upward:

  I. Universe.                                 II. Mind.

  3. ART (or Expression).          3. CONATION (or Will and Desire).
  2. SCIENCE.                             2. KNOWING.
  1. NATURE (or Impression).       1. FEELING (or Affection).

The point of present importance in the use of these discriminations is to make clear to the
mind of the reader what perhaps is sufficiently implied in the very terms themselves, namely:
that Impression and Expression are correlative to, and, in a sense, exactly reflect each other;
that the totality of Impression, or the Universe which enters the mind through the senses,
is repeated--with a modification, it is true, but still with traceable identity, or with a
definite and unbroken relationship--in the totality of Expression, or in the Universe of Art,
taken as the entirety of what man does or creates. It is by the mediation of Science or Knowledge,
that one of these worlds is converted into the other. Nature or Impression is the aggregate
of the Rays of Incidence falling upon a mirror; Science is the Reflecting Mirror; and Art or
Human Performance is the aggregate of the Reflected Rays, whose angles can be exactly calculated
by the knowledge of the angle of incidence. Science or Knowledge is not only the mirror which
makes the Reflection, but it is the plane or level which is to furnish us the means of adjusting
the angles; of knowing their correspondence or relation to each other; and of translating the
one into the other. Science must, therefore, as it develops, be the instrument of informing
us of the exact analogy between Nature and Art; and must enable us so to apply the Laws of
Nature, or the Laws of God as exhibited in Nature, that they shall become a perfect canon of
life and action, in all our attempted performances and constructions, whatsoever they may be;
or, vice versa, it must enable us from the knowledge of the laws of our own actions to reveal
the secrets of Nature, and to know, by the analogy, in what manner she acts. It will then perhaps
be found that the Moral Code, as dictated by inspiration, is only the forecast, through that
method, of what is destined to be more perfectly revealed to the intellect, when the veil is
rent by the millennial perfection of man.

It will be perceived by the reader that the term Art is here employed in a larger than its
usual sense, although the analogy in question has a special intensification when we confine
the term to mean, as it ordinarily does, the choicest performances of man. The term Science
has also a larger and a smaller extension. In the larger sense it means the totality of knowledge
extracted from Impression or the observation of Nature, and distinguished from mere Impression
or Nature on the one hand, and from Expression, Action, Performance, or Art--the reprojection
of the knowledge into new forms of being--on the other hand. In the more restricted sense,
Science means systematized knowledge, or, still more specifically, the Body of Principles or
Laws in accordance with which knowledge becomes systematized in the mind.

The larger and the smaller Art-Performances of Humanity--first, all the Work or Product of
the Creative Power of Man; and, secondly, Grand and Fine Art, as the Choice Product of that
faculty--are again epitomized in LANGUAGE or SPEECH. This last is the Sense-Bearing Product
of the Lips and Coöperative Organs, put representatively for the product of the hands and of
all the other instrumentalities of action.

It is in this representative sense that LANGUAGE is preëminently and distinctively denominated
EXPRESSION. But, as we have seen, Expression is the Equivalent and exact Reflect of Impression;
Art, of Nature; through the mediation of Science, meaning thereby the Laws of Knowing. These
Laws of Knowing thus hold an exact relation to the Laws of Doing; or, in other words, Scientific
Laws to Creative and Vital Laws, which last are the Laws of Administration, human and divine.
As an epitome or miniature, then, the Laws of Language must be an exact reproduction of the
Laws of the Universe. Language itself, in other words, must be an epitome or miniature image,
in all its perfection, of the Universe at large; as the image formed upon the retina of the
eye, though infinitely small in the comparison, is an exact epitome or image, inversely, of
the external world presented to the vision.

Let the reader guard himself well against supposing that what is here meant is the mere commonplace
truth that Language is the equivalent of our Impression of the Universe, in the fact that we
can, through the medium of Language, describe, and in that sense express, what we think and
feel of and about the Universe. What is here intended is something far more recondite than
this superficial relation between Speech, Thought, and the World thought about. It is this--That,
in the Phenomena, the Laws, and the Indications of the Structure of Language--considered as
a fabric, or Word-World--there is an exact image or reproduction, in a miniature way, of the
Phenomena, the Laws, and the Indications of the entire Universe; in so definite and traceable
a manner as to furnish to us, when the analogy is understood, a complete model and illustration
of the Science of the Universe as a whole.

If this be true, the immense importance of the discovery can hardly be over-estimated. We are
furnished by means of it with a simple object, of manageable dimensions, as the subject of
our direct investigations; which, when mastered, will, by reflection, and a definite law of
relation and proportion, enable us to master the Plan of the Universe; and so to constitute
a one Science out of the many Sciences by recognizing the Domains which they cover as parts
of a larger domain, which is equivalent to the whole.

Holding fast, then, to this thought, let us proceed to the endeavor so to distribute the totality
of the aspects of Language as to exhaust the subject; and, by a concurrent projection of the
analogies into the larger domain of the Universe as a whole, to establish a valid scientific
nexus between the minor and the major spheres of our investigation.

First recurring to the preceding table, and translating the Abstract Conceptions, NATURE, SCIENCE,
and ART, into their Concrete Equivalents or Analogies, they will stand thus:

     Abstract.             Concrete.
  3. ART.             3. HUMAN PRODUCTION. (Art Creation.)
  2. SCIENCE.         2. MAN.
  1. NATURE.          1. THE WORLD. (The Natural Universe.)

This is to say, that the World or the Natural Universe is put for the Natural Impression which
it makes of itself on the mind of the knowing subject; that the Knowing Subject is put in the
place of Knowledge; and that the Product of Activity--the Thing Created--is put for the Activity
itself or the Act of Creation.

It is clear enough that this distribution is exhaustive, thus: 1. The World, including, in
a sense, all things; but here contrasted with, and in that sense excluding, two of its own
minor domains; 2. Man, including Spirit, and God, in so far as human (not seeking to compass
or bring within our scientific classification whatsoever is divine in a sense absolutely supernatural
or transcending the Universe as such); 3. The Collective or Aggregate Product of Human Activity;
including, especially, as norm or sample, Grand and Fine Art, the Choice Product of Human Activity;
and, in a more especial sense, Language, as the Special or Typical EXPRESSION, which exactly
counterparts and represents the totality of IMPRESSION made by Primitive Nature or The World,
upon Man or the Human Mind.

Nature has again, therefore, like both Science and Art, as shown above, a double significance,
in the former and larger of which it includes and covers or envelops the two other departments
of Being; in the latter and smaller of which it excludes them, and makes Nature, or the World,
to stand over against them, as that which is to be compared with Man and the Product of the
Labor of Man; and in an especial sense with that particular product called Speech. The easy
transition from the minor to the larger conception of Nature or the World is what renders Language
a type, not only of the Universe as distinguished from Man and the Product of his Activity,
but equally a type of the Universe in that larger sense in which it embraces them both.

