It is not to be supposed, however, that these very ancient texts are read without the necessary
stumbling over obscure passages and much upsetting of cherished historical truth. The finest
presentations of ancient records that we find in grave historians are now set aside by learned
archæologists in communications to the Académie des Sciences à Paris or the Académie des Inscriptions
et Belles-Lettres. Even the original number of islands in the Seine and Cæsar's statements
concerning the Gauls and their manners and customs are now disputed. When it comes to the origin
of things and of peoples, the erudition is profound. M. G. de Mortillet proposes for the epoch
quaternaire or pléistocène four successive divisions,--in their order of antiquity, the Chelléen,
the Moustérien, the Solutréen, and the Magdalénien; M. Perrier du Carne thinks that the traces
of the Solutré and of the Madeleine show them to have been derived from two races long contemporary
on the same soil, of which the former were autochthonous and the latter, immigrants, who came
in with the reindeer and followed him when he retreated northward. M. Piette objects to the
word Magdalénien, and proposes to replace it by glyptique, for, during this period, man learned
to carve bones with flint instruments; after the Solutré he places the epoch Eburnéenne, and
after that, the Tarandienne, characterized by instruments in reindeer's horns. After the quaternary
period, Professor Alexandre Bertrand, of the École du Louvre, places the Mégalithiques, whom
he thinks belonged to the great ethnological family of the Touranians which preceded the Aryans
in Europe, and who erected the great stone monuments, dolmens, menhirs, cromlechs, etc., formerly
called druidical, found in various parts of Europe. Several of these monuments mégalithiques
have been discovered in Paris and its environs,--a street of the Faubourg du Temple owes its
name of Pierre-Levée (raised stone) to the fact that at its opening, in 1782, an enormous ancient
rock was found artificially supported on two others, the funerary tumulus, or mound, which
formerly covered it having disappeared.

As it is impossible to attribute any longer these prehistoric monuments to the "Celts," or
to "their priests, the Druids," so do others of our historical illusions vanish. M. Duruy,
in his learned Histoire de France, states that at the dawn of history the country known as
Gaul was "divided between three or four hundred tribes (peuplades) belonging to the three great
families,--the Celts, the Iberians, and the Belgians." M. Salomon Reinach, in his detailed
description of the monuments in the Museum of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, under the general title
of Antiquités nationales, declines to recognize the race celtique; in accord with the science
of anthropology he distinguishes various Gaulish types and is aware that they nowhere present
themselves in a pure state. Professor Bertrand "superposes" upon his Mégalithiques, whose distinguishing
trait in Europe is their use of polished stone, another race, numerically inferior and much
less ancient; these are the "tribus celtiques or celtisées of the Aryan race." When they arrived
in Gaul, they were already familiar with the use of metals, especially bronze, beginning to
be acquainted with iron; they were pastoral and agricultural, and burned their dead. About
the sixth century B.C. appeared a third group, the tribus galatiques, Helvetians, Kymrians,
Belgians; they were wandering bands of warriors, who used iron implements only and buried their
dead. "From the superposition, rather than from the fusion, of these divers elements has resulted
that which is called la nation gauloise or celtique."

Naturally, the religions of these varied nations were as diversified as their origins. The
Druids, according to Professor Bertrand, so far from forming the priesthood of a practically
homogeneous race, can be said to have had no influence upon the religion of the people, who
were alien to them and who remained faithful to their own worship of the spirits or powers
in nature and to their superstitious practices. "Druidism was, then, neither a dogma, nor a
religion, nor a particular theogony, but a social institution with an organization analogous
to that of the great abbeys of Ireland in the fifth and sixth centuries, or to the Lamaism
of Thibet. The Druids lived in communism, like the Lamas." Moreover, M. Bertrand refuses the
Druids all their fine old qualities,--human sacrifices; worship of stones; solstitial ceremonies,
such as the Yule-log and fires on the eve of Saint John; the herbs of Saint John; the worship
of fountains; the worship of trees, and medical prescriptions. Even more, what Guizot calls
their "noblest characteristic, a general and strong, but vague and incoherent, belief in the
immortality of the soul," was less a particular doctrine of their own than a sentiment innate
in the race; "they had only to develop ideas the germ of which had not been imported by them."
Nevertheless, so well organized was their communal order that they were, before the Roman epoch,
the only central, definite power capable of consecutiveness in its conceptions and of unity
in its views, and their influence over a gross and ignorant people was proportionally great.

To the chamanisme, or belief in the spirits that pervade nature, and in the power of man over
them by magic arts, of the original Touranians, the Celtic tribes brought the worship of natural
forces,--the sun, fire, torrents, tempests, mountains, etc.; but neither they nor the Druids
had any human figures or symbols in their pantheon. The invasions galatiques or kimrobelge,
on the contrary, brought in from the Orient a cult already strongly anthropomorphous, and with
these symbols, traditions, and divinities those of the Greeks and Romans became mingled to
a greater or lesser degree that it is impossible to determine, because, as it appears, all
that we really know of the Gaulish religion before the Roman conquest is reduced to a few lines
in Polybius, in which can be found the name of Perkunas, the Perkun of the Slavs. Cæsar identifies
the gods of the Gauls with the Roman ones, Mercury, Apollo, Mars, Jupiter, and Minerva; and
M. André Lefèvre, in the Revue mensuelle de l'École d'anthropologie, asks, without being able
to answer: "How is it possible that such men as Cæsar and Tacitus were able to confound with
Mercury the supreme gods of the Gauls and the Germans; but, still more, how is it that the
Gaul should have adopted with enthusiasm the Latin name and forgotten the Gaulish name of his
supreme god?" M. Reinach is considered to have proved beyond a doubt that the god with the
mallet, the Dispater of the Gallo-Roman period, was a sort of copy, in Gaulish attire, of the
Egyptian Serapis; and the inscriptions of the imperial epoch testify to the diffusion of the
worship of the divinities of Alexandria from Arles and Nîmes, in the extreme south, to Besançon,
almost on the borders of Switzerland, and Soissons, northeast of Paris. Nevertheless, those
archæologists who have thought they found traces of the art of Egypt and Babylon in that of
the original cave-dwellers are now considered to have been deceiving themselves; and M. Reinach
has modified the opinions he held a few years ago on the early religious art of Gaul. "In short,
what we know of Gaulish mythology amounts to nothing, or practically nothing."

Various rude images and fragments of altars found under the modern pavements of Paris at different
dates and localities--among others, under the choir of Notre-Dame in 1710--have revealed the
names, if not the characters, of some of the ancient divinities of the soil, Esus, Jovis, Volcanus,
Tarvos trigaramos, Cernunnos.

But if the scientists grope doubtingly in these twilights of history, the romancers relate
boldly. One of them, M. Henri Lavedan, has been calling up the Parisienne of the Lacustrine
age, "gran' maman archi-centennaire" of her of the present day. This is how she was. "Large,
thick, and short, with a vigorous figure, shaking out coarse and matted hair, the feet bare,
the arms bare, the breast half bare and unrestrained under her species of primitive corset.
The body is that of a handsome and robust decent human animal, a tanned skin, somewhat hairy.
The feet are large and powerful, like the hands, with cutting nails, square and hard. The visage,
high in color, with features that are simple and elementary, is lit up by eyes grey or blue,
eyes limpid and tranquil, which regard without vivacity, without appearing and disappearing
lights, without surprise, the eyes of an animal under the yoke and resigned to it, eyes only
too well acquainted with the eternal landscape which they have been reflecting ever since they
were first opened. The step is slow, sure, heavy, and majestic. Under her petticoat of sombre
color may be divined two great legs, the legs, almost, of a man, two legs of labor and of endurance.
She sings naturally, this woman, when she is alone, vague songs, sort of fugues of savages,
very simple, which seem to have neither beginning nor end, but in the company of others she
is almost taciturn, replying by gestures, by signs, accomplishing her task with a passive regularity.
She scarcely knows the lighter shades of sentiments and expressions. She laughs or she weeps.
No smiling. When she laughs, it is with a large display of the solid white teeth of a carnivorous
animal; when she weeps, it is with the deep sobs of a beaten child. She is strong and patient
like the ox, she runs like the horse, she resists cold, heat, and fatigue; her sleep is profound
and without dreams. She is more mother than wife, in the animal sense of the word; she is capable
of courage, of rude goodness and of devotion, but all of these naturally and by instinct. Her
life may be hard and long, she may retain until a very advanced age the plenitude of her vigor,
and die splitting wood or turning the mill.

"Should the wife cease to please her husband, he sells her again; should she commit a fault,
he strips her (the garments will serve for the new spouse); then he takes her by the hair and
smothers her in the marsh. Nevertheless, however miserable may be her condition of a domestic
animal, this creature has passions. Tacitus informs us that adultery was not unknown to the
purchased wife. The male children belonged to the father, and always remained with him; as
to the aged, the old relatives, useless and cumbering, they were put 'in a place apart,' a
sort of hollow in the neighborhood of the hole for the hogs or the enclosure for the cattle,
and there was thrown to them the remnants of the meals. The family sentiment, the voice of
kindred blood, did not, as yet, make itself heard very distinctly."

This information may be supplemented by various extracts from the ancient historians, who give
us the usual picture of early man in the barbarous stage, bellicose, blood-thirsty, brutal,
having the one virtue of courage. Cæsar says that when a man of importance died, his wives
were tortured and put to death by fire if suspected of being instrumental in his taking off;
but a short time before his conquests it was the custom to burn with the defunct his slaves
and his favorite clients. It was also said that the women were not constrained in their choice
of husbands, and that the latter were obliged to furnish an equivalent for the dowry brought
by the wife. Human sacrifices were offered on certain great occasions, and it was thought possible
that one of the upper stones of the great sepulchre discovered at Meudon in 1845, indicated
one of the sites dedicated to these offerings.

Of the many attempts that have been made to restore the primitive man in his environments,
one of the most learned and interesting is that shown by M. Cormon, the painter, in his series
of large decorations for the plafond and walls of some ethnological museum, exhibited in the
Salon of 1898. But an artist is an impossible archæologist; the more of an artist he is, the
more will he be unwilling to represent the merely bestial, as the scientist finds it; and though
the original inhabitant of the valley of the Seine and other favored spots may have circulated
in some such early landscape, and have garbed himself and tattooed himself somewhat as the
painter here paints him, it is probable that there was far less of the picturesque and presentable
about him, of grace of attitude and whiteness of skin in his women-folk, than in any artist's
presentation on a self-respecting canvas.

The habitations of the early Parisian were equally unlike those familiar to the Cook's tourist.
On the pedestal of an antique statue of Melpomene of heroic size in the Louvre is a relief
representing the head of a supposed Gaul defending his house against a Roman soldier, and this
sculpture, confirmed by others on the column of Antoninus at Rome of those of the German barbarians,
gives this dwelling as a species of circular, upright hut, covered with a conical-shaped roof
constructed of branches and reeds, or thatch, or perhaps of a half-spherical piece of wood.

In the soil of the tertiary, or quaternary, basin in which Paris lies are found traces of marine
plants, oyster-shells, skeletons of fish, etc., which indicate that it has risen from the bottom
of the sea. As every one knows, the Seine, flowing in a general direction from east to west,
curves toward the north to traverse the heart of the city, the former Palais de l'Industrie,
but just demolished, having occupied nearly the centre of the upward curve of this bow. On
the south, the river receives the waters of the Bièvre, a feeble stream which flows through
a narrow valley, and, farther eastward, those of the river Marne. Under the Roman domination
and that of the first Merovingian kings, that part of the city lying immediately south of the
river seems to have become the most populous and important almost as soon as the narrow limits
of the original islands became too confining. The pride of the Faubourg Saint-Germain may date
itself back for some fifteen centuries. A central, principal street traversed the city from
south to north, entering it in the general direction of the Rue Saint-Jacques, passing on the
east side of the imperial palace whose ruins may still be seen in the Musée des Thermes, at
the corner of the Boulevard Saint-Germain and Boulevard Saint-Michel. Under the Rue Saint-Jacques
remains of the ancient pavement have been found at a great depth, and a fragment of it is preserved
in the Musée de Cluny. The Roman street crossed the small arm of the Seine on a wooden bridge,
near where is now the Petit-Pont, traversed the Ile de la Cité, at the western end of what
is to-day the Place du Parvis-Notre-Dame, and crossed the larger branch of the river near the
site of the present Pont Notre-Dame. On the northern shore, it followed for some distance nearly
the course of the present Rue Saint-Denis, and then forked,--one branch continuing in a general
northerly direction toward Senlis, and the other turning off to the northwest, in the direction
of the Bourse, toward Clichy, Saint-Ouen, Saint-Denis, and, finally, Rouen by the valley of
the Montmorency.

Of the stately buildings erected by the Roman officers sent to govern the city on the Seine
and the province of which it was the capital, the only remains now above ground are those preserved
in the Musée des Thermes, in somewhat curious juxtaposition with the late fifteenth-century
Hôtel de Cluny. These ruins represent the great Roman baths of the palace, the frigidarium,
the piscine, the tepidarium, and, somewhat deeper, the hypocaustum, or furnace for heating.
By their size and importance, these ancient walls testify to the dignity of the imperial palace
which rose on this site, and, surrounded by its gardens, extended along the southern bank of
the Seine. Of the date of the erection of this Palatium Thermarum seu Thermæ Parisiaci nothing
definite is known; it is generally ascribed to Constantius, surnamed Chlorus, "the pale," father
of Constantine the Great, who died in 306 A.D. It is considered certain that it was occupied
by Julian, and by Valentinian I, and Valens; after the expulsion of the Romans by the Franks,
it served as a residence for the kings of the first and second race, and was still an important
edifice in 1180 when Philippe-Auguste presented it to his chamberlain, Henri. About 1340 it
passed into the possession of the Abbé of Cluny, Pierre de Chaslus.

These very antique walls are preserved by the national authorities in a manner that might be
considered as more satisfactory to the lovers of the picturesque than to the archæologists.
They are exposed to all the disintegrating influences of the sun and rain, much blackened by
the Parisian climate, which darkens everything exposed to it, and largely overgrown with creeping
vines. They are constructed of squared stones interspersed with layers of brick, with rectangular
and arched niches, filled-up arches at the base of which may be seen still the remnants of
the prows of ships, and in the niches are still the remains of the earthenware pipes that conveyed
the water to the baths. The student of architecture is interested to observe here that the
Roman bricks were much longer than ours, and only about an inch and a half thick. Their original,
cheerful red still shows occasionally through the Parisian blackness. He will, however, probably
be somewhat disturbed by the fine indifference of the authorities to styles and chronologies.
In the place of the missing wall of the piscine is set the arched porch of the cloister of
the Benedictines of Argenteuil; inside the enclosures are tumulary stones, with inscriptions
in Hebrew, found on the site of the publishing house of Hachette. In the pleasant green garden
in front of these ruins, and in which the bare-legged Parisian children play at soldiers or
at digging gravel in the paths, are more incongruous mediæval bits of architecture and sculpture,--placid
Madonnas and Annunciations, much defaced by time; gargoyles from the church of Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois,
in what may be called the size of life, agonizing and tormented by queer little beasts like
weasels under their throats or bellies, and, guarding the gateway at the angle of the boulevards,
three great, deformed figures of the animals of the Evangelists, the Lion, the Eagle, and the
Ox, from the tower of Saint-Jacques-la-Boucherie, where they have been replaced by copies.

For a number of centuries these ruins were forgotten, and were even concealed until 1810 under
hanging-gardens constructed above them. In 1819 it was proposed to establish in the Thermes
a museum for the Gaulish and Roman antiquities discovered in the soil of Paris; but this project
was not carried out until 1836, when, through the action of the Prefect of the Seine and the
Conseil Municipal, the remains of the Roman palace became the property of the city. Seven years
later, the State having acquired the Hôtel de Cluny and the collection Sommerard, the city
offered the Palais des Thermes to the national government, and the two museums were united
in one national one. The project of M. E. du Sommerard, of clearing away all the surrounding
modern buildings, opening the new streets and planting the garden, was finally put in the way
of being realized in 1856.

The site of this palace, the ruins of which are among the most important in France, was on
the lower slopes of Mount Lucotitius, afterward the mount of Sainte-Geneviève, overlooking
both the city and the Roman road to Genabum (Orléans). Its dependent buildings and enclosures
seem to have extended as far south as the Rue Soufflot, in front of the Panthéon, ruins of
foundation-walls having been located at various periods in this quarter. Its magnificent baths
were probably preserved during the earlier Christian centuries, when the civilization of the
Romans had not entirely disappeared, until the siege of Paris by the Normans in the ninth century.
On this (southern) side of the river have also been discovered the ruins of an amphitheatre,
traces of a quarter or barracks for soldiers, another establishment of baths, the aqueduct
of Arcueil, a great cemetery on the southern slopes of Mount Lucotitius, secondary roads, and
a port on the smaller arm of the Seine. In the Luxembourg garden have been unearthed at various
periods numerous fragments of painted walls; seven hundred large Roman medals in bronze and
two hundred in silver, all enclosed in a species of chest of tiles, and covered with a silver
plate, and supposed to have been the treasury of a rich Gallo-Roman country-house; a statuette
of Mercury; a bust of Cybele; pits to preserve grain, etc.

Another of these important palaces or suburban villas was seated on the northern slopes of
the Butte Montmartre, which rises some hundred mètres above the level of the Seine, on the
other side of the river,--a site which gave it an admirable extended view over the city and
the surrounding plains. The most important ruins which have been discovered north of the river
are the remnants of the aqueduct to convey water from Passy, large basins on the site of the
Palais-Royal, various highways branching off to the north and east and extensive cemeteries
near these roads, and numerous Roman medals and coins in various localities,--sufficient to
demonstrate the existence of an extensive and important population. Montmartre is supposed
to have derived its name from having been the site of a temple of Mars (Mons Martis); or from
having been the scene of the martyrdom of Saint Denis, the first bishop of Paris, and his companions,
A.D. 270 (Mons Martyrum).

Buried under the modern pavement of the Ile de la Cité, the Gaulish Oppidum, are many vestiges
of the Roman occupation. In 1847 numerous remains of the construction of houses during this
period and of what was considered to be a church dedicated to the Virgin were discovered under
the open place in front of Notre-Dame; of these, careful drawings were made, engraved, and
published in the Statistique monumentale de Paris and the structures then covered up again;
in the following year, excavations made in the course of enlarging the Palais de Justice brought
to light in the court of the Sainte-Chapelle and under the houses to the south of it remains
of walls of the ancient Roman palace. The old historians of Paris, indeed, relying upon the
testimony of Ammianus Marcellinus, state that one of the two Roman palaces was situated in
the western end of the island which formed the ancient Lutetia. In 1844 the laying out of a
new street between the Palais de Justice and the Hôtel-Dieu revealed two portions of edifices
the use of which was unknown, but which, by the thickness of their walls and the nature of
their construction, were supposed to have formed some part of the public structures. It has
been considered that these various vestiges of important buildings situated in the centre of
Lutetia indicate that they surrounded an open market-place or commercial exchange.

