Peninsulas not infrequently gain in breadth as they approach the continent; here they tend
to abate their distinctive character as lobes of the mainland, together with the ethnic and
historical marks of isolation. Here they form a doubtful boundary zone of mingled continental
and peninsular development. Such peninsulas fall naturally, therefore, into a continental and
a peninsular section, and reveal this segmentation in the differentiated history of the two
portions. That great military geographer Napoleon distinguished the Italy of the Po basin as
Italie continentale, and the Apennine section as Presqu'ile. Not only is the former broader,
but, expanding like a tree trunk near the ground, it sends its roots well back into the massive
interior of the continent; it is dominated more by the Alps than by the Apennines; it contains
a lowland and a river of continental proportions, for which there is no space on the long,
narrow spur of southern Italy. If its geographical character approximates that of the mainland,
so does its ethnic and historical. The Po basin is a well defined area of race characterization,
in which influences have made for intermixture. South of the crest of the Apennines the Italian
language in its purity begins, in contrast to the Gallo-Italian of the north. This mountain
ridge has also held apart the dark, short dolichocephalic stock of the Mediterranean race from
the fairer, taller, broad-headed Celts, who have moved down into the Po basin from the Alps,
and the Germans and Illyrians who have entered it from the northeast.[786] Northern Italy is
therefore allied ethnically, as it has often been united politically, to the neighboring countries
abutting upon the Alps, so that it has experienced only in a partial degree that detachment
which has stamped the history of the Apennine section.

[Sidenote: Historical contrast between base and extremity.]

The Balkan Peninsula tells much the same story of contrasted geographic conditions and development
in its continental and peninsular sections. Greece proper, in ancient as in modern times, reached
its northern confines where the peninsula suddenly widens its base through Macedonia and Thrace.
In this narrow southern section to-day, especially in isolated Peloponnesus, Attica, and the
high-walled garden of Thessaly, are found people of the pure, long-headed, Hellenic type, and
here the Greek language prevails.[787] But that broad and alien north, long excluded from the
Amphictyonic Council and a stranger to Aegean culture in classical times, is occupied to-day
by a congeries of Slavs, who form a southwestern spur of the Slav stock covering eastern Europe.
Its political history shows how often it has been made a Danubian or continental state, by
Alexander of Macedon, by the Romans, Bulgarians, and Ottoman Turks,[788] as it may be some
day by Russia; and also how often its large and compact form has enabled it to dominate the
tapering peninsular section to the south.

In the same way, the vast Ganges and Indus basins, which constitute the continental portion
of India, have received various Tibetan, Scythian, Aryan, Pathan, and Mongol-Tartar ingredients
from Central Asia; and by reason of the dense populations supported by these fruitful river
plains, it has been able to dominate politically, religiously and culturally the protruding
triangle of the Deccan. [See maps pages 8 and 102.] The continental side of Arabia, the Mesopotamian
valley which ties the peninsula to the highlands of Persia and Armenia, has received into its
Semitic stock constant infiltrations of Turanian and Aryan peoples from the core of Asia. This
process has been going on from the ancient Elamite and Persian conquests of Mesopotamia down
to the Ottoman invasion and the present periodic visits of Kurdish shepherds to the pastures
of the upper Tigris.[789] Here we have the same contrast of geographic conditions as in Italy
and India, a wide, populous alluvial plain occupying the continental section of the peninsula,
and a less attractive highland or mountainous region in the outlying spur of land.

[Sidenote: Continental base a scene of invasion and war.]

These continental sections of peninsulas become therefore strongly marked as areas of ethnic
characterization and differentiated historical development. Their threshold location, by reason
of which they first catch any outward migration from the core of the continent, and their fertility,
which serves as a perennial lure to new comers, whether peaceful or warlike, combine to give
them intense historical activity. They catch the come and go between their wide hinterland
and the projection of land beyond, the stimulus of new arrivals and fresh blood. But tragedy
too is theirs. The Po Valley has been called "the cockpit of Europe." Even the little Eider,
which marks the base of Jutland, has been the scene of war between Danes and Germans since
the tenth century.[790] The Indus Valley has again and again felt the shock of conflict with
invading hordes from the central highlands, and witnessed the establishment of a succession
of empires. Peace at the gates of the Balkan Peninsula has never been of long duration, and
the postern door of Korea has been stormed often enough.

[Sidenote: Peninsular extremities as areas of isolation.]

In contrast to these continental sections which stand in contact with the solid land-mass behind,
the extremities of the peninsulas are areas of isolation and therefore generally of ethnic
unity. They often represent the last stand of displaced people pressed outward into these narrow
quarters by expanding races in their rear. The vast triangle of the Deccan, which forms the
essentially peninsular part of India, is occupied, except in the more exposed northwest corner,
by the Dravidian race which once occupied all India, and afterward was pushed southward by
the influx of more energetic peoples.[791] Here they have preserved their speech and nationality
unmixed and live in almost primitive simplicity.[792] In the peninsular parts of Great Britain,
in northern Scotland. Wales and Cornwall, we find people of Celtic speech brought to bay on
these remote spurs of the land, affiliating little with the varied folk which occupied the
continental side of the island, and resisting conquest to the last.[793] The mountainous peninsula
of western Connaught in Ireland has been the rocky nucleus of the largest Celtic-speaking community
in the island.[794] Brittany, with a similar location, became the last refuge of Celtic speech
on the mainland of Europe,[795] the seat of resistance to Norman and later to English conquest,
finally the stronghold of conservatism in the French Revolution.

[Sidenote: Ethnic unity of peninsulas.]

The northern wall of the Apennines and the outpost barrier of the Alps have combined to protect
peninsular Italy from extensive ethnic infusions from the direction of the continent. This
portion of the country shows therefore, as the anthropological maps attest, a striking uniformity
of race. It has been a melting-pot in which foreign elements, filtering through the breaches
of the Apennines or along the southern coast, have been fused into the general population under
the isolating and cohesive influences of a peninsular environment.[796] The population of the
Iberian Peninsula is even more unified, probably the most homogeneous in Europe. Here the long-headed
Mediterranean race is found in the same purity as in island Corsica and Sardinia.[797] Spain's
short line of contact with France and its sharp separation by the unbroken wall of the Pyrenees
robs the peninsula of any distinctly continental section, and consequently of any transitional
area of race and culture; hence the unity of Spain as opposed to that twofold balanced diversity
which we find in Italy and India. The Balkan Peninsula, on the other hand, owing to the great
predominance of its continental section and the confused relief of the country, has not protected
its distinctively peninsular or Greek section from the southward migrations of Slavs, Albanians,
Wallachians, and other continental peoples.[798] It has been like a big funnel with a small
mouth; the pressure from above has been very great. Hellas and even the Peloponnesus have had
their peninsularity impaired and their race mixed, owing to the predominant continental section
to the north.

[Sidenote: Peninsulas as intermediaries.]

Peninsulas, so far as they project from their continents, are areas of isolation; but so far
as they extend also toward some land beyond, they become intermediaries. The isolating and
intermediary aspects can be traced in the anthropo-geographical effects of every peninsula,
even those which, like Brittany and Cornwall, project into the long uncharted waste of the
Atlantic. In the order of historical development, a peninsula first isolates, until in its
secluded environment it has molded a mature, independent people; then, as that people outgrows
its narrow territory, the peninsula becomes a favorable base for maritime expansion to distant
lands, or becomes a natural avenue for numerous reciprocal relations with neighboring lands
beyond. Korea was the bridge for Mongolian migration from continental Asia to the Japan islands,
and for the passage thither of Chinese culture, whether intellectual, esthetic, industrial
or religious.[799] It has been the one country conspicuous in the foreign history of Japan.
Conquered by the island empire in 1592, it paid tribute for nearly three centuries and yielded
to its foreign master the southeastern port of Fusan, the Calais of Korea.[800] Since the treaty
of Portsmouth in 1905 made it subject to Japan, it has become the avenue of Japanese expansion
to the mainland and the unwilling recipient of the modern civilization thrust upon it by these
English of the East. In like manner the Pyrenean peninsula has always been the intermediary
between Europe and northwest Africa. Its population, as well as its flora and fauna, group
with those of the southern continent. It has served as transit land between north and south
for the Carthaginians, Vandals and Saracens; and in modern times it has maintained its character
as a link by the Portuguese occupation of the Tangiers peninsula in the fifteenth century,[801]
and the Spanish possession of Ceuta and various other points along the Moroccan coast from
the year 709 A.D. to the present.[802]

[Sidenote: Peninsulas of intercontinental location.]

This rôle of intermediary is inevitably thrust upon all peninsulas which, like Spain, Italy,
Greece, Asia Minor, Arabia, Farther India, Malacca, Chukchian Siberia, and Alaska, occupy an
intercontinental location. Arabia especially in its climate, flora, races and history shows
the haul and pull now of Asia, now of Africa. From it Asiatic influences have spread over Africa
to Morocco and the Niger River on the west, and to Zanzibar on the south, permeated Abyssinia,
and penetrated to the great Equatorial Lakes, whether in the form of that Mecca-born worship
of Allah, or the creeping caravans and slave-gangs of Arab trader. Of all such intercontinental
peninsulas, Florida alone seems to have had no rôle as an intermediary. Its native ethnic affinities
were wholly with its own continent. It has given nothing to South America and received nothing
thence. The northward expansion of Arawak and Carib tribes from Venezuela in historic times
ceased at Cuba and Hayti. The Straits drew a dividing line. Local conditions in Florida itself
probably furnish the explanation of this anomaly. Extensive swamps made the central and southern
portion of the peninsula inhospitable to colonization from either direction, transformed it
from a link into a barrier.

[Sidenote: Atlantic peninsulas of Europe]

Peninsulas which conspicuously lack an intercontinental location must long await their intermediary
phase of development, but do not escape it. The Cornish, Breton and Iberian peninsulas were
all prominent in the trans-Atlantic enterprises of Europe from the end of the fifteenth century.
The first French sailors to reach the new world were Breton and Norman fishermen. Plymouth,
as the chief port of the Cornish peninsula, figures prominently in the history of English exploration
and settlement in America. It seems scarcely accidental that most of Queen Elizabeth's great
sea captains were natives of this district--Sir Francis Drake, Sir John Hawkins, Sir Humphrey
Gilbert, and Sir Walter Raleigh, the latter holding the office of vice-admiral of Cornwall
and Devon. It was the peninsula-like projection of South America about Cape St. Roque, twenty
degrees farther east than Labrador, that welcomed the ships of Cabral and Americus Vespucius,
and secured to Portugal a foothold in the Western Hemisphere.

NOTES TO CHAPTER XII

[747] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 336. London, 1896-1898.

[748] D.G. Brinton, The American Race, p. 41. Philadelphia, 1901.

[749] D.G. Brinton, Races and Peoples, pp. 239-240. Philadelphia, 1901.

[750] A.E. Wallace, Island Life, p. 14. New York, 1892.

[751] A. Heilprin, Geographical Distribution of Animals, p. 69, map. 1887.

[752] Ibid., pp. 78, 82, 90, 100.

[753] Darwin, Origin of Species, Chap. XII. New York, 1895. A.R. Wallace, Island Life, p. 6.
New York, 1892.

[754] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, Map on p. 43. New York, 1899.

[755] Ibid., pp. 39, 50, 80. Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. II, pp. 100-110. London, 1896-1898.

[756] A.H. Keane, Ethnology, pp. 231-232, 362. Cambridge, 1896.

[757] McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, p. 56, Vol. XIX of History of North America.
Philadelphia, 1905.

[758] Fiske, Discovery of America, Vol. I, p. 224. Boston, 1893.

[759] For various Asiatic and Oceanic elements, see Franz Boas, The Indians of British Columbia,
Bull. of the Amer. Geog. Society Vol. 28, p. 229. The Northwest Coast Tribes, Science, Vol.
XII, pp. 194-196. Niblack, The Indians of the Northwest Coast, p. 385, Washington. H.H. Bancroft,
The Native Races, Vol. I, pp. 177, 178, footnote; pp. 210, 225. San Francisco, 1886. W.Z. Ripley,
Races of Europe, map p. 42. New York, 1899.

[760] T.W. Higginson and William Macdonald, History of the United States, p. 21. New York and
London, 1905. Oxford, 1899.

[762] Justin Winsor, Narrative and Critical History, Vol. I, p. 60. Boston, 1889.

[763] Cited by E.J. Payne, History of the New World Called America, Vol. II, p. 292, footnote
p. 294. Oxford, 1899.

[764] Waldemar Jochelson, The Mythology of the Koryak, The American Anthropologist, Vol. VI,
pp. 415-416, 421-425. 1904.

[765] W.D. Dall, Masks, Labrets, and Certain Aboriginal Customs, Third Annual Report of Bureau
of Ethnology, pp. 46-147. Washington, 1884.

[766] O.T. Mason, Migration and the Food Quest, pp. 275-292. Washington, 1894.

[767] McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, pp. 51, 58-82. Philadelphia, 1905. Ratzel,
History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 5-7, 145-147, 153-154. London, 1896-1898.

[768] Ripley, Races of Europe, map p. 42, pp. 43-44. New York, 1899.

[769] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 7. London, 1896-1898.

[770] Tylor, Anthropology, pp. 86-87. New York, 1881. Oxford, 1899.

[772] Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, p. 17. Gotha, 1905.

[773] Carl Ritter, Comparative Geography, pp. 188-212. Translated by W.L. Gage, Philadelphia,
1865. N.S. Shaler, Nature and Man in America, pp. 11-18, 151-165. New York, 1896.

[774] Strabo, Book II, chap. V. 26.

[775] McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, p. 3, map. Philadelphia, 1905.

[776] D.G. Brinton, Races and Peoples, pp. 248-249. Philadelphia, 1901.

[777] D.G. Brinton, The American Race, pp. 58, 103-104. Philadelphia, 1901. McGee and Thomas,
Prehistoric North America, p. 86.

[778] Ibid., p. 293. E.J. Payne, History of the New World Called America, Vol. II, p. 315.
Oxford, 1899.

[779] Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 412-417. McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, pp. 72-75.
Philadelphia, 1905. Washington, 1884.

[781] Cyrus Thomas, Report of Mound Explorations, pp. 522-523, 722-728. Twelfth Annual Report
of the Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, 1894. Oxford, 1899.

[783] N.S. Shaler, Nature and Man in America, pp. 151, 168-173. New York, 1891.

[784] Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, p. 9. Gotha, 1905.

[785] Carl Ritter, Comparative Geography, pp. 191-192. Translated by W. L. Gage, Philadelphia,
1865.

[786] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 247-258. New York, 1899.

[787] Ibid., pp. 403-409.

[788] E.A. Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, Atlas, Maps, 34, 49. London, 1882.

[789] For race elements in Mesopotamia, see D.G. Hogarth, The Nearer East, Maps, pp. 173 and
176. London, 1903.

[790] E.A. Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, pp. 201-202, 506-508, 535-536, 541. London,
1882.

[791] Imperial Gazetteer of India, Vol. I, pp. 293-297. Oxford, 1907.

[792] Sir Thomas Holdich, India, Ethnographical map, p. 201, pp. 202, 213-216. London, 1905.
B.H. Baden-Powell, The Indian Village Community, pp. 111, 116, 119, 161. London, 1896.

[793] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 312-321. New York, 1899. E. Reclus, Europe, Vol. IV,
pp. 73, 83-84. New York, 1882.

[794] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, Ethnographic map, p. 184, and p. 306. London,
1904.

[795] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 22, 23, 150-151. New York, 1899.

[796] Ibid., pp. 248, 258, 272.

[797] Ibid., pp. 247, 273.

[798] Ibid., pp. 403-409, and map.

[799] F. Brinkley, Japan, Vol. I, pp. 38-42, 70, 75-80, 83-84, 126. Boston and Tokyo, 1901.
W.E. Griffis, The Mikado's Empire, Vol. I, pp. 73, 83. New York, 1903.

[801] E.A. Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, p. 558. London, 1882.

[802] Ibid., pp. 559, 561. Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Vol. V, p. 248. New
York, 1858.

CHAPTER XIII

ISLAND PEOPLES

[Sidenote: Physical relationship between islands and peninsulas.]

The characteristics which mark peninsulas, namely, ample contact with the sea, small area as
compared with that of the continents, peripheral location, more or less complete isolation,
combined, however, with the function of bridge or passway to yet remoter lands, are all accentuated
in islands. A list of the chief peninsulas of the world, as compared with the greatest islands,
shows a far larger scale of areas for the former, even if the latter be made to include the
vast ice-capped land-mass of Greenland (2,170,000 square kilometers or 846,000 square miles).
New Guinea, the largest habitable island, has only one-fourth the area of Arabia, the largest
of the peninsulas.[803] Therefore, both the advantages and disadvantages incident to a restricted
area may be expected to appear in an intensified degree in islands.

Peninsulas are morphologically transition forms between mainland and islands; by slight geological
changes one is converted into the other. Great Britain was a peninsula at the end of the Tertiary
period, before subsidence and the erosion of Dover Channel combined to sever it from the continent.
It bears to-day in its flora and fauna the evidence of its former broad connection with the
mainland.[804] In Pliocene times, Sicily and Sardinia were united by a land bridge with the
Tunisian projection of North Africa; and they too, in their animal and plant life, reveal the
old connection with the southern continent.[805] Sometimes man himself for his own purposes
converts a peninsula into an island. Often he constructs a canal, like that at Kiel or Corinth,
to remove an isthmian obstruction to navigation; but occasionally he transforms his peninsula
into an island for the sake of greater protection. William of Rubruquis tells us that in 1253
he found the neck of the Crimea cut through by a ditch from sea to sea by the native Comanians,
who had taken refuge in the peninsula from the Tartar invaders, and in this way had sought
to make their asylum more secure.[806]

The reverse process in nature is quite as common. The Shangtung Peninsula rises like a mountainous
island from the sea-like level of alluvial plains about it, suggesting that remote time when
the plains were not yet deposited and an arm of the Yellow Sea covered the space between Shangtung
and the highlands of Shansi.[807] The deposition of silt, aided often by slight local elevation
of the coast, is constantly tying continental islands to the mainland. The Echinades Archipelago
off the southwest coast of ancient Acarnania, opposite the mouth of the Achelous River, Strabo
tells us, was formerly farther from shore than in his time, and was gradually being cemented
to the mainland by Achelous silt. Some islets had already been absorbed in the advancing shoreline,
and the same fate awaited others.[808] Farther up this western coast of Greece, the island
of Leukas has been converted into a peninsula by a sickle-shaped sandbar extending across the
narrow channel.[809] Nature is working in its leisurely way to attach Sakhalin to the Siberian
coast. The strong marine current which sets southward from the Okhotsk Sea through the Strait
of Tartary carries silt from the mouth of the heavy laden Amur River, and deposits it in the
"narrows" of the strait between Capes Luzarev and Pogobi, building up sandbars that come dangerously
near the surface in mid channel.[810] Here the water is so shallow that occasionally after
long prevailing winds, the ground is left exposed and the island natives can walk over to Asia.[811]
The close proximity of Sakhalin to the mainland and the ice bridge covering the strait in winter
rob the island of much of its insular character and caused it to pass as a peninsula until
1852. Yet that five-mile wide stretch of sea on its western coast determined its selection
as the great penal station of the Russian Empire. The fact that peninsular India accords in
so many points of flora, fauna and even primitive ethnic stock with Madagascar and South Africa,
indicates its former island nature, which has been geographically cloaked by its union with
the continent of Asia.

[Sidenote: Character of insular flora and fauna.]

Islands, because of their relatively limited area and their clearly defined boundaries, are
excellent fields for the study of floral, faunal, and ethnic distribution. Small area and isolation
cause in them poverty of animal and plant forms and fewer species than are found in an equal
continental area. This is the curse of restricted space which we have met before. The large
island group of New Zealand, with its highly diversified relief and long zonal stretch, has
only a moderate list of flowering plants, in comparison with the numerous species that adorn
equal areas in South Africa and southwestern Australia.[812] Ascension possessed originally
less than six flowering plants. The four islands of the Greater Antilles form together a considerable
area and have all possible advantages of climate and soil; but there are probably no continental
areas equally big and equally favored by nature which are so poor in all the more highly organized
groups of animals.[813] Islands tend to lop off the best branches. Darwin found not a single
indubitable case of terrestrial mammals native to islands situated more than three hundred
miles from the mainland.[814] The impoverishment extends therefore to quality as well as quantity,
to man as well as to brute. In the island continent of Australia, the native mammalia, excepting
some bats, a few rodents, and a wild dog, all belong to the primitive marsupial sub-class;
its human life, at the time of the discovery, was restricted to one retarded negroid race,
showing in every part of the island a monotonous, early Stone Age development. The sparsely
scattered oceanic islands of the Atlantic, owing to excessive isolation, were all, except the
near-lying Canaries, uninhabited at the time of their discovery; and the Canary Islanders showed
great retardation as compared with their parent stock of northern Africa. [See map page 105.]

[Sidenote: Endemic forms.]

Despite this general poverty of species, island life is distinguished by a great proportion
of peculiar or endemic forms, and a tendency toward divergence, which is the effect of isolation
and which becomes marked in proportion to the duration and effectiveness of isolation. Isolation,
by reducing or preventing the intercrossing which holds the individual true to the normal type
of the species, tends to produce divergences.[815] Hence island life is more or less differentiated
from that of the nearest mainland, according to the degree of isolation. Continental islands,
lying near the coast, possess generally a flora and fauna to a large extent identical with
that of the mainland, and show few endemic species and genera; whereas remote oceanic islands,
which isolation has claimed for its own, are marked by intense specialization and a high percentage
of species and even genera found nowhere else.[816] Even a narrow belt of dividing sea suffices
to loosen the bonds of kinship. Recent as are the British Isles and near the Continent, they
show some biological diversity from the mainland and from each other.[817]

[Sidenote: Paradoxical influences of island habitats upon man.]

The influence of an island habitat upon its human occupants resembles that upon its flora and
fauna, but is less marked. The reason for this is twofold. The plant and animal life are always
the older and therefore have longer felt the effects of isolation; hence they bear its stamp
in an intensified degree. Man, as a later comer, shows closer affinity to his kin in the great
cosmopolitan areas of the continents. More than this, by reason of his inventiveness and his
increasing skill in navigation, he finds his sea boundary less strictly drawn, and therefore
evades the full influence of his detached environment, though never able wholly to counteract
it. For man in lowest stages of civilization, as for plants and animals, the isolating influence
is supreme; but with higher development and advancing nautical efficiency, islands assume great
accessibility because of their location on the common highway of the ocean. They become points
of departure and destination of maritime navigation, at once center of dispersal and goal,
the breeding place of expansive national forces seeking an outlet, and a place of hospitality
for wanderers passing those shores. Yet all the while, that other tendency of islands to segregate
their people, and in this aloofness to give them a peculiar and indelible national stamp, much
as it differentiates its plant and animal forms, is persistently operative.

[Sidenote: Conservative and radical tendencies.]

These two antagonistic influences of an island environment may be seen working simultaneously
in the same people, now one, now the other being dominant; or a period of undisturbed seclusion
or exclusion may suddenly be followed by one of extensive intercourse, receptivity or expansion.
Recall the contrast in the early and later history of the Canaries, Azores, Malta, England,
Mauritius and Hawaii, now a lonely, half-inhabited waste, now a busy mart or teeming way-station.
Consider the pronounced insular mind of the globe-trotting Englishman, the deep-seated local
conservatism characterizing that world-colonizing nation, at once the most provincial and cosmopolitan
on earth. Emerson says with truth, "Every one of these islanders is an island himself, safe,
tranquil, incommunicable."[818] Hating innovation, glorifying their habitudes, always searching
for a precedent to justify and countenance each forward step, they have nevertheless led the
world's march of progress. Scattered by their colonial and commercial enterprises over every
zone, in every clime, subjected to the widest range of modifying environments, they show in
their ideals the dominant influence of the home country. The trail of the Oxford education
can be followed over the Empire, east to New Zealand and west to Vancouver. Highschool students
of Jamaica take Oxford examinations in botany which are based upon English plant life and ignore
the Caribbean flora! School children in Ceylon are compelled to study a long and unfamiliar
list of errors in English speech current only in the London streets, in order to identify and
correct them on the Oxford papers, distributed with Olympian impartiality to all parts of the
Empire. Such insularity of mind seems to justify Bernard Shaw's description of Britain as an
island whose natives regard its manners and customs as laws of nature. Yet these are the people
who in the Nile Valley have become masters of irrigation, unsurpassed even by the ancient Egyptians;
who, in the snow-wrapped forests of Hudson Bay, are trappers and hunters unequalled by the
Indians; who, in the arid grasslands of Australia, pasture their herds like nomad shepherd
or American cowboy, and in the Tropics loll like the natives, but somehow manage to do a white
man's stint of work.

[Sidenote: The case of Japan.]

In Japan, isolation has excluded or reduced to controllable measure every foreign force that
might break the continuity of the national development or invade the integrity of the national
ideal. Japan has always borrowed freely from neighboring Asiatic countries and recently from
the whole world; yet everything in Japan bears the stamp of the indigenous. The introduction
of foreign culture into the Empire has been a process of selection and profound modification
to accord with the national ideals and needs.[819] Buddhism, coming from the continent, was
Japanized by being grafted on to the local stock of religious ideas, so that Japanese Buddhism
is strongly differentiated from the continental forms of that religion.[820] The seventeenth
century Catholicism of the Jesuits, before it was hospitably received, had to be adapted to
Japanese standards of duty and ritual. Modern Japanese converts to Christianity wish themselves
to conduct the local missions and teach a national version of the new faith.[821] But all the
while, Japanese religion has experienced no real change of heart. The core of the national
faith is the indigenous Shinto cult, which no later interloper has been permitted to dislodge
or seriously to transform; and this has survived, wrapped in the national consciousness, wedded
to the national patriotism, lifted above competition. Here is insular conservatism.

Japan's sudden and complete abandonment of a policy of seclusion which had been rigidly maintained
for two hundred and fifty years, and her entrance upon a career of widespread intercourse synchronously
with one of territorial expansion and extensive emigration, form one of those apparently irreconcilable
contradictions constantly springing from the isolation and world-wide accessibility of an island
environment; yet underlying Japan's present receptivity of new ideas and her outwardly indiscriminate
adoption of western civilization is to be detected the deep primal stamp of the Japanese character,
and an instinctive determination to preserve the core of that character intact.

[Sidenote: Islands as nurseries and disseminators of distinctive civilizations.]

It is this marked national individuality, developed by isolation and accompanied often by a
precocious civilization, in combination with the opposite fact of the imminent possibility
of an expansive unfolding, a brilliant efflorescence followed by a wide dispersal of its seeds
of culture and of empire, which has assigned to islands in all times a great historical rôle.
Rarely do these wholly originate the elements of civilization. For that their area is too small.
But whatever seed ripen in the wide fields of the continents the islands transplant to their
own forcing houses; there they transform and perfect the flower. Japan borrowed freely from
China and Korea, as England did from continental Europe; but these two island realms have brought
Asiatic and European civilization to their highest stage of development. Now the borrowers
are making return with generous hand. The islands are reacting upon the continents. Japanese
ideals are leavening the whole Orient from Manchuria to Ceylon. English civilization is the
standard of Europe. "The Russian in his snows is aiming to be English," says Emerson. "England
has inoculated all nations with her civilization, intelligence and tastes."[822]

[Sidenote: Ancient Cretan civilization.]

The recent discoveries in Crete show beyond doubt that the school of Aegean civilization was
in that island. Ancient Phoenicia, Argos, even Mycenæ and Tiryns put off their mask of age
and appear as rosy boys learning none too aptly of their great and elderly master. Borrowing
the seeds of culture from Asia and Egypt,[823] Crete nursed and tended them through the Neolithic
and Bronze Age, transformed them completely, much as scientific tillage has converted the cotton
tree into a low shrub. The precocity of this civilization is clear. At early as 3000 B.C. it
included an impressive style of architecture and a decorative art naturalistic and beautiful
in treatment as that of modern Japan.[824] From this date till the zenith of its development
in 1450 B.C., Crete became a great artistic manufacturing and distributing center for stone
carving, frescoes, pottery, delicate porcelain, metal work, and gems.[825] By 1800 B. C., seven
centuries before Phoenician writing is heard of, the island had matured a linear script out
of an earlier pictographic form.[826] This script, partly indigenous, partly borrowed from
Libya and Egypt, gives Crete the distinction of having invented the first system of writing
ever practised in Europe.[827]

Yet all this wealth of achievement bore the stamp of the indigenous; nearly every trace of
its remote Asiatic or Egyptian origin was obliterated. Here the isolation of an island environment
did thoroughly its work of differentiation, even on this thalassic isle which maintained constant
intercourse with Egypt, the Cyclades, the Troad and the Greek peninsula.[828] Minoan art has
a freshness, vivacity, and modernity that distinguishes it fundamentally from the formal products
of its neighbors. "Many of the favorite subjects, like the crocus and wild goat, are native
to the islands.... Even where a motive was borrowed from Egyptian life, it was treated in a
distinctive way," made tender, dramatic, vital. "In religion, as in art generally, Crete translated
its loans into indigenous terms, and contributed as much as it received."[829] The curator
of Egyptian antiquities in the New York Metropolitan Art Museum examined five hundred illustrations
of second and third millenium antiquities from Gournia and Vasiliki in Crete, made by Mrs.
Harriet Boyd Hawes during her superintendence of the excavations there, and pronounced them
distinctly un-Egyptian, except one vase, probably an importation.[830] All this was achieved
by a small insular segment of the Mediterranean race, in their Neolithic and Bronze Age, before
the advent of those northern conquerors who brought in an Aryan speech and the gift of iron.
It was in Crete, therefore, that Aegean civilization arose. On this island it had a long and
brilliant pre-Hellenic career, and thence it spread to the Greek mainland and other Aegean
shores.[831]

[Sidenote: Limitation of small area in insular history.]

A small cup soon overflows. Islands may not keep; they are forced to give, live by giving.
Here lies their historical significance. They dispense their gifts of culture in levying upon
the resources of other lands. But finally more often than not, the limitation of too small
a home area steps in to arrest the national development, which then fades and decays. To this
rule Great Britain and Japan are notable exceptions, owing partly to the unusual size of their
insular territory, partly to a highly advantageous location. Minoan Crete, in that gray antiquity
when Homeric history was still unborn, gave out of its abundance in art, government, laws and
maritime knowledge to the eastern Mediterranean world, till the springs of inspiration in its
own small land were exhausted, and its small population was unable to resist the flood of northern
invasion. Then the dispenser of gifts had to become an alms-taker from the younger, larger,
more resourceful Hellenic world.

The same story of early but short lived preëminence comes from other Aegean islands. Before
the rise of Athens, Samos under the great despot Polykrates became "the first of all cities,
Hellenic or barbaric," a center of Ionian manners, luxury, art, science and culture, the seat
of the first great thalassocracy or sea-power after that of Cretan Minos, a distributing point
for commerce and colonies.[832] Much the same history and distinction attached to the island
of Rhodes long before the first Olympiad,[833] and to the little island of Aegina.[834] If
we turn to the native races of America, we find that the Haida Indians of the Queen Charlotte
Archipelago are markedly superior to their Tlingit and Tsimshean kinsmen of the nearby Alaskan
and British Columbian coast. In their many and varied arts they have freely borrowed from their
neighbors; but they have developed these loans with such marvelous skill and independence that
they greatly surpass their early masters, and are accredited with possessing the creative genius
of all this coast.[835] Far away, on the remote southeastern outskirts of the island world
of the Pacific, a parallel is presented by little Easter Isle. Once it was densely populated
and completely tilled by a people who had achieved singular progress in agriculture, religion,
masonry, sculpture in stone and wood carving, even with obsidian tools, and who alone of all
the Polynesians had devised a form of hieroglyphical writing.[836] Easter Isle to-day shows
only abandoned fields, the silent monuments of its huge stone idols, and the shrunken remnant
of a deteriorated people.[837]

[Sidenote: Sources of ethnic stock of islands.]

Isolation and accessibility are recorded in the ethnic stock of every island. Like its flora
and fauna, its aboriginal population shows an affinity to that of the nearest mainland, and
this generally in proportion to geographical proximity. The long line of deposit islands, built
of the off-scourings of the land, and fringing the German and Netherland coast from Texel to
Wangeroog, is inhabited by the same Frisian folk which occupies the nearby shore. The people
of the Channel Isles, though long subject to England, belong to the Franco-Gallic stock and
the langue d'oïl linguistic family of northern France. The native Canary Islanders, though
giving no evidence of previous communication with any continental land at the time of their
discovery, could be traced, through their physical features, speech, customs and utensils,
to a remote origin in Egypt and the Berber regions of North Africa prior to the Mohammedan
conquest.[838] Sakhalin harbors to-day, besides the immigrant Russians, five different peoples--Ainos,
Gilyaks, Orochons, Tunguse, and Yakuts, all of them offshoots of tribes now or formerly found
on the Siberian mainland a few miles away.[839]

[Sidenote: Ethnic divergence with increased isolation.]

Where the isolation of the island is more pronounced, owing either to a broader and more dangerous
channel, as in the case of Madagascar and Formosa, or to the nautical incapacity of the neighboring
coast peoples, as in the case of Tasmania and the Canary Islands, the ethnic influence of the
mainland is weak, and the ethnic divergence of the insular population therefore more marked,
even to the point of total difference in race. But this is generally a case of survival of
a primitive stock in the protection of an unattractive island offering to a superior people
few allurements to conquest, as illustrated by the ethnic history of the Andaman and Kurile Isles.

[Sidenote: Differentiation of peoples and civilizations on islands.]

The sea forms the sharpest and broadest boundary; it makes in the island which it surrounds
the conditions for differentiation. Thus while an insular population is allied in race and
civilization to that of the nearest continent, it nevertheless differs from the same more than
the several sub-groups of its continental kindred differ from each other. In other words, isolation
makes ethnic and cultural divergence more marked on islands than on continents. The English
people, despite their close kinship and constant communication with the Teutonic peoples of
the European mainland, deviate from them more than any of these Germanic nations deviate from
each other. The Celts of Great Britain and Ireland are sharply distinguished from the whole
body of continental Celts in physical features, temperament, and cultural development. In Ireland
the primitive Catholic Church underwent a distinctive development. It was closely bound up
in the tribal organization of the Irish people, lacked the system, order and magnificence of
the Latinized Church, had its peculiar tonsure for monks, and its own date for celebrating
Easter for nearly three hundred years after the coming of St. Patrick.[840] The Japanese, in
their physical and mental characteristics, as in their whole national spirit, are more strikingly
differentiated from the Chinese than the agricultural Chinese from the nomadic Buriat shepherds
living east of Lake Baikal, though Chinese and Japanese are located much nearer together and
are in the same stage of civilization. The Eskimo, who form one of the most homogeneous stocks,
and display the greatest uniformity in language and cultural achievements of all the native
American groups, have only one differentiated offshoot, the Aleutian Islanders. These, under
the protection and isolation of their insular habitat from a very remote period, have developed
to a greater extent than their Eskimo brethren of the mainland. The difference is evident in
their language, religious ceremonies, and in details of their handiwork, such as embroidery
and grass-fiber weaving.[841] The Haidas of the Queen Charlotte Archipelago show such a divergence
in physique and culture from the related tribes of the mainland, that they have been accredited
with a distinct origin from the other coast Indians.[842]

[Sidenote: Differentiation of language in islands.]

The differentiating influence is conspicuous in the speech of island people, which tends to
form a distinct language or dialect or, in an archipelago, a group of dialects. The Channel
Isles, along with their distinctive breeds of cattle, has each its own variant of the langue
d'oïl.[843] According to Boccaccio's narrative of a Portuguese voyage to the Canaries in 1341,
the natives of one island could not understand those from another, so different were their
languages. The statement was repeated by a later authority in 1455 in regard to the inhabitants
of Lancerote, Fuerteventura, Gomera and Ferro, who had then been Christianized. A partial explanation
is supplied by the earlier visitors, who found the Canary Guanches with no means of communication
between the several islands except by swimming.[844] In the Visayan group of the Philippines,
inhabited exclusively by the civilized Visayan tribes except for the Negritos in the mountainous
interior, the people of Cebu can not understand their brethren in the adjacent islands; in
Cuyos and Calmanianes, dialects of the Visayan are spoken.[845] [See map page 147.]

The differentiation of language from the nearby continental speech may be due to a higher development,
especially on large islands affording very advantageous conditions, such as Great Britain and
Japan. Japanese speech has some affinity with the great Altaic linguistic family, but no close
resemblance to any sub-group.[846] It presents marked contrasts to the Chinese because it has
passed beyond the agglutinative stage of development, just as English has sloughed off more
of its inflectional forms than the continental Teutonic languages.

[Sidenote: Archaic forms of speech in islands.]

More often the difference is due to the survival of archaic forms of speech. This is especially
the case on very small or remote islands, whose limited area or extreme isolation or both factors
in conjunction present conditions for retardation. The speech of the Sardinians has a strong
resemblance to the ancient Latin, retains many inflectional forms now obsolete in the continental
Romance languages; but it has also been enlivened by an infusion of Catalan words, which came
in by the bridge of the Balearic Islands during the centuries of Spanish rule in Sardinia.[847]
Again, it is in Minorca and Majorca that this Catalan speech is found in its greatest purity
to-day. On its native soil in eastern Spain, especially in Barcelona, it is gradually succumbing
to the official Castilian, and probably in a few centuries will be found surviving only in
the protected environment of the Balearic Isles. Icelandic and the kindred dialects of the
Shetland and Faroe Islands had their origin in the classic Norse of the ninth century, and
are divergent forms of the speech of the Viking explorers.[848] The old Frisian tongue of Holland,
sister speech to Anglo-Saxon, survives to-day only in West Friesland beyond the great marshlands,
and in the long-drawn belt of coastal islands from Terschelling through Helgoland to Sylt,
as also on the neighboring shores of Schleswig-Holstein.[849] This region of linguistic survival,
insulated partially by the marshes or completely by the shallow "Wattenmeer" of this lowland
coast, reminds us of the protracted life of the archaic Lithuanian speech within a circle of
sea and swamp in Baltic Russia, and the survival of the Celtic tongue in peninsular Brittany,
Cornwall, Wales, in Ireland, and the Highlands and islands of Scotland.

[Sidenote: Unification of race in islands.]

Islanders are always coast dwellers with a limited hinterland. Hence their stock may be differentiated
from the mainland race in part for the same reason that all coastal folk in regions of maritime
development are differentiated from the people of the back country, namely, because contact
with the sea allows an intermittent influx of various foreign strains, which are gradually
assimilated. This occasional ethnic intercrossing can be proved in greater or less degree of
all island people. Here is accessibility operating against the underlying isolation of an island
habitat. The English to-day represent a mixture of Celts with various distinct Teutonic elements,
which had already diverged from one another in their separate habitats--Jutes, Angles, Saxons,
Danes, Norse and Norman French. The subsequent detachment of these immigrant stocks by the
English Channel and North Sea from their home people, and their arrival in necessarily small
bands enabled them to be readily assimilated, a process which was stimulated further by the
rapid increase of population, the intimate interactive life and unification of culture which
characterizes all restricted areas. Hence islands, like peninsulas, despite ethnic admixtures,
tend to show a surprising unification of race; they hold their people aloof from others and
hold them in a close embrace, shut them off and shut them in, tend to force the amalgamation
of race, culture and speech. Moreover, their relatively small area precludes effective segregation
within their own borders, except where a mountainous or jungle district affords a temporary
refuge for a displaced and antagonized tribe. Hence there arises a preponderance of the geographic
over the ethnic and linguistic factors in the historical equation.

The uniformity in cranial type prevailing all over the British Isles is amazing; it is greater
than in either Spain or Scandinavia. The cephalic indices range chiefly between 77 and 79,
a restricted variation as compared with the ten points which represents the usual range for
Central Europe, and the thirteen between the extremes of 75 and 88 found in France and Italy.[850]
Japan stands in much the same ethnic relation to Asia as Britain to Europe. She has absorbed
Aino, Mongolian, Malay and perhaps Polynesian elements, but by reason of her isolation has
been left free to digest these at her leisure, so that her population is fairly well assimilated,
though evidences of the old mixture can be discerned.[851] In Corsica and Sardinia a particularly
low cephalic index, dropping in some communes to 73, and a particularly short stature point
to a rare purity of the Mediterranean race,[852] and indicate the maintenance here of one ethnic
type, despite the intermittent intrusion of various less pure stocks from the Italian mainland,
Africa, Phoenicia, Arabia, and Spain. The location of the islands off the main routes of the
basin, their remoteness from shore, and the strong spirit of exclusiveness native to the people,[853]
bred doubtless from their isolation, have combined to reduce the amount of foreign intermixture.

[Sidenote: Remoter sources of island populations.]

Islands do not necessarily derive their population from the land that lies nearest to them.
A comparatively narrow strait may effectively isolate, if the opposite shore is inhabited by
a nautically inefficient race; whereas a wide stretch of ocean may fail to bar the immigration
of a seafaring people. Here we find a parallel to the imperfect isolation of oceanic islands
for life forms endowed with superior means of dispersal, such as marine birds, bats and insects.[854]
Iceland, though relatively near Greenland, was nevertheless peopled by far away Scandinavians.
These bold sailors planted their settlements even in Greenland nearly two centuries before
the Eskimo. England received the numerically dominant element of its population from across
the wide expanse of the North Sea, from the bare but seaman-breeding coasts of Germany, Denmark
and Norway, rather than from the nearer shores of Gaul. So the Madeira and Cape Verde Isles
had to wait for the coming of the nautical Portuguese to supply them with a population; and
only later, owing to the demand for slave labor, did they draw upon the human stock of nearby
Africa, but even then by means of Portuguese ships.

[Sidenote: Double sources.]

Owing to the power of navigation to bridge the intervening spaces of water and hence to emphasize
the accessibility rather than the isolation of these outlying fragments of land, we often find
islands facing two or three ways, as it were, tenanted on different sides by different races,
and this regardless of the width of the intervening seas, where the remote neighbors excel
in nautical skill. Formosa is divided between its wild Malay aborigines, found on the eastern,
mountainous side of the island, and Chinese settlers who cultivate the wide alluvial plain
on the western side.[855] Fukien Strait, though only eighty miles wide, sufficed to bar Formosa
to the land-loving northern Chinese till 1644, when the island became an asylum for refugees
from the Manchu invaders; but long before, the wider stretches of sea to the south and north
were mere passways for the sea-faring Malays, who were the first to people the island, and
the Japanese who planted considerable colonies on its northern coasts at the beginning of the
fifteenth century. [See map page 103.]

In a similar way Madagascar is divided between the Malayan Hovas, who occupy the eastern and
central part of the island, and the African Sakalavas who border the western coast. [See map
page 105.] This distribution of the ethnic elements corresponds to that of the insect life,
which is more African on the western side and more Indo-Malayan on the eastern.[856] Though
the population shows every physical type between Negro and Malayan, and ethnic diversity still
predominates over ethnic unity in this vast island, nevertheless the close intercourse of an
island habitat has even in Madagascar produced unification of language. Malayan speech of an
ancient form prevails everywhere, and though diversified into dialects, is everywhere so much
alike that all Malagasies can manage to understand one another.[857] The first inhabitants
were probably African; but the wide Mozambique Current (230 miles), with its strong southward
flow, was a serious barrier to fresh accessions from the mainland, especially as the nautical
development of the African tribes was always low. Meanwhile, however, successive relays of
sea-bred Malay-Polynesians crossed the broad stretch of the Indian Ocean, occupied the island,
and finally predominated over the original Negro stock.[858] Then in historic times came Arabs,
Swahilis, and East Indians to infuse an Asiatic element into the population of the coasts,
while Portuguese, English, Dutch, and French set up short-lived colonies on its shores. But
despite this intermittent foreign immigration, the fundamental isolation of Madagascar, combined
with its large area, enabled it to go its own slow historical gait, with a minimum of interference
from outside, till France in 1895 began to assume control of the island.

[Sidenote: Mixed population of small thalassic isles.]

Small thalassic islands, at an early date in their history, lose their ethnic unity and present
a highly mixed population. The reasons for this are two. The early maritime development characterizing
enclosed seas covers them with a network of marine routes, on which such islands serve as way
stations and mid-sea markets for the surrounding shores. Sailors and traders, colonists and
conquerors flock to them from every side. Such a nodal location on commercial routes insures
to islands a cosmopolitanism of race, as opposed to the ethnic differentiation and unity which
follows an outlying or oceanic situation. Here the factor of many-sided accessibility predominates
over isolation.

The prevailing small area of such thalassic islands, moreover, involves a population so small
that it is highly susceptible to the effects of intercrossing. Too restricted to absorb the
constant influx of foreign elements, the inhabitants tend to become a highly mixed, polyglot
breed. This they continue to be by the constant addition of foreign strains, so long as the
islands remain foci of trade or strategic points for the control of the marine highways. Diomede
Island in Bering Strait is the great market place of the polar tribes. Here Siberian Chukches
and Alaskan Eskimos make their exchanges. The Eskimo of St. Lawrence Island in Bering Sea,
from long intercourse, have adopted certain articles of dress, the boats and part of the vocabulary
of the Chukches.[859] Kilwauru, located on a sand-bank at the eastern end of Ceram, on the
border between Malayan and Papuan island districts, is the metropolis of native traders in
the Far East. Here gather the praus of the sea-faring Bugis bringing manufactured goods from
Singapore, and boats laden with the natural products of New Guinea.[860] The smaller these
island marts and the wider their circle of trade, the more mixed is their population. Thursday
Isle, an English coaling-station in Torres Strait, is a port of call for all steamers bound
from Europe or China for east Australian ports, besides being a center of a big local trade
in pearl shell and tripang. Hence its population of 526 souls comprises 270 Europeans of various
nationalities, including British, Germans, Scandinavians, Danes, Spanish, Portuguese, French
and Australians of European origin, besides 256 South Sea Islanders, Papuans, Africans, Philippines,
Chinese and other Asiatics.[861]

[Sidenote: Mixed population of island markets.]

Antiquity shows the same thing on a smaller scale, which grew, however, with the expansion
of the circle of commerce. Ancient Aegina in the Saronic Gulf received inhabitants from Crete,
Argos, Epidaurus in eastern Argolis and Athens; it became a central maritime market and its
people sea-traders, whose goods of a certain small kind became known as "Aegina wares."[862]
Delos at the crossroads of the Aegean was the center of longer radii. It became the inn for
travelers and merchants sailing from Asia and Egypt to Italy and Greece, and hence drew to
itself the trade and people of the whole Mediterranean basin.[863] The northwestern Indian
Ocean had a similar emporium in the ancient Dioscoridis, (Sokotra) which focused on itself
the trade between Arabia and eastern Africa.[864]

Ceylon's location made it in ancient and medieval times the common meeting place for Arab traders
from the west and Chinese merchants from the east; it thus became the Sicily of the semi-enclosed
North Indian Ocean. To-day its capital Colombo is "the Clapham Junction of the Eastern Seas,"
where passengers change steamers for China, India and Australia; a port of call for vessels
passing from the Straits of Malacca to the Persian Gulf or Mediterranean. Hence Ceylon's solid
nucleus of Singhalese and Tamil population, protected against absorption by the large area
of the island (25,365 square miles) is interspersed in the coastal districts with Arabs, Portuguese,
Eurasians dating from the old Portuguese occupation, and some ten thousand Europeans.[865]
The island of Gotland, located at the crossroads of the Baltic, was early adopted by the Hanseatic
merchants as their maritime base for the exploitation of Swedish, Finnish, and Russian trade.
Here were "peoples of divers tongues," so the old chronicles say, while the archeological finds
of Byzantine, Cufic, Roman, Anglo-Saxon and German coins testify to the wide circle of trade
whose radii focused at this nodal point of the Baltic.[866]

[Sidenote: Significant location of island way stations.]

The great importance of such islands has been due solely to their location. Their size and
resources are negligible quantities, but their natural position as way stations lent them preeminence
so long as navigation held to short "laps," and was restricted to enclosed seas. In the wide
expanse of the open ocean, similar sparsely scattered isles, like Ascension, St. Helena, the
Canaries and Hawaii, assumed importance in proportion to their scarcity. Though never the centers
of rife intercourse like Delos and Gotland, those lying conspicuously in the track of commerce
have succeeded in drawing to themselves the typical polyglot nodal population. Mauritius, located
at the southwestern entrance of the Indian Ocean about equally distant from Aden, Ceylon, Bombay,
Singapore and West Australia, and possessing the best harbor within many hundred miles, has
been held successively by Dutch, French and English, and to-day has a dense population of French,
English and Hindus.[867] A situation at the northeast entrance to the Caribbean Sea, keystone
of the vast arch formed by the Greater and Lesser Antilles, made the island of St. Thomas a
natural distributing point for this whole basin. Facing that much traveled Virgin Passage,
and forming the first objective of vessels bound from Europe to Panama, it became a great ship
rendezvous, and assumed strategic and commercial importance from early times. We find the same
political owners here as in Mauritius and in the same order--Dutch, French and English, though
in 1671 the island was occupied by the Danes, then from 1807 to 1815 by the English again,
and finally secured by the Danes.[868] The history of the Falkland Islands is a significant
reflection of their location on the south oceanic trade route, where they command the entrance
to the Magellan Straits and the passage round the Horn, Here on the outskirts of the world,
where they form the only break in the wide blank surface of the South Atlantic, they have been
coveted and held in turn by the chief European powers having colonies in the Orient,--by France,
Spain, England, Spain again, England again, by Argentine in 1820, and finally by England since
1833. Their possession was of especial advantage to Great Britain, which had no other base
in this part of the world intermediate between England and New Zealand.

[Sidenote: Thalassic islands as goals of expansion.]

Islands located in enclosed seas display the transitional character of border districts. They
are outposts of the surrounding shores, and become therefore the first objective of every expanding
movement, whether commercial or political, setting out from the adjacent coasts. Such islands
are swept by successive waves of conquest or colonization, and they carry in their people and
language evidences of the wrack left behind on their shores. This has been the history of Aegina,
Cyprus, Rhodes, Crete, Malta, Corfu, Sicily and Sardinia. That of Cyprus is typical. It was
the first island base for the ancient Tyrian fleets, and had its Phoenician settlements in
1045 B. C. From that time it was one of the many prizes in the Mediterranean grab-bag for the
surrounding nations. After the decline of Tyre, it was occupied by Greeks, then passed in turn
to Assyrians, Egyptians, Persians, Romans, Saracens, Byzantines, and in 1191 was seized by
the Crusaders. Later it fell to Egypt again; but in 1373 was taken by Genoa, in 1463 by Venice,
in 1571 by the Turks, and finally in 1878 was consigned to England.[869] All these successive
occupants have left their mark upon its people, speech, culture and architecture. In the same
way Sicily, located at the waist of the Mediterranean, has received the imprint of Greeks,
Carthagenians, Romans, Saracens, Normans, Spaniards and Italians.[870] Its architectural remains
bear the stamp of these successive occupants in every degree of purity and blending. The Sicilians
of to-day are a mixture of all these intrusive stocks and speak a form of Italian corrupted
by the infusion of Arabic words.[871] In 1071 when the Normans laid siege to Palermo, five
languages were spoken on the island,--Greek, Latin, Hebrew, Arabic and vulgar Sicilian, evidence
enough that it was the meeting ground of the nations of Europe, Asia and North Africa.[872]
Polyglot Malta to-day tells the same story of successive conquests, the same shuttlecock history.[873]
Almost every language of Europe is spoken here; but the native Maltese speech is a corrupt
form of Arabic mixed with modern Italian and ancient Phoenician words.[874] The whole island
is ethnographically a border hybrid of Europe and North Africa. The Channel Isles are to-day
the only spot in Europe where French and English survive side by side as official and commercial
languages. French and Italian meet on equal terms in Corsica. Chinese, Japanese and Malays
have traded and warred and treated on the debatable land of Formosa. The Aru, Ke, and other
small archipelagoes of the Banda Sea link together the pure Malay and the pure Papuan districts,
between which they lie.

From the border character of many islands there follow often far-reaching historical effects.
Like all border regions they are natural battlegrounds. Their historical episodes are small,
often slow and insidious in their movement, but large in their final content; for they are
prone to end in a sudden dramatic denouement that draws the startled gaze of all the neighboring
world. It was the destiny of Sicily to make and unmake the fortunes of ancient Carthage. Ceylon,
from the dawn of history, lured traders who enriched and conquerors who oppressed peninsular
India. The advance of Spain to the Canary Isles was the drowsy prologue to the brilliant drama
of American discovery. The island of Tsushima in the Korean Strait was seized by the forces
of Kublai Khan in 1280 as the base of their attack upon Japan;[875] and when in 1857 the Russian
bear tried to plant a foot on this island, Japan saw danger in the movement and ordered him
off.[876] Now we find Japan newly established in Sakhalin, the Elliot Islands and Formosa,
by means of which and her own archipelago she blankets the coast of Asia for twenty-two hundred
miles. This geographical situation may be productive of history.

[Sidenote: Political detachability of islands.]

Islands are detached areas physically and readily detached politically. Though insularity gives
them some measure of protection, their relatively small size and consequently small populations
make them easy victims for a conquering sea power, and easy to hold in subjection. The security
of an island habitat against aggression therefore, increases with its size, its efficiency
in naval warfare, and its degree of isolation, the last of which factors depends in turn upon
its location as thalassic or oceanic. Islands of enclosed seas, necessarily small and never
far from the close encircling lands, are engulfed by every tide of conquest emanating from
the nearby shores. Oesel and Dago have been held in succession by every Baltic power, by the
Teutonic Orders, Denmark, Sweden and Russia. Gotland has acknowledged allegiance to the Hanseatic
League, to Denmark and Sweden. Sardinia, occupying the center of the western Mediterranean,
has figured in a varied series of political combinations,--with ancient Carthage, Rome, the
Saracens of North Africa, with Sicily, Pisa, Aragon, Piedmont, and finally now with united
Italy.[877] To the land-bred Teutonic hordes which swept over western Europe in the early centuries
of our era, a narrow strip of sea was some protection for Sicily, Corsica, Sardinia, Malta
and the Balearic Isles. Hence we find these islands slow in succumbing to their non-maritime
conquerors, and readily regained by the energetic Justinian. Later they fell victim to the
sea-wise Saracens, but again gravitated back to their closer and more natural European connections.

[Sidenote: Insular weakness due to small area.]

More often the small area of an island facilitates its retention in bondage, when the large
and less isolated continental districts have thrown off an unwelcome yoke. Athens, with her
strong navy, found it an easy task to whip back into the ranks of the Delian Confederacy her
recalcitrant island subjects like Naxos, Samos and Thasos; but her mutinous cities in peninsular
Chalcidice and isthmian Megara, incited to revolt and aided by their neighbors,[878] were less
at her mercy. This principle was recognized by Thucydides,[879] and taken advantage of by the
Lacedæmonians during the great war for Spartan supremacy. England has been able to hold Ireland
in a vise. Of all her former French territory, she retains only the Channel Isles. Cuba and
Porto Rico remained in the crushing grasp of Spain sixty-four years after Mexico and the continental
states of Central and South America, by mutual help and encouragement, had secured independence.
The islands found that the isolation which confers protection from outside aggression meant
for them detachment from friendly sources of succor on the mainland. The desultory help of
filibuster expeditions, easily checked at the port of departure or landing, availed little
to supplement the inadequate forces of rebellion pent up on their relatively small areas. By
contrast, Mexico's larger area and population, continually stirred by American example and
encouragement, reinforced by American volunteers and even by United States army officers, found
revolt from 1812 to 1824 a comparatively easy task.

Cuba suffered from its geographic aloofness. So did little Crete, which submitted to Turkish
oppression sixty years after the continental Greeks had made good their claim to freedom. Nor
was this the first time that Cretan liberty had suffered from the detachment of an island environment.
Aristotle recognized the principle when he wrote: "The people of Crete have hitherto submitted
to the rule of the leading families as Cosmi, because the insular situation of Crete cuts off
the interference of strangers or foreigners which might stir up rebellion against the unjust
or partial government." And then he adds that this insular exclusion of outside incitement
long rendered the fidelity of the Perioeci or serf-like peasants of Crete a striking contrast
to the uneasy spirit of the Spartan Helots, who were constantly stirred to revolt by the free
farmers of Argos, Messinia and Arcadia.[880] Thus ancient like modern Crete missed those beneficient
stimuli which penetrate a land frontier, but are cut off by the absolute boundary of the sea.

[Sidenote: Island remains of broken empires.]

Island fragments of broken empires are found everywhere. They figure conspicuously in that
scattered location indicative of declining power. Little St. Pierre and Miquelon are the last
geographical evidences of France's former dominion in Canada. The English Bermudas and Bahamas
point back to the time when Great Britain held the long-drawn opposite coast. The British,
French, Dutch, Danish, as once even Swedish, holdings in the Lesser Antilles are island monuments
to lost continental domains, as recently were Cuba and Porto Rico to Spain's once vast American
empire. Of Portugal's widespread dominion in the Orient there remain to her only the island
fragments of Timor, Kambing, Macao and Diu, besides two coastal points on the western face
of peninsular India. All the former continental holdings of the Sultan of Zanzibar have been
absorbed into the neighboring German and British territories, and only the islands of Zanzibar
and Pemba remain to him by the temporary indulgence of his strong neighbors. The Sheik of the
Bahrein Islands originally held also the large kingdom of El Hasa on the nearby Persian Gulf
littoral of Arabia; but he lost this to the Turks in 1840, and now retains the Bahrein Islands
as the residuum of his former territories.[881]

[Sidenote: Security of such remnants merely passive.]

The insular remnants of empires are tolerated, because their small size, when unsupported by
important location, usually renders them innocuous; and their geographic isolation removes
them from international entanglements, unless some far-reaching anthropo-geographic readjustment
lends them a new strategic or commercial importance. The construction of the Suez Canal gave
England a motive for the acquisition of Cyprus in 1878, as a nearer base than Malta for the
protection of Port Said, just as the present Panama Canal project led the United States to
re-open negotiations for the purchase of the Danish Isles. One cannot get away from the impression
that the law of political detachability will operate again to make some new distribution of
the parti-colored political holdings in the Lesser Antilles. The small size of these islands,
and their thalassic location commanding approaches to a large region of only partially developed
resources and to the interoceanic passway across it, will pitch them into the dice-box on the
occasion of every naval war between their sovereign powers.

The shifting fate of political detachability becomes moderated in islands of the open ocean,
because of their remoteness from the colonizing or conquering movements emanating from the
continents. In contrast to the changing political connections of thalassic isles, consider
the calm or monotonous political history of outlying islands like the Shetland, Faroes, Iceland,
Canaries, Madeira, Cape Verde, Azores, St. Helena, Ascension and Hawaii. The Norse colony of
Iceland, as a republic, maintained loose connections with its mother country from 874 to 1264;
then for nearly six centuries it followed the political fate of Norway till 1814, when an oversight
left it in the hands of Denmark on the dissolution of the union of Denmark and Norway. The
Azores have known no history except that which came to them from Portugal; even their discovery
goes back to a Saracen navigator who, in 1147, sailed from the mouth of the Tagus a thousand
miles straight into the sunset.[882] For two hundred years thereafter extreme isolation kept
them outside the pale of history till their rediscovery by Prince Henry, the Navigator.

[Sidenote: Political autonomy of islands based upon area and location.]

Land-masses, as we have found, are independent by location or independent by size. Large islands,
especially where they occupy an outskirt location, may long succeed in maintaining an independent
national existence; but to render this permanent, they must supplement their area by the acquisition
of continental lands, according to the law of increasing territorial aggregates. Great Britain
and Japan, though ethnically and culturally appendages of the nearby mainland, were large enough,
aided by the dividing sea, to maintain political autonomy. They absorbed all the insular fragments
lying about them to extend their areas, and then each in turn entered upon a career of continental
expansion. To Japan this movement as a determined policy came late, only when she faced the
alternative of absorbing territory or being absorbed by all-devouring Russia. The isolation
of Madagascar resulted in only slight community of race with Africa, and combined with large
area, has kept the island to a great extent distinct from the political history of Africa.
The impulses which swept the eastern coast of the continent reached the outlying island with
abated force. Arab, Portuguese, Dutch and English only scratched its rim. The character of
its western coasts, of its vigorous Malayan population, and of the intervening Mozambique Current
rendered conquest difficult from the African shore. Its large size, with the promise of abundant
resources, offered a bait to conquest, yet put a barrier in its way. Hence we find that not
till 1895, when the partition of continental Africa was almost accomplished, did the French
conquest of Madagascar occur.

By contrast, the closely grouped East Indies, long coveted for their tropical products, suffered
a contagion of conquest. The large size of these islands, so far from granting them immunity,
only enabled the epidemic of Portuguese and Dutch dominion to pass from one to the other more
readily, and that even when the spice and pepper trade languished from a plethora of products.
But even here the size of the islands, plus the sub-equatorial climate which bars genuine white
colonization, has restricted the effective political dominion of Europeans to the coasts, and
thus favored the survival of the natives undisturbed in the interior, with all their primitive
institutions. The largest islands, like Borneo and Sumatra, have vast inland tracts still unexplored
and devoted to savagery, thus illustrating the contrast between center and periphery. When
Australia, the largest of all the Pacific island group, became an object of European expansion,
its temperate and sub-tropical location adapted it for white colonization, and the easy task
of conquering its weak and retarded native tribes encouraged its appropriation; but the natural
autonomy which belongs to large area and detached location asserted itself in the history of
British Australia. The island continent is now erected into a confederation of states, enjoying
virtual independence. In New Zealand, we find the recent colonists taking advantage of their
isolation to work out undisturbed certain unique social theories. Here, against a background
of arrested aboriginal development, another race evinces a radical spirit of progress; and
to these contrasted results equally the detached island environment has contributed its share.

[Sidenote: Historical effects of island isolation; primitive retardation.]

The historical development of island peoples bears always in greater or less degree the stamp
of isolation; but this isolation may lead to opposite cultural results. It may mean in one
case retardation, in another accelerated development. Its geographical advantages are distinctly
relative, increasing rapidly with a rising scale of civilization. Therefore in an island habitat
the race factor may operate with or against the geographic factor in producing a desirable
historical result. If the isolation is almost complete, the cultural status of the inhabitants
low, and therefore their need of stimulation from without very great, the lack of it will sink
them deeper in barbarism than their kinsmen on the mainland. The negroes of Africa, taken as
a whole, occupy a higher economic and cultural rank than the black races of Australia and Melanesia;
and for this difference one cause at least is to be found in the difference of their habitats.
The knowledge of iron, stock-raising, and many branches of agriculture were continental achievements,
which belonged to the great eastern land-mass and spread from Egypt over Africa even to the
Hottentot country; the lack of them among the Australians must be attributed to their insularity,
which barred them from this knowledge, just as the ignorance of iron and other metals among
the native Canary Islanders[883] can only be ascribed to a sea barrier fifty-two miles wide.
The scant acquaintance of the Balearic Islanders with iron in Roman days[884] points to insular
detachment. The lack of native domesticable animals in the Pacific archipelagoes illustrates
another limitation incident to the restricted fauna of islands, though this particular lack
also retarded the cultural development of primitive North America.

[Sidenote: Later stimulation of development.]

On the other hand, people who have already secured the fundamental elements of civilization
find the partial seclusion of an island environment favorable to their further progress, because
it permits their powers to unfold unhindered, protects them from the friction of border quarrels,
from the disturbance and desolation of invading armies, to which continental peoples are constantly
exposed. But even here the advantage lies in insulation but not in isolation,[885] in a location
like that of England or Japan, near enough to a continent to draw thence culture, commerce
and occasional new strains of blood, but detached by sea-girt boundaries broad enough to ward
off overwhelming aggressions. Such a location insures enough segregation for protection, but
also opportunity for universal contact over the vast commons of the sea.

[Sidenote: Excessive isolation.]

Excessive isolation may mean impoverishment in purse and progress even for an advanced race.
Ireland has long suffered from its outskirt location. It lies too much in the shadow of England,
and has been barred by the larger island from many warming rays of immigration, culture and
commerce that would have vitalized its national existence. The "round barrow" men of the Bronze
Age, the Romans, and the Normans never carried thither their respective contributions to civilization.
The Scandinavians infused into its population only inconsiderable strains of their vigorous
northern blood.[886] In consequence the Irish are to-day substantially the same race as in
Cæsar's time, except for the small, unassimilated group of antagonistic English and Lowland
Scotch, both Teutonic, in Ulster.[887] Barred by Great Britain from direct contact with the
Continent and all its stimulating influences, suffering from unfavorable conditions of climate
and topography, Ireland's political evolution progressed at a snail's pace. It tarried in the
tribal stage till after the English conquest, presenting a primitive social organization such
as existed nowhere in continental Europe. Property was communal till the time of the Tudors,
and all law was customary.[888] Over-protected by excessive isolation, it failed to learn the
salutary lesson of political co-operation and centralization for defense, such as Scotland
learned from England's aggressions, and England from her close continental neighbors. Great
Britain, meanwhile, intercepted the best that the Continent had to give, both blows and blessings,
and found an advantage in each. The steady prosecution of her continental wars demanded the
gradual erection of a standing army, which weakened the power of feudalism; and the voting
of funds for the conduct of these same wars put a whip into the hand of Parliament.

[Sidenote: The case of Iceland.]

The history of Iceland illustrates the advantage and subsequently the drawback of isolation.
The energetic spirits who, at the end of the ninth century, resented the centralization of
political power in Norway and escaped from the turmoil and oppression of the home country to
the remote asylum offered by Iceland, maintained there till 1262 the only absolutely free republic
in the world.[889] They had brought with them various seeds of culture and progress, which
grew and flowered richly in this peaceful soil. Iceland became the center of brilliant maritime
and colonial achievements, the home of a native literature which surpassed that of all its
contemporaries except Dante's Italy.[890] But after the decay of the Greenland colonies converted
Iceland from a focal into a remote terminal point, and after the progress of the world became
based upon complex and far-reaching commercial relations, the blight of extreme isolation settled
upon the island; peace became stagnation.

[Sidenote: Protection of an island environment.]

The concomitant of isolation is protection. Though this protection, if the result of extreme
isolation, may mean an early cessation of development, history shows that in the lower stages
of civilization, when the social organism is small and weak, and its germs of progress easily
blighted, islands offer the sheltered environment in which imported flowers of culture not
only survive but improve; in less protected fields they deteriorate or disappear. When learning
and Christianity had been almost wiped out on the continent of Europe by the ravages of barbarian
invasion between 450 and 800 A. D., in Ireland they grew and flourished. In the seventh and
eighth centuries, the high scholarship of the Irish monks and their enthusiastic love of learning
for its own sake drew to their schools students of the noblest rank from both England and France.[891]
It was from Irish teachers that the Picts of Scotland and the Angles of northern England received
their first lessons in Christianity. These fixed their mission stations again on islands, on
Iona off southwestern Scotland and on Lindisfarne or Holy Isle near the east coast of Northumbria.[892]
It was in the protected environment of the medieval Iceland that Scandinavian literature reached
its highest development.

Insular protection was undoubtedly a factor in the brilliant cultural development of Crete.
The progress of the early civilization from the late Stone Age through the Bronze Age was continuous;
it bears no trace of any strong outside influence or sudden transition, no evidence of disturbance
like an invasion or conquest by an alien people till 1200 B. C. when the latest stage of Minoan
art was crushed by barbarian incursion from the north.[893]

[Sidenote: Factor of protection in Ceylon and Japan.]

The early history of the Singhalese monarchy in Ceylon from 250 B. C. to 416 A. D., when even
the narrow moat of Palk Strait discouraged Tamil invasions from the mainland, shows the brilliant
development possible under even a slight degree of protection.[894] However, in the case of
these Ceylon Aryans, as in that of the Icelandic Norse, we must keep in mind the fact that
the bearers of this culture were picked men, as are early maritime colonists the world over.
The sea selects and then protects its island folk. But the seclusion of Ceylon was more favorable
to progress than the mainland of India, with its incessant political and religious upheavals.
Japan, in contrast to China's long list of invasions, shows the peace of an insular location.
She never suffered any overwhelming influx of alien races or any foreign conquest. The armada
sent by Kublai Khan in 1281 to subdue the islands paralleled the experience of the famous Spanish
fleet three centuries later in English waters. This is the only attempt to invade Japan that
recorded history shows.[895] In the original peopling of the island by Mongolian stock at the
cost of the Aino aborigines, there is evidence of two distinct and perhaps widely separated
immigrations from the mainland, one from Korea and another from more northern Asia. Thus Japan's
population contained two continental elements, which seem to have held themselves in the relation
of governing and governed class, much as Norman and Saxon did in England, while the Ainos lingered
in the geographical background of mountain fastness and outlying islands, as the primitive
Celts did in the British Isles.[896] In the case both of England and Japan, the island location
made the occupation by continental races a fitful, piecemeal process, not an inundation, because
only small parties could land from time to time. The result was gradual or partial amalgamation
of the various stocks, but nowhere annihilation.

[Sidenote: Character of the invaders as factor.]

But island location was not the sole factor in the equation. Similarity of race and relative
parity of civilization between the successive immigrants and the original population, as well
as the small numbers of the Invaders, made the struggle for the ownership of the island not
wholly one-sided, and was later favorable to amalgamation in England as in Japan; whereas very
small bands of far-coming Spaniards in the Canaries, Cuba, and Porto Rico resulted in the extinction
of the original inhabitants, by the process operating now in New Zealand and Australia. Prior
to the arrival of the Europeans in the Antilles, the conquest of these islands by South American
Caribs had resulted in race intermixture. These sea-marauders brought no women with them in
their small boats from the distant mainland, so they killed off the men and married the Arawak
women of the islands. Here again insular location plus similarity of race and culture produced
amalgamation, as opposed to extermination of the vanquished by over-sea invaders.

While the insular security of a primitive folk like the Tasmanians, Hawaiians and Malagasies
is only passive, that of a civilized people like the English and modern Japanese is active,
consciously utilized and reinforced. It is therefore more effective, and productive of more
varied political and cultural results. Such people can allow themselves extensive contact with
other nations, because they know it is in their power to control or check such contact at will.
Japan took refuge in its medieval period in a policy of seclusion suggested by its island habitat,[897]
relying on the passive protection of isolation. England, on the other hand, from the time of
King Alfred, built up a navy to resist invasion. The effect, after the political unification
of Great Britain, was a guarantee of protection against foreign attack, the concentration of
the national defenses in a navy,[898] the elimination of the standing army which despotic monarchs
might have used to crush the people, the consequent release of a large working force from military
service, and the application of these to the development of English Industry.[899]

[Sidenote: Islands as places of refuge.]

Islands, as naturally protected districts, are often sought places of refuge by the weak or
vanquished, and thus are drawn into the field of historical movement. We find this principle
operating also in the animal world. The fur seals of the North Pacific have fled from the American
coasts and found an asylum on the Pribiloff Islands of Bering Sea, where their concentration
and isolation have enabled them to become wards of the United States government, though this
result they did not foresee. The last Rhytina or Arctic sea-cow was found on an island in Bering
Strait.[900] So the Veneti of Northern Italy in the fifth century sought an asylum from the
desolating Huns and, a century later, from the Lombards, in the deposit islands at the head
of the Adriatic, and there found the geographic conditions for a brilliant commercial and cultural
development. Formosa got its first contingent of Chinese settlers in the thirteenth century
in refugees seeking a place of safety from Kublai Khan's armies; and its second in 1644 in
a Chinese chief and his followers who had refused to submit to the victorious Manchus. In 1637
Formosa was an asylum also for Japanese Christians, who escaped thither from the persecutions
attending the discovery of Jesuit conspiracies against the government.[901] The Azores, soon
after their rediscovery in 1431, were colonized largely by Flemish refugees,[902] just as Iceland
was peopled by rebellious Norwegians. To such voluntary exiles the dividing sea gives a peculiar
sense of security, this by a psychological law. Hence England owing to its insular location,
and also to its free government, has always been an asylum for the oppressed. The large body
of Huguenot refugees who sought her shores after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes added
a valuable element to her population.

[Sidenote: Convict islands.]

Islands find their populations enriched by the immigration of this select class who refuse
to acquiesce in oppression and injustice. But the geographic conditions which make islands
natural asylums make them also obvious places of detention for undesirable members of society;
these conditions render segregation complete, escape difficult or impossible, and control easy.
Hence we find that almost all the nations of the world owning islands have utilized them as
penal stations. From the gray dawn of history the Isles of the Blessed have been balanced by
the isles of the cursed. The radiant Garden of Hesperides has found its antithesis in the black
hell of Norfolk Isle, peopled by the "doubly condemned" criminals whom not even the depraved
convict citizens of Botany Bay could tolerate.[903] There is scarcely an island of the Mediterranean
without this sinister vein in its history. The archipelagoes of the ancient Aegean were constantly
receiving political exiles from continental Greece. Augustus Cæsar confined his degenerate
daughter Julia, the wife of Tiberius, on the island of Pandateria, one of the Ponza group;
and banished her paramour, Sempronius Gracchus, to Cercina in the Syrtis Minor off the African
coast.[904] Other Roman matrons of high degree but low morals and corrupt officials were exiled
to Corsica, Sardinia, Seriphos, Amorgos and other of the Cyclades.[905] To-day Italy has prisons
or penal stations in Ischia, the Ponza group, Procida, Nisida, Elba, Pantellaria, Lampedusa,
Ustica, and especially in the Lipari Isles, where the convicts are employed in mining sulphur,
alum and pumice from the volcanic cones.[906]

[Sidenote: Penal colonies on uninhabited islands.]

In modern times many remote oceanic islands have gotten their first or only white settlers
from this criminal class. Such are the citizens whom Chile has sent to Easter Isle twenty-five
hundred miles away out in the Pacific.[907] The inhabitants of Fernando Noronha, 125 miles
off the eastern point of South America, are convicts from Brazil, together with the warders
and troops who guard them.[908] In 1832 Ecuador began to use the uninhabited Gallapagos Islands,
lying 730 miles west of its coast, as a penal settlement.[909] The history of St. Helena is
typical. Its first inhabitants were some Portuguese deserters who in punishment were marooned
here from a Portuguese ship with a supply of seed and cattle. They proved industrious and had
cultivated a good deal of the land when four years later they were removed to Portugal. The
next inhabitants were a few slaves of both sexes who escaped from a slave ship that had stopped
here for wood and water. These multiplied, worked and restored the overgrown plantations of
their predecessors, till a Portuguese vessel about twenty years later was sent to exterminate
them. A few escaped to the woods, however, and were found there in prosperity in 1588.[910]
From 1815 till 1821 St. Helena was the prison of Napoleon.

Many of these penal islands seem chosen with a view to their severe or unhealthy climate, which
would forever repel free immigration and therefore render them useless for any other purpose.
This is true of the French Isles du Salut off the Guiana coast, of Spanish Fernando Po in the
Gulf of Guinea, of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, notoriously unhealthy, which receive the
criminals of British India,[911] and of numerous others. A bleak climate and unproductive soil
have added to the horror of exile life in Sakhalin, as they overshadowed existence in the Falkland
Islands, when these were a penal colony of Spain and later of Argentine.[912]

[Sidenote: Island prisons for political offenders.]

In the case of political offenders and incorrigibles, the island prison is as remote and inaccessible
as possible. The classic example is Napoleon's consignment to Elba and subsequently to St.
Helena, whence escape was impossible. Spain has sent its rebellious subjects, even university
professors of independent views, to Fernando Po in the Gulf of Guinea and Teneriffe in the
Canaries.[913] Russian political offenders of the most dangerous class are confined first in
the Schlüsselberg prison, situated on a small island in Lake Ladoga near the effluence of the
Neva. There they languish in solitary confinement or are transferred to far-off Sakhalin, whose
very name is taboo in St. Petersburg.[914] During our Civil War, one of the Dry Tortugas, lying
a hundred miles west of the southern point of Florida and at that time the most isolated island
belonging to the American government, was used as a prison for dangerous Confederates; and
here later three conspirators in the assassination of President Lincoln were incarcerated.[915]
Far away to the southeast, off the coast of South America, are the Isles du Salut, a French
penal station for criminals of the worst class. The Isle du Diable, ominous of name, lies farthest
out to sea. This was for five years the prison of Dreyfus. Its other inhabitants are lepers.
Isles of the cursed indeed!

[Sidenote: Islands as places of survival.]

What islands have they tend to hold, to segregate, secrete from meddling hands, preserve untouched
and unaltered. Owing to this power to protect, islands show a large percentage of rare archaic
forms of animal and plant life. The insular fauna of Australia, Tasmania, New Guinea and Madagascar
display a succession of strange, ancestral forms going back to the biological infancy of the
world. The Canaries in the Atlantic and Celebes In the Pacific are museums of living antiquities,
some of them dating probably from Miocene times.[916] Such survivals are found elsewhere only
in high mountains, whose inaccessible slopes also offer protection against excessive competition.
Hence some of the antiquated species of insular Celebes, Formosa, Japan and Hainon occur again
on the Asiatic mainland only in the Himalayas.[917]

For man, too, islands and their sister areas of isolation, mountains, are areas of survivals.
The shrinking remnants of that half-dwarf Negrito stock which may have formed the aboriginal
population of southern Asia are found to-day only in the mountains of peninsular India and
in island groups like the Andaman and the Philippines. But even in the Philippines, they are
confined either to the mountainous interiors of the larger islands, or to little coastal islets
like Polillo, Alabat, Jomalig, and others.[918] [See map page 147.] Yezo, Sakhalin and the
Kurile Isles harbor the last feeble remnants of the Ainos, a primitive people who formerly
occupied a long stretch of the Asiatic coast south of the Amur mouth. The protected environment
of these islands has postponed the doom of extinction toward which the Ainos are hastening.[919]
With insular conservatism they dress, live and seek their food on the sea to-day, just as depicted
in Japanese art and literature at the dawn of history.[920] [See map page 103.]

[Sidenote: Insular survivals of manners and customs.]

It is chiefly on islands of harsh climatic conditions, like Sakhalin, or of peculiarly restricted
resources and area, like the Andaman, or of remote, side-tracked location, like Iceland, Sardinia
and Cape Breton, that the stamp of the primitive or antiquated is strongest. Even when not
apparent in race stock, owing to the ubiquitous colonization of maritime peoples, it marks
the language and customs of even these late-coming occupants, because an island environment
asserts always some power to isolate. This is due not only to the encircling moat of sea, but
also to the restricted insular area, too small to attract to itself the great currents of human
activity which infuse cosmopolitan ideas and innovations, and too poor to buy the material
improvements which progress offers. If the tourist in Sicily finds the women of Taormina or
Girgenti spinning with a hand spindle, and the express trains moving only twelve miles an hour,
he can take these two facts as the product of a small, detached area, although this island
lies at the crossroads of the Mediterranean. Corsica and Sardinia, lying off the main routes
of travel in this basin, are two of the most primitive and isolated spots of Europe. Here the
old wooden plow of Roman days is still in common use as it is in Crete, and feudal institutions
of the Middle Ages still prevail to some extent[921],--a fact which recalls the long survival
of feudalism in Japan. The little Isle of Man, almost in sight of the English coast, has retained
an old Norse form of government. Here survives the primitive custom of orally proclaiming every
new law from the Tynwald Hill before it can take effect,[922] and the other ancient usage of
holding the court of justice on the same hill under the open sky. The Faroe Islands and Iceland
are museums of Norse antiquities. The stamp of isolation and therefore conservatism is most
marked in the remoter, northern islands. Surnames are rare in Iceland, and such as exist are
mostly of foreign origin. In their place, Christian names followed by the patronymic prevail;
but in the Faroes, these patronymics have in a great many cases become recognized as surnames.
So again, while the Faroese women still use a rude spinning-wheel introduced from Scotland
in 1671, in Iceland this spinning-wheel was still an innovation in 1800, and even to-day competes
with spindles. Hand-querns for grinding wheat, stone hammers for pounding fish and roots, the
wooden weighing-beam of the ancient Northmen, and quaint marriage customs give the final touch
of aloofness and antiquity to life on these remote islands.[923]

[Sidenote: Effects of small area in islands.]

As all island life bears more or less the mark of isolation, so it betrays the narrow area
that has served at its base. Though islands show a wide variation in size from the 301,000
square miles (771,900 square kilometers) of New Guinea or the 291,000 square miles (745,950
square kilometers) of Borneo to the private estates like the Scilly Isles, Gardiner and Shelter
islands off Long Island, or those small, sea-fenced pastures for sheep and goats near the New
England coast and in the Aegean, yet small islands predominate; the large ones are very few.
Islands comprise a scant seven per cent. of the total land area of the earth, and their number
is very great,--nine hundred, for instance, in the Philippine group alone. Therefore small
area is a conspicuous feature of islands generally. It produces in island people all those
effects which are characteristic of small, naturally defined areas, especially early or precocious
social, political and cultural development. The value of islands in this respect belongs to
the youth of the world, as seen in the ancient Mediterranean, or in the adolescence of modern
primitive races; it declines as the limitations rather than the advantages of restricted territory
preponderate in later historical development.

[Sidenote: Political dominion of small islands.]

This early maturity, combined with the power to expend the concentrated national or tribal
forces in any given direction, often results in the domination of a very small island over
a large group. In the Society Islands, Cook found little Balabola ruling over Ulietea (Raitea)
and Otaha, the former of these alone being over twice the size of Balabola, whose name commanded
respect as far as Tahiti.[924] The Fiji Archipelago was ruled in pre-Christian days by the
little islet of Mbau, scarcely a mile long, which lies like a pebble beside massive Viti Levu.
It was the chief center of political power and its supremacy was owned by nearly all the group.
The next important political center was Rewa, no larger than Mbau, which had for its subject
big Mbengga.[925] In the same way, the Solomon group was ruled by Mongusaie and Simbo, just
as tiny New Lauenberg lorded it over the larger islands of the Bismarck Archipelago.[926] When
the Dutch in 1613 undertook the conquest of the coveted Spice Isles, they found there two rival
sultans seated in the two minute islets of Ternate and Tidore off the west coast of Gilolo.
Their collective possessions, which the Dutch took, comprised all the Moluccas, the Ke and
Banda groups, the whole of northwestern New Guinea, and Mindanao of the Philippines.[927]

It was no unusual thing for classic Aegean isles to control and exploit goodly stretches of
the nearest coast, or to exercise dominion over other islands. Aristotle tells us that Crete's
location across the southern end of the Aegean Sea confirmed to it by nature the early naval
empire of the Hellenic world. Minos conquered some of the islands, colonized others,[928] and,
according to the story of Theseus and the Minotaur, laid Athens under tribute; but his suppression
of piracy in these waters and his conspicuous leadership in the art of navigation point to
a yet more significant supremacy. So insular Venice ruled and exploited large dependencies.
The island of Zealand, strategically located at the entrance to the Baltic, has been the heart
and head and strong right arm of the Danish dominion, through all its long history of fluctuating
boundaries. England's insularity has been the strongest single factor in the growth of her
vast colonial empire and in the maintenance of its loyal allegiance and solidarity. The widely
strewn plantation of her colonies is the result of that teeming island seed-bed at home; while
the very smallness of the mother country is the guarantee of its supremacy over its dependencies,
because it is too small either to oppress them or to get along without them. Now an Asiatic
variant of English history is promised us by growing Japan.

[Sidenote: Economic limitations of their small area.]

Though political supremacy is possible even to an island of insignificant size, both the advantages
arid the grave disadvantages of small area are constantly asserting themselves. Some developments
peculiar to large territory are here eliminated at the start. For instance, robbery and brigandage,
which were so long a scourge in peninsular Greece, were unheard of on the small Aegean islands.
Sheep-raising was at an early date safer in England than on the Continent, because wolves were
earlier exterminated there. Bio-geography shows an increasing impoverishment in the flora and
fauna, of small islands with distance from the mainland. In the Pacific Ocean, this progressive
impoverishment from west to east has had great influence upon human life in the islands. In
Polynesia, therefore, all influences of the chase and of pastoral life are wanting, while in
Melanesia, with its larger islands and larger number of land animals, hunting still plays an
important part, and is the chief source of subsistence for many New Guinea villages.[929] Therefore
a corresponding decay of projectile weapons is to be traced west to east, and is conspicuous
in those crumbs of land constituting Polynesia and Micronesia. The limit of the bow and arrow
includes the northeastern portion of the Philippine group, cuts through the Malay Archipelago
so as to include the Moluccas and Flores, includes Melanesia as far as Tonga or the Friendly
Isles, but excludes Micronesia, Polynesia and Australia, Even in Melanesia, however, bows and
arrows are not universal; they are lacking in peripheral islands like New Caledonia and New
Ireland.[930]

The restriction of trees, also, with the exception of the coco-palm and pandanus, has had its
effect upon boat making. This general impoverishment is unmistakably reflected in the whole
civilization of the smaller islands of Polynesia and Micronesia, especially in the Paumota
and Pelew groups. In the countless coralline islands which strew the Pacific, another restricting
factor is found in their monotonous geological formation. Owing to the lack of hard stone,
especially of flint, native utensils and weapons have to be fashioned out of wood, bones, shells,
and sharks' teeth.[931]

[Sidenote: Poverty of alluvial lowlands in islands.]

Nor does the geographical limitation end here. Islands have proportionately a scanter allowance
of fertile alluvial lowlands than have continents. This follows from their geological history,
except in the case of those low deposit islands built up from the waste of the land. Most islands
are summits of submerged mountain ranges, like Corsica and Sardinia, the Aegean archipelagoes,
the Greater Antilles, Vancouver, and the countless fiord groups; or they are single or composite
volcanic cones, like the Canaries, Azores, Lipari, Kurile, Fiji, Ascension, St. Helena and
the Lesser Antilles; or they are a combination of highland subsidence and volcanic out-thrust,
like Japan, the Philippines, the long Sunda chain and Iceland. Both geologic histories involve
high reliefs, steep slopes, a deep surrounding sea, and hence rarely a shallow continental
shelf for the accumulation of broad alluvial lowlands. Among the Aegean Isles only Naxos has
a flood plain; all the rest have steep coasts, with few sand or gravel beaches, and only small
deposit plains at the head of deep and precipitous embayments. Japan's area of arable soil
is to-day only 15.7 per cent. of its total surface, even after the gentler slopes of its mountains
have been terraced up two thousand feet. Some authorities put the figure lower, at 10 and 12
per cent.

[Sidenote: Dense populations of islands.]

Yet in spite of limited area and this paucity of local resources, islands constantly surprise
us by their relatively dense populations. More often than not they show a density exceeding
that of the nearest mainland having the same zonal location, often the same geologic structure
and soil. Along with other small, naturally defined areas, they tend to a closer packing of
the population. Yet side by side with this relative over-population, we find other islands
uninhabited or tenanted only by sheep, goats and cattle.

In the wide Pacific world comprising Australia and Oceanica, islands take up fifteen per cent.
of the total land area, but they contain forty-four per cent. of the population.[932] The insular
empire of Japan, despite the paucity of its arable soil, has a density of population nearly
twice that of China, nearly three times that of Korea, and exceeding that of any political
subdivision of continental Asia; but Japan, in turn, is surpassed in congestion only by Java,
with a density of 587 to the square mile,[933] which almost equals that of Belgium (643) and
England (600). Great Britain has a density of population (453 to the square mile) only exceeded
in continental Europe by that of Belgium, but surpassed nearly threefold by that of the little
Channel Isles, which amounts to 1254 to the square mile.[934] If the average density of the
United Kingdom is greatly diminished in Ireland, just as Italy's is in Sardinia and France's
in Corsica, this fact is due primarily to a side-tracked or overshadowed location and adverse
topography, combined with misgovernment.

If we compare countries which are partly insular, partly continental, the same truth emerges.
The kingdom of Greece has fifteen per cent of its territory in islands. Here again population
reaches its greatest compactness in Corfu and Zante, which are nearly thrice as thickly inhabited
as the rest of Greece.[935] Similarly the islands which constitute so large a part of Denmark
have an average density of 269 to the square mile as opposed to the 112 of Jutland. The figures
rise to 215 to the square mile in the Danish West Indies, but drop low in the bleak, subarctic
insular dependencies of Greenland, Iceland and the Faroes. Portugal's density is tripled in
the Madeiras[936] and doubled in the Azores,[937] but drops in the badly placed Cape Verde
Island, exposed to tropical heat and the desiccating tradewinds blowing off the Sahara. Spain's
average rises twenty-five per cent. in the Canary Islands, which she has colonized, and France's
nearly doubles in the French West Indies. The British West Indies, also, with the exception
of the broken coral bank constituting the Bahamas, show a similar surprising density of population,
which in Bermuda and Barbadoes surpasses that of England, and approximates the teeming human
life of the Channel Isles.

[Sidenote: Density of population in Polynesia.]

This general tendency toward a close packing of the population in the smaller areas of land
comes out just as distinctly in islands inhabited by natural peoples in the lower stages of
development. Despite the retarded economic methods peculiar to savagery and barbarism, the
Polynesian islands, for instance, often show a density of population equal to that of Spain
and Greece (100 to the square mile) and exceeding that of European Turkey and Russia. "Over
the whole extent of the South Sea," says Robert Louis Stevenson, "from one tropic to another,
we find traces of a bygone state of over-population, when the resources of even a tropical
soil were taxed, and even the improvident Polynesian trembled for the future."[938] He calls
the Gilbert atolls "warrens of men."[939] One of them, Drummond's Island, with, an area of
about twenty square miles, contained a population of 10,000 in 1840, and all the atolls were
densely populated.[940] To-day they count 35,000 inhabitants in less than 200 square miles.
The neighboring Marshall group has 15,000 on its 158 square miles of area. The Caroline and
Pelew archipelagoes show a density of 69 to the square mile, the Tonga or Friendly group harbor
about 60 and the French holdings of Futuma and Wallis (or Uea) the same.[941] So the Bismarck
Archipelago, Solomon, Hawaiian, Samoan and Marianne islands have to-day populations by no means
sparse, despite the blight that everywhere follows the contact of superior with primitive peoples.

[Sidenote: Various causes of this density.]

In all these cases, if economic status be taken into account, we have a density bordering on
congestion; but the situation assumes a new aspect if we realize that the crowded inhabitants
of small islands often have the run of the coco plantations and fishing grounds of an entire
archipelago. The smaller, less desirable islands are retained as fish and coco-palm preserves
to be visited only periodically. Of a low, cramped, monotonous coral group, often only the
largest and most productive is inhabited,[942] but that contains a population surprising in
view of the small base, restricted resources and low cultural status of its inhabitants. The
population of the wide-strewn Paumota atolls was estimated as about 10,000 in 1840. Of these
fully one-half lived on Anaa or Chain Island, and one-fourth on Gambier, but they levied on
the resources of the other islands for supplies.[943] The Tonga Islands at the same time were
estimated to have 20,000 inhabitants, about half of whom were concentrated on Tongatabu, while
Hapai and Varao held about 4,000 each.[944]

[Sidenote: Crowded and vacant islands.]

This is one of the sharp contrasts in island life,--here density akin to congestion, there
a few miles away a deserted reef or cone rising from the sea, tenanted only by sheep or goats
or marine birds, its solitude broken only by the occasional crunching of a boat's keel upon
its beach, as some visitant from a neighboring isle comes to shear wool, gather coco-nuts,
catch birds or collect their eggs. All the 500 inhabitants of the Westman Isles off the southern
coast of Iceland live in one village on Heimey, and support themselves almost entirely by fishing
and fowling birds on the wild crags of the archipelago.[945] An oceanic climate, free contact
with the Gulf Stream, and remoteness from the widespread ice fields of Iceland give them an
advantage over the vast island to the north. Only twenty-seven of the ninety islands composing
the Orkney group are inhabited, and about forty smaller ones afford natural meadows for sheep
on their old red sandstone soil;[946] but Pomona, the largest Orkney has 17,000 inhabitants
on its 207 square miles of territory or 85 to the square mile. The Shetlands tell the same
story--29 out of 100 islands inhabited, some of the holms or smaller islets serving as pastures
for the sturdy ponies and diminutive cattle, and Mainland, the largest of the group, showing
58 inhabitants to the square mile. This is a density far greater than is reached in the nearby
regions of Scotland, where the county of Sutherland can boast only 13 to the square mile, and
Invernesshire 20. Here again insularity and contracted area do their work of compressing population.

The causes of this insular density of population are not far to seek. Islands can always rely
on the double larder of land and sea. They are moreover prone to focus in themselves the fishing
industry of a large continental area, owing to their ample contact with the sea. Shetland is
now the chief seat of the Scotch herring fishery, a fact which contributes to its comparatively
dense population. The concentration of the French export trade of Newfoundland fish in little
St. Pierre and Miquelon accounts for the relatively teeming population (70 to the square mile)
and the wealth of those scraps of islands. So the Lofoden Islands of Norway, like Iceland,
Newfoundland and Sakhalin, balance a generous sea against an ungenerous soil, and thus support
a population otherwise impossible.

[Sidenote: Oceanic climate as factor.]

For these far northern islands, the moderating effect of an oceanic climate has been a factor
in making them relatively populous, just as it is on tropical isles by mitigating heat and
drought. The prosperity and populousness of the Bermuda Islands are to be explained largely
by the mild, equable climate which permits the raising of early vegetables and flowers for
English and American markets. Like climatic conditions and a like industry account for the
2,000 souls living on the inhabited islands of the Scilly group. Here intensive horticulture
supports a large force of workmen and yields a profit to the lord proprietor. Syros in the
Cyclades fattens on its early spring vegetable trade with Athens and Constantinople.[947]

In the Mediterranean lands, where drought and excessive heat during the growing season offer
adverse conditions for agriculture, the small islands, especially those of fertile volcanic
soil, show the greatest productivity and hence marked density of population. Though the rainfall
may be slight, except where a volcanic peak rises to condense moisture, heavy dews and the
thick mists of spring quicken vegetation. This is the case in Malta, which boasts a population
of 2,000 to the square mile, exclusive of the English garrison.[948] Little Limosa and Pantellaria,
the merest fragments of land out in the mid-channel of the Mediterranean, have a population
of 200 to the square mile.[949] The Lipari group north of Sicily average nearly 400 on every
square mile of their fertile soil;[950] but this average rises in Salina to 500, and in Lipari
itself, as also in Ponza of the Pontine group, to nearly 1300. Here fertile volcanic slopes
of highly cultivated land lift vineyards, orchards of figs, and plantations of currants to
the sunny air. But nearby Alicuri, almost uncultivated, has a sparse population of some five
hundred shepherds and fishermen. Panaria and Filicuri are in about the same plight. Here again
we find those sharp island contrasts.

[Sidenote: Relation of density to area.]

The insular region of the Indian Ocean, which is inhabited by peoples quite different in race
and cultural status from those of the Mediterranean, yet again demonstrates the power of islands
to attract, preserve, multiply and concentrate population. This is especially true of the smaller
islands, which in every case show a density of population many times that of the neighboring
mainland of Africa. Only vast Madagascar, continental in size, repeats the sparsity of the
continent. An oceanic climate increases the humidity of the islands as compared with the mainland
lying in the same desiccating tradewind belt. Moreover their small area has enabled them to
be permeated by incoming Arab, English, and French influences, which have raised their status
of civilization and therewith the average density of population. This culminates in English
Mauritius, which shows 540 inhabitants to the square mile, occupied in the production of sugar,
molasses, rum, vanilla, aloes, and copra. In Zanzibar this density is 220 to the square mile;
in Reunion 230; in Mayotte, the Comores and Seychelles, the average varies from 100 to 145
to the square mile, though Mahe in the Seychelles group has one town of 20,000 inhabitants.[951]

In the Malay Archipelago, an oceanic climate and tropical location have combined to stimulate
fertility to the greatest extent; but this local wealth has been exploited in the highest degree
in the smaller islands having relatively the longest coastline and amplest contact with the
sea. The great continent-like areas of Borneo, New Guinea and Sumatra show a correspondingly
sparse population; Java, smaller than the smallest of these and coated with mud from its fertilizing
volcanoes, supports 587 inhabitants to the square mile; but this exceptional average is due
to rare local productivity. Java's little neighbors to the east, Bali and Lombok, each with
an area of only about 2100 square miles, have a density respectively of 338 and 195 to the
square mile. This density rises suddenly in small Amboina (area 264 square miles), the isle
of the famous clove monopoly, to 1000,[952] drops in the other Moluccas, where Papuan influences
are strong, even to 20, but rises again in the pure Malayan Philippines to 69. In the Philippines
a distinct connection is to be traced between the density of population and smallness of area.
The explanation lies in the attraction of the coast for the sea-faring Malay race, and the
mathematical law of increase of shoreline with decrease of insular area. Since 65 per cent.
of the whole Philippine population inhabits coastal municipalities, it is not surprising that
the 73 islands from ten to a hundred square miles in area count 127 inhabitants to the square
mile, and those of less than ten square miles, of which there are nearly a thousand, have a
density of 238.[953]

This same insular density, supported by fertility, fisheries and trade, appears again in the
West Indies, and also the contrast in density between large and small islands down to a certain
limit of diminutiveness. The Greater Antilles increase in density from Cuba through smaller
Haiti and Jamaica down to little Porto Rico, which boasts 264 inhabitants to the square mile.
In the smaller area of the Danish Indies and Guadeloupe about this same density (215 and 274)
reappears; but it mounts to 470 in Martinique and to 1160 in Barbadoes.[954]

[Sidenote: Island resorts.]

Climate advantages often encourage density of population on islands, by attracting to them
visitors who make a local demand for the fruits of the soil and thereby swell the income of
the islands. For instance, about the densely populated region of the Gulf of Naples, Procida
has 14,000 inhabitants on its one and a half square miles of area, while fertile Ischia and
Capri have 1400 to the square mile. Here a rich volcanic soil, peaks which attract rain by
their altitude and visitors by their beauty, and a mild oceanic climate delightful in winter
as in summer, all contribute to density of population. Sicily, Malta and Corfu also gain in
the same way in winter. The Isle of Man owes some of its recent increase of population, now
238 to the square mile, to the fact that it has become the summer playground for the numerous
factory workers of Lancashire in England.

[Sidenote: Density of population affected by focal location for trade.]

Sometimes climatic advantages are reinforced by a favorable focal point, which brings the profits
of trade to supplement those of agriculture. This factor of distributing and exporting center
has undoubtedly contributed to the prosperity and population of Reunion, Mahe, Mauritius and
Zanzibar, as it did formerly to that of ancient Rhodes and modern St. Thomas at the angle of
the Antilles. Barbadoes, by reason of its outpost location to the east of the Windward Isles,
is the first to catch incoming vessels from England, and is therefore a focus of steamship
lines and a distributing point for the southern archipelago, so that we find here the greatest
density of any island in the West Indies.[955] The 9405 inhabitants of Charlotte Amalie on
St. Thomas and the 15,000 of Willemsted on Curaçao give these also a characteristic insular
density. Samos, blessed with good soil, an excellent position on Aegean maritime routes, and
virtual autonomy, supports a population of 300 to the square mile.[956]

Focal location alone can often achieve this density. Syros, one of the smallest and by nature
the most barren of the Cyclades, though well tilled is the great commercial and shipping center
of the Aegean, and has in Hermupolis with its 17,700 population by far the largest town of
the archipelago.[957] This development has come since Greece achieved its independence. It
reminds us of the distinction and doubtless also population that belonged to Delos in ancient
days. Advantageous commercial location and density of population characterize Kilwauru and
Singapore at the east and west extremities of the Malay Archipelago. The Bahrein Islands, which
England has acquired in the Persian Gulf, serve as an emporium of trade with eastern Arabia
and have a local wealth in their pearl fisheries. These facts account for the 68,000 inhabitants
dwelling on their 240 square miles (600 square kilometers) of sterile surface.[958]

[Sidenote: Overflow of island population to the mainland.]

The concentration of population in these favored spots of land with inelastic boundaries, and
the tendency of that population to increase under the stimulating, interactive life make the
restriction of area soon felt. For this reason, so many colonies which are started on inshore
islets from motives of protection have to be transferred to the mainland to insure a food supply.
A settlement of Huguenots, made in 1535 on an island in the harbor of Rio Janeiro, found its
base too small for cultivation, but feared the attack of the hostile Indians and Portuguese
on the mainland. After three years of a struggling existence, it fell a prey to the Portuguese,[959]
De Monts' short-lived colony on an island in the mouth of the St. Croix River in 1604 had an
excellent site for defence, but was cut off by the drifting ice in winter from mainland supplies
of wood, water and game, while no cultivation was possible in the sandy soil.[960]

Such sites suffice for mere trading posts, but are inadequate for the larger social group of
a real colony. The early Greek colonists, with their predilection for insular locations, recognized
this limitation and offset it by the occupation of a strip of the nearest mainland, cultivated
and defended by fortified posts, as an adjunct to the support of the islands. Such a subsidiary
coastal hem was called a Paraea. The ancient Greek colonies on the islands of Thasos and Samothrace
each possessed such a Paraea.[961] The Aeolian inhabitants of Tenedos held a strip of the opposite
Troad coast north of Cape Lekton, while those of Lesbos appropriated the south coast of the
Troad.[962] In the same way Tarentum and Syracuse, begun on inshore islands, soon overflowed
on to the mainland. Sometimes the island site is abandoned altogether and the colony transferred
to the mainland. The ancient Greek colony of Cyrene had an initial existence on the island
of Platea just off the Libyan coast, but, not flourishing there, was moved after an interval
of several years to the African mainland, where "the sky was perforated" by the mountains of
Barca.[963] De Monts' colony was removed from its island to Port Royal in Nova Scotia.

[Sidenote: Precocious development of island agriculture.]

Where an island offers in its climate and soil conditions favorable to agriculture, tillage
begins early to assume an intensive, scientific character, to supply the increasing demand
for food. The land, fixed in the amount of area, must be made elastic in its productivity by
the application of intelligence and industry. Hence in island habitats, an early development
of agriculture, accompanied by a parallel skill in exploiting the food resources of the sea,
is a prevailing feature. In Oceanica, agriculture is everywhere indigenous, but shows greatest
progress in islands like Tonga and Fiji, where climate and soil are neither lavish nor niggardly
in their gifts, but yield a due return for the labor of tillage. The Society[964] and Samoan
Islands, where nature has been more prodigal, rank lower in agriculture, though George Forster
found in Tahiti a relatively high degree of cultivation.[965] The small, rocky, coralline Paumotas
rank lower still, but even here plantains, sugar-cane, sweet potatoes, yams, taro and solanum
are raised. The crowded atolls of the Gilbert group show pains-taking tillage. Here we find
coco-palms with their roots fertilized with powdered pumice, and taro cultivated in trenches
excavated for the purpose and located near the lagoons, so that the water may percolate through
the coral sand to the thirsty roots.[966] To lonely Easter Isle nature has applied a relentless
lash. At the time of Cook's visit it was woodless and boatless except for one rickety canoe,
and therefore was almost excluded from the food supplies of the sea. Hence its destitute natives,
by means of careful and often ingenious tillage, made its parched and rocky slopes support
excellent plantations of bananas and sugar-cane.[967]

The islands of Melanesia show generally fenced fields, terrace farming on mountain sides, irrigation
canals, fertilized soils, well trimmed shade trees and beautiful flower gardens,[968] proof
that the cultivation of the ground has advanced to the aesthetic stage, as it has in insular
Japan. In Tonga the coco-palm plantations are weeded and manured. Here, after a devastating
war, the victorious chief devotes his attention to the cultivation of the land, which soon
assumes a beautiful and flourishing appearance.[969] In Tongatabu, which is described by the
early visitors as one big garden, Cook found officials appointed to inspect all produce of
the island and to enforce the cultivation of a certain quota of land by each householder.[970]
Here agriculture is a national concern.

[Sidenote: Melanesian agriculture.]

In the minute land fragments which constitute Micronesia, fishing is the chief source of subsistence;
agriculture, especially for the all important taro, is limited to the larger islands like the
Pelews. In the vast islands of western Melanesia, agriculture is on the whole less advanced.
New Guinea, where the chase yields support to many villages, has large sections still a wilderness,
though some parts are cultivated like a garden. In the smaller Melanesian islands, such as
New Hebrides, New Britain and the Solomon group, we find extensive plantations laid out on
irrigated terraces, In New Hebrides and the Banks Islands every single village has its flowers
and aromatic herbs.[971] But it is in Fiji that native island agriculture seems to culminate.
Here a race of dark, frizzly haired savages, addicted to cannibalism, have in the art of tillage
taken a spurt forward in civilization, till in this respect they stand abreast of the average
European. The German asparagus bed is not cultivated more carefully than the yam plants of
Fiji; these also are grown in mounds made of soil which has been previously pulverized by hand.
The variety and excellence of their vegetable products are amazing, and find their reflection
in an elaborate national cuisine, strangely at variance with the otherwise savage life.[972]

West of Melanesia, the Malay Archipelago shows a high average of tillage. The inhabitants of
Java, Madura, Bali, Lombok and Sumbawa are skilled agriculturists and employ an elaborate system
of irrigation,[973] but the natives of Timor, on the other hand, have made little progress.
In the Philippines a rich and varied agriculture has been the chief source of wealth since
the Spanish conquest early in the sixteenth century, proving a native aptitude which began
to develop long before.[974]

[Sidenote: Intensive tillage.]

The dense population of the Mediterranean islands is the concomitant of an advanced agriculture.
The connection between elaborate tillage and scant insular area is indicated in the earliest
history of classic Aegina. The inhabitants of this island were called Myrmidons, Strabo tells
us, because by digging like ants they covered the rocks with earth to cultivate all the ground;
and in order to economize the soil for this purpose, lived in excavations under ground and
abstained from the use of bricks.[975] To-day, terraced slopes, irrigation, hand-made soils,
hoe and spade tillage, rotation of crops, and a rich variety of field and garden products characterize
the economic history of most Mediterranean islands, whether Elba, the Lipari, Ponza, Procida,
Capri, Ischia, Pantellaria, Lampedusa,[976] or the Aegean groups. The sterile rock of Malta
has been converted for two-thirds of its area into fertile gardens, fields and orchards. The
upper stratum of rock has been pulverized and enriched by manure; the surface has been terraced
and walled to protect it against high winds. In consequence, the Maltese gardens are famous
throughout the Mediterranean.[977] In the Cyclades every patch of tillable ground is cultivated
by the industrious inhabitants. Terraced slopes are green with orchards of various southern
fruits, and between the trees are planted melons and vegetables. Fallow land and uncultivated
hillsides, as well as the limestone islands fit only for pastures, are used for flocks of sheep
and goats.[978]

[Sidenote: Japanese agriculture.]

It is in Japan that agriculture has attained a national and aesthetic importance reached nowhere
else. Of the 150,000 square miles constituting Japan proper, two-thirds are mountains; large
tracts of lowlands are useless rock wastes, owing to the detritus carried down by inundating
mountain torrents.[979] Hence to-day arable land forms only 15.7 per cent. of the whole area.
During the two hundred and fifty years of exclusion when emigration and foreign trade were
forbidden, a large and growing population had to be supplied from a small insular area, further
restricted by reason of the configuration of the surface. Here the geographical effects of
a small, naturally defined area worked out to their logical conclusion, Consequently agriculture
progressed rapidly and gave the farmer a rank in the social scale such as he attained nowhere
else.[980] His methods of tillage are much the same as in overcrowded China, but his national
importance and hence his ranking in society is much higher. In Japan to-day farming absorbs
60 per cent. of the population. The system of tillage, in many respects primitive, is yet very
thorough, and by means of skilful manuring makes one plot of ground yield two or three crops
per annum.[981] Every inch of arable land is cultivated in grain, vegetables and fruits. Mountains
and hills are terraced and tilled far up their slopes. Meadows are conspicuously absent, as
are also fallow fields. Land is too valuable to lie idle. Labor is chiefly manual and is shared
by the women and children; mattock and hoe are more common than the plow.[982] Such elaborate
cultivation and such pressure of population eventuate in small holdings. In Japan one hectar
(2 1-2 acres) is the average farm per family.

[Sidenote: The case of England.]

While Japan's agriculture reflected the small area of an island environment, and under its
influence reached a high development, England's from the beginning of the fifteenth century
declined before the competition of English commerce, which gained ascendency owing to the easy
accessibility of Great Britain to the markets of Europe. The ravages of the Black Death in
the latter half of the fourteenth century produced a scarcity of agricultural laborers and
hence a prohibitive increase of wages. To economize labor, the great proprietors resorted to
sheep farming and the raising of wool, which, either in the raw state or manufactured into
cloth, became the basis of English foreign trade. A distinct deterioration in agriculture followed
this reversion to a pastoral basis of economic life, supplemented by a growing commerce which
absorbed all the enterprise of the country. The steady contraction of the area under tillage
threw out of employment the great mass of agricultural laborers, made them paupers and vagrants.[983]
Hence England entered the period of maritime discoveries with a redundant population. This
furnished the raw material for her colonies, and made her territorial expansion assume a solid,
permanent character, unknown to the flimsy trading stations which mark the mere extension of
a field of commerce.

[Sidenote: Emigration and colonization from islands.]

Even when agriculture, fisheries and commerce have done their utmost, in the various stages
of civilization, to increase the food supply, yet insular populations tend to outgrow the means
of subsistence procurable from their narrow base. Hence islanders, like peninsula peoples,
are prone to emigrate and colonize. This tendency is encouraged by their mobility, born of
their nautical skill and maritime location. King Minos of Crete, according to Thucydides and
Aristotle, colonized the Cyclades.[984] Greece, from its redundant population, peopled various
Aegean and Ionian islands, which in turn threw off spores of settlements to other isles and
shores. Corcyra, which was colonized from the Peloponnesus, sent out a daughter colony to Epidamnos
on the Illyrian coast. Andros, one of the Cyclades, as early as 654 B.C., colonized Acanthus
and Stagirus in Chalcidice.[985] Paros, settled first by Cretans and then by Ionians, at a
very early date sent colonies to Thasos and to Parium on the Propontis, while Samos was a perennial
fountain emitting streams of settlement to Thrace, Cilicia, Crete, Italy and Sicily. [Map page
251.]

This moving picture of Greek emigration is duplicated in the Malay Archipelago, especially
in the smaller eastern islands. Almost every Malay tribe has traditions based upon migrations.
The southern Philippines derived the considerable Mohammedan element of their populations from
the Samal Laut, who came from Sumatra and the islands of the Strait of Malacca.[986] A Malayan
strain can be traced through Polynesia to far-off Easter Isle. Sometimes the emigration is
a voluntary exile from home for a short period and a definite purpose. The inhabitants of Bouton,
Binungku, and the neighboring islets, all of them located southeast of Celebes, have for the
past twenty-five years come in great numbers to the larger islands of Ceram, Buru, Amboina
and Banda, where they have laid out and carefully cultivated plantations of maize, tobacco,
bananas and coco-palms. Generally only the men come, work two years, save their profits and
then return home. These ambitious tillers look like savages, are shy as wild things of the
woods, and work naked to the waist.[987]

Polynesia, Melanesia and Micronesia, where every condition of land and sea tends to develop
the migratory spirit, form a region of extensive colonization.[988] Settlements of one race
are scattered among the island groups of another, making the ethnic boundaries wide penumbras.
In some smaller islands of Melanesia the Polynesian colonists have exterminated or expelled
the original inhabitants, and are found there now with all their distinctive race characteristics;
but in the larger islands, they have been merged in the resident population, and their presence
is only to be surmised from the existence of Polynesian customs, such as father-right in New
Hebrides and Solomon Island side by side with the prevailing Melanesian mother-right.[989]
In small islands, like Tongatabu, Samoa and Fiji, emigration becomes habitual, a gradual spilling
over of the redundant population and hence not a formidable inundation. In all this insular
region of the Pacific, the impulse to emigration is so persistent, that the resulting inter-insular
colonization obliterates sharp distinctions of race; it annuls the segregation of an island
environment, and makes everywhere for amalgamation and unification, rather than differentiation.[990]

[Sidenote: Modern emigration from islands.]

Among highly civilized peoples, where better economic methods bring greater density of population
and set at the same time a higher standard of living, emigration from islands is especially
marked. Japan has seen a formidable exodus since an end was put to its long period of compression.
This has taken the form of widespread emigration to various foreign lands, notably the Hawaiian
Islands and the United States, and also of internal colonization in its recently acquired territory
in Formosa and Korea.[991] The Maltese have spread from their congested island, and are found
to-day as gardeners, sailors and traders along all the Mediterranean coasts.[992] Majorca and
the more barren Cyclades[993] tell the same story. The men of Capri go in considerable numbers
to South America, but generally return home again. The Icelanders often pull themselves out
of the stagnation of their lonely, ungenerous island to become thrifty citizens of western Canada.

[Sidenote: Maritime enterprise as outlet.]

Emigration from islands readily throws itself into the channel of navigation and foreign trade.
The northern Sporades, especially Skiathos and Skopelos, are the home of sailors who can be
found over all the world.[994] In this appetency for a nautical career, small inshore islets
are often distinguished from the nearby mainland. Nearly all the masculine population of the
Frisian Islands were seamen prior to 1807. In the eighteenth century a third of the Hamburg
vessels were commanded by captains from the little island of Sylte, and a third of the Greenland
fleet of the Netherlands by natives of Föhr.[995]

In England the exodus took the form of trading expeditions and the foundation of commercial
colonies long before the food resources of the island had been even considerably developed.
The accessible sea offered lines of least resistance, while the monopoly of the land by a privileged
aristocracy and the fiercely defended corn laws made the limitations of a small area more oppressive.
In Ireland, a landless peasantry in a grainless land, dulled by deprivation of opportunity,
found in emigration an escape from insupportable evils.

[Sidenote: Artificial checks to population.]

While emigration draws off the surplus population, there tend to develop in islands, as also
in barren highlands where population early reaches the point of saturation, various devices
to restrict natural increase. The evils of congestion are foreseen and guarded against. Abbé
Raynal, writing of islanders in general, remarked as far back as 1795, "It is among these people
that we trace the origin of that multitude of singular institutions which retards the progress
of population. Anthropophagy, the castration of males, the infibulation of females, late marriages,
the consecration of virginity, the approbation of celibacy, the punishments exercised against
girls who become mothers at too early an age," he enumerates as such checks. Malthus, in his
Essay on Population, commenting on this statement, notes that the bounds to the number of inhabitants
on islands, especially small ones, are so narrow and so obvious that no one can ignore them.[996]

The checks to population practiced on islands are either preventive or positive. The extreme
measure to restrict marriage is found among the wretched Budumas who inhabit the small, marshy
islands of Lake Chad. Tribal custom allows only the chiefs and headmen to have wives. A brass
crescent inserted in the ear of a boy indicates the favored one among a chief's sons destined
to carry on his race. For his brothers this is made physically impossible; they become big,
dull, timid creatures contributing by their fishing to the support of the thinly populated
villages. The natives of the Shari River delta on the southern shore of Lake Chad use Buduma
as a term of contempt for a man.[997]

[Sidenote: Polyandry.]

In islands, as in unproductive highlands where hunger stalks abroad, marriage readily takes
the form of polyandry. On the Canary Islands, at the time of their conquest in 1402, polyandry
existed in Lancerote and possibly in Fuerteventura, often assigning one woman to three husbands;
but in the other islands of the group monogamy was strictly maintained.[998] In Oceanica polygamy,
monogamy or polyandry prevails according to a man's means, the poverty of the islands, and
the supply of women. A plurality of wives is always the privilege of the chiefs and the wealthy,
but all three forms of marriage may be found on the same island. Scarcity of women gives rise
to polyandry in Tahiti,[999] and consigns one woman to four or five men. In old Hawaii, where
there were four or five men to one woman a kind of incipient polyandry arose by the addition
of a countenanced paramour to the married couple's establishment.[1000] Robert Louis Stevenson
found the same complaisant arrangement a common one in the Marquesas, where the husband's deputy
was designated by the term of pikio in the native vocabulary.[1001] Polyandry existed in Easter
Isle, among whose stunted and destitute population the men far exceeded the women, and children
were few, according to reports of the early visitors.[1002] Numerous other instances make this
connection between island habitat, deficiency of women, need of checking increase, and polyandrous
marriages an obvious one.[1003]

[Sidenote: Infanticide.]

This disproportion of the sexes in Oceanica is due to the murder of female infants, too early
child-bearing, overwork, privation, licentiousness, and the violence of the men.[1004] The
imminence of famine dictates certain positive checks to population, among which infanticide
and abortion are widespread in Oceanica. In some parts of the New Hebrides and the Solomon
groups it is so habitual, that in some families all children are killed, and substitutes purchased
at will.[1005] In the well-tilled Fiji Islands, a pregnant girl is strangled and her seducer
slain. The women make a practice of drinking medicated waters to produce sterility. Failing
in this, the majority kill their children either before or after birth. In the island of Vanua
Levu infanticide reaches from one-half to two-thirds of all children conceived; here it is
reduced to a system and gives employment to professional murderers of babies, who hover like
vultures over every child-bed. All destroyed after birth are females.[1006] And yet here, as
on many other islands of Melanesia and Polynesia, such offspring as are spared are treated
with foolish fondness and indulgence.[1007] The two facts are not incompatible.

[Sidenote: Approved by the state.]

Geographic conditions made infanticide a state measure in these crowded communities. On the
small coral atolls, where the food supply was scantest, it was enforced by law. On Vaitupu,
in the Ellice group, only two children were allowed to a couple; on Nukufelau, only one. Any
violation of this unique sumptuary law was punished by a fine.[1008] On the congested Gilbert
atolls, a woman rarely had more than two children, never more than three. Abortion, produced
by a regular midwife, disposed of any subsequent offspring. Affection for children was very
strong here, and infanticide of the living was unknown.[1009] In Samoa, also, Turner found
the practice restricted to the period before birth; but in Tahiti and elsewhere it was enforced
by the tribal village authorities on the born and unborn.[1010] In pre-Christian Hawaii, two-thirds
of all children, and especially girls, were killed by their parents either before or after
birth. The result was a decay of the maternal instinct and the custom of farming out children
to strangers. This contributed to the excess of infant mortality, the degeneration of morals
and the instability of the family.[1011] So in Japan the pressure of population led to infanticide
and the sale of daughters to a life of ignominy, which took them out of the child-bearing class.[1012]
Nor was either custom under the ban.

The result is a deterioration of morals, an invasion of the family bond, and a decay of the
finer sentiments therewith connected. Captain Cook in 1770 found in Tahiti Eareeoie or Arreoys
societies, which were free-love associations including in their number "over half of the better
sort of the inhabitants." The children begotten of these promiscuous unions were smothered
at birth. Malthus reports a similar association in the Marianne Islands, distinguished by a
similar name, devoted to race suicide.[1014] Everywhere in Oceanica marriage is unstable, and
with few exceptions unchastity prevails. Stevenson thinks it chiefly accountable for the decline
of population in the islands.[1015] However, in the detailed taboos laid upon women in Fiji,
Marquesas, and other Polynesian islands we have the survival of an early measure to increase
reserve between the sexes, long after regard for chastity has vanished.[1016]

[Sidenote: Low valuation of human life.]

The constant pressure of population upon the limits of subsistence throughout Oceanica has
occasioned a low valuation of human life. Among natural peoples the helpless suffer first.
The native Hawaiians, though a good-natured folk, were relentless towards the aged, weak, sick,
and insane. These were frequently stoned to death or allowed to perish of hunger.[1017] In
Fiji, the aged are treated with such contempt, that when decrepitude or illness threatens them,
they beg their children to strangle them, unless the children anticipate the request.[1018]
In Vate (or Efate) of the New Hebrides, old people are buried alive, and their passage to another
world duly celebrated by a feast.[1019] However, in the Tonga Islands and in New Zealand, great
respect and consideration are shown the aged as embodying experience.[1020] The harsher custom
recalls an ancient law of Aegean Ceos, which, ordained that all persons over sixty years of
age should be compelled to drink hemlock, in order that there might be sufficient food for
the rest.[1021]

[Sidenote: Cannibalism in islands.]

Many customs of Oceanica can be understood only in the light of the small value attached to
human life in this island world. The overpopulation which lies back of their colonization explains
the human sacrifices in their religious orgies and funeral rites, as also the widespread practice
of cannibalism. This can be traced in vestigial forms, or as an occasional or habitual custom
from one end of the Pacific to the other, from the Marquesas to New Guinea and from New Zealand
to Hawaii. All Melanesia is tainted with it, and Micronesia is not above suspicion. The cause
of this extensive practice, Stevenson attributes to the imminence of famine and the craving
for flesh as food in these small islands, which are destitute of animals except fowls, dogs
and hogs. In times of scarcity cannibalism threatens all; it strikes from within or without
the clan.[1022] Ratzel leans to the same opinion.[1023] Captain Cook thought the motive of
a good full meal of human flesh was often back of the constant warfare in New Zealand, and
was sometimes the only alternative of death by hunger. Cannibalism was not habitual in the
Tonga Islands, but became conspicuous during periods of famine.[1024] In far-away Tierra del
Fuego, where a peculiarly harsh climate and the low cultural status of the natives combine
to produce a frightful infant mortality and therefore to repress population, cannibalism within
the clan is indulged in only at the imperious dictate of mid-winter hunger. The same thing
is true in the nearby Chonos Archipelago.[1025]

These are the darker effects of an island habitat, the vices of its virtues. That same excessive
pressure of population which gives rise to infanticide also stimulates agriculture, industry
and trade; it develops ingenuity in making the most of local resources, and finally leads to
that widespread emigration and colonization which has made islanders the great distributors
of culture, from Easter Isle to Java and from ancient Crete to modern England.

NOTES TO CHAPTER XIII

[803] Table of areas of peninsulas and islands, Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, p. 9. Gotha, 1905.

[804] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 105-108. London, 1904.

[805] W. Deecke, Italy, p. 45. London, 1904.

[806] Journey of William de Rubruquis, pp. 187, 204, Hakluyt Society Publication, London, 1903.

[807] Archibald Little, The Far East, pp. 35, 45. Oxford, 1905.

[808] Strabo, Book X, chap. II, 19. Leipzig, 1901.

[810] Charles H. Hawes, In the Uttermost East, p. 103. New York, 1904.

[811] W.E. Griffis, The Mikado's Empire, Vol. I, pp. 26-27. New York, 1904.

[813] A.R. Wallace, Geographical Distribution of Animals, Vol. II, p. 61. London, 1876.

[814] Darwin, Origin of Species, Vol. II, chap. XIII, p. 183. New York, 1895.

[815] Ibid., Vol. II, chap. XIII, pp. 178-180.

[816] A.R. Wallace, Island Life, pp. 331-332, 338-389, 393, 402, 409-410, 449, 456-463. New
York, 1893.

[817] Ibid., 342, 370-371.

[818] Emerson, English Traits, chap. VI.

[819] Capt. F. Brinkley, Japan, Vol. I, p. 50. Boston and Tokyo, 1901.

[820] W.E. Griffis, The Mikado's Empire, Vol. I, p. 198. New York, 1904.

[821] Arthur M. Knapp, Feudal and Modern Japan, Vol. I, pp. 211, 220, 221. New York, 1900.

[822] Emerson, English Traits, chap. III.

[823] Ronald M. Burrows, The Discoveries in Crete, pp. 134-136, 141, 162, 177. New York, 1907.

[824] Ibid., chapters IV and V.

[825] Ibid., p. 179. Angelo Mosso, The Palaces of Crete, pp. 46, 54-55, 61-62, 81. London, 1907.

[826] Ronald M. Burrows, The Discoveries in Crete, pp. 64-65, 82, 84, 147-150. New York, 1907.
James Baikie, The Sea Kings of Crete, pp. 235-237. London, 1910.

[827] J.B. Bury, History of Greece, pp. 8-10. New York,1909.

[828] R.M. Burrows, The Discoveries in Crete, pp. 36, 44-46, 50-51, 85, 149-150, 179. New York,
1907.

[829] Ibid., 136-137.

[830] Private communication from Mrs. Harriet Boyd Hawes.

[831] Recent Discoveries in Crete, The Chautauquan, Vol. 43, p. 220. 1906. R.M. Burrows, The
Discoveries in Crete, pp. 103, 162. New York, 1907.

[832] Grote, History of Greece, Vol. IV, pp. 244-245. New York, 1857.

[833] Strabo, Book XIV, chap. II, 7-13.

[834] Strabo, Book VII, chap. VI, 16. House Misc. Doc. 142. Washington. Dr. George Dawson,
The Haidas, Harper's Monthly, August, 1882.

[836] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 180. London, 1896-1898.

[837] Article, The National Academy of Sciences, Nation, Vol. LXXX, p. 328. 1905. Capt. James
Cook, A Voyage Towards the South Pole, 1772-1775, Vol. I, p. 284, 288-296. London. 1777. George
Forster, Voyage Round the World, Vol. I, pp. 566-567, 580-581, 586-591. London, 1777.

[838] G. Sergi, The Mediterranean Race, chap. VII. London and New York, 1901. Helmolt, History
of the World, Vol. IV, pp. 222-223. New York, 1902-1906.

[839] Charles W. Hawes, The Uttermost East, pp. 113-116. New York, 1904.

[840] William Bright, Early English Church History, pp. 224-234. Oxford. 1897. P. W. Joyce,
Social History of Ireland, Vol. I, pp. 320, 389, 390. London, 1903.

[841] W.H. Dall, Masks and Labrets, p. 137. Third Annual Report of Bureau of Ethnology, Washington,
1884. Washington.

[843] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 187. New York, 1902.

[844] A.B. Ellis, The West African Islands, p. 202. London, 1885. History of the Conquest of
the Canaries, Introduction, pp. XIII, XVII, XXXIII, XXXIV. Hakluyt Society, London, 1872.

[845] Henry Gannett, People of the Philippines, Report of the Eighth International Geographical
Congress, Washington, 1904.

[846] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 549. New York, 1903.

[847] W. Deecke, Italy, p. 451. London, 1904.

[848] Nelson Annandale, The Faroes and Iceland, p. 14. Oxford, 1905.

[849] J. Partsch, Central Europe, Map, p. 131, and p. 133. London, 1903.

[850] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 272, 304, 305, 317. New York, 1899.

[851] Ibid., p. 303.

[852] Ibid., Map, p. 251, and p. 253.

[853] W. Deecke, Italy, p. 451. London, 1904.

[854] Darwin, Origin of Species, Vol. II, chap. XIII, pp. 179, 180, 184. New York, 1895. A.
E. Wallace, Island Life, pp. 284-285, 290-291. London and New York, 1892.

[855] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 554. New York, 1902.

[856] Ratzel, Die Erde und das Leben, Vol. I, p. 364. Leipsig, 1901.

[857] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 454-456. London, 1896-1898. H.R. Mill, International
Geography, p. 1018. New York, 1902.

[858] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 456. London, 1896-1898.

[859] Nordenskiold, Voyage of the Vega, pp. 563, 588, 591. New York, 1882.

[860] A.R. Wallace, Malay Archipelago, pp. 368, 380, 381. New York, 1869.

[861] Richard Semon, In the Australian Bush, pp. 277-278. London,1899.

[862] Strabo, Book VIII, chap. VI, 16.

[863] Pliny, Naturalis Historia, Book IV, 12.

[864] Ibid., Book VI, chap, 32.

[865] Hereford George, Historical Geography of the British Empire, pp. 130-133. London, 1904.
Jena, 1879.

[867] Hereford George, Historical Geography of the British Empire, pp. 127-128. London, 1904.

[868] The Danish West Indies, pp. 2767, 2769. Summary of Commerce and Finance for January,
1902. Washington.

[869] E.A. Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, pp. 22, 29, 37, 65, 77, 384, 412-415, 419,
426, 465. London, 1882.

[870] Ibid., 35, 48, 49, 54-55, 80, 379, 382-385, 409, 411, 556, 557. E.A. Freeman, Sicily,
chaps. I, II. New York and London, 1894.

[871] W. Deecke, Italy, pp. 132, 445. London, 1904. W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, p. 271. New
York, 1899.

[872] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. I, p. 320. New York, 1886.

[873] W. Deecke, Italy, pp. 448, 453. London, 1904.

[874] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 367. New York, 1902.

[875] David Murray, Story of Japan, p. 156. New York, 1894.

[876] Henry Dyer. Dai Nippon, p. 61. New York, 1904.

[877] E.A. Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, pp. 55, 245, 252, 257, 258, 264, 556. London,
1882.

[878] Thucydides I, 114; IV, 57-59, 62.

[879] Ibid., IV, 120-122.

[880] Aristotle, Politics, Book XI, chaps. 7, 8.

[881] J.T. Bent, The Bahrein Islands in the Persian Gulf, Proceedings of the Roy. Geog. Soc.,
Vol. XII, p. 1. London, 1890.

[882] W.F. Walker, The Azores, p. 22. London, 1886.

[883] A.B. Ellis, West African Islands, p. 203. London, 1885.

[884] Strabo, Book III, chap. V, 1.

[885] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 10-12. London, 1904.

[886] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 301, 311. New York, 1899.

[887] H.B. George, Historical Geography of the British Empire, pp. 100, 103, 104. London, 1904.

[888] J.R. Green, The Making of England, Vol. II, pp. 30, 31, 35. London, 1904.

[889] James Bryce, Holy Roman Empire, p. 185. London, 1890. George Webbe Dasent, The Story
of Burnt Njal, or Life in Iceland at the End of the Tenth Century, Vol. I, pp. LII-LXVIII.
Edinburgh, 1861.

[890] Dahlmann, Geschichte van Dänemark, Vol. II, pp. 265-268. Hamburg, 1857. James Bryce,
Introduction to Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. I, p. XXII. New York, 1902.

[891] George T. Stokes, Ireland and the Celtic Church, pp. 206-230. London, 1886.

[892] J.R. Green, History of the English People, Vol. I, pp. 48-49.

[893] Recent Discoveries in Crete, The Chautauquan, Vol. XLIII, p. 220. 1906. Angelo Mosso,
The Palaces of Crete, p. 325. London, 1907.

[894] Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. II, pp. 496-504 New York 1902-6.

[895] David Murray, Story of Japan, p. 156. New York, 1894. W.E. Griffis, The Mikado's Empire,
Vol. I, pp. 176-181. New York, 1903.

[896] J.R. Green, History of the English People, Vol. I, pp. 30-33. New York.

[897] Capt. F. Brinkley, Japan, Vol. I, p. 8. Boston and Tokyo, 1901.

[898] Capt. A.T. Mahan, Influence of Sea Power upon History, p. 29. New York, 1902.

[899] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 341, 343. London, 1904.

[900] Ratzel, Die Erde und das Leben, Vol. I, p. 362. Leipzig, 1901.

[901] W.E. Griffis, The Mikado's Empire, Vol. I, p. 258. New York, 1903.

[902] W.F. Walker, The Azores, p. 2. London, 1886.

[903] F.W. Wines, Punishment and Reformation, pp. 166-167, 184-188. New York, 1895.

[904] Tacitus, Annals, Book I, chap. XIII.

[905] Ibid., Book IV, chaps. III, XV. Book II, chap. XIX.

[906] W. Deecke, Italy, pp. 270, 410, 413, 448, 450. London, 1904.

[907] Longmans Gazetteer of the World, Article Easter Isle.

[908] Darwin and Fitzroy, Voyage of the Beagle, Vol. II, p. 59. London, 1839.

[909] Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 490-492.

[910] A.B. Ellis, West African Islands, pp. 1-3. London, 1885.

[911] Longmans Gazetteer of the World, Andaman and Nicobar.

[912] Darwin and Fitzroy, Voyage of the Beagle, Vol. III, p. 245. London, 1839.

[913] A.B. Ellis, West African Islands, pp. 72, 73, 241. London, 1885.

[914] Charles H. Hawes, The Uttermost East, p. 345. New York, 1904.

[915] The Dry Tortugas, Harper's Monthly, Vol. 37, p. 260. 1868.

[916] A.R. Wallace, Island Life, pp. 332, 371, 410, 457, 460-461, 464. London, 1892.

[917] Ibid., pp. 407, 408, 410, 462.

[918] Census of the Philippine Islands of 1903, Vol. I, p. 456. Washington, 1905. London, 1896-1898.

[920] W.E. Griffis, The Mikado's Empire, Vol. I, pp. 30-31. New York, 1903.

[921] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, p. 271. New York, 1899.

[922] Hereford George, Historical Geography of the British Empire, pp. 106-107. London, 1904.

[923] Nelson Annandale, The Faroes and Iceland, pp. 19, 20, 33, 37, 64-65, 148, 193-194, 198,
206, 208. Oxford, 1905. New York, 1796.

[925] Williams and Calvert, Fiji and the Fijians, pp. 5-7, 14, 15. New York, 1859. Basil Thomson,
The Fijians, pp. 23-32. London, 1908.

[926] Mahler, Siedelungsgebiete und Siedelungslage in Ozeanien. Melching Staatenbildung in
Melanesien, Leipzig, Dissertations, 1897.

[927] H.R. Mill, International Geography, p. 570. New York, 1902.

[928] Aristotle, Politics, Book II, chap. 8.

[929] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, 297-299. London, 1896-1898.

[930] Ibid., Vol. I, Map, p. 145, pp. 234, 251.

[931] Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 204-214.

[932] Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, p. 67. Gotha, 1910.

[933] Ibid., p. 60.

[934] Ibid., p. 37.

[935] Ibid., p. 51.

[936] Ibid., pp. 37, 67.

[937] Lippincott's New Gazetteer of the World, Madeira and Azores.

[938] R.L. Stevenson, The South Seas, p. 37. New York, 1903.

[939] Ibid., p. 222.

[940] J.S. Jenkins, United States Exploring Squadron under Capt. Wilkes, 1838-1842, pp. 401-403.
New York, 1855.

[941] Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, p. 70. Gotha, 1905.

[942] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 158, 179. London, 1896-1898. New York, 1855.

[944] Ibid., p. 314.

[945] Nelson Annandale, The Faroes and Iceland, pp. 93-129. Oxford, 1905.

[946] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. IV, p. 344. New York, 1886.

[947] John Murray, Handbook to Greece and the Ionian Isles, p. 329. London, 1872.

[948] Hereford George, Historical Geography of the British Empire, p. 119. London, 1904.

[949] W. Deecke, Italy, pp. 449-450. London, 1904.

[950] Ibid., pp. 447-448, 410-411.

[951] Statistics from Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, p. 65. Gotha, 1910.

[952] Longmans Gazetteer of the World, Amboina.

[953] Census of the Philippine Islands of 1903. Vol. II, p. 30. Washington, 1905.

[954] Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, pp. 75, 77. Gotha, 1910.

[955] Hereford George, Historical Geography of the British Empire, pp. 238-240. London, 1904.

[956] D.G. Hogarth, The Nearer East, pp. 243-244. London, 1902.

[957] Dr. A. Philippson, The Greek Islands of the Aegean, Scottish Geographical Magazine, Vol.
XIII, p. 489. 1897.

[958] J.T. Brent, The Bahrein Islands in the Persian Gulf, Proceedings of the Roy. Geog. Society,
Vol. XII, pp. 1-19, 1890; and Justus Perthes, Taschen Atlas, p. 55. Gotha, 1910.

[959] Parkman, Pioneers of France in the New World, pp. 26-32. Boston, 1900.

[960] Ibid., pp. 253-262.

[961] Thucydides, I, 100, 101. Herodotus, VII, 108, 109.

[962] Grote, History of Greece, Vol. III, pp. 195, 197. New York, 1857.

[963] Ibid., Vol. IV, pp. 30-33. New York. 1796.

[965] George Forster, Voyage Round the World, Vol. I, p. 274, 280, 281, 285. London, 1777.
New York, 1855.

[967] George Forster, Voyage Round the World, Vol. I, pp. 571, 578, 587, 595. London, 1777.

[968] R.H. Codrington, The Melanesians, pp. 303-304. Oxford, 1891.

[969] William Mariner, Natives of the Tonga Islands, Vol. II, p. 30. Edinburgh, 1827. I, p.
302. New York, 1796.

[971] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 254-256. London, 1896-1898.

[972] Williams and Calvert, Fiji and the Fijians, pp. 8, 46-49. New York, 1859. Basil Thomson,
The Fijians, p. 339. London, 1908.

[973] H.R. Mill, International Geography, pp. 562, 564, 572. New York, 1902.

[974] Census of the Philippine Islands of 1903, Vol. IV, pp. 1-2. Washington, 1905.

[975] Strabo, Book VIII, chap. VI, 16.

[976] W. Deecke, Italy, pp. 380, 448-450. London, 1904.

[977] Ibid., p. 452. 1897. John Murray, Handbook to Greece and the Ionian Isles. London, 1872.

[979] W.E. Griffis, The Mikado's Empire, Vol. I, pp. 17-20. New York, 1904.

[980] Henry Dyer, Dai Nippon, pp. 238-244. New York, 1903. Arthur M. Knapp, Feudal and Modern
Japan, Vol. I, pp. 78, 79, 116, 117. New York, 1900.

[981] Alfred Stead, Japan by the Japanese, p. 413. London, 1904.

[982] Sir Rutherford Alcock, Three Years in Japan, Vol. I, pp. 83, 84, 283-286. New York, 1868.

[983] H.D. Traill, Social England, Vol. II, pp. 243-246, 547-554; Vol. III, pp. 114-121, 239-241,
253-255, 351-359. London, 1905.

[984] Thucydides, Book I, 4. Aristotle, Politics, Book II, chap. 7, 2. Herodotus, Book VII, 170.

[985] Thucydides, Book IV, chaps. 84, 88.

[986] Census of the Philippine Islands in 1903, Vol. I, pp. 412-414. Washington, 1905.

[987] Richard Semon, In the Australian Bush, p. 517. London, 1899.

[988] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 174-177. London, 1896-98.

[989] Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 178-179.

[990] Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 157-161, 165.

[991] Henry Dyer, Dai Nippon, pp. 250-257, 266. New York, 1904.

[992] Elisée Reclus, Europe, Vol. I, p. 337. New York, 1886. Hereford George, Historical Geography
of the British Empire, pp. 118-119. London, 1904.

[993] D.G. Hogarth, The Nearer East, p. 244. London, 1902. 1897.

[995] Jensen, Die Nordfrieschen Inseln, p. 133. 1891.

[996] Malthus, Essay on Population, Book I, chap. V, p. 67. London, 1826. This whole chapter
on "Checks to Population in the Islands of the South Seas" is valuable.

[997] Boyd Alexander, From the Niger to the Nile, Vol. II, pp. 108-110. London, 1907.

[998] History of the Conquest of the Canaries, p. xxxix. Hakluyt Society, London, 1872.

[999] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 273, 299-300. London, 1896-98.

[1000] Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 270, 274-275. Adolf Marcuse, Die Hawaiischen Inseln, p. 108. Berlin,
1894.

[1001] R.L. Stevenson, The South Seas, pp. 138-139. New York, 1903.

[1002] George Forster, Voyage Round the World, Vol. I, p. 564, 569, 572, 577, 584, 586, 596.
London, 1777.

[1003] Westermarck, History of Human Marriage, pp. 116, 441, 462-463, 450-452, 454, 457. London,
1891.

[1004] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 270. London, 1896-1898.

[1005] R.H. Codrington, The Melanesians, p. 229. Oxford, 1891.

[1006] Basil Thomson, The Fijians, pp. 221-227. London, 1908. Williams and Calvert, Fiji and
the Fijians, pp. 132, 142. New York, 1859.

[1007] Ibid., p. 130. R.L. Stevenson, The South Seas, pp. 38, 40. New York, 1903.

[1008] Ibid., p. 38. New York, 1855.

[1010] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 270, 299. London, 1896-98.

[1011] Adolf Marcuse, Die Hawaiischen Inseln, p. 109. Berlin, 1894.

[1012] G.W. Knox, Japanese Life in Town and Country, p. 188. New York, 1905.

[1013] Capt. Cook's Journal, First Voyage Round the World in the Endeavor, 1768-1771, pp. 95,
96. Edited by W.J.L. Wharton. London, 1893.

[1014] Malthus, Essay on Population, Book I, chap. V.

[1015] R.L. Stevenson, The South Seas, p. 39. New York, 1903.

[1016] Ibid., p. 52.

[1018] Williams and Calvert, Fiji and the Fijians, pp. 144-146. New York, 1859.

[1019] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 330. London, 1896-1898.

[1020] William Mariner, Natives of the Tonga Islands, Vol. II, pp. 95, 134-135. Edinburgh,
1827. Edited by W.J.L. Wharton. London, 1893.

[1021] Strabo, Book X, chap. V, 6.

[1022] R.L. Stevenson, The South Seas, pp. 98-104. New York, 1903.

[1023] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, pp. 297-299. London, 1896-1898. Edinburgh, 1827.

[1025] Darwin and Fitzroy, Voyage of the Beagle, Vol. II, pp. 183, 189-190. London, 1839.

CHAPTER XIV

PLAINS, STEPPES AND DESERTS

[Sidenote: Relief of the sea floor.]

Anthropo-geography has to do primarily with the forms and relief of the land. The relief of
the sea floor influences man only indirectly. It does this by affecting the forms of the coast,
by contributing to the action of tides in scouring out river estuaries, as on the flat beaches
of Holland and England, by determining conditions for the abundant littoral life of the sea,
the fisheries of the continental shelf which are factors in the food quest and the distribution
of settlements. Moreover, the ocean floor enters into the problem of laying telegraph cables,
and thereby assumes a certain commercial and political importance. The name of the Telegraph
Plateau of the North Atlantic, crossed by three cables, points to the relation between these
and submarine relief. So also does the erratic path of the cable from southwestern Australia
to South Africa via Keeling Island and Mauritius.

Submarine reliefs have yet greater significance in their relation to the distribution of the
human race over the whole earth; for what is now a shallow sea may in geologically recent times
have been dry land, on which primitive man crossed from continent to continent. It is vital
to the theory of the Asiatic origin of the American Indian that in Miocene times a land bridge
spanned the present shallows of Bering Sea. Hence the slight depth of this basin has the same
bio-geographical significance as that of the British seas, the waters of the Malay Archipelago,
and the Melanesian submarine platform. The impressive fact about "Wallace's Line" is the depth
of the narrow channel which it follows through Lombok and Macassar Straits and which, in recent
geological times, defined the southeastern shore of Asia. In all these questions of former
land connection, anthropo-geography follows the lead of bio-geography, whose deductions, based
upon the dispersal of countless plant and animal forms, point to the paths of human distribution.

[Sidenote: Mean elevations of the continents.]

The mean elevation of the continents above sea level indicates the average life conditions
of their populations as dependent upon relief. The 1010 meters (3313 feet) of Asia indicate
its predominant highland character. The 330 meters (1080 feet) representing the average height
of Europe, and the 310 meters (1016 feet) of Australia indicate the preponderance of lowlands.
Nevertheless, anthropo-geography rarely lends itself to a mathematical statement of physical
conditions. Such a statement only obscures the facts. The 660 meters (2164 feet) mean elevation
of Africa indicates a relief higher than Europe, but gives no hint of the plateau character
of the Dark Continent, in which lowlands and mountains are practically negligible features;
while the almost identical figure (650 meters or 2133 feet) for both North and South America
is the average derived from extensive lowlands in close juxtaposition to high plateaus capped
by lofty mountain ranges. Such mathematical generalizations indicate the general mass of the
continental upheaval, but not the way this mass is divided into low and high reliefs.[1026]

The method of anthropo-geography is essentially analytical, and therefore finds little use
for general orometric statements, which may be valuable to the science of geo-morphology with
its radically different standpoint. For instance, geo-morphology may calculate from all the
dips and gaps in the crest of a mountain range the average height of its passes, Anthropo-geography,
on the other hand, distinguishes between the various passes according as they open lines of
greater or less resistance to the historical movement across the mountain barriers. It finds
that one deep breach in the mountain wall, like the Mohawk Depression[1027] and Cumberland
Gap in the Appalachian system,[1028] Truckee Pass in the Sierra Nevada[1029] and the Brenner
in the Alps,[1030] has more far-reaching and persistent historical consequences than a dozen
high-laid passes that only notch the crest. Pack-trail, road and railroad seek the former,
avoid the latter; one draws from a wide radius, while the other serves a restricted local need.
Therefore anthropo-geography, instead of clumping the passes, sorts them out, and notes different
relations in each.

[Sidenote: Distribution of reliefs.]

In continents and countries the anthropo-geographer looks to see not what reliefs are present,
but how they are distributed; whether highlands and lowlands appear in unbroken masses as in
Asia, or alternate in close succession as in western Europe; whether the transition from one
to the other is abrupt as in western South America, or gradual as in the United States. A simple
and massive land structure lends the same trait of the simple and massive to every kind of
historical movement, because it collects the people into large groups and starts them moving
in broad streams, as it were. This fact explains the historical preponderance of lowland peoples
and especially of steppe nomads over the small, scattered groups inhabiting isolated mountain
valleys. The island of Great Britain illustrates the same principle on a small scale in the
turbid, dismembered history of independent Scotland, with its Highlanders and Lowlanders, its
tribes and clans separated by mountains, gorges, straits, and fiords,[1031] in contrast to
the smoother, unified course of history in the more uniform England. Carl Ritter compares the
dull uniformity of historical development and relief in Africa with the variegated assemblage
of highlands and lowlands, nations and peoples, primitive societies and civilized states in
the more stimulating environment of Asia.[1032]

[Sidenote: Homologous relief and homologous histories.]

The chief features of mountain relief reappear on a large scale in the continents, which are
simply big areas of upheaval lifted above sea level. The continents show therefore homologous
regions of lowlands, uplands, plateaus and mountains, each district sustaining definite relations
to the natural terrace above or below it, and displaying a history corresponding to that of
its counterpart in some distant part of the world, due to a similarity of relations. This appears
first in a specialization of products in each tier and hence in more or less economic interdependence,
especially where civilization is advanced. The tendency of conquest to unite such obviously
complementary districts is persistent. Hence the Central Highland of Asia is fringed with low
peripheral lands like Manchuria, China, India and Mesopotamia, into whose history it has repeatedly
entered as a disturbing force. All the narrow Pacific districts of the Americas from Alaska
to Patagonia are separated by the Cordilleras from the lowlands on the Atlantic face of the
continents; all reveal in their history the common handicap arising from an overwhelming preponderance
of plateau and mountain and a paucity of lowlands. Colombia, Ecuador and Peru have in the past
century been stretching out their hands eastward to grasp sections of the bordering Amazon
lowlands, where to-day is the world's great field of conflicting boundary claims. Chile would
follow its geographical destiny if it should supplement its high, serrated surface by the plateaus
and lowlands of Bolivia, as Cyrus the Persian married the Plateau of Iran to the plains of
the Tigris and Euphrates, and Romulus joined the Alban hills to the alluvial fields of the Tiber.

[Sidenote: Anthropo-geography of lowlands.]

Well-watered lowlands invite expansion, ethnic, commercial and political. In them the whole
range of historical movements meet few obstacles beyond the waters gathering in their runnels
and the forests nourished in their rich soils. Limited to 200 meters (660 feet) elevation,
lowlands develop no surface features beyond low hills and undulating swells of land. Uniformity
of life conditions, monotony of climate as of relief, except where grades of latitude intervene
to chill or heat, an absence of natural boundaries, and constant encouragement to intercourse,
are the anthropo-geographic traits of lowlands, as opposed to the arresting, detaining grasp
of mountains and highland valleys. Small, isolated lowlands, like the mountain-rimmed plains
of Greece and the Aegean coast of Asia Minor, the Nile flood-plain, Portugal, and Andalusia
in Spain, may achieve precocious and short-lived historical importance, owing to the fertility
of their alluvial soils, their character as naturally defined districts, and their advantageous
maritime location; but while in these restricted lowlands the telling feature has been their
barrier boundaries of desert, mountains and sea, the vast level plains of the earth have found
their distinctive and lasting historical importance in the fact of their large and unbounded
surface.

Such plains have been both source and recipient of every form of historical movement. Owing
to their prevailing fitness for agriculture, trade and intercourse, they are favored regions
for the final massing of a sedentary population. The areas of greatest density of population
in the world, harboring 150 or more to the square kilometer (385 to the square mile), are found
in the lowlands of China, the alluvial plains of India, and similar level stretches in the
Neapolitan plain and Po Valley, the lowlands of France, Germany, Holland, Belgium, England
and Scotland. Such a density is found in upland districts (660 to 2000 feet, or 200 to 600
meters) bordering agricultural lowlands, only where industries based upon mineral wealth cause
a concentration of population. [See maps pages 8, 9, 559.]

[Sidenote: Extensive plains unfavorable to early development.]

The level or undulating surface of extensive lowlands is not favorable to the early development
of civilization. Not only do their wide extent and absence of barriers postpone the transition
from nomadism to sedentary life, but their lack of contrasting environments and contrasted
developments, which supplement and stimulate, puts chains upon progress. A flat, monotonous
relief produces a monotonous existence, necessarily one-sided, needing a complement in upland
or mountain. To the pioneer settlers in the lowlands of Missouri the Ozark Plateau was a boon,
because its streams furnished water-power for much needed saw and flour mills. Treeless Egypt
even before 2500 B. C. depended upon the cedars of the Lebanon Mountains for the construction
of its ships; so that the conquest of Lebanon, begun by Thutmose I. and completed by Thutmose
III. in about 1470 B. C., had a sound geographical basis.[1033] Similarly the exploitation
of the copper, malachite, turquoise and lapis-lazuli of Mount Sinai, minerals not found in
the Nile plain, led the ancient Egyptians into extensive mining operations there before 3000
B. C., and resulted in the establishment of Egyptian political supremacy in 2900 B. C., as
a measure to protect the mines against the depredations of the neighboring Bedouin tribes.[1034]
Lowlands lack the distinctive advantages of highlands found in diversity of climate, water-power,
generally in more abundant forests and minerals. The latter are earlier discovered and worked
in the tilted strata of mountains and uplands.

Plain countries suffer particularly from a paucity of varied geographic conditions and of resulting
contrasts in their population. Their national characters tend to be less richly endowed; their
possibilities for development are blighted or retarded, because even racial differences are
rapidly obliterated in the uniform geographic environment, A small diversified country like
Crete, Great Britain, Italy, Portugal, Saxony, or Japan, is a geographical multum in parvo.
The western half of Europe bears the same stamp, endowing each country and nation with marked
individuality born of partial isolation and a varied combination of environment. The larger
eastern half of the continent embraced in the plains of Poland and Russia shows monotony in
every aspect of human life. This comes out anthropologically in the striking similarity of
head-form found everywhere north and east of the Carpathian Mountains, except in the secluded
districts of Lithuania and Crimea, which shelter remnants of distinct races. Over all this
vast territory the range of cephalic variation is only five units or one-third that in the
restricted but diversified territory of western Europe. Italy, only one-eighteenth the size
of European Russia, has a range of fifteen units, reflecting in the variety of its human types
the diversity of its environment.[1035]

[Sidenote: Conditions for fusion in plains.]

In the plains geography makes for fusion. Russia shows this marked homogeneity, despite a motley
collection of race ingredients which have entered into the make-up of the Russian people. Without
boundary or barrier, the country has stood wide open to invasion; but the intruders found no
secluded corners where they could entrench themselves and preserve their national individuality.[1036]
They dropped into a vast melting-pot, which has succeeded in amalgamating the most diverse
elements. The long-drawn Baltic-North Sea plain of Europe shows the same power to fuse. Here
is found a prevailing blond, long-headed stock from the Gulf of Finland to the Somme River
in France.[1037] Yet this natural boulevard has been a passway for races. Prehistoric evidences
show that the dark, broad-headed Celtic folk once overspread this plain east to the Weser;[1038]
it still tends to trickle down from the southern uplands into the Baltic lowland, and modify
the Teutonic type along its southern margin throughout Germany.[1039] The Slavs in historic
times reached as far west as the Weser, while the expansion of the Teutons has embraced the
whole maritime plain from Brittany to the Finnish Gulf. Here it is difficult to draw an ethnic
boundary on the basis of physical differences. The eastern Prussians are Slavonized Teutons,
and the adjacent Poles seem to be Teutonized Slavs, while the purest type of Letto-Lithuanian
at the eastern corner of the Baltic coast approximates closely to the Anglo-Saxon type which
sprang from the western corner.[1040] A similar amalgamation of races and peoples has taken
place in the lowlands of England and Scotland, while diversity still lingers in the highlands.
In the Lowlands of Scotland, Picts in small numbers, Britons, Scots from Ireland, Angles, Frisians,
Northmen and Danes have all been blended and assimilated in habits, customs and speech.[1041]

[Sidenote: Retardation due to monotonous environment.]

This uniformity is advantageous to early development in a small plain, because of the juxtaposition
of contrasted environments, but is stultifying to national life in an immense expanse of monotony
like that of Russia. Here sameness leaves its stamp on everything. Language is differentiated
with only two dialects, that of the Great Russians of the north and the Little Russians of
the southern steppes, who were so long exposed to Tartar influences. Most other languages of
Europe, though confined to much smaller areas, show far greater diversity.[1042] While the
Russian of Kazan or Archangel can converse readily with the citizen of Riga or St. Petersburg,
Germans from highland Bavaria and Swabia are scarcely intelligible to Prussian and Mecklenberger.
And whereas Germany a few decades ago could count over a hundred different kinds of national
dress or Tracht, Great Russia alone, with six times the area, had only a single type with perhaps
a dozen slight variations. Leroy-Beaulieu comments upon this eternal sameness. "The cities
are all alike; so are the peasants, in looks, habits, in mode of life. In no country do people
resemble one another more; no other country is so free from political complexity, those oppositions
in type and character, which even yet we encounter in Italy and Spain, in France and Germany.
The nation is made in the likeness of the country; it shows the same unity, we might say the
same monotony, as the plains on which it dwells."

[Sidenote: Influence of soils in low plains.]

