TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES:

In this book, as well as using  to indicate the italic font, the = symbol has been used to
show text printed in smaller capital letters in the original printed version. Please see the
HTML version for a more accurate reproduction.

Bracketed words, such as [the?], were present in the original text. They were not added by
the transcriber.

Obvious printing errors were repaired; these changes are listed at the end of the text. In
ambiguous cases, the text has been left as it appears in the original book. In particular,
many mismatched quotation marks have not been changed.

LECTURES ON LANGUAGE,

AS PARTICULARLY CONNECTED WITH

ENGLISH GRAMMAR.

DESIGNED FOR THE USE OF TEACHERS AND ADVANCED LEARNERS.

BY WM. S. BALCH.

Silence is better than unmeaning words.--Pythagoras.

PROVIDENCE: B. CRANSTON & CO. 1838.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1838,

BY B. CRANSTON & CO.

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Rhode-Island.

                                        PROVIDENCE, Feb. 24, 1838.

TO WM. S. BALCH,

SIR--The undersigned, in behalf of the Young People's Institute, hasten to present to you the
following Resolutions, together with their personal thanks, for the Lectures you have delivered
before them, on the Philosophy of Language. The uncommon degree of interest, pleasure and profit,
with which you have been listened to, is conclusive evidence, that whoever possesses taste
and talents to comprehend and appreciate the philosophy of language, which you have so successfully
cultivated, cannot fail to attain a powerful influence over the minds of his audience. The
Committee respectfully request you to favor them with a copy of your Lectures for the Press.

                    Very respectfully,
                        Your most obedient servants,
                                            C. T. JAMES,
                                            E. F. MILLER,
                                            H. L. WEBSTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Resolved, That we have been highly entertained and greatly instructed by the Lectures of our
President, on the subject of Language; that we consider the principles he has advocated, immutably
true, exceedingly important, and capable of an easy adoption in the study of that important
branch of human knowledge.

Resolved, That we have long regretted the want of a system to explain the grammar of our vernacular
tongue, on plain, rational, and consistent principles, in accordance with philosophy and truth,
and in a way to be understood and practised by children and adults.

Resolved, That in our opinion, the manifold attempts which have been made, though doubtless
undertaken with the purest intentions, to simplify and make easy existing systems, have failed
entirely of their object, and tended only to perplex, rather than enlighten learners.

Resolved, That in our belief, the publication of these Lectures would meet the wants of the
community, and throw a flood of light upon this hitherto dark, and intricate, and yet exceedingly
interesting department of a common education, and thus prove of immense service to the present
and future generations.

Resolved, That Messrs. Charles T. James, Edward F. Miller, and Henry L. Webster, be a Committee
to wait on Rev. William S. Balch, and request the publication of his very interesting Course
of Lectures before this Institute.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                        PROVIDENCE, Feb. 25, 1838.

MESSRS. C. T. JAMES, E. F. MILLER, AND H. L. WEBSTER:

GENTLEMEN--Your letter, together with the Resolutions accompanying it, was duly and gratefully
received. It gives me no ordinary degree of pleasure to know that so deep an interest has been,
and still is, felt by the members of our Institute, as well as the public generally, on this
important subject; for it is one which concerns the happiness and welfare of our whole community;
but especially the rising generation.

The only recommendation of these Lectures is the subject of which they treat. They were written
in the space of a few weeks, and in the midst of an accumulation of engagements which almost
forbade the attempt. But presuming you will make all due allowances for whatever errors you
may discover in the style of composition, and regard the matter more than the manner, I consent
to their publication, hoping they will be of some service in the great cause of human improvement.

                    I am, gentlemen,
                        Very respectfully yours,
                                            WM. S. BALCH.

PREFACE.

There is no subject so deeply interesting and important to rational beings as the knowledge
of language, or one which presents a more direct and powerful claim upon all classes in the
community; for there is no other so closely interwoven with all the affairs of human life,
social, moral, political and religious. It forms a basis on which depends a vast portion of
the happiness of mankind, and deserves the first attention of every philanthropist.

Great difficulty has been experienced in the common method of explaining language, and grammar
has long been considered a dry, uninteresting, and tedious study, by nearly all the teachers
and scholars in the land. But it is to be presumed that the fault in this case, if there is
any, is to be sought for in the manner of teaching, rather than in the science itself; for
it would be unreasonable to suppose that a subject which occupies the earliest attention of
the parent, which is acquired at great expense of money, time, and thought, and is employed
from the cradle to the grave, in all our waking hours, can possibly be dull or unimportant,
if rightly explained.

Children have been required to learn verbal forms and changes, to look at the mere signs of
ideas, instead of the things represented by them. The consequence has been that the whole subject
has become uninteresting to all who do not possess a retentive verbal memory. The philosophy
of language, the sublime principles on which it depends for its existence and use, have not
been sufficiently regarded to render it delightful and profitable.

The humble attempt here made is designed to open the way for an exposition of language on truly
philosophical principles, which, when correctly explained, are abundantly simple and extensively
useful. With what success this point has been labored the reader will determine.

The author claims not the honor of entire originality. The principles here advanced have been
advocated, believed, and successfully practised. William S. Cardell, Esq., a bright star in
the firmament of American literature, reduced these principles to a system, which was taught
with triumphant success by Daniel H. Barnes, formerly of the New-York High School, one of the
most distinguished teachers who ever officiated in that high and responsible capacity in our
country. Both of these gentlemen, so eminently calculated to elevate the standard of education,
were summoned from the career of the most active usefulness, from the scenes they had labored
to brighten and beautify by the aid of their transcendant intellects, to unseen realities in
the world of spirits; where mind communes with mind, and soul mingles with soul, disenthraled
from error, and embosomed in the light and love of the Great Parent Intellect.

The author does not pretend to give a system of exposition in this work suited to the capacities
of small children. It is designed for advanced scholars, and is introductory to a system of
grammar which he has in preparation, which it is humbly hoped will be of some service in rendering
easy and correct the study of our vernacular language. But this book, it is thought, may be
successfully employed in the instruction of the higher classes in our schools, and will be
found an efficient aid to teachers in inculcating the sublime principles of which it treats.

These Lectures, as now presented to the public, it is believed, will be found to contain some
important information by which all may profit. The reader will bear in mind that they were
written for, and delivered before a popular audience, and published with very little time for
modification. This will be a sufficient apology for the mistakes which may occur, and for whatever
may have the appearance of severity, irony, or pleasantry, in the composition.

On the subject of Contractions much more might be said. But verbal criticisms are rather uninteresting
to a common audience; and hence the consideration of that matter was made more brief than was
at first intended. It will however be resumed and carried out at length in another work. The
hints given will enable the student to form a tolerable correct opinion of the use of most
of those words and phrases, which have long been passed over with little knowledge of their
meaning or importance.

The author is aware that the principles he has advocated are new and opposed to established
systems and the common method of inculcation. But the difficulties acknowledged on all hands
to exist, is a sufficient justification of this humble attempt. He will not be condemned for
his good intentions. All he asks is a patient and candid examination, a frank and honest approval
of what is true, and as honest a rejection of what is false. But he hopes the reader will avoid
a rash and precipitate conclusion, either for or against, lest he is compelled to do as the
author himself once did, approve what he had previously condemned.

With these remarks he enters the arena, and bares himself to receive the sentence of the public
voice.

CONTENTS.

LECTURE I.

GENERAL VIEW OF LANGUAGE.

Study of Language long considered difficult.--Its importance.--Errors in teaching.--Not understood
by Teachers.--Attachment to old systems.--Improvement preferable.--The subject important.--Its
advantages.--Principles laid down.--Orthography.--Etymology.--Syntax.-- Prosody.

LECTURE II.

THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF LANGUAGE.

General principles of Language.--Business of Grammar.--Children are Philosophers.--Things,
ideas, and words.--Actions.--Qualities of things.--Words without ideas.--Grammatical terms
inappropriate.-- Principles of Language permanent.--Errors in mental science.--Facts admit
of no change.--Complex ideas.--Ideas of qualities.--An example.--New ideas.--Unknown words.--Signs
without things signified.--Fixed laws regulate matter and mind.

LECTURE III.

WRITTEN AND SPOKEN LANGUAGE.

Principles never alter.--They should be known.--Grammar a most important branch of science.--Spoken
and written Language.--Idea of a thing.--How expressed.--An example.--Picture writing.--An
anecdote.--Ideas expressed by actions.--Principles of spoken and written Language.--Apply universally.--Two
examples.--English language.--Foreign words.--Words in science.--New words.--How formed.

LECTURE IV.

ON NOUNS.

Nouns defined.--Things.--Qualities of matter.--Mind.--Spiritual beings.--Qualities of mind.--How
learned.--Imaginary things.--Negation. --Names of actions.--Proper nouns.--Characteristic names.--Proper
nouns may become common.

LECTURE V.

ON NOUNS AND PRONOUNS.

Nouns in respect to persons.--Number.--Singular.--Plural.--How formed.--Foreign plurals.--Proper
names admit of plurals.--Gender.--No neuter.--In figurative language.--Errors.--Position or
case.--Agents.-- Objects.--Possessive case considered.--A definitive word.--Pronouns.-- One
kind.--Originally nouns.--Specifically applied.

LECTURE VI.

ON ADJECTIVES.

Definition of adjectives.--General character.--Derivation.--How understood.--Defining and describing.--Meaning
changes to suit the noun.--Too numerous.--Derived from nouns.--Nouns and verbs made from adjectives.--Foreign
adjectives.--A general list.--Difficult to be understood.--An example.--Often superfluous.--Derived
from verbs.--Participles.--Some prepositions.--Meaning unknown.--With.-- In.--Out.--Of.

LECTURE VII.

ON ADJECTIVES.

Adjectives.--How formed.--The syllable ly.--Formed from proper nouns. --The apostrophe and
letter s.--Derived from pronouns.--Articles.--A comes from an.--Indefinite.--The.--Meaning
of a and the.-- Murray's example.--That.--What.--"Pronoun adjectives."--Mon, ma.--Degrees of
comparison.--Secondary adjectives.--Prepositions admit of comparison.

LECTURE VIII.

ON VERBS.

Unpleasant to expose error.--Verbs defined.--Every thing acts.--Actor and object.--Laws.--Man.--Animals.--Vegetables.--Minerals.--Neutrality
degrading.--Nobody can explain a neuter verb.--One kind of verbs.--You must decide.--Importance
of teaching children the truth.--Active verbs.--Transitive verbs false.--Samples.--Neuter verbs
examined.--Sit.--Sleep.--Stand.--Lie.--Opinion of Mrs. W.--Anecdote.

LECTURE IX.

ON VERBS.

Neuter and intransitive.--Agents.--Objects.--No actions as such can be known distinct from
the agent.--Imaginary actions.--Actions known by their effects.--Examples.--Signs should guide
to things signified.-- Principles of action.--=Power=.--Animals.--Vegetables.--Minerals.--All
things act.--Magnetic needle.--=Cause=.--Explained.--First Cause.--=Means=.--Illustrated.--Sir
I. Newton's example.--These principles must be known.--=Relative= action.--Anecdote of Gallileo.

LECTURE X.

ON VERBS.

A philosophical axiom.--Manner of expressing action.--Things taken for granted.--Simple facts
must be known.--Must never deviate from the truth.--Every cause will have an effect.--An example
of an intransitive verb.--Objects expressed or implied.--All language eliptical.--Intransitive
verbs examined.--I run.--I walk.--To step.-- Birds fly.--It rains.--The fire burns.--The sun
shines.--To smile.--Eat and drink.--Miscellaneous examples.--Evils of false teaching.--A change
is demanded.--These principles apply universally.--Their importance.

LECTURE XI.

ON VERBS.

The verb =to be=.--Compounded of different radical words.--=Am=. --Defined.--The name of Deity.--Ei.--=Is=.--=Are=.--=Were=,
=was=.--=Be=.--A dialogue.--Examples.--Passive Verbs examined.--Cannot be in the present tense.--The
past participle is an adjective.

LECTURE XII.

ON VERBS.

=Mood=.--Indicative.--Imperative.--Infinitive.--Former distinctions.-- Subjunctive mood.--=Time=.--Past.--Present.--Future.--The
future explained.--How formed.--Mr. Murray's distinction of time.--Imperfect.-- Pluperfect.--Second
future.--How many tenses.--=Auxiliary Verbs=.--Will. --Shall.--May.--Must.--Can.--Do.--Have.

LECTURE XIII.

ON VERBS.

Person and number in the agent, not in the action.--Similarity of agents, actions, and objects.--Verbs
made from nouns.--Irregular verbs.--Some examples.--Regular Verbs.--Ed.--Ing.--Conjugation
of verbs.--To love.--To have.--To be.--The indicative mood varied.--A whole sentence may be
agent or object.--Imperative mood.--Infinitive mood.--Is always future.

LECTURE XIV.

ON CONTRACTIONS.

A temporary expedient.--Words not understood.--All words must have a meaning.--Their formation.--Changes
of meaning and form.--Should be observed.--=Adverbs=.--Ending in ly.--Examples.--Ago.--Astray.--Awake.
--Asleep.--Then, when.--There, where, here.--While, till.--Whether, together.--Ever, never,
whenever, etc.--Oft.--Hence.--Perhaps.--Not. --Or.--Nor.--Than.--As.--So.--Conjunctions.--Rule
18.--If.--But.--Tho. --Yet.

LECTURES ON LANGUAGE.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,

It is proposed to commence, this evening, a course of Lectures on the Grammar of the English
Language. I am aware of the difficulties attending this subject, occasioned not so much by
any fault in itself, as by the thousand and one methods adopted to teach it, the multiplicity
of books pretending to "simplify" it, and the vast contrariety of opinion entertained by those
who profess to be its masters. By many it has been considered a needless affair, an unnecessary
appendage to a common education; by others, altogether beyond the reach of common capacities;
and by all, cold, lifeless, and uninteresting, full of doubts and perplexities, where the wisest
have differed, and the firmest often changed opinions.

All this difficulty originates, I apprehend, in the wrong view that is taken of the subject.
The most beautiful landscape may appear at great disadvantage, if viewed from an unfavorable
position. I would be slow to believe that the means on which depends the whole business of
the community, the study of the sciences, all improvement upon the past, the history of all
nations in all ages of the world, social intercourse, oral or written, and, in a great measure,
the knowledge of God, and the hopes of immortality, can be either unworthy of study, or, if
rightly explained, uninteresting in the acquisition. In fact, on the principles I am about
to advocate, I have seen the deepest interest manifested, from the small child to the grey-headed
sire, from the mere novice to the statesman and philosopher, and all alike seemed to be edified
and improved by the attention bestowed upon the subject.

I confess, however, that with the mention of grammar, an association of ideas are called up
by no means agreeable. The mind involuntarily reverts to the days of childhood, when we were
compelled, at the risk of our bodily safety, to commit to memory a set of arbitrary rules,
which we could neither understand nor apply in the correct use of language. Formerly it was
never dreamed that grammar depended on any higher authority than the books put into our hands.
And learners were not only dissuaded, but strictly forbidden to go beyond the limits set them
in the etymological and syntactical rules of the authors to whom they were referred. If a query
ever arose in their minds, and they modestly proposed a plain question as to the why and wherefore
things were thus, instead of giving an answer according to common sense, in a way to be understood,
the authorities were pondered over, till some rule or remark could be found which would apply,
and this settled the matter with "proof as strong as holy writ." In this way an end may be
put to the inquiry; but the thinking mind will hardly be satisfied with the mere opinion of
another, who has no evidence to afford, save the undisputed dignity of his station, or the
authority of books. This course is easily accounted for. Rather than expose his own ignorance,
the teacher quotes the printed ignorance of others, thinking, no doubt, that folly and nonsense
will appear better second-handed, than fresh from his own responsibility. Or else on the more
common score, that "misery loves company."

Teachers have not unfrequently found themselves placed in an unenviable position by the honest
inquiries of some thinking urchin, who has demanded why "one noun governs another in the possessive
case," as "master's slave;" why there are more tenses than three; what is meant by a neuter
verb, which "signifies neither action nor passion;" or an "intransitive verb," which expresses
the highest possible action, but terminates on no object; a cause without an effect; why that
is sometimes a pronoun, sometimes an adjective, and not unfrequently a conjunction, &c. &c.
They may have succeeded, by dint of official authority, in silencing such inquiries, but they
have failed to give a satisfactory answer to the questions proposed.

Long received opinions may, in some cases, become law, pleading no other reason than antiquity.
But this is an age of investigation, which demands the most lucid and unequivocal proof of
the point assumed. The dogmatism of the schoolmen will no longer satisfy. The dark ages of
mental servility are passing away. The day light of science has long since dawned upon the
world, and the noon day of truth, reason, and virtue, will ere long be established on a firm
and immutable basis. The human mind, left free to investigate, will gradually advance onward
in the course of knowledge and goodness marked out by the Creator, till it attains to that
perfection which shall constitute its highest glory, its truest bliss.

You will perceive, at once, that our inquiries thro out these lectures will not be bounded
by what has been said or written on the subject. We take a wider range. We adopt no sentiment
because it is ancient or popular. We refer to no authority but what proves itself to be correct.
And we ask no one to adopt our opinions any farther than they agree with the fixed laws of
nature in the regulation of matter and thought, and apply in common practice among men.

Have we not a right to expect, in return, that you will be equally honest to yourselves and
the subject before us? So far as the errors of existing systems shall be exposed, will you
not reject them, and adopt whatever appears conclusively true and practically useful? Will
you, can you, be satisfied to adopt for yourselves and teach to others, systems of grammar,
for no other reason than because they are old, and claim the support of the learned and honorable?

Such a course, generally adopted, would give the ever-lasting quietus to all improvement. It
would be a practical adoption of the philosophy of the Dutchman, who was content to carry his
grist in one end of the sack and a stone to balance it in the other, assigning for a reason,
that his honored father had always done so before him. Who would be content to adopt the astrology
of the ancients, in preferance to astronomy as now taught, because the latter is more modern?
Who would spend three years in transcribing a copy of the Bible, when a better could be obtained
for one dollar, because manuscripts were thus procured in former times? What lady would prefer
to take her cards, wheel, and loom, and spend a month or two in manufacturing for herself a
dress, when a better could be earned in half the time, merely because her respected grandmother
did so before her? Who would go back a thousand years to find a model for society, rejecting
all improvements in the arts and sciences, because they are innovations, encroachments upon
the opinions and practices of learned and honorable men?

I can not believe there is a person in this respected audience whose mind is in such voluntary
slavery as to induce the adoption of such a course. I see before me minds which sparkle in
every look, and thoughts which are ever active, to acquire what is true, and adopt what is
useful. And I flatter myself that the time spent in the investigation of the science of language
will not be unpleasant or unprofitable.

I feel the greater confidence from the consideration that your minds are yet untrammeled; not
but what many, probably most of you, have already studied the popular systems of grammar, and
understood them; if such a thing is possible; but because you have shown a disposition to learn,
by becoming members of this Institute, the object of which is the improvement of its members.

Let us therefore make an humble attempt, with all due candor and discretion, to enter upon
the inquiry before us with an unflinching determination to push our investigations beyond all
reasonable doubt, and never rest satisfied till we have conquered all conquerable obstacles,
and come into the possession of the light and liberty of truth.

The attempt here made will not be considered unimportant, by those who have known the difficulties
attending the study of language. If any course can be marked out to shorten the time tediously
spent in the acquisition of what is rarely attained--a thoro knowledge of language--a great
benefit will result to the community; children will save months and years to engage in other
useful attainments, and the high aspirations of the mind for truth and knowledge will not be
curbed in its first efforts to improve by a set of technical and arbitrary rules. They will
acquire a habit of thinking, of deep reflection; and never adopt, for fact, what appears unreasonable
or inconsistent, merely because great or good men have said it is so. They will feel an independence
of their own, and adopt a course of investigation which cannot fail of the most important consequences.
It is not the saving of time, however, for which we propose a change in the system of teaching
language. In this respect, it is the study of one's life. New facts are constantly developing
themselves, new combinations of ideas and words are discovered, and new beauties presented
at every advancing step. It is to acquire a knowledge of correct principles, to induce a habit
of correct thinking, a freedom of investigation, and at that age when the character and language
of life are forming. It is, in short, to exhibit before you truth of the greatest practical
importance, not only to you, but to generations yet unborn, in the most essential affairs of
human life, that I have broached the hated subject of grammar, and undertaken to reflect light
upon this hitherto dark and disagreeable subject.

With a brief sketch of the outlines of language, as based on the fixed laws of nature, and
the agreement of those who employ it, I shall conclude the present lecture.

We shall consider all language as governed by the invariable laws of nature, and as depending
on the conventional regulations of men.

Words are the signs of ideas. Ideas are the impressions of things. Hence, in all our attempts
to investigate the important principles of language, we shall employ the sign as the means
of coming at the thing signified.

Language has usually been considered under four divisions, viz.: Orthography, Etymology, Syntax,
and Prosody.

Orthography is right spelling; the combination of certain letters into words in such a manner
as to agree with the spoken words used to denote an idea. We shall not labor this point, altho
we conceive a great improvement might be effected in this department of learning. My only wish
is to select from all the forms of spelling, the most simple and consistent. Constant changes
are taking place in the method of making words, and we would not refuse to cast in our mite
to make the standard more correct and easy. We would prune off by degrees all unnecessary appendages,
as unsounded or italic letters, and write out words so as to be capable of a distinct pronunciation.
But this change must be gradually effected. From the spelling adopted two centuries ago, a
wonderful improvement has taken place. And we have not yet gone beyond the possibility of improvement.
Let us not be too sensitive on this point, nor too tenacious of old forms. Most of our dictionaries
differ in many respects in regard to the true system of orthography, and our true course is
to adopt every improvement which is offered. Thro out this work we shall spell some words different
from what is customary, but intend not, thereby, to incur the ignominy of bad spellers. Let
small improvements be adopted, and our language may soon be redeemed from the difficulties
which have perplexed beginners in their first attempts to convey ideas by written words.[1]

In that department of language denominated Etymology, we shall contend that all words are reducible
to two general classes, nouns and verbs; or, things and actions. We shall, however, admit of
subdivisions, and treat of pronouns, adjectives, and contractions. We shall contend for only
two cases of nouns, one kind of pronouns, one kind of verbs, that all are active; three modes,
and as many tenses; that articles, adverbs, prepositions, conjunctions, and interjections,
have no distinctive character, no existence, in fact, to warrant a "local habitation or a name."

In the composition of sentences, a few general rules of Syntax may be given; but the principal
object to be obtained, is the possession of correct ideas derived from a knowledge of things,
and the most approved words to express them; the combination of words in a sentence will readily
enough follow.

Prosody relates to the quantity of syllables, rules of accent and pronunciation, and the arrangement
of syllables and words so as to produce harmony. It applies specially to versification. As
our object is not to make poets, who, it is said, "are born, and not made," but to teach the
true principles of language, we shall give no attention to this finishing stroke of composition.

In our next we shall lay before you the principles upon which all language depends, and the
process by which its use is to be acquired.

All language depends on two general principles.

First. The fixed and unvarying laws of nature which regulate matter and mind.

Second. The agreement of those who use it.

In accordance with these principles all language must be explained. It is not only needless
but impossible for us to deviate from them. They remain the same in all ages and in all countries.
It should be the object of the grammarian, and of all who employ language in the expression
of ideas, to become intimately acquainted with their use.

It is the business of grammar to explain, not only verbal language, but also the sublime principles
upon which all written or spoken language depends. It forms an important part of physical and
mental science, which, correctly explained, is abundantly simple and extensively useful in
its application to the affairs of human life and the promotion of human enjoyment.

It will not be contended that we are assuming a position beyond the capacities of learners,
that the course here adopted is too philosophic. Such is not the fact. Children are philosophers
by nature. All their ideas are derived from things as presented to their observations. No mother
learns her child to lisp the name of a thing which has no being, but she chooses objects with
which it is most familiar, and which are most constantly before it; such as father, mother,
brother, sister.

She constantly points to the object named, that a distinct impression may be made upon its
mind, and the thing signified, the idea of the thing, and the name which represents it, are
all inseparably associated together. If the father is absent, the child may think of him from
the idea or impression which his person and affection has produced in the mind. If the mother
pronounces his name with which it has become familiar, the child will start, look about for
the object, or thing signified by the name, father, and not being able to discover him, will
settle down contented with the idea of him deeply impressed on the mind, and as distinctly
understood as if the father was present in person. So with every thing else.

Again, after the child has become familiar with the name of the being called father; the name,
idea and object itself being intimately associated the mother will next begin to teach it another
lesson; following most undeviatingly the course which nature and true philosophy mark out.
The father comes and goes, is present or absent. She says on his return, father come, and the
little one looks round to see the thing signified by the word father, the idea of which is
distinctly impressed on the mind, and which it now sees present before it. But this loved object
has not always been here. It had looked round and called for the father. But the mother had
told it he was gone. Father gone, father come, is her language, and here the child begins to
learn ideas of actions. Of this it had, at first, no notion whatever, and never thought of
the father except when his person was present before it, for no impressions had been distinctly
made upon the mind which could be called up by a sound of which it could have no conceptions
whatever. Now that it has advanced so far, the idea of the father is retained, even tho he
is himself absent, and the child begins to associate the notion of coming and going with his
presence or absence. Following out this course the mind becomes acquainted with things and
actions, or the changes which things undergo.

Next, the mother begins to learn her offspring the distinction and qualities of things. When
the little sister comes to it in innocent playfulness the mother says, "good sister," and with
the descriptive word good it soon begins to associate the quality expressed by the affectionate
regard, of its sister. But when that sister strikes the child, or pesters it in any way, the
mother says "naughty sister," "bad sister." It soon comprehends the descriptive words, good
and bad, and along with them carries the association of ideas which such conduct produces.
In the same way it learns to distinguish the difference between great and small, cold and hot,
hard and soft.

In this manner the child becomes acquainted with the use of language. It first becomes acquainted
with things, the idea of which is left upon the mind, or, more properly, the impression of
which, left on the mind, constitutes the idea; and a vocabulary of words are learned, which
represent these ideas, from which it may select those best calculated to express its meaning
whenever a conversation is had with another.

You will readily perceive the correctness of our first proposition, that all language depends
on the fixed and unerring laws of nature. Things exist. A knowledge of them produces ideas
in the mind, and sounds or signs are adopted as vehicles to convey these ideas from one to another.

It would be absurd and ridiculous to suppose that any person, however great, or learned, or
wise, could employ language correctly without a knowledge of the things expressed by that language.
No matter how chaste his words, how lofty his phrases, how sweet the intonations, or mellow
the accents. It would avail him nothing if ideas were not represented thereby. It would all
be an unknown tongue to the hearer or reader. It would not be like the loud rolling thunder,
for that tells the wondrous power of God. It would not be like the soft zephyrs of evening,
the radiance of the sun, the twinkling of the stars; for they speak the intelligible language
of sublimity itself, and tell of the kindness and protection of our Father who is in heaven.
It would not be like the sweet notes of the choral songsters of the grove, for they warble
hymns of gratitude to God; not like the boding of the distant owl, for that tells the profound
solemnity of night; not like the hungry lion roaring for his prey, for that tells of death
and plunder; not like the distant notes of the clarion, for that tells of blood and carnage,
of tears and anguish, of widowhood and orphanage. It can be compared to nothing but a Babel
of confusion in which their own folly is worse confounded. And yet, I am sorry to say it, the
languages of all ages and nations have been too frequently perverted, and compiled into a heterogeneous
mass of abstruse, metaphysical volumes, whose only recommendation is the elegant bindings in
which they are enclosed.

And grammars themselves, whose pretended object is to teach the rules of speaking and writing
correctly, form but a miserable exception to this sweeping remark. I defy any grammarian, author,
or teacher of the numberless systems, which come, like the frogs of Egypt, all of one genus,
to cover the land, to give a reasonable explanation of even the terms they employ to define
their meaning, if indeed, meaning they have. What is meant by an "in-definite article," a dis-junctive
con-junction, an ad-verb which qualifies an adjective, and "sometimes another ad-verb?" Such
"parts of speech" have no existence in fact, and their adoption in rules of grammar, have been
found exceedingly mischievous and perplexing. "Adverbs and conjunctions," and "adverbial phrases,"
and "conjunctive expressions," may serve as common sewers for a large and most useful class
of words, which the teachers of grammar and lexicographers have been unable to explain; but
learners will gain little information by being told that such is an adverbial phrase, and such,
a conjunctive expression. This is an easy method, I confess, a sort of wholesale traffic, in
parsing (passing) language, and may serve to cloak the ignorance of the teachers and makers
of grammars. But it will reflect little light on the principles of language, or prove very
efficient helps to "speak or write with propriety." Those who think, will demand the meaning
of these words, and the reason of their use. When that is ascertained, little difficulty will
be found in giving them a place in the company of respectable words. But I am digressing. More
shall be said upon this point in a future lecture, and in its proper place.

I was endeavoring to establish the position that all language depends upon permanent principles;
that words are the signs of ideas, and ideas are the impressions of things communicated to
the mind thro the medium of some one of the five senses. I think I have succeeded so far as
simple material things are concerned, to the satisfaction of all who have heard me. It may,
perhaps, be more difficult for me to explain the words employed to express complex ideas, and
things of immateriality, such as mind, and its attributes. But the rules previously adopted
will, I apprehend, apply with equal ease and correctness in this case; and we shall have cause
to admire the simple yet sublime foundation upon which the whole superstructure of language
is based.

In pursuing this investigation I shall endeavor to avoid all abstruse and metaphysical reasoning,
present no wild conjectures, or vain hypotheses; but confine myself to plain, common place
matter of fact. We have reason to rejoice that a wonderful improvement in the science and cultivation
of the mind has taken place in these last days; that we are no longer puzzled with the strange
phantoms, the wild speculations which occupied the giant minds of a Descartes, a Malebranch,
a Locke, a Reid, a Stewart, and hosts of others, whose shining talents would have qualified
them for the brightest ornaments of literature, real benefactors of mankind, had not their
education lead them into dark and metaphysical reasonings, a continued tissue of the wildest
vagaries, in which they became entangled, till, at length, they were entirely lost in the labyrinth
of their own conjectures.

The occasion of all their difficulty originated in an attempt to investigate the faculties
of the mind without any means of getting at it. They did not content themselves with an adoption
of the principles which lay at the foundation of all true philosophy, viz., that the facts
to be accounted for, do exist; that truth is eternal, and we are to become acquainted with
it by the means employed for its development. They quitted the world of materiality they inhabited,
refused to examine the development of mind as the effect of an existing cause; and at one bold
push, entered the world of thought, and made the unhallowed attempt to reason, a priori, concerning
things which can only be known by their manifestations. But they soon found themselves in a
strange land, confused with sights and sounds unknown, in the explanation of which they, of
course, choose terms as unintelligible to their readers, as the ideal realities were to them.
This course, adopted by Aristotle, has been too closely followed by those who have come after
him.[2] But a new era has dawned upon the philosophy of the mind, and a corresponding change
in the method of inculcating the principles of language must follow.[3]

In all our investigations we must take things as we find them, and account for them as far
as we can. It would be a thankless task to attempt a change of principles in any thing. That
would be an encroachment of the Creator's rights. It belongs to mortals to use the things they
have as not abusing them; and to Deity to regulate the laws by which those things are governed.
And that man is the wisest, the truest philosopher, and brightest Christian, who acquaints
himself with those laws as they do exist in the regulation of matter and mind, in the promotion
of physical and moral enjoyment, and endeavors to conform to them in all his thoughts and actions.

From this apparent digression you will at once discover our object. We must not endeavor to
change the principles of language, but to understand and explain them; to ascertain, as far
as possible, the actions of the mind in obtaining ideas, and the use of language in expressing
them. We may not be able to make our sentiments understood; but if they are not, the fault
will originate in no obscurity in the facts themselves, but in our inability either to understand
them or the words employed in their expression. Having been in the habit of using words with
either no meaning or a wrong one, it may be difficult to comprehend the subject of which they
treat. A man may have a quantity of sulphur, charcoal, and nitre, but it is not until he learns
their properties and combinations that he can make gunpowder. Let us then adopt a careful and
independent course of reasoning, resolved to meddle with nothing we do not understand, and
to use no words until we know their meaning.

A complex idea is a combination of several simple ones, as a tree is made up of roots, a trunk,
branches, twigs, and leaves. And these again may be divided into the wood, the bark, the sap,
&c. Or we may employ the botanical terms, and enumerate its external and internal parts and
qualities; the whole anatomy and physiology, as well as variety and history of trees of that
species, and show its characteristic distinctions; for the mind receives a different impression
on looking at a maple, a birch, a poplar, a tamarisk, a sycamore, or hemlock. In this way complex
ideas are formed, distinct in their parts, but blended in a common whole; and, in conformity
with the law regulating language, words, sounds or signs, are employed to express the complex
whole, or each distinctive part. The same may be said of all things of like character. But
this idea I will illustrate more at large before the close of this lecture.

First impressions are produced by a view of material things, as we have already seen; and the
notion of action is obtained from a knowledge of the changes these things undergo. The idea
of quality and definition is produced by contrast and comparison. Children soon learn the difference
between a sweet apple and a sour one, a white rose and a red one, a hard seat and a soft one,
harmonious sounds and those that are discordant, a pleasant smell and one that is disagreeable.
As the mind advances, the application is varied, and they speak of a sweet rose, changing from
taste and sight to smell, of a sweet song, of a hard apple, &c. According to the qualities
thus learned, you may talk to them intelligibly of the sweetness of an apple, the color of
a rose, the hardness of iron, the harmony of sounds, the smell or scent of things which possess
that quality. As these agree or disagree with their comfort, they will call them good or bad,
and speak of the qualities of goodness and badness, as if possessed by the thing itself.

In this apparently indiscriminate use of words, the ideas remain distinct; and each sign or
object calls them up separately and associates them together, till, at length, in the single
object is associated all the ideas entertained of its size, qualities, relations, and affinities.

In this manner, after long, persevering toil, principles of thought are fixed, and a foundation
laid for the whole course of future thinking and speaking. The ideas become less simple and
distinct. Just as fast as the mind advances in the knowledge of things, language keeps pace
with the ideas, and even goes beyond them, so that in process of time a single term will not
unfrequently represent a complexity of ideas, one of which will signify a whole combination
of things.

On the other hand, there are many instances where the single declaration of a fact may convey
to the untutored mind, a single thought or nearly so, when the better cultivated will take
into the account the whole process by which it is effected. To illustrate: a man killed a deer.
Here the boy would see and imagine more than he is yet fully able to comprehend. He will see
the obvious fact that the man levels his musket, the gun goes off with a loud report, and the
deer falls and dies. How this is all produced he does not understand, but knowing the fact
he asserts the single truth--the man killed the deer. As the child advances, he will learn
that the sentence conveys to the mind more than he at first perceived. He now understands how
it was accomplished. The man had a gun. Then he must go back to the gunsmith and see how it
was made, thence back to the iron taken from its bed, and wrought into bars; all the processes
by which it is brought into the shape of a gun, the tools and machinery employed; the wood
for the stock, its quality and production; the size, form and color of the lock, the principle
upon which it moves; the flint, the effect produced by a collision with the steel, or a percussion
cap, and its composition; till he finds a single gun in the hands of a man. The man is present
with this gun. The motives which brought him here; the movements of his limbs, regulated by
the determinations of the mind, and a thousand other such thoughts, might be taken into the
account. Then the deer, his size, form, color, manner of living, next may claim a passing thought.
But I need not enlarge. Here they both stand. The man has just seen the deer. As quick as thought
his eye passes over the ground, sees the prey is within proper distance, takes aim, pulls the
trigger, that loosens a spring, which forces the flint against the steel; this produces a spark,
which ignites the charcoal, and the sulphur and nitre combined, explode and force the wad,
which forces the ball from the gun, and is borne thro the air till it reaches the deer, enters
his body by displacing the skin and flesh, deranges the animal functions, and death ensues.
The whole and much more is expressed in the single phrase, "a man killed a deer."

It would be needless for me to stop here, and examine all the operations of the mind in coming
at this state of knowledge. That is not the object of the present work. Such a duty belongs
to another treatise, which may some day be undertaken, on logic and the science of the mind.
The hint here given will enable you to perceive how the mind expands, and how language keeps
pace with every advancing step, and, also, how combinations are made from simple things, as
a house is made of timber, boards, shingles, nails, and paints; or of bricks, stone, and mortar;
as the case may be, and when completed, a single term may express the idea, and you speak of
a wood, or a brick house. Following this suggestion, by tracing the operations of the mind
in the young child, or your own, very minutely, in the acquisition of any knowledge before
wholly unknown to you, as a new language, or a new science; botany, mineralogy, chemistry,
or phrenology; you will readily discover how the mind receives new impressions of things, and
a new vocabulary is adopted to express the ideas formed of plants, minerals, chemical properties,
and the development of the capacities of the mind as depending on material organs; how these
things are changed and combined; and how their existence and qualities, changes and combinations,
are expressed by words, to be retained, or conveyed to other minds.

But suppose you talk to a person wholly unacquainted with these things, will he understand
you? Talk to him of stamens, pistils, calyxes; of monandria, diandria, triandria; of gypsum,
talc, calcareous spar, quartz, topaz, mica, garnet, pyrites, hornblende, augite, actynolite;
of hexahedral, prismatic, rhomboidal, dodecahedral; of acids and alkalies; of oxygen, hydrogen,
nitrogen and carbon; of the configuration of the brain, and its relative powers; do all this,
and what will he know of your meaning? So of all science. Words are to be understood from the
things they are employed to represent. You may as well talk to a man in the hebrew, chinese,
or choctaw languages, as in our own, if he does not know what is signified by the words selected
as the medium of thought.

Your language may be most pure, perfect, full of meaning, but you cannot make yourself understood
till your hearers can look thro your signs to the things signified. You may as well present
before them a picture of nothing.

The great fault in the popular system of education is easily accounted for, particularly in
reference to language. Children are taught to study signs without looking at the thing signified.
In this way they are mere copyists, and the mind can never expand so as to make them independent,
original thinkers. In fact, they can, in this way, never learn to reason well or employ language
correctly; no more than a painter can be successful in his art, by merely looking at the pictures
of others without having ever seen the originals. A good artist is a close observer of nature.
So children should be left free to examine and reflect, and the signs will then serve their
proper use--the means of acquiring the knowledge of things. In vain you may give a scholar
a knowledge of the Hebrew, Greek, or Latin, learn him to translate with rapidity or speak our
own language fluently. If he has not thereby learned the knowledge of things signified by such
language, he is, in principle, advanced no farther than the parrot which says "pretty poll,
pretty poll."

I am happy, however, in the consideration that a valuable change is taking place in this respect.
Geography is no longer taught on the old systems, but maps are given to represent more vividly
land and water, rivers, islands, and mountains. The study of arithmetic, chemistry, and nearly
all the sciences have been materially improved within a few years. Grammar alone remains in
quiet possession of its unquestioned authority. Its nine "parts of speech," its three genders,
its three cases, its half dozen kinds of pronouns, and as many moods and tenses, have rarely
been disquieted. A host of book makers have fondled around them, but few have dared molest
them, finding them so snugly ensconced under the sanctity of age, and the venerated opinions
of learned and good men. Of the numberless attempts to simplify grammar, what has been the
success? Wherein do modern "simplifiers" differ from Murray? and he was only a compiler! They
have all discovered his errors. But who has corrected them? They have all deviated somewhat
from his manner. But what is that but saying, that with all his grammatical knowledge, he could
not explain his own meaning?

All the trouble originates in this; the rules of grammar have not been sought for where they
are only to be found, in the laws that govern matter and thought. Arbitrary rules have been
adopted which will never apply in practice, except in special cases, and the attempt to bind
language down to them is as absurd as to undertake to chain thought, or stop the waters of
Niagara with a straw. Language will go on, and keep pace with the mind, and grammar should
explain it so as to be correctly understood.

I wish you to keep these principles distinctly in view all thro my remarks, that you may challenge
every position I assume till proved to be correct--till you distinctly understand it and definite
impressions are made upon your minds. In this way you will discover a beauty and perfection
in language before unknown; its rules will be found few and simple, holding with most unyielding
tenacity to the sublime principles upon which they depend; and you will have reason to admire
the works and adore the character of the great Parent Intellect, whose presence and protection
pervade all his works and regulate the laws of matter and mind. You will feel yourselves involuntarily
filled with sentiments of gratitude for the gift of mind, its affections, powers, and means
of operation and communication, and resolved more than ever to employ these faculties in human
improvement and the advancement of general happiness.

We now come to take a nearer view of language as generally understood by grammar. But we shall
have no occasion to depart from the principles already advanced, for there is existing in practice
nothing which may not be accounted for in theory; as there can be no effect without an efficient
cause to produce it.

We may, however, long remain ignorant of the true explanation of the principles involved; but
the fault is ours, and not in the things themselves. The earth moved with as much grandeur
and precision around its axis and in its orbit before the days of Gallileo Gallilei, when philosophers
believed it flat and stationary, as it has done since. So the great principles on which depends
the existence and use of all language are permanent, and may be correctly employed by those
who have never examined them; but this does not prove that to be ignorant is better than to
be wise. We may have taken food all our days without knowing much of the process by which it
is converted into nourishment and incorporated into our bodies, without ever having heard of
delutition chymification, chylification, or even digestion, as a whole; but this is far from
convincing me that the knowledge of these things is unimportant, or that ignorance of them
is not the cause of much disease and suffering among mankind. And it is, or should be, the
business of the physiologist to explain these things, and show the great practical benefit
resulting from a general knowledge of them. So the grammarian should act as a sort of physiologist
of language. He should analyze all its parts and show how it is framed together to constitute
a perfect whole.

Instead of exacting of you a blind submission to a set of technical expressions, and arbitrary
rules, I most urgently exhort you to continue, with unremitting assiduity, your inquiries into
the reason and propriety of the positions which may be taken. It is the business of philosophy,
not to meddle with things to direct how they should be, but to account for them and their properties
and relations as they are. So it is the business of grammar to explain language as it exists
in use, and exhibit the reason why it is used thus, and what principles must be observed to
employ it correctly in speaking and writing. This method is adopted to carry out the principles
already established, and show their adaptation to the wants of the community, and how they
may be correctly and successfully employed. Grammar considered in this light forms a department
in the science of the mind by no means unimportant. And it can not fail to be deeply interesting
to all who would employ it in the business, social, literary, moral, or religious concerns
of life. Those who have thoughts to communicate, or desire an acquaintance with the minds of
others, can not be indifferent to the means on which such intercourse depends. I am convinced,
therefore, that you will give me your most profound attention as I pursue the subject of the
present lecture somewhat in detail. And I hope you will not consider me tedious or unnecessarily
prolix in my remarks.

I will not be particular in my remarks upon the changes of spoken and written language, altho
that topic of itself, in the different sounds and signs employed in different ages and by different
nations to express the same idea, would form a most interesting theme for several lectures.
But that work must be reserved for a future occasion. You are all acquainted with the signs,
written and spoken, which are employed in our language as vehicles (some of them like omnibusses)
of thought to carry ideas from one mind to another. Some of you doubtless are acquainted with
the application of this fact in other languages. In other words, you know how to sound the
name of a thing, how to describe its properties as far as you understand them, and its attitudes
or changes. This you can do by vocal sounds, or written, or printed signs.

On the other hand, you can receive a similar impression by hearing the description of another,
or by seeing it written or printed. But here you will bear in mind the fact that the word,
spoken or written, is but the sign of the idea derived from the thing signified. For example:
Here is an apple. I do not now speak of its composition, the skin, the pulp, &c.; nor of its
qualities, whether sour, or sweet, or bitter, good or bad, great or small, long or short, round
or flat, red, or white, or yellow. I speak of a single thing--an apple. Here it is, present
before you. Look at it. It is now removed. You do not see it. Your minds are occupied with
something else, in looking at that organ, or this representation of Solomon's temple, or, perhaps,
lingering in melancholy review of your old systems of grammar thro which you plodded at a tedious
rate, goaded on by the stimulus of the ferule, or the fear of being called ignorant. From that
unhappy reverie I recal your minds, by saying apple. An apple? where? There is none in sight.
No; but you have distinct recollections of a single object I just now held before you. You
see it, mentally, and were you painters you might paint its likeness. What has brought this
object so vividly before you? The single sound apple. This sound has called up the idea produced
in your mind on looking at this object which I now again present before you. Here is the thing
represented--the apple. Again I lay it aside, and commence a conversation with you on the varieties
of apples, the form, color, flavor, manner of production, their difference from other fruit,
where found, when, and by whom. Here! look again. What do you see? A-P-P-L-E--Apple. What is
that? The representation of the idea produced in the mind by a certain object you saw a little
while ago. Here then you have the spoken and written signs of this single object I now again
present to your vision. This idea may also be called up by the sense of feeling, smelling,
or tasting, under certain restrictions. Here you would be no more liable to be mistaken than
by seeing. We can indeed imagine things which would feel, and smell, and taste, and look some
like an apple, but it falls to the lot of more abstruse reasoners to make their suppositions,
and then account for them--to imagine things, and then treat of them as realities. We are content
with the knowledge of things as they do exist, and think there is little danger of mistaking
a potato for an apple, or a squash for a pear. Tho in the dark we may lay hold of the Frenchman's
pomme de terre--apple of the earth, the first bite will satisfy us of our mistake if we are
not too metaphysical.

The same idea may be called up in your minds by a picture of the apple presented to your sight.
On this ground the picture writing of the ancients may be accounted for; and after that, the
hieroglyphics of Egypt and other countries, which was but a step from picture writing towards
the use of the alphabet. But these signs or vehicles for the conveyance or transmission of
their thoughts, compared with the present perfect state of language, were as aukward and uncomly
as the carriages employed for the conveyance of their bodies were compared with those now in
use. They were like ox carts drawn by mules, compared with the most splendid barouches drawn
by elegant dapple-greys.

A similar mode would be adopted now by those unacquainted with alphabetical writing. It was
so with the merchant who could not write. He sold his neighbor a grindstone, on trust. Lest
he should forget it--lest the idea of it should be obliterated from the mind--he, in the absence
of his clerk, took his book and a pen and drew out a round picture to represent it. Some months
after, he dunned his neighbor for his pay for a cheese. "I have bought no cheese of you," was
the reply. Yes, you have, for I have it charged. "You must be mistaken, for I never bought
a cheese. We always make our own." How then should I have one charged to you? "I cannot tell.
I have never had any thing here on credit except a grindstone." Ah! that's it, that's it, only
I forgot to make a hole through it!"

Ideas may also be exchanged by actions. This is the first and strongest language of nature.
It may be employed, when words have failed, in the most effectual manner. The angry man, choked
with rage, unable to speak, tells the violent passions, burning in his bosom, in a language
which can not be mistaken. The actions of a friend are a surer test of friendship than all
the honied words he may utter. Actions speak louder than words. The first impressions of maternal
affection are produced in the infant mind by the soothing attentions of the mother. In the
same way we may understand the language of the deaf and dumb. Certain motions express certain
ideas. These being duly arranged and conformed to our alphabetic signs, and well understood,
the pupil may become acquainted with book knowledge as well as we. They go by sight and not
by sound. A different method is adopted with the blind. Letters with them are so arranged that
they can feel them. The signs thus felt correspond with the sounds they hear. Here they must
stop. They cannot see to describe. Those who are so unfortunate as to be blind and deaf, can
have but a faint knowledge of language, or the ideas of others.

On similar principles we may explain the pantomime plays sometimes performed, where the most
entertaining scenes of love and murder are represented, but not a word spoken.

Three things are always to be born in mind in the use and study of all language: 1st, the thing
signified; 2d, the idea of the thing; and 3d, the word or sign chosen to represent it.

Things exist.

Thinking beings conceive ideas of things.

Those who employ language adopt sounds or signs to convey those ideas to others.

On these obvious principles rest the whole superstructure of all language, spoken or written.
Objects are presented to the mind, impressions are there made, which, retained, constitute
the idea, and, by agreement, certain words are employed as the future signs or representations
of those ideas. If we saw an object in early life and knew its name, the mention of that name
will recal afresh the idea which had long lain dormant in the memory, (if I may so speak,)
and we can converse about it as correctly as when we first saw it.

These principles, I have said, hold good in all languages. Proof of this may not improperly
be offered here, provided it be not too prolix. I will endeavor to be brief.

In an open area of sufficient dimensions is congregated a delegation from every language under
heaven. All are so arranged as to face a common center. A white horse is led into that spot
and all look at the living animal which stands before them. The same impression must be made
on all minds so far as a single animal is concerned. But as the whole is made up of parts,
so their minds will soon diverge from a single idea, and one will think of his size, compared
with other horses; another of his form; another of his color. Some will think of his noble
appearance, others of his ability to travel, or (in jockey phrase) his speed. The farrier will
look for his blemishes, to see if he is sound, and the jockey at his teeth, to guess at his
age. The anatomist will, in thought, dissect him into parts and see every bone, sinew, cartilage,
blood vessel, his stomach, lungs, liver, heart, entrails; every part will be laid open; and
while the thoughtless urchin sees a single object--a white horse--others will, at a single
glance, read volumes of instruction. Oh! the importance of knowledge! how little is it regarded!
What funds of instruction might be gathered from the lessons every where presented to the mind!

One impression would be made on all minds in reference to the single tangible object before
them; no matter how learned or ignorant. There stands an animal obvious to all. Let him be
removed out of sight, and a very exact picture of him suspended in his place. All again agree.
Here then is the proof of our first general principle, viz. all language depends on the fixed
and unvarying laws of nature.

Let the picture be removed and a man step forth and pronounce the word, ippos. The Greek starts
up and says, "Yes, it is so." The rest do not comprehend him. He then writes out distinctly,
[Greek: IPPOS]. They are in the dark as to the meaning. They know not whether a horse, a man,
or a goose is named. All the Greeks, however, understand the meaning the same as when the horse
or picture was before them, for they had agreed that ippos should represent the idea of that
animal.

Forth steps another, and pronounces the word cheval. Every Frenchman is aroused: Oui, monsieur?
Yes, sir. Comprenez vous? Do you understand? he says to the rest. But they are dumb. He then
writes C-H-E-V-A-L. All are as ignorant as before, save the Frenchmen who had agreed that cheval
should be the name for horse.

Next go yourself, thinking all will understand you, and say, horse; but, lo! none unacquainted
with your language are the wiser for the sound you utter, or the sign you suspended before
them; save, perhaps, a little old Saxon, who, at first looks deceived by the similarity of
sound, but, seeing the sign, is as demure as ever, for he omits the e, and pronounces it shorter
than we do, more like a yorkshire man. But why are you not understood? Because others have
not entered into an agreement with you that h-o-r-s-e, spoken or written, shall represent that
animal.

Take another example. Place the living animal called man before them. Less trouble will be
found in this case than in the former, for there is a nearer agreement than before in regard
to the signs which shall be employed to express the idea. This word occurs with very little
variation in the modern languages, derived undoubtedly from the Teutonic, with a little change
in the spelling, as Saxon mann or mon, Gothic manna, German, Danish, Dutch, Swedish and Icelandic
like ours. In the south of Europe, however, this word varies as well as others.

Our language is derived more directly from the old Saxon than from any other, but has a great
similarity to the French and Latin, and a kind of cousin-german to all the languages of Europe,
ancient and modern. Ours, indeed, is a compound from most other languages, retaining some of
their beauties and many of their defects. We can boast little distinctive character of our
own. As England was possessed by different nations at different periods, so different dialects
were introduced, and we can trace our language to as many sources, German, Danish, Saxon, French,
and Roman, which were the different nations amalgamated into the British empire. We retain
little of the real old english--few words which may not be traced to a foreign extraction.
Different people settling in a country would of course carry their ideas and manner of expressing
them; and from the whole compound a general agreement would, in process of time, take place,
and a uniform language be established. Such is the origin and condition of our language, as
well as every other modern tongue of which we have any knowledge.

There is one practice of which our savans are guilty, at which I do most seriously demur--the
extravagant introduction of exotic words into our vocabulary, apparently for no other object
than to swell the size of a dictionary, and boast of having found out and defined thousands
of words more than any body else. A mania seems to have seized our lexicographers, so that
they have forsaken the good old style of "plainness of speech," and are flourishing and brandishing
about in a cloud of verbiage as though the whole end of instruction was to teach loquacity.
And some of our popular writers and speakers have caught the infection, and flourish in borrowed
garments, prizing themselves most highly when they use words and phrases which no body can
understand.

I will not contend that in the advancement of the arts and sciences it may not be proper to
introduce foreign terms as the mean of conveying a knowledge of those improvements to others.
It is better than to coin new words, inasmuch as they are generally adopted by all modern nations.
In this way all languages are approximating together; and when the light of truth, science,
and religion, has fully shone on all the nations, we may hope one language will be spoken,
and the promise be fulfilled, that God has "turned unto the people a pure language, that they
may call upon the name of the Lord, to serve him with one consent."

New ideas are formed like new inventions. Established principles are employed in a new combination,
so as to produce a new manifestation. Words are chosen as nearly allied to former ideas as
possible, to express or represent this new combination. Thus, Fulton applied steam power to
navigation. A new idea was produced. A boat was seen passing along the waters without the aid
of wind or tide. Instead of coining a new word to express the whole, a word which nobody would
understand, two old ones were combined, and "steamboat" became the sign to represent the idea
of the thing beheld. So with rail-road, cotton-mill, and gun-powder. In the same way we may
account for most words employed in science, although in that case we are more dependant on
foreign languages, in as much as a large portion of our knowledge is derived from them. But
we may account for them on the same principle as above. Phrenology is a compound of two greek
words, and means the science or knowledge of the mind. So of geology, mineralogy, &c. But when
improvements are made by those who speak the english, words in our own language are employed
and used not only by ourselves, but also by those nations who profit by our investigations.

I trust I have now said enough on the general principles of language as applied to things.
In the next lecture I will come down to a sort of bird's eye view of grammar. But my soul abhors
arbitrary rules so devoutly, I can make no promises how long I will continue in close communion
with set forms of speech. I love to wander too well to remain confined to one spot, narrowed
up in the limits fixed by others. Freedom is the empire of the mind; it abjures all fetters,
all slavery. It kneels at the altar of virtue and worships at the shrine of truth. No obstacles
should be thrown in the way of its progress. No limits should be set to it but those of the
Almighty.

Your attention is, this evening, invited to the first divisions of words, called Nouns. This
is a most important class, and as such deserves our particular notice.

    Nouns are the names of things.

The word noun is derived from the Latin nomen, French nom. It means name. Hence the definition
above given.

In grammar it is employed to distinguish that class of words which name things, or stand as
signs or representatives of things.

We use the word thing in its broadest sense, including every possible entity; every being,
or thing, animate or inanimate, material or immaterial, real or imaginary, physical, moral,
or intellectual. It is the noun of the Saxon thincan or thingian, to think; and is used to
express every conceivable object of thought, in whatever form or manner presented to the human
mind.

Every word employed to designate things, or name them, is to be ranked in the class called
nouns, or names. You have only to determine whether a word is used thus, to learn whether it
belongs to this or some other class of words. Here let me repeat:

    1. Things exist.
    2. We conceive ideas of things.
    3. We use sounds or signs to communicate these ideas to others.
    4. We denominate the class of words thus used, nouns.

Perhaps I ought to stop here, or pass to another topic. But as these lectures are intended
to be so plain that all can understand my meaning, I must indulge in a few more remarks before
advancing farther.

In addition to individual, tangible objects, we conceive ideas of the qualities of things,
and give names to such qualities, which become nouns. Thus, the hardness of iron, the heat
of fire, the color of a rose, the bitterness of gall, the error of grammars. The following
may serve to make my views more plain. Take two tumblers, the one half filled with water, the
other with milk; mix them together. You can now talk of the milk in the water, or the water
in the milk. Your ideas are distinct, tho the objects are so intimately blended, that they
can not be separated. So with the qualities of things.

We also speak of mind, intellect, soul; but to them we can give no form, and of them paint
no likeness. Yet we have ideas of them, and employ words to express them, which become nouns.

This accounts for the reason why the great Parent Intellect has strictly forbidden, in the
decalogue, that a likeness of him should be constructed. His being and attributes are discoverable
only thro the medium of his works and word. No man can see him and live. It would be the height
of folly--it would be more--it would be blasphemy--to attempt to paint the likeness of him
whose presence fills immensity--whose center is every where, and whose circumference is no
where. The name of this Spirit or Being was held in the most profound reverence by the Jews,
as we shall have occasion to mention when we come to treat of the verb =to be=.

We talk of angels, and have seen the unhallowed attempt to describe their likeness in the form
of pictures, which display the fancy of the artist very finely, but give a miserable idea of
those pure spirits who minister at the altar of God, and chant his praises in notes of the
most unspeakable delight.

We have also seen death and the pale horse, the firy dragon, the mystery of Babylon, and such
like things, represented on canvass; but they betoken more of human talent to depict the marvellous,
than a strict regard for truth. Beelzebub, imps, and all Pandemonium, may be vividly imagined
and finely arranged in fiction, and we can name them. Wizzards, witches, and fairies, may play
their sportive tricks in the human brain, and receive names as tho they were real.

We also think and speak of the qualities and affections of the mind as well as matter, as wisdom,
knowledge, virtue, vice, love, hatred, anger. Our conceptions in this case may be less distinct,
but we have ideas, and use words to express them. There is, we confess, a greater liability
to mistake and misunderstand when treating of mind and its qualities, than of matter. The reason
is evident, people know less of it. Its operations are less distinct and more varying.

The child first sees material objects. It is taught to name them. It next learns the qualities
of things; as the sweetness of sugar, the darkness of night, the beauty of flowers. From this
it ascends by gradation to the higher attainments of knowledge as revealed in the empire of
mind, as well as matter. Great care should be taken that this advancement be easy, natural,
and thoro. It should be constantly impressed with the importance of obtaining clear and definite
ideas of things, and never employ words till it has ideas to express; never name a thing of
which it has no knowledge. This is ignorance.

It would be well, perhaps, to extend this remark to those older than children, in years, but
less in real practical knowledge. The remark is of such general application, that no specification
need be made, except to the case before us; to those affected proficients in grammar, whose
only knowledge is the memory of words, which to them have no meanings, if, indeed, the writers
themselves had any to express by them; a fact we regard as questionable, at best. There is
hardly a teacher of grammar, whose self-esteem is not enormous, who will not confess himself
ignorant on many of the important principles of language; that he has never understood, and
could never explain them. He finds no difficulty in repeating what the books say, but if called
upon to express an opinion of his own, he has none to give. He has learned and used words without
knowing their meaning.

Children should be taught language as they are taught music. They should learn the simple tones
on which the whole science depends. Distinct impressions of sounds should be made on their
minds, and the characters which represent them should be inseparably associated with them.
They will then learn tunes from the compositions of those sounds, as represented by notes.
By dint of application, they will soon become familiar with these principles, if possessed
of a talent for song, and may soon pass the acme with ease, accuracy, and rapidity. But there
are those who may sing very prettily, and tolerably correct, who have never studied the first
rudiments of music. But such can never become adepts in the science.

So there are those who use language correctly, who never saw the inside of a grammar book,
and who never examined the principles on which it depends. But this, by no means, proves that
it is better to sing by rote, than "with the understanding." These rudiments, however, should
form the business of the nursery, rather than the grammar school. Every mother should labor
to give distinct and forcible impressions of such things as she learns her children to name.
She should carefully prevent them from employing words which have no meaning, and still more
strictly should she guard them against attaching a wrong meaning to those they do use. In this
way, the foundation for future knowledge and eminence, would be laid broad and deep. But I wander.

We attach names to imaginary things; as ghosts, genii, imps.

To this class belong the thirty thousand gods of the ancients, who were frequently represented
by emblems significant of the characters attached to them. We employ words to name these imaginary
things, so that we read and converse about them understandingly, tho our ideas may be exceedingly
various.

Nouns are also used to express negation, of which no idea can be formed. In this case, the
mind rests on what exists, and employs a word to express what does not. We speak of a hole
in the paper. But we can form no idea of a hole, separated from the surrounding substances.
Remove the parts of the paper till nothing is left, and then you may look in vain for the hole.
It is not there. It never was. In the same way we use the words nothing, nobody, nonentity,
vacuum, absence, space, blank, annihilation, and oblivion. These are relative terms, to be
understood in reference to things which are known to exist. We must know of something before
we can talk of nothing, of an entity before we can think of nonentity.

In a similar way we employ words to name actions, which are produced by the changes of objects.
We speak of a race, of a flight, of a sitting or session, of a journey, of a ride, of a walk,
of a residence, etc. In all these cases, the mind is fixed on the persons who performed these
things. Take for example, a race. Of that, we can conceive no idea separate from the agent
or object which ran the race. Without some other word to inform us we could not decide whether
a horse race, a foot race, a boat race, the race of a mill, or some other race, was the object
of remark. The same may be said of flight, for we read of the flight of birds, the flight of
Mahommed, the flight of armies, and the flight of intellect.

We also give names to actions as tho they were taking place in the present tense. "The reading
of the report was deferred;" steamboat racing is dangerous to public safety; stealing is a
crime; false teaching deserves the reprobation of all.

The hints I have given will assist you in acquiring a knowledge of nouns as used to express
ideas in vocal or written language. This subject might be pursued further with profit, if time
would permit. As the time allotted to this lecture is nearly exhausted, I forbear. I shall
hereafter have occasion to show how a whole phrase may be used to name an idea, and as such
stand as the agent or object of a verb.

Some nouns are specifically used to designate certain objects, and distinguish them from the
class to which they usually belong. In this way they assume a distinctive character, and are
usually denominated =proper nouns=. They apply to persons, places and things; as, John Smith,
Boston, Hylax. Boy is applied in common to all young males of the human species, and as such
is a common noun or name. John Smith designates a particular boy from the rest.

Proper names may be also applied to animals and things. The stable keeper and stageman has
a name for every horse he owns, to distinguish it from other horses; the dairyman for his cows,
the boy for his dog, and the girl for her doll. Any word, in fact, may become a proper name
by being specifically used; as the ship Fair Trader, the brig Success, sloop Delight in Peace,
the race horse Eclipse, Black Hawk, Round Nose, and Red Jacket.

Proper names were formerly used in reference to certain traits of character or circumstances
connected with the place or thing. Abram was changed to Abraham, the former signifying an elevated
father, the latter, the father of a multitude. Isaac signified laughter, and was given because
his mother laughed at the message of the angel. Jacob signified a supplanter, because he was
to obtain the birthright of his elder brother.

A ridiculous rage obtained with our puritan fathers to express scripture sentiments in the
names of their children, as may be seen by consulting the records of the Plymouth and Massachusetts
colonies.

This practice has not wholly gone out of use in our day, for we hear of the names of Hope,
Mercy, Patience, Comfort, Experience, Temperance, Faith, Deliverance, Return, and such like,
applied usually to females, (being more in character probably,) and sometimes to males. We
have also the names of White, Black, Green, Red, Gray, Brown, Olive, Whitefield, Blackwood,
Redfield, Woodhouse, Stonehouse, Waterhouse, Woodbridge, Swiftwater, Lowater, Drinkwater, Spring,
Brooks, Rivers, Pond, Lake, Fairweather, Merryweather, Weatherhead, Rice, Wheat, Straw, Greatrakes,
Bird, Fowle, Crow, Hawks, Eagle, Partridge, Wren, Goslings, Fox, Camel, Zebra, Bear, Wolf,
Hogg, Rain, Snow, Haile, Frost, Fogg, Mudd, Clay, Sands, Hills, Valley, Field, Stone, Flint,
Silver, Gould, and Diamond.

Proper nouns may also become common when used as words of general import; as, dunces, corrupted
from Duns Scotus, a distinguished theologian, born at Dunstane, Northumberland, an opposer
of the doctrines of Thomas Aquinus. He is a real solomon, jack tars, judases, antichrist, and
so on.

Nouns may also be considered in respect to person, number, gender, and positive, or case. There
are three persons, two numbers, two genders, and two cases. But the further consideration of
these things will be deferred, which, together with Pronouns, will form the subject of our
next lecture.

We resume the consideration of nouns this evening, in relation to person, number, gender, and
position or case.

In the use of language there is a speaker, person spoken to, and things spoken of. Those who
speak are the first persons, those who hear the second, and those who are the subject of conversation
the third.

The first and second persons are generally used in reference to human beings capable of speech
and understanding. But we sometimes condesend to hold converse with animals and inanimate matter.
The bird trainer talks to his parrots, the coachman to his horses, the sailor to the winds,
and the poet to his landscapes, towers, and wild imaginings, to which he gives a "local habitation
and a name."

By metaphor, language is put into the mouths of animals, particularly in fables. By a still
further license, places and things, flowers, trees, forests, brooks, lakes, mountains, towers,
castles, stars, &c. are made to speak the most eloquent language, in the first person, in addresses
the most pathetic. The propriety of such a use of words I will not stop to question, but simply
remark that such figures should never be employed in the instruction of children. As the mind
expands, no longer content to grovel amidst mundane things, we mount the pegasus of imagination
and soar thro the blissful or terrific scenes of fancy and fiction, and study a language before
unknown. But it would be an unrighteous demand upon others, to require them to understand us;
and quite as unpardonable to brand them with ignorance because they do not.

Most nouns are in the third person. More things are talked about than talk themselves, or are
talked to by others. Hence there is little necessity for teaching children to specify except
in the first or second person, which is very easily done.

In English there are two numbers, singular and plural. The singular is confined to one, the
plural is extended to any indefinite number. The Greeks, adopted a dual number which they used
to express two objects united in pairs, or couples; as, a span of horses, a yoke of oxen, a
brace of pistols, a pair of shoes. We express the same idea with more words, using the singular
to represent the union of the two. We also extend this use of words and employ what are called
nouns of multitude; as, a people, an army, a host, a nation. These and similar words are used
in the singular referring to many combined in a united whole, or in the plural comprehending
a diversity; as, "the armies met," "the nations are at peace." People admits no change on account
of number. We say "many people are collected together and form a numerous people."

The plural is not always to be understood as expressing an increase of number, but of qualities
or sorts of things, as the merchant has a variety of sugars, wines, teas, drugs, medicines,
paints and dye-woods. We also speak of hopes, fears, loves, anxieties.

Some nouns admit of no plural, in fact, or in use; as, chaos, universe, fitness, immortality,
immensity, eternity. Others admit of no singular; as, scissors, tongs, vitals, molasses. These
words probably once had singulars, but having no use for them they became obsolete. We have
long been accustomed to associate the two halves of shears together, so that in speaking of
one whole, we say shears, and of apart, half of a shears. But of some words originally, and
in fact plural, we have formed a singular; as, "one twin died, and, tho the other one survived
its dangerous illness, the mother wept bitterly for her twins." Twin is composed of two and
one. It is found in old books, spelled twane, two-one, or twin. Thus, the twi-light is formed
by the mingling of two lights, or the division of the rays of light by the approaching or receding
darkness. They twain shall be one flesh. Sheep and deer are singular or plural.

Most plurals are formed by adding s to the singular, or, when euphony requires it, es; as,
tree, trees; sun, suns; dish, dishes; box, boxes. Some retain the old plural form; as, ox,
oxen; child, children; chick, chicken; kit, kitten. But habit has burst the barrier of old
rules, and we now talk of chicks and chickens, kits and kittens. Oxen alone stands as a monument
raised to the memory of unaltered saxon plurals.

Some nouns form irregular plurals. Those ending in f change that letter to v and then add es;
as, half, halves; leaf, leaves; wolf, wolves. Those ending in y change that to i and add the
es; as, cherry, cherries; berry, berries; except when the y is preceded by a vowel, in which
case it only adds the s; as, day, days; money, moneys (not ies); attorney, attorneys. All this
is to make the sound more easy and harmonious. F and v were formerly used indiscriminately,
in singulars as well as plurals, and, in fact, in the composition of all words where they occurred.
The same may be said of i and y.

    "The Fader (Father) Almychty of the heven abuf (above)
    In the mene tyme, unto Juno his luf (love)
    Thus spak; and sayd."
                              Douglas, booke 12, pag. 441.

    "They lyued in ioye and in felycite
    For eche of hem had other lefe and dere."
                              Chaucer, Monks Tale, fol. 81, p. 1.

    "When straite twane beefes he tooke
    And an the aultar layde."

The reason why y is changed into i in the formation of plurals, and in certain other cases,
is, I apprehend, accounted for from the fact that words which now end in y formerly ended in
ie, as may be seen in all old books. The regular plural was then formed by adding s.

"And upon those members of the bodie, which wee thinke most unhonest, put wee more honestie
on." "It rejoyceth not in iniquitie--diversitie of gifts--all thinges edifie not." See old
bible, 1 Cor., chap. 13 and 14.

Other words form their plurals still more differently, for which no other rule than habit can
be given; as, man, men; foot, feet; tooth, teeth; die, dice; mouse, mice; penny, pence, and
sometimes pennies, when applied to distinct pieces of money, and not to value.

Many foreign nouns retain the plural form as used by the nations from whom we have borrowed
them; as, cherub, cherubim; seraph, seraphim; radius, radii; memorandum, memoranda; datum,
data, &c. We should be pleased to have such words carried home, or, if they are ours by virtue
of possession, let them be adopted into our family, and put on the garments of naturalized
citizens, and no longer appear as lonely strangers among us. There is great aukwardness in
adding the english to the hebrew plural of cherub, as the translators of the common version
of the bible have done. They use cherub in the singular and cherubims in the plural. The s
should be omitted and the Hebrew plural retained, or the preferable course adopted, and the
final s be added, making cherubs, seraphs, &c. The same might be said of all foreign nouns.
It would add much to the regularity, dignity, and beauty, of our vernacular tongue.

Proper nouns admit of the plural number; as, there are sixty-four John Smiths in New-York,
twenty Arnolds in Providence, and fifteen Davises in Boston. As we are not accustomed to form
the plurals of proper names there is not that ease and harmony in the first use of them that
we have found in those with which we are more familiar; especially those we have rarely heard
pronounced. Habit surmounts the greatest obstacles and makes things the most harsh and unpleasant
appear soft and agreeable.

Gender is applied to the distinction of the sexes. There are two--masculine and feminine. The
former is applied to males, the latter to females. Those words which belong to neither gender,
have been called neuter, that is, no gender. But it is hardly necessary to perplex the minds
of learners with negatives. Let them distinguish between masculine and feminine genders, and
little need be said to them about a neuter.

There are some nouns of both genders, as student, writer, pupil, person, citizen, resident.
Poet, author, editor, and some other words, have of late been applied to females, instead of
poetess, authoress, editress. Fashion will soon preclude the necessity of this former distinction.

Some languages determine their genders by the form of the endings of their nouns, and what
is thus made masculine in Rome, may be feminine in France. It is owing, no doubt, to this practice,
in other nations, that we have attached the idea of gender to inanimate things; as, "the sun,
he shines majestically;" while of the moon, it is said, "she sheds a milder radiance." But
we can not coincide with the reason assigned by Mr. Murray, for this distinction. His notion
is not valid. It does not correspond with facts. While in the south of Europe the sun is called
masculine and the moon feminine, the northern nations invariably reverse the distinction, particularly
the dialects of the Scandinavian. It was so in our own language in the time of Shakspeare.
He calls the sun a "fair wench."

By figures of rhetoric, genders may be attached to inanimate matter. Where things are personified,
we usually speak of them as masculine and feminine; but this practice depends on fancy, and
not on any fixed rules. There is, in truth, but two genders, and those confined to animals.
When we break these rules, and follow the undirected wanderings of fancy, we can form no rules
to regulate our words. We may have as many fanciful ones as we please, but they will not apply
in common practice. For example: poets and artists have usually attached female loveliness
to angels, and placed them in the feminine gender. But they are invariably used in the masculine
thro out the scriptures.

There is an apparent absurdity in saying of the ship General Williams, she is beautiful; or,
of the steamboat Benjamin Franklin, she is out of date. It were far better to use no gender
in such cases. But if people will continue the practice of making distinctions where there
are none, they must do it from habit and whim, and not from any reason or propriety.

There are three ways in which we usually distinguish the forms of words in reference to gender.
1st. By words which are different; as boy, girl; uncle, aunt; father, mother. 2d. By a different
termination of the same word; as instructor, instructress; lion, lioness; poet, poetess. Ess
is a contraction from the hebrew essa, a female. 3d. By prefixing another word; as, a male
child, a female child; a man servant, a maid servant; a he-goat, a she-goat.

The last consideration that attaches to nouns, is the position they occupy in written or spoken
language, in relation to other words, as being agents, or objects of action. This is termed
position.

There are two positions in which nouns stand in reference to their meaning and use. First,
as agents of action, as David killed Goliath. Second, as objects on which action terminates;
as, Richard conquered Henry. These two distinctions should be observed in the use of all nouns.
But the propriety of this division will be more evident when we come to treat of verbs, their
agents and objects.

It will be perceived that we have abandoned the use of the "possessive case," a distinction
which has been insisted on in our grammars; and also changed the names of the other two. As
we would adopt nothing that is new without first being convinced that something is needed which
the thing proposed will supply; so we would reject nothing that is old, till we have found
it useless and cumbersome. It will be admitted on all hands that the fewer and simpler the
rules of grammar, the more readily will they be understood, and the more correctly applied.
We should guard, on the one hand, against having so many as to perplex, and on the other, retain
enough to apply in the correct use of language. It is on this ground that we have proposed
an improvement in the names and number of cases, or positions.

The word noun signifies name, and nominative is the adjective derived from noun, and partakes
of the same meaning. Hence the nominative or naming case may apply as correctly to the object
as the agent. "John strikes Thomas, and Thomas strikes John." John and Thomas name the boys
who strike, but in the first case John is the actor or agent and Thomas the object. In the
latter it is changed. To use a nominative name is a redundancy which should be avoided. You
will understand my meaning and see the propriety of the change proposed, as the mind of the
learner should not be burthened with needless or irrelevant phrases.

But our main objection lies against the "possessive case." We regard it as a false and unnecessary
distinction. What is the possessive case? Murray defines it as "expressing the relation of
property or possession; as, my father's house." His rule of syntax is, "one substantive governs
another, signifying a different thing, in the possessive or genitive case; as, my father's
house." I desire you to understand the definition and use as here given. Read it over again,
and be careful that you know the meaning of property, possession, and government. Now let a
scholar parse correctly the example given. "Father's" is a common noun, third person, singular
number, masculine gender, and governed by house:" Rule, "One noun governs another," &c. Then
my father does not govern his own house, but his house him! What must be the conduct and condition
of the family, if they have usurped the government of their head? "John Jones, hatter, keeps
constantly for sale all kinds of boy's hats. Parse boy's. It is a noun, possessive case, governed
by hats." What is the possessive case? It "signifies the relation of property or possession."
Do the hats belong to the boys? Oh no. Are they the property or in the possession of the boys?
Certainly not. Then what relation is there of property or possession? None at all. They belong
to John Jones, were made by him, are his property, and by him are advertised for sale. He has
used the word boy's to distinguish their size, quality, and fitness for boy's use.

"The master's slave." Master's is in the possessive case, and governed by slave! If grammars
are true there can be no need of abolition societies, unless it is to look after the master
and see that he is not abused. The rider's horse; the captain's ship; the general's army; the
governor's cat; the king's subject. How false it would be to teach scholars the idea of property
and government in such cases. The teacher's scholars should never learn that by virtue of their
grammars, or the apostrophe and letter s, they have a right to govern their teachers; nor the
mother's son, to govern his mother. Our merchants would dislike exceedingly to have the ladies
understand them to signify by their advertisements that the "ladies' merino shawls, the ladies's
bonnets and lace wrought veils, the ladies' gloves and elegant Thibet, silk and challa dresses,
were the property of the ladies; for in that case they might claim or possess themselves of
their property, and no longer trouble the merchant with the care of it.

"Peter's wife's mother lay sick of a fever." "His physician said that his disease would require
his utmost skill to defeat its progress in his limbs." Phrases like these are constantly occurring,
which can not be explained intelligibly by the existing grammars. In fact, the words said to
be nouns in the possessive case, have changed their character, by use, from nouns to adjectives,
or definitive words, and should thus be classed. Russia iron, Holland gin, China ware, American
people, the Washington tavern, Lafayette house, Astor house, Hudson river, (formerly Hudson's,)
Baffin's bay, Van Dieman's land, John street, Harper's ferry, Hill's bridge, a paper book,
a bound book, a red book, John's book--one which John is known to use, it may be a borrowed
one, but generally known as some way connected with him,--Rev. Mr. Smith's church, St. John's
church, Grace church, Murray's grammar; not the property nor in the possession of Lindley Murray,
neither does it govern him; for he has gone to speak a purer language than he taught on earth.
It is mine. I bought it, have possessed it these ten years; but, thank fortune, am little governed
by it. But more on this point when we come to the proper place. What I have said, will serve
as a hint, which will enable you to see the impropriety of adopting the "possessive case."

It may be said that more cases are employed in other languages. That is a poor reason why we
should break the barriers of natural language. Beside, I know not how we should decide by that
rule, for none of them have a case that will compare with the English possessive. The genitive
of the French, Latin, or Greek, will apply in only a few respects. The former has three, the
latter five, and the Latin six cases, neither of which correspond with the possessive, as explained
by Murray and his satellites. We should be slow to adopt into our language an idiom which does
not belong to it, and compel learners to make distinctions where none exist. It is an easy
matter to tell children that the apostrophe and letter s marks the possessive case; but when
they ask the difference in the meaning between the use of the noun and those which all admit
are adjectives, it will be no indifferent task to satisfy them. What is the difference in the
construction of language or the sense conveyed, between Hudson's river, and Hudson river? Davis's
straits, or Bass straits? St. John's church, or Episcopal church? the sun's beams, or sun shine?
In all cases these words are used to define the succeeding noun. They regard "property or possession,"
only when attending circumstances, altogether foreign from any quality in the form or meaning
of the word itself, are so combined as to give it that import. And in such cases, we retain
these words as adjectives, long after the property has passed from the hands of the persons
who gave it a name. Field's point, Fuller's rocks, Fisher's island, Fulton's invention, will
long be retained after those whose names were given to distinguish these things, have slept
with their fathers and been forgotten. Blannerhassett's Island, long since ceased to be his
property or tranquil possession, by confiscation; but it will retain its specific name, till
the inundations of the Ohio's waters shall have washed it away and left not a wreck behind.

The distinctions I have made in the positions of nouns, will be clearly understood when we
come to the verbs. A few remarks upon pronouns will close the present lecture.

PRONOUNS.

Pronouns are such as the word indicates. Pro is the latin word for; pro-nomen, for nouns. They
are words, originally nouns, used specifically for other nouns, to avoid the too frequent repetition
of the same words; as, Washington was the father of his country; he was a valiant officer.
We ought to respect him. The word we, stands for the speaker and all present, and saves the
trouble of naming them; he and him, stand for Washington, to avoid the monotony which would
be produced by a recurrence of his name.

Pronouns are all of one kind, and few in number. I will give you a list of them in their respective
positions.

                        Agents.      Objects.
            { 1st person,  I,             me,
            { 2d    "      thou,          thee,
Singular  { 3d    "  mas. { he,         him,
            {       "  fem. { she,        her,
            {              it,            it.

            { 1st person,  we,            us,
 Plural   { 2d    "      ye, or you,    you,
            { 3d    "      they,          them,
                           who,           whom.

The two last may be used in either person, number, or gender.

The frequent use of these words render them very important, in the elegant and rapid use of
language. They are so short, and their sound so soft and easy, that the frequency of their
recurrence does not mar the beauty of a sentence, but saves us from the redundancy of other
words. They are substituted only when there is little danger of mistaking the nouns for which
they stand. They are, however, sometimes used in a very broad sense; as, "they say it is so;"
meaning no particular persons, but the general sentiment. It frequently takes the lead of a
sentence, and the thing represented by it comes after; as, "It is currently reported, that
things were thus and so." Here it represents the single idea which is afterward stated at length.
"It is so." "It may be that the nations will be destroyed by wars, earthquakes, and famines."
But more of this when we come to speak of the composition of sentences.

The words now classed as pronouns were originally names of things, but in this character they
have long been obsolete. They are now used only in their secondary character as the representatives
of other words. The word he, for instance, signified originally to breathe. It was applied
to the living beings who inhaled air. It occurs with little change in the various languages
of Europe, ancient and modern, till at length it is applied to the male agent which lives and
acts. The word her means light, but is specifically applied to females which are the objects
of action.

Was it in accordance with the design of these lectures, it would give me pleasure to go into
a minute examination of the origin, changes and meaning of these words till they came to be
applied as specific words of exceeding limited character. Most of them might be traced thro
all the languages of Europe; the Arabic, Persic, Arminian, Chaldean, Hebrew, and, for ought
I know, all the languages of Asia. But as they are now admitted a peculiar position in the
expression of thought from which they never vary; and as we are contending about philosophic
principles rather than verbal criticisms, I shall forbear a further consideration of these words.

In the proper place I shall consider those words formerly called "Adjective Pronouns," "Pronoun
Adjectives," or "Pronominal Adjectives," to suit the varying whims of those grammar makers,
who desired to show off a speck of improvement in their "simplifying" works without ever having
a new idea to express. It is a query in some minds whether the seventy-two "simplifiers" and
"improvers" of Murray's grammar ever had any distinct notions in their heads which they did
not obtain from the very man, who, it would seem by their conduct, was unable to explain his
own meaning.

The most important sub-division of words is the class called Adjectives, which we propose to
notice this evening. Adjective signifies added or joined to. We employ the term in grammar
to designate that class of words which are added to nouns to define or describe them. In doing
this, we strictly adhere to the principles we have already advanced, and do not deviate from
the laws of nature, as developed in the regulation of speech.

In speaking of things, we had occasion to observe that the mind not only conceived ideas of
things, but of their properties; as, the hardness of flint; the heat of fire; and that we spoke
of one thing in reference to another. We come now to consider this subject more at large.

In the use of language the mind first rests on the thing which is present before it, or the
word which represents the idea of that thing. Next it observes the changes and attitudes of
these things. Thirdly, it conceives ideas of their qualities and relations to other things.
The first use of these words is to name things. This we call nouns. The second is to express
their actions. This we call verbs. The last is to define or describe things. This we call adjectives.
There is a great similarity between the words used to name things and to express their actions;
as, builders build buildings; singers sing songs; writers write writings; painters paint paintings.
In the popular use of language we vary these words to avoid the monotony and give pleasantness
and variety. We say builders erect houses, barns, and other buildings; singers perform pieces
of music; musicians play tunes; the choir sing psalm tunes; artists paint pictures.

From these two classes a third is derived which partakes somewhat of the nature of both, and
yet from its secondary use, it has obtained a distinctive character, and as such is allowed
a separate position among the classes of words.

It might perhaps appear more in order to pass the consideration of adjectives till we have
noticed the character and use of verbs, from which an important portion of them is derived.
But as they are used in connexion with nouns, and as the character they borrow from the verb
will be readily understood, I have preferred to retain the old arrangement, and consider them
in this place.

Adjectives are words added to nouns to define or describe them. They are derived either, 1st,
from nouns; as, window glass, glass window, a stone house, building stone, maple sugar, sugar
cane; or, 2d, from verbs; as, a written paper, a printed book, a painted house, a writing desk.
In the first case we employ one noun, or the name of one thing, to define another, thus giving
it a secondary use. A glass window is one made of glass, and not of any thing else. It is neither
a board window, nor a paper window. Maple sugar is not cane sugar, nor beet sugar, nor molasses
sugar; but it may be brown sugar, if it has been browned, or white if it has been whited or
whitened. In this case, you at once perceive the correctness of our second proposition, in
the derivation of adjectives from verbs, by which we describe a thing in reference to its condition,
in some way affected by the operation of a prior action. A printed book is one on which the
action of printing has been performed. A written book differs from the former, in as much as
its appearance was produced by writing and not by printing.

In the definition or description of things, whatever is best understood is employed as a definitive
or descriptive term, and is attached to the object to make known its properties and relations.
Speaking of nations, if we desire to distinguish some from others, we choose the words supposed
to be best known, and talk of European, African, American, or Indian nations; northern, southern,
eastern, or western nations. These last words are used in reference to their relative position,
and may be variously understood; for we speak of the northern, eastern, western, and southern
nations of Europe, of Africa, and the world.

Again, we read of civilized, half-civilized, and barbarous nations; learned, unlearned, ignorant,
and enlightened; rich, powerful, enterprising, respected, ancient or modern, christian, mahomedan
or pagan. In these, and a thousand similar cases, we decide the meaning, not alone from the
word employed as an adjective, but from the subject of remark; for, were we to attach the same
meaning to the same word, wherever used, we could not receive correct or definite impressions
from the language of others--our inferences would be the most monstrous. A great mountain and
a great pin, a great continent and a great farm, a great ocean and a great pond, a great grammar
and a great scholar, refer to things of very different dimensions and character; or, as Mr.
Murray would say, "qualities." A mountain is great by comparison with other mountains; and
a pin, compared with other pins, may be very large--exceeding great--and yet fall very far
short of the size of a very small mountain. A small man may be a great scholar, and a rich
neighbor a poor friend. A sweet flower is often very bitter to the taste. A good horse would
make a bad dinner, but false grammar can never make true philologists.

All words are to be understood according to their use. Their meaning can be determined in no
other way. Many words change their forms to express their relations, but fewer in our language
than in most others, ancient or modern. Other words remain the same, or nearly so, in every
position; noun, adjective, or verb, agent or object, past or present. To determine whether
a word is an adjective, first ascertain whether it names a thing, defines or describes it,
or expresses its action, and you will never be at a loss to know to what class it belongs.

The business of adjectives is twofold, and they may be distinguished by the appellations of
defining or describing adjectives. This distinction is in many cases unimportant; in others
it is quite essential. The same word in one case may define, in others describe the object,
and occasionally do both, for we often specify things by their descriptions. The learner has
only to ascertain the meaning and use of the adjective to decide whether it defines or describes
the subject of remark. If it is employed to distinguish one thing from the general mass, or
one class from other classes, it has the former character; but after such thing is pointed
out, if it is used to give a description of its character or properties, its character is different,
and should be so understood and explained.

Defining adjectives are used to point out, specify or distinguish certain things from others
of their kind, or one sort from other sorts, and answer to the questions which, what, how many,
or how much.

Describing adjectives express the character and qualities of things, and give a more full and
distinct knowledge than was before possessed.

In a case before mentioned, we spoke of the "Indian nations." The word Indian was chosen to
specify or define what nations were alluded to. But all may not decide alike in this case.
Some may think we meant the aborigines of America; others, that the southern nations of Asia
were referred to. This difficulty originates in a misapprehension of the definitive word chosen.
India was early known as the name of the south part of Asia, and the people there, were called
Indians. When Columbus discovered the new world, supposing he had reached the country of India,
which had long been sought by a voyage round the coast of Africa, he named it India, and the
people Indians. But when the mistake was discovered, and the truth fully known, instead of
effecting a change in the name already very generally understood, and in common use, another
word was chosen to distinguish between countries so opposite and West India became the word
to distinguish the newly discovered islands; and as India was little better known in Europe
at that time, instead of retaining their old name unaltered, another word was prefixed, and
they called it East India. When, therefore, we desire to be definite, we retain these words,
and say, East Indians and West Indians. Without this distinction, we should understand the
native people of our own country; but in Europe, Asia, and Africa, they would think we alluded
to those in Asia. So with all other adjectives which are not understood. Indian, as an adjective,
may also be employed to describe the character and condition of the aborigines. We talk of
an indian temper, indian looks, indian blankets, furs, &c.

In writing and conversation we should employ words to explain, to define and describe, which
are better understood than those things of which we speak. The pedantry of some modern writers
in this respect is ridiculous. Not satisfied to use plain terms which every body can understand,
they hunt the dictionaries from alpha to omega, and not unfrequently overleap the "king's english,"
and ransack other languages to find an unheard of word, or a list of adjectives never before
arranged together, in so nice a manner, so that their ideas are lost to the common reader,
if not to themselves. This fault may be alleged against too many of our public speakers, as
well as the affected gentry of the land. Such sentences remind us of the painting of the young
artist who drew the form of an animal, but apprehensive that some might mistake it, wrote under
it, "This is a horse."

In forming our notions of what is signified by an adjective, the mind should pause to determine
the meaning of such word when used as a distinct name for some object, in order to determine
the import of it in this new capacity. A tallow candle is one made of a substance called tallow,
and is employed to distinguish it from wax or spermaceti candles. The adjective in this case,
names the article of which the candle is made, and is thus a noun, but, as we are not speaking
of tallow, but of candles, we place it in a new relation, and give it a new grammatical character.
But you will perceive the correctness of a former assertion, that all words may be reduced
to two classes, and that adjectives are derived from nouns or verbs.

But you may inquire if there are not some adjectives in use which have no corresponding verb
or noun from which they are derived. There are many words in our language which in certain
uses have become obsolete, but are retained in others. We now use some words as verbs which
originally were known only as nouns, and others as nouns which are unknown as verbs. We also
put a new construction upon words and make nouns, verbs and adjectives promiscuously and with
little regard to rule or propriety. Words at one time unknown become familiar by use, and others
are laid aside for those more new or fashionable. These facts are so obvious that I shall be
excused from extending my remarks to any great length. But I will give an example which will
serve as a clew to the whole. Take the word happy, long known only as an adjective. Instead
of following this word back to its primitive use and deriving it directly from its noun, or
as a past participle, such as it is in truth, we have gone forward and made from it the noun
happiness, and, in more modern days, are using the verb happify, a word, by the way, in common
use, but which has not yet been honored with a place in our dictionaries; altho Mr. Webster
has given us, as he says, the unauthorised (un-author-ised) word "happifying." Perhaps he had
never heard or read some of our greatest savans, who, if not the authors, employ the word happify
very frequently in the pulpit and halls of legislation, and at the bar, as well as in common
parlance.

Happy is the past participle of the verb to hap, or, as afterwards used, with a nice shade
of change in the meaning, to happen. It means happied, or made happy by those favorable circumstances
which have happened to us. Whoever will read our old writers no further back than Shakspeare,
will at once see the use and changes of this word. They will find it in all its forms, simple
and compound, as a verb, noun, and adjective. "It may hap that he will come." It happened as
I was going that I found my lost child, and was thereby made quite happy. The man desired to
happify himself and family without much labor, so he engaged in speculation; and happily he
was not so hapless in his pursuit of happiness as often happens to such hap-hazard fellows,
for he soon became very happy with a moderate fortune.

But to the question. There are many adjectives in our language which are borrowed from foreign
words. Instead of adjectiving our own nouns we go to our neighbors and adjective and anglicise
[english-ise] their words, and adopt the pampered urchins into our own family and call them
our favorites. It is no wonder that they often appear aukward and unfamiliar, and that our
children are slow in forming an intimate acquaintance with them. You are here favored with
a short list of these words which will serve as examples, and enable you to comprehend my meaning
and apply it in future use. Some of them are regularly used as adjectives, with or without
change; others are not.

    ENGLISH NOUNS.   FOREIGN ADJECTIVES.

    Alone            Sole, solitary
    Alms             Eleemosynary
    Age              Primeval
    Belief           Credulous
    Blame            Culpable
    Breast           Pectoral
    Being            Essential
    Bosom            Graminal, sinuous
    Boy, boyish      Puerile
    Blood, bloody    Sanguinary, sanguine
    Burden           Onerous
    Beginning        Initial
    Boundary         Conterminous
    Brother          Fraternal
    Bowels           Visceral
    Body             Corporeal
    Birth            Natal, native
    Calf             Vituline
    Carcass          Cadaverous
    Cat              Feline
    Cow              Vaccine
    Country          Rural, rustic
    Church           Ecclesiastical
    Death            Mortal
    Dog              Canine
    Day              Diurnal, meridian, ephemeral
    Disease          Morbid
    East             Oriental
    Egg              Oval
    Ear              Auricular
    Eye              Ocular
    Flesh            Carnal, carnivorous
    Father           Paternal
    Field            Agrarian
    Flock            Gregarious
    Foe              Hostile
    Fear             Timorous, timid
    Finger           Digital
    Flattery         Adulatory
    Fire             Igneous
    Faith            Fiducial
    Foot             Pedal
    Groin            Inguinal
    Guardian         Tutelar
    Glass            Vitreous
    Grape            Uveous
    Grief            Dolorous
    Gain             Lucrative
    Help             Auxiliary
    Heart            Cordial, cardiac
    Hire             Stipendiary
    Hurt             Noxious
    Hatred           Odious
    Health           Salutary, salubrious
    Head             Capital, chief
    Ice              Glacial
    Island           Insular
    King             Regal, royal
    Kitchen          Culinary
    Life             Vital, vivid, vivarious
    Lungs            Pulmonary
    Lip              Labial
    Leg              Crural, isosceles
    Light            Lucid, luminous
    Love             Amorous
    Lust             Libidinous
    Law              Legal, loyal
    Mother           Maternal
    Money            Pecuniary
    Mixture          Promiscuous, miscellaneous
    Moon             Lunar, sublunary
    Mouth            Oral
    Marrow           Medulary
    Mind             Mental
    Man              Virile, male, human, masculine
    Milk             Lacteal
    Meal             Ferinaceous
    Nose             Nasal
    Navel            Umbilical
    Night            Nocturnal, equinoctial
    Noise            Obstreperous
    One              First
    Parish           Parochial
    People           Popular, populous, public, epidemical, endemical
    Point            Punctual
    Pride            Superb, haughty
    Plenty           Copious
    Pitch            Bituminous
    Priest           Sacerdotal
    Rival            Emulous
    Root             Radical
    Ring             Annular
    Reason           Rational
    Revenge          Vindictive
    Rule             Regular
    Speech           Loquacious, garrulous, eloquent
    Smell            Olfactory
    Sight            Visual, optic, perspicuous, conspicuous
    Side             Lateral, collateral
    Skin             Cutaneous
    Spittle          Salivial
    Shoulder         Humeral
    Shepherd         Pastoral
    Sea              Marine, maritime
    Share            Literal
    Sun              Solar
    Star             Astral, sideral, stellar
    Sunday           Dominical
    Spring           Vernal
    Summer           Estival
    Seed             Seminal
    Ship             Naval, nautical
    Shell            Testaceous
    Sleep            Soporiferous
    Strength         Robust
    Sweat            Sudorific
    Step             Gradual
    Sole             Venal
    Two              Second
    Treaty           Federal
    Trifle           Nugatory
    Tax              Fiscal
    Time             Temporal, chronical
    Town             Oppidan
    Thanks           Gratuitous
    Theft            Furtive
    Threat           Minatory
    Treachery        Insidious
    Thing            Real
    Throat           Jugular, gutteral
    Taste            Insipid
    Thought          Pensive
    Thigh            Femoral
    Tooth            Dental
    Tear             Lachrymal
    Vessel           Vascular
    World            Mundane
    Wood             Sylvan, savage
    Way              Devious, obvious, impervious, trivial
    Worm             Vermicular
    Whale            Cutaceous
    Wife             Uxorious
    Word             Verbal, verbose
    Weak             Hebdomadal
    Wall             Mural
    Will             Voluntary, spontaneous
    Winter           Brumal
    Wound            Vulnerary
    West             Occidental
    War              Martial
    Women            Feminine, female, effeminate
    Year             Annual, anniversary, perennial, triennial

Such are some of the adjectives introduced into our language from other nations. The list will
enable you to discover that when we have no adjective of our own to correspond with the noun,
we borrow from our neighbors an adjective derived from one of their nouns, to which we give
an english termination. For example:

    English Noun.    Latin Noun.        Adjective.

    Boy                Puer                 Puerile
    Grief              Dolor                Dolorous
    Thought            Pensa                Pensive
    Wife               Uxor                 Uxorious
    Word               Verbum               Verbal, verbose
    Year               Annum                Annual
    Body               Corpus               Corporeal
    Head               Caput                Capital
    Church             Ekklesia (Greek)   Ecclesiastical
    King               Roi (French)       Royal
    Law                Loi     "            Loyal

It is exceedingly difficult to understand the adjectives of many nouns with which we are familiar,
from the fact above stated, that they are derived from other languages, and not our own. The
most thoro scholars have found this task no easy affair. Most grammarians have let it pass
unobserved; but every person has seen the necessity of some explanation upon this point, to
afford a means of ascertaining the etymological derivation and meaning of these words. I would
here enter farther into this subject, but I am reminded that I am surpassing the limits set
me for this course of lectures.

The attention I have bestowed on this part of the present subject, will not be construed into
a mere verbal criticism. It has been adopted to show you how, in the definition or description
of things, the mind clings to one thing to gain some information concerning another. When we
find a thing unlike any thing else we have ever known, in form, in size, in color, in every
thing; we should find it a difficult task, if not an impossibility, to describe it to another
in a way to give any correct idea of it. Having never seen its like before, we can say little
of its character. We may give it a name, but that would not be understood. We could say it
was as large as--no, it had no size; that it was like--but no, it had no likeness; that it
resembled--no, it had no resemblance. How could we describe it? What could we say of it? Nothing
at all.

What idea could the Pacha of Egypt form of ice, having never seen any till the french chemists
succeeded in freezing water in his presence? They told him of ice; that it was cold; that it
would freeze; that whole streams were often frozen over, so that men and teams could walk over
them. He believed no such thing--it was a "christian lie." This idea was confirmed on the first
trial of the chemists, which failed of success. But when, on the second attempt, they succeeded,
he was all in raptures. A new field was open before him. New ideas were produced in his mind.
New qualities were learned; and he could now form some idea of the ice bergs of the north;
of frozen regions, which he had never seen; of icy hearts, and storms of frozen rain.

We often hear it said, such a man is very stoical; another is an epicurean; and another is
a bacchanal, or bacchanalian. But what idea should we form of such persons, if we had never
read of the Stoics and their philosophy; of Epicurus and his notions of happiness and duty;
or of Bacchus, the god of wine and revelry, whose annual feasts, or Dionysia, were celebrated
with the most extravagant licentiousness thro out Greece and Rome, till put down by the Senate
of the latter.

You can not fail to see the importance of the knowledge on which we here insist. The meaning
you attach to words is exceedingly diverse; and hence you are not always able to think alike,
or understand each other, nor derive the same sentiment from the same language. The contradictory
opinions which exist in the world may be accounted for, in a great measure, in this way. Our
knowledge of many things of which we speak, is limited, either from lack of means, or disposition
to employ them. People always differ and contend most about things of which they know the least.
Did we all attach the same meaning to the same words, our opinions would all be the same, as
true as the forty-fifth problem of Euclid. How important, then, that children should always
be taught the same meaning of words, and learn to use them correctly. Etymology, viewed in
this light, is a most important branch of science.

Whenever a word is sufficiently understood, no adjective should be connected with it. There
is a ridiculous practice among many people, of appending to every noun one or more adjectives,
which have no other effect than to expose their own folly. Some writers are so in the habit
of annexing adjectives to all nouns, that they dare not use one without. You will not unfrequently
see adjectives different in form, added to a noun of very similar meaning; as, sad melancholy,
an ominous sign, this mundane earth, pensive thoughts.

When words can be obtained, which not only name the object, but also describe its properties,
it should be preferred to a noun with an adjective; as pirate, for sea robber; savan, for a
learned or wise man.[4]

In relation to that class of adjectives derived from verbs, we will be brief. They include
what have been termed participles, not a distinct "part of speech," but by some included in
the verbs. We use them as adjectives to describe things as standing in some relation to other
things on the account of the action expressed by the verb from which they are derived. "The
man is respected." Respected, in this case, describes the man in such a relation to those who
have become acquainted with his good qualities, that he now receives their respect. He is respectable,
(able to command, or worthy of respect,) and of course, respected for his respectability. To
avoid repetition, we select different words to assist in the expression of a complex idea.
But I indulge in phrases like the above, to show the nice shades of meaning in the common use
of words, endeavoring to analyze, as far as possible, our words and thoughts, and show their
mutual connexion and dependencies.

What has been termed the "present participle" is also an adjective, describing things in their
present condition in reference to actions. "The man is writing." Here, writing describes the
man in his present employment. But the consideration of this matter more properly belongs to
the construction of sentences.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is another class or variety of words properly belonging to this division of grammar,
which may as well be noticed in this place as any other. I allude to those words generally
called "Prepositions." We have not time now to consider them at large, but will give you a
brief view of our opinion of them, and reserve the remainder of our remarks till we come to
another part of these lectures.

Most of the words called prepositions, in books of grammar, are participles, derived from verbs,
many of which are still in use, but some are obsolete. They are used in the true character
of adjectives, describing one thing by its relation to another. But their meaning has not been
generally understood. Our dictionaries have afforded no means by which we can trace their etymology.
They have been regarded as a kind of cement to stick other words together, having no meaning
or importance in themselves.[5] Until their meaning is known, we can not reasonably expect
to draw them from their hiding places, and give them a respectable standing in the transmission
of thought.

Many words, from the frequency of their use, fail to attract our attention as much as those
less employed; not because they are less important, but because they are so familiarly known
that the operations of thought are not observed in the choice made of them to express ideas.
If we use words of which little is known, we ponder well before we adopt them, to determine
whether the sense usually attached to them accords exactly with the notions we desire to convey
by them. The same can not be said of small words which make up a large proportion of our language,
and are, in fact, more necessary than the others, in as much as their meaning is more generally
known. Those who employ carriages to convey their bodies, observe little of their construction,
unless there is something singular or fine in their appearance. The common parts are unobserved,
yet as important as the small words used in the common construction of language, the vehicle
of thought. As the apostle says of the body politic, "those members of the body, which seem
to be more feeble, are necessary;" so the words least understood by grammarians are most necessary
in the correct formation of language.

It is an easy matter to get along with the words called prepositions, after they are all learned
by rote; but when their meaning and use are inquired into, the best grammarians have little
to say of them.

A list of prepositions, alphabetically arranged, is found in nearly every grammar, which scholars
are required to commit to memory, without knowing any thing of their meaning or use, only that
they are prepositions when an objective word comes after them, because the books say so; but
occasionally the same words occur as adverbs and adjectives. There is, however, no trouble
in "parsing" them, unless the list is forgotten. In that case, you will see the pupil, instead
of inquiring after the meaning and duty of the word, go to the book and search for it in the
lists of prepositions or conjunctions; or to the dictionary, to see if there is a "prep." appended
to it. What will children ever learn of language in this way? Of what avail is all such grammar
teaching? As soon as they leave school it is all forgotten; and you will hear them say, at
the very time they should be reaping the harvest of former toil, that they once understood
grammar, but it is all gone from them. Poor souls! their memory is very treacherous, else they
have never learned language as they ought. There is a fault somewhere. To us it is not difficult
to determine where it is.

That certain words are prepositions, there can be no doubt, because the books say they are;
but why they are so, is quite another matter. All we desire is to have their meaning understood.
Little difficulty will then be found in determining their use.

I have said they are derived from verbs, many of which are obsolete. Some are still in use,
both as verbs and nouns. Take for example the word =with=. This word signifies joined or united.
It is used to show that two things are some how joined together so that they are spoke of in
connexion. It frequently occurs in common conversation, as a verb and noun, but not as frequently
in the books as formerly. The farmer says to his hired man, "Go and get a withe and come and
withe up the fence;" that is, get some pliant twigs of tough wood, twist them together, and
withe or bind them round these posts, so that one may stand firm with, or withed to, the other.
A book with a cover, is one that has a cover joined, bound, or attached to it. "A father with
a son, a man with an estate, a nation with a constitution." In all such cases with expresses
the relation between the two things mentioned, produced by a union or connexion with each other.[6]

=In= is used in the same way. It is still retained as a noun and is suspended on the signs
of many public houses. "The traveller's inn," is a house where travellers in themselves, or
go in, for entertainment. It occurs frequently in Shakspeare and in more modern writers, as
a verb, and is still used in common conversation as an imperative. "Go, in the crops of grain."
"In with you." "In with it." In describes one thing by its relation to another, which is the
business of adjectives. It admits of the regular degrees of comparison; as, in, inner, innermost
or inmost. It also has its compounds. Instep, the inner part of the foot, inlet, investment,
inheritance. In this capacity it is extensively used under its different shades of meaning
which I cannot stop to notice.

=Of= signifies divided, separated, or parted. "The ship is off the coast." "I am bound off,
and you are bound out." "A part of a pencil," is that part which is separated from the rest,
implying that the act of separating, or offing, has taken place. "A branch of the tree." There
is the tree; this branch is from it. "Our communication was broken off several years ago."
"Sailors record their offings, and parents love their offspring," or those children which sprung
from them.[7] "We also are his offspring;" that is, sprung from God.[8] In all these, and every
other case, you will perceive the meaning of the word, and its office will soon appear essential
in the expression of thought. Had all the world been a compact whole, nothing ever separated
from it, we could never speak of a part of it, for we could never have such an idea. But we
look at things, as separated, divided, parted; and speak of one thing as separated from the
others. Hence, when we speak of the part of the earth we inhabit, we, in imagination, separate
it from some other part, or the general whole. We can not use this word in reference to a thing
which is indivisible, because we can conceive no idea of a part of an indivisible thing. We
do not say, a portion of our mind taken as a whole, but as capable of division. A share of
our regards, supposes that the remainder is reserved for something else.

=Out=, outer or utter, outermost or utmost, admits of the same remark as in.

       *       *       *       *       *

In this manner, we might explain a long list of words, called adverbs, conjunctions, and prepositions.
But I forbear, for the present, the further consideration of this subject, and leave it for
another lecture.

We resume the consideration of Adjectives. The importance of this class of words in the expression
of our thoughts, is my excuse for bestowing upon it so much labor. Had words always been used
according to their primitive meaning, there would be little danger of being misunderstood.
But the fact long known, "Verba mutanter"--words change--has been the prolific source of much
of the diversity of opinion, asperity of feeling, and apparent misconstruction of other's sentiments,
which has disturbed society, and disgraced mankind. I have, in a former lecture, alluded to
this point, and call it up in this place to prepare your minds to understand what is to be
said on the secondary use of words in the character of adjectives.

I have already spoken of adjectives in general, as derived from nouns and verbs, and was somewhat
particular upon the class sometimes called prepositions, which describe one thing by its relation
to another, produced by some action which has placed them in such relation. We will now pass
to examine a little more minutely into the character and use of certain adjectives, and the
manner of their derivation.

We commence with those derived from nouns, both common and proper, which are somewhat peculiar
in their character. I wish you distinctly to bear in mind the use of adjectives. They are words
added to nouns to define or describe them.

Many words which name things, are used as adjectives, with out change; as, ox beef, beef cattle,
paper books, straw hats, bonnet paper. Others admit of change, or addition; as, national character,
a merciful (mercy-ful) man, a gloomy prospect, a famous horse, a golden ball. The syllables
which are added, are parts of words, which are at first compounded with them, till, by frequency
of use, they are incorporated into the same word. "A merciful man" is one who is full of mercy.
A golden ball is one made of gold. This word is sometimes used without change; as, a gold ring.

A numerous portion of these words take the syllable ly, contracted from like, which is still
retained in many words; as, Judas-like, lady-like, gentleman-like. These two last words, are
of late, occasionally used as other words, ladyly, gentlemanly; but the last more frequently
than the former. She behaved very ladily, or ladylike; and his appearance was quite gentlemanly.
But to say ladily appearance, does not yet sound quite soft enough; but it is incorrect only
because it is uncommon. Godly and godlike are both in use, and equally correct, with a nice
shade of difference in meaning.

All grammarians have found a difficulty in the word like, which they were unable to unravel.
They could never account for its use in expressing a relation between two objectives. They
forgot that to be like, one thing must be likened to another, and that it was the very meaning
of this word to express such likeness. John looks like his brother. The looks, the countenance,
or appearance of John, are likened to his brother's looks or appearance. "This machine is more
like the pattern than any I have seen." Here the adjective like takes the comparative degree,
as it is called, to show a nearer resemblance than has been before observed between the things
compared. "He has a statesman-like appearance." I like this apple, because it agrees with my
taste; it has qualities like my notion of what is palateable." In every situation the word
is used to express likeness between two things. It describes one thing by its likeness to another.

Many adjectives are formed from proper nouns by adding an apostrophe and the letter s, except
when the word ends in s, in which case the final s is usually omitted for the sake of euphony.
This, however, was not generally adopted by old writers. It is not observed in the earliest
translations of the Bible into the english language. It is now in common practice. Thus, Montgomery's
monument in front of St. Paul's church; Washington's funeral; Shay's rebelion; England's bitterest
foes; Hamlet's father's ghost; Peter's wife's mother; Todd's, Walker's, Johnson's dictionary;
Winchell's Watts' hymns; Pond's Murray's grammar. No body would suppose that the "relation
of property or possession" was expressed in these cases, as our grammar books tell us, but
that the terms employed are used to define certain objects, about which we are speaking. They
possess the true character and use of adjectives, and as such let them be regarded. It must
be as false as frivolous to say that Montgomery, who nobly fell at the siege of Quebec, owns
the monument erected over his remains, which were conveyed to New-York many years after his
death; or that St. Paul owns or possesses the church beneath which they were deposited; that
Hamlet owned his father, and his father his ghost; that Todd owns Walker, and Walker owns Johnson,
and Johnson his dictionary which may have had a hundred owners, and never been the property
of its author, but printed fifty years after his death. These words, I repeat, are merely definitive
terms, and like others serve to point out or specify particular objects which may thus be better
known.

Words, however, in common use form adjectives the same as other words; as, Russia iron, China
ships, India silks, Vermont cheese, Orange county butter, New-York flour, Carolina potatoes.
Morocco leather was first manufactured in a city of Africa called by that name, but it is now
made in almost every town in our country. The same may be said of Leghorn hats, Russia binding,
French shoes, and China ware. Although made in our own country we still retain the words, morocco,
leghorn, russia, french, and china, to define the fashion, kind, or quality of articles to
which we allude. Much china ware is made in Liverpool, which, to distinguish it from the real,
is called liverpool china. Many french shoes are made in Lynn, and many Roxbury russets, Newton
pippins, and Rhode-Island greenings, grow in Vermont.

It may not be improper here to notice the adjectives derived from pronouns, which retain so
much of their character as relates to the persons who employ them. These are my, thy, his,
her, its, our, your, their, whose. This is my book, that is your pen, this is his knife, and
that is her letter. Some of these, like other words, vary their ending when standing alone;
as, two apples are yours, three hers, six theirs, five ours, and the rest mine. His does not
alter in popular use. Hence the reason why you hear it so often, in common conversation, when
standing without the noun expressed, pronounced as if written hisen. The word other, and some
others, come under the same remark. When the nouns specified are expressed, they take the regular
termination; as, give me these Baldwin apples, and a few others--a few other apples.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a class of small words which from the frequency of their use have, like pronouns,
lost their primitive character, and are now preserved only as adjectives. Let us examine a
few of them by endeavoring to ferret out their true meaning and application in the expression
of ideas. We will begin with the old articles, a, an, and the, by testing the truth and propriety
of the duty commonly assigned to them in our grammars.

The standard grammar asserts that "an article is a word prefixed to substantives, to point
them out, and to show how far their signification extends; as, "a garden, an eagle, the woman."
Skepticism in grammar is no crime, so we will not hesitate to call in question the correctness
of this "best of all grammars beyond all comparison." Let us consider the very examples given.
They were doubtless the best that could be found. Does a "point out" the garden, or "show how
far its signification extends?" It does neither of these things. It may name "any" garden,
and it certainly does not define whether it is a great or a small one. It simply determines
that one garden is the subject of remark. All else is to be determined by the word garden.

We are told there are two articles, the one indefinite, the other definite--a is the former,
and the the latter. I shall leave it with you to reconcile the apparent contradiction of an
indefinite article which "is used in a vague sense, to point out the signification of another
word." But I challenge teachers to make their pupils comprehend such a jargon, if they can
do it themselves. But it is as good sense as we find in many of the popular grammars of the day.

Again, Murray says "a becomes an before a vowel or silent h;" and so say all his simplifying
satellites after him. Is such the fact? Is he right? He is, I most unqualifiedly admit, with
this little correction, the addition of a single word--he is right wrong! Instead of a becoming
an, the reverse is the fact. The word is derived directly from the same word which still stands
as our first numeral. It was a short time since written ane, as any one may see by consulting
all old books. By and by it dropped the e, and afterwards, for the sake of euphony, in certain
cases, the n, so that now it stands a single letter. You all have lived long enough to have
noticed the changes in the word. Formerly we said an union, an holiday, an universalist, an
unitarian, &c., expressions which are now rarely heard. We now say a union, &c. This single
instance proves that arbitrary rules of grammar have little to do in the regulation of language.
Its barriers are of sand, soon removed. It will not be said that this is an unimportant mistake,
for, if an error, it is pernicious, and if a grammarian knows enough to say that a becomes
an, he ought to know that he tells a falsehood, and that an becomes a under certain circumstances.
Mr. Murray gives the following example to illustrate the use of a. "Give me a book; that is,
any book." How can the learner understand such a rule? How will it apply? Let us try it. "A
man has a wife;" that is, any man has any wife. I have a hat; that is, any hat. A farmer has
a farm--any farmer has any farm. A merchant in Boston has a beautiful piece of broadcloth--any
merchant in Boston has any beautiful piece of broadcloth. A certain king of Europe decreed
a protestant to be burned--any king of Europe decreed any protestant to be burned. How ridiculous
are the rules we have learned and taught to others, to enable them to "speak and write with
propriety." No wonder we never understood grammar, if so at variance with truth and every day's
experience. The rules of grammar as usually taught can never be observed in practice. Hence
it is called a dry study. In every thing else we learn something that we can understand, which
will answer some good purpose in the affairs of life. But this branch of science is among the
things which have been tediously learned to no purpose. No good account can be given of its
advantages.

The, we are told, "is called the definite article, because it ascertains what particular thing
or things are meant." A most unfortunate definition, and quite as erroneous as the former.
Let us try it. The stars shine, the lion roars, the camel is a beast of burden, the deer is
good for food, the wind blows, the clouds appear, the Indians are abused. What is there in
these examples, which "ascertain what particular thing or things are meant?" They are expressions
as indefinite as we can imagine.

On the other hand, should I say a star shines, a lion roars, an Indian is abused, a wind blows,
a cloud appears, you would understand me to allude very definitely to one "particular" object,
as separate and distinguished from others of its kind.

But what is the wonderful peculiarity in the meaning and use of these two little words that
makes them so unlike every thing else, as to demand a separate "part of speech?" You may be
surprised when I tell you that there are other words in our language derived from the same
source and possessed of the same meaning; but such is the fact, as will soon appear. Let us
ask for the etymology of these important words. A signifies one, never more, never less. In
this respect it is always definite. It is sometimes applied to a single thing, sometimes to
a whole class of things, to a [one] man, or to a [one] hundred men. It may be traced thro other
languages, ancient and modern, with little modification in spelling; Greek eis, ein; Latin
unus; Armoric unan; Spanish and Italian uno; Portuguese hum; French un; German ein; Danish
een, en; Dutch een; Swedish en; Saxon, an, aen, one--from which ours is directly derived--old
English ane; and more modernly one, an, a. In all languages it defines a thing to be one, a
united or congregated whole, and the word one may always be substituted without affecting the
sense. From it is derived our word once, which signifies oned, united, joined, as we shall
see when we come to speak of "contractions." In some languages a is styled an article, in others
it is not. The Latin, for instance, has no article, and the Greek has no indefinite. But all
languages have words which are like ours, pure adjectives, employed to specify certain things.
The argument drawn from the fact that some other languages have articles, and therefore ours
should, is fallacious. The Latin, which was surpassed for beauty of style or power in deliverance
by few, if any others, never suffered from the lack of articles. Nor is there any reason why
we should honor two small adjectives with that high rank to the exclusion of others quite as
worthy.

The is always used as a definitive word, tho it is the least definite of the defining adjectives.
In fact when we desire to "ascertain particularly what thing is meant," we select some more
definite word. "Give me the books." Which? "Those with red covers, that in calf, and this in
Russia binding." The nations are at peace. What nations? Those which were at war. You perceive
how we employ words which are more definite, that is, better understood, to "point out" the
object of conversation, especially when there is any doubt in the case. What occasion, then,
is there to give these [the?] words a separate "part of speech," since in character they do
not differ from others in the language?

We will notice another frivolous distinction made by Mr. Murray, merely to show how learned
men may be mistaken, and the folly of trusting to special rules in the general application
of words. He says, "Thou art a man," is a very general and harmless expression; but, thou art
the man, (as Nathan said to David,) is an assertion capable of striking terror and remorse
into the heart." The distinction in meaning here, on which he insists, attaches to the articles
a and the. It is a sufficient refutation of this definition to make a counter statement. Suppose
we say, "Murray is the best grammarian in the world; or, he is a fool, a knave, and a liar."
Which, think you, would be considered the most harmless expression? Suppose it had been said
to Aaron Burr, thou art a traitor, or to General William Hull, thou art a coward, would they
regard the phrase as "harmless!" On the other hand, suppose a beautiful, accomplished, and
talented young lady, should observe to one of her suitors, "I have received offers of marriage
from several gentlemen besides yourself, but thou art =the= man of my choice;" would it, think
you, strike terror and remorse into his heart? I should pity the young student of Murray whose
feelings had become so stoical from the false teaching of his author as to be filled with "terror
and remorse" under such favorable circumstances, while fair prospects of future happiness were
thus rapidly brightening before him. I speak as to the wise, judge ye what I say.

The adjective that has obtained a very extensive application in language. However, it may seem
to vary in its different positions, it still retains its primitive meaning. It is comprised
of the and it, thait, theat, thaet (Saxon,) thata (Gothic,) dat (Dutch.) It is the most decided
definitive in our language. It is by use applied to things in the singular, or to a multitude
of things regarded as a whole. By use, it applies to a collection of ideas expressed in a sentence;
as, it was resolved, that. What? Then follows that fact which was resolved. "Provided that,
in case he does" so and so. "It was agreed that," that fact was agreed to which is about to
be made known. I wish you to understand, all thro these lectures, that I shall honestly endeavor
to expose error and establish truth. Wish you to understand what? that fact, afterwards stated,
"I shall endeavor," &c. You can not mistake my meaning: that would be impossible. What would
be impossible? Why, to mistake my meaning.

You can not fail to observe the true character of this word called by our grammarians "adjective
pronoun," "relative pronoun," and "conjunction." They did not think to look for its meaning.
Had that (duty) been done, it would have stood forth in its true character, an important defining
word.

The only difficulty in the explanation of this word, originates in the fact, that it was formerly
applied to the plural as well as singular number. It is now applied to the singular only when
referring directly to an object; as, that man. And it never should be used otherwise. But we
often see phrases like this; "These are the men that rebeled." It should be, "these are the
men who rebeled." This difficulty can not be overcome in existing grammars on any other ground.
In modern writings, such instances are rare. This and that are applied to the singular; these
and those to the plural.

       *       *       *       *       *

=What= is a compound of two original words, and often retains the meaning of both, when employed
as a compound relative, "having in itself both the antecedent and the relative," as our authors
tell us. But when it is dissected, it will readily enough be understood to be an adjective,
defining things under particular relations.

But I shall weary your patience, I fear, if I stay longer in this place to examine the etymology
of small words. I intended to have shown the meaning and use of many words included in the
list of conjunctions, which are truly adjectives, such as both, as, so, neither, and, etc.;
but I let them pass for the present, to be resumed under the head of contractions.

From the view we have given of this class of words, we are saved the tediousness of studying
the grammatical distinctions made in the books, where no real distinctions exist. In character
these words are like adjectives; their meaning, like the meaning of all other words, is peculiar
to themselves. Let that be known, and there will be little difficulty in classing them. Children
will be slow to apprehend the propriety of a union of adjectives and pronouns, when told that
the former is always used with a noun, and never for one; and the latter always for a noun,
but never with one; and yet, that there is such a strange combination as a "distributive or
indefinite adjective pronoun,"--"confusion worse confounded."

In the french language, the gender of adjectives is varied so as to agree with the nouns to
which they belong. "Possessive pronouns," as they are called, come under the same rule, which
proves them to be in character, and formation, adjectives; else the person using them must
change gender. The father says, ma (feminine) fille, my daughter; and the mother, mon (masculine)
fils, my son; the same as they would say, bon pere, good father; bonne mere, good mother; or,
in Latin, bonus pater, or bona mater; or, in Spanish, bueno padre, buena madre. In the two
last languages, as well as all others, where the adjectives vary the termination so as to agree
with the noun, the same fact may be observed in reference to their "pronouns." If it is a fact
that these words are pronouns, that is, stand for other nouns, then the father is feminine,
and the mother is masculine; and whoever uses them in reference to the opposite sex must change
gender to do so.

       *       *       *       *       *

Describing adjectives admit of variation to express different degrees of comparison. The regular
degrees have been reckoned three; positive, comparative, and superlative. These are usually
marked by changing the termination. The positive is determined by a comparison with other things;
as, a great house, a small book, compared with others of their kind. This is truly a comparative
degree. The comparative adds er; as, a greater house, a smaller book. The superlative, est;
as, the greatest house, the smallest book.

Several adjectives express a comparison less than the positive, others increase or diminish
the regular degrees; as, whitish white, very white, pure white; whiter, considerable whiter,
much whiter; whitest, the very whitest, much the whitest beyond all comparison, so that there
can be none whiter, nor so white.

We make an aukward use of the words great and good, in the comparison of things; as, a good
deal, or great deal whiter; a good many men, or a great many men. As we never hear of a small
deal, or a bad deal whiter, nor of a bad many, nor little many, it would be well to avoid such
phrases.

The words which are added to other adjectives, to increase or diminish the comparison, or assist
in their definition, may properly be called secondary adjectives, for such is their character.
They do not refer to the thing to be defined or described, but to the adjective which is affected,
in some way, by them. They are easily distinguished from the rest by noticing this fact. Take
for example: "A very dark red raw silk lady's dress handkerchief." The resolution of this sentence
would stand thus:

    A (                                               ) handkerchief.
     A  (           ) red (                           ) handkerchief.
     A  (    ) dark  red  (                           ) handkerchief.
     A  very  dark   red  (                           ) handkerchief.
     A   very   dark   red  (   ) silk (              ) handkerchief.
     A   very   dark   red  raw  silk  (              ) handkerchief.
     A   very   dark   red   raw   silk  (      ) dress handkerchief.
     A   very   dark   red   raw   silk  lady's  dress  handkerchief.

We might also observe that hand is an adjective, compounded by use with kerchief. It is derived
from the french word couvrir, to cover, and chef, the head. It means a head dress, a cloth
to cover, a neck cloth, a napkin. By habit we apply it to a single article, and speak of neck
handkerchief.

The nice shade of meaning, and the appropriate use of adjectives, is more distinctly marked
in distinguishing colors than in any thing else, for the simple reason, that there is nothing
in nature so closely observed. For instance, take the word green, derived from grain, because
it is grain color, or the color of the fair carpet of nature in spring and summer. But this
hue changes from the deep grass green, to the light olive, and words are chosen to express
the thousand varying tints produced by as many different objects. In the adaptation of language
to the expression of ideas, we do not separate these shades of color from the things in which
such colors are supposed to reside. Hence we talk of grass, pea, olive, leek, verdigris, emerald,
sea, and bottle green; also, of light, dark, medium; very light, or dark grass, pea, olive,
or invisible green.

Red, as a word, means rayed. It describes the appearance or substance produced when rayed,
reddened, or radiated by the morning beams of the sun, or any other radiating cause.

Wh is used for qu, in white, which means quite, quited, quitted, cleared, cleansed of all color,
spot, or stain.

Blue is another spelling for blew. Applied to color, it describes something in appearance to
the sky, when the clouds and mists are blown away, and the clear blue ether appears.

You will be pleased with the following extract from an eloquent writer of the last century,[9]
who, tho somewhat extravagant in some of his speculations, was, nevertheless, a close observer
of nature, which he studied as it is, without the aid of human theories. The beauty of the
style, and the correctness of the sentiment, will be a sufficient apology for its length.

"We shall employ a method, not quite so learned, to convey an idea of the generation of colors,
and the decomposition of the solar ray. Instead of examining them in a prism of glass, we shall
consider them in the heavens, and there we shall behold the five primordial colours unfold
themselves in the order which we have indicated.

"In a fine summer's night, when the sky is loaded only with some light vapours, sufficient
to stop and to refract the rays of the sun, walk out into an open plain, where the first fires
of Aurora may be perceptible. You will first observe the horizon whiten at the spot where she
is to make her appearance; and this radiance, from its colour, has procured for it, in the
French language, the name of aube, (the dawn,) from the Latin word alba, white. This whiteness
insensibly ascends in the heavens, assuming a tint of yellow some degrees above the horizon;
the yellow as it rises passes into orange; and this shade of orange rises upward into the lively
vermilion, which extends as far as the zenith. From that point you will perceive in the heavens
behind you the violet succeeding the vermilion, then the azure, after it the deep blue or indigo
colour, and, last of all, the black, quite to the westward.

"Though this display of colours presents a multitude of intermediate shades, which rapidly
succeed each other, yet at the moment the sun is going to exhibit his disk, the dazzling white
is visible in the horizon, the pure yellow at an elevation of forty-five degrees; the fire
color in the zenith; the pure blue forty-five degrees under it, toward the west; and in the
very west the dark veil of night still lingering on the horizon. I think I have remarked this
progression between the tropics, where there is scarcely any horizontal refraction to make
the light prematurely encroach on the darkness, as in our climates.

"Sometimes the trade-winds, from the north-east or south-east, blow there, card the clouds
through each other, then sweep them to the west, crossing and recrossing them over one another,
like the osiers interwoven in a transparent basket. They throw over the sides of this chequered
work the clouds which are not employed in the contexture, roll them up into enormous masses,
as white as snow, draw them out along their extremities in the form of a crupper, and pile
them upon each other, moulding them into the shape of mountains, caverns, and rocks; afterwards,
as evening approaches, they grow somewhat calm, as if afraid of deranging their own workmanship.
When the sun sets behind this magnificent netting, a multitude of luminous rays are transmitted
through the interstices, which produce such an effect, that the two sides of the lozenge illuminated
by them have the appearance of being girt with gold, and the other two in the shade seem tinged
with ruddy orange. Four or five divergent streams of light, emanated from the setting sun up
to the zenith, clothe with fringes of gold the undeterminate summits of this celestial barrier,
and strike with the reflexes of their fires the pyramids of the collateral aerial mountains,
which then appear to consist of silver and vermilion. At this moment of the evening are perceptible,
amidst their redoubled ridges, a multitude of valleys extending into infinity, and distinguishing
themselves at their opening by some shade of flesh or of rose colour.

"These celestial valleys present in their different contours inimitable tints of white, melting
away into white, or shades lengthening themselves out without mixing over other shades. You
see, here and there, issuing from the cavernous sides of those mountains, tides of light precipitating
themselves, in ingots of gold and silver, over rocks of coral. Here it is a gloomy rock, pierced
through and through, disclosing, beyond the aperture, the pure azure of the firmament; there
it is an extensive strand, covered with sands of gold, stretching over the rich ground of heaven;
poppy-coloured, scarlet, and green as the emerald.

"The reverberation of those western colours diffuses itself over the sea, whose azure billows
it glazes with saffron and purple. The mariners, leaning over the gunwale of the ship, admire
in silence those aerial landscapes. Sometimes this sublime spectacle presents itself to them
at the hour of prayer, and seems to invite them to lift up their hearts with their voices to
the heavens. It changes every instant into forms as variable as the shades, presenting celestial
colors and forms which no pencil can pretend to imitate, and no language can describe.

"Travellers who have, at various seasons, ascended to the summits of the highest mountains
on the globe, never could perceive, in the clouds below them, any thing but a gray and lead-colored
surface, similar to that of a lake. The sun, notwithstanding, illuminated them with his whole
light; and his rays might there combine all the laws of refraction to which our systems of
physics have subjected them. Hence not a single shade of color is employed in vain, through
the universe; those celestial decorations being made for the level of the earth, their magnificent
point of view taken from the habitation of man.

"These admirable concerts of lights and forms, manifest only in the lower region of the clouds
the least illuminated by the sun, are produced by laws with which I am totally unacquainted.
But the whole are reducible to five colors: yellow, a generation from white; red, a deeper
shade of yellow; blue, a strong tint of red; and black, the extreme tint of blue. This progression
cannot be doubted, on observing in the morning the expansion of the light in the heavens. You
there see those five colors, with their intermediate shades, generating each other nearly in
this order: white, sulphur yellow, lemon yellow, yolk of egg yellow, orange, aurora color,
poppy red, full red, carmine red, purple, violet, azure, indigo, and black. Each color seems
to be only a strong tint of that which precedes it, and a faint tint of that which follows;
thus the whole together appear to be only modulations of a progression, of which white is the
first term, and black the last.

"Indeed trade cannot be carried on to any advantage, with the Negroes, Tartars, Americans,
and East-Indians, but through the medium of red cloths. The testimonies of travellers are unanimous
respecting the preference universally given to this color. I have indicated the universality
of this taste, merely to demonstrate the falsehood of the philosophic axiom, that tastes are
arbitrary, or that there are in Nature no laws for beauty, and that our tastes are the effects
of prejudice. The direct contrary of this is the truth; prejudice corrupts our natural tastes,
otherwise the same over the whole earth.

"With red Nature heightens the brilliant parts of the most beautiful flowers. She has given
a complete clothing of it to the rose, the queen of the garden: and bestowed this tint on the
blood, the principle of life in animals: she invests most of the feathered race, in India,
with a plumage of this color, especially in the season of love; and there are few birds without
some shades, at least, of this rich hue. Some preserve entirely the gray or brown ground of
their plumage, but glazed over with red, as if they had been rolled in carmine; others are
besprinkled with red, as if you had blown a scarlet powder over them.

"The red (or rayed) color, in the midst of the five primordial colors, is the harmonic expression
of them by way of excellence; and the result of the union of two contraries, light and darkness.
There are, besides, agreeable tints, compounded of the oppositions of extremes. For example,
of the second and fourth color, that is, of yellow and blue, is formed green, which constitutes
a very beautiful harmony, and ought, perhaps, to possess the second rank in beauty, among colors,
as it possesses the second in their generation. Nay, green appears to many, if not the most
beautiful tint, at least the most lovely, because it is less dazzling than red, and more congenial
to the eye."

Many words come under the example previously given to illustrate the secondary character of
adjectives, which should be carefully noticed by the learner, to distinguish whether they define
or describe things, or are added to increase the distinction made by the adjectives themselves,
for both defining and describing adjectives admit of this addition; as, old English coin, New
England rebelion; a mounted whip, and a gold mounted sword--not a gold sword; a very fine Latin
scholar.

Secondary adjectives, also, admit of comparison in various ways; as, dearly beloved, a more
beloved, the best beloved, the very best beloved brother.

Words formerly called "prepositions," admit of comparison, as I have before observed. "Benhadad
fled into an inner chamber." The inner temple. The inmost recesses of the heart. The out fit
of a squadron. The outer coating of a vessel, or house. The utmost reach of grammar. The up
and down hill side of a field. The upper end of the lot. The uppermost seats. A part of the
book. Take it farther off. The off cast. India beyond the Ganges. Far beyond the boundaries
of the nation. I shall go to the city. I am near to the town. Near does not qualify the verb,
for it has nothing to do with it. I can exist in one place as well as another. It is below
the surface; very far below it. It is above the earth--"high above all height."

Such expressions frequently occur in the expression of ideas, and are correctly understood;
as difficult as it may have been to describe them with the theories learned in the books--sometimes
calling them one thing, sometimes another--when their character and meaning was unchanged,
or, according to old systems, had "no meaning at all of their own!"

But I fear I have gone far beyond your patience, and, perhaps, entered deeper into this subject
than was necessary, to enable you to discover my meaning. I desired to make the subject as
distinct as possible, that all might see the important improvement suggested. I am apprehensive
even now, that some will be compelled to think many profound thoughts before they will see
the end of the obscurity under which they have long been shrouded, in reference to the false
rules which they have been taught. But we have one consolation--those who are not bewildered
by the grammars they have tried in vain to understand, will not be very likely to make a wrong
use of adjectives, especially if they have ideas to express; for there is no more danger of
mistaking an adjective for a noun, or verb, than there is of mistaking a horse chestnut for
a chestnut horse.

       *       *       *       *       *

In our next we shall commence the consideration of Verbs, the most important department in
the science of language, and particularly so in the system we are defending. I hope you have
not been uninterested thus far in the prosecution of the subject of language, and I am confident
you will not be in what remains to be said upon it. The science, so long regarded dry and uninteresting,
becomes delightful and easy; new and valuable truths burst upon us at each advancing step,
and we feel to bless God for the ample means afforded us for obtaining knowledge from, and
communicating it to others, on the most important affairs of time and eternity.

We now come to the consideration of that class of words which in the formation of language
are called Verbs. You will allow me to bespeak your favorable attention, and to insist most
strenuously on the propriety of a free and thoro examination into the nature and use of these
words. I shall be under the necessity of performing the thankless task of exposing the errors
of honest, wise, and good men, in order to remove difficulties which have long existed in works
on language, and clear the way for a more easy and consistent explanation of this interesting
and essential department of literature. I regret the necessity for such labors; but no person
who wishes the improvement of mankind, or is willing to aid the growth of the human intellect,
in its high aspirations after truth, knowledge, and goodness, should shrink from a frank exposition
of what he deems to be error, nor refuse his assistance, feeble tho it may be, in the establishment
of correct principles.

In former lectures we have confined our remarks to things and a description of their characters
and relations, so that every entity of which we can conceive a thought, or concerning which
we can form an expression, has been defined and described in the use of nouns and adjectives.
Every thing in creation, of which we think, material or immaterial, real or imaginary, and
to which we give a name, to represent the idea of it, comes under the class of words called
nouns. The words which specify or distinguish one thing from another, or describe its properties,
character, or relations, are designated as adjectives. There is only one other employment left
for words, and that is the expression of the actions, changes, or inherent tendencies of things.
This important department of knowledge is, in grammar, classed under the head of =Verbs=.

       *       *       *       *       *

Verb is derived from the Latin verbum, which signifies a word. By specific application it is
applied to those words only which express action, correctly understood; the same as Bible,
derived from the Greek "biblos" means literally the book, but, by way of eminence, is applied
to the sacred scriptures only.

This interesting class of words does not deviate from the correct principles which we have
hitherto observed in these lectures. It depends on established laws, exerted in the regulation
of matter and thought; and whoever would learn its sublime use must be a close observer of
things, and the mode of their existence. The important character it sustains in the production
of ideas of the changes and tendencies of things and in the transmission of thought, will be
found simple, and obvious to all.

Things exist; Nouns name them.

Things differ; Adjectives define or describe them.

Things act; Verbs express their actions.

    All Verbs denote action.

By action, we mean not only perceivable motion, but an inherent tendency to change, or resist
action. It matters not whether we speak of animals possessed of the power of locomotion; of
vegetables, which send forth their branches, leaves, blossoms, and fruits; or of minerals,
which retain their forms, positions, and properties. The same principles are concerned, the
same laws exist, and should be observed in all our attempts to understand their operations,
or employ them in the promotion of human good. Every thing acts according to the ability it
possesses; from the small particle of sand, which occupies its place upon the sea shore, up
thro the various gradation of being, to the tall archangel, who bows and worships before the
throne of the uncreated Cause of all things and actions which exist thro out his vast dominions.

As all actions presuppose an actor, so every action must result on some object. No effect can
exist without an efficient cause to produce it; and no cause can exist without a corresponding
effect resulting from it. These mutual relations, helps, and dependencies, are manifest in
all creation. Philosophy, religion, the arts, and all science, serve only to develope these
primary laws of nature, which unite and strengthen, combine and regulate, preserve and guide
the whole. From the Eternal I AM, the uncreated, self-existent, self-sustaining =Cause= of
all things, down to the minutest particle of dust, evidences may be traced of the existence
and influence of these laws, in themselves irresistible, exceptionless, and immutable. Every
thing has a place and a duty assigned it; and harmony, peace, and perfection are the results
of a careful and judicious observance of the laws given for its regulation. Any infringement
of these laws will produce disorder, confusion, and distraction.

Man is made a little lower than the angels, possessed of a mind capable of reason, improvement,
and happiness; an intellectual soul inhabiting a mortal body, the connecting link between earth
and heaven--the material and spiritual world. As a physical being, he is subject, in common
with other things, to the laws which regulate matter: as an intellectual being, he is governed
by the laws which regulate mind: as possessed of both a body and mind, a code of moral laws
demand his observance in all the social relations and duties of life. Obedience to these laws
is the certain source of health of body, and peace of mind. An infringement of them will as
certainly be attended with disease and suffering to the one, and sorrow and anguish to the other.

Lower grades of animals partake of many qualities in common with man. In some they are deficient;
in others they are superior. Some animals are possessed of all but reason, and even in that,
the highest of them come very little short of the lowest of the human species. If they have
not reason, they possess an instinct which nearly approaches it. These qualities dwindle down
gradually thro the various orders and varieties of animated nature, to the lowest grade of
animalculæ, a multitude of which may inhabit a single drop of water; or to the zoophytes and
lythophytes, which form the connecting link between the animal and vegetable kingdom; as the
star-fish, the polypus, and spunges. Then strike off into another kingdom, and observe the
laws vegetable life. Mark the tall pine which has grown from a small seed which sent forth
its root downwards and its trunk upwards, drawing nourishment from earth, air, and water, till
it now waves its top to the passing breeze, a hundred feet above this dirty earth: or the oak
or olive, which have maintained their respective positions a dozen centuries despite the operations
of wind and weather, and have shed their foliage and their seeds to propagate their species
and extend their kinds to different places. While a hundred generations have lived and died,
and the country often changed masters, they resist oppression, scorn misrule, and retain rights
and privileges which are slowly encroached upon by the inroads of time, which will one day
triumph over them, and they fall helpless to the earth, to submit to the chemical operations
which shall dissolve their very being and cause them to mingle with the common dust, yielding
their strength to give life and power to other vegetables which shall occupy their places.[10]
Or mark the living principle in the "sensitive plant," which withers at every touch, and suffers
long ere it regains its former vigor.

Descend from thence, down thro the various gradations of vegetable life, till you pass the
narrow border and enter the mineral world. Here you will see displayed the same sublime principle,
tho in a modified degree. Minerals assume different shapes, hues and relations; they increase
and diminish, attach and divide under various circumstances, all the while retaining their
identity and properties, and exerting their abilities according to the means they possess,
till compelled to yield to a superior power, and learn to submit to the laws which operate
in every department of this mutable world.

Every thing acts according to the ability God has bestowed upon it; and man can do no more.
He has authority over all things on earth, and yet he is made to depend upon all. His authority
extends no farther than a privilege, under wholesome restrictions, of making the whole subservient
to his real good. When he goes beyond this, he usurps a power which belongs not to him, and
the destruction of his happiness pays the forfeit of his imprudence. The injured power rises
triumphant over the aggressor, and the glory of God's government, in the righteous and immediate
execution of his laws, is clearly revealed. So long as man obeys the laws which regulate health,
observes temperance in all things, uses the things of this world as not abusing them, he is
at rest, he is blessed, he is happy: but no sooner has he violated heaven's law than he becomes
the slave, and the servant assumes the master. But I am digressing. I would gladly follow this
subject further, but I shall go beyond my limits, and, it may be, your patience.

I would insist, however, on the facts to which your attention has been given, for it is impossible,
as I have before contended, to use language correctly without a knowledge of the things and
ideas it is employed to represent.

Grovelling, indeed, must be the mind which will not trace the sublime exhibitions of Divine
power and skill in all the operations of nature; and false must be that theory which teaches
the young mind to think and speak of neutrality as attached to things which do exist. As low
and debasing as the speculations of the schoolmen were, they gave to things which they conceived
to be incapable of action, a principle which they called "vis inertiæ," or, power to lie still.
Shall our systems of instruction descend below them, throw an insurmountable barrier in the
way of human improvement, and teach the false principles that actions can exist without an
effect, or that there is a class of words which "express neither action or passion." Such a
theory is at war with the first principles of philosophy, and denies that "like causes produce
like effects."

The ablest minds have never been able to explain the foundation of a "neuter verb," or to find
a single word, with a solitary exception, which does not, in certain conditions, express a
positive action, and terminate on a definite object; and that exception we shall see refers
to a verb which expresses the highest degree of conceivable action. Still they have insisted
on three and some on four kinds of verbs, one expressing action, another passion or suffering,
and the third neutrality. We propose to offer a brief review of these distinctions, which have
so long perplexed, not only learners, but teachers themselves, and been the fruitful source
of much dissention among grammarians.

It is to be hoped you will come up to this work with as great candor as you have heretofore
manifested, and as fully resolved to take nothing for granted, because it has been said by
good or great men, and to reject nothing because it appears new or singular. Let truth be our
object and reason our guide to direct us to it. We can not fail of arriving at safe and correct
conclusions.

Mr. Murray tells us that "verbs are of three kinds, active, passive, and neuter. In a note
he admits of "active transitive and intransitive verbs," as a subdivision of his first kind.
Most of his "improvers" have adopted this distinction, and regard it as of essential importance.

We shall contend, as before expressed, that all verbs are of one kind, that they express action,
for the simple yet sublime reason, that every thing acts, at all times, and under every possible
condition; according to the true definition of action as understood and employed by all writers
on grammar, and natural and moral science. Here we are at issue. Both, contending for principles
so opposite, can not be correct. One or the other, however pure the motives, must be attached
to a system wrong in theory, and of course pernicious in practice. You are to be the umpires
in the case, and, if you are faithful to your trust, you will not be bribed or influenced in
the least by the opinions of others. If divested of all former attachments, if free from all
prejudice, there can be no doubt of the safety and correctness of your conclusions. But I am
apprehensive I expect too much, if I place the new system of grammar on a footing equally favorable
in your minds with those you have been taught to respect, as the only true expositions of language,
from your childhood up, and which are recommended to you on the authority of the learned and
good of many generations. I have to combat early prejudices, and systems long considered as
almost sacred. But I have in my favor the common sense of the world, and a feeling of opposition
to existing systems, which has been produced, not so much by a detection of their errors, as
by a lack of capacity, as the learner verily thought, to understand their profound mysteries.
I am, therefore, willing to risk the final decision with you, if you will decide. But I am
not willing to have you made the tools of the opposite party, determined, whether convinced
or not, to hold to your old neuter verb systems, right or wrong, merely because others are
doing so. All I ask is your adoption of what is proved to be undeniably true, and rejection
of whatever is found to be false.

Here is where the matter must rest, for it will not be pretended that it is better to teach
falsehood because it is ancient and popular, than truth because it is novel. Teachers, in this
respect, stand in a most responsible relation to their pupils. They should always insist with
an unyielding pertinacity, on the importance of truth, and the evils of error. Every trifling
incident, in the course of education, which will serve to show the contrast, should be particularly
observed. If an error can be detected in their books, they should be so taught as to be able
to correct it; and they should be so inclined as to be willing to do it. They should not be
skeptics, however, but close observers, original thinkers, and correct reasoners. It is degrading
to the true dignity and independence of man, to submit blindly to any proposition. Freedom
of thought is the province of all. Children should be made to breathe the free air of honest
inquiry, and to inhale the sweet spirit of truth and charity. They should not study their books
as the end of learning, but as a means of knowing. Books should be regarded as lamps, which
are set by the way side, not as the objects to be looked at, but the aids by which we may find
the object of our search. Knowledge and usefulness constitute the leading motives in all study,
and no occasion should be lost, no means neglected, which will lead the young mind to their
possession.

Your attention is now invited to some critical remarks on the distinctions usually observed
in the use of verbs. Let us carefully examine the meaning of these three kinds and see if there
is any occasion for such a division; if they have any foundation in truth, or application in
the correct use of language. We will follow the arrangements adopted by the most popular grammars.
A very excellent definition, indeed! Had grammarians stopped here, their works would have been
understood, and proved of some service in the study of language. But when they diverge from
this bright spot in the consideration of verbs--this oasis in the midst of a desert--they soon
become lost in the surrounding darkness of conjecture, and follow each their own dim light,
to hit on a random track, which to follow in the pursuit of their object.

We give our most hearty assent to the above definition of a verb. It expresses action, which
necessarily implies an actor, and an object influenced by the action. In our estimation it
matters not whether the object on which the action terminates is expressed or understood. If
I love, I must love some object; either my neighbor, my enemy, my family, myself, or something
else. In either case the action is the same, tho the objects may be different; and it is regarded,
on all hands, as an active verb. Hence when the object on which the action terminates is not
expressed, it is necessarily understood. All language is, in this respect, more or less eliptical,
which adds much to its richness and brevity.

Active verbs, we are told, are divided into transitive and intransitive. Mr. Murray does not
exactly approve of this distinction, but prefers to class the intransitive and neuter together.
Others, aware of the fallacy of attempting to make children conceive any thing like neutrality
in the verbs, run, fly, walk, live, &c., have preferred to mark the distinction and call them
intransitive; because, say they, they do not terminate on any object expressed.

A transitive verb "expresses an action which passes from the agent to the object; as, Cæsar
conquered Pompey." To this definition we can not consent. It attempts a distinction where there
is none. It is not true in principle, and can not be adopted in practice.

"Cæsar conquered Pompey." Did the act of conquering pass transitively over from Cæsar to Pompey?
They might not have seen each other during the whole battle, nor been within many miles of
each other. They, each of them, stood at the head of their armies, and alike gave orders to
their subordinate officers, and they again to their inferiors, and so down, each man contending
valiantly for victory, till, at last, the fate of the day sealed the downfall of Pompey, and
placed the crown of triumph on the head of Cæsar. The expression is a correct one, but the
action expressed by the verb "conquered," is not transitive, as that term is understood. A
whole train of causes was put in operation which finally terminated in the defeat of one, and
the conquest of the other.

"Bonaparte lost the battle of Waterloo." What did he do to lose the battle? He exerted his
utmost skill to gain the battle and escape defeat. He did not do a single act, he entertained
not a single thought, which lead to such a result; but strove against it with all his power.
If the fault was his, it was because he failed to act, and not because he labored to lose the
battle. He had too much at stake to adopt such a course, and no man but a teacher of grammar,
would ever accuse him of acting to lose the battle.

"A man was sick; he desired to recover (his health). He took, for medicine, opium by mistake,
and lost his life by it." Was he guilty of suicide? Certainly, if our grammars are true. But
he lost his life in trying to get well.

"A man in America possesses property in Europe, and his children inherit it after his death."
What do the children do to inherit this property, of which they know nothing?

"The geese, by their gabbling, saved Rome from destruction." How did the geese save the city?
They made a noise, which waked the sentinels, who roused the soldiers to arms; they fought,
slew many Gauls, and delivered the city.

"A man in New-York transacts business in Canton." How does he do it? He has an agent there
to whom he sends his orders, and he transacts the business. But how does he get his letters?
The clerk writes them, the postman carries them on board the ship, the captain commands the
sailors, who work the ropes which unfurl the sails, the wind blows, the vessel is managed by
the pilot, and after a weary voyage of several months, the letters are delivered to the agent,
who does the business that is required of him.

The miser denies himself every comfort, and spends his whole life in hoarding up riches; and
yet he dies and leaves his gold to be the possession of others.

Christians suffer insults almost every day from the Turks.

Windows admit light and exclude cold.

Who can discover any thing like transitive action--a passing from the agent to the object--in
these cases? What transitive action do the windows perform to admit the light; or the christians,
to suffer insults; or the miser, to leave his money? If there is neutrality any where, we would
look for it here. The fact is, these words express relative action, as we shall explain when
we come to the examination of the true character of the verb.

Neutrality signifies (transitive verb!) no action, and neuter verbs express a state of being!
A class of words which can not act, which apply to things in a quiescent state, perform the
transitive action of "expressing a state of being!"

Who does not perceive the inconsistency and folly of such distinctions? And who has not found
himself perplexed, if not completely bewildered in the dark and intricate labyrinths into which
he has been led by the false grammar books! Every attempt he has made to extricate himself,
by the dim light of the "simplifiers," has only tended to bewilder him still more, till he
is utterly confounded, or else abandons the study altogether.

       *       *       *       *       *

An intransitive verb "denotes action which is confined to the actor, and does not pass over
to another object; as, I sit, he lives, they sleep."

"A verb neuter expresses neither action nor passion, but being, or a state of being; as, I
am, I sleep, I sit."

These verbs are nearly allied in character; but we will examine them separately and fairly.
The examples are the same, with exception of the verb to be, which we will notice by itself,
and somewhat at large, in another place.

Our first object will be to ascertain the meaning and use of the words which have been given
as samples of neutrality. It is unfortunate for the neuter systems that they can not define
a "neuter verb" without making it express an action which terminates on some object.

       *       *       *

"The man sits in his chair."

Sits, we are told, is a neuter verb. What does it mean? The man places himself in a sitting
posture in his seat. He keeps himself in his chair by muscular energy, assisted by gravitation.
The chair upholds him in that condition. Bring a small child and sit it (active verb,) in a
chair beside him. Can it sit? No; it falls upon the floor and is injured. Why did it fall?
It was not able to keep itself from falling. The lady fainted and fell from her seat. If there
is no action in sitting, why did she not remain as she was? A company of ladies and gentlemen
from the boarding school and college, entered the parlor of a teacher of neuter verbs; and
he asked them to sit down, or be seated. They were neutral. He called them impolite. But they
replied, that sit "expresses neither action nor passion," and hence he could not expect them
to occupy his seats.

"Sit or set it away; sit near me; sit farther along; sit still;" are expressions used by every
teacher in addressing his scholars. On the system we are examining, what would they understand
by such inactive expressions? Would he not correct them for disobeying his orders? But what
did he order them to do? Nothing at all, if sit denotes no action.

    "I sat me down and wept."

    "He sat him down by a pillar's base,
    And drew his hand athwart his face."
                              Byron.

    "Then, having shown his wounds, he'd sit him down,
    And, all the live long day, discourse of war."
                              Tragedy of Douglass.
                              King Lear.

    "Sitting, the act of resting on a seat.
    Session, the act of sitting."
                              Johnson's Dictionary.

       *       *       *

"I sleep."

Is sleep a neuter verb? So we are gravely told by our authors. Can grammarians follow their
own rules? If so, they may spend the "live long night" and "its waking hours," without resorting
to "tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep;" for there is no process under heaven whereby
they can procure sleep, unless they sleep it. For one, I can never sleep without sleeping sleep--sometimes
only a short nap. It matters not whether the object is expressed or not. The action remains
the same. The true object is necessarily understood, and it would be superfluous to name it.
Cases, however, often occur where, both in speaking and writing, it becomes indispensable to
mention the object. "The stout hearted have slept their sleep." "They shall sleep the sleep
of death." "They shall sleep the perpetual sleep, and shall not awake." "Sleep on now and take
your rest." The child was troublesome and the mother sung it to sleep, and it slept itself
quiet. A lady took opium and slept herself to death. "Many persons sleep themselves into a
kind of unnatural stupidity." Rip Van Winkle, according to the legend, slept away a large portion
of a common life.

    "Sleep, sleep to-day, tormenting cares."

    "And sleep dull cares away."

Was your sleep refreshing last night? How did you procure it? Let a person who still adheres
to his neuter verbs, that sleep expresses no action, and has no object on which it terminates,
put his theory in practice; he may as well sleep with his eyes open, sitting up, as to lie
himself upon his bed.

A man lodged in an open chamber, and while he was sleeping (doing nothing) he caught a severe
cold (active transitive verb) and had a long run of the fever. Who does not see, not only the
bad, but also the false philosophy of such attempted distinctions? How can you make a child
discover any difference in the act of sleeping, whether there is an object after it, or not?
Is it not the same? And is not the object necessarily implied, whether expressed or not? Can
a person sleep, without procuring sleep?

       *       *       *

"I stand."

The man stands firm in his integrity. Another stands in a very precarious condition, and being
unable to retain his hold, falls down the precipice and is killed. Who is killed? The man,
surely. Why did he fall? Because he could not stand. But there is no action in standing, say
the books.

"Stand by thyself, come not near me?" "Let him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he
fall." If it requires no act to stand, there can be no danger of falling.

"Two pillars stood together; the rest had fallen to the ground. The one on the right was quite
perfect in all its parts. The other resembled it very much, except it had lost its capital,
and suffered some other injuries." How could the latter column, while performing no action
in standing, act transitively, according to our grammars, and do something to resemble the
other? or, what did it do to lose its capital, and suffer other injury?

       *       *       *

"To lie, or lay."

It has been admitted that the verbs before considered are often used as active verbs, and that
there is, in truth, action expressed by them. But when the man has fallen from his seat and
lies upon the floor, it is contended that he no longer acts, and that lie expresses no action.
He has ceased from physical, muscular action regulated by his will, and is now subject to the
common laws which govern matter.

Let us take a strong example. The book lies or lays on the desk. Now you ask, does that book
perform any action in laying on the desk? I answer, yes; and I will prove it on the principles
of the soundest philosophy, to the satisfaction of every one present. Nor will I deviate from
existing grammars to do it, so far as real action is concerned.

The book lies on the desk. The desk supports the book. Will you parse supports? It is, according
to every system, an active transitive verb. It has an objective case after it on which the
action terminates. But what does the desk do to support the book? It barely resists the action
which the book performs in lying on it. The action of the desk and book is reciprocal. But
if the book does not act, neither can the desk act, for that only repels the force of the book
in pressing upon it in its tendency towards the earth, in obedience to the law of gravitation.
And yet our authors have told us that the desk is active in resisting no action of the book!
No wonder people are unable to understand grammar. It violates the first principles of natural
science, and frames to itself a code of laws, unequal, false, and exceptionable, which bear
no affinity to the rest of the world, and will not apply in the expression of ideas.

I was once lecturing on this subject in one of the cities of New-York. Mrs. W., the distinguished
teacher of one of the most popular Female Seminaries in our country, attended. At the close
of one lecture she remarked that the greatest fault she had discovered in the new system, was
the want of a class of words to express neutrality. Children, she said, conceived ideas of
things in a quiescent state, and words should be taught them by which to communicate such ideas.
I asked her for an example. She gave the rock in the side of the mountain. It had never moved.
It could never act. There it had been from the foundation of the earth, and there it would
remain unaltered and unchanged till time should be no longer. I remarked, that I would take
another small stone and lay it on the great one which could never act, and now we say the great
rock upholds, sustains or supports the small one--all active transitive verbs with an object
expressed.

She replied, she would give it up, for it had satisfied her of a new principle which must be
observed in the exposition of all language, which accords with facts as developed in physical
and mental science.

I continued, not only does that rock act in resisting the force of the small one which lays
upon it, but, by the attraction of gravitation it is able to maintain its position in the side
of the mountain; by cohesion it retains its distinct identity and solidity, and repels all
foreign bodies. It is also subject to the laws which govern the earth in its diurnal and annual
revolutions, and moves in common with other matter at the astonishing rate of a thousand miles
in an hour! Who shall teach children, in these days of light and improvement, the grovelling
doctrine of neutrality, this relic of the peripatetic philosophy? Will parents send their children
to school to learn falsehood? And can teachers be satisfied to remain in ignorance, following
with blind reverence the books they have studied, and refuse to examine new principles, fearing
they shall be compelled to acknowledge former errors and study new principles? They should
remember it is wiser and more honorable to confess a fault and correct it, than it is to remain
permanent in error.

Let us take another example of the verb "to lie." A country pedagogue who has followed his
authorities most devotedly, and taught his pupils that lie is a "neuter verb, expressing neither
action nor passion, but simply being, or a state of being," goes out, during the intermission,
into a grove near by, to exercise himself. In attempting to roll a log up the hill, he makes
a mis-step, and falls (intransitive verb, nothing falls!) to the ground, and the log rolls
(nothing) on to him, and lies across his legs. In this condition he is observed by his scholars
to whom he cries (nothing) for help. "Do (nothing) come (intransitive) and help me." They obey
him and remain neuter, or at least act intransitively, and produce no effects. He cries again
for help and his cries are regarded. They present themselves before him. "Do roll this log
off; it will break my legs." "Oh no, master; how can that be? The log lies on you, does it
not?" "Yes, and it will press me to death." "No, no; that can never be. The log can not act.
=Lies= is a neuter verb, signifying neither action nor passion, but simply being or a state
of being. You have a state of being, and the log has a state of being. It can not harm you.
You must have forgotten the practical application of the truths you have been teaching us."
It would be difficult to explain neuter verbs in such a predicament.

    "Now I lay me down to sleep."

"She died and they laid her beside her lover under the spreading branches of the willow."

"They laid it away so secure that they could never find it."

They laid down to rest themselves after the fatigue of a whole day's journey.

We have now considered the model verbs of the neuter kind, with the exception of the verb =to
be=, which is left for a distinct consideration, being the most active of all verbs. It is
unnecessary to spend much time on this point. The errors I have examined have all been discovered
by teachers of language, long ago, but few have ventured to correct them. An alleviation of
the difficulty has been sought in the adoption of the intransitive verb, which "expresses an
action that is confined to the actor or agent."

The remarks which have been given in the present lecture will serve as a hint to the course
we shall adopt in treating of them, but the more particular examination of their character
and uses, together with some general observation on the agents and objects of verbs, will be
deferred to our next lecture.

We resume the consideration of verbs. We closed our last lecture with the examination of neuter
verbs, as they have been called. It appears to us that evidence strong enough to convince the
most skeptical was adduced to prove that sit, sleep, stand and lie, stand in the same relation
to language as other verbs, that they do not, in any case, express neutrality, but frequently
admit an objective word after them. These are regarded as the most neutral of all the verbs
except to be, which, by the way, expresses the highest degree of action, as we shall see when
we come to inquire into its meaning.

Grammarians have long ago discovered the falsity of the books in the use of a large portion
of verbs which have been called neuter. To obviate the difficulty, some of them have adopted
the distinction of Intransitive verbs, which express action, but terminate on no object; others
still use the term neuter, but teach their scholars that when the object is expressed, it is
active. This distinction has only tended to perplex learners, while it afforded only a temporary
expedient to teachers, by which to dodge the question at issue. So far as the action is concerned,
which it is the business of the verb to express, what is the difference whether "I run, or
run myself?" "A man started in haste. He ran so fast that he ran himself to death." I strike
Thomas, Thomas strikes David, Thomas strikes himself. Where is the difference in the action?
What matters it whether the action passes over to another object, or is confined within itself?

"But," says the objector, "you mistake. An intransitive verb is one where the 'effect is confined
within the subject, and does not pass over to any object.'"

Very well, I think I understand the objection. When Thomas strikes David the effects of the
blow passes over to him. And when he strikes himself, it "is confined within the subject,"
and hence the latter is an intransitive verb.

"No, no; there is an object on which the action terminates, in that case, and so we must call
it a transitive verb."

Will you give me an example of an intransitive verb?

"I run, he walks, birds fly, it rains, the fire burns. No objects are expressed after these
words, so the action is confined within themselves."

I now get your meaning. When the object is expressed the verb is transitive, when it is not
it is intransitive. This distinction is generally observed in teaching, however widely it may
differ from the intention of the makers of grammars. And hence children acquire the habit of
limiting their inquiries to what they see placed before them by others, and do not think for
themselves. When the verb has an objective word after it expressed, they are taught to attach
action to it; but tho the action may be even greater, if the object is not expressed, they
consider the action as widely different in its character, and adopt the false philosophy that
a cause can exist without an effect resulting from it.

We assume this ground, and we shall labor to maintain it, that every verb necessarily presupposes
an agent or actor, an action, and an object acted upon, or affected by the action.

No action, as such, can be known to exist separate from the thing that acts. We can conceive
no idea of action, only by keeping our minds fixed on the acting substance, marking its changes,
movements, and tendencies. "The book moves." In this case the eye rests on the book, and observes
its positions and attitudes, alternating one way and the other. You can separate no action
from the book, nor conceive any idea of it, as a separate entity. Let the book be taken away.
Where now is the action? What can you think or say of it? There is the same space just now
occupied by the book, but no action is perceivable.

The boy rolls his marble upon the floor. All his ideas of the action performed by it are derived
from an observation of the marble. His eye follows it as it moves along the floor. He sees
it in that acting condition. When he speaks of the action as a whole, he thinks where it started
and where it stopped. It is of no importance, so far as the verb is concerned, whether the
marble received an impulse from his hand, or whether the floor was sufficiently inclined to
allow it to roll by its own inherent tendency. The action is, in this case, the obvious change
of the marble.

Our whole knowledge of action depends on an observance of things in a state of motion, or change,
or exerting a tendency to change, or to counteract an opposing substance.

This will be admitted so far as material things are concerned. The same principle holds good
in reference to every thing of which we form ideas, or concerning which we use language. In
our definition of nouns we spoke of immaterial and imaginary things to which we gave names
and which we consider as agencies capable of exerting an influence in the production of effects,
or in resisting actions. It is therefore unimportant whether the action be real or imaginary.
It is still inseparably connected with the thing that acts; and we employ it thus in the construction
of language to express our thoughts. Thus, lions roar; birds sing; minds reflect; fairies dance;
knowledge increases; fancies err; imagination wanders.

This fact should be borne in mind in all our attempts to understand or explain language. The
mind should remain fixed to the acting substance, to observe its changes and relations at different
periods, and in different circumstances. There is no other process by which any knowledge can
be gained of actions. The mind contemplates the acting thing in a condition of change and determines
the precise action by the altered condition of the thing, and thus learns to judge of actions
by their effects. The only method by which we can know whether a vegetable grows or not is
by comparing its form to-day with what it was some days ago. We can not decide on the improvement
of our children only by observing the same rule.

"By their fruits ye shall know them," will apply in physics as well as in morals; for we judge
of causes only by their effects. First principles can never be known. We observe things as
they are, and remember how they have been; and from hence deduce our conclusions in reference
to the cause of things we do not fully understand, or those consequences which will follow
a condition of things as now existing. It is the business of philosophy to mark these effects,
and trace them back to the causes which produced them, by observing all the intermediate changes,
forms, attitudes, and conditions, in which such things have, at different times, been placed.

We say, "trees grow." But suppose no change had ever been observed in trees, that they had
always been as they now are; in stature as lofty, in foliage as green and beautiful, in location
unaltered. Who would then say, "trees grow?"

In this single expression a whole train of facts are taken into the account, tho not particularly
marked. As a single expression we imply that trees increase their stature. But this we all
know could never be effected without the influence of other causes. The soil where it stands
must contain properties suited to the growth of the tree. A due portion of moisture and heat
are also requisite. These facts all exist, and are indispensable to make good the expression
that the "tree grows." We might also trace the capabilities of the tree itself, its roots,
bark, veins or pores, fibres or grains, its succulent and absorbent powers. But, as in the
case of the "man that killed the deer," noticed in a former lecture, the mind here conceives
a single idea of a complete whole, which is signified by the single expression, "trees grow."

Let the following example serve in further illustration of this point. Take two bricks, the
one heated to a high temperature, the other cold. Put them together, and in a short time you
will find them of equal temperature. One has grown warm, the other cool. One has imparted heat
and received cold, the other has received heat and imparted cold. Yet all this would remain
forever unknown, but for the effects which must appear obvious to all. From these effects the
causes are to be learned.

It must, I think, appear plain to all who are willing to see, that action, as such, can never
exist distinct from the thing that acts; that all our notions of action are derived from an
observance of things in an acting condition; and hence that no words can be framed to express
our ideas of action on any other principle.

I hope you will bear these principles in mind. They are vastly important in the construction
of language, as will appear when we come to speak of the agents and objects of action. We still
adhere to the fact, that no rules of language can be successfully employed, which deviate from
the permanent laws which operate in the regulation of matter and mind; a fact which can not
be too deeply impressed on your minds.

In the consideration of actions as expressed by verbs, we must observe that power, cause, means,
agency, and effects, are indispensable to their existence. Such principles exist in fact, and
must be observed in obtaining a complete knowledge of language; for words, we have already
seen, are the expression of ideas, and ideas are the impression of things.

In our attempts at improvement, we should strip away the covering, and come at the reality.
Words should be measurably forgotten, while we search diligently for the things expressed by
them. Signs should always conduct to the things signified. The weary traveller, hungry and
faint, would hardly satisfy himself with an examination of the sign before the inn, marking
its form, the picture upon it, the nice shades of coloring in the painting. He would go in,
and search for the thing signified.

It has been the fault in teaching language, that learners have been limited to the mere forms
of words, while the important duty of teaching them to look at the thing signified, has been
entirely disregarded. Hence they have only obtained book knowledge. They know what the grammars
say; but how to apply what they say, or what is in reality meant by it, they have yet to learn.
This explains the reason why almost every man who has studied grammar will tell you that "he
used to understand it, but it has all gone from him, for he has not looked into a book these
many years." Has he lost a knowledge of language? Oh, no, he learned that before he saw a grammar,
and will preserve it to the day of his death. What good did his two or three years study of
grammar do him? None at all; he has forgotten all that he ever knew of it, and that is not
much, for he only learned what some author said, and a few arbitrary rules and technical expressions
which he could never understand nor apply in practice, except in special cases. But I wander.
I throw in this remark to show you the necessity of bringing your minds to a close observance
of things as they do in truth exist; and from them you can draw the principles of speech, and
be able to use language correctly. For we still insist on our former opinion, that all language
depends on the permanent laws of nature, as exerted in the regulation of matter and mind.

       *       *       *

To return. I have said that all action denotes power, cause, means, agency, and effects.

       *       *       *

Power depends on physical energy, or mental skill. I have hinted at this fact before. Things
act according to the power or energy they possess. Animals walk, birds fly, fishes swim, minerals
sink, poisons kill.

Every thing acts according to the ability it possesses. Man, possessed of reason, devises means
and produces ends. Beasts change locations, devour vegetables, and sometimes other beasts.
The lowest grade of animals never change location, but yet eat and live. Vegetables live and
grow, but do not change location. They have the power to reproduce their species, and some
of them to kill off surrounding objects. "The carraguata of the West Indies, clings round,"
says Goldsmith, "whatever tree it happens to approach; there it quickly gains the ascendant,
and, loading the tree with a verdure not its own, keeps away that nourishment designed to feed
the trunk, and at last entirely destroys its supporter." In our country, many gardens and fields
present convincing proof of the ability of weeds to kill out the vegetables designed to grow
therein. You all have heard of the Upas, which has a power sufficient to destroy the lives
of animals and vegetables for a large distance around. Its very exhalations are death to whatever
approaches it. It serves in metaphor to illustrate the noxious effects of all vice, of slander
and deceit, the effects of which are to the moral constitution, what the tree itself is to
natural objects, blight and mildew upon whatever comes within its reach.

Minerals are possessed of power no less astonishing, which may be observed whenever an opportunity
is offered to call it forth. Active poisons, able to slay the most powerful men and beasts,
lie hid within their bosoms. They have strong attractive and repelling powers. From the iron
is made the strong cable which holds the vessel fast in her moorings, enabling it to outride
the collected force of the winds and waves which threaten its destruction. From it also are
manufactured the manacles which bind the strong man, or fasten the lion in his cage. Gold possesses
a power which charms nearly all men to sacrifice their ease, and too many their moral principles,
to pay their blind devotions at its shrine.

Who will contend that the power of action is confined to the animal creation alone, and that
inanimate matter can not act? That there is a superior power possessed by man, endowed with
an immaterial spirit in a corporeal body, none will deny. By the agency of the mind he can
accomplish wonders, which mere physical power without the aid of such mental skill, could never
perform. But with all his boasted superiority, he is often made the slave of inanimate things.
His lofty powers of body and soul bend beneath the weight of accumulated sorrows, produced
by the secret operations of contagious disease, which slays his wife, children, and friends,
who fall like the ripened harvest before the gatherers scythe. Nay, he often submits to the
controlling power of the vine, alcohol, or tobacco, which gain a secret influence over his
nobler powers, and fix on him the stamp of disgrace, and throw around him fetters from which
he finds it no easy matter to extricate himself. By the illusions of error and vice he is often
betrayed, and long endures darkness and suffering, till he regains his native energies, and
finds deliverance in the enjoyment of truth and virtue.

What is that secret power which lies concealed beyond the reach of human ken, and is transported
from land to land unknown, till exposed in conditions suited to its operation, will show its
active and resistless force in the destruction of life, and the devastation of whole cities
or nations? You may call it plague, or cholera, or small pox, miasma, contagion, particles
of matter floating in the air surcharged with disease, or any thing else. It matters not what
you call it. It is sufficient to our present purpose to know that it has the ability to put
forth a prodigious power in the production of consequences, which the highest skill of man
is yet unable to prevent.

I might pursue this point to an indefinite length, and trace the secret powers possessed by
all created things, as exhibited in the influence they exert in various ways, both as regards
themselves and surrounding objects. But you will at once perceive my object, and the truth
of the positions I assume. A common power pervades all creation, operating by pure and perfect
laws, regulated by the Great First Cause, the Moving Principle, which guides, governs, and
controls the whole.[11]

Degrading indeed must be those sentiments which limit all action to the animal frame as an
organized body, moved by a living principle. Ours is a sublimer duty; to trace the operations
of the Divine Wisdom which acts thro out all creation, in the minutest particle of dust which
keeps its position secure, till moved by some superior power; or in the needle which points
with unerring skill to its fixed point, and guides the vessel, freighted with a hundred lives,
safe thro the midnight storm, to its destined haven; tho rocked by the waves and driven by
the winds, it remains uninfluenced, and tremblingly alive to the important duties entrusted
to its charge, continues its faithful service, and is watched with the most implicit confidence
by all on board, as the only guide to safety. The same Wisdom is displayed thro out all creation;
in the beauty, order, and harmony of the universe; in the planets which float in the azure
vault of heaven; in the glow worm that glitters in the dust; in the fish which cuts the liquid
element; in the pearl which sparkles in the bottom of the ocean; in every thing that lives,
moves, or has a being; but more distinctly in man, created in the moral image of his Maker,
possessed of a heart to feel, and a mind to understand--the third in the rank of intelligent
beings.

I cannot refuse to favor you with a quotation from that inimitable poem, Pope's Essay on Man.
It is rife with sentiment of the purest and most exalted character. It is direct to our purpose.
You may have heard it a thousand times; but I am confident you will be pleased to hear it again.

      Ask for what end the heavenly bodies shine,
    Earth for whose use?
    "No," ('tis replied,) "the first Almighty Cause
    Acts not by partial, but by general laws;
    Th' exceptions few; some change since all began:
    And what created perfect?" Why then man?
    If the great end be human happiness,
    Then nature deviates--and can man do less?
    As much that end a constant course requires
    Of show'rs and sunshine, as of man's desires;
    As much eternal springs and cloudless skies,
    As man forever temp'rate, calm, and wise.
    If plagues or earthquakes break not heaven's design.
    Why then a Borgia, or a Cataline?
    Who knows but He whose hand the lightning forms,
    Who heaves old ocean, and who wings the storms;
    Pours fierce ambition in a Cæsar's mind;
    Or turns young Ammon loose to scourge mankind?
    From pride, from pride our very reas'ning springs;
    Account for moral as for nat'ral things:
    Why charge we heaven in those, in these acquit?
    In both, to reason right, is to submit.

      Better for us, perhaps, it might appear,
    Were there all harmony, all virtue here;
    That never air or ocean felt the wind;
    That never passion discomposed the mind.
    But =all= subsists by elemental strife;
    And passions are the elements of life.
    The general =order=, since the whole began,
    Is kept in nature, and is kept in man.

       *       *       *       *       *

      Look round our world, behold the chain of love.
    Combining all below and all above;
    See plastic nature working to this end,
    The single atoms each to other tend;
    Attract, attracted to, the next in place
    Formed and impelled its neighbor to embrace,
    See matter next, with various life endued,
    Press to one center still the gen'ral good.
    See dying vegetables life sustain,
    See life dissolving, vegetate again;
    All forms that perish, other forms supply,
    (By turns we catch the vital breath, and die)
    Like bubbles on the sea of matter borne,
    They rise, they break, and to that sea return,
    Nothing is foreign--parts relate to whole;
    One all-extending, all-preserving soul
    Connects each being greatest with the least;
    Made beast in aid of man, and man of beast;
    All served, all serving; nothing stands alone;
    The chain holds on, and where it ends, unknown.

But power alone is not sufficient to produce action. There must be a =cause= to call it forth,
to set in operation and exhibit its latent energies. It will remain hid in its secret chambers
till efficient causes have set in operation the means by which its existence is to be discovered
in the production of change, effects, or results. There is, it is said, in every created thing
a power sufficient to produce its own destruction, as well as to preserve its being. In the
human body, for instance, there is a constant tendency to decay, to waste; which a counteracting
power resists, and, with proper assistance, keeps alive.

The same may be said of vegetables which are constantly throwing off, or exhaling the waste,
offensive, or useless matter, and yet a restoring power, assisted by heat, moisture, and the
nourishment of the earth, resists the tendency to decay and preserves it alive and growing.
The air, the earth, nay, the ocean itself, philosophers assure us, contain powers sufficient
to self-destruction. But I will not enlarge here. Let the necessary cause be exerted which
will give vent to this hidden power and actions the most astonishing and destructive would
be the effect. These are often witnessed in the tremendous earthquakes which devastate whole
cities, states, and empires; in the tornados which pass, like the genius of evil, over the
land, levelling whatever is found in its course; or in the waterspouts and maelstroms which
prove the grave of all that comes within their grasp.

In the attempted destruction of the royal family and parliament of England, by what is usually
called the "gunpowder plot," the arrangements were all made; two hogsheads and thirty-six barrels
of powder, sufficient to blow up the house of lords and the surrounding buildings, were secreted
in a vault beneath it, strown over with faggots. Guy Fawkes, a spanish officer, employed for
the purpose, lay at the door, on the 5th of November, 1605, with the matches, or means, in
his pocket, which should set in operation the prodigious dormant power, which would hurl to
destruction James I., the royal family, and the protestant parliament, give the ascendancy
to the Catholics, and change the whole political condition of the nation. The project was discovered,
the means were removed, the cause taken away, and the threatened effects were prevented.

The =cause= of action is the immediate subject which precedes or tends to produce the action,
without which it would not take place. It may result from volition, inherent tendency, or communicated
impulse; and is known to exist from the effects produced by it, in the altered or new condition
of the thing on which it operates; which change would not have been effected without it.

Causes are to be sought for by tracing back thro the effects which are produced by them. The
factory is put in operation, and the cloth is manufactured. The careless observer would enter
the building and see the spindles, looms, and wheels operated by the hands, and go away satisfied
that he has seen enough, seen all. But the more careful will look farther. He will trace each
band and wheel, each cog and shaft, down by the balance power, to the water race and floom;
or thro the complicated machinery of the steam engine to the piston, condenser, water, wood,
and fire; marking a new, more secret, and yet more efficient cause at each advancing step.
But all this curiously wrought machinery is not the product of chance, operated without care.
A superior cause must be sought in human skill, in the deep and active ingenuity of man. Every
contrivance presupposes a contriver. Hence there must have been a power and means sufficient
to combine and regulate the power of the water, or generate and direct the steam. That power
is vested in man; and hence, man stands as the cause, in relation to the whole process operated
by wheels, bands, spindles, and looms. Yet we may say, with propriety, that the water, or the
steam; the water-wheel, or the piston; the shafts, bands, cogs, pullies, spindles, springs,
treddles, harnesses, reeds, shuttles, an almost endless concatenation of instruments, are alike
the causes, which tend to produce the final result; for let one of these intermediate causes
be removed, and the whole power will be diverted, and all will go wrong--the effect will not
be produced.

There must be a =first cause= to set in operation all inferior ones in the production of action;
and to that first cause all action, nay, the existence of all other causes, may be traced,
directly, or more distant. The intervening causes, in the consecutive order of things, may
be as diversified as the links in the chain of variant beings. Yet all these causes are moved
by the all-sufficient and ever present agency of the Almighty Father, the =Uncaused Cause=
of all things and beings; who spoke into existence the universe with all its various and complicated
parts and orders; who set the sun, moon, and stars in the firmament, gave the earth a place,
and fixed the sea a bed; throwing around them barriers over which they can never pass. From
the height of his eternal throne, his eye pervades all his works; from the tall archangel,
that "adores and burns," down to the very hairs of our heads, which are all numbered, his wise,
benevolent, and powerful supervision may be traced in legible lines, which may be seen and
read of all men. And from effects, the most diminutive in character, may be traced back, from
cause to cause, upward in the ascending scale of being, to the same unrivalled Source of all
power, splendor, and perfection, the presence of Him, who spake, and it was done; who commanded,
and it stood still; or, as the poet has it:

    "Look thro nature up to nature's God."

The means of action are those aids which are displayed as the medium thro which existing causes
are to exhibit their hidden powers in producing changes or effects. The matches in the pocket
of Guy Fawkes were the direct means by which he intended to set in operation a train of causes
which should terminate in the destruction of the house of lords and all its inmates. Those
matches, set on fire, would convey a spark to the faggots, and thence to the powder, and means
after means, and cause after cause, in the rapid succession of events, would ensue, tending
to a final, inevitable, and melancholy result.

A ball shot from a cannon, receives its first impulse from the powder; but it is borne thro
the air by the aid of a principle inherent in itself, which power is finally overcome by the
density of the atmosphere which impedes its progress, and the law of gravitation finally attracts
it to the earth. These contending principles may be known by observing the curved line in which
the ball moves from the cannon's mouth to the spot where it rests. But if there is no power
in the ball, why does not the ball of cork discharged from the same gun with the same momentum,
travel to the same distance, at the same rate? The action commences in both cases with the
same projectile force, the same exterior means are employed, but the results are widely different.
The cause of this difference must be sought for in the comparative power of each substance
to continue its own movements.

Every boy who has played at ball has observed these principles. He throws his ball, which,
if not counteracted, will continue in a straight line, ad infinitum--without end. But the air
impedes its progress, and gravitation brings it to the ground. When he throws it against a
hard substance, its velocity is not only overcome, but it is sent back with great force. But
if he takes a ball of wax, of snow, or any strong adhesive substance, it will not bound. How
shall we account to him for this difference? He did the same with both balls. The impetus given
the one was as great as the other, and the resistance of the intervening substance was as great
in one case as the other; and yet, one bounds and rebounds, while the other sticks fast as
a friend, to the first object it meets. The cause of this difference is to be sought for in
the different capabilities of the respective balls. One possesses a strong elastic and repelling
power; in the other, the attraction of cohesion is predominant.

Take another example. Let two substances of equal size and form, the one made of lead, the
other of cork, be put upon the surface of a cistern of water. The external circumstances are
the same, but the effects are widely different--one sinks, the other floats. We must look for
the cause of this difference, not in the opposite qualities of surrounding matter, but in the
things themselves. If you add to the cork another quality possessed by the lead, and give it
the same form, size, and weight, it will as readily sink to the bottom. But this last property
is possessed in different degrees by the two bodies, and hence, while the one floats upon the
water, the other displaces its particles and sinks to the bottom. You may take another substance;
say the mountain ebony, which is heavier than water, but lighter than lead, and immerse it
in the water; it will not sink with the rapidity of lead, because its inherent power is not
so strong.

Take still another case. Let two balls, suspended on strings, be equally, or, to use the technical
term, positively electrified. Bring them within a certain distance, and they will repel each
other. Let the electric fluid be extracted from one, and the other will attract it. Before,
they were as enemies; now they embrace as friends. The magnet furnishes the most striking proof
in favor of the theory we are laboring to establish. Let one of sufficient power be let down
within the proper distance, it will overcome the power of gravitation, and attract the heavy
steel to itself. What is the cause of this wonderful fact? Who can account for it? Who can
trace out the hidden cause; the "primum mobile" of the Ptolmaic philosophy--the secret spring
of motion? But who will dare deny that such effects do exist, and that they are produced by
an efficient cause? Or who will descend into the still more dark and perplexing mazes of neuter
verb grammars, and deny that matter has such a power to act?

These instances will suffice to show you what we mean when we say, every thing acts according
to the ability God has given it to act. I might go into a more minute examination of the properties
of matter, affinity, hardness, weight, size, color, form, mobility, &c., which even old grammars
will allow it to possess; but I shall leave that work for you to perform at your leisure.

Whoever has any doubts remaining in reference to the abilities of all things to produce, continue,
or prevent motion, will do well to consult the prince of philosophers, Sir Isaac Newton, who,
after Gallileo, has treated largely upon the laws of motion. He asserts as a fact, full in
illustration of the principles I am laboring to establish, that in ascending a hill, the trace
rope pulls the horse back as much as he draws that forward, only the horse overcomes the resistance
of the load, and moves it up the hill. On the old systems, no power would be requisite to move
the load, for it could oppose no resistance to the horse; and the small child could move it
with as much ease as the strong team.

Who has not an acquaintance sufficiently extensive to know these things? I can not believe
there is a person present, who does not fully comprehend my meaning, and discover the correctness
of the ground I have assumed. And it should be borne in mind, that no collection or arrangement
of words can be composed into a sentence, which do not obtain their meaning from a connection
of things as they exist and operate in the material and intellectual world, and that it is
not in the power of man to frame a sentence, to think or speak, but in conformity with these
general and exceptionless laws.

This important consideration meets us at every advancing step, as if to admonish us to abandon
the vain project of seeking a knowledge of language without an acquaintance with the great
principles on which it depends. To look for the leading rules of speech in set forms of expression,
or in the capricious customs of any nation, however learned, is as futile as to attempt to
gain a knowledge of the world by shutting ourselves up in a room, and looking at paintings
and drawings which may be furnished by those who know as little of it as we do. How fallacious
would be the attempt, how much worse than time thrown away, for the parent to shut up his child
in a lonely room, and undertake to impress upon its mind a knowledge of man, beasts, birds,
fish, insects, rivers, mountains, fields, flowers, houses, cities, &c., with no other aid than
a few miserable pictures, unlike the reality, and in many respects contradictory to each other.
And yet that would be adopting a course very similar to the one long employed as the only means
of acquiring a knowledge of language; limited to a set of arbitrary, false, and contradictory
rules, which the brightest geniuses could never understand, nor the most erudite employ in
the expression of ideas. The grammars, it was thought, must be studied to acquire the use of
language, and yet they were forgotten before such knowledge was put in practice.

       *       *       *       *       *

A simple remark on the principles of relative action, and we will pass to the consideration
of agents and objects, or the more immediate causes and effects of action.

We go forth at the evening hour and look upon the sun sinking beneath the horizon; we mark
the varying hues of light as they appear, and change, and fade away. We see the shades of night
approaching, with a gradual pace, till the beautiful landscape on which we had been gazing,
the hills and the meadows; the farm house and the cultivated fields, the grove, the orchard,
and the garden; the tranquil lake and the babbling brook; the dairy returning home, and the
lambkins gambolling beside their dams; all recede from our view, and appear to us no longer.
All this is relative action. But so far as language and ideas are concerned, it matters not
whether the sun actually sinks behind the hills, or the hills interpose between it and us;
whether the landscape recedes from our view, or the shades of night intercept so as to obscure
our vision. The habit of thought is the same, and the form of expression must agree with it.
We say the sun rises and sets, in reference to the obvious fact, without stopping to inquire
whether it really moves or not. Nor is such an inquiry at all necessary, as to matter of fact,
for all we mean by such expressions, is, that by some process, immaterial to the case in hand,
the sun stands in a new relation to the earth, its altitude is elevated or depressed, and hence
the action is strictly relative. For we should remember that rising and setting, up and down,
above and below, in reference to the earth, are only relative terms.

We speak and read of the changes of the moon, and we correctly understand each other. But in
truth the moon changes no more at one time than at another. The action is purely relative.
One day we observe it before the sun, and the next behind it, as we understand these terms.
The precise time of the change, when it will appear to us in a different relation to the sun,
is computed by astronomers, and set down in our almanacs; but it changes no more at that time
than at any other, for like every thing else, it is always changing.

In a case we mentioned in a former lecture, "John looks like or resembles his brother," we
have an example of relative action. So in the case of two men travelling the same way, starting
together, but advancing at different rates; one, we say, falls behind the other. In this manner
of expression, we follow exactly the principles on which we started, and suit our language
to our ideas and habits of thinking. By the law of optics things are reflected upon the retina
of the eye inversely, that is, upside down; but they are always seen in a proper relation to
each other, and if there is any thing wrong in the case, it is overcome by early habit; and
so our language accords with things as they are manifested to our understandings.

These examples will serve to illustrate what we mean by relative action, when applied to natural
philosophy or the construction of language.

I had intended in this lecture to have treated of the agents and objects of verbs, to prove,
in accordance with the first and closest principles of philosophy, that every "cause must have
an effect," or, in other words, that every action must terminate on some object, either expressed
or necessarily understood; but I am admonished that I have occupied more than my usual quota
of time in this lecture already, and hence I shall leave this work for our next.

I will conclude by the relation of an anecdote or two from the life of that wonderful man,
Gallileo Gallilei, who was many years professor of mathematics at Padua. Possessed of a strong,
reflecting mind, he had early given his attention to the observation of things, their motions,
tendencies, and power of resistance, from which he ascended, step by step, to the sublime science
of astronomy. Being of an honest and frank, as well as benevolent disposition, he shunned not
to state and defend theories at war with the then received opinions. All learning was, at that
time, in the hands or under the supervision of the ecclesiastics, who were content to follow
blindly the aristotelian philosophy, which, in many respects, was not unlike that still embraced
in our neuter verb systems of grammar. There was a sworn hostility against all improvement,
or innovation as it was called, in science as well as in theology. The copernican system, to
which Gallileo was inclined, if it had not been formally condemned, had been virtually denounced
as false, and its advocates heretical. Hence Gallileo never dared openly to defend it, but,
piece by piece, under different names, he brought it forth, which, carried out, would establish
the heretical system. Dwelling as a light in the midst of surrounding darkness, he cautiously
discovered the precious truths revealed to his mind, lest the flood of light should distract
and destroy the mental vision, break up the elements of society, let loose the resistless powers
of ignorance, prejudice and bigotry, and envelope himself and friends in a common ruin. At
length having prepared in a very guarded manner his famous "Dialogues on the Ptolmaic and Copernican
Systems," he obtained permission, and ventured to publish it to the world, altho an edict had
been promulgated enjoining silence on the subject, and he had been personally instructed "not
to believe or teach the motion of the earth in any manner."

By the false representation of his enemies, suspicions were aroused and busily circulated prejudicial
to Gallileo. Pope Urban himself, his former friend, became exasperated towards him, and a sentence
against him and his books was fulminated by the Cardinals, prohibiting the "sale and vending
of the latter, and condemning him to the formal prison of the Holy Office for a period determined
at their pleasure." The sentence of the Inquisition was in part couched in these words--"We
pronounce, judge, and declare, that you, the said Gallileo, by reason of these things, which
have been detailed in the course of this investigation, and which, as above, you have confessed,
have rendered yourself vehemently suspected by this Holy Office, of heresy; that is to say,
that you believe and hold the false doctrine, and contrary to the Holy and Divine Scriptures,
namely, that the sun is the center of the world, and that it does not move from east to west,
and that the earth does move, and is not the center of the world; also, that an opinion can
be held and supported as probable, after it has been declared, and finally decreed contrary
to the Holy Scriptures"--by the Holy See!! "From which," they continue, "it is our pleasure
that you be absolved, provided that, first, with a sincere heart, and unfeigned faith, in our
presence, you abjure, curse, and detest the said errors and heresies, and every other error
and heresy contrary to the Catholic and Apostolic Church of Rome, in the form now shown to you."

After suffering under this anathema some time, Gallileo, by the advice of his friends, consented
to make a public abjuration of his former heresies on the laws of motion. As he arose from
his knees, it is said, he whispered to a friend standing near him, "E pur si muove"--=it does
move, tho=.

In our times we are not fated to live under the terrors of the Inquisition; but prejudice,
if not as strong in power to execute, has the ability to blind as truly as in other ages, and
keep us from the knowledge and adoption of practical improvements. And it is the same philosophy
now, which asks if inanimate matter can act, which demanded of Gallileo if this ponderous globe
could fly a thousand miles in a minute, and no body feel the motion; and with Deacon Homespun,
in the dialogue, "why, if this world turned upside down, the water did not spill from the mill
ponds, and all the people fall headlong to the bottomless pit?"

If there are any such peripatetics in these days of light and science, who still cling to the
false and degrading systems of neutrality, because they are honorable for age, or sustained
by learned and good men, and who will oppose all improvement, reject without examination, or,
what is still worse, refuse to adopt, after being convinced of the truth of it, any system,
because it is novel, an innovation upon established forms, I can only say of them, in the language
of Micanzio, the Venetian friend of Gallileo--"The efforts of such enemies to get these principles
prohibited, will occasion no loss either to your reputation, or to the intelligent part of
the world. As to posterity, this is just one of the surest ways to hand them down to them.
But what a wretched set this must be, to whom every good thing, and all that is found in nature,
necessarily appears hostile and odious."

We have made some general remarks on the power, cause, and means, necessary in the production
of action. We now approach nearer to the application of these principles as observed in the
immediate agency and effects which precede and follow action, and as connected with the verb.

It is an axiom in philosophy which cannot be controverted, that every effect is the product
of a prior cause, and that every cause will necessarily produce a corresponding effect. This
fact has always existed and will forever remain unchanged. It applies universally in physical,
mental, and moral science; to God or man; to angels or to atoms; in time or thro eternity.
No language can be constructed which does not accord with it, for no ideas can be gained but
by an observance of its manifestations in the material or spiritual universe. The manner of
expressing this cause and effect may differ in different nations or by people of the same nation,
but the fact remains unaltered, and so far as understood the idea is the same. In the case
of the horse mentioned in a former lecture,[12] the idea was the same, but the manner of expressing
it different. Let that horse walk, lay down, roll over, rise up, shake himself, rear, or stand
still, all present will observe the same attitude of the horse, and will form the same ideas
of his positions. Some will doubtless inquire more minutely into the cause and means by which
these various actions are produced, what muscles are employed, what supports are rendered by
the bones; and the whole regulated by the will of the horse, and their conclusions may be quite
opposite. But this has nothing to do with the obvious fact expressed by the words above; or,
more properly, it is not necessary to enter into a minute detail of these minor considerations,
these secret springs of motion, in order to relate the actions of the horse. For were we to
do this we should be required to go back, step by step, and find the causes still more numerous,
latent, and perplexing. The pursuit of causes would lead us beyond the mere organization of
the horse, his muscular energy, and voluntary action; for gravitation has no small service
to perform in the accomplishment of these results; as well as other principles. Let gravitation
be removed, and how could the horse lay down? He could roll over as well in the air as upon
the ground. But the particular notice of these things is unnecessary in the construction of
language to express the actions of the horse; for he stands as the obvious agent of the whole,
and the effects are seen to follow--the horse is laid down, his body is rolled over, the fore
part of it is reared up, himself is shaken, and the whole feat is produced by the direction
of his master.

Allow me to recal an idea we considered in a former lecture. I said no action as such could
be known distinct from the thing which acts; that action as such is not perceptible, and that
all things act, according to the ability they possess. To illustrate this idea: Take a magnet
and lower it down over a piece of iron, till it attracts it to itself and holds it suspended
there. If you are not in possession of a magnet you can make one at your pleasure, by the following
process. Lay your knife blade on a flat iron, or any hard, smooth surface; let another take
the old tongs or other iron which have stood erect for a considerable length of time, and draw
it upon the blade for a minute or more. A magnetic power will be conveyed from the tongs to
the blade sufficient to take up a common needle. The tongs themselves may be manufactured into
a most perfect magnet. Now as the knife holds the needle suspended beneath it you perceive
there must be an action, a power, and cause exerted beyond our comprehension. Let the magnetic
power be extracted from the blade, and the needle will drop to the floor. A common unmagnetized
blade will not raise and hold a needle as this does. How those tongs come in possession of
such astonishing power; by what process it is there retained; the power and means of transmission
of a part of it to the knife blade, and the reason of the phenomena you now behold--an inanimate
blade drawing to itself and there holding this needle suspended--will probably long remain
unknown to mortals. But that such are the facts, incontestibly true, none will deny, for the
evidence is before us. Now fix your attention on that needle. There is an active and acting
principle in that as well as in the magnetized blade; for the blade will not attract a splinter
of wood, of whalebone, or piece of glass, tho equal in size and weight. It will have no operation
on them. Then it is by a sort of mutual affinity, a reciprocity of attachment, between the
blade and needle, that this phenomena is produced.

To apply this illustration you have only to reverse the case--turn the knife and needle over--and
see all things attracted to the earth by the law of gravitation, a principle abiding in all
matter. All that renders the exhibition of the magnet curious or wonderful is that it is an
uncommon condition of things, an apparent counteraction of the regular laws of nature. But
we should know that the same sublime principle is constantly operating thro out universal nature.
Let that be suspended, cease its active operations for a moment, and our own earth will be
decomposed into particles; the sun, moon and stars will dissolve and mingle with the common
dust; all creation will crumble into atoms, and one vast ocean of darkness and chaos will fill
the immensity of space.

Are you then prepared to deny the principles for which we are contending? I think you will
not; but accede the ground, that such being the fact, true in nature, language, correctly explained,
is only the medium by which the ideas of these great truths, may be conveyed from one mind
to another, and must correspond therewith. If language is the sign of ideas, and ideas are
the impressions of things, it follows of necessity, that no language can be employed unless
it corresponds with these natural laws, or first principles. The untutored child cannot talk
of these things, nor comprehend our meaning till clearly explained to it. But some people act
as tho they thought children must first acquire a knowledge of words, and then begin to learn
what such words mean. This is putting the "cart before the horse."

Much, in this world, is to be taken for granted. We can not enter into the minutiæ of all we
would express, or have understood. We go upon the ground that other people know something as
well as we, and that they will exercise that knowledge while listening to our relation of some
new and important facts. Hence it is said that "brevity is the soul of wit." But suppose you
should talk of surds, simple and quadratic equations, diophantine problems, and logarithms,
to a person who knows nothing of proportion or relation, addition or subtraction. What would
they know about your words? You might as well give them a description in Arabic or Esquimaux.
They must first learn the simple rules on which the whole science of mathematics depends, before
they can comprehend a dissertation on the more abstruse principles or distant results. So children
must learn to observe things as they are, in their simplest manifestations, in order to understand
the more secret and sublime operations of nature. And our language should always be adapted
to their capacities; that is, it should agree with their advancement. You may talk to a zealot
in politics of religion, the qualities of forbearance, candor, and veracity; to the enthusiast
of science and philosophy; to the bigot of liberality and improvement; to the miser of benevolence
and suffering; to the profligate of industry and frugality; to the misanthrope of philanthropy
and patriotism; to the degraded sinner of virtue, truth, and heaven; but what do they know
of your meaning? How are they the wiser for your instruction? You have touched a cord which
does not vibrate thro their hearts, or, phrenologically, addressed an organ they do not possess,
except in a very moderate degree, at least. Food must be seasoned to the palates of those who
use it. Milk is for babes and strong meat for men. Our instruction must be suited to the capacities
of those we would benefit, always elevated just far enough above them to attract them along
the upward course of improvement.

But it should be remembered that evils will only result from a deviation from truth, and that
we can never be justified in doing wrong because others have, or for the sake of meeting them
half way. And yet this very course is adopted in teaching, and children are learned to adopt
certain technical rules in grammar, not because they are true, but because they are convenient!
In fact, it is said by some, that language is an arbitrary affair altogether, and is only to
be taught and learned mechanically! But who would teach children that seven times seven are
fifty, and nine times nine a hundred, and assign as a reason for so doing, that fifty and a
hundred are more easily remembered than forty-nine and eighty-one? Yet there would be as much
propriety in adopting such a principle in mathematics, as in teaching for a rule of grammar
that when an objective case comes after a verb, it is active; but when there is none expressed,
it is intransitive or neuter.

The great fault is, grammarians do not allow themselves to think on the subject of language,
or if they do, they only think intransitively, that is, produce no thoughts by their cogitations.

This brings us to a more direct consideration of the subject before us. All admit the correctness
of the axiom that every effect must have a cause, and that every cause will have an effect.
It is equally true that "like causes will produce like effects," a rule from which nature itself,
and thought, and language, can never deviate. It is as plain as that two things mutually equal
to each other, are equal to a third. On this immutable principle we base our theory of the
activity of all verbs, and contend that they must have an object after them, either expressed
or necessarily understood. We can not yield this position till it is proved that causes can
operate without producing effects, which can never be till the order of creation is reversed!
There never was, to our knowledge, such a thing as an intransitive action, with the solitary
exception of the burning bush.[13] In that case the laws of nature were suspended, and no effects
were produced; for the bush burned, but there was nothing burnt; no consequences followed to
the bush; it was not consumed. The records of the past present no instance of like character,
where effects have failed to follow, direct or more distantly, every cause which has been set
in operation.

It makes no difference whether the object of the action is expressed or not. It is the same
in either case. But where it is not necessarily implied from the nature and fitness of things,
it must be expressed, and but for such object or effect the action could not be understood.
For example, I run; but if there is no effect produced, nothing run, how can it be known whether
I run or not. If I write, it is necessarily understood that I write something--a letter, a
book, a piece of poetry, a communication, or some other writing. When such object is not liable
to be mistaken, it would be superfluous to express it--it would be a redundancy which should
be avoided by all good writers and speakers. All languages are, in this respect, more or less
eliptical, which constitutes no small share of their beauty, power, and elegance.

This elipsis may be observed not only in regard to the objects of verbs, but in the omission
of many nouns after adjectives, which thus assume the character of nouns; as, the Almighty,
the Eternal, the Allwise, applied to God, understood. So we say the wise, the learned, the
good, the faithful, the wicked, the vile, the base, to which, if nouns, it would sound rather
harsh to apply plurals. So we say, take your hat off ( ); put your gloves on ( ); lay your
coat off ( ); and pull your boots on ( ); presuming the person so addressed knows enough to
fill the elipsis, and not take his hat off his back, pull his gloves on his feet, or his boots
on his head.

In pursuing this subject farther, let us examine the sample words which are called intransitive
verbs, because frequently used without the object expressed after them; such as run, walk,
step, fly, rain, snow, burn, roll, shine, smiles, &c.

"I run."

That here is an action of the first kind, none will deny. But it is contended by the old systems
that there is no object on which the action terminates. If that be true then there is nothing
run, no effect produced, and the first law of nature is outraged, in the very onset; for there
is a cause, but no effect; an action, but no object. How is the fact? Have you run nothing?
conveyed nothing, moved nothing from one place to another? no change, no effect, nothing moved?
Look at it and decide. It is said that a neuter or intransitive verb may be known from the
fact that it takes after it a preposition. Try it by this rule. "A man run against a post in
a dark night, and broke his neck;" that is, he run nothing against a post--no object to run--and
yet he broke his neck. Unfortunate man!

The fact in relation to this verb is briefly this: It is used to express the action which more
usually terminates on the actor, than on any other object. This circumstance being generally
known, it would be superfluous to mention the object, except in cases where such is not the
fact. But whenever we desire to be definite, or when there is the least liability to mistake
the object, it is invariably expressed. Instances of this kind are numerous. "They ran the
boat ashore." "The captain ran his men to rescue them from the enemy." "They ran the gauntlet."
"They run a stage to Boston." "He ran himself into discredit." "One bank runs another." "The
man had a hard run of it." "Run the account over, and see if it is right." "They run forty
looms and two thousand spindles." "He runs his mill evenings." Such expressions are common
and correct, because they convey ideas, and are understood.

Two men were engaged in argument. The believer in intransitive verbs set out to run his opponent
into an evident absurdity, and, contrary to his expectation, he ran himself into one. Leave
out the objects of this verb, run, and the sense is totally changed. He set out to run into
an evident absurdity, and he ran into one; that is, he did the very absurd thing which he intended
to do.[14]

"I walk."

The action expressed by this verb is very similar in character to the former, but rather slower
in performance. Writers on health tell us that to walk is a very healthy exercise, and that
it would be well for men of sedentary habits to walk several miles every day. But if there
is no action in walk, or if it has no object necessarily walked, it would be difficult to understand
what good could result from it.

"Did you have a pleasant walk this morning?" says a teacher to his grammar class.

"We did have a very pleasant one. The flowers were blooming on each side of the walk, and sent
forth their sweetest aroma, perfuming the soft breezes of the morning. Birds were flitting
from spray to spray, carolling their hymns of praise to Deity. The tranquil waters of the lake
lay slumbering in silence, and reflected the bright rays of the sun, giving a sweet but solemn
aspect to the whole scene. To go thro the grove, down by the lake, and up thro the meadow,
is the most delightful walk a person can take."

"How did you get your walk?"

"We walked it, to be sure; how did you think we got it?"

"Oh, I did not know. Walk, your books tell you, is an intransitive verb, terminating on no
object; so I supposed, if you followed them, you obtained it some other way; by riding, running,
sailing, or, may be, bought it, as you could not have walked it! Were you tired on your return?"

"We were exceedingly fatigued, for you know it is a very long walk, and we walked it in an hour."

"But what tired you? If there are no effects produced by walking, I can not conceive why you
should be fatigued by such exercise."

Who does not perceive what flagrant violations of grammar rules are committed every day, and
every hour, and in almost every sentence that is framed to express our knowledge of facts.

To step.

This verb is the same in character with the two just noticed. It expresses the act of raising
each foot alternately, and usually implies that the body is, by that means, conveyed from one
place to another. But as people step their feet and not their hands, or any thing else, it
is entirely useless to mention the object; for generally, that can not be mistaken any more
than in the case of the gloves, boots, and hat. But it would be bad philosophy to teach children
that there is no objective word after it, because it is not written out and placed before their
eyes. They will find such teaching contradicted at every step they take. Let a believer in
intransitive verbs step on a red hot iron; he will soon find to his sorrow, that he was mistaken
when he thought that he could step without stepping any thing. It would be well for grammar,
as well as many other things, to have more practice and less theory. The thief was detected
by his steps. Step softly; put your feet down carefully.

Birds fly.

We learned from our primers, that

    "The eagle's flight
    Is out of sight,"

How did the eagle succeed in producing a flight? I suppose he flew it. And if birds ever fly,
they must produce a flight. Such being the fact, it is needless to supply the object. But the
action does not terminate solely on the flight produced, for that is only the name given to
the action itself. The expression conveys to the mind the obvious fact, that, by strong muscular
energy, by the aid of feathers, and the atmosphere, the bird carries itself thro the air, and
changes its being from one place to another. As birds rarely fly a race, or any thing but themselves
and a flight, it is not necessary to suffix the object.

It rains.

This verb is insisted on as the strongest proof of intransitive action; with what propriety,
we will now inquire. It will serve as a clear elucidation of the whole theory of intransitive
verbs.

What does the expression signify? It simply declares the fact, that water is shed down from
the clouds. But is there no object after rains? There is none expressed. Is there nothing rained?
no effect produced? If not, there can be no water fallen, and our cisterns would be as empty,
our streams as low, and fields as parched, after a rain as before it! But who that has common
sense, and has never been blinded by the false rules of grammar, does not know that when it
rains, it never fails to rain rain, water, or rain-water, unless you have one of the paddy's
dry rains? When it hails, it hails hail, hail-stones, or frozen rain. When it snows, it snows
snow, sometimes two feet of it, sometimes less. I should think teachers in our northern countries
would find it exceeding difficult to convince their readers that snow is an intransitive verb--that
it snows nothing. And yet so it is; people will remain wedded to their old systems, and refuse
to open their eyes and behold the evidences every where around them. Teachers themselves, the
guides of the young--and I blush to say it, for I was long among the number--have, with their
scholars, labored all the morning, breaking roads, shovelling snow, and clearing paths, to
get to the school-house, and then set down and taught them that to snow is an intransitive
verb. What nonsense; nay, worse, what falsehoods have been instilled into the youthful mind
in the name of grammar! Can we be surprised that people have not understood grammar? that it
is a dry, cold, and lifeless business?

I once lectured in Poughkeepsie, N. Y. In a conversation with Miss B., a distinguished scholar,
who had taught a popular female school for twenty years; was remarking upon the subject of
intransitive verbs, and the apparent inconsistency of the new system, that all verbs must have
an object after them, expressed or understood; she said, "there was the verb rain, (it happened
to be a rainy day,) the whole action is confined to the agent; it does not pass on to another
object; it is purely intransitive." Her aged mother, who had never looked into a grammar book,
heard the conversation, and very bluntly remarked, "Why, you fool you, I want to know if you
have studied grammar these thirty years, and taught it more than twenty, and have never larned
that when it rains it always rains rain? If it didn't, do you s'pose you'd need an umbrella
to go out now into the storm? I should think you'd know better. I always told you these plaguy
grammars were good for nothing, I didn't b'lieve." "Amen," said I, to the good sense of the
old lady, "you are right, and have reason to be thankful that you have never been initiated
into the intricate windings, nor been perplexed with the false and contradictory rules, which
have blasted many bright geniuses in their earliest attempts to gain a true knowledge of the
sublime principles of language, on which depends so much of the happiness of human life." The
good matron's remark was a poser to the daughter, but it served as a means of her entire deliverance
from the thraldom of neuter verbs, and the adoption of the new principles of the exposition
of language.

The anecdote shows us how the unsophisticated mind will observe facts, and employ words as
correctly, if not more so, than those schooled in the high pretensions of science, falsely
taught. Who does not know from the commonest experience, that the direct object of raining
must follow as the necessary sequence? that it can never fail? And yet our philologists tell
us that such is not always the case; and that the exception is to be marked on the singular
ground, whether the word is written out or omitted! What a narrow view of the sublime laws
of motion! What a limited knowledge of things! or else, what a mistake!

"Then the Lord said unto Moses, behold, I will rain bread for you from heaven."

The fire burns.

The fire burns the wood, the coal, or the peat. The great fire in New-York burned the buildings
which covered fifty-two acres of ground. Mr. Experiment burns coal in preference to wood. His
new grate burns it very finely. Red ash coal burns the best; it makes the fewest ashes, and
hence is the most convenient. The cook burns too much fuel. The house took fire and burned
up. Burned what up? Burn is an intransitive verb. It would not trouble the unfortunate tenant
to know that there must be an object burned, or what it was. He would find it far more difficult
to rebuild his house. Do you suppose fires never burn any thing belonging to neuter verb folks?
Then they never need pay away insurance money. With the solitary exception I have mentioned--the
burning bush--this verb can not be intransitive.

The sun shines.

This is an intransitive verb if there ever was one, because the object is not often expressed
after it. But if the sun emits no rays of light, how shall it be known whether it shines or
not? "The radiance of the sun's bright beaming" is produced by the exhibition of itself, when
it brightens the objects exposed to its rays or radiance. We talk of sun shine and moon shine,
but if these bodies never produce effects how shall it be known whether such things are real?
Sun shine is the direct effect of the sun's shining. But clouds sometimes intervene and prevent
the rays from extending to the earth; but then we do not say "the sun shines." You see at once,
that all we know or can know of the fact we state as truth, is derived from a knowledge of
the very effects which our grammars tell us do not exist. Strange logic indeed! It is a mark
of a wiser man, and a better scholar, not to know the popular grammars, than it is to profess
any degree of proficiency in them!

To smile.

The smiles of the morning, the smiles of affection, a smile of kindness, are only produced
by the appearance of something that smiles upon us. Smiles are the direct consequence of smiling.
If a person should smile ever so sweetly and yet present no smiles, they might, for aught we
could know to the contrary, be sour as vinegar.

But this verb frequently has another object after it; as, "to smile the wrinkles from the brow
of age," or "smile dull cares away." "A sensible wife would soon reason and smile him into
good nature."

But I need not multiply examples. When such men as Johnson, Walker, Webster, Murray, Lowthe,
and a host of other wise and renowned men, gravely tell us that eat and drink, which they define,
"to take food; to feed; to take a meal; to go to meals; to be maintained in food; to swallow
liquors; to quench thirst; to take any liquid;" are intransitive or neuter verbs, having no
objects after them, we must think them insincere, egregiously mistaken, or else possessed of
a means of subsistence different from people generally! Did they eat and drink, "take food
and swallow liquors," intransitively; that is, without eating or drinking any thing? Is it
possible in the nature of things? Who does not see the absurdity? And yet they were great men,
and nobody has a right to question such high authority. And the "simplifiers" who have come
after, making books and teaching grammar to earn their bread, have followed close in their
footsteps, and, I suppose, eaten nothing, and thrown their bread away! Was I a believer in
neuter verbs and desired to get money, my first step would be to set up a boarding house for
all believers in, and practisers of, intransitive verbs. I would board cheap and give good
fare. I could afford it, for no provisions would be consumed.

Some over cautious minds, who are always second, if not last, in a good cause, ask us why these
principles, if so true and clear, were not found out before? Why have not the learned who have
studied for many centuries, never seen and adopted them? It is a sufficient answer to such
a question, to ask why the copernican system of astronomy was not sooner adopted, why the principles
of chemistry, the circulation of the blood, the power and application of steam, nay, why all
improvement was not known before. When grammar and dictionary makers, those wise expounders
of the principles of speech, have so far forgotten facts as to teach that eat and drink, "express
neither action nor passion," or are "confined to the agents;" that when a man eats, he eats
nothing, or when he drinks, he drinks nothing, we need not stop long to decide why these things
were unknown before. The wisest may sometimes mistake; and the proud aspirant for success,
frequently passes over, unobserved, the humble means on which all true success depends.

Allow me to quote some miscellaneous examples which will serve to show more clearly the importance
of supplying the elipses, in order to comprehend the meaning of the writers, or profit by their
remarks. You will supply the objects correctly from the attendant circumstances where they
are not expressed.

"Ask ( ) and ye shall receive ( ); seek ( ) and ye shall find ( ); knock ( ) and it shall be
opened unto you."

Ask what? Seek what? Knock what? That it may be opened? Our "Grammars Made Easy" would teach
us to ask and seek nothing! no objectives after them. What then could we reasonably expect
to receive or find? The thing we asked for, of course, and that was nothing! Well might the
language apply to such, "Ye ask ( ) and receive not (naught) because ye ask ( ) amiss." False
teaching is as pernicious to religion and morals as to science.

The hearer is to observe that there is no object after these words--nothing distributed, or
communicated! There is too much such charity in the world.

"He spoke ( ), and it was done; he commanded ( ), and it stood fast."

"Bless ( ), and curse ( ) not."--Bible.

"Strike ( ) while the iron is hot."--Proverb.

"I came ( ), I saw ( ), I conquered ( )."--Cæsar's Letter.

He lives ( ) contented and happy.

"Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his."--Numbers.

As bodily exercise particularly strengthens ( ), as it invites ( ) to sleep ( ), and secures
( ) against great disorders, it is to be generally encouraged. Gymnastic exercises may be established
for all ages and for all classes. The Jews were ordered to take a walk out of the city on the
Sabbath day; and here rich and poor, young and old, master and slave, met ( ) and indulged
( ) in innocent mirth or in the pleasures of friendly intercourse.--Spurzheim on Education.

"Men will wrangle ( ) for religion; write ( ) for it; fight ( ) for it; die ( ) for it; any
thing but live ( ) for it."--Lacon.

"I have addressed this volume to those that think ( ), and some may accuse me of an ostentatious
independence, in presuming ( ) to inscribe a book to so small a minority. But a volume addressed
to those that think ( ) is in fact addressed to all the world; for altho the proportion of
those who do ( ) think ( ) be extremely small, yet every individual flatters himself that he
is one of the number."--Idem.

What is the difference whether a man thinks or not, if he produces no thoughts?

"He that thinks himself the happiest man, really is so; but he that thinks himself the wisest,
is generally the greatest fool."--Idem.

"A man has many workmen employed; some to plough ( ) and sow ( ), others to chop ( ) and split
( ); some to mow ( ) and reap ( ); one to score ( ) and hew ( ); two to frame ( ) and raise
( ). In his factory he has persons to card ( ), spin ( ), reel ( ), spool ( ), warp ( ), and
weave ( ), and a clerk to deliver ( ) and charge ( ), to receive ( ) and pay ( ). They eat
( ), and drink ( ), heartily, three times a day; and as they work ( ) hard, and feel ( ) tired
at night, they lay ( ) down, sleep ( ) soundly, and dream ( ) pleasantly; they rise ( ) up
early to go ( ) to work ( ) again. In the morning the children wash ( ) and dress ( ) and prepare
( ) to go ( ) to school, to learn ( ) to read ( ), write ( ), and cipher ( )." All neuter or
intransitive verbs!!

"The celebrated horse, Corydon, will perform ( ) on Tuesday evening in the circus. He will
leap ( ) over four bars, separately, in imitation of the english hunter. He will lie ( ) down,
and rise ( ) up instantly at the word of command. He will move ( ) backwards and sideways,
rear ( ) and stand ( ) on his hind feet; he will sit ( ) down, like a Turk, on a cushion. To
conclude ( ), he will leap ( ), in a surprising manner, over two horses."--Cardell's Grammar.

The gymnastic is not a mountebank; he palms off no legerdemain upon the public. He will stretch
a line across the room, several feet from the floor, over which he will leap ( ) with surprising
dexterity. He will stand ( ) on his head, balance, ( ) on one foot, and swing ( ) from side
to side of the room; lay ( ) crosswise, and sideways; spring ( ) upon his feet; bound ( ) upon
the floor; dance ( ) and keel ( ) over with out touching his hands. He will sing ( ), play
( ), and mimic ( ); look ( ) like a king, and act ( ) like a fool. He will laugh ( ) and cry
( ), as if real; roar ( ) like a lion, and chirp ( ) like a bird. To conclude ( ): He will
do all this to an audience of neuter grammarians, without either "action or passion," all the
while having a "state of being," motionless, in the center of the room!!

What a lie! say you. A lie? I hope you do not accuse me of lying. If there is any thing false
in this matter it all lies in the quotation, at the conclusion, from the standard grammar.
If that is false, whose fault is it? Not mine, certainly. But what if I should lie ( ), intransitively?
I should tell no falsehoods.

But enough of this. If there is any thing irrational or inconsistent, any thing false or ridiculous,
in this view of the subject, it should be remembered that it has been long taught, not only
in common schools, but in our academies and colleges, as serious, practical truth; as the only
means of acquiring a correct knowledge of language, or fitting ourselves for usefulness or
respectability in society. You smile at such trash, and well you may; but you must bear in
mind that grammar is not the only thing in which we may turn round and laugh ( ) at past follies.

But I am disposed to consider this matter of more serious consequence than to deserve our laughter.
When I see the rising generation spend months and years of the best and most important part
of their lives, which should be devoted to the acquisition of that which is true and useful,
studying the dark and false theory of language as usually taught, I am far from feeling any
desire to laugh at the folly which imposes such a task upon them. I remember too distinctly
the years that have just gone by. I have seen too many blighted hopes, too many wearisome hours,
too many sad countenances, too many broken resolutions; to say nothing of corporeal chastisements;
to think it a small matter that children are erroneously taught the rudiments of language,
because sanctioned by age, or great names. A change, an important change, a radical change,
in this department of education, is imperiously demanded, and teachers must obey the call,
and effect the change. There is a spirit abroad in the land which will not bow tamely and without
complaint, to the unwarranted dictation of arbitrary, false, and contradictory rules, merely
from respect to age. It demands reason, consistency and plainness; and yields assent only where
they are found. And teachers, if they will not lead in the reformation, must be satisfied to
follow after; for a reformation is loudly called for, and will be had. None are satisfied with
existing grammars, which, in principle, are nearly alike. The seventy-three attempts to improve
and simplify Murray, have only acted intransitively, and accomplished very little, if any good,
save the employment given to printers, paper makers, and booksellers.

But I will not enlarge. We have little occasion to wonder at the errors and mistakes of grammar
makers, when our lexicographers tell us for sober truth, that =to act=, to be in action, not
to rest, to be in motion, to move, is v. n. a verb neuter, signifying no action!! or v. i.
verb intransitive, producing no effects; and that a "neuter verb =expresses= (active transitive
verb) a state of being!! There are few minds capable of adopting such premises, and drawing
therefrom conclusions which are rational or consistent. Truth is rarely elicted from error,
beauty from deformity, or order from confusion. While, therefore, we allow the neuter systems
to sink into forgetfulness, as they usually do as soon as we leave school and shut our books,
let us throw the mantle of charity over those who have thoughtlessly (without thinking thoughts)
and innocently lead us many months in dark and doleful wanderings, in paths of error and contradiction,
mistaken for the road to knowledge and usefulness. But let us resolve to save ourselves and
future generations from following the same unpleasant and unprofitable course, and endeavor
to reflect the light which may shine upon our minds, to dispel the surrounding darkness, and
secure the light and knowledge of truth to those who shall come after us.

Many philologists have undertaken to explain our language by the aid of foreign tongues. Because
there are genitive cases, different kinds of verbs, six tenses, etc. in the Latin or Greek,
the same distinctions should exist in our grammars. But this argument will not apply, admitting
that other languages will not allow of the plan of exposition we have adopted, which we very
seriously question, tho we have not time to go into that investigation. We believe that the
principles we have adopted are capable of universal application; that what is action in England
would be action in Greece, Rome, Turkey, and every where else; that "like causes will produce
like effects" all the world over. It matters not by whom the action is seen, it is the same,
and all who gather ideas therefrom will describe it as it appears to them, let them speak what
language they may. But if they have no ideas to express, they need no language to speak. Monkeys,
for aught I know to the contrary, can speak as well as we; but the reason they do not, is because
they have nothing to say.

Let Maelzael's automaton chess-player be exhibited to a promiscuous multitude. They would all
attempt a description of it, so far as they were able to gain a knowledge of its construction,
each in his own language. Some might be unable to trace the cause, the moving power, thro all
the curiously arranged means, to the agent who acted as prime mover to the whole affair. Others,
less cautious in their conclusions, might think it a perpetual motion. Such would find a first
cause short of the Creator, the great original of all things and actions; and thus violate
the soundest principles of philosophy. Heaven has never left a vacuum where a new and self
sustaining power may be set in operation independent of his ever-present supervision; and hence
the long talked of perpetual motion is the vainest chimera which ever occupied the human brain.
It may well appear as the opposite extreme of neuter verbs; for, while one would give no action
to matter according to the physical laws which regulate the world, the other would make matter
act of itself, independent of the Almighty. Be it ours to take a more rational and consistent
stand; to view all things and beings as occupying a place duly prescribed by Infinite Wisdom,
acting according to their several abilities, and subject to the regulation of the all-pervading
laws which guide, preserve, and harmonize the whole.

If there is a subject which teaches us beyond controversy the existence of a Supreme Power,
a Universal Father, an all-wise and ever-present God, it is found in the order and harmony
of all things, produced by the regulation of Divine laws; and man's superiority to the rest
of the world is most clearly proved, from the possession of a power to adapt language to the
communication of ideas in free and social converse, or in the transmission of thought, drawn
from an observation and knowledge of things as presented to his understanding.

There is no science so directly important to the growth of intellect and the future happiness
of the child, as the knowledge of language. Without it, what is life? Wherein would man be
elevated above the brute? And what is language without ideas? A sound without harmony--a shadow
without a substance.

Let language be taught on the principles of true philosophy, as a science, instead of an arbitrary,
mechanical business, a mere art, and you will no longer hear the complaint of a "dry, cold,
uninteresting study." Its rules will be simple, plain, and easy; and at every step the child
will increase in the knowledge of more than words, in an acquaintance with principles of natural
and moral science. And if there is any thing that will carry the mind of the child above the
low and grovelling things of earth, and fill the soul with reverence and devotion to the Holy
Being who fills immensity with his presence, it is when, from observing the laws which govern
matter, he passes to observe the powers and capabilities of the mind, and thence ascends to
the Intellectual Source of light, life, and being, and contemplates the perennial and ecstatic
joys which flow from the presence of Deity; soul mingling with soul, love absorbed in love,
and God all in all.

We have gone through the examination of neuter and intransitive verbs, with the exception of
the verb =to be=, which we propose to notice in this place. Much more might be said on the
subjects I have discussed, and many more examples given to illustrate the nature and operation
of actions as expressed by verbs, and also in reference to the objects of action; but I trust
the hints I have given will be satisfactory. I am confident, if you will allow your minds to
think correct thoughts, and not suffer them to be misled by erroneous teaching, you will arrive
at the same conclusion that I have, viz. that all verbs depend on a common principle for their
explanation; that they are alike active, and necessarily take an object after them, either
expressed or understood, in accordance with the immutable law of nature, which teaches that
like causes will produce like effects.

       *       *       *       *       *

The verb =to be=, as it is called, is conjugated by the aid of six different words, in its
various modes and tenses; am, is, are, was, were, be. Am is unchanged, always in the indicative
mood, present tense, agreeing with the first person singular. Is is also unchanged, in the
same mood and tense, agreeing with the third person singular. Art, in the singular, is the
same as are in the plural. Was and wast, are the same as were and wert in meaning, being derived
from the same etymon. Be, being, and been, are changes of the same word. Be was formerly extensively
used in the indicative present, but in that condition it is nearly obsolete. Were was also
used in the singular as well as plural, especially when coming before the agent; as, "were
I to go, I would do your business." But it is now more common to have was correctly used in
that case. But, as one extreme often follows another, people have laid were quite too much
aside, and often crowd was into its place in common conversation; as "we was (were) there yesterday."
"There was (were) five or six men engaged in the business." This error appears to be gaining
ground, and should be checked before it goes farther.

The combination of these different words was produced by habit, to avoid the monotony which
the frequent recurrence of one word, so necessary in the expression of thought, would occasion:
the same as the past tense of go is made by the substitution of another word radically different,
went, the past tense of wend or wind. "O'er hills and dales they wend their way." "The lowing
herd wind slowly o'er the lea." Go and wend convey to our minds nearly the same ideas. The
latter is a little more poetical, because less used. But originally their signification was
quite different. So with the parts of the verb =to be=. They were consolidated as a matter
of convenience, and now appear in their respective positions to express the idea of being,
life, or existence.

I have said this verb expresses the highest degree of action. I will now attempt to prove it.
I should like to go into a labored and critical examination of the words, and trace their changes
thro various languages, was it in accordance with the design of these lectures. But as it is
not, I shall content myself with general observations.

I am.

This word is not defined in our dictionaries. It is only said to be "the first person of to
be." We must look for its meaning some where else. It is a compound of two ancient words, ah,
breath, to breathe, life, to live, light, to light; and ma, the hand, or to hand. It signifies
to vivify, sustain, or support one's self in being or existence. In process of time, like other
things in this mutable world, its form was changed, but the meaning retained. But as one person
could not vivify or live another, inflate another's lungs, or breathe another's breath, it
became restricted to the first person. It means, I breathe breath, vivify myself, live life,
or exercise the power of being or living. It conveys this fact in every instance, for no person
incapable of breathing can say I am. Let any person pronounce the word ah-ma, and they will
at once perceive the appropriateness of the meaning here given. It is very similar to the letter
h, and the pronoun, (originally noun,) he, or the "rough breathing" in the Greek language.
Ma is compounded with many words which express action done by the hand; as, manufacture, manumit.
It denoted any action or work done by the hand as the instrument; but, like other words, it
gradually changed its import, so as to express any effective operation. Hence the union of
the words was natural and easy, and ahma denoted breathing, to live or sustain life. H is a
precarious letter in all languages that use it, as the pronunciation of it by many who speak
the English language, will prove. It was long ago dropt, in this word, and after it the last
a, so that we now have the plain word am.

It was formerly used as a noun in our language, and as such may be found in Exodus 3: 13, 14.
Chap. The word Jehovah is the same as am. It is the name of the self-existent, self-sustaining
=Being=, who has not only power to uphold all things, but to perform the still more sublime
action of upholding or sustaining himself. This is the highest possible degree of action. Let
this fail, and all creation will be a wreck. He is the ever-living, uncontrolled, unfailing,
unassisted, and never-changing God, the Creator, Preserver, Alpha and Omega, the Beginning
and End of all things. He is the First Cause of all causes, the Agent, original moving Power,
and guiding Wisdom, which set in motion the wheels of universal nature, and guides and governs
them without "variableness or the shadow of turning."

    "I AM the first, and I, the last,
      Thro endless years the same;
    I AM is my memorial still,
      And my eternal name."
                              Watts' Hymn.

Ask the Jews the meaning of this neuter verb in their language. They hold it in the most profound
and superstitious reverence. After the captivity of their nation they never dared pronounce
the name except once a year when the high priest went into the Holy of Holies, and hence the
true pronunciation of it was lost. Unto this day they dare not attempt to utter it. In all
their writings it remains in characters untranslated. When their Messiah comes they expect
he will restore the pronunciation, and by it they shall be able to accomplish all things.[15]

According to Plutarch the Greeks had the letters EI, =thou art=, engraven on the temple of
Apollo at Delphi, which is the second person of =Eimi=, I am.[16]

This motto was doubtless borrowed from the Jews, to whom it was given as the name of the God
of Jacob. The same name you may see engraven on monuments, on pictures of the bible, on masonic
implements, and in various places, untranslated.

Who can suppose that this word "expresses no action," when the very person incapable of it
can not utter it, and no one else can speak it for him? It denotes the highest conceivable
action applied to Deity or to man, and it is questionable philosophy which dares contradict
this fact. The action expressed by it, is not changed, because it does not terminate on a foreign
object. It remains the same. It is self-action.

He is.

This word is constructed from an old verb signifying to stand forth, to appear, to show one's
self, and may be traced, I think, to the latin eo, to go, and exist, to exeo, to go from; that
is, our being or existence, came or stood forth from God. It is certainly a contraction from
the old english to exist. Ist is the spelling still retained in the german and some other languages.
It denotes self-action. One man does not exist another, but himself. He keeps himself in existence.

We are, thou are-est, arst, or art.

Be not surprised when I tell you this is the same word as air, for such is the fact. It signifies
to inhale air, to air ourselves, or breathe air. "God breathed into man the breath of life,
and man became a living soul." The new born infant inhales air, inflates its lungs with air,
and begins to live. We all know how essential air is to the preservation of life. No animal
can live an instant without it. Drop a squirrel into a receiver from which all air has been
extracted, and it can not live. Even vegetables will die where there is no air. Light is also
indispensable to life and health. Air is inhaled and exhaled, and from it life receives support.
The fact being common, it is not so distinctly observed by the careless, as tho it was more
rare. But did you never see the man dying of a consumption, when the pulmonary or breathing
organs were nearly decayed? How he labors for breath! He asks to have the windows thrown open.
At length he suffocates and dies. Most persons struggle hard for breath in the hour of dissolving
nature. The heaving bosom, the hollow gasp for air, tells us that the lamp of life is soon
to be extinguished, that the hour of their departure has come.

When a person faints, we carry them into the air, or blow air upon them, that nature may be
restored to its regular course. In certain cases physicians find it necessary to force air
into the lungs of infants; they can after that air, themselves, imbibe or drink in air, or
inspirit themselves with air. But I need not enlarge. Whoever has been deprived of air and
labored hard for breath in a stifled or unwholesome air, can appreciate what we mean.

We were; he was.

I have said before that these words are the same, and are used in certain cases irrespective
of number. I have good authority for this opinion, altho some etymologists give them different
derivations.

Were, wert; worth, werth; word and werde, are derived from the same etymon and retain a similarity
of meaning. They signify spirit, life, energy. "In the beginning was the word, and the word
was with God." "By the word of his grace."

"They were," they inspirited themselves, possessed the life, vitality, or spirit, the Creator
gave them, and having that spirit, life, or energy, under proper regulation, in due degree,
they were worthy of the esteem, regard, sympathy, and good word of others.

To be.

This is considered the root of all the words we have considered, and to it all others are referred
for a definition. Dictionaries give no definition to am, is, are, was, and were, all of them
as truly principal verbs as be, and possessed of as distinct a meaning. It can hardly be possible
that they should form so important a part of our language, and yet be incapable of definition.
But such is the fact, the most significant words in our language, and those most frequently
used, are undefined in the books.

Mr. Webster says =to be= signifies, "to exist, to have a real state or existence," and so say
Walker and Johnson. Now if it is possible to "=have= a state of being without action or passion,"
then may this word express neutrality. But the very definition requires activity, and an object
expressed. It denotes the act of being, or living; to exercise the powers of life, to maintain
a position or rank in the scale of existent things.

The name of the action is being, and applies to the Almighty BEING who exists unchanged as
the source of all inferior beings and things, whose name is Jehovah, I AM, the Being of beings,
the Fountain of light, life, and wisdom.

Be is used in the imperative and infinitive moods correctly, by every body who employs language.
"Be here in ten minutes." "Be it far from thee." "I will be in Boston before noon." If there
is any action in going from Providence to Boston at rail-road speed, in two hours, or before
noon, it is all expressed by the verb be, which we are told expresses no action.

The teacher says to his scholars when out at play, "I want you to be in your seats in five
minutes." What would they understand him to mean? that they should stand still? or that they
should change their state of being from play in the yard, to a state of being in their seats?
There is no word to denote such change, except the word to be. Be off, be gone, be here, be
there, are commands frequently given and correctly understood.

The master says to a bright little lad, who has well learned his grammar, "Be here in a minute."

"Yes, sir, I will be there;" but he does not move.

"Be here immediately."

"Yes, yes, I will be there."

"Don't you understand me? I say, be here instantly."

"Oh, yes, I understand you and will obey."

The good man is enraged. "You scoundrel," says he, "do you mean to disobey my orders and insult
me?"

"Insult you and disobey you; I have done neither," replies the honest boy.

"Yes you have, and I will chastise you severely for it."

"No, master, I have not; I declare, I have not. I have obeyed you as well as I know how, to
the very letter and spirit of your command."

"Didn't I tell you to be here in a minute, and have not you remained where you were? and didn't
you say you would be here?"

"Yes, sir; and did not I do just what you told me to?"

"Why, no, you blockhead; I told you to be here."

"Well, I told you I would be there."

"You was not here."

"Nor did you expect I would be, if you have taught me to speak, write, and understand correctly."

"What do you mean, you saucy boy?"

"I mean to mind my master, and do what he tells me to."

"Why didn't you do so then?"

"I did."

"You didn't."

"I did."

"You lie, you insult me, you contradict me, you saucy fellow. You are not fit to be in school.
I will punish you severely." And in a passion he starts for his ferrule, takes the boys hand,
and bruises him badly; the honest little fellow all the while pleading innocence of any intended
wrong.

In a short time they commence parsing this sentence: "It is necessary to be very particular
in ascertaining the meaning of words before we use them." The master puts to be to the same
boy. He says it is an active verb, infinitive mood.

"How is that? an active verb?"

"Yes, sir."

"No, it is not. It is a neuter verb."

"Begging your pardon, master, it is not. It is active."

"Have I got to punish you again so soon, you impudent fellow. You are not fit to be in school.
I will inform your parents of your conduct."

"What have I done that is wrong?"

"You say to be is an active verb, when I tell you, and the grammar and dictionary tell you,
it is neuter!"

"What is a neuter verb, master?"

"It expresses 'neither action nor passion, but being or a state of being.' Have you forgotten it?"

"No, sir, I thought that was the case."

"What did you ask me for then?"

"Because I supposed you had found another meaning for it."

"To what do you allude, you troublesome fellow, you? I'll not bear your insults much longer."

"For what did you punish me so severely just now?"

"For disobeying my orders."

"What did you order me to do?"

"To be here in a minute."

"Well, did not I do what you told me?"

"No; you kept your seat, and did not come near me."

"Well, I thought and did just what you now tell me; that to be is a neuter verb, expressing
no action, but being. I had a state of being, and promised to keep it, and did keep it, and
you punished me for doing the very thing you told me to do!!"

The master looked down, shut up his book, and began to say that grammar is a "dry, cold, and
useless" study, hardly worth the trouble of learning it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, who is, and who was, and
who is to come, the Almighty."--Rev. 1: 8.

If there is any action in maintaining eternal existence, by which all things were created and
are upheld, it is expressed in the verbs am, is, and was.

God said, "Let there be light, and there was light;" or more properly rendered, "Light =be=,
and light =was=."

Was there no action in setting the sun, moon and stars in the firmament, and in causing them
to send forth the rays of light to dispel the surrounding darkness? If there was, be and was
denote that action.

"You are commanded =to be= and appear before the court of common pleas," etc. A heavy penalty
is imposed upon those who fail to comply with this citation--for neglecting to do what is expressed
by the neuter verb to be.

Such cases might be multiplied without number, where this verb is correctly used by all who
employ language, and correctly understood by all who are capable of knowing the meaning of
words. But I think you must all be convinced of the truth of our proposition, that all verbs
express action, either real or relative; and in all cases have an object, expressed or necessarily
implied, which stands as the effect, and an agent, as the cause of action: and hence that language,
as a means for the communication of thought, does not deviate from the soundest principles
of philosophy, but in all cases, rightly explained, serves to illustrate them, in the plainest
manner.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few remarks on the "Passive Verb," and I will conclude this part of our subject, which has
already occupied much more of our attention than I expected at the outset.

"A verb passive expresses a passion or a suffering, or the receiving of an action; and necessarily
implies an object acted upon, and an agent by which it is acted upon; as, to be loved; Penelope
is loved by me."

In the explanation of this verb, grammarians further tell us that a passive verb is formed
by adding the verb to be, which is thus made auxiliary, to a past participle; as, Portia was
loved. Pompey was conquered.

It is singular how forgetful our great men sometimes are about observing their own rules. Take
an instance in Mr. Walker's octavo dictionary. Look for the word simeter, a small sword. You
will find it spelled scimitar. Then turn over, and you will find it simitar, with the same
definition, and the remark, "more properly cimetar." Then turn back, and find the correct word
as he spells it, and there you will find it cimeter.

Unsettled as to the true spelling, go to our own honored Webster. Look for "scimiter." He says,
see cimitar. Then look for "cimitar;" see cimeter. Then hunt up the true word, be it ar or
er, and you will find it still another way, cimiter. Here the scholar has seven different ways
to spell this word, and neither of his authorities have followed their own examples. I cite
this as one of a thousand instances, where our savans have laid down rules for others, and
disregarded them themselves.

Portia is loved and happy. She is respectable, virtuous, talented, and respected by all who
know her. She is seated by the door. Does the door seat her? What agent, then, causes her passion
or suffering?

The book is printed. Will you parse is printed? It is a passive verb, indicative mood, present
tense. Who is printing it? causing it, in the present tense, to suffer or receive the action?
The act of printing was performed a hundred years ago. How can it be present time?

Penelope is loved by me. The blow is received by me. It is given by me. Penelope is seated
by me. The earthquake is felt by her. The evils are suffered by her. The thunder is heard by
her. Does this mean that she is the agent, and the earthquake, evils, and thunder, are the
objects which receive the effects which she produces? That would be singular philosophy, indeed.
But to feel, to suffer, and to hear, are active, and are constructed into passive verbs. Why
is it not as correct to say she is suffering by another's wrongs, is raging by the operation
of passion, or is travelling by rail-road, are passive verbs? The fact is, our language can
not be explained by set rules or forms of speech. We must regard the sense. The past participle,
as it is called, becomes an adjective by use, and describes her as some way affected by a previous
action. She is learned, handsome, modest, and, of course, beloved by all who know her.

To say "she is placed by the water's edge," is a passive verb, and that the water's edge, as
the agent, causes her "passion, suffering, or receiving of the action," is false and ridiculous,
for she placed herself there.

"We are seated on our seats by the stove." What power is now operating on us to make us suffer
or receive the action of being seated on our seats? Does the stove perform this action? This
is a passive verb, present tense, which requires an "object acted upon, and an agent by which
it is acted upon." But we came in and seated ourselves here an hour ago.

The man is acquitted. He stands acquitted before the public. He is learned, wise, and happy,
very much improved within a few years. He is always active, studious, and engaged in his own
affairs. He is renowned, and valorous. She is respected. She lives respected.

If there is such a thing as a passive verb, it can never be used in the present tense, for
the action expressed by the principal verb which is produced by the agent operating upon the
object, is always past tense, and the auxiliary, or helping verb to be, is always present.
Let this verb be analyzed, and the true meaning of each word understood, little difficulty
will be found in giving it an explanation.

I will not spend more time in exposing the futility of this attempted distinction. It depends
solely on a verbal form, but can never be explained so as to be understood by any scholar.
Most grammarians have seen the fallacy of attempting to give the meaning of this verb. They
can show its form, but are frequently compelled, as in the cases above, to sort out the "passed
participles" from a host of adjectives, and it will be found exceeding troublesome to make
scholars perceive any difference in the use of the words, or in the construction of a sentence.
But it may be they have never thought that duty belonged to them; that they have nothing to
do but to show them what the book says. Suppose they should teach arithmetic on the same principles,
and learn the scholars to set down 144 as the product of 12 times 12. Let them look at the
form of the figures, observe just how they appear, and make some more like them, and thus go
thro the book. What would the child know of arithmetic? Just as much as they do of grammar,
and no more. They would understand nothing of the science of numbers, of proportion, or addition.
They would exercise the power of imitation, and make one figure look like another. Beyond that,
all would be a terra incognita, a land unknown. So in the science of language; children may
learn that the verb to be, joined with the past participle of an active verb, makes a passive
verb; but what that passive verb is when made, or how to apply it, especially in the present
tense, they have no means of knowing. Their knowledge is all taken on trust, and when thrown
upon their own resources, they have none on which to rely.

We are now come to consider the different relations of action in reference to manner and time.
We shall endeavor to be as brief as possible upon this subject, keeping in view meanwhile that
candor and perspicuity which are indispensable in all our attempts to explain new views.

Mood signifies manner. Applied to verbs it explains how, in what manner, by what means, under
what circumstances, actions are performed.

There are three moods, the indicative or declarative, the imperative or commanding, and the
infinitive or unlimited.

The indicative mood declares an action to be done or doing, not done, or not doing. It is always
in the past or present tense; as, David killed Goliath; scholars learn knowledge; I spoke not
a word; they sing not.

The imperative mood denotes a command given from the first person to the second, to do or not
do an action. It expresses the wish or desire of the first person to have a certain action
performed which depends on the agency of the second. The command is present, but the action
signified by the word is future to the giving of the command. The second person cannot comply
with the will of the first till such will is made known; as, bring me a book; go to the door.

The infinitive mood has no direct personal agent, but is produced as a necessary consequence,
growing out of a certain condition of things. It is always future to such condition; that is,
some prior arrangement must be had before such consequences will follow. It is always future;
as, they are collecting a force to besiege the city. We study grammar to acquire a knowledge
of language. Windows are made to admit light. The act of besieging the city depends on the
previous circumstance, the collection of a force to do it. Were there no windows, the light
would not be admitted to the room.

These distinctions in regard to action must be obvious to every hearer. You all are aware of
the fact that action necessarily implies an actor, as every effect must have an efficient cause;
and such action clearly or distinctly indicated, must have such an agent to produce it. 2d.
You are acquainted with the fact that one person can express his will to the second, directing
him to do or avoid some thing. 3d. From an established condition of things, it is easy to deduce
a consequence which will follow, in the nature of things, as an unavoidable result of such
a combination of power, cause, and means.

With these principles you are all familiar, whether you have studied grammar or not. They are
clearly marked, abundantly simple, and must be obvious to all. They form the only necessary,
because the only real, distinction, in the formation and use of the verb to express action.
Any minor distinctions are only calculated to perplex and embarrass the learner.

But some grammarians have passed these natural barriers, and built to themselves schemes to
accord with their own vain fancies. The remarks of Mr. Murray upon this point are very appropos.
He says:

"Some writers have given our moods a much greater extent than we have assigned to them. They
assert that the english language may be said, without any great impropriety, to have as many
moods as it has auxiliary verbs; and they allege, in support of their opinion, that the compound
expression which they help to form, point out those various dispositions and actions, which,
in other languages, are expressed by moods. This would be to multiply the moods without advantage.
It is, however, certain, that the conjugation or variation of verbs, in the english language,
is effected, almost entirely, by the means of auxiliaries. We must, therefore, accommodate
ourselves to this circumstance; and do that by their assistance, which has been done in the
learned languages (a few instances to the contrary excepted) in another manner, namely, by
varying the form of the verb itself. At the same time, it is necessary to set proper bounds
to this business, so as not to occasion obscurity and perplexity, when we mean to be simple
and perspicuous. Instead, therefore, of making a separate mood for every auxiliary verb, and
introducing moods interrogative, optative, promissive, hortative, precative, &c., we have exhibited
such only as are obviously distinct; and which, whilst they are calculated to unfold and display
the subject intelligibly to the learner, seem to be sufficient, and not more than sufficient,
to answer all the purposes for which moods were introduced.

Had he followed this rule, he would have saved weeks and months to every student in grammar
in the community. But his remarks were aimed at Mr. Harris, who was by far the most popular
writer on language in England at that time. He has adopted the very rules of Mr. Murray, and
carried them out. By a careful observance of the different forms and changes of the verb and
its auxiliaries, he makes out quite evidently to his own mind, fourteen moods, which I forbear
to name.

Most grammarians contend for five moods, two of which, the potential or powerful, and the subjunctive,
are predicated on the same principles as Mr. Harris' optative, interrogative, etc., which they
condemn. It is impossible to explain the character of these moods so as to be understood. If,
it is said, is the sign of the subjunctive, and may and can of the potential; and yet they
are often found together; as, "I will go if I can." No scholar can determine in what mood to
put this last verb. It of right belongs to both the potential and subjunctive. If I may be
allowed to speak my mind, I should say that such distinctions were false.

I will not go into an exposure of these useless and false distinctions, which are adopted to
help carry out erroneous principles. The only pretence for a subjunctive mood is founded on
the fact that be and were were formerly used in a character different from what they are at
present. Be was used in the indicative mood, present tense, when doubt or supposition was implied;
as, If I be there; if they be wise. Be I a man, and receive such treatment? Were was also used
instead of was in the past tense; as, "Were I an American I would fight for liberty. If I were
to admit the fact." In this character these words are rapidly becoming obsolete. We now say,
"If I am there; am I a man, and receive such abuses? was I an American; if I was to admit," etc.

All the round about, perplexing, and tedious affair of conjugating verbs thro the different
modes and tenses will appear in its true character, when we come to give you a few brief examples,
according to truth and plain sense. But before doing that it will be necessary to make some
remarks on time.

Tense means time. We distinguish time according to certain events which are generally observed.
In the use of the verb we express action in reference to periods of time when it is performed.

There are three tenses, or divisions of time; past, present, and future.

Past tense applies to actions which are accomplished; as, I wrote a book; he recited his lesson.

Present tense denotes actions commenced, but not finished, and now in operation; as, he reads
his book; we sit on our seats and hear the lecture.

Future tense refers to actions, which are to take place hereafter; as, I am to go from the
Institute; we desire to learn grammar correctly.

Every body can mark three plain distinctions of time, past, present, and future. With the past
we have been acquainted. It has ceased to be. Its works are ended. The present is a mere line--,
nothing as it were--which is constantly passing unchecked from the past to the future. It is
a mere division of the past and future. The Hebrew, which is strictly a philosophic language,
admits no present; only a past and future. We speak of the present as denoting an action begun
and not finished. In the summer, we say the trees grow, and bear fruit. But when the fruit
is fallen, and the leaves seared by the frost, we change the expression, and say, it grew and
bore fruit.

Of the future we can know nothing definitely. Heaven has hung before all human eyes an impenetrable
veil which obscures all future events. No man without prophetic vision bestowed by Him who
"sees the end from the beginning," can know what is to be, and no expression can be made, no
words employed which will positively declare a future action. We may see a present condition
of things, and from it argue what is to be, or take place hereafter; but all that knowledge
is drawn from the past and deduced from a review of the present relation and tendencies of things.

I hold the paper near the fire and you say it will burn, and you say truly, for it has a will,
or what is the same, an inherent tendency to burn. It is made of combustible matter, like paper
which we have seen burn, and hence we argue this has the same tendency to be consumed. But
how does your mind arrive at that fact? If you had never seen a substance like it burn, why
should you conclude this will? Does the child know it will burn? No; for it has not yet learned
the quality of the paper. It is not till the child has been burned that it dreads the fire.
Suppose I take some asbestus, of the kind called amianthus, which is a mineral, and is formed
of slender flexible fibres like flax; and in eastern countries, especially in Savoy and Corsica,
is manufactured into cloth, paper, and lamp wicks. It was used in making winding sheets for
the dead, in which the bodies were burned, and the ashes, retained in the incombustible sheet,
were gathered into an urn, and revered as the manes of the dead. Suppose I take some of this
incombustible paper or cloth, and present to you. You say it will burn. Why do you say thus?
Because you have seen other materials which appear like this, consume to ashes. Let us put
it into the fire. It will not burn. It has no tendency to burn; no quality which will consume.
But this is a new idea to you and hence your mistake. You did not know it would burn, nor could
you indicate such a fact. You only told your opinion derived from the present appearance of
things, and hence you made an assertion in the indicative mood, present tense, and added to
it an infinitive mood, in order to deduce the consequence of this future action--it wills,
or has a tendency to burn. But you were mistaken, because ignorant of the nature of things.
This amianthus looks like flax, and to a person unacquainted with it, appears to be as truly
combustible; but the mineralogist, and all who know its properties, know very well that it
will not--wills nothing, has no inclination, or tendency, to burn.

Take another example. Here is a steel needle. I hold it before you. You say, "if I let go of
it, it will fall," and you say correctly, for it has such a tendency. But suppose a magnet,
as great as that which is said to have drawn the iron coffin of Mohammed to the roof of the
temple at Mecca, should be placed in the room above us. The needle, instead of falling to the
floor, would be drawn in the nearest direction to that magnet. The will or tendency of the
needle, as generally understood, would be overcome, the natural law of gravitation would lose
its influence, by the counteracting power of the loadstone.

I say, "I will go home in an hour." But does that expression indicate the act of going? It
is placed in the indicative mood in our grammars; and go is the principal, and will the auxiliary
verb. May be I shall fall and die before I reach my home. But the expression is correct; will
is present, go future. I will, I now resolve, am now inclined to go home.

You see the correctness of our position, that we can not positively assert a future active
in the indicative mood. Try and form to yourselves a phrase by which it can be done. Should
you succeed, you would violate a law of nature. You would penetrate the dark curtain of the
future, and claim to yourself what you do not possess, a power to declare future actions. Prophets,
by the help of the Almighty, had this power conferred upon them. But in the revelation of the
sublime truths they were instructed to make known, they were compelled to adopt human language,
and make it agree with our manner of speech.

The only method by which we express a future event, is to make an assertion in the indicative
mood, present tense, and to that append the natural consequence in the infinitive or unlimited;
as, I am to go to Boston. He is preparing to visit New-York. The infinitive mood is always
future to the circumstance on which it depends.

Mr. Murray says, that "tense, being the distinction of time, might seem to admit of only the
present, past, and future; but to mark it more accurately, it is made to consist of six variations,
viz.: the present, imperfect, perfect, pluperfect, first and second future tenses." This more
accurate mark, only serves to expose the author's folly, and distract the learner's mind. Before,
all was plain. The past, present, and future are distinct, natural divisions, easily understood
by all. But what idea can a person form of an imperfect tense in action. If there was ever
such an action in the world, it was when grammarians =made= their grammars, which is, if I
mistake not, according to their own authority, in the im-perfect tense! I wrote a letter. He
read his piece well. The scholar learned and recited his lesson perfectly; and yet learned,
tho made perfect by the qualification of an adverb, is an imperfect action!

But this explains the whole mystery in the business of grammar. We can here discover the cause
of all the troubles and difficulties we have encountered in the whole affair. When authors
made their books, they did it imperfectly; when teachers taught them, it was imperfectly; and
when scholars learned them, it was imperfectly!! So at last, we have found the origin of this
whole difficulty, in the grammars themselves; it was all imperfectly done.

But here, again, mirabile dictu! wonderful to tell, we are presented with a plu-perfect tense;
that is,--plus means more,--a more than perfect tense! What must that be? If a thing is perfect,
we can not easily conceive any thing beyond. That is a ne plus ultra to all advancement--there
can be no more beyond. If any change is introduced, it must be by falling from perfect back
to imperfect.

I have said, "many of the distinctions in the grammar books have proved mischievous; that they
are as false as frivolous;" and this is said perfectly, in the perfect tense. If I should say,
"they had been of some benefit," that would be more than perfect--plu-perfect. But when I say,
"they exhibited great depth of research, and conveyed some light on the subject of which they
treated," it would all be im-perfect.

Next, we are presented with a second future tense, which attempts a division of time unbounded
and unknown. In the greek, they have what is called a "paulo post future," which in plain english,
means a "little after the future;" that is, I suppose, when futurity has come to an end, this
tense will commence! At that time we may expect to meet a "præter plus quam perfectum"--a more
than perfect tense! But till that period shall arrive, we see little need of making such false
and unphilosophic distinctions.

A teacher once told me that he explained the distinctions of time to his scholars from the
clock dial which stood in the school room. Suppose twelve o'clock represents the present tense;
nine would signify the perfect; any thing between nine and twelve would be imperfect; any thing
beyond, pluperfect. On the other hand, any act, forward of twelve, would be future; and at
three the second future would commence. I remarked that I thought this a wonderful improvement,
especially to those who were able to have clocks by which to teach grammar, but that I could
not discover why he did not have three future, as well as three past tenses. Why, he said,
there were no such tenses marked in the books, and hence there was no occasion to explain them.
I asked him why he did not have a tense for every hour, and so he could distinguish with Mr.
Webster, twelve tenses, without any trouble whatever; and, by going three times round the dial,
he could easily prove the correctness of Dr. Beattie's division; for he says, in his grammar,
there are thirty-six tenses, and thinks there can not be less without "introducing confusion
in the grammatical art." But he thought such a course would serve rather to perplex than enlighten;
and so thought I. But he was the teacher of a popular school in the city of ----, and had published
a duodecimo grammar of over 300 pages, entitled "Murray's Grammar, improved, by ----." I will
not give his name; it would be libellous!

Mr. Murray thinks because certain things which he asserts, but does not prove, are found in
greek and latin, "we may doubtless apply them to the english verb; and extend the principle
as far as convenience, and the idiom of our language require." He found it to his "convenience"
to note six principal, and as many indefinite tenses. Mr. Webster does the same. Dr. Beattie
found it "convenient" to have thirty-six. In the greek they have nine. Mr. Bauzee distinguishes
in the french twenty tenses; and the royal academy of Spain present a very learned and elaborate
treatise on seven future tenses in that language. The clock dial of my friend would be found
quite "convenient" in aiding the "convenience" of such distinctions.

The fact is, there are only three real divisions of time in any language, because there are
only three in nature, and the ideas of all nations must agree in this respect. In framing language
it was found impossible to mark any other distinctions, without introducing other words than
those which express simple action. These words became compounded in process of time, till they
are now used as changes of the same verb. I would here enter into an examination of the formation
of the tenses of greek, latin, french, spanish, and german verbs, did I conceive it necessary,
and show you how, by compounding two words, they form the various tenses found in the grammars.
But it will be more edifying to you to confine my remarks to our own language. Here it will
be found impossible to distinguish more than three tenses, or find the verb in any different
form, except by the aid of other words, wholly foreign from those that express the action under
consideration.

It is by the aid of auxiliary verbs that the perfect, pluperfect, or future tenses are formed.
But when it is shown you that these are principal verbs, and like many other words, are used
before the infinitive mood without the word to prefixed to them, you will perceive the consistency
of the plan we propose. That such is the fact we have abundant evidence to show, and with your
consent we will introduce it in this place. I repeat, all the words long considered auxiliaries,
are principal verbs, declarative of positive action, and as such are in extensive use in our
language. We can hardly agree that the words will, shall, may, must, can, could, would, should,
etc. have no meaning, as our grammars and dictionaries would teach us; for you may look in
vain for a definition of them, as principal verbs, with a few exceptions.

The reason these words are not found in the same relation to other words, with a to after them,
is because they are so often used that we are accustomed to drop that word. The same may be
said of all small words in frequent use; as, bid, do, dare, feel, hear, have, let, make, see,
and sometimes needs, tell, and a few others. Bid him go. I dare say so. I feel it move. We
hear him sing. Let us go. Make him do it. He must go thro Samaria. Tell him do it immediately.

It is a singular fact, but in keeping with neuter verb systems, that all the neuter verbs as
well as the active, take these auxiliary or helping verbs, which, according to their showing
help them do nothing--"express neither action or passion." A wonderful help indeed!

       *       *       *       *       *

=Will.= This verb signifies to wish, to resolve, to exercise volition, in reference to a certain
thing or action. "I will go." I now resolve to perform the act of going. When applied to inanimate
things incapable of volition, it signifies what is analogous to it, inherent tendency; as,
paper will burn; iron will sink; water will run. All these things have an inherent or active
tendency to change. Water is composed of minute particles of a round form, piled together.
While on a level they do not move; but let a descent be made, and these particles, under the
influence of gravitation, will change position, and roll one over another with a rapidity equalled
to the condition in which they are placed. The same may be observed in a quantity of shot opened
at one side which will run thro the aperture; but the particles being larger, they will not
find a level like water. Grain, sand, and any thing composed of small particles, will exhibit
the same tendency. Iron, lead, or any mineral, in a state of igneous solution, will run, has
the same inclination to run as water, or any other liquid. In oil, tallow, and lard, when expanded
by heat, the same tendency is observed; but severely chilled with the cold, it congeals, and
will not, has no such tendency, to run.

You have doubtless observed a cask filled with water and nearly tight, (if it is possible,
make it quite so,) and when an aperture is made in the side, it will run but a trifle before
it will stop. Open a vent upon the top of the cask and it will run freely. This will or tendency
was counteracted by other means which I will not stop here to explain.

This is a most important word in science, physical and moral, and may be traced thro various
languages where it exerts the same influence in the expression of thought. § 30.

It is correctly applied by writers to matter as well as mind, as may be seen by consulting
their works.

    "Meanwhile as nature wills, night bids us rest."
                              Milton.

The lupulis, or common hop, feels for some elevated object which will assist it in its high
aspirations, and will climb it by winding from left to right, and will not be obliged to go
in an opposite direction; while the phaseolus, or kidney bean, takes the opposite direction.
Neither will be compelled to change its course. They will have their own way, and grow as they
please, or they will die in the contest for liberty.

Arsenic has a tendency in itself, a latent power, which only requires an opportunity suited
to its objects, when it will act in the most efficacious manner. It will destroy the life of
the Emperor, who has voluntarily slain his thousand and tens of thousands. This secret power
does not reside in the flour of wheat, for that will not, has no tendency, to produce such
disastrous consequences.

This word is applied in a similar manner to individuals and nations. The man will fall, not
of intention, but of accident. He will kill himself. The man will drown, and the boat will
swim. The water will hold up the boat, but it will allow the man to sink. The Russians will
conquer the Turks. If conquest depended solely on the will, the Turks would as soon conquer
as the Russians. But I have not time to pursue this topic farther. You can follow out these
hints at your leisure.

=Shall= signifies to be bound, obligated, or required, from external necessity. Its etymology
may be traced back thro various languages. It is derived direct from the saxon scaelan or scylan,
and is found as a principal verb in that language, as well as in ours. In the church homily
they say, "To Him alone we schall us to devote ourselves;" we bind or obligate ourselves. Chaucer,
an early english poet, says.

    "The faith we shall to God."

Great difficulty has been found in distinguishing between shall and will, and frequent essays
have been written, to give arbitrary rules for their use. If the words were well understood,
there could be no difficulty in employing them correctly. Will signifies inherent tendency,
aptitude, or disposition, and volition in beings capable of using it. Shall implies external
necessity, or foreign obligation. The parent says, "You will suffer misery if you do evil,"
for it is in accordance with the nature of things for evil to produce misery. "You shall regard
my wishes," for you are under obligation, from the relation in which you stand to me, to do
so. Let these words be clearly explained, and there will be no difficulty in using them correctly.

=May=, past tense might. This verb expresses power, strength, or ability to perform an action.
It is a mistake that it means permission or liberty only. It implies more than that, the delegation
of a power to perform the contemplated action. Suppose the scholar should faint, would the
teacher say to him you may go into the open air? He has no power, might, or strength, communicated
by such liberty, and must receive the might or strength of others to carry him out. But to
the scholar in health he says you may go out, thereby giving to him a power and liberty sufficient
to perform the action. This is done on the same principle that one man gives another a "power
of attorney" to transact his business; and that power constitutes his liberty of action.

=Must= signifies to be confined, limited, bound, or restrained. I must, or am bound, to obey;
certain obligations require me to obey. The adjective of this word is in common use. The air
in the cask is musty. It has long been bound or confined there, and prevented from partaking
of the purifying qualities of the atmosphere, and hence has become musty.

=Can.= This word is found as a principal verb and as a noun in our language, especially in
the Scotch dialect. "I ken nae where he'd gone." Beyond the ken of mortals. Far from all human
ken. It signifies to know, to perceive, to understand. I knew not where he had gone. Beyond
the knowledge of mortals. Far from all human reach. To con or cun is a different spelling of
the same word. Cunning is that quick perception of things, which enables a person to use his
knowledge adroitly. The child can read; knows how to read. It can walk. Here it seems to imply
power; but power, in this case, as in most others, is gained only by knowledge, for =knowledge
is power=. Many children have strength sufficient to walk, long before they do. The reason
why they can not walk, is, they do not know how; they have not learned to balance themselves
in an erect position, so as to move forward without falling.

A vast proportion of human ability is derived from knowledge. There is not a being in creation
so entirely incapable of self-support, as the new-born infant; and yet, by the help of knowledge,
he becomes the lord of this lower world. Bonaparte was once as helpless as any other child,
and yet by dint of can, ken, cunning, or knowledge, he made all Europe tremble. But his knowledge
was limited. He became blind to danger, bewildered by success, and he could no longer follow
the prudent course of wisdom, but fell a sacrifice to his own unbridled ambition, and blinded
folly. An enlightened people can govern themselves; but power of government is gained by a
knowledge of the principles of equality, and mutual help and dependency; and whenever the people
become ignorant of that fact, they will fall, the degraded victims of their own folly, and
the wily influence of some more knowing aspirant for power.

This is a most important topic; but I dare not pursue it farther, lest I weary your patience.
A few examples must suffice.

    "Jason, she cried, for aught I see or can,
    This deed," &c.
                              Chaucer.

                          A famous man,
    Of every witte somewhat he can,
    Out take that him lacketh rule,
    His own estate to guide and rule.
                              Gower.

=Do= has been called a helping verb; but it needs little observation to discover that it is
no more so than a hundred other words. "Do thy diligence to come before winter." "Do the work
of an evangelist."--Paul to Timothy. I do all in my power to expose the error and wickedness
of false teaching. Do afford relief. Do something to afford relief.

=Have= has also been reckoned as an auxiliary by the "helping verb grammars," which has no
other duty to perform than help conjugate other verbs thro some of their moods and tenses.
It is a word in very common use, and of course must possess a very important character, which
should be carefully examined and distinctly known by all who desire a knowledge of the construction
of our language.

The principal difficulty in the explanation of this word, is the peculiar meaning which some
have attached to it. It has been defined to denote possession merely. But when we say, a man
has much property destroyed by fire, we do not mean that he gains or possesses much property
by the fire; nor can we make has auxiliary to destroyed, for in that case it would stand thus:
a man has destroyed much property by fire, which would be false, for the destruction was produced
by an incendiary, or some other means wholly unknown to him.

You at once perceive that to possess is not the only meaning which attaches to have. It assumes
a more important rank. It can be traced, with little change in form, back thro many generations.
It is the same word as heave, originally, and retains nearly the same meaning. Saxon habban,
Gothic haban, German haben, Latin habeo, French avoir, are all the same word, varied in spelling
more than in sound; for b in many languages is sounded very much like v, or bv. It may mean
to hold, possess, retain, sway, control, dispose of, either as a direct or relative action;
for a man sustains relations to his actors, duties, family, friends, enemies, and all the world,
as well as to his possessions. He has a hard task to perform. He has much pain to suffer. He
has suffered much unhappiness.

I have written a letter. I have a written letter. I have a letter written. These expressions
differ very little in meaning, but the verb have is the same in each case. By the first expression,
I signify that I have caused the letter to be written; by the second that I have a letter on
which such action has been performed; and by the third, that such written letter stands in
such relation to myself.

I have written a letter and sent it away. Written is the past participle from write; as an
adjective it describes the letter in the condition I placed it; so that it will be defined,
wherever it is found, as my letter; that is, some way related to me.

We can here account for the old perfect tense, which is said, "not only to refer to what is
past, but also to convey an allusion to the present time." The verb is in the present tense,
the participle is in the past, and hence the reason of this allusion. I have no space allowed
me to go into a full investigation of this word, in its application to the expression of ideas.
But it is necessary to have it well understood, as it has an important service entrusted to
it; and I hope you will have clear views presented to your minds, strong enough to have former
errors eradicated therefrom.

If you have leisure granted, and patience and disposition equal-ed to the task, you have my
consent to go back and read this sentence over again. You will find it has in it embodied much
important information in relation to the use of have and the perfect tense.

I have said before that action can never be known separate from the actor; that the verb applies
to the agent in an acting condition, as that term has been defined and should be understood.
Hence Person and Number can never attach to the verb, but to the agent with which, of course,
the action must, in every respect, agree; as, "I write." In this case the action corresponds
with myself. But to say that write is in the "first person, singular number," would be wrong,
for no such number or person belongs to the verb, but is confined to myself as the agent of
the action.

The form of the verb is changed when it agrees with the second or third person singular; more
on account of habit, I apprehend, than from any reason, or propriety as to a change of meaning
in the word. We say, when using the regular second person singular, "thou writest," a form
rarely observed except in addresses to Deity, or on solemn occasions. In the third person,
an s is added to the regular form; as, "he writes." The old form, which was in general use
at the time the common version of the Bible was published, was still different, ending in eth;
as, he thinketh, he writeth. This style, altho considerably used in the last century, is nearly
obsolete. When the verb agrees with the plural number it is usually the same as when it agrees
with the first person; as, "We write, you write, they write." There are few exceptions to these
rules.

Some people have been very tenacious about retaining the old forms of words, and our books
were long printed without alteration; but change will break thro every barrier, and book-makers
must keep pace with the times, and put on the dress that is catered for them by the public
taste; bearing in mind, meanwhile, that great and practical truths are more essential than
the garb in which they appear. We should be more careful of our health of body and purity of
morals than of the costume we put on. Many genteel coats wrap up corrupt hearts, and fine hats
cover silly heads. What is the chaff to the wheat?

Even our good friends, the quakers, who have particularly labored to retain old forms--"the
plain language,"--have failed in their attempt, and have substituted the object form of the
pronoun for the agent, and say, "thee thinks," for thou thinkest. Their mistake is even greater
than the substitution of you for thou.

So far as language depends on the conventional regulation of those who use it, it will be constantly
changing; new words will be introduced, and the spelling of old ones altered, so as to agree
with modern pronounciation. We have all lived long enough to witness the truth of this remark.
The only rule we can give in relation to this matter is, to follow our own judgments, aided
by our best writers and speakers.

The words which express action, are in many cases very similar to the agents which produce
them; and the objects which are the direct results produced by such action, do not differ very
materially. I will give you a few examples.

    Agent.           Verb.        Object.
    Actors             Act            Actions
    Breathers          Breathe        Breath
    Builders           Build          Buildings
    Coiners            Coin           Coins
    Casters            Cast           Casts or castings
    Drinkers           Drink          Drink
    Dreamers           Dream          Dreams
    Earners            Earn           Earnings
    Fishers            Fish           Fishes
    Gainers            Gain           Gain
    Hewers             Hew            Hewings
    Innkeepers         Keep           Inns
    Light or lighters  Light or shed  Lights
    Miners             Mine or dig    Mines
    Pleaders           Plead or make  Pleas
    Producers          Produce        Products
    Raisers            Raise          Raisings or houses
    Runners or racers  Run            Runs or races
    Sufferers          Suffer         Sufferings
    Speakers           Speak          Speeches
    Thinkers           Think          Thoughts
    Writers            Write          Writings
    Workers            Work           Works

I give you these examples to show you the near alliance between actors, (  ,) and actions;
or agents, actions, and objects. Such expressions as the above are inelegant, because they
are uncommon; but for no other reason, for we, in numberless cases, employ the same word for
agent and verb; as, painters paint buildings, and artists paint paintings; bookbinders bind
books; printers print books, and other prints. A little observation will enable you to carry
out these hints, and profit by them. You have observed the disposition in children, and foreigners,
who are partially acquainted with our language, to make verbs out of almost every noun, which
appears to us very aukward; but was it common, it would be just as correct as the verbs now
used. There are very few verbs which have not a noun to correspond with them, for we make verbs,
that is, we use words to express action, which are nearly allied to the agent with which such
action agrees.[17] From botany we have made botanize; from Mr. McAdam, the inventor of a particular
kind of road, macadamize, which means to make roads as he made them. Words are formed in this
way very frequently. The word church is often used as a noun to express a building used for
public worship; for the services performed in it; for the whole congregation; for a portion
of believers associated together; for the Episcopal order, etc. It is also used as a verb.
Mr. Webster defines it, "To perform with any one the office of returning thanks in the church
after any signal deliverance." But the word has taken quite a different turn of late. To church
a person, instead of receiving him into communion, as that term would seem to imply, signifies
to deal with an offending member, to excommunicate, or turn him out.

But I will not pursue this point any farther. The brief hints I have thrown out, will enable
you to discover how the meaning and forms of words are changed from their original application
to suit the notions and improvements of after ages. A field is here presented which needs cultivation.
The young should be taught to search for the etymology of words, to trace their changes and
meaning as used at different times and by different people, keeping their minds constantly
directed to the object signified by such verbal sign. This is the business of philosophy, under
whatever name it may be taught; for grammar, rhetoric, logic, and the science of the mind,
are intimately blended, and should always be taught in connexion. We have already seen that
words without meaning are like shadows without realities. And persons can not employ language
"correctly," or "with propriety," till they have acquainted themselves with the import of such
language--the ideas of things signified by it. Let this course be adopted in the education
of children, and they will not be required to spend months and years in the study of an "art"
which they can not comprehend, for the simple reason that they can not apply it in practice.
Grammar has been taught as a mere art, depending on arbitrary rules to be mechanically learned,
rather than a science involving the soundest and plainest principles of philosophy, which are
to be known only as developed in common practice among men, and in accordance with the permanent
laws which govern human thought.

Verbs differ in the manner of forming their past tenses, and participles, or adjectives. Those
ending in ed are called regular; those which take any other termination are irregular. There
are about two hundred of the latter in our language, which differ in various ways. Some of
them have the past tense and the past participle the same; as,

    Bid               Bid                 Bid
    Knit              Knit                Knit
    Shut              Shut                Shut
    Let               Let                 Let
    Spread            Spread              Spread, etc.

Others have the past tense and participle alike, but different from the present; as,

    Lend              Lent                Lent
    Send              Sent                Sent
    Bend              Bent                Bent
    Wend              Went                Went
    Build             Built or builded    Built
    Think             Thought             Thought, etc.

Some have the present and past tense and participle different; as,

    Blow              Blew                Blown
    Grow              Grew                Grown
    Begin             Began               Begun
    See               Saw                 Seen
    Write             Wrote               Written
    Give              Gave                Given
    Speak             Spoke               Spoken
    Rise              Rose                Risen
    Fall              Fell                Fallen, etc.

There are a few which are made up of different radicals, which have been wedded together by
habit, to avoid the frequent and unpleasant recurrence of the same word; as,

    Am                Was                 Been
    Go (wend)         Went                Gone, etc.

Some which were formerly irregular, are now generally used with the regular termination, in
either the past tense or participle, or both; as,

    Hang              Hung or hanged      Hung or hanged
    Dare              Dared or durst      Dared
    Clothe            Clad or clothed     Clad or clothed
    Work              Worked or wrought   Worked
    Shine             Shined or shone     Shone or shined
    Spill             Spilled or spilt    Spilt or spilled, etc.

The syllable ed is a contraction of the past tense of do; as, I loved, love did, did love,
or love-ed. He learned, learn did, did learn, or learned. It signifies action, did, done, or
accomplished. You have all lived long enough to have noticed the change in the pronounciation
of this syllable. Old people sound it full and distinct; and so do most others in reading the
scriptures; but not so generally as in former times. In poetry it was usually abbreviated so
as to avoid the full sound; and hence we may account for the irregular termination of many
words, such as heard, for heared; past, for passed; learnt, for learned; built, for builded.
In modern poetry, however, the e is retained, tho sounded no more than formerly.

Ing is derived from the verb to be, and signifies being, existing; and, attached to a verb,
is used as a noun, or adjective, retaining so much of its former character as to have an object
after it which is affected by it; as, "I am writing a lecture." Here writing, the present participle
of write, describes myself in my present employment, and yet retains its action as a verb,
and terminates on lecture as the thing written. "The man was taken in the act of stealing some
money." In this case stealing names the action which the man was performing when detected,
which action thus named, has money for the object on which it terminates.

I barely allude to this subject in this place to give you an idea of the method we adopt to
explain the meaning and use of participles. It deserves more attention, perhaps, to make it
plain to your minds; but as it is not an essential feature in the new system, I shall leave
it for consideration in a future work. Whoever is acquainted with the formation of the present
participle in other languages, can carry out the suggestions I have made, and fully comprehend
my meaning.

I will present you with an example of the conjugations of a few verbs which you are requested
to compare with the "might could would should have been loved" systems, which you were required
to learn in former times. You will find the verb in every form or position in which it ever
occurs in our language, written or spoken.

Conjugation of the regular verb =to love=.

    INDICATIVE MOOD.

                      Singular               Plural

                      I love                 We love
    Present tense     Thou lovest            You love
                      He, she, or it loves   They love

                      I loved                We loved
    Past tense        Thou lovedst           You loved
                      He, she, or it loved   They loved

    IMPERATIVE MOOD.

    Love.

    INFINITIVE MOOD.

    To love.

    PARTICIPLES.

    Present, Loving
    Past, Loved

The irregular verb =to have=, is thus conjugated.

    INDICATIVE MOOD.

                      I have                 We have
    Present tense     Thou hast              You have
                      He has                 They have

                      I had                  We had
    Past tense        Thou hadst             You had
                      He had                 They had

    IMPERATIVE MOOD.

    Have.

    INFINITIVE MOOD.

    To have.

    PARTICIPLES.

    Present, Having
    Past, Had

The irregular verb =to be=, stands thus:

    INDICATIVE MOOD.

                      I am                   We are
    Present tense     Thou art               You are
                      He is                  They are

                      I was                  We were
    Past tense        Thou wast              You were
                      He was                 They were

    IMPERATIVE MOOD.

    Be.

    INFINITIVE MOOD.

    To be.

    PARTICIPLES.

    Present, Being
    Past, Been

These examples will suffice to give you an idea of the ease and simplicity of the construction
of verbs, and by a comparison with old systems, you can, for yourselves, determine the superiority
of the principles we advocate. The above tabular views present every form which the verb assumes,
and every position in which it is found. In use, these words are frequently compounded together;[18]
but with a knowledge of the above principles, and the meaning of the words--a most essential
consideration--you will always be able to analyze any sentence, and parse it correctly. I have
not time to enlarge on this point, to show how words are connected together. Nor do I think
it necessary to enable you to understand my views. To children such a work would be indispensable,
and shall be attended to if we are able to publish a grammar containing the simple principles
of language.

       *       *       *       *       *

The indicative mood is varied four ways. 1st, affirmatively, he writes; 2d, negatively, he
writes not; 3d, interrogatively, does he write? or writes he? 4th, suppositively, if he writes,
suppose he writes, allow he writes.

The first is a simple affirmation of a fact, and is easily understood. The second is formed
by annexing a term to express negation. Not is a contraction from nought or naught, which is
a compound of ne, negative, and ought or aught, ne-aught, meaning no-thing. He writes not;
he writes nothing. He does not write; he does nothing to write. Neither is a compound of ne
and either, not either. He can not read; he can, kens, knows nothing, has no ability to read.

The third is constructed into a question by placing the verb before the agent, or by prefixing
another word before the agent, and then placing the former verb as an infinitive after it;
as, Does he write? or writes he? When another verb is prefixed, one is always chosen which
will best decide the query. Does he any thing to write? Does he make any motions or show any
indications to write? When the will or disposition of a person is concerned, we choose a word
accordingly. Will he write? Has he the will or disposition to write? Can he write? Is he able--knows
he how to write? A little observation will enable you to understand my meaning.

In the fourth place, a supposition is made in the imperative mood, in accordance with which
the action is performed. "If ye love me, keep my commandments." Give, grant, allow, suppose
this fact--you love me, keep my commandments. I will go if I can. I resolve, will, or determine
to go; if, gif, give, grant, allow this fact, I can, ken, know how, or am able to go. But more
on this point when we come to the consideration of contractions.

In this mood the verb must have an agent and object, expressed or implied; as, "farmers cultivate
the soil." But a whole sentence, that is, an idea written out, may perform this duty; as, "The
study of grammar, on false principles, is productive of no good." What is productive of no
good? What is the agent of is? "The study," our books and teachers tell us. But does such a
construction give the true meaning of the sentence? I think not, for study is indispensable
to knowledge and usefulness, and the study of grammar, properly directed, is a most useful
branch of literature, which should never be dispensed with. It is the study of grammar on false
principles, which is productive of no good. You discover my meaning, and will not question
its correctness. You must also see how erroneous it would be to teach children that "to study
is productive of no good." The force of the sentence rests on the "false principles" taught.
Hence the whole statement is truly the agent of the verb.

The object on which the action terminates is frequently expressed in a similar manner; as,
"He wrote to me, that he will adopt the new system of grammar, if he can procure some books
to give his scholars to learn." Will you parse wrote? Most grammarians will call it an intransitive
verb, and make out that "he wrote" nothing to me, because there is no regular objective word
after it. Will you parse that? It is a "conjunction copulative." What does it connect? Unluckily
you have two different tenses connected in this case. Will you parse if? It is a copulative
conjunction, connecting the two members of the sentence--he will adopt if he can procure: Rule,
as above. How exceeding unfortunate! You have two different moods, and too different tenses,
connected by a copulative conjunction which the rule says "connects the same moods and tenses!
What nonsense! What a falsehood! What a fine thing to be a grammarian! And yet, I venture the
opinion, and I judge from what I have seen in myself and others, there is not one teacher in
a hundred who will not learn children to parse as above, and apply the same rule to it. "I
will go if I can." "I do and will contend." "As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall
be." "I am here and must remain." "He will do your business if he has time." "I am resolved
to expose the errors of grammar, and will do it thoroly if I can."

In these examples you have different moods and tenses, indiscriminately, yet correctly coupled
together, despite the rules of syntax which teach us to explain language "with propriety."

That, in the sentence before us, is an adjective, referring to the following sentence, which
is the object of wrote, or is the thing written. "He wrote to me that" fact, sentiment, opinion,
determination, or resolution, that writing, letter, or word--"he will adopt the new system
of grammar, if he can procure some books."

This subject properly belongs to that department of language called syntax; but as I shall
not be able to treat of that in this course of lectures, I throw in here these brief remarks
to give you some general ideas of the arrangement of words into sentences, according to their
true meaning, as obtained from a knowledge of their etymology. You cannot fail to observe this
method of constructing language if you will pay a little attention to it when reading; keeping
all the time in view the fact that words are only the signs of ideas, derived from an observation
of things. You all know that it is not merely the steam that propels the boat, but that it
is steam applied to machinery. Steam is the more latent cause; and the engine with its complicated
parts is the direct means. In the absence of either, the boat would not be propelled. In the
formation of language, I may say correctly, "Solomon built the temple;" for he stood in that
relation to the matter which supposes it would not have been built without his direction and
command. To accomplish such an action, however, he need not raise a hammer or a gavel, or draw
a line on the trestle board. His command made known to his ministers was sufficient to cause
the work to be done. Hence the whole fact is indicated or declared by the single expression,
"Solomon built the temple."

The Imperative mood is unchanged in form. I can say to one man, go, or to a thousand, go. The
commander when drilling one soldier, says, march; and he bids the whole battalion, march. The
agent who is to perform the action is understood when not expressed; as, go, go thou, or go
you. The agent is generally omitted, because the address is given direct to the person who
is expected to obey the instruction, request, or command. This verb always agrees with an agent
in the second person. And yet our "grammars made easy" have given us three persons in this
mood--"Let me love; love, love thou, or do thou love; let him love." In the name of common
sense, I ask, what can children learn by such instruction? "Let me love," in the conjugation
of the verb to love! To whom is this command given? To myself of course! I command myself to
"let me love!" What nonsense! "Let him love." I stand here, you set there, and the third person
is in Philadelphia. I utter these words, "Let him love." What is my meaning? Why, our books
tell us, that the verb to love is third person. Then I command him to let himself love! What
jargon and falsehood! You all know that we can address the second person only. You would call
me insane if I should employ language according to the rules of grammar as laid down in the
standard books. In my room alone, no person near me, I cry out, "let me be quiet"--imperative
mood, first person of to be! Do I command myself to let myself be quiet? Most certainly, if
be is the principal verb in the first person, and let the auxiliary. The teacher observes one
of his pupils take a pencil from a classmate who sets near him. He says, "let him have it."
To whom is the command given? It is the imperative mood, third person of the verb to have.
Does he command the third person, the boy who has not the pencil? Such is the resolution of
the sentence, according to the authority of standard grammars. But where is there a child five
years old who does not know better. Every body knows that he addresses the second person, the
boy who has the pencil, to let the other have it.

Teachers have learned their scholars the first and third persons of this mood when committing
the conjugation of verbs; but not one in ten thousand ever adopted them in parsing. "Let me
love." Let, all parse, Mr. Murray not excepted, in the second person, and love in the infinitive
mood after it, without the sign to; according to the rule, that "verbs which follow bid, dare,
feel, hear, let, needs, speak," etc. are in the infinitive mood. It is strange people will
not eat their own cooking.

There can be no trouble in understanding this mood, as we have explained it, always in the
future tense, that is, future to the command or request, agreeing with the second person, and
never varied on account of number.

The only variation in the infinitive mood is the omission of to in certain cases, which is
considered as a part of the verb; tho in truth it is no more so than when used in the character
of an old fashioned preposition. In certain cases, as we have before observed, it is not expressed.
This is when the infinitive verb follows small words in frequent use; as, shall, will, let,
can, must, may, bid, do, have, make, feel, hear, etc.

This mood is always in the future tense; that is, it is future to the circumstances or condition
of things upon which it depends; as, they are making preparations to raise the building. Here
to raise is future to the preparations, for if they make no preparations, the buildings will
not be raised. The boy studies his book to learn his lesson. If he does not study, he will
not be likely to learn his lesson.

The allied powers of Europe combined their forces to defeat Napoleon. In this instance the
whole expression is in the past tense; nevertheless, the action expressed in the infinitive
mood, was future to the circumstance on which it depended; that is, the defeat was future to
the combination of the forces. Abraham raised the knife to slay his son. Not that he did slay
him, as that sentence must be explained on the common systems, which teach us that to slay
is in the present tense; but he raised the fatal knife for that purpose, the fulfilment of
which was future; but the angel staid his hand, and averted the blow. The patriots of Poland
made a noble attempt to gain their liberty. But they did not gain it, as our grammars would
teach us. To gain was future to the attempt, and failed because the circumstances indicated
by the event, were insufficient to produce so favorable a result.

No person of common discernment can fail to observe the absolute falsehood of existing systems
in respect to this mood. It is used by our authors of grammar in the present and past tenses,
but never in the future. Let us give a moment to the consideration of this matter. Take the
following example. He will prepare himself next week to go to Europe. Let the school master
parse will prepare. It is a verb, indicative mood, first future tense. Next week is the point
in futurity when the preparation will be made. Now parse to go. It is a verb, infinitive mood,
present tense! Then he is already on his way to Europe, when he is not to prepare himself till
next week! An army is collected to fight the enemy. Is the fight already commenced? To fight
is present tense, say the books. We shall study grammar next year, to obtain a knowledge of
the principles and use of language. Is to obtain present tense? If so there is little need
of spending time and money to study for a knowledge we already possess.

    "Hope springs eternal in the human breast;
    Man never is, but always =to be= blest."
                              Pope.

"Who was, and who is, and who is =to come=."--Bible. It is not that a man thinks himself already
in possession of a sufficiency, but hopes =to be= qualified, etc.

I am to go in an hour. He is to go to-morrow. I am ready to hear you recite your lesson. He
has been waiting a long time to see if some new principles will not be introduced. He is prepared
to appear before you whenever you shall direct. We are resolved to employ neuter verbs, potential
and subjunctive moods, im-perfect, plu-perfect, and second future tenses, no longer. False
grammars are only fit-ted to be laid aside. We are in duty bound to regard and adopt truth,
and reject error; and we are determined to do it in grammar, and every thing else.

We are not surprised that people cannot comprehend grammar, as usually taught, for it is exceedingly
difficult to make error appear like truth, or false teaching like sound sentiment. But I will
not stop to moralize. The hints I have given must suffice.

Much more might be said upon the character and use of verbs; but as these lectures are not
designed for a system of grammar to be taught, but to expose the errors of existing systems,
and prepare the way for a more rational and consistent exposition of language, I shall leave
this department of our subject, presuming you will be able to comprehend our views, and appreciate
their importance. We have been somewhat critical in a part of our remarks, and more brief than
we should have been, had we not found that we were claiming too much of the time of the Institute,
which is designed as a means of improvement on general subjects. Enough has been said, I am
sure, to convince you, if you were not convinced before, why the study of grammar is so intricate
and tedious, that it is to be accounted for from the fact that the theories by which it is
taught are false in principle, and can not be adopted in practice; and that something ought
to be done to make the study of language easy, interesting, and practical. Such a work is here
attempted; but it remains with the public to say whether these plain philosophical principles
shall be sustained, matured, perfected, and adopted in schools, or the old roundabout course
of useless and ineffectual teaching be still preserved.

We have concluded our remarks on the necessary divisions of words. Things named, defined and
described, and their actions, relations, and tendencies, have been considered under the classes
of Nouns, Adjectives, and Verbs. To these classes all words belong when properly explained;
a fact we desire you to bear constantly in mind in all your attempts to understand and employ
language. But there are many words in our language as well as most others, which are so altered
and disguised that their meaning is not easily comprehended. Of course they are difficult of
explanation. These words we have classed under the head of Contractions, a term better calculated
than any other we have seen adopted to express their character. We do not however lay any stress
on the appropriateness of this appellation, but adopt it as a temporary expedient, till these
words shall be better understood. They will then be ranked in their proper places among the
classes already noticed.

Under this head may be considered the words usually known as "adverbs, conjunctions, prepositions,
and interjections." That the etymology and meaning of these words have not been generally understood
will be conceded, I presume, on all hands. In our opinion, that is the only reason why they
have been considered under these different heads, for in numberless cases there is nothing
in their import to correspond with such distinctions. Why "an adverb expresses some quality
or circumstance respecting a verb, adjective, or other adverb;" why "a conjunction is chiefly
used to connect sentences, so as out of two to make only one sentence;" or why "prepositions
serve to connect words with one another, and show the relation between them," has never been
explained. They have been passed over with little difficulty by teachers, having been furnished
with lists of words in each "part of speech," which they require their pupils to commit to
memory, and "for ever after hold their peace" concerning them. But that these words have been
defined or explained in a way to be understood will not be pretended. In justification of such
ignorance, it is contended that such explanation is not essential to their proper and elegant
use. If such is the fact, we may easily account for the incorrect use of language, and exonerate
children from the labor of studying etymology.

But these words have meaning, and sustain a most important rank in the expression of ideas.
They are, generally, abbreviated, compounded, and so disguised that their origin and formation
are not generally known. Horne Tooke calls them "the wheels of language, the wings of Mercury."
He says "tho we might be dragged along without them, it would be with much difficulty, very
heavily and tediously." But when he undertakes to show that they were constructed for this
object, he mistakes their true character; for they were not invented for that purpose, but
were originally employed as nouns or verbs, from which they have been corrupted by use. And
he seems to admit this fact when he says,[19] "abbreviation and corruption are always busiest
with the words which are most frequently in use. Letters, like soldiers, being very apt to
desert and drop off in a long march, and especially if their passage happens to lie near the
confines of an enemy's country."

In the original construction of language a set of literary men did not get together and manufacture
a lot of words, finished thro out and exactly adapted to the expression of thought. Had that
been the case, language would doubtless have appeared in a much more regular, stiff, and formal
dress, and been deprived of many of its beautiful and lofty figures, its richest and boldest
expressions. Necessity is the mother of invention. It was not until people had ideas to communicate,
that they sought a medium for the transmission of thought from one to another; and then such
sounds and signs were adopted as would best answer their purpose. But language was not then
framed like a cotton mill, every part completed before it was set in operation. Single expressions,
sign-ificant of things, or ideas of things and actions, were first employed, in the most simple,
plain, and easy manner.[20] As the human mind advanced in knowledge, by observing the character,
relations, and differences of things, words were changed, altered, compounded, and contracted,
so as to keep pace with such advancement; just as many simple parts of a machine, operating
on perfect and distinct principles, may be combined together and form a most complicated, curious,
and powerful engine, of astonishing power, and great utility. In the adaptation of steam to
locomotives, the principles on which stationary engines operated were somewhat modified. Some
wheels, shafts, bands, screws, etc., were omitted, others of a different kind were added, till
the whole appeared in a new character, and the engine, before fixed to a spot, was seen traversing
the road with immense rapidity. The principles of the former engine, so far from being unessential,
were indispensable to the construction of the new one, and should be clearly understood by
him who would build or use the latter. So, in the formation of language, simple first principles
must be observed and traced thro all their ramifications, by those who would obtain a clear
and thoro knowledge of it, or "read and write it with propriety."

In mathematics, the four simple rules, addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division,
form the basis on which that interesting science depends. The modifications of these rules,
according to their various capabilities, will give a complete knowledge of all that can be
known of numbers, relations, and proportions, an acme to which all may aspire, tho none have
yet attained it. The principles of language are equally simple, and, if correctly explained,
may be as well understood. But the difficulty under which we labor in this department of science,
is the paucity of means to trace back to their original form and meaning many words and phrases
in common use among us. Language has been employed as the vehicle of thought, for six thousand
years, and in that long space has undergone many and strange modifications. At the dispersion
from Babel, and the "confusion of tongues" occasioned thereby, people were thrown upon their
own resources, and left to pick up by piecemeal such shreds as should afterwards be wove into
a system, and adopted by their respective nations. Wars, pestilence, and famine, as well as
commerce, enterprize, literature, and religion, brought the different nations into intercourse
with each other; and changes were thus produced in the languages of such people. Whoever will
take the trouble to compare the idioms of speech adopted by those nations whose affairs, civil,
political, and religious, are most intimately allied, will be convinced of the correctness
of the sentiment now advanced.

In the lapse of ages, words would not only change their form, but in a measure their meaning,
so as to correspond with the ideas of those who use them. Some would become obsolete, and others
be adopted in their stead. Many words are found in the Bible which are not in common use; and
the manner of spelling, as well as some entire words, have been changed in that book, since
it was translated and first published in 1610. With these examples you are familiar, and I
shall be spared the necessity of quoting them. I have already made some extracts from old writers,
and may have occasion to do so again before I close this lecture.

The words which we class under the head of Contractions, are so altered and disguised in their
appearance, that their etymology and connexion are not generally understood. It may appear
like pedantry in me to attempt an investigation into their origin and meaning. But to avoid
that charge, I will frankly acknowledge the truth, and own my inability to do justice to this
subject, by offering a full explanation of all the words which belong to this class. I will
be candid, if I am not successful. But I think most of the words long considered difficult,
may be easily explained; enough to convince you of the feasibility of the ground we have assumed,
and furnish a sample by which to pursue the subject in all our future inquiries into the etymology
of words.

But even if I fail in this matter, I shall have one comfort left, that I am not alone in the
transgression; for no philologist, with few exceptions, has done any thing like justice to
this subject. Our common grammars have not even attempted an inquiry into the meaning of these
words, but have treated them as tho they had none. Classes, like pens or reservoirs, are made
for them, into which they are thrown, and allowed to rest, only to be named, without being
disturbed. Sometimes, however, they are found in one enclosure, sometimes in another, more
by mistake, I apprehend, than by intention; for "prepositions" under certain circumstances
are parsed as "adverbs," and "adverbs" as "adjectives," and "conjunctions" as either "adverbs"
or "prepositions;" and not unfrequently the whole go off together, like the tail of the dragon,
drawing other respectable words along with them, under the sweeping cognomen of "adverbial
phrases," or "conjunctive expressions;" as, Can you write your lesson? Not yet quite well enough.
"But and if that evil servant,"[21] etc. Mr. Murray says, "the same word is occasionally used
both as a conjunction and as an adverb, and sometimes as a preposition.

Let these words be correctly defined, their meaning be ferreted out from the rubbish in which
they have been enclosed; or have their dismembered parts restored to them, they will then appear
in their true character, and their connexion with other words will be found regular and easy.
Until such work is accomplished, they may as well be called contractions, for such they mostly
are, as adverbs or any thing else; for that appellation we regard as more appropriate than
any other.

In the attempts we are about to make, we shall endeavor to be guided by sound philosophic principles
and the light of patient investigation; and whatever advances we may make shall be in strict
accordance with the true and practical use of these words.

Let us begin with Adverbs.

I have not time to go into a thoro investigation of the mistakes into which grammarians have
fallen in their attempts to explain this "part of speech." Mr. Murray says they "seem originally
to have been contrived to express compendiously in one word, what must otherwise have required
two or more; as, "he acted wisely." They could have been "contrived" for no such purpose, for
we have already seen that they are made up of various words combined together, which are used
to express relation, to define or describe other things. Take the very example Mr. M. has given.
Wisely is made up of two words; wise and like. "He acted wisely," wise-like. What did he act?
Wisely, we are taught, expresses the "manner or quality" of the verb act. But act, in this
case, is a neuter or intransitive verb, and wisely expresses the manner of action where there
is none! But he must have acted something which was wise like something else. What did he act?
If he produced no actions, how can it be known that he acted wisely or unwisely? Action or
acts is the direct object of to act. Hence the sentence fully stated would stand thus: "He
acted acts or actions like wise actions or acts." But stated at length, it appears aukward
and clumsy, like old fashioned vehicles. We have modified, improved, cut down, and made eliptical,
all of our expressions, as we have previously observed, to suit the fashions and customs of
the age in which we live; the same as tailors cut our garments to correspond with the latest
fashions.

"The bird sings sweetly." The bird sings songs, notes, or tunes, like sweet notes, tunes, or
songs. The comparison here made, is not in reference to the agent or action, but the object
of the action; and this explains the whole theory of those adverbs, which are said to "qualify
manner" of action. We have already seen that no action, as such, can exist, or be conceived
to exist, separate(-ed) from the thing or agent which acts; and such action can only be determined
by the changed or altered condition of something which is the object of such action. How then,
can any word, in truth, or in thought, be known to qualify the action, as distinct from the
object or agent? And if it does not in fact, how can we explain words to children, or to our
own minds, so as to understand what is not true?

Hence all words of this character are adjectives, describing one thing by its relation or likeness
to another, and as such, admit of comparison; as, a likely man, a very likely man, a likelier,
and the likeliest man. "He is the most likely pedlar I ever knew." "He is more liable to be
deceived." "A lively little fellow." "He is worthless." He is worth less, less worthy of respect
and confidence. "He writes very correctly." He writes his letters and words like very correct
letters. But I need not enlarge. You have only to bear in mind the fact, that ly is a contraction
of like, which is often retained in many words; as godlike, christianlike, etc., and search
for a definition accordingly; and you will find no trouble in disposing of a large portion
of this adverb family.

It is a curious fact, and should be maturely considered by all who still adhere to the neuter
verb theory, that adverbs qualify neuter as well as active verbs, and express the quality or
manner of action, where there is none! Adverbs express "manner of action" in a neuter verb!
When a person starts wrong it is very difficult to go right. The safest course is to return
back and start again.

Adverbs have been divided into classes, varying from eleven to seventy-two, to suit the fancies
of those who have only observed the nice shades of form which these words have assumed. But
a bonnet is a bonnet, let its shape, form, or fashion, be what it may. You may put on as many
trimmings, flowers, bows, and ribbons, as you please; it is a bonnet still; and when we speak
of it we will call it a bonnet, and talk about its appendages. But when it is constructed into
something else, then we will give it a new name.

Adjectives, we have said, are derived from either nouns or verbs, and we now contend that the
words formerly regarded as adverbs are either adjectives, nouns, or verbs. In defence of this
sentiment we will adduce a few words in this place for examples.

=Ago.= "Three years ago, we dwelt in the country." This word is a past participle from the
verb ago, meaning the same as gone or agone, and was so used a few centuries ago--agone, or
gone by.

    "For euer the latter ende of ioye is wo,
    God wotte, worldly ioye is soone ago."
                              Chaucer.

    "For if it erst was well, tho was it bet
    A thousand folde, this nedeth it not require
    Ago was euery sorowe and euery fere."
                              Troylus, boke 3, p. 2.

    "Of such examples as I finde
    Upon this point of tyme agone
    I thinke for to tellen one."
                              Gower, lib. 5, p. 1.

    "Which is no more than has been done
    By knights for ladies, long agone."
                              Hudibras.

    "Twenty years agone."
                              Tillotson's sermon.

    "Are all the go."
                              Knickerbocker.

=Astray.= "They went astray." Astrayed, wandered or were scattered, and of course soon became
estranged from each other. Farmers all know what it is for cattle to stray from home; and many
parents have felt the keen pangs of sorrow when their sons strayed from the paths of virtue.
In that condition they are astray-ed.

    "This prest was drank and goth astrayede."

    "Achab to the bottle went.
    When Benedad for all his shelde
    Him slough, so that upon the felde
    His people goth aboute astraie."
                              Gower.

=Awake.= "He is awake." "Samson awaked out of his sleep." "That I may awake him out of sleep."
"It is high time to awake." "As a man that is wakened out of sleep." The Irish hold a wake--they
do not sleep the night after the loss of friends.

=Asleep.=

    "When that pyte, which longe on sleep doth tary
    Hath set the fyne of al my heuynesse."
                              Chaucer, La belle dame, p. 1. c. 1.

    "Ful sound on sleep did caucht thare rest be kind."
                              Douglas, b. 9, p. 283.

"In these provynces the fayth of Chryste was all quenchyd and in sleepe."--Fabian.

A numerous portion of these contractions are nouns, which, from their frequent recurrence,
are used without their usual connexion with small words. The letter a is compounded with many
of these words, which may have been joined to them by habit, or as a preposition, meaning on,
to, at, in, as it is used in the french and some other languages. You often hear expressions
like these, "he is a-going; he is a-writing; he began a-new," etc. The old adverbs which take
this letter, you can easily analyze; as, "The house is a-fire"--on fire; "He fell a-sleep"--he
fell on sleep. "When deep sleep falleth on men."--Job. "He stept a-side"--on one side. "He
came a-board"--on board. "They put it a-foot"--on foot. "He went a-way"--a way, followed some
course, to a distance. "Blue bonnets are all the go now a-days," etc.

The following extracts will give you an idea of the etymology of these words:

    "Turnus seyes the Troianis in grete yre,
    And al thare schyppis and navy set in fire."
                              Douglas, b. 9, p. 274.

    "Now hand in hand the dynt lichtis with ane swak,
    Now bendis he up his bourdon with ane mynt,
    On side (a-side) he bradis for to eschew the dynt."
                              Idem.

    "That easter fire and flame aboute
    Both at mouth and at nase
    So that thei setten all on blaze," (ablaze.)
                              Gower.

    "And tyl a wicked deth him take
    Him had leuer asondre (a-sunder) shake
    And let al his lymmes asondre ryue
    Thane leaue his richesse in his lyue."
                              Chaucer.

Examples of this kind might be multiplied to an indefinite length. But the above will suffice
to give you an idea of the former use of these words, and also, by comparison with the present,
of the changes which have taken place in the method of spelling within a few centuries.

A large portion of adverbs relate to time and place, because many of our ideas, and much of
our language, are employed in reference to them; as, then, when, where, there, here, hence,
whence, thence, while, till, whether, etc. These are compound words considerably disguised
in their meaning and formation. Let us briefly notice some of them.

Per annum is a latin phrase, for the year, a year; and the annum is the year, round or period
of time, from which it was corrupted gradually into its present shape. Thanne, tha anne, thane,
thenne, then, than, are different forms of the same word.

"We see nowe bi a mirror in darcnesse: thanne forsathe, face to face. Nowe I know of partye;
thanne forsathe schal know as I am knowen."--1. Cor. 13: 12. Translation in 1350.

I have a translation of the same passage in 1586, which stands thus: "For nowe we see through
a glasse darkley: but thene face to face: now I know in part: but then shal I know even as
I am knowen." Here several words are spelled differently in the same verse.

=Then=, the anne, that time. =When=, wha anne, "wha-icht-anne," which, or what anne, period
of time.

Area means an open space, a plat of ground, a spot or place. Arena is from the same etymon,
altered in application. =There=, the area, the place or spot. "If we go there," to that place.
=Where=, which, or what ("wha-icht area") place. =Here=, his (latin word for this,) area, this
place. These words refer to place, state, or condition.

While is another spelling for wheel. "To while away our time," is to pass, spend, or wheel
it away. While applies to the period, or space of time, in which something wheels, whirls,
turns round, or transpires; as, "You had better remain here while (during the time) he examines
whether it is prudent for you to go."

=Till= is to while, to the period at which something is expected to follow. "If I will that
he tarry till (to the time) I come what is that to thee?"

The idea of time and place are often blended together. It is not uncommon to hear lads and
professed scholars, in some parts of our country say "down till the bottom, over till the woods."
etc. Altho we do not regard such expressions correct, yet they serve to explain the meaning
of the word. The only mistake is in applying it to place instead of time.

=Whether= is which either. "Shew whether of these two thou hast chosen."--Acts 1: 24. It is
more frequently applied in modern times to circumstance and events than to persons and things.
"I will let you know whether I will or will not adopt it," one or the other.

=Together= signifies two or more united. Gethered is the past participle of gather.

    "As Mailie, an' her lambs thegither,
    Were ae day nibbling on the tether."
                              Burns.

=Ever= means time, age, period. It originally and essentially signified life. For ever is for
the age or period. For ever and ever, to the ages of ages. Ever-lasting is age-lasting. Ever-lasting
hills, snows, landmarks, etc.

=Never=, ne-ever, not ever, at no time, age or period.

=When-ever.=--At what point or space of time or age.

=What-ever.=--What thing, fact, circumstance, or event.

=Where-ever.=--To, at, or in what place, period, age, or time.

=Whither-so-ever=, which-way-so-ever, where-so-ever, never-the-less, etc. need only be analyzed,
and their meaning will appear obvious to all.

=Oft=, often, oft-times, often-times, can be understood by all, because the noun to which they
belong is oft-en retained in practice.

=Once=, twice, at one time, two times.

=Hence=, thence, whence, from this, that, or what, place, spot, circumstance, post, or starting
place.

=Hence-for-ward=, hence-forth, in time to come, after this period.

=Here-after=, after this era, or present time.

=Hither=, to this spot or place. Thither, to that place. Hither-to, hither-ward, etc. the same
as to you ward, or to God ward, still retained in our bibles.

=Per-haps=, it may hap. Perchance, peradventure, by chance, by adventure. The latin per means by.

=Not=, no ought, not any, nothing. It is a compound of ne and ought or aught.

=Or= is a contraction from other, and nor from ne-or, no-or, no other.

=No-wise=, no ways. I will go, or, other-wise, in another way or manner, you must go.

=Than=, the ane, the one, that one, alluding to a particular object with which a comparison
is made; as, This book is larger than that bible. That one bible, this book is larger. It is
always used with the comparative degree, to define particularly the object with which the comparison
is made. Talent is better than flattery. Than flattery, often bestowed regardless of merit,
talent is better.

=As= is an adjective, in extensive use. It means the, this, that, these, the same, etc. It
is a defining word of the first kind. You practice as you have been taught--the same duties
or principles understood. We use language as we have learned it; in the same way or manner.
It is often associated with other words to particularly specify the way, manner, or degree,
in which something is done or compared. I can go as well as you. In the same well, easy, convenient
way or manner you can go, I can go in the same way. He was as learned, as pious, as benevolent,
as brave, as faithful, as ardent. These are purely adjectives, used to denote the degree of
the likeness or similarity between the things compared. Secondary words are often added to
this, to aid the distinction or definition; as, (the same illustrated,) He is just as willing.
I am quite as well pleased without it. As, like many other adjectives, often occurs without
a noun expressed, in which case it was formerly parsed by Murray himself as (like, or the same)
a relative pronoun; as, "And indeed it seldom at any period extends to the tip, as happens
in acute diseases."--Dr. Sweetster. "The ground I have assumed is tenable, as will appear."--Webster.
"Bonaparte had a special motive in decorating Paris, for 'Paris is France, as has often been
observed."--Channing. "The words are such as seem."--Murray's Reader! p. 16, intro.

=So= has nearly the same signification as the word last noticed, and is frequently used along
with it, to define the other member of the comparison. As far as I can understand, so far I
approve. As he directed, so I obeyed. It very often occurs as a secondary adjective; as, "In
pious and benevolent offices so simple, so minute, so steady, so habitual, that they will carry,"
etc. "He pursued a course so unvarying."--Channing.

These words are the most important of any small ones in our vocabulary, because (for this cause,
be this the cause, this is the cause) they are the most frequently used; and yet there are
no words so little understood, or so much abused by grammarians, as these are.

We have barely time to notice the remaining parts of speech. Mr. Harris gives about forty "species."
Murray admits of only the dis-junctive and copulative, and reduces the whole list of words
to twenty-four. But what is meant by a dis-junctive con-junctive word, is left for you to determine.
It must be in keeping with indefinite defining articles, and post-positive pre-positions. He
says, "it joins words, but disjoins the sense."[22] And what is a word with out sense," pray
tell us? If "words are the signs of ideas," how, in the name of reason, can you give the sign
and separate the sense? You can as well separate the shadow from the substance, or a quality
from matter.

We have already noticed Rule 18, which teaches the use of conjunctions. Under that rule, you
may examine these examples. "As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be."--Common
Prayer. "What I do, have done, or may hereafter do, has been, and will always be matter of
inclination, the gratifying of which pays itself: and I have no more merit in employing my
time and money in the way I am known to do, than another has in other occupations."--Howard.

The following examples must suffice.

=If.= This word is derived from the saxon gifan, and was formerly written giff, gyff, gif,
geve, give, yiff, yef, yeve. It signifies give, grant, allow, suppose, admit, and is always
a verb in the imperative mood, having the following sentence or idea for its object. "If a
pound of sugar cost ten cents, what will ten pounds cost?" Give, grant, allow, suppose, (the
fact,) one pound cost, etc. In this case the supposition which stands as a predicate--one pound
of sugar cost ten cents, is the object of if--the thing to be allowed, supposed, or granted,
and from which the conclusion as to the cost of ten pounds is to be drawn.

"He will assist us if he has the means." Allow, admit, (the fact,) he has the means, he will
assist us.

    "Gif luf be vertew, than is it leful thing;
    Gif it be vice, it is your undoing."
                              Douglas p. 95.

    "Ne I ne wol non reherce, yef that I may."
                              Chaucer.

    "She was so charitable and so pytous
    She wolde wepe yf that she sawe a mous
    Caught in a trappe, if it were deed or bledde."
                              Prioresse.

    "O haste and come to my master dear."

    "Gin ye be Barbara Allen."
                              Burns.

=But.= This word has two opposite significations. It is derived from two different radicals.
But, from the saxon be and utan, out, means be out, leave out, save, except, omit, as, "all
but one are here." Leave out, except, one, all are here.

    "Heaven from all creation hides the book of fate
    All but (save, except) the page prescribed our present state."

    "When nought but (leave out) the torrent is heard on the hill,
    And nought but (save) the nightingale's song in the grove."

"Nothing but fear restrains him." In these cases the direct objects of the verb, the things
to be omitted are expressed.

But is also derived from botan, which signifies to add, superadd, join or unite; as, in the
old form of a deed, "it is butted and bounded as follows." Two animals butt their heads together.
The butt of a log is that end which was joined to the stump. A butt, butment or a-butment is
the joined end, where there is a connexion with something else. A butt of ridicule is an object
to which ridicule is attached.

    "Not only saw he all that was,
    But (add) much that never came to pass."
                              M'Fingal.

To button, butt-on, is derived from the same word, to join one side to the other, to fasten
together. It was formerly spelled botan, boote, bote, bot, butte, bute, but. It is still spelled
boot in certain cases as a verb; as,

    "What boots it thee to fly from pole to pole,
    Hang o'er the earth, and with the planets roll?
    What boots ( ) thro space's fartherest bourns to roam,
    If thou, O man, a stranger art at home?"
                              Grainger.

    "If love had booted care or cost."

A man exchanged his house in the city for a farm, and received fifty dollars to boot; to add
to his property, and make the exchange equal.

Let presents the same construction in form and meaning as but, for it is derived from two radicals
of opposite significations. It means sometimes to permit or allow; as, let me go; let me have
it; and to hinder or prevent; as, "I proposed to come unto you, but (add this fact) I was let
hitherto."--Rom. 1: 13. "He who now letteth, will let until he be taken out of the way."--2
Thess. 2: 7.

=And= is a past participle signifying added, one-ed, joined. It was formerly placed after the
words; as, "James, John, David, and, (united to-gether-ed,) go to school." We now place it
before the last word.

=Tho=, altho, yet. "Tho (admit, allow, the fact) he slay me, yet (get, have, know, the fact)
I will trust in him." Yes is from the same word as yet. It means get or have my consent to
the question asked. Nay is the opposite of yes, ne-aye, nay, no. The ayes and noes were called for.

I can pursue this matter no farther. The limits assigned me have been overrun already. What
light may have been afforded you in relation to these words, will enable you to discover that
they have meaning which must be learned before they can be explained correctly; that done,
all difficulty is removed.

Interjections deserve no attention. They form no part of language, but may be used by beasts
and birds as well as by men. They are indistinct utterances of emotions, which come not within
the range of human speech.

FOOTNOTES:

[1]  The reader is referred to "The Red Book," by William Bearcroft,
     revised by Daniel H. Barnes, late of the New-York High School, as a
     correct system of teaching practical orthography.

[2]  Gall, Spurzheim, and Combe, have reflected a light upon the science
     of the mind, which cannot fail of beneficial results. Tho the
     doctrines of phrenology, as now taught, may prove false--which is
     quite doubtful--or receive extensive modifications, yet the
     consequences to the philosophy of the mind will be vastly useful.
     The very terms employed to express the faculties and affections of
     the mind, are so definite and clear, that phrenology will long
     deserve peculiar regard, if for no other reason than for the
     introduction of a vocabulary, from which may be selected words for
     the communication of ideas upon intellectual subjects.

[3]  Metaphysics originally signified the science of the causes and
     principles of all things. Afterwards it was confined to the
     philosophy of the mind. In our times it has obtained still another
     meaning. Metaphysicians became so abstruse, bewildered, and lost,
     that nobody could understand them; and hence, metaphysical is now
     applied to whatever is abstruse, doubtful, and unintelligible. If a
     speaker is not understood, it is because he is too metaphysical.
     "How did you like the sermon, yesterday?" "Tolerably well; but he
     was too metaphysical for common hearers." They could not understand
     him.

[4]  In this respect, many foreign languages possess a great advantage
     over ours. They can augment or diminish the same word to increase
     or lessen the meaning. For instance; in the Spanish, we can say
     Hombre, a man; Hombron, a large man; Hombrecito, a young
     man, or youth; Hombrecillo, a miserable little man; Pagaro, a
     bird; Pagarito, a pretty little bird; Perro, a dog;
     Perrillo, an ugly little dog; Perrazo, a large dog.

     The Indian languages admit of diminutives in a similar way. In the
     Delaware dialect, they are formed by the suffix tit, in the class
     of animate nouns; but by es, to the inanimate; as, Senno, a
     man; Sennotit, a little man; Wikwam, a house; Wikwames, a
     small house.--Enc. Amer. Art. Indian Languages, vol. 6, p. 586.

[5]  Mr. Harris, in his "Hermes," says, "A preposition is a part of
     speech, devoid itself of signification; but so formed as to unite
     two words that are significant, and that refuse to coalesce or
     unite themselves."

     Mr. Murray says, "Prepositions serve to connect words with one
     another, and show the relation between them."

[6]  "Me thou shalt use in what thou wilt, and doe that with a slender
     twist, that none can doe with a tough with."
                                   Euphues and his England, p. 136.

     "They had arms under the straw in the boats, and had cut the
     withes that held the oars of the town boats, to prevent any
     pursuit."
                                   Ludlow's Memoirs, p. 435.

     "The only furniture belonging to the houses, appears to be an
     oblong vessel made of bark, by tying up the ends with a withe."
                                   Cooke's Description of Botany Bay.

[7]  See Galatians, chap. 1, verse 15. "When it pleased God, who
     separated me," &c.

[8]  Acts, xvii, 28.

[9]  St. Pierre's Studies of Nature.--Dr. Hunter's translation, pp.
     172-176.

[10] It is reported on very good authority that the same olive trees
     are now standing in the garden of Gethsemane under which the
     Saviour wept and near which he was betrayed. This is rendered more
     probable from the fact, that a tax is laid, by the Ottoman Porte,
     on all olive trees planted since Palestine passed into the
     possession of the Turks, and that several trees standing in
     Gethsemane do not pay such tribute, while all others do.

[11] We do not assent to the notions of ancient philosophers and poets,
     who believed the doctrine that the world is animated by a soul,
     like the human body, which is the spirit of Deity himself; but that
     by the operation of wise and perfect laws, he exerts a supervision
     in the creation and preservation of all things animate and
     inanimate. Virgil stated the opinions of his times, in his Æneid,
     B. VI. l. 724.

         "Know, first, that heaven, and earth's compacted frame,
         And flowing waters, and the starry flame,
         And both the radiant lights, one common soul
         Inspires and feeds--and animates the whole.
         This active mind, infused thro all the space,
         Unites and mingles with the mighty mass."
                                    Dryden, b. VI. l. 980.

     This sentiment, he probably borrowed from Pythagoras and Plato, who
     argue the same sentiment, and divide this spirit into
     "intellectus, intelligentia, et natura"--intellectual,
     intelligent, and natural. Whence, "Ex hoc Deo, qui est mundi
     anima: quasi decerptæ particulæ sunt vitæ hominum et pecudum." Or,
     "Omnia animalia ex quatuor elementis et divino spiritu constare
     manifestum est. Trahunt enim a terra carnem, ab aqua humorem, ab
     ære anhelitum, ab igne fervorem, a divino spiritu
     ingenium."--Timeus, chap. 24, and Virgil's Geor. b. 4, l. 220,
     Dryden's trans. l. 322.

     Pope alludes to the same opinion in these lines:

         "All are but parts of one stupendous whole.
         Whose body nature is, and God the soul."

[12] Page 41.

[13] Exodus, iii. 2, 3.

[14] Cardell's grammar.

[15] The Jews long preserved this name in Samaritan letters to keep it
     from being known to strangers. The modern Jews affirm that by this
     mysterious name, engraven on his rod, Moses performed the wonders
     recorded of him; that Jesus stole the name from the temple and put
     it into his thigh between the flesh and skin, and by its power
     accomplished the miracles attributed to him. They think if they
     could pronounce the word correctly, the very heavens and earth
     would tremble, and angels be filled with terror.

[16] Plutarch says, "This title is not only proper but peculiar to
     God, because =He= alone is being; for mortals have no
     participation of true being, because that which begins and
     ends, and is constantly changing, is never one nor the
     same, nor in the same state. The deity on whose temple this word
     was inscribed was called =Apollo=, Apollon, from a negative and
     pollus, many, because God is =one=, his nature simple, and
     uncompounded."--Vide, Clark's Com.

[17] The same fact may be observed in other languages, for all people
     form language alike, in a way to correspond with their ideas. The
     following hasty examples will illustrate this point.

                Agent.         Verb.        Object.
     English  Singers          Sing           Songs
     French   Les chanteurs    Chantent       Les chansons
     Spanish  Los cantores     Cantan         Las cantinelas
     Italian  I cantori        Cantano        I canti
     Latin    Cantores         Canunt         Cantus

     English  Givers           Give           Gifts
     French   Les donneurs     Donnent        Les dons
     Spanish  Los donadores    Dan o donan    Los dones
     Italian  I danatori       Dano o danano  I doni
     Latin    Datores          Donant         Dona

     English  Fishers          Fish           Fishes
     French   Les pecheurs     Pechent        Les poissons
     Spanish  Los pescadores   Pescan         Los peces
     Italian  I pescatori      Pescan         I pesci
     Latin    Piscatores       Piscantur      Pisces

     English  Students         Study          Studies
     French   Les etudiens     Etudient       Les etudes
     Spanish  Los estudiantes  Estudian       Los estudios
     Italian  I studienti      Studiano       I studii
     Latin    Studiosi         Student        Studia

[18] Mr. Murray says, "These compounds," have, shall, will,
     may, can, must, had, might, could, would, and
     should, which he uses as auxiliaries to help conjugate other
     verbs, "are, however, to be considered as different forms of the
     same verb." I should like to know, if these words have any thing
     to do with the principal verbs; if they only alter the form of
     the verb which follows them. I may, can, must, shall,
     will, or do love. Are these only different forms of love? or
     rather, are they not distinct, important, and original verbs, pure
     and perfect in and of themselves? Ask for their etymons and
     meaning, and then decide.

[19] Diversions of Purley, vol. 1, p. 77.

[20] Dr. Edwards observes, in a communication to the Connecticut Society
     of Arts and Sciences, from personal knowledge, that "the Mohegans
     (Indians) have no adjectives in all their language. Altho it may
     at first seem not only singular and curious, but impossible, that a
     language should exist without adjectives, yet it is an indubitable
     fact." But it is proved that in later times the Indians employ
     adjectives, derived from nouns or verbs, as well as other nations.
     Altho many of their dialects are copious and harmonious, yet they
     suffered no inconvenience from a want of contracted words and
     phrases. They added the ideas of definition and description to the
     things themselves, and expressed them in the same word, in a
     modified form.

[21] Matthew, chap. 24, v. 48.

[22] Examples of a dis-junctive conjunction. "They came with her,
     but they went without her."--Murray.

     Murray is wrong, and Cardell is right. The simplifiers are
     wrong, but their standard is so likewise.

     "Me he restored to my office, and him he hanged."--Pharaoh's
     Letter.

The following printer's errors have been corrected in this etext. Changes are indicated in
brackets.

Contents       ON NOUNS AMD [AND] PRONOUNS

Lecture I      process of time as ingle [a single]
               will not unfrequenly [unfrequently] represent

Lecture III    German, Danish, Dutch, Sweedish [Swedish]

Lecture V      David killed Goliah [Goliath]

Lecture VI     and cosinder [consider] them in this place

Lecture VII    We are told there are are [are] two articles
               the mother is mascu.line [masculine]
               dress handkerchief.["] The resolution

Lecture VIII   object will be to ascertion [ascertain]
               ["]But wherefore sits he there?
               act transitively, acording [according] to

Lecture IX     the pocket of Guy Fawks [Fawkes]
               For we should rember [remember]
               looks like or resembles his brother,["]

Lecture X      A philosophical axiom[.]--Manner
               And our languge [language] should
               ["]I have addressed this volume

Lecture XI     Be not surprized [surprised] when I tell you

Lecture XII    the qualifification [qualification] of an adverb,
               --"express neither actionn [action] or passion."

Lecture XIV    trace back to their orignal [original] form
               ["]He stept a-side"
               ["]As Mailie, an' her lambs
               ["]Not only saw he all that was,

Footnote 22    Murray is wroug [wrong]

