What the profits were I never knew, for they were invested in the second of our publications.
Still jealously keeping the authorship secret, we published a long comic ballad which I had
written on the model of Bab. With this we determined to launch out in style, and so we had
gorgeous advertisement posters printed in three colours, which were to be stuck about London
to beautify that great dreary city. Y. saw the back-hair of Fortune almost within our grasp.

One morning our headmaster walked into my room with a portentously solemn air. I felt instinctively
that the murder was out. But he only said "Where is Y.?" though the mere coupling of our names
was ominous, for our publishing partnership was unknown. I replied, "How should I know? In
his room, I suppose."

He gave me a peculiar sceptical glance.

"When did you last see Y.?" he said.

"Yesterday afternoon," I replied wonderingly.

"And you don't know where he is now?"

"Haven't an idea--isn't he in school?"

"No," he replied in low, awful tones.

"Where then?" I murmured.

"In prison!"

"In prison," I gasped.

"In prison; I have just been to help bail him out."

It transpired that Y. had suddenly been taken with a further happy thought. Contemplation of
those gorgeous tricoloured posters had turned his brain, and, armed with an amateur paste-pot
and a ladder, he had sallied forth at midnight to stick them about the silent streets, so as
to cut down the publishing expenses. A policeman, observing him at work, had told him to get
down, and Y., being legal-minded, had argued it out with the policeman de haut en bas from
the top of his ladder. The outraged majesty of the law thereupon haled Y. off to the cells.

Naturally the cat was now out of the bag, and the fat in the fire.

To explain away the poster was beyond the ingenuity of even a professed fiction-monger.

Straightway the committee of the school was summoned in hot haste, and held debate upon the
scandal of a pupil-teacher being guilty of originality. And one dread afternoon, when all Nature
seemed to hold its breath, I was called down to interview a member of the committee. In his
hand were copies of the obnoxious publications.

I approached the great person with beating heart. He had been kind to me in the past, singling
me out, on account of some scholastic successes, for an annual vacation at the seaside. It
has only just struck me, after all these years, that, if he had not done so, I should not have
found the page of Society, and so not have perpetrated the deplorable compositions.

In the course of a bad quarter of an hour, he told me that the ballad was tolerable, though
not to be endured; he admitted the metre was perfect, and there wasn't a single false rhyme.
But the prose novelette was disgusting. "It is such stuff," said he, "as little boys scribble
up on walls."

I said I could not see anything objectionable in it.

"Come now, confess you are ashamed of it," he urged. "You only wrote it to make money."

"If you mean that I deliberately wrote low stuff to make money," I replied calmly, "it is untrue.
There is nothing I am ashamed of. What you object to is simply realism." I pointed out Bret
Harte had been as realistic, but they did not understand literature on that committee.

"Confess you are ashamed of yourself," he reiterated, "and we will look over it."

"I am not," I persisted, though I foresaw only too clearly that my summer's vacation was doomed
if I told the truth. "What is the use of saying I am?"

The headmaster uplifted his hands in horror. "How, after all your kindness to him, he can contradict
you----!" he cried.

"When I come to be your age," I conceded to the member of the committee, "it is possible I
may look back on it with shame. At present I feel none."

In the end I was given the alternative of expulsion or of publishing nothing which had not
passed the censorship of the committee. After considerable hesitation I chose the latter.

This was a blessing in disguise; for, as I have never been able to endure the slightest arbitrary
interference with my work, I simply abstained from publishing. Thus, although I still wrote--mainly
sentimental verses--my nocturnal studies were less interrupted. Not till I had graduated, and
was of age, did I return to my inky vomit. Then came my next first book--a real book at last.

In this also I had the collaboration of a fellow-teacher, Louis Cowen by name. This time my
colleague was part-author. It was only gradually that I had been admitted to the privilege
of communion with him, for he was my senior by five or six years, and a man of brilliant parts
who had already won his spurs in journalism, and who enjoyed deservedly the reputation of an
Admirable Crichton. What drew me to him was his mordant wit (to-day, alas! wasted on anonymous
journalism! If he would only reconsider his indetermination, the reading public would be the
richer!) Together we planned plays, novels, treatises on political economy, and contributions
to philosophy. Those were the days of dreams.

One afternoon he came to me with quivering sides, and told me that an idea for a little shilling
book had occurred to him. It was that a Radical Prime Minister and a Conservative working man
should change into each other by supernatural means, and the working man be confronted with
the problem of governing, while the Prime Minister should be as comically out of place in the
East End environment. He thought it would make a funny "Arabian Nights" sort of burlesque.
And so it would have done; but, unfortunately, I saw subtler possibilities of political satire
in it. I insisted the story must be real, not supernatural, the Prime Minister must be a Tory,
weary of office, and it must be an ultra-Radical atheistic artisan bearing a marvellous resemblance
to him who directs (and with complete success) the Conservative Administration. To add to the
mischief, owing to my collaborator's evenings being largely taken up by other work, seven-eighths
of the book came to be written by me, though the leading ideas were, of course, threshed out
and the whole revised in common, and thus it became a vent-hole for all the ferment of a youth
of twenty-one, whose literary faculty had furthermore been pent up for years by the potential
censorship of a committee. The book, instead of being a shilling skit, grew to a ten-and-sixpenny
(for that was the unfortunate price of publication) political treatise of over sixty long chapters
and 500 closely-printed pages. I drew all the characters as seriously and complexly as if the
fundamental conception were a matter of history; the out-going Premier became an elaborate
study of a nineteenth century Hamlet; the Bethnal Green life amid which he came to live was
presented with photographic fulness and my old trick of realism; the governmental manoeuvres
were described with infinite detail; numerous real personages were introduced under nominal
disguises, and subsequent history was curiously anticipated in some of the Female Franchise
and Home Rule episodes. Worst of all, so super-subtle was the satire, that it was never actually
stated straight out that the Premier had changed places with the Radical working man, so that
the door might be left open for satirically suggested alternative explanations of the metamorphosis
in their characters; and as, moreover, the two men re-assumed their original rôles for one
night only with infinitely complex effects, many readers, otherwise unimpeachable, reached
the end without any suspicion of the actual plot--and yet (on their own confession) enjoyed
the book!

In contrast to all this elephantine waggery the half-a-dozen chapters near the commencement,
in which my collaborator sketched the first adventures of the Radical working man in Downing
Street, were light and sparkling, and I feel sure the shilling skit he originally meditated
would have been a great success. We christened the book The Premier and the Painter, ourselves
J. Freeman Bell, had it type-written, and sent it round to the publishers in two enormous quarto
volumes. I had been working at it for more than a year every evening after the hellish torture
of the day's teaching, and all day every holiday, but now I had a good rest while it was playing
its boomerang prank of returning to me once a month. The only gleam of hope came from Bentleys,
who wrote to say that they could not make up their minds to reject it; but they prevailed upon
themselves to part with it at last, though not without asking to see Mr. Bell's next book.
At last it was accepted by Spencer Blackett, and, though it had been refused by all the best
houses, it failed. Failed in a material sense, that is; for there was plenty of praise in the
papers, though at too long intervals to do us any good. The Athenæum has never spoken so well
of anything I have done since. The late James Runciman (I learnt after his death that it was
he) raved about it in various uninfluential organs. It even called forth a leader in the Family
Herald (!), and there are odd people here and there, who know the secret of J. Freeman Bell,
who declare that I. Zangwill will never do anything so good. There was some sort of a cheap
edition, but it did not sell much, and when, some years ago, Spencer Blackett went out of business,
I acquired the copyright and the remainder copies, which are still lying about somewhere. And
not only did The Premier and the Painter fail with the great public, it did not even help either
of us one step up the ladder; never got us a letter of encouragement nor a stroke of work.
I had to begin journalism at the very bottom and entirely unassisted, narrowly escaping canvassing
for advertisements, for I had by this time thrown up my scholastic position, and had gone forth
into the world penniless and without even a "character," branded as an Atheist (because I did
not worship the Lord who presided over our committee) and a Revolutionary (because I refused
to break the law of the land).

I should stop here if I were certain I had written the required article. But as The Premier
and the Painter was not entirely my first book, I may perhaps be expected to say something
of my third first book, and the first to which I put my name--The Bachelors' Club. Years of
literary apathy succeeded the failure of The Premier and the Painter. All I did was to publish
a few serious poems (which, I hope, will survive Time), a couple of pseudonymous stories signed
"The Baroness Von S." (!), and a long philosophical essay upon religion, and to lend a hand
in the writing of a few playlets. Becoming convinced of the irresponsible mendacity of the
dramatic profession, I gave up the stage, too, vowing never to write except on commission,
and sank entirely into the slough of journalism (glad enough to get there), inter alia editing
a comic paper (not Grimaldi, but Ariel) with a heavy heart. At last the long apathy wore off,
and I resolved to cultivate literature again in my scraps of time. It is a mere accident that
I wrote a pair of "funny" books, or put serious criticism of contemporary manners into a shape
not understood in a country where only the dull are profound and only the ponderous are earnest.
The Bachelors' Club was the result of a whimsical remark made by my dear friend, Eder of Bartholomew's,
with whom I was then sharing rooms in Bernard Street, and who helped me greatly with it, and
its publication was equally accidental. One spring day, in the year of grace 1891, having lived
unsuccessfully for a score of years and seven upon this absurd planet, I crossed Fleet Street
and stepped into what is called "success." It was like this. Mr. J. T. Grein, now of the Independent
Theatre, meditated a little monthly called The Playgoers' Review, and he asked me to do an
article for the first number, on the strength of some speeches I had made at the Playgoers'
Club. When I got the proof it was marked "Please return at once to 6, Bouverie Street." My
office boy being out, and Bouverie Street being only a few steps away, I took it over myself,
and found myself, somewhat to my surprise, in the office of Henry & Co., publishers, and in
the presence of Mr. J. Hannaford Bennett, an active partner in the firm. He greeted me by name,
also to my surprise, and told me he had heard me speak at the Playgoers' Club. A little conversation
ensued, and he mentioned that his firm was going to bring out a Library of Wit and Humour.
I told him I had begun a book, avowedly humorous, and had written two chapters of it, and he
straightway came over to my office, heard me read them, and immediately secured the book. (The
then editor ultimately refused to have it in the "Whitefriars' Library of Wit and Humour,"
and so it was brought out separately.) Within three months, working in odds and ends of time,
I finished it, correcting the proofs of the first chapters while I was writing the last; indeed,
ever since the day I read those two chapters to Mr. Hannaford Bennett I have never written
a line anywhere that has not been purchased before it was written. For, to my undying astonishment,
two average editions of my real "First Book" were disposed of on the day of publication, to
say nothing of the sale in New York. Unless I had acquired a reputation of which I was totally
unconscious, it must have been the title that "fetched" the trade. Or, perhaps, it was the
illustrations by my friend, Mr. George Hutchinson, whom I am proud to have discovered as a
cartoonist for Ariel.

So here the story comes to a nice sensational climax. Re-reading it, I feel dimly that there
ought to be a moral in it somewhere for the benefit of struggling fellow-scribblers. But the
best I can find is this: That if you are blessed with some talent, a great deal of industry,
and an amount of conceit mighty enough to enable you to disregard superiors, equals and critics,
as well as the fancied demands of the public, it is possible, without friends, or introductions,
or bothering celebrities to read your manuscripts, or cultivating the camp of the log-rollers,
to attain, by dint of slaving day and night for years during the flower of your youth, to a
fame infinitely less widespread than a prize-fighter's, and a pecuniary position which you
might with far less trouble have been born to.

By the Light of the Lamp.

BY HILDA NEWMAN.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY HAL HURST.

          -----

A day in bed! Oh! the horror of it to a man who has never ailed anything in his life! A day
away from the excitement (pleasurable or otherwise) of business, the moving throng of city
streets, the anticipated chats with business friends and casual acquaintances--the world of
men. Nothing to look upon but the four walls of the room, which, in spite of its cosiness,
he only associates with dreams, nightmares, and dull memories of sleepless nights, and chilly
mornings. Nothing to listen to but the twittering of the canary downstairs, and the distant
wrangling of children in the nursery: no one to speak to but the harassed housewife, wanted
in a dozen places at once, and the pert housemaid, whose noisiness is distracting. The man
lay there, cursing his helplessness. In spite of his iron will, the unseen enemy, who had stolen
in by night, conquered, holding him down with a hundred tingling fingers when he attempted
to rise, and drawing a misty veil over his eyes when he tried to read, till at last he was
forced to resign himself, with closed eyes, and turn day into night. But the lowered blind
was a sorry substitute for the time of rest, and brought him no light, refreshing sleep, so,
in the spirit, he occupied his customary chair at the office, writing and receiving cheques,
drawing up new circulars, and ordering the clerks about in the abrupt, peremptory manner he
thought proper to adopt towards subordinates--the wife included.

He tortured himself by picturing the disorganisation of the staff in his enforced absence--for
he had grown to believe that nothing could prosper without his personal supervision, though
the head clerk had been ten years in his employ. Then he remembered an important document,
that should have been signed before, and a foreign letter, which probably awaited him, and
fretted himself into a fever of impatience and aggravation.

Just at the climax of his reflections his wife entered the room. She was a silent little woman,
with weary eyes. Perhaps her burden of household cares, and the complaints of an exacting husband,
had made her prematurely old, for there were already silver threads among the dark brown coils
of hair that were neatly twisted in a bygone fashion, though she was young enough to have had
a bright colour in her cheek, a merry light in her dark eyes, and a smile on her lips. These,
and a becoming dress, would have made her a pretty woman; but a friendless, convent girlhood,
followed by an early marriage, and unswerving obedience to the calls of a husband and family
who demanded and accepted her unceasing attention and the sacrifice of her youth, without a
word of gratitude or sympathy, had made her what she was--a plain, insignificant, faded-looking
creature, with unsatisfied yearnings, and heartaches that she did not betray, fearing to be
misunderstood or ridiculed.

She listened quietly to his complaints, and bore without reproach his mocking answers to her
offers of help. Then she softly drew up the blind, and went downstairs, returning with a daintily-spread
tray. But the tempting oysters she had had such trouble to procure were pettishly refused,
and the tray was not even allowed to be in the room. The wife sat down near the window, and
took up a little garment she was making--her face was flushed, and her lips trembled as she
stitched and folded--it seemed so hard that she could do nothing to please him, knowing, as
she did, that he considered hers an idle life, since they kept servants to do the work of the
house. He did not know of her heart-breaking attempts to keep within the limits of her weekly
allowance, with unexpected calls from the nursery, and kitchen breakages; he forgot that it
would not go so far now that there were more children to clothe and feed, and, when she gently
hinted this, he hurled the bitter taunt of extravagance at her, not dreaming that she was really
pinched for money, and stinting herself of a hundred and one things necessary to her comfort
and well-being for the sake of her family. Indeed, it was part of his theory never to yield
to requests of this kind, since they were sure to be followed by others at no distant date,
and, besides, he greatly prided himself on firmness in domestic matters.

She was very worried to-day; anxious about her husband's health, and sorely grieved at the
futility of all her efforts to interest or help him. Great tears gathered in her eyes, and
were ready to fall, but they had to be forced back, for she was called out of the room again.

And so it went on throughout the afternoon--in and out--up and down--never resting--never still--her
thoughts always with the discontented invalid, who fell asleep towards evening, after a satisfactory
meal, cooked and served by his patient helpmate, and eaten in a desultory manner, as if its
speedier consumption would imply too much appreciation of her culinary kindness.

About midnight he awoke, refreshed in body and mind, and singularly clear of brain.

His first feeling was one of intense relief, for he felt quite free from pain, and to-morrow
would find him in town, writing and scolding--in short, himself again. He sat up in bed, and
looked round. The gas was turned low, but on a little table consecrated to his wants stood
a carefully-shaded lamp. By its soft light he discovered his wife, fast asleep in the low,
wicker armchair, whose gay chintz cover contrasted strangely with her neat dark dress. She
had evidently meant to sit up all night in case he felt worse, but had succumbed from sheer
weariness, still grasping the tiny frock she had been mending. He noticed her roughened forefinger,
but excused it, when he saw the little, even stitches. Finally, he decided not to disturb her,
but, as he settled down again on the comfortable pillow, he was haunted by the image of her
pale face, and, raising himself on his elbow, looked at her again, reflectively. She was certainly
very white.

He blamed the lamplight at first, but his conscience spoke clearly in the dim silence, as he
recalled her anxiety for him, and her gentle, restless footsteps on the stairs, and, now that
he began to think of it, she had not eaten all day. He scolded her severely for it in his mind.
Was there not plenty for her if she wanted it?

But that inner self would not be silenced. "How about her idle life?" it said--"has she had
time to eat to-day?"

He could not answer.

She sighed in her sleep, and her lashes were wet as from recent tears. For the first time he
noticed the silver hairs, and the lines about her eyes, and wondered at them.

And the still, small voice pierced his heart, saying, "Whose fault is it?"

As he shut his eyes--vainly endeavouring to dismiss the unwelcome thoughts that came crowding
in upon his mind, and threatened to destroy his belief in the perfect theory he loved to expound--a
past day rose before him. He held her hand, and, looking into her timid, girlish face, said
to himself, "I can mould her to my will." Then she came to him, alone and friendless, with
no one to help hide her inexperience and nervousness.

He recalled the gentle questions he was always too busy to answer, till they troubled him no
more; and the silent reproach of her quivering lips when he blamed her for some little household
error. And, though he believed that his training had made her useful and independent, he remembered,
with a pang of remorse, many occasions on which an affectionate word of appreciation had hovered
on his tongue, and wondered what foolish pride or reserve had made him hesitate and choke it
down, when he knew what it meant to her. Birthdays, and all those little anniversaries which
stand out clearly on the calendar of a woman's heart, he had forgotten, or remembered only
when the time for wishes and kisses was over. Yet he had never reproached himself for this
before. But to-day he had seen enough to understand something of the responsibility that rested
on her, the ignorance of the servants, the healthy, clamouring children, who would only obey
her, and the hundred and one daily incidents that would have worried him into a frenzy, but
which only left her serene and patient, and anxious to do her duty. The poor wan face had grown
lovely to him, and the lines on her forehead spoke with an eloquence beyond the most passionate
appeal for sympathy that she could have uttered--what would the house be without her? What
if he were going to lose her? His heart was shaken by a terrible fear as he sat up with misty
eyes, and, brokenly uttering her name, held out his arms imploringly.

Oh! God, if she should never wake again!.... But she answered him, breathlessly, waking from
a wonderful dream, in which she saw him wandering afar through a fragrant garden, that she
longed to enter--then as she wept, despairingly hiding her face in her hands, she heard him
calling her, first softly, then louder--and louder--

And the garden faded away.

But the dawn found her sobbing out years of loneliness on her husband's breast.

               -----

III.--ONE DAY.

Eight o'clock in the morning. I am taking my tea while idly turning over the leaves of a book,
when the noise of an explosion causes me to suddenly raise my head. Explosions are not of rare
occurrence at the fortress of X----, of which the outer wall encloses several hundred barrack
rooms and places where the garrison are exercised, and I am quite accustomed to the noise of
cannon and small arms. This solitary explosion, however, seemed so close at hand, and has so
strongly shaken the prison, that, anxious to know what has happened, I rise and approach the
door and listen. A few moments of silence--then, suddenly, from somewhere in the corridor,
comes the jingle of spurs, the clash of swords, and the sound of voices. At first, all this
noise is stationary, then gradually it grows and appears to spread on all sides. Something
extraordinary has surely happened behind this heavy door, something is now happening which
causes me anxiety. But what is it? Standing on tip-toes, I try to look through the small square
of glass covering the wicket, but the outside shutter is closed, and in spite of the habit
which I and other prisoners have of finding some small aperture through which a glimpse of
the corridor may be obtained, to-day I can see nothing. Only the noise of heavy and rapid footsteps,
each moment stronger and more distinct, comes to my ears. I seem to hear in the distance the
choked and panting voice of Captain W---- asking some question, then another nearer and unknown
voice replies--"Oh! yes, killed! Killed outright!"

Killed? Who? How and why? Killed? My God! Have I heard aright? Killed! No, no; it is impossible!
Breathless, and with beating heart, I consider for a moment in order to find some pretext for
having this heavy door opened. Shall I ask to see the director--or the doctor--or say I am
thirsty and have no water? The latter is the most simple, and, my jug hastily emptied, I return
to the wicket to knock. In ordinary times the slightest blow struck on the little square of
glass brings my "blue angel," the warder. Now, I knock loudly, and again and again. The intervals
seem like an eternity, but the little shutter remains closed, while the sound of spurs, swords,
and voices cross each other in the corridor, sometimes near, then dying away into the distance.
A few moments more of anxious waiting and agony almost insupportable, then I raise my arm determined
to break the window, when a new noise from the outside causes a shudder to run through me.

Clear and sharp, the noise is that of windows broken in rapid succession; it is the signal
that the prisoners have revolted. Distant at first, the noise approaches with lightning-like
rapidity on the side of the principal building of the prison, and as it approaches it is accompanied
by cries and loud questioning. Without knowing the cause of the outbreak, I seize the first
hard object that comes to my hand, a dictionary, and with one bound I am on my table, and in
my turn break the glass of my window, the fragments of which ring gaily as they fall, some
into the court-yard, and the others on the stone floor of my cell.

As the window falls to pieces a flood of light invades my cell, and I feel the warm air, and
smell a perfume as of new-mown hay. For a moment I am blinded, suffocated, then with both hands
I seize the iron bars and draw myself up to the narrow window ledge. A confused noise of breaking
glass gradually passing away in the distance, and the cracking of wood fills the pure air of
the glorious summer morning; while on all sides are heard the voices of anxious men and women,
all asking the same questions, "What has happened? Why are we revolting?"

