Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive/American Libraries. See
      http://www.archive.org/details/fairytalesofchar00perr

THE FAIRY TALES OF CHARLES PERRAULT

Illustrated by Harry Clarke

With an Introduction by Thomas Bodkin

George G. Harrap & Co. Ltd. 2 & 3 Portsmouth Street Kingsway London. W.C.2.

First published August 1922

CONTENTS.

                                            PAGE

INTRODUCTION                                  9

LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD                       21

THE FAIRY                                    27

BLUE BEARD                                   35

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOOD              47

THE MASTER CAT; OR, PUSS IN BOOTS            67

CINDERILLA; OR, THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER     77

RIQUET WITH THE TUFT                         93

LITTLE THUMB                                109

THE RIDICULOUS WISHES                       127

DONKEY-SKIN                                 137

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                                 PAGE

CINDERILLA AND HER PRINCE                               Frontispiece

"HE ASKED HER WHITHER SHE WAS GOING"                  facing    24

"'WHAT IS THIS I SEE?' SAID HER MOTHER"                           28

"'AM I COME HITHER TO SERVE YOU WITH WATER, PRAY?'"   facing    30

"'WHAT, IS NOT THE KEY OF MY CLOSET AMONG THE REST?'"             36

"THIS MAN HAD THE MISFORTUNE TO HAVE A BLUE BEARD"    facing    38

"AT THIS VERY INSTANT THE YOUNG FAIRY CAME OUT FROM BEHIND THE HANGINGS"                  
48

THE PRINCE ENQUIRES OF THE AGED COUNTRYMAN            facing    54

"HE SAW, UPON A BED, THE FINEST SIGHT WAS EVER BEHELD"                                    
facing    56

"'I WILL HAVE IT SO,' REPLIED THE QUEEN, 'AND WILL EAT HER WITH SAUCE ROBERT'"            
59

"THE MARQUIS GAVE HIS HAND TO THE PRINCESS, AND FOLLOWED THE KING, WHO WENT UP FIRST"     
facing    74

"AWAY SHE DROVE, SCARCE ABLE TO CONTAIN HERSELF FOR JOY"          78

"ANY ONE BUT CINDERILLA WOULD HAVE DRESSED THEIR HEADS AWRY"                              
facing    80

"SHE LEFT BEHIND ONE OF HER GLASS SLIPPERS, WHICH THE PRINCE TOOK UP MOST CAREFULLY"      
87

"THE PRINCE BELIEVED HE HAD GIVEN HER MORE WITH THAN HE HAD RESERVED FOR HIMSELF"         
99

"RIQUET WITH THE TUFT APPEARED TO HER THE FINEST PRINCE UPON EARTH"                       
facing   104

"LITTLE THUMB WAS AS GOOD AS HIS WORD, AND RETURNED THAT SAME NIGHT WITH THE NEWS"        
110

"HE BROUGHT THEM HOME BY THE VERY SAME WAY THEY CAME" facing   112

"JUPITER APPEARED BEFORE HIM WIELDING HIS MIGHTY THUNDERBOLTS"                            
128

"A LONG BLACK PUDDING CAME WINDING AND WRIGGLING TOWARDS HER"                             
facing   130

"TRUTH TO TELL, THIS NEW ORNAMENT DID NOT SET OFF HER BEAUTY"                             
133

"ANOTHER GOWN THE COLOUR OF THE MOON"                            138

"HE THOUGHT THE PRINCESS WAS HIS QUEEN"                          143

"CURIOSITY MADE HIM PUT HIS EYE TO THE KEYHOLE"       facing   150

INTRODUCTION

    "Avec ardeur il aima les beaux arts."

                                   Griselidis

Charles Perrault must have been as charming a fellow as a man could meet. He was one of the
best-liked personages of his own great age, and he has remained ever since a prime favourite
of mankind. We are fortunate in knowing a great deal about his varied life, deriving our knowledge
mainly from D'Alembert's history of the French Academy and from his own memoirs, which were
written for his grandchildren, but not published till sixty-six years after his death. We should,
I think, be more fortunate still if the memoirs had not ceased in mid-career, or if their author
had permitted himself to write of his family affairs without reserve or restraint, in the approved
manner of modern autobiography. We should like, for example, to know much more than we do about
the wife and the two sons to whom he was so devoted.

Perrault was born in Paris in 1628, the fifth son of Pierre Perrault, a prosperous parliamentary
lawyer; and, at the age of nine, was sent to a day-school--the Collège de Beauvais. His father
helped him with his lessons at home, as he himself, later on, was accustomed to help his own
children. He can never have been a model schoolboy, though he was always first in his class,
and he ended his school career prematurely by quarrelling with his master and bidding him a
formal farewell.

The cause of this quarrel throws a bright light on Perraults subsequent career. He refused
to accept his teacher's philosophical tenets on the mere ground of their traditional authority.
He claimed that novelty was in itself a merit, and on this they parted. He did not go alone.
One of his friends, a boy called Beaurain, espoused his cause, and for the next three or four
years the two read together, haphazard, in the Luxembourg Gardens. This plan of study had almost
certainly a bad effect on Beaurain, for we hear no more of him. It certainly prevented Perrault
from being a thorough scholar, though it made him a man of taste, a sincere independent, and
an undaunted amateur.

In 1651 he took his degree at the University of Orléans, where degrees were given with scandalous
readiness, payment of fees being the only essential preliminary. In the mean-time he had walked
the hospitals with some vague notion of following his brother Claude into the profession of
medicine, and had played a small part as a theological controversialist in the quarrel then
raging, about the nature of grace, between the Jesuits and the Jansenists. Having abandoned
medicine and theology he got called to the Bar, practised for a while with distinct success,
and coquetted with a notion of codifying the laws of the realm. The Bar proved too arid a profession
to engage for long his attention; so he next sought and found a place in the office of another
brother, Pierre, who was Chief Commissioner of Taxes in Paris. Here Perrault had little to
do save to read at large in the excellent library which his brother had formed.

For want of further occupation he returned to the writing of verse, one of the chief pleasures
of his boyhood. His first sustained literary effort had been a parody of the sixth book of
the "Æneid"; which, perhaps fortunately for his reputation, was never published and has not
survived. Beaurain and his brother Nicholas, a doctor of the Sorbonne, assisted him in this
perpetration, and Claude made the pen-and-ink sketches with which it was illustrated. In the
few years that had elapsed since the writing of this burlesque Perrault had acquired more sense
and taste, and his new poems--in particular the "Portrait d'Iris" and the "Dialogue entre l'Amour
et l'Amitié"--were found charming by his contemporaries. They were issued anonymously, and
Quinault, himself a poet of established reputation, used some of them to forward his suit with
a young lady, allowing her to think that they were his own. Perrault, when told of Quinault's
pretensions, deemed it necessary to disclose his authorship; but, on hearing of the use to
which his work had been put, he gallantly remained in the background, forgave the fraud, and
made a friend of the culprit.

Architecture next engaged his attention, and in 1657 he designed a house at Viry for his brother
and supervised its construction. Colbert approved so much of this performance that he employed
him in the superintendence of the royal buildings and put him in special charge of Versailles,
which was then in process of erection. Perrault flung himself with ardour into this work, though
not to the exclusion of his other activities. He wrote odes in honour of the King; he planned
designs for Gobelin tapestries and decorative paintings; he became a member of the select little
Academy of Medals and Inscriptions which Colbert brought into being to devise suitable legends
for the royal palaces and monuments; he encouraged musicians and fought the cause of Lulli;
he joined with Claude in a successful effort to found the Academy of Science.

Claude Perrault had something of his brother's versatility and shared his love for architecture,
and the two now became deeply interested in the various schemes which were mooted for the completion
of the Louvre. Bernini was summoned by the King from Rome, and entrusted with the task; but
the brothers Perrault intervened. Charles conceived the idea of the great east front and communicated
it to Claude, who drew the plans and was commissioned to carry them out. The work was finished
in 1671, and is still popularly known as Perrault's Colonnade.

In the same year Charles was elected to the Academy without any personal canvas on his part
for the honour. His inaugural address was heard with such approval that he ventured to suggest
that the inauguration of future members should be a public function. The suggestion was adopted,
and these addresses became the most famous feature of the Academy's proceedings and are so
to the present day. This was not his only service to the Academy, for he carried a motion to
the effect that future elections should be by ballot; and invented and provided, at his own
expense, a ballot-box which, though he does not describe it, was probably the model of those
in use in all modern clubs and societies.

The novelty of his views did not always commend them to his brother 'Immortals.' Those expressed
in his poem "Le Siècle de Louis XIV," which he read as an Academician of sixteen years' standing,
initiated one of the most famous and lasting literary quarrels of the era. Perrault, in praising
the writers of his own age, ventured to disparage some of the great authors of the ancient
classics. Boileau lashed himself into a fury of opposition and hurled strident insults against
the heretic. Racine, more adroit, pretended to think that the poem was a piece of ingenious
irony. Most men of letters hastened to participate in the battle. No doubt Perrault's position
was untenable, but he conducted his defence with perfect temper and much wit; and Boileau made
himself not a little absurd by his violence and his obvious longing to display the extent of
his learning. Perrault's case is finally stated in his four volumes, "Le Parallèle des Anciens
et des Modernes," which were published in 1688-1696. He evidently took vastly more pride in
this dull and now almost forgotten work than in the matchless stories which have made him famous
for ever.

After twenty years in the service of Colbert, the sun of Perrault's fortunes passed its zenith.
His brother, the Commissioner of Taxes, had a dispute with the Minister and was disgraced.
Then Perrault got married to a young lady of whom we know nothing except that her marriage
was the subject of some opposition from his powerful employer. In a matter of the sort Perrault,
though a courtier, could be relied on to consider no wishes save those of his future wife and
himself. Colbert's own influence with the King became shaky, and this affected his temper.
So Perrault, then just fifty-five, slid quietly from his service in the year 1683.

Before he went, he succeeded in frustrating a project for closing the Tuileries Gardens against
the people of Paris and their children. Colbert proposed to reserve them to the royal use,
but Perrault persuaded him to come there one day for a walk, showed him the citizens taking
the air and playing with their children; got the gardeners to testify that these privileges
were never abused, and carried his point by declaring, finally, that "the King's pleasaunce
was so spacious that there was room for all his children to walk there."

Sainte-Beuve, seventy years ago, pleaded that this service to the children of Paris should
be commemorated by a statue of Perrault in the centre of the Tuileries. The statue has never
been erected; and, to the present day, Paris, so plentifully provided with statues and pictures
of the great men of France, has neither the one nor the other to show that she appreciates
the genius of Perrault. Indeed, there is no statue of him in existence; and the only painting
of him with which I am acquainted is a doubtful one hung far away in an obscure corner of the
palace of Versailles.

The close of Perrault's official career marked the beginning of his period of greatest literary
activity. In 1686 he published his long narrative poem "Saint Paulin Evesque de Nole" with
"a Christian Epistle upon Penitence" and "an Ode to the Newly-converted," which he dedicated
to Bossuet. Between the years 1688 and 1696 appeared the "Parallèle des Anciens et des Modernes"
to which I have already referred. In 1693 he brought out his "Cabinet des Beaux Arts," beautifully
illustrated by engravings, and containing a poem on painting which even Boileau condescended
to admire. In 1694 he published his "Apologie des Femmes." He wrote two comedies--"L'Oublieux"
in 1691, and "Les Fontanges." These were not printed till 1868. They added nothing to his reputation.
Between 1691 and 1697 were composed the immortal "Histoires ou Contes du Temps Passé" and the
"Contes en Vers." Toward the end of his life he busied himself with the "Éloges des Hommes
Illustres du Siècle de Louis XIV." The first of these two stately volumes came out in 1696
and the second in 1700. They were illustrated by a hundred and two excellent engravings, including
one, by Edelinck, of Perrault himself and another of his brother Claude. These biographies
are written with kindly justice, and form a valuable contribution to the history of the reign
of the Roi Soleil. I have not exhausted the list of Perrault's writings, but, to speak frankly,
the rest are not worth mentioning.

He died, aged seventy-five, in 1703, deservedly admired and regretted by all who knew him.
This was not strange. For he was clever, honest, courteous, and witty. He did his duty to his
family, his employer, his friends, and to the public at large. In an age of great men, but
also of great prejudices, he fought his own way to fame and fortune. He served all the arts,
and practised most of them. Painters, writers, sculptors, musicians, and men of science all
gladly made him free of their company. As a good Civil Servant he was no politician, and he
showed no leaning whatever toward what was regarded in his time as the greatest of all professions--that
of arms. These two deficiencies, if deficiencies they be, only endear him the more to us. Every
one likes a man who deserves to enjoy life and does, in fact, enjoy it. Perrault was such a
man. He was more. He was the cause of enjoyment to countless of his fellows, and his stories
still promise enjoyment to countless others to come.

It is amazing to remember that Perrault was rather ashamed of his "Histoires ou Contes du Temps
Passé"--perhaps better known as "Les Contes de ma Mère l'Oye," or "Mother Goose's Tales," from
the rough print which was inserted as a frontispiece to the first collected edition in 1697.
He would not even publish them in his own name. They were declared to be by P. Darmancour,
Perrault's young son. In order that the secret might be well kept, Perrault abandoned his usual
publisher, Coignard, and went to Barbin. The stories had previously appeared from time to time,
anonymously, in Moetjens' little magazine the "Recueil," which was published from The Hague.
"La Belle au Bois Dormant" ("Sleeping Beauty") was the first: and in rapid succession followed
"Le Petit Chaperon Rouge" ("Red Riding-Hood"), "Le Maistre Chat, ou le Chat Botté" ("Puss in
Boots"), "Les Fées" ("The Fairy"), "Cendrillon, ou la Petite Pantoufle de Verre" ("Cinderella"),
"Riquet à la Houppe" ("Riquet of the Tuft"), and "Le Petit Poucet" ("Tom Thumb").

Perrault was not so shy in admitting the authorship of his three verse stories--"Griselidis,"
"Les Souhaits Ridicules," and "Peau d'Asne." The first appeared, anonymously it is true, in
1961; but, when it came to be reprinted with "Les Souhaits Ridicules" and "Peau d'Asne" in
1695, they were entrusted to the firm of Coignard and described as being by "Mr Perrault, de
l'Academie Françoise." La Fontaine had made a fashion of this sort of exercise.

It would not be fair to assume that P. Darmancour had no connection whatever with the composition
of the stories which bore his name. The best of Perrault's critics, Paul de St Victor and Andrew
Lang among others, see in the book a marvellous collaboration of crabbed age and youth. The
boy, probably, gathered the stories from his nurse and brought them to his father, who touched
them up, and toned them down, and wrote them out. Paul Lacroix, in his fine edition of 1886,
goes as far as to attribute the entire authorship of the prose tales to Perrault's son. He
deferred, however, to universal usage when he entitled his volume "Les Contes en prose de Charles
Perrault."

"Les Contes du Temps Passé" had an immediate success. Imitators sprung up at once by the dozen,
and still persist; but none of them has ever rivalled, much less surpassed, the inimitable
originals. Every few years a new and sumptuous edition appears in France. The best are probably
those by Paul Lacroix and André le Fèvre.

The stories soon crossed the Channel; and a translation "by Mr Samber, printed for J. Pote"
was advertised in the "Monthly Chronicle" of 1729. "Mr Samber" was presumably one Robert Samber
of New Inn, who translated other tales from the French, for Edmond Curl the bookseller, about
this time. No copy of the first edition of his Perrault is known to exist. Yet it won a wide
popularity, as is shown by the fact that there was a seventh edition published in 1795, for
J. Rivington, a bookseller, of Pearl Street, New York.

No English translation of Perrault's fairy tales has attained unquestioned literary pre-eminence.
So the publishers of the present book have thought it best to use Samber's translation, which
has a special interest of its own in being almost contemporary with the original. The text
has been thoroughly revised and corrected by Mr J. E. Mansion, who has purged it of many errors
without detracting from its old-fashioned quality. To Mr Mansion also is due the credit for
the translation of the "Les Souhaits Ridicules" and for the adaptation of "Peau d'Asne." "Griselidis"
is excluded from this book for two good reasons; firstly, because it is an admitted borrowing
by Perrault from Boccaccio; secondly, because it is not a 'fairy' tale in the true sense of
the word.

It is, perhaps, unnecessary for me to add anything about Mr Clarke's illustrations. Many of
the readers of this book will be already familiar with his work. Besides, I always feel that
it is an impertinence to describe pictures in their presence. Mr Clarke's speak for themselves.
They speak for Perrault too. It is seldom, indeed, that an illustrator enters so thoroughly
into the spirit of his text. The grace, delicacy, urbanity, tenderness, and humour which went
to the making of Perrault's stories must, it seems, have also gone in somewhat similar proportions
to the making of these delightful drawings. I am sure that they would have given pleasure to
Perrault himself.

One day, her mother, having made some girdle-cakes, said to her:

"Go, my dear, and see how thy grand-mamma does, for I hear she has been very ill, carry her
a girdle-cake, and this little pot of butter."

Little Red Riding-Hood set out immediately to go to her grand-mother, who lived in another village.

"Who's there?"

The good grand-mother, who was in bed, because she found herself somewhat ill, cry'd out:

"Pull the peg, and the bolt will fall."

Little Red Riding-Hood pulled the peg, and the door opened. The Wolf seeing her come in, said
to her, hiding himself under the bedclothes:

"Put the cake, and the little pot of butter upon the bread-bin, and come and lye down with me."

Little Red Riding-Hood undressed herself, and went into bed; where, being greatly amazed to
see how her grand-mother looked in her night-cloaths, she said to her:

"Grand-mamma, what great arms you have got!"

"That is the better to hug thee, my dear."

"Grand-mamma, what great legs you have got!"

"That is to run the better, my child."

"Grand-mamma, what great ears you have got!"

"That is to hear the better, my child."

"Grand-mamma, what great eyes you have got!"

"It is to see the better, my child."

The Moral

    From this short story easy we discern
    What conduct all young people ought to learn.
    But above all, young, growing misses fair,
    Whose orient rosy blooms begin t'appear:
    Who, beauties in the fragrant spring of age,
    With pretty airs young hearts are apt t'engage.
    Ill do they listen to all sorts of tongues,
    Since some inchant and lure like Syrens' songs.
    No wonder therefore 'tis, if over-power'd,
    So many of them has the Wolf devour'd.
    The Wolf, I say, for Wolves too sure there are
    Of every sort, and every character.
    Some of them mild and gentle-humour'd be,
    Of noise and gall, and rancour wholly free;
    Who tame, familiar, full of complaisance
    Ogle and leer, languish, cajole and glance;
    With luring tongues, and language wond'rous sweet,
    Follow young ladies as they walk the street,
    Ev'n to their very houses, nay, bedside,
    And, artful, tho' their true designs they hide;
    Yet ah! these simpering Wolves! Who does not see
    Most dangerous of Wolves indeed they be?

The Fairy

The Fairy

There was, once upon a time, a widow, who had two daughters.

The Moral

    Money and jewels still, we find,
    Stamp strong impressions on the mind.
    But sweet discourse more potent riches yields;
    Of higher value is the pow'r it wields.

Another

      Civil behaviour costs indeed some pains,
    Requires of complaisance some little share;
      But soon or late its due reward it gains,
    And meets it often when we're not aware.

"I must certainly," answered she, "have left it above upon the table."

"Fail not," said Blue Beard, "to bring it me presently."

The Moral

    O curiosity, thou mortal bane!
    Spite of thy charms, thou causest often pain
    And sore regret, of which we daily find
    A thousand instances attend mankind:
    For thou--O may it not displease the fair--
    A fleeting pleasure art, but lasting care.
    And always proves, alas! too dear the prize,
    Which, in the moment of possession, dies.

Another

    A very little share of common sense,
    And knowledge of the world, will soon evince
    That this a story is of time long pass'd;
    No husbands now such panic terrors cast;
    Nor weakly, with a vain despotic hand,
    Imperious, what's impossible, command:
    And be they discontented, or the fire
    Of wicked jealousy their hearts inspire,
    They softly sing; and of whatever hue
    Their beards may chance to be, or black, or blue,
    Grizeld, or russet, it is hard to say
    Which of the two, the man or wife, bears sway. The common opinion was that an Ogre[1] lived there,
and that he carried thither all the little children he could catch,
that he might eat them up at his leisure, without any-body's being
able to follow him, as having himself, only, the power to pass thro'
the wood.

[Footnote 1: OGRE is a giant, with long teeth and claws, with a raw head and bloody-bones,
who runs away with naughty little boys and girls, and eats them up. The Prince told him that
he lost his way in the forest, as he was hunting, and that he had lain at the cottage of a
collier, who gave him cheese and brown bread. And so the Prince would never tell her one word.

But when the King was dead, which happened about two years afterwards; and he saw himself lord
and master, he openly declared his marriage; and he went in great ceremony to fetch his Queen
from the castle. They made a magnificent entry into the capital city, she riding between her
two children.

Some time after, the King went to make war with the Emperor Cantalabutte, his neighbour.

The Moral

    To get as prize a husband rich and gay.
    Of humour sweet, with many years to stay,
    Is natural enough, 'tis true;
    To wait for him a hundred years,
    And all that while asleep, appears
    A thing entirely new.
    Now at this time of day,
    Not one of all the sex we see
    Doth sleep with such profound tranquillity:
    But yet this Fable seems to let us know
    That very often Hymen's blisses sweet,
    Altho' some tedious obstacles they meet,
    Are not less happy for approaching slow.
    'Tis nature's way that ladies fair
    Should yearn conjugal joys to share;
    And so I've not the heart to preach
    A moral that's beyond their reach.

"Truly a fine estate," said the King to the Marquis of Carabas.

The Moral

    How advantageous it may be,
    By long descent of pedigree,
              T'enjoy a great estate,
    Yet knowledge how to act, we see,
    Join'd with consummate industry,
              (Nor wonder ye thereat)
    Doth often prove a greater boon,
    As should be to young people known.

Another

    If the son of a miller so soon gains the heart
    Of a beautiful princess, and makes her impart
    Sweet languishing glances, eyes melting for love,
    It must be remark'd of fine clothes how they move,
    And that youth, a good face, a good air, with good mien,
    Are not always indifferent mediums to win
    The love of the fair, and gently inspire
    The flames of sweet passion, and tender desire.

[Footnote 3: 'Pinners' were coifs with two long side-flaps pinned on. As she was doing this,
they said to her:

"Cinderilla, would you not be glad to go to the ball?"

[Footnote 4: In Perrault's tale: pantoufles de verre. There is no doubt that in the medieval
versions of this ancient tale Cinderilla was given pantoufles de vair--i.e., of a grey, or
grey and white, fur, the exact nature of which has been a matter of controversy, but which
was probably a grey squirrel. Long before the seventeenth century the word vair had passed
out of use, except as a heraldic term, and had ceased to convey any meaning to the people.
Cinderilla was transported with joy; she asked them the name of that Princess; but they told
her they did not know it; and that the King's son was very anxious to learn it, and would give
all the world to know who she was.

"Ay, to be sure!" cried Miss Charlotte, "lend my cloaths to such a dirty Cinder-breech as thou
art; who's the fool then?"

The Moral

    Beauty's to the sex a treasure,
    Still admir'd beyond all measure,
    And never yet was any known,
    By still admiring, weary grown.
    But that rare quality call'd grace,
    Exceeds, by far, a handsome face;
    Its lasting charms surpass the other,
    And this rich gift her kind godmother
    Bestow'd on Cinderilla fair,
    Whom she instructed with such care.
    She gave to her such graceful mien,
    That she, thereby, became a queen.
    For thus (may ever truth prevail)
    We draw our moral from this tale.
    This quality, fair ladies, know
    Prevails much more (you'll find it so)
    T'ingage and captivate a heart,
    Than a fine head dress'd up with art.
    The fairies' gift of greatest worth
    Is grace of bearing, not high birth;
    Without this gift we'll miss the prize;
    Possession gives us wings to rise.

Another

    A great advantage 'tis, no doubt, to man,
    To have wit, courage, birth, good sense, and brain,
    And other such-like qualities, which we
    Receiv'd from heaven's kind hand, and destiny.
    But none of these rich graces from above,
    To your advancement in the world will prove
    If godmothers and sires you disobey,
    Or 'gainst their strict advice too long you stay.

Riquet with the Tuft

Riquet with the Tuft

There was, once upon a time, a Queen, who was brought to bed of a son, so hideously ugly, that
it was long disputed, whether he had human form. A Fairy, who was at his birth, affirmed, he
would be very lovable for all that, since he should be indowed with abundance of wit. She even
added, that it would be in his power, by virtue of a gift she had just then given him, to bestow
on the person he most loved as much wit as he pleased. All this somewhat comforted the poor
Queen, who was under a grievous affliction for having brought into the world such an ugly brat.
It is true, that this child no sooner began to prattle, but he said a thousand pretty things,
and that in all his actions there was something so taking, that he charmed every-body. I forgot
to tell you, that he came into the world with a little tuft of hair upon his head, which made
them call him Riquet with the Tuft, for Riquet was the family name.

Seven or eight years after this, the Queen of a neighbouring kingdom was delivered of two daughters
at a birth. The first-born of these was beautiful beyond compare, whereat the Queen was so
very glad, that those present were afraid that her excess of joy would do her harm. The same
Fairy, who had assisted at the birth of little Riquet with the Tuft, was here also; and, to
moderate the Queen's gladness, she declared, that this little Princess should have no wit at
all, but be as stupid as she was pretty. This mortified the Queen extreamly, but some moments
afterwards she had far greater sorrow; for, the second daughter she was delivered of, was very
ugly.

"Do not afflict yourself so much, Madam," said the Fairy; "your daughter shall have so great
a portion of wit, that her want of beauty will scarcely be perceived."

"God grant it," replied the Queen; "but is there no way to make the eldest, who is so pretty,
have some little wit?"

"I can do nothing for her, Madam, as to wit," answered the Fairy, "but everything as to beauty;
and as there is nothing but what I would do for your satisfaction, I give her for gift, that
she shall have the power to make handsome the person who shall best please her."

As these Princesses grew up, their perfections grew up with them; all the public talk was of
the beauty of the eldest, and the wit of the youngest. It is true also that their defects increased
considerably with their age; the youngest visibly grew uglier and uglier, and the eldest became
every day more and more stupid; she either made no answer at all to what was asked her, or
said something very silly; she was with all this so unhandy, that she could not place four
pieces of china upon the mantlepiece, without breaking one of them, nor drink a glass of water
without spilling half of it upon her cloaths. Tho' beauty is a very great advantage in young
people, yet here the youngest sister bore away the bell, almost always, in all companies from
the eldest; people would indeed, go first to the Beauty to look upon, and admire her, but turn
aside soon after to the Wit, to hear a thousand most entertaining and agreeable turns, and
it was amazing to see, in less than a quarter of an hour's time, the eldest with not a soul
with her and the whole company crowding about the youngest. The eldest, tho' she was unaccountably
dull, could not but notice it, and would have given all her beauty to have half the wit of
her sister. The Queen, prudent as she was, could not help reproaching her several times, which
had like to have made this poor Princess die for grief.

One day, as she retired into the wood to bewail her misfortune, she saw, coming to her, a little
man, very disagreeable, but most magnificently dressed. This was the young Prince Riquet with
the Tuft, who having fallen in love with her, by seeing her picture, many of which went all
the world over, had left his father's kingdom, to have the pleasure of seeing and talking with her.

Overjoyed to find her thus all alone, he addressed himself to her with all imaginable politeness
and respect. Having observed, after he had made her the ordinary compliments, that she was
extremely melancholy, he said to her:

"I cannot comprehend, Madam, how a person so beautiful as you are, can be so sorrowful as you
seem to be; for tho' I can boast of having seen infinite numbers of ladies exquisitely charming,
I can say that I never beheld any one whose beauty approaches yours."

"You are pleased to say so," answered the Princess, and here she stopped.

"Beauty," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "is such a great advantage, that it ought to take the
place of all things; and since you possess this treasure, I see nothing that can possibly very
much afflict you."

"I had far rather," cried the Princess, "be as ugly as you are, and have wit, than have the
beauty I possess, and be so stupid as I am."

"There is nothing, Madam," returned he, "shews more that we have wit, than to believe we have
none; and it is the nature of that excellent quality, that the more people have of it, the
more they believe they want it."

"I do not know that," said the Princess; "but I know, very well, that I am very senseless,
and thence proceeds the vexation which almost kills me."

"If that be all, Madam, which troubles you, I can very easily put an end to your affliction."

"And how will you do that?" cried the Princess.

"I have the power, Madam," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "to give to that person whom I shall
love best, as much wit as can be had; and as you, Madam, are that very person, it will be your
fault only, if you have not as great a share of it as any one living, provided you will be
pleased to marry me."

The Princess remained quite astonished, and answered not a word.

"I see," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "that this proposal makes you very uneasy, and I do
not wonder at it, but I will give you a whole year to consider of it."

The Princess had so little wit, and, at the same time, so great a longing to have some, that
she imagined the end of that year would never be; therefore she accepted the proposal which
was made her. She had no sooner promised Riquet with the Tuft that she would marry him on that
day twelvemonth, than she found herself quite otherwise than she was before; she had an incredible
facility of speaking whatever she pleased, after a polite, easy, and natural manner; she began
that moment a very gallant conversation with Riquet with the Tuft, wherein she tattled at such
a rate, that Riquet with the Tuft believed he had given her more wit than he had reserved for
himself.

When she returned to the palace, the whole Court knew not what to think of such a sudden and
extraordinary change; for they heard from her now as much sensible discourse, and as many infinitely
witty turns, as they had stupid and silly impertinences before. The whole Court was overjoyed
at it beyond imagination; it pleased all but her younger sister; because having no longer the
advantage of her in respect of wit, she appeared, in comparison of her, a very disagreeable,
homely puss. The King governed himself by her advice, and would even sometimes hold a council
in her apartment. The noise of this change spreading every where, all the young Princes of
the neighbouring kingdoms strove all they could to gain her favour, and almost all of them
asked her in marriage; but she found not one of them had wit enough for her, and she gave them
all a hearing, but would not engage herself to any.

However, there came one so powerful, rich, witty and handsome, that she could not help having
a good inclination for him. Her father perceived it, and told her that she was her own mistress
as to the choice of a husband, and that she might declare her intentions. As the more wit we
have, the greater difficulty we find to make a firm resolution upon such affairs, this made
her desire her father, after having thanked him, to give her time to consider of it.

She went accidentally to walk in the same wood where she met Riquet with the Tuft, to think,
the more conveniently, what she ought to do. While she was walking in a profound meditation,
she heard a confused noise under her feet, as it were of a great many people who went backwards
and forwards, and were very busy. Having listened more attentively, she heard one say:

"Bring me that pot"; another "Give me that kettle"; and a third, "Put some wood upon the fire."

The ground at the same time opened, and she seemingly saw under her feet, a great kitchen full
of cooks, scullions, and all sorts of servants necessary for a magnificent entertainment. There
came out of it a company of roasters, to the number of twenty, or thirty, who went to plant
themselves in a fine alley of wood, about a very long table, with their larding pins in their
hands, and skewers in their caps, who began to work, keeping time, to the tune of a very harmonious
song.

The Princess, all astonished at this sight, asked them who they worked for.

"For Prince Riquet with the Tuft," said the chief of them, "who is to be married to-morrow."

The Princess was more surprised than ever, and recollecting that it was now that day twelvemonth
on which she had promised to marry Riquet with the Tuft, she was like to sink into the ground.

What made her forget this was that, when she made this promise, she was very silly, and having
obtained that vast stock of wit which the Prince had bestowed on her, she had intirely forgot
her stupidity. She continued walking, but had not taken thirty steps before Riquet with the
Tuft presented himself to her, bravely and most magnificently dressed, like a Prince who was
going to be married.

"You see, Madam," said he, "I am very exact in keeping my word, and doubt not, in the least,
but you are come hither to perform yours, and to make me, by giving me your hand, the happiest
of men."

"I shall freely own to you," answered the Princess, "that I have not yet taken any resolution
on this affair, and believe I never shall take such a one as you desire."

"You astonish me, Madam," said Riquet with the Tuft.

"I believe it," said the Princess, "and surely if I had to do with a clown, or a man of no
wit, I should find myself very much at a loss. 'A Princess always observes her word,' would
he say to me, 'and you must marry me, since you promised to do so.' But as he whom I talk to
is the man of the world who is master of the greatest sense and judgment, I am sure he will
hear reason. You know, that when I was but a fool, I could, notwithstanding, never come to
a resolution to marry you; why will you have me, now I have so much judgment as you gave me,
and which makes me a more difficult person than I was at that time, to come to such a resolution,
which I could not then determine to agree to? If you sincerely thought to make me your wife,
you have been greatly in the wrong to deprive me of my dull simplicity, and make me see things
much more clearly than I did."

"If a man of no wit and sense," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "would be entitled, as you say,
to reproach you for breach of your word, why will you not let me, Madam, do likewise in a matter
wherein all the happiness of my life is concerned? Is it reasonable that persons of wit and
sense should be in a worse condition than those who have none? Can you pretend this; you who
have so great a share, and desired so earnestly to have it? But let us come to fact, if you
please. Setting aside my ugliness and deformity, is there any thing in me which displeases
you? Are you dissatisfied with my birth, my wit, humour, or manners?"

"Not at all," answered the Princess; "I love you and respect you in all that you mention."
"If it be so," said Riquet with the Tuft, "I am like to be happy, since it is in your power
to make me the most lovable of men."

"How can that be?" said the Princess.

"It will come about," said Riquet with the Tuft; "if you love me enough to wish it to be so;
and that you may no ways doubt, Madam, of what I say, know that the same Fairy, who, on my
birth-day, gave me for gift the power of making the person who should please me extremely witty
and judicious, has, in like manner, given you for gift the power of making him, whom you love,
and would grant that favour to, extremely handsome."

"If it be so," said the Princess, "I wish, with all my heart, that you may be the most lovable
Prince in the world, and I bestow it on you, as much as I am able."

The Princess had no sooner pronounced these words, but Riquet with the Tuft appeared to her
the finest Prince upon earth; the handsomest and most amiable man she ever saw. Some affirm
that it was not the enchantments of the Fairy which worked this change, but that love alone
caused the metamorphosis. They say, that the Princess, having made due reflection on the perseverance
of her lover, his discretion, and all the good qualities of his mind, his wit and judgment,
saw no longer the deformity of his body, nor the ugliness of his face; that his hump seemed
to her no more than the homely air of one who has a broad back; and that whereas till then
she saw him limp horribly, she found it nothing more than a certain sidling air, which charmed
her. They say farther, that his eyes, which were very squinting, seemed to her all the more
bright and sparkling; that their irregularity passed in her judgment for a mark of a violent
excess of love; and, in short, that his great red nose had, in her opinion, somewhat of the
martial and heroic.

Howsoever it was, the Princess promised immediately to marry him, on condition he obtained
her father's consent. The King being acquainted that his daughter had abundance of esteem for
Riquet with the Tuft, whom he knew otherwise for a most sage and judicious Prince, received
him for his son-in-law with pleasure; and the next morning their nuptials were celebrated,
as Riquet with the Tuft had foreseen, and according to the orders he had a long time before given.

The Moral

    What in this little Tale we find,
    Is less a fable than real truth.
    In those we love appear rare gifts of mind,
    And body too: wit, judgment, beauty, youth.

Another

    A countenance whereon, by natures hand,
    Beauty is trac'd, also the lively stain
    Of such complexion art can ne'er attain,
    With all these gifts hath not so much command
    On hearts, as hath one secret charm alone.
    Love finds that out, to all besides unknown. One might wonder how that the
faggot-maker could have so many children in so little a time; but it
was because his wife went nimbly about her business and never brought
fewer than two at a birth. It was not that the faggot-maker was not,
perhaps, more vexed than his wife, but that she teized him, and that
he was of the humour of a great many others, who love wives who speak
right, but think those very importunate who are always in the right.

As he spake these words, he got up from the table, and went directly to the bed.

The Ogre, when he waked, said to his wife:

"Go up stairs and dress those young rascals who came here last night." There were some married
women, too, who sent letters by him to their husbands, but they paid him so ill that it was
not worth his while, and turned to such small account, that he scorned ever to reckon what
he got that way.

The Moral

    At many children parents don't repine,
    If they are handsome; in their judgment shine;
    Polite in carriage are, in body strong,
    Graceful in mien, and elegant in tongue.
    But if perchance an offspring prove but weak,
    Him they revile, laugh at, defraud and cheat.
    Such is the wretched world's curs'd way; and yet
    Sometimes this urchin whom despis'd we see,
    Through unforeseen events doth honour get,
    And fortune bring to all his family.

The Ridiculous Wishes

The Ridiculous Wishes

In days long past there lived a poor woodcutter who found life very hard. Indeed, it was his
lot to toil for little guerdon, and although he was young and happily married there were moments
when he wished himself dead and below ground.

One day while at his work he was again lamenting his fate.

"Some men," he said, "have only to make known their desires, and straightway these are granted,
and their every wish fulfilled; but it has availed me little to wish for ought, for the gods
are deaf to the prayers of such as I."

As he spoke these words there was a great noise of thunder, and Jupiter appeared before him
wielding his mighty thunderbolts. Our poor man was stricken with fear and threw himself on
the ground.

"My lord," he said, "forget my foolish speech; heed not my wishes, but cease thy thundering!"

"Have no fear," answered Jupiter; "I have heard thy plaint, and have come hither to show thee
how greatly thou dost wrong me. Hark! I, who am sovereign lord of this world, promise to grant
in full the first three wishes which it will please thee to utter, whatever these may be. Consider
well what things can bring thee joy and prosperity, and as thy happiness is at stake, be not
over-hasty, but revolve the matter in thy mind."

Having thus spoken Jupiter withdrew himself and made his ascent to Olympus. As for our woodcutter,
he blithely corded his faggot, and throwing it over his shoulder, made for his home. To one
so light of heart the load also seemed light, and his thoughts were merry as he strode along.
Many a wish came into his mind, but he was resolved to seek the advice of his wife, who was
a young woman of good understanding.

He had soon reached his cottage, and casting down his faggot:

"Behold me, Fanny," he said. "Make up the fire and spread the board, and let there be no stint.
We are wealthy, Fanny, wealthy for evermore; we have only to wish for whatsoever we may desire."

Thereupon he told her the story of what had befallen that day. Fanny, whose mind was quick
and active, immediately conceived many plans for the advancement of their fortune, but she
approved her husband's resolve to act with prudence and circumspection.

"'Twere a pity," she said, "to spoil our chances through impatience. We had best take counsel
of the night, and wish no wishes until to-morrow."

"That is well spoken," answered Harry. "Meanwhile fetch a bottle of our best, and we shall
drink to our good fortune."

Fanny brought a bottle from the store behind the faggots, and our man enjoyed his ease, leaning
back in his chair with his toes to the fire and his goblet in his hand.

"What fine glowing embers!" he said, "and what a fine toasting fire! I wish we had a black
pudding at hand."

Hardly had he spoken these words when his wife beheld, to her great astonishment, a long black
pudding which, issuing from a corner of the hearth, came winding and wriggling towards her.
She uttered a cry of fear, and then again exclaimed in dismay, when she perceived that this
strange occurrence was due to the wish which her husband had so rashly and foolishly spoken.
Turning upon him, in her anger and disappointment she called the poor man all the abusive names
that she could think of.

"What!" she said to him, "when you can call for a kingdom, for gold, pearls, rubies, diamonds,
for princely garments and wealth untold, is this the time to set your mind upon black puddings!"

"Nay!" answered the man, "'twas a thoughtless speech, and a sad mistake; but I shall now be
on my guard, and shall do better next time."

"Who knows that you will?" returned his wife. "Once a witless fool, always a witless fool!"
and giving free rein to her vexation and ill-temper she continued to upbraid her husband until
his anger also was stirred, and he had wellnigh made a second bid and wished himself a widower.

"Enough! woman," he cried at last; "put a check upon thy froward tongue! Who ever heard such
impertinence as this! A plague on the shrew and on her pudding! Would to heaven it hung at
the end of her nose!"

No sooner had the husband given voice to these words than the wish was straightway granted,
and the long coil of black pudding appeared grafted to the angry dame's nose.

Our man paused when he beheld what he had wrought. Fanny was a comely young woman, and blest
with good looks, and truth to tell, this new ornament did not set off her beauty. Yet it offered
one advantage, that as it hung right before her mouth, it would thus effectively curb her speech.

So, having now but one wish left, he had all but resolved to make good use of it without further
delay, and, before any other mischance could befall, to wish himself a kingdom of his own.
He was about to speak the word, when he was stayed by a sudden thought.

"It is true," he said to himself, "that there is none so great as a King, but what of the Queen
that must share his dignity? With what grace would she sit beside me on the throne with a yard
of black pudding for a nose?"

In this dilemma he resolved to put the case to Fanny, and to leave her to decide whether she
would rather be a Queen, with this most horrible appendage marring her good looks, or remain
a peasant wife, but with her shapely nose relieved of this untoward addition.

Fanny's mind was soon made up: although she had dreamt of a crown and sceptre, yet a woman's
first wish is always to please. To this great desire all else must yield, and Fanny would rather
be fair in drugget than be a Queen with an ugly face.

Thus our woodcutter did not change his state, did not become a potentate, nor fill his purse
with golden crowns. He was thankful enough to use his remaining wish to a more humble purpose,
and forthwith relieved his wife of her encumbrance.

The Moral

    Ah! so it is that miserable man,
    By nature fickle, blind, unwise, and rash,
    Oft fails to reap a harvest from great gifts
    Bestowed upon him by the heav'nly gods.

Donkey-skin

Donkey-skin

Once upon a time there was a King, so great, so beloved by his people, and so respected by
all his neighbours and allies that one might almost say he was the happiest monarch alive.
His good fortune was made even greater by the choice he had made for wife of a Princess as
beautiful as she was virtuous, with whom he lived in perfect happiness. Now, of this chaste
marriage was born a daughter endowed with so many gifts that they had no regret because other
children were not given to them.

Magnificence, good taste, and abundance reigned in the palace; there were wise and clever ministers,
virtuous and devoted courtiers, faithful and diligent servants. The spacious stables were filled
with the most beautiful horses in the world, and coverts of rich caparison; but what most astonished
strangers who came to admire them was to see, in the finest stall, a master donkey, with great
long ears.

Now, it was not for a whim but for a good reason that the King had given this donkey a particular
and distinguished place. The special qualities of this rare animal deserved the distinction,
since nature had made it in so extraordinary a way that its litter, instead of being like that
of other donkeys, was covered every morning with an abundance of beautiful golden crowns, and
golden louis of every kind, which were collected daily.

Since the vicissitudes of life wait on Kings as much as on their subjects, and good is always
mingled with ill, it so befell that the Queen was suddenly attacked by a fatal illness, and,
in spite of science, and the skill of the doctors, no remedy could be found. There was great
mourning throughout the land. The King who, notwithstanding the famous proverb, that marriage
is the tomb of love, was deeply attached to his wife, was distressed beyond measure and made
fervent vows to all the temples in his kingdom, and offered to give his life for that of his
beloved consort; but he invoked the gods and the Fairies in vain. The Queen, feeling her last
hour approach, said to her husband, who was dissolved in tears: "It is well that I should speak
to you of a certain matter before I die: if, perchance, you should desire to marry again...."
At these words the King broke into piteous cries, took his wife's hands in his own, and assured
her that it was useless to speak to him of a second marriage.

"No, my dear spouse," he said at last, "speak to me rather of how I may follow you."

"The State," continued the Queen with a finality which but increased the laments of the King,
"the State demands successors, and since I have only given you a daughter, it will urge you
to beget sons who resemble you; but I ask you earnestly not to give way to the persuasions
of your people until you have found a Princess more beautiful and more perfectly fashioned
than I. I beg you to swear this to me, and then I shall die content."

Perchance, the Queen, who did not lack self-esteem, exacted this oath firmly believing that
there was not her equal in the world, and so felt assured that the King would never marry again.
Be this as it may, at length she died, and never did husband make so much lamentation; the
King wept and sobbed day and night, and the punctilious fulfilment of the rites of widower-hood,
even the smallest, was his sole occupation.

But even great griefs do not last for ever. After a time the magnates of the State assembled
and came to the King, urging him to take another wife. At first this request seemed hard to
him and made him shed fresh tears. He pleaded the vows he had made to the Queen, and defied
his counsellors to find a Princess more beautiful and better fashioned than was she, thinking
this to be impossible. But the Council treated the promise as a trifle, and said that it mattered
little about beauty if the Queen were but virtuous and fruitful. For the State needed Princes
for its peace and prosperity, and though, in truth, the Princess, his daughter, had all the
qualities requisite for making a great Queen, yet of necessity she must choose an alien for
her husband, and then the stranger would take her away with him. If, on the other hand, he
remained in her country and shared the throne with her, their children would not be considered
to be of pure native stock, and so, there being no Prince of his name, neighbouring peoples
would stir up wars, and the kingdom would be ruined.

The King, impressed by these considerations, promised that he would think over the matter.
And so search was made among all the marriageable Princesses for one that would suit him. Every
day charming portraits were brought him, but none gave promise of the beauty of his late Queen;
instead of coming to a decision he brooded over his sorrow until in the end his reason left
him. In his delusions he imagined himself once more a young man; he thought the Princess his
daughter, in her youth and beauty, was his Queen as he had known her in the days of their courtship,
and living thus in the past he urged the unhappy girl to speedily become his bride.

The young Princess, who was virtuous and chaste, threw herself at the feet of the King her
father and conjured him, with all the eloquence she could command, not to constrain her to
consent to his unnatural desire.

The King, in his madness, could not understand the reason of her desperate reluctance, and
asked an old Druid-priest to set the conscience of the Princess at rest. Now this Druid, less
religious than ambitious, sacrificed the cause of innocence and virtue to the favour of so
great a monarch, and instead of trying to restore the King to his right mind, he encouraged
him in his delusion.

The young Princess, beside herself with misery, at last bethought her of the Lilac-fairy, her
godmother; determined to consult her, she set out that same night in a pretty little carriage
drawn by a great sheep who knew all the roads. When she arrived the Fairy, who loved the Princess,
told her that she knew all she had come to say, but that she need have no fear, for nothing
would harm her if only she faithfully fulfilled the Fairy's injunctions. "For, my dear child,"
she said to her, "it would be a great sin to submit to your father's wishes, but you can avoid
the necessity without displeasing him. Tell him that to satisfy a whim you have, he must give
you a dress the colour of the weather. Never, in spite of all his love and his power will he
be able to give you that."

The Princess thanked her godmother from her heart, and the next morning spoke to the King as
the Fairy had counselled her, and protested that no one would win her hand unless he gave her
a dress the colour of the weather. The King, overjoyed and hopeful, called together the most
skilful workmen, and demanded this robe of them; otherwise they should be hanged. But he was
saved from resorting to this extreme measure, since, on the second day, they brought the much
desired robe. The heavens are not a more beautiful blue, when they are girdled with clouds
of gold, than was that lovely dress when it was unfolded. The Princess was very sad because
of it, and did not know what to do.

Once more she went to her Fairy-godmother who, astonished that her plan had been foiled, now
told her to ask for another gown the colour of the moon.

The King again sought out the most clever workmen and expressly commanded them to make a dress
the colour of the moon; and woe betide them if between the giving of the order and the bringing
of the dress more than twenty-four hours should elapse.

The Princess, though pleased with the dress when it was delivered, gave way to distress when
she was with her women and her nurse. The Lilac-fairy, who knew all, hastened to comfort her
and said: "Either I am greatly deceived or it is certain that if you ask for a dress the colour
of the sun we shall at last baffle the King your father, for it would never be possible to
make such a gown; in any case we should gain time."

So the Princess asked for yet another gown as the Fairy bade her. The infatuated King could
refuse his daughter nothing, and he gave without regret all the diamonds and rubies in his
crown to aid this superb work; nothing was to be spared that could make the dress as beautiful
as the sun. And, indeed, when the dress appeared, all those who unfolded it were obliged to
close their eyes, so much were they dazzled. And, truth to tell, green spectacles and smoked
glasses date from that time.

What was the Princess to do? Never had so beautiful and so artistic a robe been seen. She was
dumb-founded, and pretending that its brilliance had hurt her eyes she retired to her chamber,
where she found the Fairy awaiting her.

On seeing the dress like the sun, the Lilac-fairy became red with rage. "Oh! this time, my
child," she said to the Princess, "we will put the King to terrible proof. In spite of his
madness I think he will be a little astonished by the request that I counsel you to make of
him; it is that he should give you the skin of that ass he loves so dearly, and which supplies
him so profusely with the means of paying all his expenses. Go, and do not fail to tell him
that you want this skin." The Princess, overjoyed at finding yet another avenue of escape;
for she thought that her father could never bring himself to sacrifice the ass, went to find
him, and unfolded to him her latest desire.

Although the King was astonished by this whim, he did not hesitate to satisfy it; the poor
ass was sacrificed and the skin brought, with due ceremony, to the Princess, who, seeing no
other way of avoiding her ill-fortune, was desperate.

At that moment her godmother arrived. "What are you doing, my child?" she asked, seeing the
Princess tearing her hair, her beautiful cheeks stained with tears. "This is the most happy
moment of your life. Wrap yourself in this skin, leave the palace, and walk so long as you
can find ground to carry you: when one sacrifices everything to virtue the gods know how to
mete out reward. Go, and I will take care that your possessions follow you; in whatever place
you rest, your chest with your clothes and your jewels will follow your steps, and here is
my wand which I will give you: tap the ground with it when you have need of the chest, and
it will appear before your eyes: but haste to set forth, and do not delay." The Princess embraced
her godmother many times, and begged her not to forsake her. Then after she had smeared herself
with soot from the chimney, she wrapped herself up in that ugly skin and went out from the
magnificent palace without being recognised by a single person.

The absence of the Princess caused a great commotion. The King, who had caused a sumptuous
banquet to be prepared, was inconsolable. He sent out more than a hundred gendarmes, and more
than a thousand musketeers in quest of her; but the Lilac-fairy made her invisible to the cleverest
seekers, and thus she escaped their vigilance.

Meanwhile the Princess walked far, far and even farther away; after a time she sought for a
resting place, but although out of charity people gave her food, she was so dishevelled and
dirty that no one wanted to keep her. At length she came to a beautiful town, at the gate of
which was a small farm. Now the farmer's wife had need of a wench to wash the dishes and to
attend to the geese and the pigs, and seeing so dirty a vagrant offered to engage her. The
Princess, who was now much fatigued, accepted joyfully. She was put into a recess in the kitchen
where for the first days she was subjected to the coarse jokes of the men-servants, so dirty
and unpleasant did the donkey-skin make her appear. At last they tired of their pleasantries;
moreover she was so attentive to her work that the farmer's wife took her under her protection.
She minded the sheep, and penned them up when it was necessary, and she took the geese out
to feed with such intelligence that it seemed as if she had never done anything else. Everything
that her beautiful hands undertook was done well.

One day she was sitting near a clear fountain where she often repaired to bemoan her sad condition,
when she thought she would look at herself in the water. The horrible donkey-skin which covered
her from head to toe revolted her. Ashamed, she washed her face and her hands, which became
whiter than ivory, and once again her lovely complexion took its natural freshness. The joy
of finding herself so beautiful filled her with the desire to bathe in the pool, and this she
did. But she had to don her unworthy skin again before she returned to the farm.

By good fortune the next day chanced to be a holiday, and so she had leisure to tap for her
chest with the fairy's wand, arrange her toilet, powder her beautiful hair and put on the lovely
gown which was the colour of the weather; but the room was so small that the train could not
be properly spread out. The beautiful Princess looked at herself, and with good reason, admired
her appearance so much that she resolved to wear her magnificent dresses in turn on holidays
and Sundays for her own amusement, and this she regularly did. She entwined flowers and diamonds
in her lovely hair with admirable art, and often she sighed that she had no witness of her
beauty save the sheep and geese, who loved her just as much in the horrible donkey-skin after
which she had been named at the farm.

One holiday when Donkey-skin had put on her sun-hued dress, the son of the King to whom the
farm belonged alighted there to rest on his return from the hunt. This Prince was young and
handsome, beloved of his father and of the Queen his mother, and adored by the people. After
he had partaken of the simple collation which was offered him he set out to inspect the farm-yard
and all its nooks and corners. In going thus from place to place, he entered a dark alley at
the bottom of which was a closed door. Curiosity made him put his eye to the keyhole. Imagine
his astonishment at seeing a Princess so beautiful and so richly dressed, and withal of so
noble and dignified a mien, that he took her to be a divinity. The impetuosity of his feelings
at this moment would have made him force the door, had it not been for the respect with which
that charming figure filled him.

It was with difficulty that he withdrew from this gloomy little alley, intent on discovering
who the inmate of the tiny room might be. He was told that it was a scullion called Donkey-skin
because of the skin which she always wore, and that she was so dirty and unpleasant that no
one took any notice of her, or even spoke to her; she had just been taken out of pity to look
after the geese.

The Prince, though little satisfied by this information, saw that these dense people knew no
more, and that it was useless to question them. So he returned to the palace of the King his
father, beyond words in love, having continually before his eyes the beautiful image of the
goddess whom he had seen through the keyhole. He was full of regret that he had not knocked
at the door, and promised himself that he would not fail to do so next time. But the fervency
of his love caused him such great agitation that the same night he was seized by a terrible
fever, and was soon at death's door. The Queen, who had no other child, was in despair because
all remedies proved useless. In vain she promised great rewards to the doctors; though they
exerted all their skill, nothing would cure the Prince. At last they decided that some great
sorrow had caused this terrible fever. They told the Queen, who, full of tenderness for her
son, went to him and begged him to tell her his trouble. She declared that even if it was a
matter of giving him the crown, his father would yield the throne to him without regret; or
if he desired some Princess, even though there should be war with the King her father and their
subjects should, with reason, complain, all should be sacrificed to obtain what he wished.
She implored him with tears not to die, since their life depended on his. The Queen did not
finish this touching discourse without moving the Prince to tears.

"Madam," he said at last, in a very feeble voice, "I am not so base that I desire the crown
of my father, rather may Heaven grant him life for many years, and that I may always be the
most faithful and the most respectful of his subjects! As to the Princesses that you speak
of, I have never yet thought of marriage, and you well know that, subject as I am to your wishes,
I shall obey you always, even though it be painful to me."

"Ah! my son," replied the Queen, "we will spare nothing to save your life. But, my dear child,
save mine and that of the King your father by telling me what you desire, and be assured that
you shall have it."

"Well, Madam," he said, "since you would have me tell you my thought, I obey you. It would
indeed be a sin to place in danger two lives so dear to me. Know, my mother, that I wish Donkey-skin
to make me a cake, and to have it brought to me when it is ready."

The Queen, astonished at this strange name, asked who Donkey-skin might be.

"It is, Madam," replied one of her officers who had by chance seen this girl, "It is the most
ugly creature imaginable after the wolf, a slut who lodges at your farm, and minds your geese."

"It matters not," said the Queen; "my son, on his way home from the chase, has perchance eaten
of her cakes; it is a whim such as those who are sick do sometimes have. In a word, I wish
that Donkey-skin, since Donkey-skin it is, make him presently a cake."

A messenger ran to the farm and told Donkey-skin that she was to make a cake for the Prince
as well as she possibly could. Now, some believe that Donkey-skin had been aware of the Prince
in her heart at the moment when he had put his eye to the keyhole; and then, looking from her
little window, she had seen him, so young, so handsome, and so shapely, that the remembrance
of him had remained, and that often the thought of him had cost her some sighs. Be that as
it may, Donkey-skin, either having seen him, or having heard him spoken of with praise, was
overjoyed to think that she might become known to him. She shut herself in her little room,
threw off the ugly skin, bathed her face and hands, arranged her hair, put on a beautiful corsage
of bright silver, and an equally beautiful petticoat, and then set herself to make the much
desired cake. She took the finest flour, and newest eggs and freshest butter, and while she
was working them, whether by design or no, a ring which she had on her finger fell into the
cake and was mixed in it. When the cooking was done she muffled herself in her horrible skin
and gave the cake to the messenger, asking him for news of the Prince; but the man would not
deign to reply, and without a word ran quickly back to the palace.

The Prince took the cake greedily from the man's hands, and ate it with such voracity that
the doctors who were present did not fail to say that this haste was not a good sign. Indeed,
the Prince came near to being choked by the ring, which he nearly swallowed, in one of the
pieces of cake. But he drew it cleverly from his mouth, and his desire for the cake was forgotten
as he examined the fine emerald set in a gold keeper-ring, a ring so small that he knew it
could only be worn on the prettiest little finger in the world.

He kissed the ring a thousand times, put it under his pillow, and drew it out every moment
that he thought himself unobserved. The torment that he gave himself, planning how he might
see her to whom the ring belonged, not daring to believe that if he asked for Donkey-skin she
would be allowed to come, and not daring to speak of what he had seen through the keyhole for
fear that he would be laughed at for a dreamer, brought back the fever with great violence.
The doctors, not knowing what more to do, declared to the Queen that the Prince's malady was
love, whereupon the Queen and the disconsolate King ran to their son.

"My son, my dear son," cried the affected monarch, "tell us the name of her whom you desire:
we swear that we will give her to you. Even though she were the vilest of slaves."

The Queen embracing him, agreed with all that the King had said, and the Prince, moved by their
tears and caresses, said to them: "My father and my mother, I in no way desire to make a marriage
which is displeasing to you." And drawing the emerald from under his pillow he added: "To prove
the truth of this, I desire to marry her to whom this ring belongs. It is not likely that she
who owns so pretty a ring is a rustic or a peasant."

The King and the Queen took the ring, examined it with great curiosity, and agreed with the
Prince that it could only belong to the daughter of a good house. Then the King, having embraced
his son, and entreated him to get well, went out. He ordered the drums and fifes and trumpets
to be sounded throughout the town, and the heralds to cry that she whose finger a certain ring
would fit should marry the heir to the throne.

First the Princesses arrived, then the duchesses, and the marquises, and the baronesses; but
though they did all they could to make their fingers small, none could put on the ring. So
the country girls had to be tried, but pretty though they all were, they all had fingers that
were too fat. The Prince, who was feeling better, made the trial himself. At last it was the
turn of the chamber-maids; but they succeeded no better. Then, when everyone else had tried,
the Prince asked for the kitchen-maids, the scullions, and the sheep-girls. They were all brought
to the palace, but their coarse red, short, fingers would hardly go through the golden hoop
as far as the nail.

"You have not brought that Donkey-skin, who made me the cake," said the Prince.

Everyone laughed and said, "No," so dirty and unpleasant was she.

"Let someone fetch her at once," said the King; "it shall not be said that I left out the lowliest."
And the servants ran laughing and mocking to find the goose-girl.

The Princess, who had heard the drums and the cries of the heralds, had no doubt that the ring
was the cause of this uproar. Now, she loved the Prince, and, as true love is timorous and
has no vanity, she was in perpetual fear that some other lady would be found to have a finger
as small as hers. Great, then, was her joy when the messengers came and knocked at her door.
Since she knew that they were seeking the owner of the right finger on which to set her ring,
some impulse had moved her to arrange her hair with great care, and to put on her beautiful
silver corsage, and the petticoat full of furbelows and silver lace studded with emeralds.
At the first knock she quickly covered her finery with the donkey-skin and opened the door.
The visitors, in derision, told her that the King had sent for her in order to marry her to
his son. Then with loud peals of laughter they led her to the Prince, who was astonished at
the garb of this girl, and dared not believe that it was she whom he had seen so majestic and
so beautiful. Sad and confounded, he said, "Is it you who lodge at the bottom of that dark
alley in the third yard of the farm?"

"Yes, your Highness," she replied.

"Show me your hand," said the Prince trembling, and heaving a deep sigh.

Imagine how astonished everyone was! The King and the Queen, the chamberlains and all the courtiers
were dumb-founded, when from beneath that black and dirty skin came a delicate little white
and rose-pink hand, and the ring slipped without difficulty on to the prettiest little finger
in the world. Then, by a little movement which the Princess made, the skin fell from her shoulders
and so enchanting was her guise, that the Prince, weak though he was, fell on his knees and
held her so closely that she blushed. But that was scarcely noticed, for the King and Queen
came to embrace her heartily, and to ask her if she would marry their son. The Princess, confused
by all these caresses and by the love of the handsome young Prince, was about to thank them
when suddenly the ceiling opened, and the Lilac-fairy descended in a chariot made of the branches
and flowers from which she took her name, and, with great charm, told the Princess's story.
The King and Queen, overjoyed to know that Donkey-skin was a great Princess redoubled their
caresses, but the Prince was even more sensible of her virtue, and his love increased as the
Fairy unfolded her tale. His impatience to marry her, indeed, was so great that he could scarcely
allow time for the necessary preparations for the grand wedding which was their due. The King
and Queen, now entirely devoted to their daughter-in-law, overwhelmed her with affection. She
had declared that she could not marry the Prince without the consent of the King her father,
so, he was the first to whom an invitation to the wedding was sent; he was not, however, told
the name of the bride. The Lilac-fairy, who, as was right, presided over all, had recommended
this course to prevent trouble. Kings came from all the countries round, some in sedan-chairs,
others in beautiful carriages; those who came from the most distant countries rode on elephants
and tigers and eagles. But the most magnificent and most glorious of all was the father of
the Princess. He had happily recovered his reason, and had married a Queen who was a widow
and very beautiful, but by whom he had no child. The Princess ran to him, and he recognised
her at once and embraced her with great tenderness before she had time to throw herself on
her knees. The King and Queen presented their son to him, and the happiness of all was complete.
The nuptials were celebrated with all imaginable pomp, but the young couple were hardly aware
of the ceremony, so wrapped up were they in one another.

In spite of the protests of the noble-hearted young man, the Prince's father caused his son
to be crowned the same day, and kissing his hand, placed him on the throne.

The celebrations of this illustrious marriage lasted nearly three months, but the love of the
two young people would have endured for more than a hundred years, had they out-lived that
age, so great was their affection for one another.

The Moral

    It scarce may be believed,
    This tale of Donkey-skin;
    But laughing children in the home;
    Yea, mothers, and grandmothers too,
    Are little moved by facts!
    By them 'twill be received.

       *       *       *       *       *

Uniform with this Volume

THE YEAR'S AT THE SPRING

An Anthology of Recent Poetry. Selected by L. D'O. WALTERS. With Twelve Plates in Colour and
Twelve in Black and White and many Decorations by HARRY CLARKE.

