"Well, well," said his wife, "that was good. I should have done the same. Thanks for that!
now I shall have meat in the house to put before folk when they come to see me. What could
we do with a horse? People would only have said that we had got too proud to walk to church.
Go along, children, and put the pig in the sty."

"But I have not got the pig either," said Gudbrand. "When I had gone on a bit further I exchanged
it for a milch goat."

"Bless me," said the wife, "you do everything well! When I think of it, what could we have
done with a pig? Folk would only have said we eat up all we had. Now we have a goat we shall
have milk and cheese, and we shall have the goat too. Run, children, and put up the goat."

"But I have not got the goat," said Gudbrand. "I went on a bit, and exchanged it for a fine sheep."

"Well," said the wife, "you have done just what I should have wished--just as if I had done
it myself. What did we want a goat for? I should have had to go over hill and dale after it.
Now we have a sheep I shall have wool and clothes in the house, and food as well. Go, children,
and put up the sheep."

"But I have not got the sheep either," said Gudbrand. "I went on a while, and then I exchanged
it for a goose."

"You shall have thanks for that," said the wife, "many thanks! What would we have done with
a sheep? I have no spinning-wheel nor distaff, and I should not care to bother about making
clothes. We can buy clothes, as we have always done. Now we shall have roast goose, which I
have so often wished for, and I shall be able to stuff my little pillow with the down. Go and
bring in the goose, children."

"But," said Gudbrand, "I have not got the goose either. When I had gone a bit further I gave
it in exchange for a cock."

"Heaven knows," said his wife, "how you thought all this out so well! It is just what I should
have done myself. A cock! why it is just the same as if you had bought an eight-day clock,
for the cock crows at four o'clock every morning, so we shall be able to get up in good time.
What could we have done with a goose? I don't know how to cook it, and I can stuff my pillow
with moss. Run and fetch the cock in, children."

"But," said Gudbrand, "I have not got the cock either. When I had gone a bit further I got
hungry, and so I sold the cock for twelve shillings so that I might live."

"Thank God you did so," said his wife; "whatever you do you do it just as I should have wished.
What could we have done with a cock? We are our own masters, and can lie in bed in the morning
as late as we please. Thank Heaven you have come back again safe. You do everything so well
that we can well spare the cock, the goose, the pig, and the cow."

Then Gudbrand opened the door.

"Have I won the hundred dollars?" said he, and the neighbour was obliged to own that he had.

THE DWARF-SWORD TIRFING.

Suaforlami, the second in descent from Odin, was king over Gardarike (Russia). One day he rode
a-hunting, and sought long after a hart, but could not find one the whole day. When the sun
was setting, he found himself plunged so deep in the forest that he knew not where he was.
On his right hand he saw a hill, and before it he saw two dwarfs. He drew his sword against
them, and cut off their retreat by getting between them and the rock. They offered him ransom
for their lives, and he asked them their names, and they said that one of them was called Dyren
and the other Dualin. Then he knew that they were the most ingenious and the most expert of
all the dwarfs, and he therefore demanded that they should make for him a sword, the best that
they could form. Its hilt was to be of gold, and its belt of the same metal. He moreover commanded
that the sword should never miss a blow, should never rust, that it should cut through iron
and stone as through a garment, and that it should always be victorious in war and in single
combat. On these conditions he granted the dwarfs their lives.

At the time appointed he came, and the dwarfs appearing, they gave him the sword. When Dualin
stood at the door, he said--

"This sword shall be the bane of a man every time it is drawn, and with it shall be perpetrated
three of the greatest atrocities, and it will also prove thy bane."

Suaforlami, when he heard that, struck at the dwarf, so that the blade of the sword penetrated
the solid rock. Thus Suaforlami became possessed of this sword, and he called it Tirfing. He
bore it in war and in single combat, and with it he slew the giant Thiasse, whose daughter
Fridur he took.

Suaforlami was soon after slain by the Berserker Andgrim, who then became master of the sword.
When the twelve sons of Andgrim were to fight with Hialmar and Oddur for Ingaborg, the beautiful
daughter of King Inges, Angantyr bore the dangerous Tirfing, but all the brethren were slain
in the combat, and were buried with their arms.

Angantyr left an only daughter, Hervor, who, when she grew up, dressed herself in man's attire,
and took the name of Hervardar, and joined a party of Vikinger, or pirates. Knowing that Tirfing
lay buried with her father, she determined to awaken the dead, and obtain the charmed blade.
She landed alone, in the evening, on the Island of Sams, where her father and uncles lay in
their sepulchral mounds, and ascending by night to their tombs, that were enveloped in flame,
she, by the force of entreaty, obtained from the reluctant Angantyr the formidable Tirfing.

Hervor proceeded to the court of King Gudmund, and there one day, as she was playing at tables
with the king, one of the servants chanced to take up and draw Tirfing, which shone like a
sunbeam. But Tirfing was never to see the light but for the bane of men, and Hervor, by a sudden
impulse, sprang from her seat, snatched the sword, and struck off the head of the unfortunate man.

After this she returned to the house of her grandfather, Jarl Biartmar, where she resumed her
female attire, and was married to Haufud, the son of King Gudmund. She bore him two sons, Angantyr
and Heidreker; the former of a mild and gentle disposition, the latter violent and fierce.
Haufud would not permit Heidreker to remain at his court, and as he was departing, his mother,
among other gifts, presented him with Tirfing.

His brother accompanied him out of the castle. Before they parted, Heidreker drew out his sword
to look at and admire it, but scarcely did the rays of light fall on the magic blade, when
the Berserker rage came on its owner, and he slew his gentle brother.

After this he joined a body of Vikinger, and became so distinguished that King Harold, for
the aid he lent him, gave him his daughter Helga in marriage. But it was the destiny of Tirfing
to commit crime, and Harold fell by the sword of his son-in-law. Heidreker was afterwards in
Russia, and the son of the king was his foster-son. One day as they were out hunting, Heidreker
and his foster-son happened to be separated from the rest of the party, when a wild boar appeared
before them.

Heidreker ran at him with his spear, but the beast caught it in his mouth and broke it across.
Then he alighted and drew Tirfing, and killed the boar. On looking round him, he saw no one
but his foster-son, and Tirfing could only be appeased with warm human blood, so Heidreker
slew the poor youth.

In the end Heidreker was murdered in his bed by his Scottish slaves, who carried off Tirfing.
His son Angantyr, who succeeded him, discovered the thieves and put them to death, and recovered
the magic blade. He made great slaughter in battle against the Huns, but among the slain was
discovered his own brother, Landur.

So ends the history of the Dwarf-Sword Tirfing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed by T. and A. Constable, Printers to Her Majesty, at the Edinburgh University Press.