We were still bent upon army inspection, and with this purpose went back from Cairo to Louisville,
in Kentucky.  I had passed through Louisville before, as told in my last chapter, but had not
gone south from Louisville toward the Green River, and had seen nothing of General Buell's
soldiers.  I should have mentioned before that when we were at St. Louis, we asked General
Halleck, the officer in command of the Northern army of Missouri, whether he could allow us
to pass through his lines to the South.  This he assured us he was forbidden to do, at the
same time offering us every facility in his power for such an expedition if we could obtain
the consent of Mr. Seward, who at that time had apparently succeeded in engrossing into his
own hands, for the moment, supreme authority in all matters of government.  Before leaving
Washington we had determined not to ask Mr. Seward, having but little hope of obtaining his
permission, and being unwilling to encounter his refusal.  Before going to General Halleck,
we had considered the question of visiting the land of "Dixie" without permission from any
of the men in authority.  I ascertained that this might easily have been done from Kentucky
to Tennessee, but that it could only be done on foot.  There are very few available roads running
North and South through these States. The railways came before roads; and even where the railways
are far asunder, almost all the traffic of the country takes itself to them, preferring a long
circuitous conveyance with steam, to short distances without.  Consequently such roads as there
are run laterally to the railways, meeting them at this point or that, and thus maintaining
the communication of the country.  Now the railways were of course in the hands of the armies.
The few direct roads leading from North to South were in the same condition, and the by- roads
were impassable from mud.  The frontier of the North, therefore, though very extended, was
not very easily to be passed, unless, as I have said before, by men on foot.  For myself I
confess that I was anxious to go South; but not to do so without my coats and trowsers, or
shirts and pocket-handkerchiefs.  The readiest way of getting across the line--and the way
which was, I believe, the most frequently used--was from below Baltimore, in Maryland, by boat
across the Potomac.  But in this there was a considerable danger of being taken, and I had
no desire to become a state-prisoner in the hands of Mr. Seward under circumstances which would
have justified our Minister in asking for my release only as a matter of favor. Therefore,
when at St. Louis, I gave up all hopes of seeing "Dixie" during my present stay in America.
I presume it to be generally known that Dixie is the negro's heaven, and that the Southern
slave States, in which it is presumed that they have found a Paradise, have since the beginning
of the war been so named.

We remained a few days at Louisville, and were greatly struck with the natural beauty of the
country around it.  Indeed, as far as I was enabled to see, Kentucky has superior attractions,
as a place of rural residence for an English gentleman, to any other State in the Union.  There
is nothing of landscape there equal to the banks of the Upper Mississippi, or to some parts
of the Hudson River.  It has none of the wild grandeur of the White Mountains of New Hampshire,
nor does it break itself into valleys equal to those of the Alleghanies, in Pennsylvania. 
But all those are beauties for the tourist rather than for the resident.  In Kentucky the land
lays in knolls and soft sloping hills.  The trees stand apart, forming forest openings.  The
herbage is rich, and the soil, though not fertile like the prairies of Illinois, or the river
bottoms of the Mississippi and its tributaries, is good, steadfast, wholesome farming ground.
It is a fine country for a resident gentleman farmer, and in its outward aspect reminds me
more of England in its rural aspects than any other State which I visited.  Round Louisville
there are beautiful sites for houses, of which advantage in some instances has been taken.
But, nevertheless, Louisville, though a well-built, handsome city, is not now a thriving city.
I liked it because the hotel was above par, and because the country round it was good for walking;
but it has not advanced as Cincinnati and St. Louis have advanced.  And yet its position on
the Ohio is favorable, and it is well circumstanced as regards the wants of its own State.
But it is not a free-soil city.  Nor, indeed, is St. Louis; but St. Louis is tending that way,
and has but little to do with the "domestic institution."  At the hotels in Cincinnati and
St. Louis you are served by white men, and are very badly served. At Louisville the ministration
is by black men, "bound to labor." The difference in the comfort is very great.  The white
servants are noisy, dirty, forgetful, indifferent, and sometimes impudent.  The negroes are
the very reverse of all this; you cannot hurry them; but in all other respects--and perhaps
even in that respect also--they are good servants.  This is the work for which they seem to
have been intended.  But nevertheless where they are, life and energy seem to languish, and
prosperity cannot make any true advance.  They are symbols of the luxury of the white men who
employ them, and as such are signs of decay and emblems of decreasing power.  They are good
laborers themselves, but their very presence makes labor dishonorable.  That Kentucky will
speedily rid herself of the institution, I believe firmly.  When she has so done, the commercial
city of that State may perhaps go ahead again like her sisters.

At this very time the Federal army was commencing that series of active movements in Kentucky,
and through Tennessee, which led to such important results, and gave to the North the first
solid victories which they had gained since the contest began.  On the nineteenth of January,
one wing of General Buell's army, under General Thomas, had defeated the secessionists near
Somerset, in the southeastern district of Kentucky, under General Zollicoffer, who was there
killed.  But in that action the attack was made by Zollicoffer and the secessionists.  When
we were at Louisville we heard of the success of that gun-boat expedition up the Tennessee
river by which Fort Henry was taken.  Fort Henry had been built by the Confederates on the
Tennessee, exactly on the confines of the States of Tennessee and Kentucky.  They had also
another fort, Fort Donelson, on the Cumberland River, which at that point runs parallel to
the Tennessee, and is there distant from it but a very few miles. Both these rivers run into
the Ohio.  Nashville, which is the capital of Tennessee, is higher up on the Cumberland; and
it was now intended to send the gun-boats down the Tennessee back into the Ohio, and thence
up the Cumberland, there to attack Fort Donelson, and afterward to assist General Buell's army
in making its way down to Nashville.  The gun-boats were attached to General Halleck's army,
and received their directions from St. Louis.  General Buell's headquarters were at Louisville,
and his advanced position was on the Green River, on the line of the railway from Louisville
to Nashville.  The secessionists had destroyed the railway bridge over the Green River, and
were now lying at Bowling Green, between the Green River and Nashville.  This place it was
understood that they had fortified.

Matters were in this position when we got a military pass to go down by the railway to the
army on the Green River, for the railway was open to no one without a military pass; and we
started, trusting that Providence would supply us with rations and quarters.  An officer attached
to General Buell's staff, with whom however our acquaintance was of the very slightest, had
telegraphed down to say that we were coming.  I cannot say that I expected much from the message,
seeing that it simply amounted to a very thin introduction to a general officer to whom we
were strangers even by name, from a gentleman to whom we had brought a note from another gentleman
whose acquaintance we had chanced to pick up on the road.  We manifestly had no right to expect
much; but to us, expecting very little, very much was given.  General Johnson was the officer
to whose care we were confided, he being a brigadier under General McCook, who commanded the
advance.  We were met by an aid-de-camp and saddle- horses, and soon found ourselves in the
general's tent, or rather in a shanty formed of solid upright wooden logs, driven into the
ground with the bark still on, and having the interstices filled in with clay.  This was roofed
with canvas, and altogether made a very eligible military residence.  The general slept in
a big box, about nine feet long and four broad, which occupied one end of the shanty, and he
seemed in all his fixings to be as comfortably put up as any gentleman might be when out on
such a picnic as this.  We arrived in time for dinner, which was brought in, table and all,
by two negroes.  The party was made up by a doctor, who carved, and two of the staff, and a
very nice dinner we had.  In half an hour we were intimate with the whole party, and as familiar
with the things around us as though we had been living in tents all our lives. Indeed, I had
by this time been so often in the tents of the Northern army, that I almost felt entitled to
make myself at home. It has seemed to me that an Englishman has always been made welcome in
these camps.  There has been and is at this moment a terribly bitter feeling among Americans
against England, and I have heard this expressed quite as loudly by men in the army as by civilians;
but I think I may say that this has never been brought to bear upon individual intercourse.
Certainly we have said some very sharp things of them--words which, whether true or false,
whether deserved or undeserved, must have been offensive to them.  I have known this feeling
of offense to amount almost to an agony of anger.  But nevertheless I have never seen any falling
off in the hospitality and courtesy generally shown by a civilized people to passing visitors,
I have argued the matter of England's course throughout the war, till I have been hoarse with
asseverating the rectitude of her conduct and her national unselfishness.  I have met very
strong opponents on the subject, and have been coerced into loud strains of voice; but I never
yet met one American who was personally uncivil to me as an Englishman, or who seemed to be
made personally angry by my remarks.  I found no coldness in that hospitality to which as a
stranger I was entitled, because of the national ill feeling which circumstances have engendered.
And while on this subject I will remark that, when traveling, I have found it expedient to
let those with whom I might chance to talk know at once that I was an Englishman.  In fault
of such knowledge things would be said which could not but be disagreeable to me; but not even
from any rough Western enthusiast in a railway carriage have I ever heard a word spoken insolently
to England, after I had made my nationality known. I have learned that Wellington was beaten
at Waterloo; that Lord Palmerston was so unpopular that he could not walk alone in the streets;
that the House of Commons was an acknowledged failure; that starvation was the normal condition
of the British people, and that the queen was a blood-thirsty tyrant.  But these assertions
were not made with the intention that they should be heard by an Englishman. To us as a nation
they are at the present moment unjust almost beyond belief; but I do not think that the feeling
has ever taken the guise of personal discourtesy.

We spent two days in the camp close upon the Green River, and I do not know that I enjoyed
any days of my trip more thoroughly than I did these.  In truth, for the last month since I
had left Washington, my life had not been one of enjoyment.  I had been rolling in mud and
had been damp with filth.  Camp Wood, as they called this military settlement on the Green
River, was also muddy; but we were excellently well mounted; the weather was very cold, but
peculiarly fine, and the soldiers around us, as far as we could judge, seemed to be better
off in all respects than those we had visited at St. Louis, at Rolla, or at Cairo.  They were
all in tents, and seemed to be light-spirited and happy.  Their rations were excellent; but
so much may, I think, be said of the whole Northern army, from Alexandria on the Potomac to
Springfield in the west of Missouri.  There was very little illness at that time in the camp
in Kentucky, and the reports made to us led us to think that on the whole this had been the
most healthy division of the army.  The men, moreover, were less muddy than their brethren
either east or west of them--at any rate this may be said of them as regards the infantry.

But perhaps the greatest charm of the place to me was the beauty of the scenery.  The Green
River at this spot is as picturesque a stream as I ever remember to have seen in such a country.
It lies low down between high banks, and curves hither and thither, never keeping a straight
line.  Its banks are wooded; but not, as is so common in America, by continuous, stunted, uninteresting
forest, but by large single trees standing on small patches of meadow by the water side, with
the high banks rising over them, with glades through them open for the horseman.  The rides
here in summer must be very lovely.  Even in winter they were so, and made me in love with
the place in spite of that brown, dull, barren aspect which the presence of an army always
creates.  I have said that the railway bridge which crossed the Green River at this spot had
been destroyed by the secessionists.  This had been done effectually as regarded the passage
of trains, but only in part as regarded the absolute fabric of the bridge.  It had been, and
still was when I saw it, a beautifully light construction, made of iron and supported over
a valley, rather than over a river, on tall stone piers.  One of these piers had been blown
up; but when we were there, the bridge had been repaired with beams and wooden shafts.  This
had just been completed, and an engine had passed over it.  I must confess that it looked to
me most perilously insecure; but the eye uneducated in such mysteries is a bad judge of engineering
work.  I passed with a horse backward and forward on it, and it did not tumble down then; but
I confess that on the first attempt I was glad enough to lead the horse by the bridle.

That bridge was certainly a beautiful fabric, and built in a most lovely spot.  Immediately
under it there was also a pontoon bridge. The tents of General McCook's division were immediately
at the northern end of it, and the whole place was alive with soldiers, nailing down planks,
pulling up temporary rails at each side, carrying over straw for the horses, and preparing
for the general advance of the troops.  It was a glorious day.  There had been heavy frost
at night; but the air was dry, and the sun though cold was bright.  I do not know when I saw
a prettier picture.  It would perhaps have been nothing without the loveliness of the river
scenery; but the winding of the stream at the spot, the sharp wooded hills on each side, the
forest openings, and the busy, eager, strange life together filled the place with no common
interest.  The officers of the army at the spot spoke with bitterest condemnation of the vandalism
of their enemy in destroying the bridge.  The justice of the indignation I ventured very strongly
to question. "Surely you would have destroyed their bridge?" I said.  "But they are rebels,"
was the answer.  It has been so throughout the contest; and the same argument has been held
by soldiers and by non-soldiers-- by women and by men.  "Grant that they are rebels," I have
answered.  "But when rebels fight they cannot be expected to be more scrupulous in their mode
of doing so than their enemies who are not rebels."  The whole population of the North has
from the beginning of this war considered themselves entitled to all the privileges of belligerents;
but have called their enemies Goths and Vandals for even claiming those privileges for themselves.
The same feeling was at the bottom of their animosity against England.  Because the South was
in rebellion, England should have consented to allow the North to assume all the rights of
a belligerent, and should have denied all those rights to the South!  Nobody has seemed to
understand that any privilege which a belligerent can claim must depend on the very fact of
his being in encounter with some other party having the same privilege.  Our press has animadverted
very strongly on the States government for the apparent untruthfulness of their arguments on
this matter; but I profess that I believe that Mr. Seward and his colleagues--and not they
only but the whole nation--have so thoroughly deceived themselves on this subject, have so
talked and speechified themselves into a misunderstanding of the matter, that they have taught
themselves to think that the men of the South could be entitled to no consideration from any
quarter.  To have rebelled against the stars and stripes seems to a Northern man to be a crime
putting the criminal altogether out of all courts--a crime which should have armed the hands
of all men against him, as the hands of all men are armed at a dog that is mad, or a tiger
that has escaped from its keeper.  It is singular that such a people, a people that has founded
itself on rebellion, should have such a horror of rebellion; but, as far as my observation
may have enabled me to read their feelings rightly, I do believe that it has been as sincere
as it is irrational.

We were out riding early on the morning of the second day of our sojourn in the camp, and met
the division of General Mitchell, a detachment of General Buell's army, which had been in camp
between the Green River and Louisville, going forward to the bridge which was then being prepared
for their passage.  This division consisted of about 12,000 men, and the road was crowded throughout
the whole day with them and their wagons.  We first passed a regiment of cavalry, which appeared
to be endless.  Their cavalry regiments are, in general, more numerous than those of the infantry,
and on this occasion we saw, I believe, about 1200 men pass by us.  Their horses were strong
and serviceable, and the men were stout and in good health; but the general appearance of everything
about them was rough and dirty.  The American cavalry have always looked to me like brigands.
A party of them would, I think, make a better picture than an equal number of our dragoons;
but if they are to be regarded in any other view than that of the picturesque, it does not
seem to me that they have been got up successfully.  On this occasion they were forming themselves
into a picture for my behoof, and as the picture was, as a picture, very good, I at least have
no reason to complain.

We were taken to see one German regiment, a regiment of which all the privates were German
and all the officers save one--I think the surgeon.  We saw the men in their tents, and the
food which they eat, and were disposed to think that hitherto things were going well with them.
In the evening the colonel and lieutenant-colonel, both of whom had been in the Prussian service,
if I remember rightly, came up to the general's quarters, and we spent the evening together
in smoking cigars and discussing slavery round the stove.  I shall never forget that night,
or the vehement abolition enthusiasm of the two German colonels.  Our host had told us that
he was a slaveowner; and as our wants were supplied by two sable ministers, I concluded that
he had brought with him a portion of his domestic institution. Under such circumstances I myself
should have avoided such a subject, having been taught to believe that Southern gentlemen did
not generally take delight in open discussions on the subject.  But had we been arguing the
question of the population of the planet Jupiter, or the final possibility of the transmutation
of metals, the matter could not have been handled with less personal feeling. The Germans,
however, spoke the sentiments of all the Germans of the Western States--that is, of all the
Protestant Germans, and to them is confined the political influence held by the German immigrants.
They all regard slavery as an evil, holding on the matter opinions quite as strong as ours
have ever been.  And they argue that as slavery is an evil, it should therefore be abolished
at once.  Their opinions are as strong as ours have ever been, and they have not had our West
Indian experience.  Any one desiring to understand the present political position of the States
should realize the fact of the present German influence on political questions.  Many say that
the present President was returned by German voters.  In one sense this is true, for he certainly
could not have been returned without them; but for them, or for their assistance, Mr. Breckinridge
would have been President, and this civil war would not have come to pass. As abolitionists
they are much more powerful than the Republicans of New England, and also more in earnest.
In New England the matter is discussed politically; in the great Western towns, where the Germans
congregate by thousands, they profess to view it philosophically.  A man, as a man, is entitled
to freedom.  That is their argument, and it is a very old one.  When you ask them what they
would propose to do with 4,000,000 of enfranchised slaves and with their ruined masters, how
they would manage the affairs of those 12,000,000 of people, all whose wealth and work and
very life have hitherto been hinged and hung upon slavery, they again ask you whether slavery
is not in itself bad, and whether anything acknowledged to be bad should be allowed to remain.

But the American Germans are in earnest, and I am strongly of opinion that they will so far
have their way, that the country which for the future will be their country will exist without
the taint of slavery.  In the Northern nationality, which will reform itself after this war
is over, there will, I think, be no slave State. That final battle of abolition will have to
be fought among a people apart, and I must fear that while it lasts their national prosperity
will not be great.

CHAPTER VII.

THE ARMY OF THE NORTH.

I trust that it may not be thought that in this chapter I am going to take upon myself the
duties of a military critic.  I am well aware that I have no capacity for such a task, and
that my opinion on such matters would be worth nothing.  But it is impossible to write of the
American States as they were when I visited them, and to leave that subject of the American
army untouched.  It was all but impossible to remain for some months in the Northern States
without visiting the army.  It was impossible to join in any conversation in the States without
talking about the army.  It was impossible to make inquiry as to the present and future condition
of the people without basing such inquiries more or less upon the doings of the army.  If a
stranger visit Manchester with the object of seeing what sort of place Manchester is, he must
visit the cotton mills and printing establishments, though he may have no taste for cotton
and no knowledge on the subject of calicoes.  Under pressure of this kind I have gone about
from one army to another, looking at the drilling of regiments, of the manoeuvres of cavalry,
at the practice of artillery, and at the inner life of the camps.  I do not feel that I am
in any degree more fitted to take the command of a campaign than I was before I began, or even
more fitted to say who can and who cannot do so.  But I have obtained on my own mind's eye
a tolerably clear impression of the outward appearance of the Northern army; I have endeavored
to learn something of the manner in which it was brought together, and of its cost as it now
stands; and I have learned--as any man in the States may learn, without much trouble or personal
investigation--how terrible has been the peculation of the contractors and officers by whom
that army has been supplied.  Of these things, writing of the States at this moment, I must
say something.  In what I shall say as to that matter of peculation, I trust that I may be
believed to have spoken without personal ill feeling or individual malice.

While I was traveling in the States of New England and in the Northwest, I came across various
camps at which young regiments were being drilled and new regiments were being formed.  These
lay in our way as we made our journeys, and, therefore, we visited them; but they were not
objects of any very great interest.  The men had not acquired even any pretense of soldier-like
bearing.  The officers for the most part had only just been selected, having hardly as yet
left their civil occupations, and anything like criticism was disarmed by the very nature of
the movement which had called the men together.  I then thought, as I still think, that the
men themselves were actuated by proper motives, and often by very high motives, in joining
the regiments.  No doubt they looked to the pay offered.  It is not often that men are able
to devote themselves to patriotism without any reference to their personal circumstances. 
A man has got before him the necessity of earning his bread, and very frequently the necessity
of earning the bread of others besides himself.  This comes before him not only as his first
duty, but as the very law of his existence.  His wages are his life, and when he proposes to
himself to serve his country, that subject of payment comes uppermost as it does when he proposes
to serve any other master.  But the wages given, though very high in comparison with those
of any other army, have not been of a nature to draw together from their distant homes, at
so short a notice, so vast a cloud of men, had no other influence been at work.  As far as
I can learn, the average rate of wages in the country since the war began has been about 65
cents a day over and beyond the workman's diet.  I feel convinced that I am putting this somewhat
too low, taking the average of all the markets from which the labor has been withdrawn. In
large cities labor has been much higher than this, and a considerable proportion of the army
has been taken from large cities.  But, taking 65 cents a day as the average, labor has been
worth about 17 dollars a month over and above the laborer's diet. In the army the soldier receives
13 dollars a month, and also receives his diet and clothes; in addition to this, in many States,
6 dollars a month have been paid by the State to the wives and families of those soldiers who
have left wives and families in the States behind them.  Thus for the married men the wages
given by the army have been 2 dollars a month, or less than 5l. a year, more than his earnings
at home, and for the unmarried man they have been 4 dollars a month, or less than 10l. a year,
below his earnings at home.  But the army also gives clothing to the extent of 3 dollars a
month.  This would place the unmarried soldier, in a pecuniary point of view, worse off by
one dollar a month, or 2l. l0s. a year, than he would have been at home; and would give the
married man 5 dollars a month, or 12l. a year, more than his ordinary wages, for absenting
himself from his family.  I cannot think, therefore, that the pecuniary attractions have been
very great.

Our soldiers in England enlist at wages which are about one-half that paid in the ordinary
labor market to the class from whence they come.  But labor in England is uncertain, whereas
in the States it is certain.  In England the soldier with his shilling gets better food than
the laborer with his two shillings; and the Englishman has no objection to the rigidity of
that discipline which is so distasteful to an American.  Moreover, who in England ever dreamed
of raising 600,000 new troops in six months, out of a population of thirty million?  But this
has been done in the Northern States out of a population of eighteen million.  If England were
invaded, Englishmen would come forward in the same way, actuated, as I believe, by the same
high motives.  My object here is simply to show that the American soldiers have not been drawn
together by the prospect of high wages, as has been often said since the war began.

They who inquire closely into the matter will find that hundreds and thousands have joined
the army as privates, who in doing so have abandoned all their best worldly prospects, and
have consented to begin the game of life again, believing that their duty to their country
has now required their services.  The fact has been that in the different States a spirit of
rivalry has been excited.  Indiana has endeavored to show that she was as forward as Illinois;
Pennsylvania has been unwilling to lag behind New York; Massachusetts, who has always struggled
to be foremost in peace, has desired to boast that she was first in war also; the smaller States
have resolved to make their names heard, and those which at first were backward in sending
troops have been shamed into greater earnestness by the public voice.  There has been a general
feeling throughout the people that the thing should be done--that the rebellion must be put
down, and that it must be put down by arms. Young men have been ashamed to remain behind; and
their elders, acting under that glow of patriotism which so often warms the hearts of free
men, but which, perhaps, does not often remain there long in all its heat, have left their
wives and have gone also.  It may be true that the voice of the majority has been coercive
on many--that men have enlisted partly because the public voice required it of them, and not
entirely through the promptings of individual spirit. Such public voice in America is very
potent; but it is not, I think, true that the army has been gathered together by the hope of
high wages.

Such was my opinion of the men when I saw them from State to State clustering into their new
regiments.  They did not look like soldiers; but I regarded them as men earnestly intent on
a work which they believed to be right.  Afterward when I saw them in their camps, amid all
the pomps and circumstances of glorious war, positively converted into troops, armed with real
rifles and doing actual military service, I believed the same of them--but cannot say that
I then liked them so well.  Good motives had brought them there.  They were the same men, or
men of the same class, that I had seen before.  They were doing just that which I knew they
would have to do.  But still I found that the more I saw of them, the more I lost of that respect
for them which I had once felt.  I think it was their dirt that chiefly operated upon me. 
Then, too, they had hitherto done nothing, and they seemed to be so terribly intent upon their
rations!  The great boast of this army was that they eat meat twice a day, and that their daily
supply of bread was more than they could consume.

When I had been two or three weeks in Washington, I went over to the army of the Potomac and
spent a few days with some of the officers. I had on previous occasions ridden about the camps,
and had seen a review at which General McClellan trotted up and down the lines with all his
numerous staff at his heels.  I have always believed reviews to be absurdly useless as regards
the purpose for which they are avowedly got up--that, namely, of military inspection.  And
I believed this especially of this review.  I do not believe that any commander-in-chief ever
learns much as to the excellence or deficiencies of his troops by watching their manoeuvres
on a vast open space; but I felt sure that General McClellan had learned nothing on this occasion.
If before his review he did not know whether his men were good as soldiers, he did not possess
any such knowledge after the review.  If the matter may be regarded as a review of the general--if
the object was to show him off to the men, that they might know how well he rode, and how grand
he looked with his staff of forty or fifty officers at his heels, then this review must be
considered as satisfactory.  General McClellan does ride very well.  So much I learned, and
no more.

It was necessary to have a pass for crossing the Potomac either from one side or from the other,
and such a pass I procured from a friend in the War-office, good for the whole period of my
sojourn in Washington.  The wording of the pass was more than ordinarily long, as it recommended
me to the special courtesy of all whom I might encounter; but in this respect it was injurious
to me rather than otherwise, as every picket by whom I was stopped found it necessary to read
it to the end.  The paper was almost invariably returned to me without a word; but the musket
which was not unfrequently kept extended across my horse's nose by the reader's comrade would
be withdrawn, and then I would ride on to the next barrier.  It seemed to me that these passes
were so numerous and were signed by so many officers that there could have been no risk in
forging them.  The army of the Potomac, into which they admitted the bearer, lay in quarters
which were extended over a length of twenty miles up and down on the Virginian side of the
river, and the river could be traversed at five different places.  Crowds of men and women
were going over daily, and no doubt all the visitors who so went with innocent purposes were
provided with proper passports; but any whose purposes were not innocent, and who were not
so provided, could have passed the pickets with counterfeited orders.  This, I have little
doubt, was done daily.  Washington was full of secessionists, and every movement of the Federal
army was communicated to the Confederates at Richmond, at which city was now established the
Congress and headquarters of the Confederacy.  But no such tidings of the Confederate army
reached those in command at Washington. There were many circumstances in the contest which
led to this result, and I do not think that General McClellan had any power to prevent it.
His system of passes certainly did not do so.

I never could learn from any one what was the true number of this army on the Potomac.  I have
been informed by those who professed to know that it contained over 200,000 men, and by others
who also professed to know, that it did not contain 100,000.  To me the soldiers seemed to
be innumerable, hanging like locusts over the whole country--a swarm desolating everything
around them.  Those pomps and circumstances are not glorious in my eyes.  They affect me with
a melancholy which I cannot avoid.  Soldiers gathered together in a camp are uncouth and ugly
when they are idle; and when they are at work their work is worse than idleness.  When I have
seen a thousand men together, moving their feet hither at one sound and thither at another,
throwing their muskets about awkwardly, prodding at the air with their bayonets, trotting twenty
paces here and backing ten paces there, wheeling round in uneven lines, and looking, as they
did so, miserably conscious of the absurdity of their own performances, I have always been
inclined to think how little the world can have advanced in civilization, while grown-up men
are still forced to spend their days in such grotesque performances.  Those to whom the "pomps
and circumstances" are dear-- nay, those by whom they are considered simply necessary--will
be able to confute me by a thousand arguments.  I readily own myself confuted.  There must
be soldiers, and soldiers must be taught.  But not the less pitiful is it to see men of thirty
undergoing the goose-step, and tortured by orders as to the proper mode of handling a long
instrument which is half gun and half spear.  In the days of Hector and Ajax, the thing was
done in a more picturesque manner; and the songs of battle should, I think, be confined to
those ages.

The ground occupied by the divisions on the farther or southwestern side of the Potomac was,
as I have said, about twenty miles in length and perhaps seven in breadth.  Through the whole
of this district the soldiers were everywhere.  The tents of the various brigades were clustered
together in streets, the regiments being divided; and the divisions combining the brigades
lay apart at some distance from each other.  But everywhere, at all points, there were some
signs of military life.  The roads were continually thronged with wagons, and tracks were opened
for horses wherever a shorter way might thus be made available.  On every side the trees were
falling or had fallen.  In some places whole woods had been felled with the express purpose
of rendering the ground impracticable for troops; and firs and pines lay one over the other,
still covered with their dark, rough foliage, as though a mighty forest had grown there along
the ground, without any power to raise itself toward the heavens.  In other places the trees
had been chopped off from their trunks about a yard from the ground, so that the soldier who
cut it should have no trouble in stooping, and the tops had been dragged away for firewood
or for the erection of screens against the wind. Here and there, in solitary places, there
were outlying tents, looking as though each belonged to some military recluse; and in the neighborhood
of every division was to be found a photographing establishment upon wheels, in order that
the men might send home to their sweethearts pictures of themselves in their martial costumes.

I wandered about through these camps both on foot and on horseback day after day; and every
now and then I would come upon a farm-house that was still occupied by its old inhabitants.
Many of such houses had been deserted, and were now held by the senior officers of the army;
but some of the old families remained, living in the midst of this scene of war in a condition
most forlorn.  As for any tillage of their land, that, under such circumstances, might be pronounced
as hopeless.  Nor could there exist encouragement for farm-work of any kind.  Fences had been
taken down and burned; the ground had been overrun in every direction.  The stock had of course
disappeared; it had not been stolen, but had been sold in a hurry for what under such circumstances
it might fetch.  What farmer could work or have any hope for his land in the middle of such
a crowd of soldiers?  But yet there were the families.  The women were in their houses, and
the children playing at their doors; and the men, with whom I sometimes spoke, would stand
around with their hands in their pockets.  They knew that they were ruined; they expected no
redress. In nine cases out of ten they were inimical in spirit to the soldiers around them.
And yet it seemed that their equanimity was never disturbed.  In a former chapter I have spoken
of a certain general--not a fighting general of the army, but a local farming general--who
spoke loudly, and with many curses, of the injury inflicted on him by the secessionists.  With
that exception I heard no loud complaint of personal suffering.  These Virginian farmers must
have been deprived of everything--of the very means of earning bread.  They still hold by their
houses, though they were in the very thick of the war, because there they had shelter for their
families, and elsewhere they might seek it in vain.  A man cannot move his wife and children
if he have no place to which to move them, even though his house be in the midst of disease,
of pestilence, or of battle.  So it was with them then, but it seemed as though they were already
used to it.

But there was a class of inhabitants in that same country to whom fate had been even more unkind
than to those whom I saw.  The lines of the Northern army extended perhaps seven or eight miles
from the Potomac; and the lines of the Confederate army were distant some four miles from those
of their enemies.  There was, therefore, an intervening space or strip of ground, about four
miles broad, which might be said to be no man's land.  It was no man's land as to military
possession, but it was still occupied by many of its old inhabitants.  These people were not
allowed to pass the lines either of one army or of the other; or if they did so pass, they
were not allowed to return to their homes.  To these homes they were forced to cling, and there
they remained.  They had no market; no shops at which to make purchases, even if they had money
to buy; no customers with whom to deal, even if they had produce to sell.  They had their cows,
if they could keep them from the Confederate soldiers, their pigs and their poultry; and on
them they were living--a most forlorn life.  Any advance made by either party must be over
their homesteads.  In the event of battle, they would be in the midst of it; and in the mean
time they could see no one, hear of nothing, go nowhither beyond the limits of that miserable
strip of ground!

The earth was hard with frost when I paid my visit to the camp, and the general appearance
of things around my friend's quarters was on that account cheerful enough.  It was the mud
which made things sad and wretched.  When the frost came it seemed as though the army had overcome
one of its worst enemies.  Unfortunately cold weather did not last long.  I have been told
in Washington that they rarely have had so open a season.  Soon after my departure that terrible
enemy the mud came back upon them; but during my stay the ground was hard and the weather very
sharp.  I slept in a tent, and managed to keep my body warm by an enormous overstructure of
blankets and coats; but I could not keep my head warm.  Throughout the night I had to go down
like a fish beneath the water for protection, and come up for air at intervals, half smothered.
I had a stove in my tent; but the heat of that, when lighted, was more terrible than the severity
of the frost.

The tents of the brigade with which I was staying had been pitched not without an eye to appearances.
They were placed in streets as it were, each street having its name, and between them screens
had been erected of fir poles and fir branches, so as to keep off the wind.  The outside boundaries
of the nearest regiment were ornamented with arches, crosses, and columns, constructed in the
same way; so that the quarters of the men were reached, as it were, through gateways.  The
whole thing was pretty enough; and while the ground was hard the camp was picturesque, and
a visit to it was not unpleasant.  But unfortunately the ground was in its nature soft and
deep, composed of red clay; and as the frost went and the wet weather came, mud became omnipotent
and destroyed all prettiness. And I found that the cold weather, let it be ever so cold, was
not severe upon the men.  It was wet which they feared and had cause to fear, both for themselves
and for their horses.  As to the horses, but few of them were protected by any shelter or covering
whatsoever.  Through both frost and wet they remained out, tied to the wheel of a wagon or
to some temporary rack at which they were fed.  In England we should imagine that any horse
so treated must perish; but here the animal seemed to stand it.  Many of them were miserable
enough in appearance, but nevertheless they did the work required of them.  I have observed
that horses throughout the States are treated in a hardier manner than is usually the case with us.

At the period of which I am speaking--January, 1862--the health of the army of the Potomac
was not as good as it had been, and was beginning to give way under the effects of the winter.
Measles had become very prevalent, and also small-pox, though not of a virulent description;
and men, in many instances, were sinking under fatigue. I was informed by various officers
that the Irish regiments were on the whole the most satisfactory.  Not that they made the best
soldiers, for it was asserted that they were worse, as soldiers, than the Americans or Germans;
not that they became more easily subject to rule, for it was asserted that they were unruly;
but because they were rarely ill.  Diseases which seized the American troops on all sides seemed
to spare them.  The mortality was not excessive, but the men became sick and ailing, and fell
under the doctor's hands.

Mr. Olmstead, whose name is well known in England as a writer on the Southern States, was at
this time secretary to a sanitary commission on the army, and published an abstract of the
results of the inquiries made, on which I believe perfect reliance may be placed. This inquiry
was extended to two hundred regiments, which were presumed to be included in the army of the
Potomac; but these regiments were not all located on the Virginian side of the river, and must
not therefore be taken as belonging exclusively to the divisions of which I have been speaking.
Mr. Olmstead says: "The health of our armies is evidently not above the average of armies in
the field.  The mortality of the army of the Potomac during the summer months averaged 3 1/2
per cent., and for the whole army it is stated at 5 per cent."  "Of the camps inspected, 5
per cent.," he says, "were in admirable order; 44 per cent. fairly clean and well policed.
The condition of 26 per cent. was negligent and slovenly, and of 24 per cent. decidedly bad,
filthy, and dangerous."  Thus 50 per cent. were either negligent and slovenly, or filthy and
dangerous.  I wonder what the report would have been had Camp Benton, at St. Louis, been surveyed!
"In about 80 per cent. of the regiments the officers claimed to give systematic attention to
the cleanliness of the men; but it is remarked that they rarely enforced the washing of the
feet, and not always of the head and neck."  I wish Mr. Olmstead had added that they never
enforced the cutting of the hair.  No single trait has been so decidedly disadvantageous to
the appearance of the American army as the long, uncombed, rough locks of hair which the men
have appeared so loath to abandon.  In reading the above one cannot but think of the condition
of those other twenty regiments!

According to Mr. Olmstead two-thirds of the men were native born, and one-third was composed
of foreigners.  These foreigners are either Irish or German.  Had a similar report been made
of the armies in the West, I think it would have been seen that the proportion of foreigners
was still greater.  The average age of the privates was something under twenty-five, and that
of the officers thirty-four.  I may here add, from my own observation, that an officer's rank
could in no degree be predicated from his age. Generals, colonels, majors, captains, and lieutenants
had been all appointed at the same time, and without reference to age or qualification.  Political
influence, or the power of raising recruits, had been the standard by which military rank was
distributed.  The old West Point officers had generally been chosen for high commands, but
beyond this everything was necessarily new. Young colonels and ancient captains abounded without
any harsh feeling as to the matter on either side.  Indeed, in this respect, the practice of
the country generally was simply carried out. Fathers and mothers in America seem to obey their
sons and daughters naturally, and as they grow old become the slaves of their grandchildren.

Mr. Olmstead says that food was found to be universally good and abundant.  On this matter
Mr. Olmstead might have spoken in stronger language without exaggeration.  The food supplied
to the American armies has been extravagantly good, and certainly has been wastefully abundant.
Very much has been said of the cost of the American army, and it has been made a matter of
boasting that no army so costly has ever been put into the field by any other nation. The assertion
is, I believe, at any rate true.  I have found it impossible to ascertain what has hitherto
been expended on the army. I much doubt whether even Mr. Chase, the Secretary of the Treasury,
or Mr. Stanton, the Secretary of War, know themselves, and I do not suppose that Mr. Stanton's
predecessor much cared.  Some approach, however, may be reached to the amount actually paid
in wages and for clothes and diet; and I give below a statement which I have seen of the actual
annual sum proposed to be expended on these heads, presuming the army to consist of 500,000
men.  The army is stated to contain 660,000 men, but the former numbers given would probably
be found to be nearer the mark:--

Wages of privates, including sergeants and
  corporals                                $86,640,000
Salaries of regimental officers             23,784,000
Extra wages of privates; extra pay to
  mounted officers, and salary to
  officers above the rank of colonel        l7,000,000
                                          ------------
                                          $127,424,000
                                                or
                                            25,484,000 pounds sterling.

To this must be added the cost of diet and clothing.  The food of the men, I was informed,
was supplied at an average cost of l7 cents a day, which, for an army of 500,000 men, would
amount to 6,200,000 pounds per annum.  The clothing of the men is shown by the printed statement
of their War Department to amount to $3.00 a month for a period of five years.  That, at least,
is the amount allowed to a private of infantry or artillery.  The cost of the cavalry uniforms
and of the dress of the non-commissioned officers is something higher, but not sufficiently
so to make it necessary to make special provision for the difference in a statement so rough
as this.  At $3.00 a month the clothing of the army would amount to 3,600,000 pounds.  The
actual annual cost would therefore be as follows:

Salaries and wages          25,484,400 pounds.
Diet of the soldiers         6,200,000    "
Clothing for the soldiers    3,600,000    "
                            ----------
                            35,280,400    "

I believe that these figures may be trusted, unless it be with reference to that sum of $l7,000,000,
or 3,400,000 pounds, which is presumed to include the salaries of all general officers, with
their staffs, and also the extra wages paid to soldiers in certain cases. This is given as
an estimate, and may be over or under the mark. The sum named as the cost of clothing would
be correct, or nearly so, if the army remained in its present force for five years.  If it
so remained for only one year, the cost would be one-fifth higher. It must of course be remembered
that the sum above named includes simply the wages, clothes, and food of the men.  It does
not comprise the purchase of arms, horses, ammunition, or wagons; the forage of horses; the
transport of troops, or any of those incidental expenses of warfare which are always, I presume,
heavier than the absolute cost of the men, and which, in this war, have been probably heavier
than in any war ever waged on the face of God's earth.  Nor does it include that terrible item
of peculation, as to which I will say a word or two before I finish this chapter.

The yearly total payment of the officers and soldiers of the army is as follows.  As regards
the officers, it must be understood that this includes all the allowances made to them, except
as regards those on the staff.  The sums named apply only to the infantry and artillery.  The
pay of the cavalry is about ten per cent. higher:--

Lieutenant-General*     1850 pounds. Major-general           1150    " Brigadier-General  
800    " Colonel                  530    " Lieutenant-Colonel**     475    " Major        
430    " Captain                  300    " First Lieutenant         265    " Second Lieutenant
245    " First Sergeant            48    " Sergeant                  40    " Corporal     
34    " Private                   31    "

* General Scott alone holds that rank in the United States Army.

** A colonel and lieutenant-colonel are attached to each regiment.

In every grade named the pay is, I believe, higher than that given by us, or, as I imagine,
by any other nation.  It is, however, probable that the extra allowances paid to some of our
higher officers when on duty may give to their positions for a time a higher pecuniary remuneration.
It will of course be understood that there is nothing in the American army answering to our
colonel of a regiment.  With us the officer so designated holds a nominal command of high dignity
and emolument as a reward for past services.

I have already spoken of my visits to the camps of the other armies in the field, that of General
Halleck, who held his headquarters at St. Louis, in Missouri, and that of General Buell, who
was at Louisville, in Kentucky.  There was also a fourth army under General Hunter, in Kansas,
but I did not make my way as far west as that.  I do not pretend to any military knowledge,
and should be foolish to attempt military criticism; but as far as I could judge by appearance,
I should say that the men in Buell's army were, of the three, in the best order.  They seemed
to me to be cleaner than the others, and, as far as I could learn, were in better health. 
Want of discipline and dirt have, no doubt, been the great faults of the regiments generally,
and the latter drawback may probably be included in the former.  These men have not been accustomed
to act under the orders of superiors, and when they entered on the service hardly recognized
the fact that they would have to do so in aught else than in their actual drill and fighting.
It is impossible to conceive any class of men to whom the necessary discipline of a soldier
would come with more difficulty than to an American citizen. The whole training of his life
has been against it.  He has never known respect for a master, or reverence for men of a higher
rank than himself.  He has probably been made to work hard for his wages-- harder than an Englishman
works--but he has been his employer's equal.  The language between them has been the language
of equals, and their arrangement as to labor and wages has been a contract between equals.
If he did not work he would not get his money--and perhaps not if he did.  Under these circumstances
he has made his fight with the world; but those circumstances have never taught him that special
deference to a superior, which is the first essential of a soldier's duty.  But probably in
no respect would that difficulty be so severely felt as in all matters appertaining to personal
habits.  Here at any rate the man would expect to be still his own master, acting for himself
and independent of all outer control.  Our English Hodge, when taken from the plow to the camp,
would, probably, submit without a murmur to soap and water and a barber's shears; he would
have received none of that education which would prompt him to rebel against such ordinances;
but the American citizen, who for awhile expects to shake hands with his captain whenever he
sees him, and is astonished when he learns that he must not offer him drinks, cannot at once
be brought to understand that he is to be treated like a child in the nursery; that he must
change his shirt so often, wash himself at such and such intervals, and go through a certain
process of cleansing his outward garments daily. I met while traveling a sergeant of a regiment
of the American regulars, and he spoke of the want of discipline among the volunteers as hopeless.
But even he instanced it chiefly by their want of cleanliness.  "They wear their shirts till
they drop off their backs," said he; "and what can you expect from such men as that?"  I liked
that sergeant for his zeal and intelligence, and also for his courtesy when he found that I
was an Englishman; for previous to his so finding he had begun to abuse the English roundly--but
I did not quite agree with him about the volunteers. It is very bad that soldiers should be
dirty, bad also that they should treat their captains with familiarity, and desire to exchange
drinks with the majors.  But even discipline is not everything; and discipline will come at
last even to the American soldiers, distasteful as it may be, when the necessity for it is
made apparent.  But these volunteers have great military virtues.  They are intelligent, zealous
in their cause, handy with arms, willing enough to work at all military duties, and personally
brave.  On the other hand, they are sickly, and there has been a considerable amount of drunkenness
among them.  No man who has looked to the subject can, I think, doubt that a native American
has a lower physical development than an Irishman, a German, or an Englishman. They become
old sooner, and die at an earlier age.  As to that matter of drink, I do not think that much
need be said against them. English soldiers get drunk when they have the means of doing so,
and American soldiers would not get drunk if the means were taken away from them.  A little
drunkenness goes a long way in a camp, and ten drunkards will give a bad name to a company
of a hundred.  Let any man travel with twenty men of whom four are tipsy, and on leaving them
he will tell you that every man of them was a drunkard.

I have said that these men are brave, and I have no doubt that they are so.  How should it
be otherwise with men of such a race?  But it must be remembered that there are two kinds of
courage, one of which is very common and the other very uncommon.  Of the latter description
of courage it cannot be expected that much should be found among the privates of any army,
and perhaps not very many examples among the officers.  It is a courage self-sustained, based
on a knowledge of the right, and on a life-long calculation that any results coming from adherence
to the right will be preferable to any that can be produced by a departure from it.  This is
the courage which will enable a man to stand his ground, in battle or elsewhere, though broken
worlds should fall around him.  The other courage, which is mainly an affair of the heart or
blood and not of the brain, always requires some outward support.  The man who finds himself
prominent in danger bears himself gallantly, because the eyes of many will see him; whether
as an old man he leads an army, or as a young man goes on a forlorn hope, or as a private carries
his officer on his back out of the fire, he is sustained by the love of praise.  And the men
who are not individually prominent in danger, who stand their ground shoulder to shoulder,
bear themselves gallantly also, each trusting in the combined strength of his comrades.  When
such combined courage has been acquired, that useful courage is engendered which we may rather
call confidence, and which of all courage is the most serviceable in the army.  At the battle
of Bull's Run the army of the North became panic-stricken, and fled. From this fact many have
been led to believe that the American soldiers would not fight well, and that they could not
be brought to stand their ground under fire.  This I think has been an unfair conclusion. 
In the first place, the history of the battle of Bull's Run has yet to be written; as yet the
history of the flight only has been given to us.  As far as I can learn, the Northern soldiers
did at first fight well; so well, that the army of the South believed itself to be beaten.
But a panic was created--at first, as it seems, among the teamsters and wagons.  A cry was
raised, and a rush was made by hundreds of drivers with their carts and horses; and then men
who had never seen war before, who had not yet had three months' drilling as soldiers, to whom
the turmoil of that day must have seemed as though hell were opening upon them, joined themselves
to the general clamor and fled to Washington, believing that all was lost.  But at the same
time the regiments of the enemy were going through the same farce in the other direction! 
It was a battle between troops who knew nothing of battles; of soldiers who were not yet soldiers.
That individual high-minded courage which would have given to each individual recruit the self-sustained
power against a panic, which is to be looked for in a general, was not to be looked for in
them.  Of the other courage of which I have spoken, there was as much as the circumstances
of the battle would allow.

On subsequent occasions the men have fought well.  We should, I think, admit that they have
fought very well when we consider how short has been their practice at such work.  At Somerset,
at Fort Henry, at Fort Donelson, at Corinth, the men behaved with courage, standing well to
their arms, though at each place the slaughter among them was great.  They have always gone
well into fire, and have general]y borne themselves well under fire.  I am convinced that we
in England can make no greater mistake than to suppose that the Americans as soldiers are deficient
in courage.

But now I must come to a matter in which a terrible deficiency has been shown, not by the soldiers,
but by those whose duty it has been to provide for the soldiers.  It is impossible to speak
of the army of the North and to leave untouched that hideous subject of army contracts.  And
I think myself the more specially bound to allude to it because I feel that the iniquities
which have prevailed prove with terrible earnestness the demoralizing power of that dishonesty
among men in high places, which is the one great evil of the American States.  It is there
that the deficiency exists, which must be supplied before the public men of the nation can
take a high rank among other public men.  There is the gangrene, which must be cut out before
the government, as a government, can be great.  To make money is the one thing needful, and
men have been anxious to meddle with the affairs of government, because there might money be
made with the greatest ease.  "Make money," the Roman satirist said; "make it honestly if you
can, but at any rate make money."  That first counsel would be considered futile and altogether
vain by those who have lately dealt with the public wants of the American States.

This is bad in a most fatal degree, not mainly because men in high places have been dishonest,
or because the government has been badly served by its own paid officers.  That men in high
places should be dishonest, and that the people should be cheated by their rulers, is very
bad.  But there is worse than this.  The thing becomes so common, and so notorious, that the
American world at large is taught to believe that dishonesty is in itself good.  "It behoves
a man to be smart, sir!"  Till the opposite doctrine to that be learned; till men in America--ay,
and in Europe, Asia, and Africa--can learn that it specially behoves a man not to be smart,
they will have learned little of their duty toward God, and nothing of their duty toward their
neighbor.

In the instances of fraud against the States government to which I am about to allude, I shall
take all my facts from the report made to the House of Representatives at Washington by a committee
of that House in December, 1861.  "Mr. Washburne, from the Select Committee to inquire into
the Contracts of the Government, made the following Report."  That is the heading of the pamphlet.
The committee was known as the Van Wyck Committee, a gentleman of that name having acted as
chairman.

The committee first went to New York, and began their inquiries with reference to the purchase
of a steamboat called the "Catiline."  In this case a certain Captain Comstock had been designated
from Washington as the agent to be trusted in the charter or purchase of the vessel.  He agreed
on behalf of the government to hire that special boat for 2000l. a month for three months,
having given information to friends of his on the matter, which enabled them to purchase it
out and out for less than 4000l.  These friends were not connected with shipping matters, but
were lawyers and hotel proprietors.  The committee conclude "that the vessel was chartered
to the government at an unconscionable price; and that Captain Comstock, by whom this was effected,
while enjoying THE PECULIAR CONFIDENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT, was acting for and in concert with
the parties who chartered the vessel, and was in fact their agent."  But the report does not
explain why Captain Comstock was selected for this work by authority from Washington, nor does
it recommend that he be punished.  It does not appear that Captain Comstock had ever been in
the regular service of the government, but that he had been master of a steamer.

In the next place one Starbuck is employed to buy ships.  As a government agent he buys two
for 1300l. and sells them to the government for 2900l.  The vessels themselves, when delivered
at the navy yard, were found to be totally unfit for the service for which they had been purchased.
But why was Starbuck employed, when, as appears over and over again in the report, New York
was full of paid government servants ready and fit to do the work?  Starbuck was merely an
agent, and who will believe that he was allowed to pocket the whole difference of 1600l.? 
The greater part of the plunder was, however, in this case refunded.

Then we come to the case of Mr. George D. Morgan, brother-in-law of Mr. Welles, the Secretary
of the Navy.  I have spoken of this gentleman before, and of his singular prosperity.  He amassed
a large fortune in five months, as a government agent for the purchase of vessels, he having
been a wholesale grocer by trade.  This gentleman had had no experience whatsoever with reference
to ships. It is shown by the evidence that he had none of the requisite knowledge, and that
there were special servants of the government in New York at that time, sent there specially
for such services as these, who were in every way trustworthy, and who had the requisite knowledge.
Yet Mr. Morgan was placed in this position by his brother-in-law, the Secretary of the Navy,
and in that capacity made about 20,000l. in five months, all of which was paid by the government,
as is well shown to have been the fact in the report before me.  One result of such a mode
of agency is given; one other result, I mean, besides the 20,000l. put into the pocket of the
brother of the Secretary of the Navy.  A ship called the "Stars and Stripes" was bought by
Mr. Morgan for 11,000l., which had been built some months before for 7000l.  This vessel was
bought from a company which was blessed with a president.  The president made the bargain with
the government agent, but insisted on keeping back from his own company 2000l. out of the 11,000l.
for expenses incident to the purchase.  The company did not like being mulcted of its prey,
and growled heavily; but their president declared that such bargains were not got at Washington
for nothing.  Members of Congress had to be paid to assist in such things.  At least he could
not reduce his little private bill for such assistance below 1600l.  He had, he said, positively
paid out so much to those venal members of Congress, and had made nothing for himself to compensate
him for his own exertions.  When this president came to be examined, he admitted that he had
really made no payments to members of Congress.  His own capacity had been so great that no
such assistance had been found necessary.  But he justified his charge on the ground that the
sum taken by him was no more than the company might have expected him to lay out on members
of Congress, or on ex-members who are specially mentioned, had he not himself carried on the
business with such consummate discretion!  It seems to me that the members or ex- members of
Congress were shamefully robbed in this matter.

The report deals manfully with Mr. Morgan, showing that for five months' work--which work he
did not do and did not know how to do-- he received as large a sum as the President's salary
for the whole Presidential term of four years.  So much better is it to be an agent of government
than simply an officer!  And the committee adds, that they "do not find in this transaction
the less to censure in the fact that this arrangement between the Secretary of the Navy and
Mr. Morgan was one between brothers-in-law."  After that who will believe that Mr. Morgan had
the whole of that 20,000l. for himself? And yet Mr. Welles still remains Secretary of the Navy,
and has justified the whole transaction in an explanation admitting everything, and which is
considered by his friends to be an able State paper.  "It behoves a man to be smart, sir."
Mr. Morgan and Secretary Welles will no doubt be considered by their own party to have done
their duty well as high-trading public functionaries.  The faults of Mr. Morgan and of Secretary
Welles are nothing to us in England; but the light in which such faults may be regarded by
the American people is much to us.

I will now go on to the case of a Mr. Cummings.  Mr. Cummings, it appears, had been for many
years the editor of a newspaper in Philadelphia, and had been an intimate political friend
and ally of Mr. Cameron.  Now at the time of which I am writing, April, 1861, Mr. Cameron was
Secretary of War, and could be very useful to an old political ally living in his own State.
The upshot of the present case will teach us to think well of Mr. Cameron's gratitude.

In April, 1861, stores were wanted for the army at Washington, and Mr. Cameron gave an order
to his old friend Cummings to expend 2,000,000 dollars, pretty much according to his fancy,
in buying stores.  Governor Morgan, the Governor of New York State, and a relative of our other
friend Morgan, was joined with Mr. Cummings in this commission, Mr. Cameron no doubt having
felt himself bound to give the friends of his colleague at the Navy a chance.  Governor Morgan
at once made over his right to his relative; but better things soon came in Mr. Morgan's way,
and he relinquished his share in this partnership at an early date.  In this transaction he
did not himself handle above 25,000 dollars.  Then the whole job fell into the hands of Mr.
Cameron's old political friend.

The 2,000,000 dollars, or 400,000l., were paid into the hands of certain government treasurers
at New York, but they had orders to honor the draft of the political friend of the Secretary
of War, and consequently 50,000l. was immediately withdrawn by Mr. Cummings, and with this
he went to work.  It is shown that he knew nothing of the business; that he employed a clerk
from Albany whom he did not know, and confided to this clerk the duty of buying such stores
as were bought; that this clerk was recommended to him by Mr. Weed, the editor of a newspaper
at Albany, who is known in the States as the special political friend of Mr. Seward, the Secretary
of State; and that in this way he spent 32,000l.  He bought linen pantaloons and straw hats
to the amount of 4200l., because he thought the soldiers looked hot in the warm weather; but
he afterward learned that they were of no use.  He bought groceries of a hardware dealer named
Davidson, at Albany, that town whence came Mr. Weed's clerk.  He did not know what was Davidson's
trade, nor did he know exactly what he was going to buy; but Davidson proposed to sell him
something which Mr. Cummings believed to be some kind of provisions, and he bought it.  He
did not know for how much--whether over 2000l. or not.  He never saw the articles, and had
no knowledge of their quality.  It was out of the question that he should have such knowledge,
as he naively remarks.  His clerk Humphreys saw the articles.  He presumed they were brought
from Albany, but did not know.  He afterward bought a ship--or two or three ships.  He inspected
one ship "by a mere casual visit:" that is to say, he did not examine her boilers; he did not
know her tonnage, but he took the word of the seller for everything.  He could not state the
terms of the charter, or give the substance of it.  He had had no former experience in buying
or chartering ships.  He also bought 75,000 pairs of shoes at only 25 cents (or one shilling)
a pair more than their proper price.  He bought them of a Mr. Hall, who declares that he paid
Mr. Cummings nothing for the job, but regarded it as a return for certain previous favors conferred
by him on Mr. Cummings in the occasional loans of 100l. or 200l.

At the end of the examination it appears that Mr. Cummings still held in his hand a slight
balance of 28,000l., of which he had forgotten to make mention in the body of his own evidence.
"This item seems to have been overlooked by him in his testimony," says the report.  And when
the report was made, nothing had yet been learned of the destiny of this small balance.

Then the report gives a list of the army supplies miscellaneously purchased by Mr. Cummings:
280 dozen pints of ale at 9s. 6d. a dozen; a lot of codfish and herrings; 200 boxes of cheeses
and a large assortment of butter; some tongues; straw hats and linen "pants;" 23 barrels of
pickles; 25 casks of Scotch ale, price not stated; a lot of London porter, price not stated;
and some Hall carbines of which I must say a word more further on.  It should be remembered
that no requisition had come from the army for any of the articles named; that the purchase
of herrings and straw hats was dictated solely by the discretion of Cummings and his man Humphreys,
or, as is more probable, by the fact that some other person had such articles by him for sale;
and that the government had its own established officers for the supply of things properly
ordered by military requisition.  These very same articles also were apparently procured, in
the first place, as a private speculation, and were made over to the government on the failure
of that speculation. "Some of the above articles," says the report, "were shipped by the Catiline,
which was probably loaded on private account, and, not being able to obtain a clearance, was,
in some way, through Mr. Cummings, transferred over to the government--SCOTCH ALE, LONDON PORTER,
SELECTED HERRINGS, and all."  The italics, as well as the words, are taken from the report.

This was the confidential political friend of the Secretary of War, by whom he was intrusted
with 400,000l. of public money!  Twenty- eight thousand pounds had not been accounted for when
the report was made, and the army supplies were bought after the fashion above named.  That
Secretary of War, Mr. Cameron, has since left the cabinet; but he has not been turned out in
disgrace; he has been nominated as Minister to Russia, and the world has been told that there
was some difference of opinion between him and his colleagues respecting slavery!  Mr. Cameron,
in some speech or paper, declared on his leaving the cabinet that he had not intended to remain
long as Secretary of War.  This assertion, I should think, must have been true.

And now about the Hall carbines, as to which the gentlemen on this committee tell their tale
with an evident delight in the richness of its incidents which at once puts all their readers
in accord with them.  There were altogether some five thousand of these, all of which the government
sold to a Mr. Eastman in June, 1861, for 14s. each, as perfectly useless, and afterward bought
in August for 4l. 8s. each, about 4s. a carbine having been expended in their repair in the
mean time.  But as regards 790 of these now famous weapons, it must be explained they had been
sold by the government as perfectly useless, and at a nominal price, previously to this second
sale made by the government to Mr. Eastman.  They had been so sold, and then, in April, 1861,
they had been bought again for the government by the indefatigable Cummings for 3l. each. 
Then they were again sold as useless for 14s. each to Eastman, and instantly rebought on behalf
of the government for 4l. 8s. each!  Useless for war purposes they may have been, but as articles
of commerce it must be confessed that they were very serviceable.

This last purchase was made by a man named Stevens on behalf of General Fremont, who at that
time commanded the army of the United States in Missouri.  Stevens had been employed by General
Fremont as an agent on the behalf of government, as is shown with clearness in the report,
and on hearing of these muskets telegraphed to the general at once: "I have 5000 Hall's rifled
cast-steel muskets, breach-loading, new, at 22 dollars."  General Fremont telegraphed back
instantly: "I will take the whole 5000 carbines. . . .  I will pay all extra charges." . .
. .  And so the purchase was made.  The muskets, it seems, were not absolutely useless even
as weapons of war.  "Considering the emergency of the times?" a competent witness considered
them to be worth "10 or 12 dollars."  The government had been as much cheated in selling them
as it had in buying them.  But the nature of the latter transaction is shown by the facts that
Stevens was employed, though irresponsibly employed, as a government agent by General Fremont;
that he bought the muskets in that character himself, making on the transaction 1l. 18s. on
each musket; and that the same man afterward appeared as an aid-de-camp on General Fremont's
staff.  General Fremont had no authority himself to make such a purchase, and when the money
was paid for the first installment of the arms, it was so paid by the special order of General
Fremont himself out of moneys intended to be applied to other purposes.  The money was actually
paid to a gentleman known at Fremont's headquarters as his special friend, and was then paid
in that irregular way because this friend desired that that special bill should receive immediate
payment.  After that, who can believe that Stevens was himself allowed to pocket the whole
amount of the plunder?

There is a nice little story of a clergyman in New York who sold, for 40l. and certain further
contingencies, the right to furnish 200 cavalry horses; but I should make this too long if
I told all the nice little stories.  As the frauds at St. Louis were, if not in fact the most
monstrous, at any rate the most monstrous which have as yet been brought to the light, I cannot
finish this account without explaining something of what was going on at that Western Paradise
in those halcyon days of General Fremont.

General Fremont, soon after reaching St. Louis, undertook to build ten forts for the protection
of that city.  These forts have since been pronounced as useless, and the whole measure has
been treated with derision by officers of his own army.  But the judgment displayed in the
matter is a military question with which I do not presume to meddle.  Even if a general be
wrong in such a matter, his character as a man is not disgraced by such error.  But the manner
of building them was the affair with which Mr. Van Wyck's Committee had to deal.  It seems
that five of the forts, the five largest, were made under the orders of a certain Major Kappner,
at a cost of 12,000l., and that the other five could have been built at least for the same
sum.  Major Kappner seems to have been a good and honest public servant, and therefore quite
unfit for the superintendence of such work at St. Louis.  The other five smaller forts were
also in progress, the works on them having been continued from 1st of September to 25th of
September, 1861; but on the 25th of September General Fremont himself gave special orders that
a contract should be made with a man named Beard, a Californian, who had followed him from
California to St. Louis.  This contract is dated the 25th of September.  But nevertheless the
work specified in that contract was done previous to that date, and most of the money paid
was paid previous to that date.  The contract did not specify any lump sum, but agreed that
the work should be paid for by the yard and by the square foot.  No less a sum was paid to
Beard for this work--the cormorant Beard, as the report calls him--than 24,200l., the last
payment only, amounting to 4000l., having been made subsequent to the date of the contract.
Twenty thousand two hundred pounds was paid to Beard before the date of the contract!  The
amounts were paid at five times, and the last four payments were made on the personal order
of General Fremont.  This Beard was under no bond, and none of the officers of the government
knew anything of the terms under which he was working.  On the 14th of October General Fremont
was ordered to discontinue these works, and to abstain from making any further payments on
their account.  But, disobeying this order, he directed his quartermaster to pay a further
sum of 4000l. to Beard out of the first sums he should receive from Washington, he then being
out of money.  This, however, was not paid.  "It must be understood," says the report, "that
every dollar ordered to be paid by General Fremont on account of these works was diverted from
a fund specially appropriated for another purpose."  And then again: "The money appropriated
by Congress to subsist and clothe and transport our armies was then, in utter contempt of all
law and of the army regulations, as well as in defiance of superior authority, ordered to be
diverted from its lawful purpose and turned over to the cormorant Beard.  While he had received
l70,000 dollars (24,200l.) from the government, it will be seen from the testimony of Major
Kappner that there had only been paid to the honest German laborers, who did the work on the
first five forts built under his directions, the sum of 15,500 dollars, (3100l.,) leaving from
40,000 to 50,000 dollars (8000l. to 10,000l.) still due; and while these laborers, whose families
were clamoring for bread, were besieging the quartermaster's department for their pay, this
infamous contractor Beard is found following up the army and in the confidence of the major-general,
who gives him orders for large purchases, which could only have been legally made through the
quartermaster's department."  After that, who will believe that all the money went into Beard's
pocket?  Why should General Fremont have committed every conceivable breach of order against
his government, merely with the view of favoring such a man as Beard?

The collusion of the Quartermaster M'Instry with fraudulent knaves in the purchase of horses
is then proved.  M'Instry was at this time Fremont's quartermaster at St. Louis.  I cannot
go through all these.  A man of the name of Jim Neil comes out in beautiful pre- eminence.
No dealer in horses could get to the quartermaster except through Jim Neil, or some such go-between.
The quartermaster contracted with Neil and Neil with the owners of horses; Neil at the time
being also military inspector of horses for the quartermaster. He bought horses as cavalry
horses for 24l. or less, and passed them himself as artillery horses for 30l.  In other cases
the military inspectors were paid by the sellers to pass horses.  All this was done under Quartermaster
M'Instry, who would himself deal with none but such as Neil.  In one instance, one Elliard
got a contract from M'instry, the profit of which was 8000l.  But there was a man named Brady.
Now Brady was a friend of M'Instry, who, scenting the carrion afar off, had come from Detroit,
in Michigan, to St. Louis. M'instry himself had also come from Detroit.  In this case Elliard
was simply directed by M'Instry to share his profits with Brady, and consequently paid to Brady
4000l., although Brady gave to the business neither capital nor labor.  He simply took the
4000l. as the quartermaster's friend.  This Elliard, it seems, also gave a carriage and horses
to Mrs. Fremont.  Indeed, Elliard seems to have been a civil and generous fellow.  Then there
is a man named Thompson, whose case is very amusing.  Of him the committee thus speaks: "It
must be said that Thompson was not forgetful of the obligations of gratitude, for, after he
got through with the contract, he presented the son of Major M'instry with a riding pony. That
was the only mark of respect," to use his own words, "that he showed to the family of Major
M'instry."

General Fremont himself desired that a contract should be made with one Augustus Sacchi for
a thousand Canadian horses.  It turned out that Sacchi was "nobody: a man of straw living in
a garret in New York, whom nobody knew, a man who was brought out there"--to St. Louis--"as
a good person through whom to work."  "It will hardly be believed," says the report, "that
the name of this same man Sacchi appears in the newspapers as being on the staff of General
Fremont, at Springfield, with the rank of captain."

I do not know that any good would result from my pursuing further the details of this wonderful
report.  The remaining portion of it refers solely to the command held by General Fremont in
Missouri, and adds proof upon proof of the gross robberies inflicted upon the government of
the States by the very persons set in high authority to protect the government.  We learn how
all utensils for the camp, kettles, blankets, shoes, mess pans, etc., were supplied by one
firm, without a contract, at an enormous price, and of a quality so bad as to be almost useless,
because the quartermaster was under obligations to the partners.  We learn that one partner
in that firm gave 40l. toward a service of plate for the quartermaster, and 60l. toward a carriage
for Mrs. Fremont.  We learn how futile were the efforts of any honest tradesman to supply good
shoes to soldiers who were shoeless, and the history of one special pair of shoes which was
thrust under the nose of the quartermaster is very amusing.  We learn that a certain paymaster
properly refused to settle an account for matters with which he had no concern, and that General
Fremont at once sent down soldiers to arrest him unless he made the illegal payment.  In October
1000l. was expended in ice, all which ice was wasted.  Regiments were sent hither and thither
with no military purpose, merely because certain officers, calling themselves generals, desired
to make up brigades for themselves.  Indeed, every description of fraud was perpetrated, and
this was done not through the negligence of those in high command, but by their connivance
and often with their express authority.

It will be said that the conduct of General Fremont during the days of his command in Missouri
is not a matter of much moment to us in England; that it has been properly handled by the committee
of Representatives appointed by the American Congress to inquire into the matter; and that
after the publication of such a report by them, it is ungenerous in a writer from another nation
to speak upon the subject.  This would be so if the inquiries made by that committee and their
report had resulted in any general condemnation of the men whose misdeeds and peculations have
been exposed.  This, however, is by no means the case.  Those who were heretofore opposed to
General Fremont on political principles are opposed to him still; but those who heretofore
supported him are ready to support him again.  He has not been placed beyond the pale of public
favor by the record which has been made of his public misdeeds.  He is decried by the Democrats
because he is a Republican, and by the anti-abolitionists because he is an Abolitionist; but
he is not decried because he has shown himself to be dishonest in the service of his government.
He was dismissed from his command in the West, but men on his side of the question declare
that he was so dismissed because his political opponents had prevailed.  Now, at the moment
that I am writing this, men are saying that the President must give him another command.  He
is still a major-general in the army of the States, and is as probable a candidate as any other
that I could name for the next Presidency.*

* Since this was written, General Fremont has been restored to high military command, and now
holds rank and equal authority with McClellan and Halleck.  In fact, the charges made against
him by the committee of the House of Representatives have not been allowed to stand in his
way.  He is politically popular with a large section of the nation, and therefore it has been
thought well to promote him to high place.  Whether he be fit for such place either as regards
capability or integrity, seems to be considered of no moment.

The same argument must be used with reference to the other gentlemen named.  Mr. Welles is
still a cabinet minister and Secretary of the Navy.  It has been found impossible to keep Mr.
Cameron in the cabinet, but he was named as the minister of the States government to Russia,
after the publication of the Van Wyck report, when the result of his old political friendship
with Mr. Alexander Cummings was well known to the President who appointed him and to the Senate
who sanctioned his appointment.  The individual corruption of any one man--of any ten men--is
not much.  It should not be insisted on loudly by any foreigner in making up a balance-sheet
of the virtues and vices of the good and bad qualities of any nation.  But the light in which
such corruption is viewed by the people whom it most nearly concerns is very much.  I am far
from saying that democracy has failed in America.  Democracy there has done great things for
a numerous people, and will yet, as I think, be successful.  But that doctrine as to the necessity
of smartness must be eschewed before a verdict in favor of American democracy can be pronounced.
"It behoves a man to be smart, sir."  In those words are contained the curse under which the
States government has been suffering for the last thirty years.  Let us hope that the people
will find a mode of ridding themselves of that curse.  I, for one, believe that they will do so.

CHAPTER VIII.

BACK TO BOSTON.

From Louisville we returned to Cincinnati, in making which journey we were taken to a place
called Seymour, in Indiana, at which spot we were to "make connection" with the train running
on the Mississippi and Ohio line from St. Louis to Cincinnati.  We did make the connection,
but were called upon to remain four hours at Seymour in consequence of some accident on the
line.  In the same way, when going eastward from Cincinnati to Baltimore a few days later,
I was detained another four hours at a place called Crestline, in Ohio. On both occasions I
spent my time in realizing, as far as that might be possible, the sort of life which men lead
who settle themselves at such localities.  Both these towns--for they call themselves towns--had
been created by the railways.  Indeed this has been the case with almost every place at which
a few hundred inhabitants have been drawn together in the Western States.  With the exception
of such cities as Chicago, St. Louis, and Cincinnati, settlers can hardly be said to have chosen
their own localities.  These have been chosen for them by the originators of the different
lines of railway.  And there is nothing in Europe in any way like to these Western railway
settlements.  In the first place, the line of the rails runs through the main street of the
town, and forms not unfrequently the only road.  At Seymour I could find no way of getting
away from the rails unless I went into the fields.  At Crestline, which is a larger place,
I did find a street in which there was no railroad, but it was deserted, and manifestly out
of favor with the inhabitants.  As there were railway junctions at both these posts, there
were, of course, cross-streets, and the houses extended themselves from the center thus made
along the lines, houses being added to houses at short intervals as new-corners settled themselves
down.  The panting, and groaning, and whistling of engines is continual; for at such places
freight trains are always kept waiting for passenger trains, and the slower freight trains
for those which are called fast.  This is the life of the town; and indeed as the whole place
is dependent on the railway, so is the railway held in favor and beloved.  The noise of the
engines is not disliked, nor are its puffings and groanings held to be unmusical.  With us
a locomotive steam-engine is still, as it were, a beast of prey, against which one has to be
on one's guard--in respect to which one specially warns the children.  But there, in the Western
States, it has been taken to the bosoms of them all as a domestic animal; no one fears it,
and the little children run about almost among its wheels.  It is petted and made much of on
all sides--and, as far as I know, it seldom bites or tears.  I have not heard of children being
destroyed wholesale in the streets, or of drunken men becoming frequent sacrifices.  But had
I been consulted beforehand as to the natural effects of such an arrangement, I should have
said that no child could have been reared in such a town, and that any continuance of population
under such circumstances must have been impracticable.

Such places, however, do thrive and prosper with a prosperity especially their own, and the
boys and girls increase and multiply in spite of all dangers.  With us in England it is difficult
to realize the importance which is attached to a railway in the States, and the results which
a railway creates.  We have roads everywhere, and our country had been cultivated throughout
with more or less care before our system of railways had been commenced; but in America, especially
in the North, the railways have been the precursors of cultivation.  They have been carried
hither and thither, through primeval forests and over prairies, with small hope of other traffic
than that which they themselves would make by their own influences.  The people settling on
their edges have had the very best of all roads at their service; but they have had no other
roads.  The face of the country between one settlement and another is still in many cases utterly
unknown; but there is the connecting road by which produce is carried away, and new-comers
are brought in.  The town that is distant a hundred miles by the rail is so near that its inhabitants
are neighbors; but a settlement twenty miles distant across the uncleared country is unknown,
unvisited, and probably unheard of by the women and children.  Under such circumstances the
railway is everything.  It is the first necessity of life, and gives the only hope of wealth.
It is the backbone of existence from whence spring, and by which are protected, all the vital
organs and functions of the community.  It is the right arm of civilization for the people,
and the discoverer of the fertility of the land.  It is all in all to those people, and to
those regions. It has supplied the wants of frontier life with all the substantial comfort
of the cities, and carried education, progress, and social habits into the wilderness.  To
the eye of the stranger such places as Seymour and Crestline are desolate and dreary.  There
is nothing of beauty in them--given either by nature or by art.  The railway itself is ugly,
and its numerous sidings and branches form a mass of iron road which is bewildering, and, according
to my ideas, in itself disagreeable.  The wooden houses open down upon the line, and have no
gardens to relieve them.  A foreigner, when first surveying such a spot, will certainly record
within himself a verdict against it; but in doing so he probably commits the error of judging
it by a wrong standard.  He should compare it with the new settlements which men have opened
up in spots where no railway has assisted them, and not with old towns in which wealth has
long been congregated.  The traveler may see what is the place with the railway; then let him
consider how it might have thriven without the railway.

I confess that I became tired of my sojourn at both the places I have named.  At each I think
that I saw every house in the place, although my visit to Seymour was made in the night; and
at both I was lamentably at a loss for something to do.  At Crestline I was all alone, and
began to feel that the hours which I knew must pass before the missing train could come would
never make away with themselves.  There were many others stationed there as I was, but to them
had been given a capability for loafing which niggardly Nature has denied to me.  An American
has the power of seating himself in the close vicinity of a hot stove and feeding in silence
on his own thoughts by the hour together.  It may be that he will smoke; but after awhile his
cigar will come to an end.  He sits on, however, certainly patient, and apparently contented.
It may be that he chews, but if so, he does it with motionless jaws, and so slow a mastication
of the pabulum upon which he feeds, that his employment in this respect only disturbs the absolute
quiet of the circle when, at certain long, distant intervals, he deposits the secretion of
his tobacco in an ornamental utensil which may probably be placed in the farthest corner of
the hall.  But during all this time he is happy. It does not fret him to sit there and think
and do nothing.  He is by no means an idle man--probably one much given to commercial enterprise.
Idle men out there in the West we may say there are none.  How should any idle man live in
such a country?  All who were sitting hour after hour in that circle round the stove of the
Crestline Hotel hall--sitting there hour after hour in silence, as I could not sit--were men
who earned their bread by labor.  They were farmers, mechanics, storekeepers; there was a lawyer
or two, and one clergyman.  Sufficient conversation took place at first to indicate the professions
of many of them.  One may conclude that there could not be place there for an idle man.  But
they all of them had a capacity for a prolonged state of doing nothing which is to me unintelligible,
and which is by me very much to be envied.  They are patient as cows which from hour to hour
lie on the grass chewing their cud.  An Englishman, if he be kept waiting by a train in some
forlorn station in which he can find no employment, curses his fate and all that has led to
his present misfortune with an energy which tells the story of his deep and thorough misery.
Such, I confess, is my state of existence under such circumstances.  But a Western American
gives himself up to "loafing," and is quite happy.  He balances himself on the back legs of
an arm-chair, and remains so, without speaking, drinking or smoking for an hour at a stretch;
and while he is doing so he looks as though he had all that he desired. I believe that he is
happy, and that he has all that he wants for such an occasion--an arm-chair in which to sit,
and a stove on which he can put his feet and by which he can make himself warm.

Such was not the phase of character which I had expected to find among the people of the West.
Of all virtues patience would have been the last which I should have thought of attributing
to them.  I should have expected to see them angry when robbed of their time, and irritable
under the stress of such grievances as railway delays; but they are never irritable under such
circumstances as I have attempted to describe, nor, indeed, are they a people prone to irritation
under any grievances.  Even in political matters they are long-enduring, and do not form themselves
into mobs for the expression of hot opinion.  We in England thought that masses of the people
would rise in anger if Mr. Lincoln's government should consent to give up Slidell and Mason;
but the people bore it without any rising.  The habeas corpus has been suspended, the liberty
of the press has been destroyed for a time, the telegraph wires have been taken up by the government
into their own hands, but nevertheless the people have said nothing.  There has been no rising
of a mob, and not even an expression of an adverse opinion.  The people require to be allowed
to vote periodically, and, having acquired that privilege, permit other matters to go by the
board. In this respect we have, I think, in some degree misunderstood their character.  They
have all been taught to reverence the nature of that form of government under which they live,
but they are not specially addicted to hot political fermentation.  They have learned to understand
that democratic institutions have given them liberty, and on that subject they entertain a
strong conviction which is universal.  But they have not habitually interested themselves deeply
in the doings of their legislators or of their government. On the subject of slavery there
have been and are different opinions, held with great tenacity and maintained occasionally
with violence; but on other subjects of daily policy the American people have not, I think,
been eager politicians.  Leading men in public life have been much less trammeled by popular
will than among us. Indeed with us the most conspicuous of our statesmen and legislators do
not lead, but are led.  In the States the noted politicians of the day have been the leaders,
and not unfrequently the coercers of opinion.  Seeing this, I claim for England a broader freedom
in political matters than the States have as yet achieved.  In speaking of the American form
of government, I will endeavor to explain more clearly the ideas which I have come to hold
on this matter.

I survived my delay at Seymour, after which I passed again through Cincinnati, and then survived
my subsequent delay at Crestline.  As to Cincinnati, I must put on record the result of a country
walk which I took there, or rather on which I was taken by my friend.  He professed to know
the beauties of the neighborhood and to be well acquainted with all that was attractive in
its vicinity.  Cincinnati is built on the Ohio, and is closely surrounded by picturesque hills
which overhang the suburbs of the city.  Over these I was taken, plowing my way through a depth
of mud which cannot be understood by any ordinary Englishman.  But the depth of mud was not
the only impediment nor the worst which we encountered.  As we began to ascend from the level
of the outskirts of the town we were greeted by a rising flavor in the air, which soon grew
into a strong odor, and at last developed itself into a stench that surpassed in offensiveness
anything that my nose had ever hitherto suffered. When we were at the worst we hardly knew
whether to descend or to proceed.  It had so increased in virulence that at one time I felt
sure that it arose from some matter buried in the ground beneath my feet.  But my friend, who
declared himself to be quite at home in Cincinnati matters, and to understand the details of
the great Cincinnati trade, declared against this opinion of mine.  Hogs, he said, were at
the bottom of it.  It was the odor of hogs going up to the Ohio heavens--of hogs in a state
of transit from hoggish nature to clothes-brushes, saddles, sausages, and lard.  He spoke with
an authority that constrained belief; but I can never forgive him in that he took me over those
hills, knowing all that he professed to know.  Let the visitors to Cincinnati keep themselves
within the city, and not wander forth among the mountains.  It is well that the odor of hogs
should ascend to heaven and not hang heavy over the streets; but it is not well to intercept
that odor in its ascent. My friend became ill with fever, and had to betake himself to the
care of nursing friends; so that I parted company with him at Cincinnati.  I did not tell him
that his illness was deserved as well as natural, but such was my feeling on the matter.  I
myself happily escaped the evil consequences which his imprudence might have entailed on me.

I again passed through Pittsburg, and over the Alleghany Mountains by Altoona, and down to
Baltimore--back into civilization, secession, conversation, and gastronomy.  I never had secessionist
sympathies and never expressed them.  I always believed in the North as a people--discrediting,
however, to the utmost the existing Northern government, or, as I should more properly say,
the existing Northern cabinet; but nevertheless, with such feelings and such belief I found
myself very happy at Baltimore.  Putting aside Boston--which must, I think, be generally preferred
by Englishmen to any other city in the States--I should choose Baltimore as my residence if
I were called upon to live in America.  I am not led to this, if I know myself, solely by the
canvas-back ducks; and as to the terrapins, I throw them to the winds.  The madeira, which
is still kept there with a reverence which I should call superstitious were it not that its
free circulation among outside worshipers prohibits the just use of such a word, may have something
to do with it, as may also the beauty of the women--to some small extent. Trifles do bear upon
our happiness in a manner that we do not ourselves understand and of which we are unconscious.
But there was an English look about the streets and houses which I think had as much to do
with it as either the wine, the women, or the ducks, and it seemed to me as though the manners
of the people of Maryland were more English than those of other Americans.  I do not say that
they were on this account better.  My English hat is, I am well aware, less graceful, and I
believe less comfortable, than a Turkish fez and turban; nevertheless I prefer my English hat.
New York I regard as the most thoroughly American of all American cities.  It is by no means
the one in which I should find myself the happiest; but I do not on that account condemn it.

I have said that in returning to Baltimore I found myself among secessionists.  In so saying
I intend to speak of a certain set whose influence depends perhaps more on their wealth, position,
and education than on their numbers.  I do not think that the population of the city was then
in favor of secession, even if it had ever been so.  I believe that the mob of Baltimore is
probably the roughest mob in the States--is more akin to a Paris mob, and I may perhaps also
say to a Manchester mob, than that of any other American city. There are more roughs in Baltimore
than elsewhere, and the roughs there are rougher.  In those early days of secession, when the
troops were being first hurried down from New England for the protection of Washington, this
mob was vehemently opposed to its progress.  Men had been taught to think that the rights of
the State of Maryland were being invaded by the passage of the soldiers, and they also were
undoubtedly imbued with a strong prepossession for the Southern cause.  The two ideas had then
gone together.  But the mob of Baltimore had ceased to be secessionists within twelve months
of their first exploit.  In April, 1861, they had refused to allow Massachusetts soldiers to
pass through the town on their way to Washington; and in February, 1862, they were nailing
Union flags on the door-posts of those who refused to display such banners as signs of triumph
at the Northern victories!

That Maryland can ever go with the South, even in the event of the South succeeding in secession,
no Marylander can believe.  It is not pretended that there is any struggle now going on with
such an object.  No such result has been expected, certainly since the possession of Washington
was secured to the North by the army of the Potomac.  By few, I believe, was such a result
expected even when Washington was insecure.  And yet the feeling for secession among a certain
class in Baltimore is as strong now as ever it was.  And it is equally strong in certain districts
of the State--in those districts which are most akin to Virginia in their habits, modes of
thought, and ties of friendship.  These men, and these women also, pray for the South if they
be pious, give their money to the South if they be generous, work for the South if they be
industrious, fight for the South if they be young, and talk for the South morning, noon, and
night, in spite of General Dix and his columbiads on Federal Hill.  It is in vain to say that
such men and women have no strong feeling on the matter, and that they are praying, working,
fighting, and talking under dictation.  Their hearts are in it.  And judging from them, even
though there were no other evidence from which to judge, I have no doubt that a similar feeling
is strong through all the seceding States.  On this subject the North, I think, deceives itself
in supposing that the Southern rebellion has been carried on without any strong feeling on
the part of the Southern people.  Whether the mob of Charleston be like the mob of Baltimore
I cannot tell; but I have no doubt as to the gentry of Charleston and the gentry of Baltimore
being in accord on the subject.

In what way, then, when the question has been settled by the force of arms, will these classes
find themselves obliged to act?  In Virginia and Maryland they comprise, as a rule, the highest
and best educated of the people.  As to parts of Kentucky the same thing may be said, and probably
as to the whole of Tennessee.  It must be remembered that this is not as though certain aristocratic
families in a few English counties should find themselves divided off from the politics and
national aspirations of their country-men, as was the case long since with reference to the
Roman Catholic adherents of the Stuarts, and as has been the case since then in a lesser degree
with the firmest of the old Tories who had allowed themselves to be deceived by Sir Robert
Peel.  In each of these cases the minority of dissentients was so small that the nation suffered
nothing, though individuals were all but robbed of their nationality.  but as regards America
it must be remembered that each State has in itself a governing power, and is in fact a separate
people.  Each has its own legislature, and must have its own line of politics.

The secessionists of Maryland and of Virginia may consent to live in obscurity; but if this
be so, who is to rule in those States?  From whence are to come the senators and the members
of Congress; the governors and attorney-generals?  From whence is to come the national spirit
of the two States, and the salt that shall preserve their political life?  I have never believed
that these States would succeed in secession.  I have always felt that they would be held within
the Union, whatever might be their own wishes.  But I think that they will be so held in a
manner and after a fashion that will render any political vitality almost impossible till a
new generation shall have sprung up.  In the mean time life goes on pleasantly enough in Baltimore,
and ladies meet together, knitting stockings and sewing shirts for the Southern soldiers, while
the gentlemen talk Southern politics and drink the health of the (Southern) president in ambiguous
terms, as our Cavaliers used to drink the health of the king.

During my second visit to Baltimore I went over to Washington for a day or two, and found the
capital still under the empire of King Mud.  How the elite of a nation--for the inhabitants
of Washington consider themselves to be the elite--can consent to live in such a state of thraldom,
a foreigner cannot understand.  Were I to say that it was intended to be typical of the condition
of the government, I might be considered cynical; but undoubtedly the sloughs of despond which
were deepest in their despondency were to be found in localities which gave an appearance of
truth to such a surmise.  The Secretary of State's office, in which Mr. Seward was still reigning,
though with diminished glory, was divided from the headquarters of the commander-in-chief,
which are immediately opposite to it, by an opaque river which admitted of no transit. These
buildings stand at the corner of President Square, and it had been long understood that any
close intercourse between them had not been considered desirable by the occupants of the military
side of the causeway.  But the Secretary of State's office was altogether unapproachable without
a long circuit and begrimed legs.  The Secretary of War's department was, if possible, in a
worse condition.  This is situated on the other side of the President's house, and the mud
lay, if possible, thicker in this quarter than it did round Mr. Seward's chambers.  The passage
over Pennsylvania Avenue, immediately in front of the War Office, was a thing not to be attempted
in those days.  Mr. Cameron, it is true, had gone, and Mr. Stanton was installed; but the labor
of cleansing the interior of that establishment had hitherto allowed no time for a glance at
the exterior dirt, and Mr. Stanton should, perhaps, be held as excused.  That the Navy Office
should be buried in mud, and quite debarred from approach, was to be expected.  The space immediately
in front of Mr. Lincoln's own residence was still kept fairly clean, and I am happy to be able
to give testimony to this effect.  Long may it remain so.  I could not, however, but think
that an energetic and careful President would have seen to the removal of the dirt from his
own immediate neighborhood.  It was something that his own shoes should remain unpolluted;
but the foul mud always clinging to the boots and leggings of those by whom he was daily surrounded
must, I should think, have been offensive to him.  The entrance to the Treasury was difficult
to achieve by those who had not learned by practice the ways of the place; but I must confess
that a tolerably clear passage was maintained on that side which led immediately down to the
halls of Congress.  Up at the Capitol the mud was again triumphant in the front of the building;
this however was not of great importance, as the legislative chambers of the States are always
reached by the back doors.  I, on this occasion, attempted to leave the building by the grand
entrance, but I soon became entangled among rivers of mud and mazes of shifting sand. With
difficulty I recovered my steps, and finding my way back to the building was forced to content
myself by an exit among the crowd of Senators and Representatives who were thronging down the
back stairs.

Of dirt of all kinds it behoves Washington and those concerned in Washington to make themselves
free.  It is the Augean stables through which some American Hercules must turn a purifying
river before the American people can justly boast either of their capital or of their government.
As to the material mud, enough has been said.  The presence of the army perhaps caused it,
and the excessive quantity of rain which had fallen may also be taken as a fair plea. But what
excuse shall we find for that other dirt?  It also had been caused by the presence of the army,
and by that long-continued down- pouring of contracts which had fallen like Danae's golden
shower into the laps of those who understood how to avail themselves of such heavenly waters.
The leaders of the rebellion are hated in the North.  The names of Jefferson Davis, of Cobb,
Toombs, and Floyd are mentioned with execration by the very children.  This has sprung from
a true and noble feeling; from a patriotic love of national greatness and a hatred of those
who, for small party purposes, have been willing to lessen the name of the United States. 
I have reverenced the feeling even when I have not shared it.  But, in addition to this, the
names of those also should be execrated who have robbed their country when pretending to serve
it; who have taken its wages in the days of its great struggle, and at the same time have filched
from its coffers; who have undertaken the task of steering the ship through the storm in order
that their hands might be deep in the meal-tub and the bread-basket, and that they might stuff
their own sacks with the ship's provisions.  These are the men who must be loathed by the nation--whose
fate must be held up as a warning to others before good can come!  Northern men and women talk
of hanging Davis and his accomplices.  I myself trust that there will be no hanging when the
war is over.  I believe there will be none, for the Americans are not a blood-thirsty people.
But if punishment of any kind be meted out, the men of the North should understand that they
have worse offenders among them than Davis and Floyd.

At the period of which I am now speaking, there had come a change over the spirit of Mr. Lincoln's
cabinet.  Mr. Seward was still his Secretary of State, but he was, as far as outside observers
could judge, no longer his Prime Minister.  In the early days of the war, and up to the departure
of Mr. Cameron from out of the cabinet, Mr. Seward had been the Minister of the nation.  In
his dispatches he talks ever of We or of I.  In every word of his official writings, of which
a large volume has been published, he shows plainly that he intends to be considered as the
man of the day--as the hero who is to bring the States through their difficulties.  Mr. Lincoln
may be king, but Mr. Seward is mayor of the palace, and carries the king in his pocket.  From
the depth of his own wisdom he undertakes to teach his ministers in all parts of the world,
not only their duties, but their proper aspiration.  He is equally kind to foreign statesmen,
and sends to them messages as though from an altitude which no European politician had ever
reached.  At home he has affected the Prime Minister in everything, dropping the We and using
the I in a manner that has hardly made up by its audacity for its deficiency in discretion.
It is of course known everywhere that he had run Mr. Lincoln very hard for the position of
Republican candidate for the Presidency.  Mr. Lincoln beat him, and Mr. Seward is well aware
that in the states a man has never a second chance for the presidential chair.  Hence has arisen
his ambition to make for himself a new place in the annals of American politics.  Hitherto
there has been no Prime Minister known in the government of the United States.  Mr. Seward
has attempted a revolution in that matter, and has essayed to fill the situation.  For awhile
it almost seemed that he was successful.  He interfered with the army, and his interferences
were endured.  He took upon himself the business of the police, and arrested men at his own
will and pleasure.  The habeas corpus was in his hand, and his name was current through the
States as a covering authority for every outrage on the old laws.  Sufficient craft, or perhaps
cleverness, he possessed to organize a position which should give him a power greater than
the power of the President; but he had not the genius which would enable him to hold it.  He
made foolish prophecies about the war, and talked of the triumphs which he would win.  He wrote
state-papers on matters which he did not understand, and gave himself the airs of diplomatic
learning while he showed himself to be sadly ignorant of the very rudiments of diplomacy. 
He tried to joke as Lord Palmerston jokes, and nobody liked his joking. He was greedy after
the little appanages of power, taking from others who loved them as well as he did privileges
with which he might have dispensed.  And then, lastly, he was successful in nothing.  He had
given himself out as the commander of the commander-in-chief; but then under his command nothing
got itself done.  For a month or two some men had really believed in Mr. Seward.  The policemen
of the country had come to have an absolute trust in him, and the underlings of the public
offices were beginning to think that he might be a great man.  But then, as is ever the case
with such men, there came suddenly a downfall.  Mr. Cameron went from the cabinet, and everybody
knew that Mr. Seward would be no longer commander of the commander-in-chief.  His prime ministership
was gone from him, and he sank down into the comparatively humble position of Minister for
Foreign Affairs.  His lettres de cachet no longer ran.  His passport system was repealed. His
prisoners were released.  And though it is too much to say that writs of habeas corpus were
no longer suspended, the effect and very meaning of the suspension were at once altered.  When
I first left Washington, Mr. Seward was the only minister of the cabinet whose name was ever
mentioned with reference to any great political measure.  When I returned to Washington, Mr.
Stanton was Mr. Lincoln's leading minister, and, as Secretary of War, had practically the management
of the army and of the internal police.

I have spoken here of Mr. Seward by name, and in my preceding paragraphs I have alluded with
some asperity to the dishonesty of certain men who had obtained political power under Mr. Lincoln,
and used it for their own dishonest purposes.  I trust that I may not be understood as bringing
any such charges against Mr. Seward.  That such dishonesty has been frightfully prevalent all
men know who knew anything of Washington during the year 1861.  In a former chapter I have
alluded to this more at length, stating circumstances, and in some cases giving the names of
the persons charged with offenses. Whenever I have done so, I have based my statements on the
Van Wyck report, and the evidence therein given.  This is the published report of a committee
appointed by the house of Representatives; and as it has been before the world for some months
without refutation, I think that I have a right to presume it to be true.*  On no less authority
than this would I consider myself justified in bringing any such charge.  Of Mr. Seward's incompetency
I have heard very much among American politicians; much also of his ambition.  With worse offenses
than these I have not heard him charged.

* I ought perhaps to state that General Fremont has published an answer to the charges preferred
against him.  That answer refers chiefly to matters of military capacity or incapacity, as
to which I have expressed no opinion.  General Fremont does allude to the accusations made
against him regarding the building of the forts; but in doing so he seem to me rather to admit
than to deny the acts as stated by the committee.

At the period of which I am writing, February, 1862, the long list of military successes which
attended the Northern army through the late winter and early spring had commenced.  Fort henry,
on the Tennessee River, had first been taken, and after that, Fort Donelson, on the Cumberland
River, also in the State, Tennessee. Price had been driven out of Missouri into Arkansas by
General Curtis, acting under General Halleck's orders.  The chief body of the Confederate army
in the West had abandoned the fortified position which they had long held at Bowling Green,
in the southwestern district of Kentucky.  Roanoke Island, on the coast of North Carolina,
had been taken by General Burnside's expedition, and a belief had begun to manifest itself
in Washington that the army of the Potomac was really about to advance.  It is impossible to
explain in what way the renewed confidence of the Northern party showed itself, or how one
learned that the hopes of the secessionists were waxing dim; but it was so; and even a stranger
became aware of the general feeling as clearly as though it were a defined and established
fact.  In the early part of the winter, when I reached Washington, the feeling ran all the
other way.  Northern men did not say that they were despondent; they did not with spoken words
express diffidence as to their success; but their looks betrayed diffidence, and the moderation
of their self-assurance almost amounted to despondency.  In the capital the parties were very
much divided.  The old inhabitants were either secessionists or influenced by "secession proclivities,"
as the word went; but the men of the government and of the two Houses of Congress were, with
a few exceptions, of course Northern.  It should be understood that these parties were at variance
with each other on almost every point as to which men can disagree.  In our civil war it may
be presumed that all Englishmen were at any rate anxious for England.  They desired and fought
for different modes of government; but each party was equally English in its ambition.  In
the States there is the hatred of a different nationality added to the rancor of different
politics.  The Southerners desire to be a people of themselves--to divide themselves by every
possible mark of division from New England; to be as little akin to New York as they are to
London, or, if possible, less so.  Their habits, they say, are different; their education,
their beliefs, their propensities, their very virtues and vices are not the education, or the
beliefs, or the propensities, or the virtues and vices of the North.  The bond that ties them
to the North is to them a Mezentian marriage, and they hate their Northern spouses with a Mezentian
hatred.  They would be anything sooner than citizens of the United States.  They see to what
Mexico has come, and the republics of Central America; but the prospect of even that degradation
is less bitter to them than a share in the glory of the stars and stripes.  Better, with them,
to reign in hell than serve in heaven!  It is not only in politics that they will be beaten,
if they be beaten, as one party with us may be beaten by another; but they will be beaten as
we should be beaten if France annexed us, and directed that we should live under French rule.
Let an Englishman digest and realize that idea, and he will comprehend the feelings of a Southern
gentleman as he contemplates the probability that his State will be brought back into the Union.
And the Northern feeling is as strong.  The Northern man has founded his national ambition
on the territorial greatness of his nation.  He has panted for new lands, and for still extended
boundaries.  The Western World has opened her arms to him, and has seemed to welcome him as
her only lord.  British America has tempted him toward the north, and Mexico has been as a
prey to him on the south.  He has made maps of his empire, including all the continent, and
has preached the Monroe doctrine as though it had been decreed by the gods.  He has told the
world of his increasing millions, and has never yet known his store to diminish.  He has pawed
in the valley, and rejoiced in his strength.  He has said among the trumpets, ha! ha!  He has
boasted aloud in his pride, and called on all men to look at his glory.  And now shall he be
divided and shorn?  Shall he be hemmed in from his ocean, and shut off from his rivers?  Shall
he have a hook run into his nostrils, and a thorn driven into his jaw?  Shall men say that
his day is over, when he has hardly yet tasted the full cup of his success?  Has his young
life been a dream, and not a truth?  Shall he never reach that giant manhood which the growth
of his boyish years has promised him?  If the South goes from him, he will be divided, shorn,
and hemmed in.  The hook will have pierced his nose, and the thorn will fester in his jaw.
Men will taunt him with his former boastings, and he will awake to find himself but a mortal
among mortals.

Such is the light in which the struggle is regarded by the two parties, and such the hopes
and feelings which have been engendered. It may therefore be surmised with what amount of neighborly
love secessionists and Northern neighbors regarded each other in such towns as Baltimore and
Washington.  Of course there was hatred of the deepest dye; of course there were muttered curses,
or curses which sometimes were not simply muttered.  Of course there was wretchedness, heart-burnings,
and fearful divisions in families. That, perhaps, was the worst of all.  The daughter's husband
would be in the Northern ranks, while the son was fighting in the South; or two sons would
hold equal rank in the two armies, sometimes sending to each other frightful threats of personal
vengeance.  Old friends would meet each other in the street, passing without speaking; or,
worse still, would utter words of insult for which payment is to be demanded when a Southern
gentleman may again be allowed to quarrel in his own defense.

And yet society went on.  Women still smiled, and men were happy to whom such smiles were given.
Cakes and ale were going, and ginger was still hot in the mouth.  When many were together no
words of unhappiness were heard.  It was at those small meetings of two or three that women
would weep instead of smiling, and that men would run their hands through their hair and sit
in silence, thinking of their ruined hopes and divided children.

I have spoken of Southern hopes and Northern fears, and have endeavored to explain the feelings
of each party.  For myself I think that the Southerners have been wrong in their hopes, and
that those of the North have been wrong in their fears.  It is not better to rule in hell than
serve in heaven.  Of course a Southern gentleman will not admit the premises which are here
by me taken for granted.  The hell to which I allude is, the sad position of a low and debased
nation.  Such, I think, will be the fate of the Gulf States, if they succeed in obtaining secession--of
a low and debased nation, or, worse still, of many low and debased nations.  They will have
lost their cotton monopoly by the competition created during the period of the war, and will
have no material of greatness on which either to found themselves or to flourish.  That they
had much to bear when linked with the North, much to endure on account of that slavery from
which it was all but impossible that they should disentangle themselves, may probably be true.
But so have all political parties among all free nations much to bear from political opponents,
and yet other free nations do not go to pieces.  Had it been possible that the slaveowners
and slave properties should have been scattered in parts through all the States and not congregated
in the South, the slave party would have maintained itself as other parties do; but in such
case, as a matter of course, it would not have thought of secession.  It has been the close
vicinity of slaveowners to each other, the fact that their lands have been coterminous, that
theirs was especially a cotton district, which has tempted them to secession.  They have been
tempted to secession, and will, as I think, still achieve it in those Gulf States, much to
their misfortune.

And the fears of the North are, I think, equally wrong.  That they will be deceived as to that
Monroe doctrine is no doubt more than probable.  That ambition for an entire continent under
one rule will not, I should say, be gratified.  But not on that account need the nation be
less great, or its civilization less extensive.  That hook in its nose and that thorn in its
jaw will, after all, be but a hook of the imagination and an ideal thorn.  Do not all great
men suffer such ere their greatness be established and acknowledged?  There is scope enough
for all that manhood can do between the Atlantic and the Pacific, even though those hot, swampy
cotton fields be taken away; even though the snows of the British provinces be denied to them.
And as for those rivers and that sea-board, the Americans of the North will have lost much
of their old energy and usual force of will if any Southern confederacy be allowed to deny
their right of way or to stop their commercial enterprises.  I believe that the South will
be badly off without the North; but I feel certain that the North will never miss the South
when once the wounds to her pride have been closed.

From Washington I journeyed back to Boston through the cities which I had visited in coming
thither, and stayed again on my route, for a few days, at Baltimore, at Philadelphia, and at
New York.  At each town there were those whom I now regarded almost as old friends, and as
the time of my departure drew near I felt a sorrow that I was not to be allowed to stay longer.
As the general result of my sojourn in the country, I must declare that I was always happy
and comfortable in the Eastern cities, and generally unhappy and uncomfortable in the West.
I had previously been inclined to think that I should like the roughness of the West, and that
in the East I should encounter an arrogance which would have kept me always on the verge of
hot water; but in both these surmises I found myself to have been wrong.  And I think that
most English travelers would come to the same conclusion.  The Western people do not mean to
be harsh or uncivil, but they do not make themselves pleasant.  In all the Eastern cities--I
speak of the Eastern cities north of Washington--a society may be found which must be esteemed
as agreeable by Englishmen who like clever, genial men, and who love clever, pretty women.

I was forced to pass twice again over the road between New York and Boston, as the packet by
which I intended to leave America was fixed to sail from the former port.  I had promised myself,
and had promised others, that I would spend in Boston the last week of my sojourn in the States,
and this was a promise which I was by no means inclined to break.  If there be a gratification
in this world which has no alloy, it is that of going to an assured welcome.  The belief that
arms and hearts are open to receive one--and the arms and hearts of women, too, as far as they
allow themselves to open them--is the salt of the earth, the sole remedy against sea- sickness,
the only cure for the tedium of railways, the one preservative amid all the miseries and fatigue
of travail.  These matters are private, and should hardly be told of in a book; but in writing
of the States, I should not do justice to my own convictions of the country if I did not say
how pleasantly social intercourse there will ripen into friendship, and how full of love that
friendship may become.  I became enamored of Boston at last.  Beacon Street was very pleasant
to me, and the view over Boston Common was dear to my eyes.  Even the State House, with its
great yellow- painted dome, became sightly, and the sunset over the western waters that encompass
the city beats all other sunsets that I have seen.

During my last week there the world of Boston was moving itself on sleighs.  There was not
a wheel to be seen in the town.  The omnibuses and public carriages had been dismounted from
their axles and put themselves upon snow-runners, and the private world had taken out its winter
carriages, and wrapped itself up in buffalo robes.  Men now spoke of the coming thaw as of
a misfortune which must come, but which a kind Providence might perhaps postpone--as we all,
in short, speak of death.  In the morning the snow would have been hardened by the night's
frost, and men would look happy and contented.  By an hour after noon the streets would be
all wet and the ground would be slushy, and men would look gloomy and speak of speedy dissolution.
There were those who would always prophesy that the next day would see the snow converted into
one dull, dingy river.  Such I regarded as seers of tribulation, and endeavored with all my
mind to disbelieve their interpretations of the signs.  That sleighing was excellent fun. 
For myself I must own that I hardly saw the best of it at Boston, for the coming of the end
was already at hand when I arrived there, and the fresh beauty of the hard snow was gone. 
Moreover, when I essayed to show my prowess with a pair of horses on the established course
for such equipage, the beasts ran away, knowing that I was not practiced in the use of snow
chariots, and brought me to grief and shame.  There was a lady with me in the sleigh, whom,
for awhile, I felt that I was doomed to consign to a snowy grave--whom I would willingly have
overturned into a drift of snow, so as to avoid worse consequences, had I only known how to
do so.  But Providence, even though without curbs and assisted only by simple snaffles, did
at last prevail, and I brought the sleigh horses, and lady alive back to Boston, whether with
or without permanent injury I have never yet ascertained.

At last the day of tribulation came, and the snow was picked up and carted out of Boston. 
Gangs of men, standing shoulder to shoulder, were at work along the chief streets, picking,
shoveling, and disposing of the dirty blocks.  Even then the snow seemed to be nearly a foot
thick; but it was dirty, rough, half melted in some places, though hard as stone in others.
The labor and cost of cleansing the city in this way must be very great.  The people were at
it as I left, and I felt that the day of tribulation had in truth come.

Farewell to thee, thou Western Athens!  When I have forgotten thee, my right hand shall have
forgotten its cunning, and my heart forgotten its pulses.  Let us look at the list of names
with which Boston has honored itself in our days, and then ask what other town of the same
size has done more.  Prescott, Bancroft, Motley, Longfellow, Lowell, Emerson, Dana, Agassiz,
Holmes, Hawthorne!  Who is there among us in England who has not been the better for these
men?  Who does not owe to some of them a debt of gratitude?  In whose ears is not their names
familiar?  It is a bright galaxy, and far extended, for so small a city.  What city has done
better than this?  All these men, save one, are now alive and in the full possession of their
powers.  What other town of the same size has done as well in the same short space of time?
It may be that this is the Augustan era of Boston--its Elizabethan time.  If so, I am thankful
that my steps have wandered thither at such a period.

While I was at Boston I had the sad privilege of attending the funeral of President Felton,
the head of Harvard College.  A few months before I had seen him a strong man, apparently in
perfect health and in the pride of life.  When I reached Boston I heard of his death.  He also
was an accomplished scholar, and as a Grecian has left few behind him who were his equals.
At his installation as president, four ex-presidents of Harvard College assisted.  Whether
they were all present at his funeral I do not know, but I do know that they were all still
living.  These are Mr. Quincy, who is now over ninety; Mr. Sparks; Mr. Everett, the well-known
orator; and Mr. Walker.  They all reside in Boston or its neighborhood, and will probably all
assist at the installation of another president.

CHAPTER IX.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

It is, I presume, universally known that the citizens of the Western American colonies of Great
Britain which revolted, declared themselves to be free from British dominion by an act which
they called the Declaration of Independence.  This was done on the 4th of July, 1776, and was
signed by delegates from the thirteen colonies, or States as they then called themselves. 
These delegates in this document declare themselves to be the representatives of the United
States of America in general Congress assembled.  The opening and close of this declaration
have in them much that is grand and striking; the greater part of it, however, is given up
to enumerating, in paragraph after paragraph, the sins committed by George III. against the
colonies.  Poor George III.!  There is no one now to say a good word for him; but of all those
who have spoken ill of him, this declaration is the loudest in its censure.

In the following year, on the 15th of November, 1777, were drawn up the Articles of Confederation
between the States, by which it was then intended that a sufficient bond and compact should
be made for their future joint existence and preservation.  A reference to this document will
show how slight was the then intended bond of union between the States.  The second article
declares that each State retains its sovereignty, freedom, and independence. And the third
article, "the better to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship," declares that the free citizens
of one State shall be free citizens of another.  From this it is, I think, manifest that no
idea of one united nation had at that time been received and adopted by the citizens of the
States.  The articles then go on to define the way in which Congress shall assemble and what
shall be its powers.  This Congress was to exercise the authority of a national government
rather than perform the work of a national parliament.  It was intended to be executive rather
than legislative.  It was to consist of delegates, the very number of which within certain
limits was to be left to the option of the individual States, and to this Congress was to be
confided certain duties and privileges, which could not be performed or exercised separately
by the governments of the individual States.  I mention this to show how strong was the expectation
at that time that Canada also would revolt from England.  Up to this day few Americans can
understand why Canada has declined to join her lot to them.

But the compact between the different States made by the Articles of Confederation, and the
mode of national procedure therein enjoined, were found to be inefficient for the wants of
a people who to be great must be united in fact as well as in name.  The theory of the most
democratic among the Americans of that day was in favor of self-government carried to an extreme.
Self-government was the Utopia which they had determined to realize, and they were unwilling
to diminish the reality of the self-government of the individual States by any centralization
of power in one head, or in one parliament, or in one set of ministers for the nation.  For
ten years, from 1777 to 1787, the attempt was made; but then it was found that a stronger bond
of nationality was indispensable, if any national greatness was to be regarded as desirable.
Indeed, all manner of failure had attended the mode of national action ordained by the Articles
of Confederation.  I am not attempting to write a history of the United States, and will not
therefore trouble my readers with historic details, which are not of value unless put forward
with historic weight.  The fact of the failure is however admitted, and the present written
Constitution of the United States, which is the splendid result of that failure, was "Done
in Convention by the unanimous consent of the States present."*  Twelve States were present--Rhode
Island apparently having had no representative on the occasion--on the 17th of September, 1787,
and in the twelfth year of the Independence of the United States.

* It must not, however, be supposed that by this "doing in convention," the Constitution became
an accepted fact.  It simply amounted to the adoption of a proposal of the Constitution.  The
Constitution itself was formally adopted by the people in conventions held in their separate
State capitals.  It was agreed to by the people in 1788, and came into operation in 1789.

I call the result splendid, seeing that under this Constitution so written a nation has existed
for three-quarters of a century, and has grown in numbers, power, and wealth till it has made
itself the political equal of the other greatest nations of the earth.  And it cannot be said
that it has so grown in spite of the Constitution, or by ignoring the Constitution.  Hitherto
the laws there laid down for the national guidance have been found adequate for the great purpose
assigned to them, and have done all that which the framers of them hoped that they might effect.
We all know what has been the fate of the constitutions which were written throughout the French
Revolution for the use of France.  We all, here in England, have the same ludicrous conception
of Utopian theories of government framed by philosophical individuals who imagine that they
have learned from books a perfect system of managing nations.  To produce such theories is
especially the part of a Frenchman; to disbelieve in them is especially the part of an Englishman.
But in the States a system of government has been produced, under a written constitution, in
which no Englishman can disbelieve, and which every Frenchman must envy.  It has done its work.
The people have been free, well educated, and politically great.  Those among us who are most
inclined at the present moment to declare that the institutions of the United States have failed,
can at any rate only declare that they have failed in their finality; that they have shown
themselves to be insufficient to carry on the nation in its advancing strides through all times.
They cannot deny that an amount of success and prosperity, much greater than the nation even
expected for itself, has been achieved under this Constitution and in connection with it. If
it be so, they cannot disbelieve in it.  Let those who now say that it is insufficient, consider
what their prophecies regarding it would have been had they been called on to express their
opinions concerning it when it was proposed in 1787.  If the future as it has since come forth
had then been foretold for it, would not such a prophecy have been a prophecy of success? 
That Constitution is now at the period of its hardest trial, and at this moment one may hardly
dare to speak of it with triumph; but looking at the nation even in its present position, I
think I am justified in saying that its Constitution is one in which no Englishman can disbelieve.
When I also say that it is one which every Frenchman must envy, perhaps I am improperly presuming
that Frenchmen could not look at it with Englishmen's eyes.

When the Constitution came to be written, a man had arisen in the States who was peculiarly
suited for the work in hand: he was one of those men to whom the world owes much, and of whom
the world in general knows but little.  This was Alexander Hamilton, who alone on the part
of the great State of New York signed the Constitution of the United States.  The other States
sent two, three, four, or more delegates; New York sent Hamilton alone; but in sending him
New York sent more to the Constitution than all the other States together.  I should be hardly
saying too much for Hamilton if I were to declare that all those parts of the Constitution
emanated from him in which permanent political strength has abided.  And yet his name has not
been spread abroad widely in men's mouths.  Of Jefferson, Franklin, and Madison we have all
heard; our children speak of them, and they are household words in the nursery of history.
Of Hamilton, however, it may, I believe, be said that he was greater than any of those.

Without going with minuteness into the early contests of democracy in the United States, I
think I may say that there soon arose two parties, each probably equally anxious in the cause
of freedom, one of which was conspicuous for its French predilections and the other for its
English aptitudes.  It was the period of the French Revolution--the time when the French Revolution
had in it as yet something of promise and had not utterly disgraced itself.  To many in America
the French theory of democracy not unnaturally endeared itself and foremost among these was
Thomas Jefferson.  He was the father of those politicians in the States who have since taken
the name of Democrats, and in accordance with whose theory it has come to pass that everything
has been referred to the universal suffrage of the people.  James Madison, who succeeded Jefferson
as President, was a pupil in this school, as indeed have been most of the Presidents of the
United States.  At the head of the other party, from which through various denominations have
sprung those who now call themselves Republicans, was Alexander Hamilton.  I believe I may
say that all the political sympathies of George Washington were with the same school.  Washington,
however, was rather a man of feeling and of action than of theoretical policy or speculative
opinion.  When the Constitution was written Jefferson was in France, having been sent thither
as minister from the United States, and he therefore was debarred from concerning himself personally
in the matter.  His views, however, were represented by Madison; and it is now generally understood
that the Constitution as it stands is the joint work of Madison and Hamilton.*  The democratic
bias, of which it necessarily contains much, and without which it could not have obtained the
consent of the people, was furnished by Madison; but the conservative elements, of which it
possesses much more than superficial observers of the American form of government are wont
to believe, came from Hamilton.

* It should, perhaps, be explained that the views of Madison were originally not opposed to
those of Hamilton.  Madison, however, gradually adopted the policy of Jefferson--his policy
rather than his philosophy.

The very preamble of the Constitution at once declares that the people of the different States
do hereby join themselves together with the view of forming themselves into one nation.  Here
a great step was made toward centralization, toward one national government, and the binding
together of the States into one nation. But from that time down to the present the contest
has been going on, sometimes openly and sometimes only within the minds of men, between the
still alleged sovereignty of the individual States and the acknowledged sovereignty of the
central Congress and central government.  The disciples of Jefferson, even though they have
not known themselves to be his disciples, have been carrying on that fight for State rights
which has ended in secession; and the disciples of Hamilton, certainly not knowing themselves
to be his disciples, have been making that stand for central government, and for the one acknowledged
republic, which is now at work in opposing secession, and which, even though secession should
to some extent be accomplished, will, we may hope, nevertheless, and not the less on account
of such secession, conquer and put down the spirit of democracy.

The political contest of parties which is being waged now, and which has been waged throughout
the history of the United States, has been pursued on one side in support of that idea of an
undivided nationality of which I have spoken--of a nationality in which the interests of a
part should be esteemed as the interests of the whole; and on the other side it has been pursued
in opposition to that idea.  I will not here go into the interminable question of slavery--though
it is on that question that the Southern or democratic States have most loudly declared their
own sovereign rights and their aversion to national interference.  Were I to do so I should
fail in my present object of explaining the nature of the Constitution of the United States.
But I protest against any argument which shall be used to show that the Constitution has failed
because it has allowed slavery to produce the present division among the States.  I myself
think that the Southern or Gulf States will go.  I will not pretend to draw the exact line
or to say how many of them are doomed; but I believe that South Carolina, with Georgia and
perhaps five or six others, will be extruded from the Union.  But their very extrusion will
be a political success, and will in fact amount to a virtual acknowledgment in the body of
the Union of the truth of that system for which the conservative Republican party has contended.
If the North obtain the power of settling that question of boundary, the abandonment of those
Southern States will be a success, even though the privilege of retaining them be the very
point for which the North is now in arms.

The first clause of the Constitution declares that all the legislative powers granted by the
Constitution shall be vested in a Congress, which shall consist of a Senate and of a House
of Representatives.  The House of Representatives is to be rechosen every two years, and shall
be elected by the people, such persons in each State having votes for the national Congress
as have votes for the legislature of their own States.  If, therefore, South Carolina should
choose--as she has chosen--to declare that the electors of her own legislature shall possess
a property qualification, the electors of members of Congress from South Carolina must also
have that qualification.  In Massachusetts universal suffrage now prevails, although it is
not long since a low property qualification prevailed even in Massachusetts.  It therefore
follows that members of the House of Representatives in Congress need by no means be all chosen
on the same principle.  As a fact, universal suffrage* and vote by ballot, that is by open
voting papers, prevail in the States, but they do not so prevail by virtue of any enactment
of the Constitution.  The laws of the States, however, require that the voter shall have been
a resident in the State for some period, and generally either deny the right of voting to negroes,
or so hamper that privilege that practically it amounts to the same thing.

* Perhaps the better word would have been manhood suffrage; and even that word should be taken
with certain restrictions.  Aliens, minors, convicts, and men who pay no taxes cannot vote.
In some States none can vote unless they can read and write.  In some there is a property qualification.
In all there are special restrictions against negroes.  There is in none an absolutely universal
suffrage. But I keep the name as it best expresses to us in England the system of franchise
which has practically come to prevail in the United States.

The Senate of the United States is composed of two Senators from each State.  These Senators
are chosen for six years, and are elected in a manner which shows the conservative tendency
of the Constitution with more signification than perhaps any other rule which it contains.
This branch of Congress, which, as I shall presently endeavor to show, is by far the more influential
of the two, is not in any way elected by the people.  The Senate sent to Congress is therefore
elected by the State legislatures.  Each State legislature has two Houses and the Senators
sent from that State to Congress are either chosen by vote of the two Houses voting together--which
is, I believe, the mode adopted in most States, or are voted for in the two Houses separately--in
which cases, when different candidates have been nominated, the two Houses confer by committees
and settle the matter between them.  The conservative purpose of the Constitution is here sufficiently
evident.  The intention has been to take the election of the Senators away from the people,
and to confide it to that body in each State which may be regarded as containing its best trusted
citizens.  It removes the Senators far away from the democratic element, and renders them liable
to the necessity of no popular canvass.  Nor am I aware that the Constitution has failed in
keeping the ground which it intended to hold in this matter.  On some points its selected rocks
and chosen standing ground have slipped from beneath its feet, owing to the weakness of words
in defining and making solid the intended prohibitions against democracy.  The wording of the
Constitution has been regarded by the people as sacred; but the people has considered itself
justified in opposing the spirit as long as it revered the letter of the Constitution.  And
this was natural.  For the letter of the Constitution can be read by all men; but its spirit
can be understood comparatively but by few.  As regards the election of the Senators, I believe
that it has been fairly made by the legislatures of the different States.  I have not heard
it alleged that members of the State legislatures have been frequently constrained by the outside
popular voice to send this or that man as Senator to Washington.  It was clearly not the intention
of those who wrote the Constitution that they should be so constrained.  But the Senators themselves
in Washington have submitted to restraint.  On subjects in which the people are directly interested,
they submit to instructions from the legislatures which have sent them as to the side on which
they shall vote, and justify themselves in voting against their convictions by the fact that
they have received such instructions.  Such a practice, even with the members of a House which
has been directly returned by popular election, is, I think, false to the intention of the
system.  It has clearly been intended that confidence should be put in the chosen candidate
for the term of his duty, and that the electors are to be bound in the expression of their
opinion by his sagacity and patriotism for that term.  A member of a representative House so
chosen, who votes at the bidding of his constituency in opposition to his convictions, is manifestly
false to his charge, and may be presumed to be thus false in deference to his own personal
interests, and with a view to his own future standing with his constituents.  Pledges before
election may be fair, because a pledge given is after all but the answer to a question asked.
A voter may reasonably desire to know a candidate's opinion on any matter of political interest
before he votes for or against him.  The representative when returned should be free from the
necessity of further pledges.  But if this be true with a House elected by popular suffrage,
how much more than true must it be with a chamber collected together as the Senate of the United
States is collected!  Nevertheless, it is the fact that many Senators, especially those who
have been sent to the House as Democrats, do allow the State legislatures to dictate to them
their votes, and that they do hold themselves absolved from the personal responsibility of
their votes by such dictation.  This is one place in which the rock which was thought to have
been firm has slipped away, and the sands of democracy have made their way through.  But with
reference to this it is always in the power of the Senate to recover its own ground, and re-establish
its own dignity; to the people in this matter the words of the Constitution give no authority,
and all that is necessary for the recovery of the old practice is a more conservative tendency
throughout the country generally.  That there is such a conservative tendency, no one can doubt;
the fear is whether it may not work too quickly and go too far.

In speaking of these instructions given to Senators at Washington, I should explain that such
instructions are not given by all States, nor are they obeyed by all Senators.  Occasionally
they are made in the form of requests, the word "instruct" being purposely laid aside.  Requests
of the same kind are also made to Representatives, who, as they are not returned by the State
legislatures, are not considered to be subject to such instructions.  The form used is as follows:
"we instruct our Senators and request our representatives," etc. etc.

