I could not be less courteous than he and signified my assent.

"Your secretary," he said, "is of the opinion that your illness, while caused by your injuries
in the affrays into which you were entrapped, was greatly intensified by your chagrin at finding
yourself embroiled with both the Vedian and Satronian clans, and he also thinks that brooding
over the condition of affairs has delayed your recovery."

"I assumed all that," I interrupted, "but I cannot conceive why he has talked to you about it."

Capito was always ingratiating. He gazed at me reproachfully, gently, winningly.

"If I have your permission," he said, "I shall explain."

"Explain!" I cried impatiently.

"Agathemer," he went on, "has left no stone unturned to find some means for placating both
clans and for reconciling you with both. In pursuit of this aim he has been cautious, discreet,
tactful and secret. He has covertly tried many plans of approach. It was intimated to him,
truly, that I had on foot a scheme which promised to succeed in reconciling both clans with
each other and he rightly inferred that I might be able to arrange for reconciling both with
you at the same time. I am confident that I can, as I told him when he tentatively approached
me and unostentatiously sounded me on this matter. I told him that it was only necessary that
I have an interview with you as soon as might be. Believing that an early dissipation of your
embroilment would conduce to your quick and complete recovery he arranged for me to meet you
as I have."

While he was saying this my eyes roved about the garden. To my astonishment I saw a man standing
against the shut postern door, intently regarding us as we sat on the marble seat conferring.
In my half convalescent state I had become used to acquiescence in anything and everything,
I was inert mentally and physically and my perceptive faculties dulled and slow as were my
intellectual processes. While hearkening to Capito I gazed at the man uncomprehendingly, only
half conscious. I thought him a queer-looking fellow to be in Capito's retinue; he did not
look like a slave, but like a free man of the lowest class. I did not recognize him, yet it
seemed to me that I should; I did not like the way he looked at us, yet I said nothing. He
seemed to see me looking at him, opened the postern, stepped through it and shut it after him.
As he went I was shot through with the conviction that I had seen him somewhere before.

"If you have in you," I said to Capito, "any such supernatural powers as you would need for
success in what you aim at, if you have any reasons for anticipating success, Agathemer was
fully justified in what he has done. If you can really accomplish what you seem to believe
you can accomplish, I shall be grateful to you to the last breath I draw. But I am skeptical.
Speak on. Convince me."

"I must first," he said, "have your pledge of secrecy for what I am about to say."

"What sort of secrecy?" I queried, repelled and suspicious.

"If I am to disclose what I wish to disclose," he said, "you must give me your word not to
reveal by word, look, act or silence anything I may make known to you, from your pledge until
the termination of our interview."

I was uneasy, but curious. I gave my pledge as he asked.

He looked about, warily. He leaned closer to me. He spoke in a subdued tone.

"It must be known to you," he said, "that many of us nobles, many men of equestrian rank, many
senators, are gravely anxious concerning the Republic, gravely dissatisfied with the character
and behavior, I might say the misbehavior, of our present Prince."

"I don't wonder that you pledged me to secrecy," I blurted out. "You are talking treason."

"Hear me to the end," he begged, "and you will find that I am talking not treason but patriotism."

I grunted and he went on.

"Many of us are of the opinion that the Republic, which was never as prosperous as within the
past eighty years, is in grave danger of losing much of its Empire, so gloriously extended
by Trajan, so well maintained by his three successors, if it continues to be neglected and
mismanaged as it is. To save the commonwealth and retain its provinces we must have a Caesar
competent, diligent, discreet and brave; and not one of these epithets can be properly applied
to the autocrat now in power. We feel that he must be removed and that there must be substituted
for him a ruler who is all that the State needs and has the right to expect."

"Fine words," I said. "Masking a conspiracy to assassinate our Emperor."

He looked shocked and pained.

"Hear me out," he pleaded.

"I am curious, I confess," I admitted, "to learn what all this has to do with reconciling Vedius
and Satronius and regaining me the good graces of both. I ought to terminate the interview,
but I am weak. Go on."

"Naturally," he said, "both Vedius and Satronius resent what the Emperor did and said concerning
your entanglement in their feud and they are both infuriated at their humiliation and at the
effective means he took to tie their hands as far as concerns you and to ensure your safety,
as far as they were concerned."

"Commodus," I interrupted, "is not altogether a bungler when he gives his mind to the duties
of his office."

"May I go on?" Capito enquired, mildly, even reproachfully and, I might say, irresistibly.
He was a born leader of a conspiracy, for few men could be alone with him and not fall under
his influence.

"Go on," I said. "I am consumed with curiosity to discover how their rage at the Emperor could
lead to a reconciliation between them."

"It is not obvious, I admit," he said, "but when I explain, you will see how naturally, how
inevitably a reconciliation might be expected to result.

"You have seen, perhaps often, a peasant or laborer beating his wife?"

"Everybody has," I replied. "What has that to do with what you were talking of?"

"Be patient!" he pleaded. "You have seen some bystander interfere in such a domestic fracas?"

"Often," I agreed.

"You have also seen," he continued, "not only the husband turn on the outsider, but the wife
join her spouse in attacking her would-be rescuer, have seen both trounce the interloper and
in their mutual help forget their late antagonism."

"Certainly," I agreed.

"Well," he pursued, "human nature, male or female, low-life or high-life, is the same in essence.
Vedius and Satronius are so incensed with Caesar for balking their appetite for revenge on
you that they are thirsting for revenge on Caesar and ready to forget all their hereditary
animosities and join in abasing him. In fact, they have joined the league of patriots of which
I am the leader. And they are so bent on their new purpose that they are ready to be hearty
friends to anyone sworn as our confederate. I can arrange to obliterate, even to annihilate
forever, all trace of enmity between you and either of them, if you will but agree to let your
natural inherent patriotism overcome all other feelings in your heart and aid us to abolish
the shame of our Republic and to safeguard the Commonwealth and the Empire."

All this while I had been half listening to him, half occupied in trying to recall where I
had seen the man who had stepped through the postern. At this instant, as Capito paused, I
suddenly realized that he was the immobile horseman whom we had twice passed in the rain by
the roadside the morning I had started from my villa for Rome. His hooked nose was unmistakable.

Somehow this realization, along with the recollection of what Tanno had said of the fellow,
woke me to a sense of the danger to which I was exposed by being with Capito and also to a
sense of the craziness of his ideas and plans.

I felt my face redden.

