The result of the deliberation of the commissioners was a decision in July, 1647, in favor
of Connecticut. This was far from satisfying Massachusetts, and she reopened the question in
September, 1648. To enforce her arguments, she offered certain amendments to the confederation,
which, if adopted, would have shorn the commissioners of pretty nearly all their authority.
But the commissioners stood firm, and declared that "they found not sufficient cause to reverse
what was done last year."[11]

Feeling on both sides had now become quite embittered. At a special meeting of the federal
commissioners in July, 1649, Massachusetts renewed her objections, and during the discussions
her commissioners produced an order,[12] passed two months before by their general court, which,
reciting the decision against Springfield, laid a tax upon all articles imported to Boston
from any one of the other three confederate colonies, or exported to them from "any part of
the Bay." This proceeding was justly interpreted by the federal commissioners to mean not only
a retaliation upon Connecticut for the Saybrook tax, but a punishment upon the other two colonies--Plymouth
and New Haven--for taking her side in the court of the confederation.

The commissioners acted with dignified firmness, and forwarded to Massachusetts a remonstrance
in which they pointedly desired "to be spared in all further agitations concerning Springfield."[13]
Massachusetts reluctantly yielded and the next year repealed her impost,[14] while Connecticut
continued to tax the trade of Springfield till the ten years expired. Whether the tax imposed
by Connecticut was right or not, Massachusetts had, nevertheless, gone dangerously near to
nullification in these proceedings.

Not less interesting is the history of the dealings of the commissioners with the French and
Dutch. Encouraged by the favor which had been extended to him in Massachusetts, De la Tour
arrived in person in Boston, June 12, 1643, to crave assistance against D'Aulnay, his rival.
As, notwithstanding the French king's order of the previous year, he showed a commission from
the vice-admiral of France which styled him as lieutenant-general of Acadia, Governor Winthrop,
influenced by the merchants of Boston, whose cupidity was excited by the valuable fur trade
of Acadia, permitted him to hire both men and shipping in Massachusetts. When his preparations
were completed he sailed away, accompanied by a fleet of four ships and a pinnace, the property
of two intimate friends of the governor--Major Gibbons and Captain Hawkins--the latter of whom
went along in charge of the Puritan contingent.[15]

In permitting this expedition Winthrop not only violated the articles of confederation and
the laws of neutrality, but exposed himself to the reproach of Endicott and some of the more
straitlaced elders, that he consorted with "idolators" and "antichrists," as Puritans chose
to call Roman Catholics. It seems that Winthrop and his Boston friends did not intend to do
more than to restore De la Tour to St. Johns, which D'Aulnay was then besieging. But the original
wrong had its natural result. When D'Aulnay saw his rival's formidable fleet approaching he
promptly raised the blockade and made haste to get under the protection of his stronghold at
Port Royal. De la Tour followed and attacked, and, though he failed to dislodge his enemy,
with the assistance of the Boston men he killed several of D'Aulnay's soldiers, burned his
mill, and did much other damage.

After this, while D'Aulnay went to France to get fresh orders from the king against his rival,
De la Tour came to Massachusetts in May, 1644, in hopes of again interesting the Puritans there
in his fortunes. But John Endicott had been elected governor in the place of Winthrop, and
all the cheer De la Tour could get in return for permitting free-trade was the promise of a
letter addressed to D'Aulnay urging peace with De la Tour and protesting against the capture
of Massachusetts' trading vessels.[16]

In September, 1644, the federal commissioners met at Hartford, and showed dislike of the conduct
of ex-Governor Winthrop by passing a resolution to the effect that "no jurisdiction within
this confederation shall permit any voluntaries to go forth in a warlike way against any people
whatever without order and direction of the commissioners of the other jurisdictions." In the
mean while, D'Aulnay came back from France with fresh orders from the king for the arrest of
De la Tour, and in October, 1644, sent to Boston an envoy with the new credentials. The Massachusetts
authorities were reluctant to abandon De la Tour, but seeing no alternative they made a treaty
for free-trade, subject to confirmation by the federal commissioners.[17]

Still the ties that bound the Boston merchants to De la Tour were not wholly dissolved even
now. They gave an asylum to De la Tour's wife at Boston, and sent her with supplies to his
fort at Port Royal; and when the fort succumbed under D'Aulnay's attack they fitted her husband
out with a ship and truck for trading. At last De la Tour's dealings thoroughly opened their
eyes. When the ship came to Cape Sable, De la Tour and his Frenchmen suddenly arose against
the English crew, put them out in the woods, and seized and appropriated the vessel and cargo.
Prominent among those who had lent money and influence to De la Tour was Major Edward Gibbons,
who lost upward of £2500.

D'Aulnay retaliated and took a ship belonging to Massachusetts, and in September, 1646, a new
treaty was made with him by envoys representing the confederacy. The English made a formal
acknowledgment of error, and the French accepted in full satisfaction a present to D'Aulnay
of a sedan-chair, which had been sent as a present by the viceroy of Mexico to his sister,
but was captured in the West Indies by Cromwell and given by him to Governor Winthrop.[18]

In 1648 the colony of Massachusetts applied to the French officials at Quebec for a reciprocity
of trade. As the Iroquois had proved very destructive to the French and their Algonquin and
Huron allies, the French governor caught at the plan of granting the desired privileges in
return for military aid. Accordingly, in 1650, the French governor, D'Aillebout, sent the Jesuit
father Druillettes, who had acted as missionary among the Algonquins of Maine, as envoy to
Boston to negotiate a treaty.[19] But Massachusetts did not repeat the error of former times,
and would do nothing without consent of the federal commissioners. To them, therefore, the
matter was referred, with the result that the commissioners declined to involve the confederacy
in a war with the Iroquois by authorizing any assistance to be given the French privately or
officially.[20]

In the relations with the Dutch the temperate and conservative force in the confederacy was
Massachusetts, who took steady ground for peace and opposed hostile measures. In doing so,
however, she went the whole length of nullification and almost broke up the confederacy. William
Kieft, the governor of New Netherland (1637-1647), seemed to recognize at once the significance
of the confederacy as well as the importance of making friends with Massachusetts; and in July,
1643, before the commissioners had time to hold their first meeting, he wrote a letter of congratulations
to Governor Winthrop, which he loaded, however, with complaints against Connecticut for intruding
upon the land of the Dutch fort at Hartford. Governor Winthrop in reply assured Kieft that
the influence of Massachusetts would be on the side of peace, for that "the ground of difference
being only a small parcel of land" was a matter of too small value to cause a breach between
two people so nearly related as the Dutch and English.

When the federal commissioners met in September they showed a hostile spirit, and addressed
vehement letters to the Swedish and Dutch on account of their "foul injuries" offered the New
Haven settlers on the Delaware. In March, 1644, letters came from the Swedes and Dutch full
of expressions of regard for the English and "particularly for Massachusetts." They promised
to refrain from interfering with visitors who should bring authority from the commissioners,
which so encouraged some Boston merchants that they sent to the Delaware a pinnace to search
for a great lake reported to be its source. But when they arrived at the Delaware, the Swedish
and Dutch governors, while telling the captain that he might go up the river as far as he chose,
prohibited him from any trafficking with the Indians, which caused the return of the pinnace
to Boston. After this the war which Kieft provoked with the Indians so occupied the Dutch that
for two years they had no time to give attention to their English neighbors. So hard pressed
were they that, instead of making further reclamations on New Haven, they earnestly but unsuccessfully
solicited her aid. After great losses to both the Dutch and the Indians the Mohawks intervened
as arbitrators, and brought about a peace in September, 1645.[21]

In 1646 the men of New Haven set up a trading-house near the mouth of the Housatonic, and thereupon
Kieft wrote to the commissioners, who met at New Haven in April, 1646, a blustering letter
of which the following is a good sample: "We protest against all you commissioners met at the
Red Mount (New Haven) as against breakers of the common league, and also infringers of the
rights of the lords, the states, our superiors, in that you have dared, without our express
and especial consent, to hold your general meeting within the limits of New Netherland."[22]
At the close of Kieft's administration in 1647 the whole province of New Netherland could furnish
not more than three hundred fighting-men and contained a population of not more than two thousand.
Compared with the population of New England these figures seem insignificant enough, and render
highly improbable the story popular with some New England historians that the Dutch were enlisted
in a great scheme of uprooting the English colonies.

In 1647 Peter Stuyvesant was sent over as governor. He had the sense to see that the real safety
of the Dutch consisted not in bluster, but in settling a line between the possessions of the
two nations as soon as possible. The charter of the West India Company called for the territory
between forty and forty-five degrees north latitude, but to assert the full extent of the patent
would have been to claim the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. Accordingly, Stuyvesant, soon after
his arrival, addressed a letter to Governor Winthrop, asserting the Dutch claim to all the
land between the Connecticut and Delaware and proposing a conference. But it is evident that
in claiming the Connecticut he was actuated more by a hope of deterring the further aggressions
of English settlers than otherwise. The federal commissioners returned a polite reply, but
showed no anxiety to come to an accommodation. Soon after a fresh quarrel broke out with New
Haven, and in March, 1648, Stuyvesant wrote to the governor of Massachusetts offering to submit
to him and the governor of Plymouth the matter in dispute. He then wrote home for instructions,
and as diplomatic relations between England and Holland were suspended, the West India Company
bade him make such terms as he could with his English neighbors.[23]

Accordingly, in September, 1650, Stuyvesant visited Hartford while the federal commissioners
were in session there. The discussions were carried on in writing, and Stuyvesant dated his
letter at "New Netherland." The federal commissioners declined to receive this letter, and
Stuyvesant changed the address to "Connecticut." This proving satisfactory to the commissioners,
Stuyvesant set out his territorial claim and the imputed wrongs suffered by the Dutch from
the English, and the federal commissioners rejoined in a similar manner. Then Stuyvesant proposed
to refer the question in dispute to four arbitrators, all Englishmen, two to be appointed by
himself and two by the federal commissioners.

The offer was accepted, and after a full hearing by these arbitrators, Thomas Willet, George
Baxter, Simon Bradstreet, and Thomas Prince, declined to decide upon the wrongs complained
of by either party and rendered an award upon the territorial question only. They decided that
the Dutch should retain their fort on the Connecticut, and that the boundary should begin at
a point on the west side of Greenwich Bay, about four miles from Stamford, and run due north
twenty miles. From that point it should be extended as the Dutch and New Haven might agree,
provided that the line should not come nearer the Hudson River than ten miles. The English
obtained most of Long Island besides, for in that quarter the line was declared to be a meridian
drawn through the westernmost part of Oyster Bay.[24] If these terms subjected Stuyvesant to
severe criticism at New Amsterdam, it was really a stroke of statesmanship to obtain, even
at a sacrifice, what was for the first time an international barrier to English intrusion.

The southern flank of New Netherland was left unprotected, and in 1651 New Haven once more
endeavored to plant a colony on the Delaware. The failure of the former attempt bore heavily
upon the wealthy merchants of the town, and they had ill luck in another adventure. In January,
1646, they sent an agent to England to solicit a charter from the English government. The ship
in which he sailed carried seventy other prominent citizens of the place and a cargo valued
at £5000. A great storm ensued after the ship's departure and she was lost at sea.[25] So disheartening
was this misfortune that many at New Haven entertained the idea of removing to the West Indies
or Ireland.

Now, in 1651, under a commission from Governor Eaton, fifty men from New Haven prepared to
sail for the Delaware.[26] Their ship touched at New Amsterdam, and Stuyvesant arrested both
passengers and officers, and only released them on their promise to return home. The adventurers
appealed to the commissioners, and these officials wrote a letter to Stuyvesant protesting
against his course.[27]

Next year war broke out between Holland and England, and the war spirit spread to this side
of the ocean. Rumors got afloat that the Dutch and Indians had conspired against the English,
and Connecticut and New Haven became hysterical for war; while Rhode Island commissioned John
Underhill, lately escaped from the Dutch, to take all Dutch vessels he could find.[28] Stuyvesant
indignantly denied the charge of conspiring with the Indians, and proposed to refer the examination
of the facts to any impartial tribunal. Nevertheless, all the old complaints were revived.

In 1652 the federal commissioners resolved on hostilities,[29] but the Massachusetts general
court, which had all along taken a position in favor of peace, refused to be bound by a vote
of six commissioners representing Plymouth, Connecticut, and New Haven.[30] On the other hand,
the commissioners of the three smaller colonies protested against the conduct of the court
of Massachusetts as violating the confederation.[31] New Haven and Connecticut took measures
to wage war on their own account,[32] and in April, 1654, Connecticut sequestered the Dutch
fort at Hartford.[33]

When, in June, 1654, a fleet despatched by Cromwell, in response to appeals made to him, appeared
in Boston harbor, Connecticut and New Haven were overjoyed, and proceeded with alacrity to
make arrangements for an attack on the hated Dutch. Massachusetts refused to raise troops,
although she gave her citizens privilege to enlist if they chose. Yet her policy of peace prevailed
in the end, for before the preparations described could be completed a stop was put to them
by the news that a treaty of peace had been signed between England and Holland April 5, 1654.[34]

Massachusetts had successfully nullified the plain provisions of the articles, and for a time
it looked as if the dissolution of the confederacy would be the consequence. New Haven voted
at first not to choose commissioners, but finally decided to do so,[35] and meetings of the
commissioners went on apparently as before. Nevertheless, the effect of the action of Massachusetts
was far-reaching--from that time the respective colonies diverged more and more, till the hope
of a permanent intercolonial bond vanished.

[Footnote 1: Winthrop, New England, I., 283, 342-344.]

[Footnote 2: Winthrop, New England, II., 95, 99, 102, 121-127.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., 121.]

[Footnote 4: Simplicities Defence (Force, Tracts, IV., No. vi., 93).]

[Footnote 5: Winthrop, New England, II., 203, 243, 301, 463.]

[Footnote 6: Plymouth Col. Records, IX., 32-49.]

[Footnote 7: Palfrey, New England, II., 187-198, 332-341, III., 141; Hutchinson, Massachusetts
Bay, I., 153.]

[Footnote 8: Winthrop, New England, II., 325.]

[Footnote 9: Palfrey, New England, II., 234.]

[Footnote 10: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 508.]

[Footnote 11: Ibid., 165, 166; Palfrey, New England, II., 240-249.]

[Footnote 12: Mass. Col. Records, III., 152.]

[Footnote 13: Plymouth Col. Records, IX., 158.]

[Footnote 14: Mass. Col. Records, IV., pt. i., II.]

[Footnote 15: Winthrop, New England, II., 128, 130, 153.]

[Footnote 16: Winthrop, New England, II., 163, 180, 219, 220.]

[Footnote 17: Plymouth Col. Records, IX., 59.]

[Footnote 18: Winthrop, New England, II., 244, 335.]

[Footnote 19: Parkman, Jesuits, 327-335.]

[Footnote 20: Hutchinson, Massachusetts Bay, I., 156-158.]

[Footnote 21: Winthrop, New England, II., 155, 157, 169, 189, 193, 229; Brodhead, New York,
I., 409.]

[Footnote 22: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 158.]

[Footnote 23: Winthrop, New England, II., 382, 395; Brodhead, New York, I. 499.]

[Footnote 24: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 189-192.]

[Footnote 25: Winthrop, New England, II., 325, 337.]

[Footnote 26: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 196.]

[Footnote 27: Plymouth Col. Records, IX., 210-215.]

[Footnote 28: R.I. Col. Records, I., 266.]

[Footnote 29: Plymouth Col. Records, X., 102.]

[Footnote 30: Mass. Col. Records, III., 311.]

[Footnote 31: New Haven Col. Records, II., 36.]

[Footnote 32: Ibid., 37]

[Footnote 33: Conn. Col. Records, I., 254.]

[Footnote 34: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 219, 220.]

[Footnote 35: New Haven Col. Records, II., iii.]

CHAPTER XIX

EARLY NEW ENGLAND LIFE

(1624-1652)

During the civil war in England the sympathies of Massachusetts, of course, were with Parliament.
New England ministers were invited to attend the Westminster assembly of divines held in September,
1642, and several of them returned to England. The most prominent was Rev. Hugh Peter, who
was instrumental in procuring the decapitation of Charles I., and paid for the offence, on
the restoration of Charles II., with his own life. In 1643 Parliament passed an act[1] freeing
all commodities carried between England and New England from the payment of "any custom, subsidy,
taxation, imposition, or other duty."

