'So that is what my dream meant! Pashenka is what I ought to have been but failed to be. I
lived for men on the pretext of living for God, while she lived for God imagining that she
lives for men. Yes, one good deed--a cup of water given without thought of reward--is worth
more than any benefit I imagined I was bestowing on people. But after all was there not some
share of sincere desire to serve God?' he asked himself, and the answer was: 'Yes, there was,
but it was all soiled and overgrown by desire for human praise. Yes, there is no God for the
man who lives, as I did, for human praise. I will now seek Him!'

And he walked from village to village as he had done on his way to Pashenka, meeting and parting
from other pilgrims, men and women, and asking for bread and a night's rest in Christ's name.
Occasionally some angry housewife scolded him, or a drunken peasant reviled him, but for the
most part he was given food and drink and even something to take with him. His noble bearing
disposed some people in his favour, while others on the contrary seemed pleased at the sight
of a gentleman who had come to beggary.

But his gentleness prevailed with everyone.

Often, finding a copy of the Gospels in a hut he would read it aloud, and when they heard him
the people were always touched and surprised, as at something new yet familiar.

When he succeeded in helping people, either by advice, or by his knowledge of reading and writing,
or by settling some quarrel, he did not wait to see their gratitude but went away directly
afterwards. And little by little God began to reveal Himself within him.

Once he was walking along with two old women and a soldier. They were stopped by a party consisting
of a lady and gentleman in a gig and another lady and gentleman on horseback. The husband was
on horseback with his daughter, while in the gig his wife was driving with a Frenchman, evidently
a traveller.

The party stopped to let the Frenchman see the pilgrims who, in accord with a popular Russian
superstition, tramped about from place to place instead of working.

They spoke French, thinking that the others would not understand them.

'Demandez-leur,' said the Frenchman, 's'ils sont bien sur de ce que leur pelerinage est agreable
a Dieu.'

The question was asked, and one old woman replied:

'As God takes it. Our feet have reached the holy places, but our hearts may not have done so.'

They asked the soldier. He said that he was alone in the world and had nowhere else to go.

They asked Kasatsky who he was.

'A servant of God.'

'Qu'est-ce qu'il dit? Il ne repond pas.'

'Il dit qu'il est un serviteur de Dieu. Cela doit etre un fils de preetre. Il a de la race.
Avez-vous de la petite monnaie?'

The Frenchman found some small change and gave twenty kopeks to each of the pilgrims.

'Mais dites-leur que ce n'est pas pour les cierges que je leur donne, mais pour qu'ils se regalent
de the. Chay, chay pour vous, mon vieux!' he said with a smile. And he patted Kasatsky on the
shoulder with his gloved hand.

'May Christ bless you,' replied Kasatsky without replacing his cap and bowing his bald head.

He rejoiced particularly at this meeting, because he had disregarded the opinion of men and
had done the simplest, easiest thing--humbly accepted twenty kopeks and given them to his comrade,
a blind beggar. The less importance he attached to the opinion of men the more did he feel
the presence of God within him.

