CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION.

A Series of Essays.

BY

ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE,

AUTHOR OF

"THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO," ETC., ETC.

SECOND EDITION, WITH CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS.

New York:

MACMILLAN AND CO.

1871.

[The Right of Translation and Reproduction is reserved.]

LONDON:

PRINTED BY HEAD, HOLE & CO., FARRINGDON STREET,

AND IVY LANE, E.C.

PREFACE.

The present volume consists of essays which I have contributed to various periodicals, or read
before scientific societies during the last fifteen years, with others now printed for the
first time. The two first of the series are printed without alteration, because, having gained
me the reputation of being an independent originator of the theory of "natural selection,"
they may be considered to have some historical value. I have added to them one or two very
short explanatory notes, and have given headings to subjects, to make them uniform with the
rest of the book. The other essays have been carefully corrected, often considerably enlarged,
and in some cases almost rewritten, so as to express more fully and more clearly the views
which I hold at the present time; and as most of them originally appeared in publications which
have a very limited circulation, I believe that the larger portion of this volume will be new
to many of my friends and to most of my readers.

I now wish to say a few words on the reasons which have led me to publish this work. The second
essay, especially when taken in connection with the first, contains an outline sketch of the
theory of the origin of species (by means of what was afterwards termed by Mr. Darwin--"natural
selection,") as conceived by me before I had the least notion of the scope and nature of Mr.
Darwin's labours. They were published in a way not likely to attract the attention of any but
working naturalists, and I feel sure that many who have heard of them, have never had the opportunity
of ascertaining how much or how little they really contain. It therefore happens, that, while
some writers give me more credit than I deserve, others may very naturally class me with Dr.
Wells and Mr. Patrick Matthew, who, as Mr. Darwin has shown in the historical sketch given
in the 4th and 5th Editions of the "Origin of Species," certainly propounded the fundamental
principle of "natural selection" before himself, but who made no further use of that principle,
and failed to see its wide and immensely important applications.

The present work will, I venture to think, prove, that I both saw at the time the value and
scope of the law which I had discovered, and have since been able to apply it to some purpose
in a few original lines of investigation. But here my claims cease. Far abler men than myself
may confess, that they have not that untiring patience in accumulating, and that wonderful
skill in using, large masses of facts of the most varied kind,--that wide and accurate physiological
knowledge,--that acuteness in devising and skill in carrying out experiments,--and that admirable
style of composition, at once clear, persuasive and judicial,--qualities, which in their harmonious
combination mark out Mr. Darwin as the man, perhaps of all men now living, best fitted for
the great work he has undertaken and accomplished.

My own more limited powers have, it is true, enabled me now and then to seize on some conspicuous
group of unappropriated facts, and to search out some generalization which might bring them
under the reign of known law; but they are not suited to that more scientific and more laborious
process of elaborate induction, which in Mr. Darwin's hands has led to such brilliant results.

Another reason which has led me to publish this volume at the present time is, that there are
some important points on which I differ from Mr. Darwin, and I wish to put my opinions on record
in an easily accessible form, before the publication of his new work, (already announced,)
in which I believe most of these disputed questions will be fully discussed.

I will now give the date and mode of publication of each of the essays in this volume, as well
as the amount of alteration they have undergone.

I.--ON THE LAW WHICH HAS REGULATED THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW SPECIES.

First published in the "Annals and Magazine of Natural History," September, 1855. Reprinted
without alteration of the text.

II.--ON THE TENDENCY OF VARIETIES TO DEPART INDEFINITELY FROM THE ORIGINAL TYPE.

First published in the "Journal of the Proceedings of the Linnæan Society," August, 1858. Reprinted
without alteration of the text, except one or two grammatical emendations.

III.--MIMICRY AND OTHER PROTECTIVE RESEMBLANCES AMONG ANIMALS.

First published in the "Westminster Review," July, 1867. Reprinted with a few corrections and
some important additions, among which I may especially mention Mr. Jenner Weir's observations
and experiments on the colours of the caterpillars eaten or rejected by birds.

IV.--THE MALAYAN PAPILIONIDÆ, OR SWALLOW-TAILED BUTTERFLIES, AS ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE THEORY
OF NATURAL SELECTION.

First published in the "Transactions of the Linnæan Society," Vol. XXV.

The introductory part of this essay is now reprinted, omitting tables, references to plates,
&c., with some additions, and several corrections. Owing to the publication of Dr. Felder's
"Voyage of the Novara" (Lepidoptera) in the interval between the reading of my paper and its
publication, several of my new species must have their names changed for those given to them
by Dr. Felder, and this will explain the want of agreement in some cases between the names
used in this volume and those of the original paper.

V.--ON INSTINCT IN MAN AND ANIMALS.

Not previously published.

VI.--THE PHILOSOPHY OF BIRDS' NESTS.

First published in the "Intellectual Observer," July, 1867. Reprinted with considerable emendations
and additions.

VII.--A THEORY OF BIRDS' NESTS; SHOWING THE RELATION OF CERTAIN DIFFERENCES OF COLOUR IN BIRDS
TO THEIR MODE OF NIDIFICATION.

First published in the "Journal of Travel and Natural History" (No. 2), 1868. Now reprinted
with considerable emendations and additions, by which I have endeavoured more clearly to express,
and more fully to illustrate, my meaning in those parts which have been misunderstood by my
critics.

VIII.--CREATION BY LAW.

First published in the "Quarterly Journal of Science," October, 1867. Now reprinted with a
few alterations and additions.

IX.--THE DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN RACES UNDER THE LAW OF NATURAL SELECTION.

First published in the "Anthropological Review," May, 1864. Now reprinted with a few important
alterations and additions. I had intended to have considerably extended this essay, but on
attempting it I found that I should probably weaken the effect without adding much to the argument.
I have therefore preferred to leave it as it was first written, with the exception of a few
ill-considered passages which never fully expressed my meaning. As it now stands, I believe
it contains the enunciation of an important truth.

X.--THE LIMITS OF NATURAL SELECTION AS APPLIED TO MAN.

This is the further development of a few sentences at the end of an article on "Geological
Time and the Origin of Species," which appeared in the "Quarterly Review," for April, 1869.
I have here ventured to touch on a class of problems which are usually considered to be beyond
the boundaries of science, but which, I believe, will one day be brought within her domain.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the convenience of those who are acquainted with any of my essays in their original form,
I subjoin references to the more important additions and alterations now made to them.

ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS TO THE ESSAYS AS ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED.

Essays I. and II. are unaltered, but short notes are added at pp. 19, 24, 29, and 40.

III.--Mimicry, and other Protective Resemblances among Animals.

 PAGE

   53  Additional illustration of protective colouring in the case of
       the wood-dove and the robin.

   63  On moths resembling bird's dung and mortar.

   86  Correction of some names of African Papilios and a reference to
       Mr. Trimen's observations.

   89  Mr. Jenner Weir's observation on birds which refused to eat
       Spilosoma menthrasti.

  102  An additional case of snake mimicry in Oxyrhopus trigeminus.

  107  Mr. Salvin's case of mimicry among hawks.

  113  Name, Diadema anomala, added.

  117 to 122.  Use of gay colours in caterpillars, with an account of
       Mr. Jenner Weir's and Mr. Butler's observations.

  135 to 140.  Additions to the discussion on the rank of the
       Papilionidæ, and on the principles which determine the
       comparative rank of groups in the animal kingdom.

  164  Illustration of variability from Mr. Baker's revision of the
       British Roses.

  173  Additional facts, on local variations of colour.

  196  Additional genus of birds (Ceycopsis) peculiar to Celebes.

  199, 200.  Concluding remarks.

VI.--The Philosophy of Birds' Nests.

  218  On nesting of Terns and Gulls, rewritten.

  220 to 222.  Daines Barrington, and others, on the song of birds.

  223  On young birds learning to build, by memory and imitation.

  224  Levaillant, on mode of nest-building.

  229  On imperfect adaptation in birds' nests.

VII.--A Theory of Birds' Nests.

  231, 232.  Introductory passages modified, with some omissions.

  233  How modifications of organization would affect the form of the
       nest.

  235  Illustration from the habits of children and savages.

  235, 236.  Objection to term "hereditary habit" answered.

  237  Passage rewritten, on more or less variable characters in
       relation to nidification.

  248  On males choosing or rejecting females, and on the various modes
       in which colour may be acquired by female birds.

  249  On probable ancestral colours of female birds.

  255  Protective colouring of the Waxwing.

VIII.--Creation by Law.

  293  Amount of variation in dogs.

  296, 297.  The "Times" on Natural Selection.

  298 to 300.  On intermediate or generalized forms of extinct animals
       as an indication of transmutation or development.

  302  Tabular demonstration of the Origin of Species by Natural
       Selection.

IX.--The development of Human Races, under the law of Natural Selection.

  316  On colour as perhaps correlated with immunity from disease in
       man.

  326, 327.  On the probable future development of man.

  330  Concluding paragraph rewritten.

London, March, 1870.

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.

The flattering reception of my Essays by the public and the press having led to a second edition
being called for within a year of its first publication, I have taken the opportunity to make
a few necessary corrections. I have also added a few passages to the 6th and 7th Essays, and
have given two notes, explanatory of some portions of the last chapter which appear to have
been not always understood. These additions are as follows:--

  +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
  | To avoid altering the paging the additional pages now given have |
  |     been lettered.                                               |
  +---------+---------+-----------------------------------------------+
  | 1st Ed. | 2nd Ed. |                                               |
  +---------+---------+                                               |
  |  221    |  221    |    Additional facts as to birds acquiring     |
  |         |         |      the song of other species.               |
  |         |         |                                               |
  |  223    |  223A } |    Mr. Spruce's remarks on young birds        |
  |         |  223B } |      pairing with old.                        |
  |         |         |                                               |
  |  228    |  228A } |    Pouchet's observations on a change         |
  |         |  228B } |      in the nests of swallows.                |
  |         |         |                                               |
  |  229    |   --    |   Passage omitted about nest of Golden        |
  |         |         |     Crested Warbler, which had been           |
  |         |         |     inserted on Rennie's authority, but       |
  |         |         |     has not been confirmed by any later       |
  |         |         |     observers.                                |
  |         |         |                                               |
  |  261    |  261    |   Daines Barrington, on importance of         |
  |         |         |     protection to the female bird.            |
  |         |         |                                               |
  |         |  372    |   Note A.                                     |
  |         |         |                                               |
  |         |  372B   |   Note B.                                     |
  +---------+---------+-----------------------------------------------+

CONTENTS.

 I.--On the Law which has regulated the introduction of New
     Species.                                                Pp. 1-25

    Geographical distribution dependent on Geologic Changes

    A Law deduced from well-known Geographical and Geological facts

    The form of a true system of Classification determined by this Law

    Geographical Distribution of Organisms

    Geological Distribution of the forms of Life

    High Organization of very ancient Animals consistent with this Law

    Objections to Forbes' Theory of Polarity

    Rudimentary Organs

    Conclusion

 II.--On the Tendency of Varieties to depart indefinitely from the
      Original Type.                                        Pp. 26-44

    Instability of Varieties supposed to prove the permanent
    distinctness of Species

    The Struggle for Existence

    The Law of Population of Species

    The Abundance or Rarity of a Species dependent upon its more or less
    perfect Adaptation to the Conditions of Existence

    Useful Variations will tend to Increase, useless or hurtful
    Variations to Diminish

    Superior Varieties will ultimately extirpate the Original Species

    The Partial Reversion of Domesticated Varieties explained

    Lamarck's Hypothesis very different from that now advanced

    Conclusion

 III.--Mimicry, and other Protective Resemblances among
       Animals.    Pp. 130-200

    Special value of the Diurnal Lepidoptera for inquiries of this
    Nature

    Question of the rank of the Papilionidæ

    Distribution of the Papilionidæ

    Definition of the word Species

    Laws and Modes of Variation

        Simple Variability

        Polymorphism or Dimorphism

        Local form or variety

        Co-existing Variety

        Race or Subspecies

        Species

    Variation as specially influenced by Locality

        Local Variation of Size

        Local Variation of Form

        Local Variations of Colour

    Remarks on the facts of Local Variation

    Mimicry

    Concluding Remarks on Variation in Lepidoptera

    Arrangement and Geographical Distribution of the Malayan Papilionidæ

        Arrangement

        Geographical Distribution

    Range of the Groups of Malayan Papilionidæ

    Remarkable peculiarities of the island of Celebes

    Concluding Remarks

 V.--On Instinct in Man and Animals.                     Pp. 201-210

    How Instinct may be best Studied

    Definition of Instinct

    Does Man possess Instincts?

    How Indians travel through unknown and trackless Forests

 VI.--The Philosophy of Birds' Nests.                    Pp. 211-230

    Instinct or Reason in the Construction of Birds' Nests

    Do Men build by Reason or by Imitation?

    Why does each Bird build a peculiar kind of Nest?

    How do young Birds learn to build their first Nest?

    Do Birds sing by Instinct or by Imitation?

    Man's Works mainly Imitative

    How young Birds may learn to build Nests.                                      Pp. 231-263

    Changed Conditions and persistent Habits as influencing Nidification

    Classification of Nests

    Sexual differences of Colour in Birds

    The Law which connects the Colours of Female Birds with the mode of
    Nidification

    What the Facts Teach us Colour more variable than Structure or
    Habits, and therefore the Character which has generally been
    modified

    Exceptional cases confirmatory of the above Explanation

    Real or apparent exceptions to the Law stated at p. 240

    Various modes of Protection of Animals

    Females of some groups require and obtain more Protection than the
    Males

    Conclusion

 VIII.--Creation by Law.                                          Pp. 302-331

    Wide difference of Opinion as to Man's Origin

    Outline of the Theory of Natural Selection

    Different effects of Natural Selection on Animals and on Man

    Influence of External Nature in the development of the Human Mind

    Extinction of Lower Races

    The Origin of the Races of Man

    The Bearing of these views on the Antiquity of Man

    Their Bearing on the Dignity and Supremacy of Man

    Their Bearing on the future Development of Man

    Summary

    Conclusion

 X.--The Limits of Natural Selection as applied to Man. Pp. 333--371

    What Natural Selection can Not do

    The Brain of the Savage shown to be Larger than he Needs it to be

        Size of Brain an important Element of Mental Power

        Comparison of the Brains of Man and of Anthropoid Apes

        Range of intellectual power in Man

        Intellect of Savages and of Animals compared

    The use of the Hairy Covering of Mammalia

    The Constant absence of Hair from certain parts of Man's body a
    remarkable Phenomenon

    Savage Man feels the want of this Hairy Covering

    Man's Naked Skin could not have been produced by Natural Selection

    Feet and Hands of Man considered as Difficulties on the Theory of
    Natural Selection

    The Origin of Some of Man's Mental Faculties, by the preservation of
    Useful Variations, not possible

    Difficulty as to the Origin of the Moral Sense

    Summary of the Argument as to the Insufficiency of Natural Selection
    to account for the Development of Man

    The Origin of Consciousness

    The Nature of Matter

        Matter is Force

        All Force is probably Will-force

    Conclusion

I.

ON THE LAW WHICH HAS REGULATED THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW SPECIES.[A]

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  | [A] Written at Sarawak in February, 1855, and published in   |
  | the "Annals and Magazine of Natural History," September,     |
  | 1855.                                                        |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Geographical Distribution dependent on Geologic Changes.

The facts proved by geology are briefly these:--That during an immense, but unknown period,
the surface of the earth has undergone successive changes; land has sunk beneath the ocean,
while fresh land has risen up from it; mountain chains have been elevated; islands have been
formed into continents, and continents submerged till they have become islands; and these changes
have taken place, not once merely, but perhaps hundreds, perhaps thousands of times:--That
all these operations have been more or less continuous, but unequal in their progress, and
during the whole series the organic life of the earth has undergone a corresponding alteration.
This alteration also has been gradual, but complete; after a certain interval not a single
species existing which had lived at the commencement of the period. This complete renewal of
the forms of life also appears to have occurred several times:--That from the last of the geological
epochs to the present or historical epoch, the change of organic life has been gradual: the
first appearance of animals now existing can in many cases be traced, their numbers gradually
increasing in the more recent formations, while other species continually die out and disappear,
so that the present condition of the organic world is clearly derived by a natural process
of gradual extinction and creation of species from that of the latest geological periods. We
may therefore safely infer a like gradation and natural sequence from one geological epoch
to another.

Now, taking this as a fair statement of the results of geological inquiry, we see that the
present geographical distribution of life upon the earth must be the result of all the previous
changes, both of the surface of the earth itself and of its inhabitants. Many causes, no doubt,
have operated of which we must ever remain in ignorance, and we may, therefore, expect to find
many details very difficult of explanation, and in attempting to give one, must allow ourselves
to call into our service geological changes which it is highly probable may have occurred,
though we have no direct evidence of their individual operation.

The great increase of our knowledge within the last twenty years, both of the present and past
history of the organic world, has accumulated a body of facts which should afford a sufficient
foundation for a comprehensive law embracing and explaining them all, and giving a direction
to new researches. It is about ten years since the idea of such a law suggested itself to the
writer of this essay, and he has since taken every opportunity of testing it by all the newly-ascertained
facts with which he has become acquainted, or has been able to observe himself. These have
all served to convince him of the correctness of his hypothesis. Fully to enter into such a
subject would occupy much space, and it is only in consequence of some views having been lately
promulgated, he believes, in a wrong direction, that he now ventures to present his ideas to
the public, with only such obvious illustrations of the arguments and results as occur to him
in a place far removed from all means of reference and exact information.

A Law deduced from well-known Geographical and Geological Facts. 4th. The phænomena of rudimentary
organs. We will briefly endeavour to show its bearing upon each of these.

The Form of a true system of Classification determined by this Law. It is evidently possible
that two or three distinct species may have had a common antitype, and that each of these may
again have become the antitypes from which other closely allied species were created. The effect
of this would be, that so long as each species has had but one new species formed on its model,
the line of affinities will be simple, and may be represented by placing the several species
in direct succession in a straight line. But if two or more species have been independently
formed on the plan of a common antitype, then the series of affinities will be compound, and
can only be represented by a forked or many branched line. Now, all attempts at a Natural classification
and arrangement of organic beings show, that both these plans have obtained in creation. They
are said to have an analogy to each other when they are so far removed from their common antitype
as to differ in many important points of structure, while they still preserve a family resemblance.
We are also made aware of the difficulty of arriving at a true classification, even in a small
and perfect group;--in the actual state of nature it is almost impossible, the species being
so numerous and the modifications of form and structure so varied, arising probably from the
immense number of species which have served as antitypes for the existing species, and thus
produced a complicated branching of the lines of affinity, as intricate as the twigs of a gnarled
oak or the vascular system of the human body. The latter class have been very generally rejected
by naturalists, as contrary to nature, notwithstanding the ability with which they have been
advocated; but the circular system of affinities seems to have obtained a deeper hold, many
eminent naturalists having to some extent adopted it. The complicated branching of the lines
of affinities in extensive groups must also afford great facilities for giving a show of probability
to any such purely artificial arrangements. Their death-blow was given by the admirable paper
of the lamented Mr. Strickland, published in the "Annals of Natural History," in which he so
clearly showed the true synthetical method of discovering the Natural System.

Geographical Distribution of Organisms. If in any case the antitype had an extensive range,
two or more groups of species might have been formed, each varying from it in a different manner,
and thus producing several representative or analogous groups. The Sylviadæ of Europe and the
Sylvicolidæ of North America, the Heliconidæ of South America and the Euploeas of the East,
the group of Trogons inhabiting Asia, and that peculiar to South America, are examples that
may be accounted for in this manner. They must have been first peopled, like other newly-formed
islands, by the action of winds and currents, and at a period sufficiently remote to have had
the original species die out, and the modified prototypes only remain. In the same way we can
account for the separate islands having each their peculiar species, either on the supposition
that the same original emigration peopled the whole of the islands with the same species from
which differently modified prototypes were created, or that the islands were successively peopled
from each other, but that new species have been created in each on the plan of the pre-existing
ones. St. Helena is a similar case of a very ancient island having obtained an entirely peculiar,
though limited, flora. On the other hand, no example is known of an island which can be proved
geologically to be of very recent origin (late in the Tertiary, for instance), and yet possesses
generic or family groups, or even many species peculiar to itself.

When a range of mountains has attained a great elevation, and has so remained during a long
geological period, the species of the two sides at and near their bases will be often very
different, representative species of some genera occurring, and even whole genera being peculiar
to one side only, as is remarkably seen in the case of the Andes and Rocky Mountains. A similar
phænomenon occurs when an island has been separated from a continent at a very early period.
The shallow sea between the Peninsula of Malacca, Java, Sumatra and Borneo was probably a continent
or large island at an early epoch, and may have become submerged as the volcanic ranges of
Java and Sumatra were elevated. The organic results we see in the very considerable number
of species of animals common to some or all of these countries, while at the same time a number
of closely allied representative species exist peculiar to each, showing that a considerable
period has elapsed since their separation. The facts of geographical distribution and of geology
may thus mutually explain each other in doubtful cases, should the principles here advocated
be clearly established.

In all those cases in which an island has been separated from a continent, or raised by volcanic
or coralline action from the sea, or in which a mountain-chain has been elevated in a recent
geological epoch, the phænomena of peculiar groups or even of single representative species
will not exist. Our own island is an example of this, its separation from the continent being
geologically very recent, and we have consequently scarcely a species which is peculiar to
it; while the Alpine range, one of the most recent mountain elevations, separates faunas and
floras which scarcely differ more than may be due to climate and latitude alone.

The series of facts alluded to in Proposition (3), of closely allied species in rich groups
being found geographically near each other, is most striking and important. Mr. Lovell Reeve
has well exemplified it in his able and interesting paper on the Distribution of the Bulimi.
It is also seen in the Humming-birds and Toucans, little groups of two or three closely allied
species being often found in the same or closely adjoining districts, as we have had the good
fortune of personally verifying. But it is the same throughout Nature; every class and order
of animals will contribute similar facts. Hitherto no attempt has been made to explain these
singular phenomena, or to show how they have arisen. Why are the genera of Palms and of Orchids
in almost every case confined to one hemisphere? Why are the closely allied species of brown-backed
Trogons all found in the East, and the green-backed in the West? Why are the Macaws and the
Cockatoos similarly restricted? Insects furnish a countless number of analogous examples;--the
Goliathi of Africa, the Ornithopteræ of the Indian Islands, the Heliconidæ of South America,
the Danaidæ of the East, and in all, the most closely allied species found in geographical
proximity.

Geological Distribution of the Forms of Life.

The phænomena of geological distribution are exactly analogous to those of geography. Closely
allied species are found associated in the same beds, and the change from species to species
appears to have been as gradual in time as in space. Geology, however, furnishes us with positive
proof of the extinction and production of species, though it does not inform us how either
has taken place. The extinction of species, however, offers but little difficulty, and the
modus operandi has been well illustrated by Sir C. Lyell in his admirable "Principles." Geological
changes, however gradual, must occasionally have modified external conditions to such an extent
as to have rendered the existence of certain species impossible. The extinction would in most
cases be effected by a gradual dying-out, but in some instances there might have been a sudden
destruction of a species of limited range.

High Organization of very ancient Animals consistent with this Law.

Much discussion has of late years taken place on the question, whether the succession of life
upon the globe has been from a lower to a higher degree of organization. The admitted facts
seem to show that there has been a general, but not a detailed progression. Mollusca and Radiata
existed before Vertebrata, and the progression from Fishes to Reptiles and Mammalia, and also
from the lower mammals to the higher, is indisputable. On the other hand, it is said that the
Mollusca and Radiata of the very earliest periods were more highly organized than the great
mass of those now existing, and that the very first fishes that have been discovered are by
no means the lowest organised of the class. Now it is believed the present hypothesis will
harmonize with all these facts, and in a great measure serve to explain them; for though it
may appear to some readers essentially a theory of progression, it is in reality only one of
gradual change. It is, however, by no means difficult to show that a real progression in the
scale of organization is perfectly consistent with all the appearances, and even with apparent
retrogression, should such occur.

Returning to the analogy of a branching tree, as the best mode of representing the natural
arrangement of species and their successive creation, let us suppose that at an early geological
epoch any group (say a class of the Mollusca) has attained to a great richness of species and
a high organization. Now let this great branch of allied species, by geological mutations,
be completely or partially destroyed. Subsequently a new branch springs from the same trunk,
that is to say, new species are successively created, having for their antitypes the same lower
organized species which had served as the antitypes for the former group, but which have survived
the modified conditions which destroyed it. This new group being subject to these altered conditions,
has modifications of structure and organization given to it, and becomes the representative
group of the former one in another geological formation. It may, however, happen, that though
later in time, the new series of species may never attain to so high a degree of organization
as those preceding it, but in its turn become extinct, and give place to yet another modification
from the same root, which may be of higher or lower organization, more or less numerous in
species, and more or less varied in form and structure than either of those which preceded
it. Again, each of these groups may not have become totally extinct, but may have left a few
species, the modified prototypes of which have existed in each succeeding period, a faint memorial
of their former grandeur and luxuriance. The foregoing remarks appear to apply to the case
of the Mollusca, which, at a very early period, had reached a high organization and a great
development of forms and species in the testaceous Cephalopoda.

Objections to Forbes' Theory of Polarity.

