Days, weeks, months, went by, and no one heard from Klaus; at last his mother had a letter
from him. He wrote cheerfully; said he liked America, but that he could not make up his mind
to go far away to the prairies, where he could never see the blue ocean or the white gulls,
or hear the splash of oars.

Meanwhile Lars was very unhappy. Everything seemed to go wrong with him--the crops failed,
his share in the fisheries was small, and his father was hard and close with him. He missed
his friend sadly; he cared no longer to do the daring things they had attempted together. He
had never been to see Ilda since the day she had told him that she did not love his friend
Klaus. As the spring advanced into summer, he met her one day in the pine woods near her cottage,
and she looked so pleased to see him that he was tempted to tell her of all his troubles, especially
of how disappointed and hurt he was by the departure of Klaus; and this reminded him of what
she had told him about caring for some one else; but when he asked her who it was, to, his
great happiness she told him that he, Lars, was the one, and that was the reason why Klaus
had gone away. Then, for the first time, he saw how generously his friend had acted; he had
gone away that he might not interfere with his friend, for Klaus had found out that Ilda loved
Lars. So in due time they were married in the simple fashion of the Norwegian people. But the
crops were not more nourishing; and work as hard as he would, Lars could not do as well for
himself as he would have liked. So he took all his money and bought a bigger jagt, and carried
klip (or split) fish to the south, from whence they would be sent to Spain.

This separated him from Ilda and the little yellow-haired Hanne, his child; and his voyages
were not very prosperous, so at last they determined to do as did the Norsemen and Vikings
of old, set sail for the land of the setting sun.

It was hard to give up Norway, but Ilda was willing to do that which was for the best, and
quietly filled the big boxes and chests with the linen she had spun herself, and made stout
flannel clothes for little Hanne, and said "good-by" to every one she knew, and then they got
off as fast as the slow jagt would carry them: off, out of the beautiful fjord with its green
banks and snowy-topped mountains, away from the rocks and fjelds so dear to them, on to the
broad, the mighty ocean.

They sailed and sailed for many a day, and Ilda knit while the little lassie, Hanne, played
at her feet, and Lars smoked his pipe, and talked of the glorious land of liberty and fertile
fields which they were approaching.

They had pleasant weather for a long while, and it did seem as if the kind words, the lycksame
resa, or lucky journey, which their friends had wished them, was really to be experienced.
Little Hannchen was a merry, bright little companion, and made all the rough sailors love her.
Her evening meal was milk and fladbröd, and she always threw some over the ship's side for
the "poor hungry fishes," while she prattled in Norsk to the sailors, who were mostly Swedes
and Finns. But whether they understood her or not, they liked to watch her blue eyes sparkle,
and her yellow hair fly out like freshly spun flax, as she merrily danced about the slow old
jagt; and they called her "Heldig Hanne," or "happy Hanne." But they were now approaching land,
and fogs set in which were more to be dreaded than high winds, and the helmsman looked anxious,
and Lars could not sleep. The atmosphere seemed to get thicker and thicker, and where they
could for a while see the faint yellow twinkle of the stars all was now an opaque film.

One night as Ilda was singing a little song to Hanne a great crash came, a terrible thump,
and then a queer grating sound. All had been still on deck, but now came hoarse shouts and
cries, and Lars rushed down to the cabin, saying, "We are on the rocks! we are lost, Ilda!"

Ilda clasped little Hanne still closer as she said, tremulously, "Is it true, Lars? is there
no way of escape? are we so near land?"

"Yes; come up on deck. The ship is already settling. We must try to get you and the child off
in one of the boats."

"Not without you, Lars; we will not move an inch without you."

"See," he replied, as he helped her up the steps, "the gulls are flying over our heads: land
must be near."

It was horribly true that the vessel was thumping and bumping on the rocks; the surf was roaring,
and it seemed impossible for a boat to be launched. The sailors were making ready to cast themselves
into the sea. Some were cursing, others praying, and others tying and lashing themselves to
spars which they had taken from their fastenings. Two of them came up to Lars.

"Sir, for the sake of the child there, we will swim, if we can, to the shore, and get help."

"It would be useless," said Lars.

"Oh no," said Ilda; "let them try. They are brave. Perhaps they will succeed."

They nodded, and went off, Lars looking after them hopelessly as he muttered: "I might have
known this; it is just my luck. Oh, Ilda! Ilda! why did I bring you with me?--and poor little
Hanne!"

The child clung to her mother, her blue eyes dilated with fear, and her little hands about
her mother's neck.

"Hush, Lars," said Ilda; "where thou art, there I would be, and so would Hannchen. God is yet
able to save us."

The moments seemed like days; presently the vessel gave a great lurch to one side, and Lars
had just time to tie Ilda to him as the waves broke over the jagt.

"Farväl!" was all he said to her, as they were plunged into the water; but as he saw the waves
closing about them, he heard a cry from the sailors--a cry of joy, of welcome--and he felt
a strong hand reached out to him, and a coil of rope flung about them. He had his arm under
the fainting Ilda, but surely he had seen the face of the brave fellow who took Hanne in his
arms from Ilda's clasp. He could not think; he only knew that they were saved at last--that
a dozen strong men, some on land, some in the water, were dragging them to shore.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ah! what rest and peace and thankfulness after a night like that! and with what strange and
solemn emotions did Lars and Ilda look about them when they discovered that the house they
were in belonged to the one who had carried their little Hanne in his arms from the ocean,
and was none other than their old friend Klaus. Klaus the fisherman, Klaus the sailor, as he
was known on that shore. The same Klaus, merry and brave, with a house of his own and a wife
of his own, ready to share all he possessed with Lars, if Lars would only stay and settle near
him. The jagt had gone down with all Lars's worldly goods; but Ilda was safe and Hanne was
safe, and with so good a friend as Klaus, surely Lars could begin the world anew. And so he
staid; and the tide turned, and fair weather prevailed.

CADDY'S CLOCK PARTY.

The great hall clock was not asked to the party, but it was there, all the same. It was Milly
Holland's birthday party. Milly was just fourteen years old, and most of the boys and girls
near her own age whom she knew had been invited, and among them little Caddy Podkins, too little
and young to care for at all, Milly thought; but kind Mrs. Holland had asked Caddy, because
she was the only child of her nearest neighbor, and used to sit for hours in the bay-window
across the way as if she did not have anything to amuse her.

The Hollands lived in a large, handsome house, and to-day it was pleasanter than usual, there
were so many flowers about the rooms, and pretty moss baskets, and vines twisted around the
chandeliers.

At half past five, the hour set for the party to begin, Milly's guests began to come; and Milly
herself, in a soft white merino dress, came down the wide stairs to the polished oaken landing,
and received them as they came up the lower steps from the big hall doors. There were nearly
fifty boys and girls--more girls than boys--and as the party would be over at ten o'clock,
they wisely lost no time, and came almost all at once. It made a pretty sight as they shook
back their wrappings from their gay dresses, and crowded around Milly. It was as if a good-natured
giant had spilled a huge basket of red and white rose-buds over the oaken landing and stairs,
up which the children followed Milly to the dressing-room and the parlors, where the fires
glowed in the cheerful grates, and the lamps in beautiful tinted globes made a brightness that
seemed to the children more wonderful than day.

Now it is not so much about Milly's party as about one little girl who was in it that I am
going to tell you; because parties are very commonplace things, and little girls, at least
some little girls, are not.

When the party had been going on for a long time, and the children were being taken in to supper--and
a very nice supper, too, with plenty of milk, white bread, and sparkling jellies--one of the
largest girls stopped with Milly Holland for a moment where the staircase turned and looked
down upon the oaken landing. There stood the tall, old-fashioned clock, looking very old and
rather proud in its rich dark case, and against it leaned a very little girl, not more than
eight years old, with a good deal of brown hair, and big gray eyes. Her folded hands and her
little cheek were pressed against the edge of the clock case. The hall lamp from the bracket
overhead shone on her hair and her crumpled dress, and left her face in the shadow.

"Who's that?" asked the other girl of Milly.

"What! don't you know Caddy Podkins?" said Milly. "The idea of mother asking such a baby as
that to my party!"

Then the two girls went to supper. The supper-room was farther from the landing than the parlors,
and when the door had closed, the hall became quite still. All at once Caddy thought the clock
ticked louder than she had ever heard a clock tick in all her life before. And she was quite
right, for the clock was trying to speak to Caddy, and except just to state, without a single
needless-word, the hour, this clock had never tried to speak before. But the clock liked Caddy
very much. It had seen that Caddy was very bashful, and that the other children took hardly
any notice of her, or any care for her pleasure, and it liked the feeling of Caddy's little
cheek and warm hands upon its side.

Now Caddy had a little invisible key. It was finer than refined gold, and stronger than adamant
(which is the very hardest kind of stone there is, you know), and there was not a lock--no,
not even the lock of the tongue of a clock--which could help opening to Caddy's little key.
Caddy herself knew nothing about this key, not even its long name--Im-ag-i-na-tion. But the
key did not need to have Caddy know; it staid in a little pearl of a room full of the brightest
thoughts of Caddy's mind, and whenever these thoughts began to stir about and say, "I wonder,"
away the little key would fly, and open some new delightful secret to Caddy. There are thousands
and thousands of children who have keys of this sort; but, oh! there's such a difference in
the keys and in the secrets that they find! Caddy's key was one of the very best, and even
while she was noticing that the clock ticked so loud, her little key had turned itself in the
very centre of the wheels, and the clock whispered, close in her ear, "Caddy, little Caddy,
shall I--tick-a-tock--talk to you?"

Caddy was not at all surprised or bashful with the clock, but asked, quickly, "Were you ever
at a party?"

"Hundreds of them," said the clock. "Tiresome things, parties are."

"Guess you don't get any supper, perhaps," said Caddy, with a queer little smile.

"Guess you are hungry, perhaps," laughed the clock, with a dozen little sharp ticks all together.
"Now, you dear little Caddy, I'm a clock of a very good family. As far back as I can remember--and
that's a very long time--there has never been a clock in my family which did not keep perfect
time, and tell the truth exactly to a second every time it spoke, and I know how a little girl
who is invited to a party ought to be treated, so I invite you now, Caddy Podkins, to my party."

"What! a really, truly clock party?" exclaimed Caddy, and in the same moment the big clock
had swung its long pendulum wire around her waist, and lifted Caddy as if she were a feather,
whirled her so fast that Caddy saw nothing at all, and then set her down very gently in a room
whose floor was shaped like the flat side of a wheel, and the edges of the floor were notched
just like the edges of the wheels in a clock. The walls of the room were like brass that has
been rubbed very bright, and were covered with net-work of fine curling wire. In the middle
of the room was a long table, set with wheel-shaped plates, which were heaped with large sweet
raisins and nut meats, fresh flaky biscuits, and there were the most delicious fruits, so ripe
you could see through to the seeds and stones in their cores. Over the table hung a chandelier,
shaped like a pendulum, which gave a soft yellow light. The big clock stood at the head of
the table, tapping her forehead with her long minute-finger. She smiled at Caddy's wonder,
and ticked out, merrily,

  "Well, Caddy, Caddy, Caddy,
  Tick-a-tock-tick-tock!
  How's this for a clock?
  Ha! ha! It's not so bad--eh?"

Caddy leaned against her tall friend, and asked, very comfortably, "Are your little clocks coming?"

At this question the old clock ticked slowly off on her minute-finger,

  "Inty-minty-cuty-corn,
  Ap-ple seeds and ap-ple thorn,
  Wire bri-er, lim-ber lock,
  Three wheels in a clock!"

At that last word suddenly the curling wires all over the walls gave out a curious tinkling,
and letting themselves swiftly down in long slender spirals, like the dandelion curls you make
in the spring, each set a tiny little clock on the floor. Then all the wires snapped back to
their places on the wall. There were as many as fifty of these little clocks, beautifully made,
and no two of them alike, though they all had little brass hands reaching out of the sides
of their cases, and they all had little brass feet, on which they hopped about nimbly, and
they all ticked together in the funniest way.

  "Tick-a-tock-tarty,
  It's Caddy's party,"

said the old clock, and the little clocks instantly made a circle around Caddy, and each bent
one knee and slid back one little brass foot in the most polite courtesy to Caddy. One of the
oldest of the little clocks then hopped off to a tiny wire harp that stood in a corner, and
began to play a sweet lively waltz with her queer brass fingers. The rest of the clocks came
one after another and led Caddy out and waltzed with her. Caddy had never danced so much in
all her life, and had never liked it half so well.

  "Tick-a-tock, stop feet,
  Little Caddy must eat,"

said the old clock. And, oh! what a supper that was to hungry, happy little Caddy! and how
happy the little clocks were to have such a good little girl as Caddy with them! They gave
her the best of everything upon the table, and waited to see that she had all she wished before
they even thought of eating for themselves. They told her all sorts of droll stories, and one
little clock astonished Caddy very much by opening her little silver tunic and showing Caddy--who
had not quite believed it before--that the little wheels actually did eat up the juicy fruits.
"I wonder if I am full of little wheels," said Caddy. Then Caddy's little key sighed, for it
was just the least bit tired, and Caddy's "I wonder" meant work for the key. But the old clock
suddenly exclaimed,

  "Tick-a-tock, 'most ten,
  Little Caddy, come again."

"Caddy! Caddy Podkins!" said Mrs. Holland, in great surprise. The children were putting on
their things in the dressing-room up stairs, and Mrs. Holland had just noticed that Caddy was
not with them, and coming hastily down stairs, saw Caddy, just as we did, leaning against the
tall old clock. "My poor little dear, why, how cold you are! Have you been asleep? Milly ought
to have taken care of you. I'm afraid you have not had a good time."

"I've had a clock party," said Caddy, rubbing her eyes, while Mrs. Holland tied on her hood,
"and I'm to come again."

FAIR PLAY.

  Dear little May sat grieving alone,
    With a pout on her lip and a tear in her eye,
  Till kind old grandmamma chanced to pass,
    And soon discovered the reason why.
  "The children are planning a fair," sobbed she,
  "And 'cause I'm so little, they won't--have--me!"

  So grandmamma thought of a beautiful plan,
    And whispered a secret in little May's ear--
  Something which brought out the dimples and smiles,
    And scattered with sunshine the pitiful tear.
  Then off to grandmamma's room they went,
  On something important very intent.

  Well, the fair came off on a certain day,
    And what do you think was the first thing sold?
  A beautiful pair of worsted reins,
    All knit in scarlet and green and gold.
  The "big girls" wondered how came they there--
  "The prettiest thing in the children's fair!"

  Then out stepped May, with her cheeks so red:
    "You said there was nothing that I could do,
  'Cause I was little; but I made those,
    And now, I guess, I'm as big as you!"
  So little May at the fair that day
  Was the reigning queen, it is fair to say.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The White Pebble Pit.=--It has frequently happened that miners have discovered curious traces
of former workings, hundreds of years ago, and tools have been found which belonged to the
ancient miners, and many other relics.

A singular discovery was made, a few years since, by some workmen engaged in the Spanish silver
mine known as the White Pebble Pit. Whilst digging their subterranean passages they suddenly
found a series of apartments, in which were a quantity of mining tools, left there from a very
remote period, but still in such good preservation that there were hatchets, and sieves for
sifting the ore, a smelting furnace, and two anvils, which proved that the earliest miners
had great experience in their operations.

In one of the caverns there was a round building, with niches, in which were three statues,
one sitting down, and half the size of life; the other two were in a standing position, and
about three feet in height. This building is supposed to have been the temple of the god who
was believed, in pagan times, to preside over mines. Several objects of art, and some remarkable
instruments, were also found, which have led scientific persons to think that the workings
might have been made by the Phoenicians, the people who, as is well known, were, in the time
of Solomon, famous for their manufacturing and commercial genius.

In 1854 a discovery was also made by some miners excavating on the other side of the mountain
on which the White Pebble Pit is situated; this was a fine figure of the heathen god Hercules,
which was found in an old working.

In digging for copper on the shores of Lake Superior, in this country, the miners have made
many similar discoveries, showing that the mines were worked ages ago.

GRASS-FISH (NEMICHLHYS).

The curious fishes with the tremendous name, the last part of which means snipe-billed, are
very long and defenseless, and are invariably found among the leaves of a long sea-grass, which
very nearly resembles them in form and color. Their head is quite long, and they always seem
to stand on it, and when a hungry fish comes along, he would have to look long and well to
tell which was the grass and which the fish. These grass-fish well earn their right to be called
"mimics." These strange features in such low animals teach an interesting lesson: they show
more strongly the wise governing of the great Maker, and correct the mistake, often thoughtlessly
made, that the lower animals have no feelings, thoughts, or pleasures. If they do not show
them as we do, it is none the less true that they possess them, but in different degrees.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Little Jack Horner.=--The origin of the nursery rhyme has been said to be as follows: When
monasteries and their property were seized, orders were given that the title-deeds of the abbey
estates of Mells, which were very valuable, should be given up to the commissioners. The mode
chosen of sending them was in the form of a pasty to be sent as a present from the abbot to
one of the commissioners in London. Jack Horner, a poor lad, was chosen as the messenger. Tired,
he rested in as comfortable a corner as he could on his way. Hungry, he determined to taste
the pasty he was carrying. Inserting his thumb into the pie, he found nothing but parchment
deeds. One of these he pulled out and pocketed, as likely to be valuable. The Abbot Whiting
of Mells was executed for having withheld the missing parchment. In the Horner family was discovered
years afterward the plum that Jack had picked out, one of the chief title-deeds of Mells abbey
and lands.

Our heartiest thanks are due to our youthful readers who have sent us pretty and gracefully
written New-Year's wishes from all parts of the United States. We would like to print every
one of these welcome letters, but they are so numerous it would be impossible. Our young friends,
however, may be sure that whether we print them or simply acknowledge them, they are alike
pleasing and gratifying to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

Robie Lozier (eleven years) writes that he punches a hole in his Young People, and ties the
numbers together with a ribbon, adding the new numbers as fast as they come. This is an excellent
suggestion, as it preserves the numbers from getting scattered and lost.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SOUTH EVANSTON, ILLINOIS.

     I have a little canary-bird. He is quite young, but is a beautiful
     singer, and almost always when he sings he says, "Pretty, pretty,"
     so plain you could not mistake it. He is also very tame, and when I
     let him out of his cage he comes and stands on my shoulder, and
     hops around me. If I put my finger in his cage, he gets very cross,
     and waves his wings and pecks at me, and makes a queer noise as if
     he were scolding.

  EFFIE T. (twelve years).

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am a little girl nine years old, and I live in Southbridge,
     Massachusetts. I see that one little girl has written about her pet
     pigeon. I have a pet squirrel. He is so tame he will run all over
     me. Last summer we let him run out in the front yard, and papa put
     him in a tree, but he would not climb it. Papa has subscribed for
     Young People for me. I like it very much, and look forward with
     pleasure to the time for it to come. Thank you for making it
     larger; it is just nice.

  JOSIE S. E.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FORT WAYNE, INDIANA.

     I received Young People for Christmas, and like the stories very
     much. I like "Photogen and Nycteris" so much that I can hardly wait
     till the next number comes. The engravings are very nice. I think
     that there was never a paper so interesting. I thank you for the
     "Wiggles" and other games. Happy New-Year.

  WALTER C.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ROCHESTER, PENNSYLVANIA.

     I am ten years old. I like Young People the best of any paper I
     ever saw. It is the first paper my papa has ever taken for me. He
     takes the Weekly. I think the Young People is just the right
     size for binding, and I am going to have it bound at the end of the
     year.

  BERTIE SHALLENBERGER.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am very much interested in your paper. I am going to save up my
     money to take it. I am nine years old. I have a pony named Coby. I
     enjoy him very much. He is a Texas pony. I live in Richmond,
     Kentucky, where the grass is so blue.

  BIJUR WHITE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letters are acknowledged from Maude J. W., Dayton, Washington Territory; Dannie Bullard, Schuylerville,
New York; Lurean C., Mazomanie, Wisconsin; Fred E. B., Cambridge, Massachusetts; Harry R.,
Winona, Minnesota; H. W. Singer, Cincinnati, Ohio; Minnie W. Jacobs, Indiana, Pennsylvania;
Percy W. Shedd, Attlebury, New York; Lizzie C., Utica, New York; Willie Hamilton, Alleghany
City, Pennsylvania; Zella Thompson, Boston, Massachusetts; O. R. Heinze, Allentown, Pennsylvania;
Frederick L. B., Brooklyn, Long Island; and Lyman C., M. C. S., and William F. B., New York city.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEL," Zanesville, Ohio.--Flat cribbage-boards can be bought at a very low price, and folding
ones which hold the cards are not expensive. You might make one from a piece of thick pasteboard,
but as there must be sixty-one peg-holes for each player, it would not be easy to cut them
neatly.--It is more customary to leave a card for each person called upon, especially where
the visit is formal.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE H. H.--Harper's new School Geography gives Wheeling as the capital of West Virginia.

       *       *       *       *       *

FREDIE G.--Even if you are only seven years, you are old enough to read a boys' book about
wild animals. Lions will catch and eat nearly all beasts that come in their way. They will
even overpower a giraffe or a buffalo. The elephant and rhinoceros are almost the only quadrupeds
a lion dare not meddle with.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR CHRISTMAS PUZZLE.

  LOVELAND, OHIO.

     I think I have correctly worked the Christmas Puzzle in Young
     People. I had to study some time over "ray," never having heard of
     such a fish. It was only by finding what letters I needed in the
     columns 11, 9, 9 that I saw they were r a y. On looking in the
     dictionary I found there was a fish called by that name. "Yard"
     also puzzled me a great deal. The other words were easily found.

  M. T. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WILMINGTON, DELAWARE.

     My brother Bertie and I have had a nice time finding the answer to
     your Christmas Puzzle in No. 8 of Young People. We thank you very
     much for your kind wish, and wish you the same in return. Can your
     young readers tell what it is we wish you?

  LILLIE J.

       *       *       *       *       *

All these boys and girls have also told our Christmas Puzzle wish correctly: Maynard A. M.,
M. A. S., and F. V. B., Alexina K. D., F. E. Coombs, Willie J. M., Virgil C. M., Amy L. H.,
Etta Douglass, Annie G. Long, Willie H. S., Lilian Forbes, Jamie D. H., Huntington W., A. A.
B., Mamie M., Nellie P., Essie B., Fred D. H., Zadie H. D., Edna Heinen, Seabury G. P., E.
A. De Lima, Claudie M. Tice, Louie A., J. M. Wolfe, Carroll O. B., George F. D., S. K. S.,
Effie K. T., G. M. B., Ada and Clara, Florence D., Alice P., E. C. Repper, and George Henry.

       *       *       *       *       *

The answer to Christmas Puzzle in Young People No. 8 is, "I wish you a merry Christmas and
a happy New-Year."

PHOTO VISITING CARDS. SAMPLE FREE.

Latest style now all the Rage. One dozen, Finest Gilt Edged, Round Cornered, with Name and
Photograph, only 60 cents; 2 doz. $1. Sample and MAMMOTH 148-Page Book =FREE=. H. B. MATHEWS'
SONS, 220 Lake Street, Chicago.

  N. Y. EVENING POST.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCIENCE FOR THE YOUNG.

By JACOB ABBOTT.

ILLUSTRATED.

4 volumes, 12mo, Cloth, $1.50 each.

    I. HEAT.
   II. LIGHT.
  III. WATER AND LAND.
   IV. FORCE.

If a mass-meeting of parents and children were to be held for the purpose of erecting a monument
to the author who has done most to entertain and instruct the young folks, there would certainly
be a unanimous vote in favor of Mr. Jacob Abbott. Two or three generations of American youth
owe some of their most pleasant hours of recreation to his story-books; and his latest productions
are as fresh and youthful as those which the papas and mammas of to-day once looked forward
to as the most precious gifts from the Christmas bag of old Santa Claus. The series published
under the general title of "Science for the Young" might be called "Learning made Pleasant."
An interesting story runs through each, and beguiles the reader into the acquisition of a vast
amount of useful knowledge under the genial pretence of furnishing amusement. No intelligent
child can read these volumes without obtaining a better knowledge of physical science than
many students have when they leave college.--N. Y. Evening Post.

Jacob Abbott is almost the only writer in the English language who knows how to combine real
amusement with real instruction in such a manner that the eager young readers are quite as
much interested in the useful knowledge he imparts as in the story which he makes so pleasant
a medium of instruction.--Buffalo Commercial Advertiser.

Mr. Abbott has avoided the error of slurring over the difficulties of the subject through the
desire of making it intelligible and attractive to unlearned readers.

Old Books for Young Readers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arabian Nights' Entertainments. 600 Illustrations by Harvey. 2
     vols., 12mo, Cloth, $3.50.

Robinson Crusoe.

     The Life and Surprising Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of York,
     Mariner. By DANIEL DEFOE. With a Biographical Account of Defoe.
     Illustrated by Adams. Complete Edition. 12mo, Cloth, $1.50.

The Swiss Family Robinson.

     The Swiss Family Robinson; or, Adventures of a Father and Mother
     and Four Sons on a Desert Island. Illustrated. 2 vols., 18mo,
     Cloth, $1.50.

Sandford and Merton.

ART MANUFACTURES.

A great many things can be made out of other things. A very fair turkey can be made out of
a horse-chestnut, or even a common chestnut.

Look at Fig. 1 in the above picture: there you have the turkey complete. I will tell you how
I made him. I first took a nice round chestnut, and stuck into it a bent pin to represent the
neck; then I stuck in two other pins to represent the legs; then I took a piece of putty (dough,
or bread worked up to the consistence of dough, will do), and made a stand into which I stuck
the legs. He then looked as he is represented in Fig. 2. I then took a small piece of putty,
and modelled on to the bent pin the head and neck of the turkey. After this I drew with pen
and ink on thick paper, and cut with a pair of scissors, a thing like Fig. 3, and two things
like Fig. 4; these were the tail and wings. I fastened them in their proper places with thick
gum (short pins will do). Then with some red paint I painted the head and feet of the bird,
and I had a very excellent turkey, but I felt thankful that I need not eat it for my dinner.

Figs. 5 and 6 show how a walnut shell may be changed into a turtle shell. Fig. 5 is the walnut
shell, and Fig. 6 is the turtle; and I would not give a fig for the boy who, with a pen and
ink and a little putty (dough will do), is not smart enough to make it.

  Johnny and Mary drive out in the Park,
  And doubtless are having no end of a lark;
  She holds Baby Rose with a motherly air,
  And he handles his spirited horse with great care.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Spiders that Kill Birds.=--Everybody knows that spiders catch flies and other insects; but
that some of them kill little birds may not be so generally known. A traveller in Brazil tells
us that he caught one of them in the very act, while going through a forest in the Amazons.
The spider was a hairy fellow, with a body two inches long, and eight legs measuring seven
inches each, from end to end. One of them was quite dead, and the other nearly so. I drove
away the monster, and took the birds, but the second one soon died.

GETTING A HITCH.

Cut, cut behind! The faster old Dobbin goes, the lighter grows his load.

ASSURANCE.

"Strike out, Nuncky; Sis and I will hold you up."