 Gentlemen and Ladies, witnesses! I have done with you; you may all leave the
court!"

They were all glad to take him at the first word, and in a few minutes not one of them was
to be seen. "I have heard," he continued, "of the pride of a noble house, and of its poverty,
being nearly allied; but here we have all the poverty and none of the pride!" Some one unluckily
said that the things were not all in that torn state. "What," said he, with the utmost contempt,
looking to the party, "is there any one that wishes to exhibit his devoted baseness? Let him
not whisper here behind my back, but come forward and get into the box." He paused, and had
no further interruption. "To you, Gentlemen of the Jury, I appeal. I ask you if you have seen
enough of the rags of this noble family?" and he pulled out the worst piece of the linen, and
held it at arm's length during the greater part of a taunting speech of the same kind: then,
throwing it contemptuously from him--"Away, away, I say, with these rags of the noble family
of N----!" (and some one gathered up all together, and took them out of court)--"and God grant
that they may never rise up in judgment against them! Poor, weak, foolish woman! she took them
as her perquisite. Perquisite indeed! her folly was her fault; for you have seen that they
were not worth the taking.

"Gentlemen of the Jury, I cannot believe that you will lend yourselves to such a grovelling
prosecution--persecution, as this. I pause not to investigate where the evil spirit arose,
in principles or agents, against this injured and calumniated female. If the great ones of
our earth will disgrace themselves--if they will listen to the suggestions of envy, hatred,
and malice, and all uncharitableness, I trust that you, more humble members of the community,
will not be partakers of these evil passions. Where the prosecutor has sustained no personal
fear and no personal loss, it is impossible that any offence can have been committed. You are
not twelve despots sitting upon a case of high treason against the game-laws, and are to have
your consciences racked, to bring in a verdict of trespass, where no damage can be proved;
you are not required to strain right against justice and honesty. What is the offence? How
is our Lord the King or his subjects aggrieved? Those rags!--I know not what the splendid household
of the Duke may require for matches and tinder; for this is all the value that can be attached
to them. Shall we call for them back again, lest the Duke and the Duchess should lose their
recovered treasure? I am not disposed to dispute their right; for even if they were the perquisite
of the housekeeper, I am convinced that she would not get a farthing emolument for those tattered
remnants of nobility. Of one thing I am well assured, that there is not a sufficiency of sound
linen in the whole to make lint enough to cover the wound that the reputation of the noble
Duke and Duchess has sustained in this disgraceful prosecution. Gentlemen, I will trouble you
no further--I confidently expect your verdict." And the woman was acquitted: and from that
day the powers of Thurlow, in voice, sarcasm, gesture, and all the superior intonations of
browbeating, which raised him to the most dangerous pinnacle of legal greatness, became known,
and rapidly advanced him to fame,[14] and the grandchildren of his father to be enrolled among
the established peers of our realm.

    [14] "The foregoing anecdote was told to the writer by the late
    James Burton, Esq., of Lockeridge House, a seat of the Marquess of
    Aylesbury's, near Marlborough. Mr. Burton married a daughter of
    the celebrated actress, Mrs. Cibber, by General Sloper, a man of
    the highest fashion of his day, from whom, I believe, Mr.
    Burton received the account; the particulars of which, as I have
    narrated, no doubt, many persons of Mr. Burton's acquaintance
    still remember."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

ON THE POTATO.

BY T.A. KNIGHT, ESQ., F.R.S., PRES. HORT. SOC.

Mr. Knight is convinced by the evidence of experiments, "that the potato plant, under proper
management, is capable of causing to be brought to market a much greater weight of vegetable
food, from any given extent of ground, than any other plant which we possess." There is no
crop, he says, "so certain as that of potatoes; and it has the advantage of being generally
most abundant, when the crops of wheat are defective; that is, in wet seasons." The following
observations are extremely interesting:--

"I think I shall be able to adduce some strong facts in support of my opinion, that by a greatly
extended culture of the potato for the purpose of supplying the markets with vegetable food,
a more abundant and more wholesome supply of food for the use of the labouring classes of society
may be obtained, than wheat can ever afford, and, I believe, of a more palatable kind to the
greater number of persons. I can just recollect the time when the potato was unknown to the
peasantry of Herefordshire, whose gardens were then almost exclusively occupied by different
varieties of the cabbage. Their food at that period consisted of bread and cheese with the
produce of their gardens; and tea was unknown to them. About sixty-six years ago, before the
potato was introduced into their gardens, agues had been so exceedingly prevalent, that the
periods in which they, or their families, had been afflicted with that disorder, were the eras
to which I usually heard them refer in speaking of past events; and I recollect being cautioned
by them frequently not to stand exposed to the sun in May, lest I should get an ague. The potato
was then cultivated in small quantities in the gardens of gentlemen, but it was not thought
to afford wholesome nutriment, and was supposed by many to possess deleterious qualities. The
prejudice of all parties, however, disappeared so rapidly, that within ten years the potato
had almost wholly driven the cabbage from the gardens of the cottagers. Within the same period,
ague, the previously prevalent disease of the country, disappeared; and no other species of
disease became prevalent. I adduce this fact, as evidence only, that the introduction of the
potato was not injurious to the health of the peasantry at that period; but whether its production
was, or was not, instrumental in causing the disappearance of ague, I will not venture to give
an opinion. I am, however, confident, that neither draining the soil (for that was not done,)
nor any change in the general habits of the peasantry, had taken place, to which their improved
health could be attributed. Bread is well known to constitute the chief food of the French
peasantry. They are a very temperate race of men; and they possess the advantages of a very
fine and dry climate. Yet the duration of life amongst them is very short, scarcely exceeding
two thirds of the average duration of life in England; and in some districts much less. Dr.
Hawkins, in his Medical Statistics, states, upon the authority of M. Villerme that, in the
department of Indre, 'one fourth of the children born die within the first year, and half between
fifteen and twenty; and that three fourths are dead within the space of fifty years. Having
inquired of a very eminent French physiologist, M. Dutrochet, who is resident in the department
of Indre, the cause of this extraordinary mortality, he stated it to he their food, which consisted
chiefly of bread; and of which he calculated every adult peasant to eat two pounds a day. And
he added, without having received any leading question from me, of in any degree knowing my
opinion upon the subject, that if the peasantry of his country would substitute (which they
could do) a small quantity of animal food, with potatoes, instead of so much bread, they would
live much longer, and with much better health. I am inclined to pay much deference to M. Dutrochet's
opinion; for he combines the advantages of a regular medical education with great acuteness
of mind, and I believe him to be as well acquainted with the general laws of organic life as
any person living: and I think his opinion deserves some support, from the well known fact,
that the duration of human life has been much greater in England during the last sixty years,
than in the preceding period of the same duration. Bread made of wheat, when taken in large
quantities, has probably, more than any other article of food in use in this country, the effect
of overloading the alimentary canal: and the general practice of the French physician points
out the prevalence of diseases thence arising amongst their patients. I do not, however, think,
or mean to say, that potatoes alone are proper food for any human being: but I feel confident,
that four ounces of meat, with as large quantity of good potatoes as would wholly take away
the sensation of hunger, would afford, during twenty-four hours, more efficient nutriment than
could be derived from bread in any quantity, and might be obtained at much less expense."--Trans.
Hort. Soc. quoted in Gardeners' Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLOCK-MAKING IN THE NINTH CENTURY.

The Caliph Haroun al Raschid is stated to have maintained an unbroken friendship with his contemporary
Charlemagne, throughout their mutual reign. A variety of magnificent presents attested the
esteem of the caliph for his Christian friend. Among them were several objects, which tend
to show the advance which art had made, at this time in the East. The first of these was a
clock of gilded bronze, round which the course of the twelve hours was displayed; while, at
the end of each hour, the number of brazen balls which were requisite to mark the division
of time, were thrown out from above, and falling consecutively on a cymbal below, struck the
hour required. In like manner a number of horsemen issued forth from windows placed around
the dial; while a number of other clock-work miracles attested the height which the mechanical
arts had reached at the court of Haroun.

The carriage of such objects, as the above presents sent from Bagdad to France, was, of course,
attended with no small inconvenience; and the neglected state of the science of navigation,
rendered the journeys of the ambassadors long and dangerous. Between three and four years were
generally consumed in a mission from one capital to another; and, indeed, it happened more
than once, that even after arriving within the dominions of the Frankish monarchs, the envoys
had still to seek him over a tract nearly as extensive as that which they had before crossed.

Parliamentary Debates.--Originally these debates were given in the Gentleman's Magazine, under
the fiction of "Debates in the Senate of Liliput," and the speakers were disguised under feigned
names. Guthrie, for a time, composed these speeches from such hints as he could bring away
in his memory. Dr. Johnson first assisted in this department, and then entirely filled it,
and the public was highly gratified with the eloquence displayed in these compositions. P.T.W.

Steam Carriages.--By the formation of rail-roads, a loss has occurred in the revenue from stage
coaches, to the amount of 8,384l.

Electro-Magnetism.--The largest electro-magnet is that constructed by the American philosophers.
It is of a horse-shoe form, and weighs about 60 lbs.; around it are 26 coils of wire, the united
lengths of which are 800 feet. When excited by about five feet of galvanic surface, it is said
to have supported nearly two tons. We here see that the exciting cause of magnetism is the
action of the galvanic battery; and a variety of other interesting experiments in electro-magnetics,
tend to the conclusion that the magnetic and electric fluids are nearly allied.--Imperial Magazine.

Salary of the Chancellor, 700 years since.--The salary of the Chancellor, as fixed by Henry
I., amounted to five shillings per diem, and a livery of provisions.

Dibdin.--On the tombstone of Dibdin, the celebrated song composer, in St. Martin's, by Pancras
New Church, is the first verse of his Tom Bowling:

  "His form was of the manliest beauty,
    His heart was kind and soft,
  Faithful on earth he did his duty,
    But now he's gone aloft."

Studious Printer.--Morel was an eminent French printer, who sacrificed every thing to study.
On being informed that his wife was dying, he refused to quit his pen till he had finished
what he was about, and by that time news was brought him that she was dead; to which he coolly
replied, "I am sorry for it--she was a good woman." He died in 1638, at the age of 78. P.T.W.

A Painter's Retort, or Dangerous Re-touch.--Antonio More, the celebrated painter, was highly
favoured by Philip of Spain, whose familiarity with him placed his life in danger; for More
ventured to return a slap on the shoulder which the king in a playful moment gave him, by rubbing
some carmine on his majesty's hand. This behaviour was accepted by the monarch as a jest, but
it was hinted to More that the holy tribunal might regard it as sacrilege, and he fled, to
save himself, into Flanders, where he was employed by the Duke of Alva. P.T.W.

Steam Power.--Mr. Alexander Gordon states, that in various departments of the revenue, the
saving of expenditure by the substitution of inanimate for animate power, would, in the Post
Office alone, amount to upwards of half a million; whilst, from the cheapness of food which
the substitution would produce, the navy and army estimates would be most essentially reduced.

Charlemagne was buried on the day of his death in the great church which he had constructed
at Aix-la-Chapelle. The Monk of Angouleme declares that he was inhumed in his imperial robes,
and that the pilgrim's wallet which he wore on his journeys to Rome was also consigned with
his body to the tomb.

Indian Hail Storms.--Captain Skinner says, during one in which a heavy shower of hail fell,
the thermometer sunk nine degrees in fewer minutes--from 75 to 66; it rose again as rapidly.
Although it was more than four o'clock in the afternoon when the hail fell, it was still on
the ground the following morning; a proof of the coldness of the night air.

Waterloo Child.--A private of the 27th regiment, who was severely wounded at the battle of
Waterloo, was carried off the field by his wife, then far advanced in pregnancy; she also was
wounded by a shell, and with her husband, remained a considerable time in one of the hospitals
at Antwerp, in a hopeless state. The man lost both his arms, his wife was extremely lame, and
here gave birth to a daughter, to whom it is said the late Duke of York stood sponsor; her
names being Frederica M'Mullen Waterloo. A.H.K.--T.

The Royal Academy.--The receipts for admission to the Exhibition of this year were £300. short
of what they were last year. The sale of pictures at the Gallery of the Society of British
Artists has been greater than in any preceding season.