This morning we were brought face to face with the grimmest reality of war we have so far experienced.
A boy-scout called at the house and produced an official paper asking for the names and addresses
of any aliens who might be residing in the house. We have one such alien, a German maid for
the children, a most unwarlike and inoffensive alien. Her name was entered on the form and
the boy-scout disappeared to call at other houses. Since then, at intervals of about half-an-hour,
other boy-scouts have called and produced similar forms. I have just dismissed a party of three,
telling them that they seemed to be overlapping. They smiled and said, "Thank you," and retired.
I look out of the window and behold two more approaching. They are doing the thing thoroughly.

P.S.--Another notice is out warning us that it is known there are a lot of spies in the Island,
and that we must not loiter near a fort lest we be shot. It is rumoured that soldiers are to
be billeted on us (enthusiastic cheers from the younger members of the family).

    R. C. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Turnip, beef, carrots, and onions, if of suitable variety, would in
    a favourable autumn yield fair-sized bulbs."--Manchester Evening
    News.

New Song. "When father carved the bulb."

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: BRAVO, BELGIUM!

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLUMES.

All books should be in one volume. I always thought so, but now I know. The reason why I know
is because I possess two or three thousand books, and I have recently moved into a new house,
and the books were at first put on the shelves indiscriminately as they came out of the packing
cases. And how better spend a wet bank holiday than in arranging them properly--bringing parted
couples together, adjusting involuntary divorces, reuniting the separated members of families
and tribes?

This is the merciful work on which Parolles and I have been engaged for too long. (I call her
Parolles because she is so fond of words of which neither the meaning nor pronunciation has
quite been mastered.) We meet each other all over the house with pathetic inquiries, "Have
you seen Volume IV. of Dumas' Memoirs?" "No, but have you noticed Volume I. of Fors Clavigera?"
It is like a game of "Families."

The worst of the game is that one cannot concentrate. I may ascend the stairs bent wholly upon
securing Volume III. of PROTHERO AND COLERIDGE'S Byron, and then chancing to observe Volume
II. of INGPEN'S Boswell I leap at it in ecstasy and, forgetting all about the noble misanthrope,
hasten back with this prize and join it to its lonely mate.

My Dictionary of National Biography, for all its fifty-eight volumes, not counting Supplements
or Errata, was simple, on account of its size and unusual appearance. But what word can I find
to express the annoyance and trouble given us by a small Pope in sheepskin? We roamed the house
together--there are shelves in every room--striving to collect this family; but three of them
are still on the loose. There is a Balzac, too, in a number of volumes not mentioned on any
title-page and not numbered individually, so that time alone can tell whether that group is
ever fully assembled. But as we placed them side by side we could almost hear them sigh after
their long separation--though whether with satisfaction or annoyance who shall say? Volumes,
may be, can get as tired of their companions as human beings can.

During such an occupation as this a vast deal of time vanishes also in trying to remember where
it was that I saw that copy of Friendship's Garland, so as to place it with the other Arnolds.
Even more time goes in dipping into books which I had clean forgotten I possessed, such as
The Cricketers' Manual, by "Bat," in which my eyes alighted upon this excellent story:

"The Duchess de Berri, being present at a match between two clubs of Englishmen at Dieppe [in
1824], looked on very attentively for nearly three hours, then, turning to one of her attendants,
said, 'Mais, quand est-ce que le jeu va commencer?'" But the time which I have frittered away
in this frivolity is as nothing compared with that wasted by Parolles, who has a way of subsiding
upon the ground wherever she may happen to be and instantly becoming absorbed in the printed
page. It is not as if she exercised any selective power, as I do. All books are the same to
her in that they contain type on which the eye can fasten to the detriment of her labour. In
every room I have stumbled over her long black legs as she thus abused her trust.

And not only has she read more than I have, but she has become steadily dirtier than I, too;
partly because of a native flair for whatever makes smears and smudges, and partly because,
her hair being long and falling on the page, owing to her crouched attitude when perusing,
it has to be swept back, and each sweep leaves its mark. Considering how they set themselves
up to be superior and instruct, books are curiously grubby things.

And, as I said before, they should be in one volume.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: First Politician. "SAY, BILL, WOT'S THIS BLOOMIN' MORTUARIUM THEY BE TARKIN'
SO MUCH ABOUT?"

Second Politician. "WELL, YE SEE, IT'S LIKE THIS. YOU DON'T PAY NOTHIN' TO NOBODY AND THE GOVERNMENT
PAYS IT FOR YE."

First Politician. "WELL, THAT SOUNDS A BIT OF ALL RIGHT, DOAN'T IT?"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROBLEM OF LIFE.

The noise of the retreating sea came pleasantly to us from a distance. Celia was lying on her--I
never know how to put this nicely--well, she was lying face downwards on a rock and gazing
into a little pool which the tide had forgotten about and left behind. I sat beside her and
annoyed a limpet. Three minutes ago I had taken it suddenly by surprise and with an Herculean
effort moved it an eighteenth of a millimetre westwards. My silence since then was lulling
it into a false security, and in another two minutes I hoped to get a move on it again.

"Do you know," said Celia with a puzzled look on her face, "sometimes I think I'm quite an
ordinary person after all."

"You aren't a little bit," I said lazily; "you're just like nobody else in the world."

"Well, of course, you had to say that."

"No, I hadn't. Lots of husbands would merely have yawned." I felt one coming and stopped it
just in time. Waiting for limpets to go to sleep is drowsy work. "But why are you so morbid
about yourself suddenly?"

"I don't know," she said. "Only every now and then I find myself thinking the most obvious
thoughts."

"We all do," I answered, as I stroked my limpet gently. The noise of our conversation had roused
it, but a gentle stroking motion (I am told by those to whom it has confided) will frequently
cause its muscles to relax. "The great thing is not to speak them. Still, you'd better tell
me now. What is it?"

"Well," she said, her cheeks perhaps a little pinker than usual, "I was just thinking that
life was very wonderful. But it's a silly thing to say."

"It's holiday time," I reminded her. "The necessity of sprinkling our remarks with thoughtful
words like 'economic' and 'sporadic' is over for a bit. Let us be silly." I scratched in the
rock the goal to which I was urging my limpet and took out my watch. "Three thirty-five. I
shall get him there by four."

Celia was gazing at two baby fishes who played in and out a bunch of sea-weed. Above the sea-weed
an anemone sat fatly.

"I suppose they're all just as much alive as we are," she said thoughtfully. "They marry"--I
looked at my limpet with a new interest--"and bring up families and go about their business,
and it all means just as much to them as it does to us."

"My limpet's business affairs mean nothing to me," I said firmly. "I am only wrapped up in
him as a sprinter."

"Aren't you going to try to move him again?"

"He's not quite ready yet. He still has his suspicions."

Celia dropped into silence. Her next question showed that she had left the pool for a moment.

"Are there any people in Mars?" she asked.

"People down here say that there aren't. A man told me the other day that he knew this for
a fact. On the other hand, people in Mars know for a fact that there isn't anybody on the Earth.
Probably they are both wrong."

"I should like to know a lot about things," sighed Celia. "Do you know anything about limpets?"

"Only that they stick like billy-o."

"I suppose more about them is known than that?"

"I suppose so. By people who have made a speciality of them. For one who has preferred to amass
general knowledge rather than to specialize it is considered enough to know that they stick
like billy-o."

"You haven't specialized in anything, have you?"

"Only in wives."

Celia smiled and went on, "How do you make a speciality of limpets?"

"Well, I suppose you--er--study them. You sit down and--and watch them. Probably after dark
they get up and do something. And of course, in any case, you can always dissect one and see
what he's had for breakfast. One way and another you get to know things about them."

"They must have a lot of time for thinking," said Celia, regarding my limpet with her head
on one side. "Tell me, how do they know that there are no men in Mars?"

I sat up with a sigh.

"Celia, you do dodge about so. I have barely brought together and classified my array of facts
about things in this world, when you've dashed up to another one. What is the connection between
Mars and limpets? If there are any limpets in Mars they are fresh-water ones. In the canals."

"Oh, I just wondered," she said. "I mean"--she wrinkled her forehead in the effort to find
words for her thoughts--"I'm wondering what everything means, and why we're all here, and what
limpets are for, and, supposing there are people in Mars, if we're the real people whom the
world was made for, or if they are." She stopped and added, "One evening after dinner, when
we get home, you must tell me all about everything."

Celia has a beautiful idea that I can explain everything to her. I suppose I must have explained
a stymie or a no-ball very cleverly once.

"Well," I said, "I can tell you what limpets are for now. They're like sheep and cows and horses
and pheasants and--and any other animal. They're just for us. At least so the wise people say."

"But we don't eat limpets."

"No, but they can amuse us. This one"--and with a sudden leap I was behind him as he dozed
and I had dashed him forward another eighteenth of a millimetre--"this one has amused me."

"Perhaps," said Celia thoughtfully and I don't think it was quite a nice thing for a young
woman to say, "perhaps we're only meant to amuse the people in Mars."

"Then," I said lazily, "let's hope they are amused."

       *       *       *       *       *

But that was nearly three weeks ago. Ten days later war was declared. Celia has said no more
on the subject since her one afternoon's unrest, but she looks at me curiously sometimes, and
I fear that the problem of life leaves her more puzzled than ever. At the risk of betraying
myself to her as "quite an ordinary person after all" I confess that just at the moment it
leaves me puzzled too.

A. A. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCE.

It was a seaside railway station, the arriving place of one of those health resorts where people
flock in their millions to enjoy a little peace and quiet together. He, no doubt as a punishment
for a misspent youth, was the station-master; she was one of those many kind ladies who come
to meet their relatives and to make their arrival even more peaceful and quiet than such events
usually are.

"Was that the train from London?" she asked him.

He temporized. "Have you asked a porter?" he enquired.

She nodded.

"And have you asked another porter?"

She nodded again.

"And then the foreman porter? And then a ticket collector? And then the inspector? And then
a casual post-man? And then did you come across your original porter and try him again?"

She admitted the list without a blush.

"And now tell me all about your dear lost one--a weak, helpless man, no doubt?"

"It was my husband," she explained.

"A medium-sized man, in a macintosh and a straw hat, of course?"

She acquiesced.

"But none the less," continued the official, "a man of sterling worth? You do not think he
can be in some lost property office en route, waiting to be called for?"

The suggestion was an attractive one, but was rejected. "Then," he said, "let us go and discuss
this intimate tragedy in some less public spot."

He took her to his office and begged her to be seated. "Repose all confidence in me, Madam,"
he said, "for I am not without experience in husbands. Good fellows on the whole, with their
gladstone bags and their pince-nez and their unmistakable respectability. But somehow they
have not acquired the knack of arriving when they are expected. Yours is the seventh who has
failed us by this train. True, the other six were coming from Liverpool, whereas the 6.30 has
come from London, but that is no excuse for them or us."

"My husband is coming from London," she asserted, searching in her reticule for documentary
evidence.

He looked out of the window, avoiding her eye. "In less than twenty minutes we have a nice
fat competent train arriving partly from Birmingham, partly from Manchester, partly from Sheffield
and partly from Birkenhead. There is even a dusty bit at the end which will have come all the
way from Scotland, though why I cannot say. It will be simply full of husbands; you wouldn't
care to try it, at any rate to let us show it you?"

"But my husband," she repeated.

"Is essentially a London man? Madam, we do not wish you to take any of these husbands we shall
show you if they do not suit your requirements; but do let us show them you."

"I know that my husband is coming from London," she persisted.

"Believe me, Madam," he protested, "I should not accuse you of being mistaken, even if your
husband should prove to be in this train I recommend. He might have deceived you."

She refused to budge. "My husband's postcard says he is coming in the 6.30 train from London.
The train has come and he is not in it."

The station-master asked to be allowed to see the postcard, not, he explained, because he didn't
believe her, but because he would like to have his worst suspicions of his Company's inefficiency
confirmed.

She handed it to him. He read the announcement, made briefly and without enthusiasm, of the
husband's proposed arrival "by the 6.30 train to-morrow." The woman smiled with triumph; the
station-master referred to the postmark. He did not smile triumphantly. He was too old a hand
for that.

"Will you allow me to intercede as a friend for all parties?" he asked. "Give him and us another
chance; go away now and give us all twenty-four hours to think it over. Then call again, and,
if your patience is rewarded, be generous and forgive us all."

After some debate she was induced to see reason in the proposal and consented to take the lenient
course. She rose to go.

"And if," said the station-master, showing her out, "if a train should arrive at 6.30 from
London to-morrow and disgorge this husband of yours, won't you do us all a little kindness?
Won't you make a point of telling the porter, all the porters, foremen porters, ticket collectors,
inspectors, casual postmen and even myself? You have no idea what a change it would be for
us to hear a lady saying, 'My husband ought to have come by this train, and he has!'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: FINANCIAL STRINGENCY AT THE SEASIDE; A GOOD PENNYWORTH.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR LOYAL STATUARY.

    "An attempt was made by the fountain in Piccadilly Circus to head a
    procession for Buckingham Palace to pay homage to King
    George."--Daily Mail.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER SMART ARREST BY THE POLICE.

    "Sergt. ---- found Mrs. ---- sitting in a pool of blood in a
    semi-conscious condition. The flow of blood was arrested, and a
    doctor summoned."--Northern Echo.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR MUSICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLUMN.

(With acknowledgments to "The Musical Herald.")

I THINK I am a tenor, but after taking lessons continuously for six years from sixteen different
masters I am still in doubt, and what is more, I am not quite certain whether I want to be.
Did not somebody once say that a tenor was not a man but a disease? I am a healthy normal subject,
and recently won the lawn-tennis singles at our local tournament. What puzzles me is my upper
register. After reaching the top A, if I relax the wind pressure and slant the voice in a slightly
backward direction towards the nasal cavities, I can produce a full rich B flat, or even C,
with the greatest ease. My family do not like it, but family criticism is seldom satisfactory.
Can you tell me whether this is a legitimate use of my vocal resources or not; also, whether
the resinous quality of my voice is likely to be affected by my wearing stand-up collars of
more than 2-1/2 inches in height? I have read somewhere that starched linen is a bad conductor
of sound.--MARIO JUNIOR.

ANSWER.--It is hard to tell whether you are a tenor or a forced-up baritone without hearing
or seeing you. Tenors are generally short, stubby men with brief necks, while baritones are
for the most part tall, spare and long-necked. It was HANS VON BÜLOW who said that a tenor
was a disease, but he was a pianist and a conductor. Do not "grouse" if you can sing tenor
parts and yet retain the volume and virility of a baritone. JEAN DE RESZKE began as a baritone
and is said to have earned £20,000 a year. The nasal tone that you speak of, when it approximates
to the whinnying of a horse or, better still, the trumpeting of an infuriated rogue elephant,
is a most valuable asset, but should be used with moderation in the family circle. Do not say
"resinous"; "resonant" is probably the word you mean. High stand-up collars are certainly to
be avoided, as they constrict the Adam's apple and muffle the tone of the voice. A soft turn-down
collar, such as those supplied by Pope Bros., is greatly to be preferred and imparts a romantic
and semi-Byronic appearance highly desirable in an artist.

I am a railway porter with a good bass voice, and having read that the great Russian singer
who has been appearing at Drury Lane began life in that position and is now paid at the rate
of £400 a night, I am anxious to follow his example, if I can obtain adequate guarantees of
success.--CLAPHAM JUNCTION.

ANSWER.--It is always dangerous to generalise from exceptional individual cases. Are you over
six feet high, and have you corn-coloured hair and blue yes, like CHALIAPINE? Again, Russian
railway porters are in the habit of shouting the names of stations, not only in a loud voice,
but with scrupulously clear articulation. Do not rashly abandon your career on the railway
on the off-chance of a vocal Bonanza. Remember the words of the poet:--

    O, ever since the world began,
    There never was and never can
    Be such a very useful man
      As the railway porter!

My voice is of good compass and volume, but it is lacking in the "rich fruity tone" which,
according to popular novelists, is indispensable to the exertion of a magnetic influence on
the hearer. Is it possible by diet to remedy this deficiency?--CONTRALTO.

ANSWER.--The use of an emollient diet is recommended by some authorities with a view to improving
and enriching vocal tone. You might try a course of Carlsbad plums, Devonshire cream, and peach-fed
Colorado ham. But it is easy to overdo the plummy tone, which is apt to become cloying.

Kindly explain the following terms taken from an article on SCRIABINE which recently appeared
in a leading daily paper: Psychical conjunctivitis; Katzenjammer; Cephaloedematous; Hokusai;
Asininity. What is the difference between the portamento and "scooping"? Why do opera singers
show such a marked tendency to embonpoint? Am I wrong in preferring the cornet to any other
wind instrument?--ANXIOUS ASPIRANT.

ANSWER.--This is not a general information bureau, but we will do our best. (1) Conjunctivitis
is properly a disease of the eyes; "psychical conjunctivitis" would be a sort of mental squint.
"Katzenjammer" is the German for "hot coppers." "Cephaloedematous" is not in the New Oxford
Dictionary, but apparently applies to a sufferer from swelled head. HOKUSAI was a Japanese
artist, and "asininity" is the special quality of the writer of the article from which you
have taken these words. (2) "Scooping" is the vulgarisation of the portamento, (3) Operatic
singers grow stout because they drink stout; also because much singing tends to expand the
larynx, pharynx and thorax, as well as the basilico-thaumaturgic cavities of the medulla oblongata.
(4) There is nothing criminal in preferring the cornet to any other wind instrument. Many pious
people prefer MARIE CORELLI to MILTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOUBLE LIFE.

When Araminta said that I must speak to the man next door about his black cat, I was greatly
perturbed. It appeared that the animal had acquired the habit of spending the night in our
house, and that Harriet didn't like it. I said that black cats brought good luck, and, anyhow,
by night all cats were grey. Araminta replied that this one was as black as a bilberry and
took fish. Walking out into the garden I began to meditate deeply.

Perhaps you do not immediately grasp what a terrible and dangerous thing it was that Araminta
had requested me to do. Between next door neighbours in the area of Greater London there subsist
relations of an infinite delicacy. They resemble the bloom upon a peach. They combine a sense
of mutual confidence and esteem with absolute determination not to let it get any further.
Mr. Trumpington (Harriet vouched for his name) and myself were certainly acquainted. In a sense
you may even say we were friends. If I happened to be murdered or assaulted by a footpad there
was not the smallest reason to suppose that Mr. Trumpington would refrain from giving the police
every assistance in identifying the criminal. Similarly, if Mr. Trumpington's house caught
fire, it was certain that I should be one of the first to offer him the loan of our garden syringe.

As things were, what happened was this. Twice or thrice a week we nodded pleasantly to each
other over the wall that divided our demesnes, through the interstices of our respective hollyhocks;
once, only once, in a mad burst of irresponsible gaiety, Mr. Trumpington had gone so far as
to murmur, "Good aft-" to me, and I had responded effusively, "-ernoon."

