There we went to bed that summer evening, on a sloping shelf in the bank, a couple of rods
from our boat, which was drawn up on the sand, and just behind a thin fringe of oaks which
bordered the river; without having disturbed any inhabitants but the spiders in the grass,
which came out by the light of our lamp, and crawled over our buffaloes.  When we looked out
from under the tent, the trees were seen dimly through the mist, and a cool dew hung upon the
grass, which seemed to rejoice in the night, and with the damp air we inhaled a solid fragrance.
Having eaten our supper of hot cocoa and bread and watermelon, we soon grew weary of conversing,
and writing in our journals, and, putting out the lantern which hung from the tent-pole, fell
asleep.

Unfortunately, many things have been omitted which should have been recorded in our journal;
for though we made it a rule to set down all our experiences therein, yet such a resolution
is very hard to keep, for the important experience rarely allows us to remember such obligations,
and so indifferent things get recorded, while that is frequently neglected.  It is not easy
to write in a journal what interests us at any time, because to write it is not what interests us.

Whenever we awoke in the night, still eking out our dreams with half-awakened thoughts, it
was not till after an interval, when the wind breathed harder than usual, flapping the curtains
of the tent, and causing its cords to vibrate, that we remembered that we lay on the bank of
the Merrimack, and not in our chamber at home.  With our heads so low in the grass, we heard
the river whirling and sucking, and lapsing downward, kissing the shore as it went, sometimes
rippling louder than usual, and again its mighty current making only a slight limpid, trickling
sound, as if our water-pail had sprung a leak, and the water were flowing into the grass by
our side.  The wind, rustling the oaks and hazels, impressed us like a wakeful and inconsiderate
person up at midnight, moving about, and putting things to rights, occasionally stirring up
whole drawers full of leaves at a puff. There seemed to be a great haste and preparation throughout
Nature, as for a distinguished visitor; all her aisles had to be swept in the night, by a thousand
hand-maidens, and a thousand pots to be boiled for the next day's feasting;--such a whispering
bustle, as if ten thousand fairies made their fingers fly, silently sewing at the new carpet
with which the earth was to be clothed, and the new drapery which was to adorn the trees. 
And then the wind would lull and die away, and we like it fell asleep again.

[page]

                            FRIDAY.

                               "The Boteman strayt
     Held on his course with stayed stedfastnesse,
     Ne ever shroncke, ne ever sought to bayt
     His tryed armes for toylesome wearinesse;
     But with his oares did sweepe the watry wildernesse."
                                                ^Spenser.^

[page]

                "Summer's robe grows
     Dusky, and like an oft-dyed garment shows."
                                       ^Donne.^

[page]

                       FRIDAY.

                        --*--

As we lay awake long before daybreak, listening to the rippling of the river, and the rustling
of the leaves, in suspense whether the wind blew up or down the stream, was favorable or unfavorable
to our voyage, we already suspected that there was a change in the weather, from a freshness
as of autumn in these sounds.  The wind in the woods sounded like an incessant waterfall dashing
and roaring amid rocks, and we even felt encouraged by the unusual activity of the elements.
He who hears the rippling of rivers in these degenerate days will not utterly despair.  That
night was the turning-point in the season.  We had gone to bed in summer, and we awoke in autumn;
for summer passes into autumn in some unimaginable point of time, like the turning of a leaf.

We found our boat in the dawn just as we had left it, and as if waiting for us, there on the
shore, in autumn, all cool and dripping with dew, and our tracks still fresh in the wet sand
around it, the fairies all gone or concealed.  Before five o'clock we pushed it into the fog,
and, leaping in, at one shove were out of sight of the shores, and began to sweep downward
with the rushing river, keeping a sharp lookout for rocks.  We could see only the yellow gurgling
water, and a solid bank of fog on every side, forming a small yard around us.  We soon passed
the mouth of the Souhegan, and the village of Merrimack, and as the mist gradually rolled away,
and we were relieved from the trouble of watching for rocks, we saw by the flitting clouds,
by the first russet tinge on the hills, by the rushing river, the cottages on shore, and the
shore itself, so coolly fresh and shining with dew, and later in the day, by the hue of the
grape-vine, the goldfinch on the willow, the flickers flying in flocks, and when we passed
near enough to the shore, as we fancied, by the faces of men, that the Fall had commenced.
The cottages looked more snug and comfortable, and their inhabitants were seen only for a moment,
and then went quietly in and shut the door, retreating inward to the haunts of summer.

     "And now the cold autumnal dews are seen
     To cobweb ev'ry green;
     And by the low-shorn rowens doth appear
     The fast-declining year."

We heard the sigh of the first autumnal wind, and even the water had acquired a grayer hue.
The sumach, grape, and maple were already changed, and the milkweed had turned to a deep rich
yellow.  In all woods the leaves were fast ripening for their fall; for their full veins and
lively gloss mark the ripe leaf, and not the sered one of the poets; and we knew that the maples,
stripped of their leaves among the earliest, would soon stand like a wreath of smoke along
the edge of the meadow.  Already the cattle were heard to low wildly in the pastures and along
the highways, restlessly running to and fro, as if in apprehension of the withering of the
grass and of the approach of winter.  Our thoughts, too, began to rustle.

As I pass along the streets of our village of Concord on the day of our annual Cattle-Show,
when it usually happens that the leaves of the elms and buttonwoods begin first to strew the
ground under the breath of the October wind, the lively spirits in their sap seem to mount
as high as any plough-boy's let loose that day; and they lead my thoughts away to the rustling
woods, where the trees are preparing for their winter campaign.  This autumnal festival, when
men are gathered in crowds in the streets as regularly and by as natural a law as the leaves
cluster and rustle by the wayside, is naturally associated in my mind with the fall of the
year.  The low of cattle in the streets sounds like a hoarse symphony or running bass to the
rustling of the leaves.  The wind goes hurrying down the country, gleaning every loose straw
that is left in the fields, while every farmer lad too appears to scud before it,--having donned
his best pea-jacket and pepper-and-salt waistcoat, his unbent trousers, outstanding rigging
of duck or kerseymere or corduroy, and his furry hat withal,--to country fairs and cattle-shows,
to that Rome among the villages where the treasures of the year are gathered.  All the land
over they go leaping the fences with their tough, idle palms, which have never learned to hang
by their sides, amid the low of calves and the bleating of sheep,--Amos, Abner, Elnathan, Elbridge,--

     "From steep pine-bearing mountains to the plain."

I love these sons of earth every mother's son of them, with their great hearty hearts rushing
tumultuously in herds from spectacle to spectacle, as if fearful lest there should not be time
between sun and sun to see them all, and the sun does not wait more than in haying-time.

     "Wise Nature's darlings, they live in the world
     Perplexing not themselves how it is hurled."

Running hither and thither with appetite for the coarse pastimes of the day, now with boisterous
speed at the heels of the inspired negro from whose larynx the melodies of all Congo and Guinea
Coast have broke loose into our streets; now to see the procession of a hundred yoke of oxen,
all as august and grave as Osiris, or the droves of neat cattle and milch cows as unspotted
as Isis or Io.  Such as had no love for Nature

                                    "at all,
       Came lovers home from this great festival."

They may bring their fattest cattle and richest fruits to the fair, but they are all eclipsed
by the show of men.  These are stirring autumn days, when men sweep by in crowds, amid the
rustle of leaves, like migrating finches; this is the true harvest of the year, when the air
is but the breath of men, and the rustling of leaves is as the trampling of the crowd.  We
read now-a-days of the ancient festivals, games, and processions of the Greeks and Etruscans,
with a little incredulity, or at least with little sympathy; but how natural and irrepressible
in every people is some hearty and palpable greeting of Nature.  The Corybantes, the Bacchantes,
the rude primitive tragedians with their procession and goat-song, and the whole paraphernalia
of the Panathenaea, which appear so antiquated and peculiar, have their parallel now.  The
husbandman is always a better Greek than the scholar is prepared to appreciate, and the old
custom still survives, while antiquarians and scholars grow gray in commemorating it.  The
farmers crowd to the fair to-day in obedience to the same ancient law, which Solon or Lycurgus
did not enact, as naturally as bees swarm and follow their queen.

It is worth the while to see the country's people, how they pour into the town, the sober farmer
folk, now all agog, their very shirt and coat-collars pointing forward,--collars so broad as
if they had put their shirts on wrong end upward, for the fashions always tend to superfluity,--and
with an unusual springiness in their gait, jabbering earnestly to one another.  The more supple
vagabond, too, is sure to appear on the least rumor of such a gathering, and the next day to
disappear, and go into his hole like the seventeen-year locust, in an ever-shabby coat, though
finer than the farmer's best, yet never dressed; come to see the sport, and have a hand in
what is going,--to know "what's the row," if there is any; to be where some men are drunk,
some horses race, some cockerels fight; anxious to be shaking props under a table, and above
all to see the "striped pig." He especially is the creature of the occasion.  He empties both
his pockets and his character into the stream, and swims in such a day.  He dearly loves the
social slush.  There is no reserve of soberness in him.

I love to see the herd of men feeding heartily on coarse and succulent pleasures, as cattle
on the husks and stalks of vegetables.  Though there are many crooked and crabbled specimens
of humanity among them, run all to thorn and rind, and crowded out of shape by adverse circumstances,
like the third chestnut in the burr, so that you wonder to see some heads wear a whole hat,
yet fear not that the race will fail or waver in them; like the crabs which grow in hedges,
they furnish the stocks of sweet and thrifty fruits still.  Thus is nature recruited from age
to age, while the fair and palatable varieties die out, and have their period.  This is that
mankind.  How cheap must be the material of which so many men are made.

The wind blew steadily down the stream, so that we kept our sails set, and lost not a moment
of the forenoon by delays, but from early morning until noon were continually dropping downward.
With our hands on the steering-paddle, which was thrust deep into the river, or bending to
the oar, which indeed we rarely relinquished, we felt each palpitation in the veins of our
steed, and each impulse of the wings which drew us above.  The current of our thoughts made
as sudden bends as the river, which was continually opening new prospects to the east or south,
but we are aware that rivers flow most rapidly and shallowest at these points.  The steadfast
shores never once turned aside for us, but still trended as they were made; why then should
we always turn aside for them?

A man cannot wheedle nor overawe his Genius.  It requires to be conciliated by nobler conduct
than the world demands or can appreciate.  These winged thoughts are like birds, and will not
be handled; even hens will not let you touch them like quadrupeds.  Nothing was ever so unfamiliar
and startling to a man as his own thoughts.

To the rarest genius it is the most expensive to succumb and conform to the ways of the world.
Genius is the worst of lumber, if the poet would float upon the breeze of popularity.  The
bird of paradise is obliged constantly to fly against the wind, lest its gay trappings, pressing
close to its body, impede its free movements.

He is the best sailor who can steer within the fewest points of the wind, and extract a motive
power out of the greatest obstacles.  Most begin to veer and tack as soon as the wind changes
from aft, and as within the tropics it does not blow from all points of the compass, there
are some harbors which they can never reach.

The poet is no tender slip of fairy stock, who requires peculiar institutions and edicts for
his defence, but the toughest son of earth and of Heaven, and by his greater strength and endurance
his fainting companions will recognize the God in him.  It is the worshippers of beauty, after
all, who have done the real pioneer work of the world.

The poet will prevail to be popular in spite of his faults, and in spite of his beauties too.
He will hit the nail on the head, and we shall not know the shape of his hammer.  He makes
us free of his hearth and heart, which is greater than to offer one the freedom of a city.

Great men, unknown to their generation, have their fame among the great who have preceded them,
and all true worldly fame subsides from their high estimate beyond the stars.

Orpheus does not hear the strains which issue from his lyre, but only those which are breathed
into it; for the original strain precedes the sound, by as much as the echo follows after.
The rest is the perquisite of the rocks and trees and beasts.

When I stand in a library where is all the recorded wit of the world, but none of the recording,
a mere accumulated, and not truly cumulative treasure, where immortal works stand side by side
with anthologies which did not survive their month, and cobweb and mildew have already spread
from these to the binding of those; and happily I am reminded of what poetry is,--I perceive
that Shakespeare and Milton did not foresee into what company they were to fall.  Alas! that
so soon the work of a true poet should be swept into such a dust-hole!

The poet will write for his peers alone.  He will remember only that he saw truth and beauty
from his position, and expect the time when a vision as broad shall overlook the same field
as freely.

We are often prompted to speak our thoughts to our neighbors, or the single travellers whom
we meet on the road, but poetry is a communication from our home and solitude addressed to
all Intelligence.  It never whispers in a private ear.  Knowing this, we may understand those
sonnets said to be addressed to particular persons, or "To a Mistress's Eyebrow." Let none
feel flattered by them.  For poetry write love, and it will be equally true.

No doubt it is an important difference between men of genius or poets, and men not of genius,
that the latter are unable to grasp and confront the thought which visits them.  But it is
because it is too faint for expression, or even conscious impression.  What merely quickens
or retards the blood in their veins and fills their afternoons with pleasure they know not
whence, conveys a distinct assurance to the finer organization of the poet.

We talk of genius as if it were a mere knack, and the poet could only express what other men
conceived.  But in comparison with his task, the poet is the least talented of any; the writer
of prose has more skill.  See what talent the smith has.  His material is pliant in his hands.
When the poet is most inspired, is stimulated by an aura which never even colors the afternoons
of common men, then his talent is all gone, and he is no longer a poet.  The gods do not grant
him any skill more than another. They never put their gifts into his hands, but they encompass
and sustain him with their breath.

To say that God has given a man many and great talents, frequently means that he has brought
his heavens down within reach of his hands.

When the poetic frenzy seizes us, we run and scratch with our pen, intent only on worms, calling
our mates around us, like the cock, and delighting in the dust we make, but do not detect where
the jewel lies, which, perhaps, we have in the mean time cast to a distance, or quite covered
up again.

The poet's body even is not fed like other men's, but he sometimes tastes the genuine nectar
and ambrosia of the gods, and lives a divine life.  By the healthful and invigorating thrills
of inspiration his life is preserved to a serene old age.

Some poems are for holidays only.  They are polished and sweet, but it is the sweetness of
sugar, and not such as toil gives to sour bread.  The breath with which the poet utters his
verse must be that by which he lives.

The true poem is not that which the public read.  There is always a poem not printed on paper,
coincident with the production of this, stereotyped in the poet's life.  It is what he has
become through his work.  Not how is the idea expressed in stone, or on canvas or paper, is
the question, but how far it has obtained form and expression in the life of the artist.  His
true work will not stand in any prince's gallery.

   My life has been the poem I would have writ,
   But I could not both live and utter it.

            THE POET'S DELAY.

     In vain I see the morning rise,
       In vain observe the western blaze,
     Who idly look to other skies,
       Expecting life by other ways.

     Amidst such boundless wealth without,
       I only still am poor within,
     The birds have sung their summer out,
       But still my spring does not begin.

     Shall I then wait the autumn wind,
       Compelled to seek a milder day,
     And leave no curious nest behind,
       No woods still echoing to my lay?

This raw and gusty day, and the creaking of the oaks and pines on shore, reminded us of more
northern climes than Greece, and more wintry seas than the Aegean.

The genuine remains of Ossian, or those ancient poems which bear his name, though of less fame
and extent, are, in many respects, of the same stamp with the Iliad itself.  He asserts the
dignity of the bard no less than Homer, and in his era we hear of no other priest than he.
It will not avail to call him a heathen, because he personifies the sun and addresses it; and
what if his heroes did "worship the ghosts of their fathers," their thin, airy, and unsubstantial
forms? we worship but the ghosts of our fathers in more substantial forms.  We cannot but respect
the vigorous faith of those heathen, who sternly believed somewhat, and are inclined to say
to the critics, who are offended by their superstitious rites,--Don't interrupt these men's
prayers.  As if we knew more about human life and a God, than the heathen and ancients.  Does
English theology contain the recent discoveries!

Ossian reminds us of the most refined and rudest eras, of Homer, Pindar, Isaiah, and the American
Indian.  In his poetry, as in Homer's, only the simplest and most enduring features of humanity
are seen, such essential parts of a man as Stonehenge exhibits of a temple; we see the circles
of stone, and the upright shaft alone.  The phenomena of life acquire almost an unreal and
gigantic size seen through his mists.  Like all older and grander poetry, it is distinguished
by the few elements in the lives of its heroes.  They stand on the heath, between the stars
and the earth, shrunk to the bones and sinews.  The earth is a boundless plain for their deeds.
They lead such a simple, dry, and everlasting life, as hardly needs depart with the flesh,
but is transmitted entire from age to age.  There are but few objects to distract their sight,
and their life is as unencumbered as the course of the stars they gaze at.

     "The wrathful kings, on cairns apart,
     Look forward from behind their shields,
     And mark the wandering stars,
     That brilliant westward move."

It does not cost much for these heroes to live; they do not want much furniture.  They are
such forms of men only as can be seen afar through the mist, and have no costume nor dialect,
but for language there is the tongue itself, and for costume there are always the skins of
beasts and the bark of trees to be had.  They live out their years by the vigor of their constitutions.
They survive storms and the spears of their foes, and perform a few heroic deeds, and then

     "Mounds will answer questions of them,
     For many future years."

Blind and infirm, they spend the remnant of their days listening to the lays of the bards,
and feeling the weapons which laid their enemies low, and when at length they die, by a convulsion
of nature, the bard allows us a short and misty glance into futurity, yet as clear, perchance,
as their lives had been.  When Mac-Roine was slain,

     "His soul departed to his warlike sires,
     To follow misty forms of boars,
     In tempestuous islands bleak."

The hero's cairn is erected, and the bard sings a brief significant strain, which will suffice
for epitaph and biography.

     "The weak will find his bow in the dwelling,
     The feeble will attempt to bend it."

Compared with this simple, fibrous life, our civilized history appears the chronicle of debility,
of fashion, and the arts of luxury.  But the civilized man misses no real refinement in the
poetry of the rudest era.  It reminds him that civilization does but dress men.  It makes shoes,
but it does not toughen the soles of the feet.  It makes cloth of finer texture, but it does
not touch the skin.  Inside the civilized man stand the savage still in the place of honor.
We are those blue-eyed, yellow-haired Saxons, those slender, dark-haired Normans.

The profession of the bard attracted more respect in those days from the importance attached
to fame.  It was his province to record the deeds of heroes.  When Ossian hears the traditions
of inferior bards, he exclaims,--

     "I straightway seize the unfutile tales,
     And send them down in faithful verse."

His philosophy of life is expressed in the opening of the third Duan of Ca-Lodin.

     "Whence have sprung the things that are?
     And whither roll the passing years?
     Where does Time conceal its two heads,
     In dense impenetrable gloom,
     Its surface marked with heroes' deeds alone?
     I view the generations gone;
     The past appears but dim;
     As objects by the moon's faint beams,
     Reflected from a distant lake.
     I see, indeed, the thunderbolts of war,
     But there the unmighty joyless dwell,
     All those who send not down their deeds
     To far, succeeding times."

The ignoble warriors die and are forgotten;

     "Strangers come to build a tower,
     And throw their ashes overhand;
     Some rusted swords appear in dust;
     One, bending forward, says,
     `The arms belonged to heroes gone;
     We never heard their praise in song.'"

The grandeur of the similes is another feature which characterizes great poetry.  Ossian seems
to speak a gigantic and universal language.  The images and pictures occupy even much space
in the landscape, as if they could be seen only from the sides of mountains, and plains with
a wide horizon, or across arms of the sea.  The machinery is so massive that it cannot be less
than natural.  Oivana says to the spirit of her father, "Gray-haired Torkil of Torne," seen
in the skies,

     "Thou glidest away like receding ships."

So when the hosts of Fingal and Starne approach to battle,

     "With murmurs loud, like rivers far,
     The race of Torne hither moved."

And when compelled to retire,

     "dragging his spear behind,
     Cudulin sank in the distant wood,
     Like a fire upblazing ere it dies."

Nor did Fingal want a proper audience when he spoke;

     "A thousand orators inclined
     To hear the lay of Fingal."

The threats too would have deterred a man.  Vengeance and terror were real.  Trenmore threatens
the young warrior whom he meets on a foreign strand,

     "Thy mother shall find thee pale on the shore,
     While lessening on the waves she spies
     The sails of him who slew her son."

If Ossian's heroes weep, it is from excess of strength, and not from weakness, a sacrifice
or libation of fertile natures, like the perspiration of stone in summer's heat.  We hardly
know that tears have been shed, and it seems as if weeping were proper only for babes and heroes.
Their joy and their sorrow are made of one stuff, like rain and snow, the rainbow and the mist.
When Fillan was worsted in fight, and ashamed in the presence of Fingal,

     "He strode away forthwith,
     And bent in grief above a stream,
     His cheeks bedewed with tears.
     From time to time the thistles gray
     He lopped with his inverted lance."

Crodar, blind and old, receives Ossian, son of Fingal, who comes to aid him in war;--

     "`My eyes have failed,' says he, `Crodar is blind,
     Is thy strength like that of thy fathers?
     Stretch, Ossian, thine arm to the hoary-haired.'
        I gave my arm to the king.
     The aged hero seized my hand;
     He heaved a heavy sigh;
     Tears flowed incessant down his cheek.
     `Strong art thou, son of the mighty,
     Though not so dreadful as Morven's prince.

     Let my feast be spread in the hall,
     Let every sweet-voiced minstrel sing;
     Great is he who is within my walls,
     Sons of wave-echoing Croma.'"

Even Ossian himself, the hero-bard, pays tribute to the superior strength of his father Fingal.

     "How beauteous, mighty man, was thy mind,
     Why succeeded Ossian without its strength?"

                    ----------------

While we sailed fleetly before the wind, with the river gurgling under our stern, the thoughts
of autumn coursed as steadily through our minds, and we observed less what was passing on the
shore, than the dateless associations and impressions which the season awakened, anticipating
in some measure the progress of the year.

Sitting with our faces now up stream, we studied the landscape by degrees, as one unrolls a
map, rock, tree, house, hill, and meadow, assuming new and varying positions as wind and water
shifted the scene, and there was variety enough for our entertainment in the metamorphoses
of the simplest objects. Viewed from this side the scenery appeared new to us.

The most familiar sheet of water viewed from a new hill-top, yields a novel and unexpected
pleasure.  When we have travelled a few miles, we do not recognize the profiles even of the
hills which overlook our native village, and perhaps no man is quite familiar with the horizon
as seen from the hill nearest to his house, and can recall its outline distinctly when in the
valley. We do not commonly know, beyond a short distance, which way the hills range which take
in our houses and farms in their sweep. As if our birth had at first sundered things, and we
had been thrust up through into nature like a wedge, and not till the wound heals and the scar
disappears, do we begin to discover where we are, and that nature is one and continuous everywhere.
It is an important epoch when a man who has always lived on the east side of a mountain, and
seen it in the west, travels round and sees it in the east.  Yet the universe is a sphere whose
centre is wherever there is intelligence.  The sun is not so central as a man.  Upon an isolated
hill-top, in an open country, we seem to ourselves to be standing on the boss of an immense
shield, the immediate landscape being apparently depressed below the more remote, and rising
gradually to the horizon, which is the rim of the shield, villas, steeples, forests, mountains,
one above another, till they are swallowed up in the heavens.  The most distant mountains in
the horizon appear to rise directly from the shore of that lake in the woods by which we chance
to be standing, while from the mountain-top, not only this, but a thousand nearer and larger
lakes, are equally unobserved.

Seen through this clear atmosphere, the works of the farmer, his ploughing and reaping, had
a beauty to our eyes which he never saw.  How fortunate were we who did not own an acre of
these shores, who had not renounced our title to the whole.  One who knew how to appropriate
the true value of this world would be the poorest man in it.  The poor rich man! all he has
is what he has bought.  What I see is mine.  I am a large owner in the Merrimack intervals.

     Men dig and dive but cannot my wealth spend,
       Who yet no partial store appropriate,
     Who no armed ship into the Indies send,
       To rob me of my orient estate.

He is the rich man, and enjoys the fruits of riches, who summer and winter forever can find
delight in his own thoughts.  Buy a farm! What have I to pay for a farm which a farmer will take?

When I visit again some haunt of my youth, I am glad to find that nature wears so well.  The
landscape is indeed something real, and solid, and sincere, and I have not put my foot through
it yet.  There is a pleasant tract on the bank of the Concord, called Conantum, which I have
in my mind;--the old deserted farm-house, the desolate pasture with its bleak cliff, the open
wood, the river-reach, the green meadow in the midst, and the moss-grown wild-apple orchard,--places
where one may have many thoughts and not decide anything.  It is a scene which I can not only
remember, as I might a vision, but when I will can bodily revisit, and find it even so, unaccountable,
yet unpretending in its pleasant dreariness.  When my thoughts are sensible of change, I love
to see and sit on rocks which I have known, and pry into their moss, and see unchangeableness
so established.  I not yet gray on rocks forever gray, I no longer green under the evergreens.
There is something even in the lapse of time by which time recovers itself.

As we have said, it proved a cool as well as breezy day, and by the time we reached Penichook
Brook we were obliged to sit muffled in our cloaks, while the wind and current carried us along.
We bounded swiftly over the rippling surface, far by many cultivated lands and the ends of
fences which divided innumerable farms, with hardly a thought for the various lives which they
separated; now by long rows of alders or groves of pines or oaks, and now by some homestead
where the women and children stood outside to gaze at us, till we had swept out of their sight,
and beyond the limit of their longest Saturday ramble.  We glided past the mouth of the Nashua,
and not long after, of Salmon Brook, without more pause than the wind.

     Salmon Brook,
     Penichook,
     Ye sweet waters of my brain,
     When shall I look,
     Or cast the hook,
     In your waves again?

     Silver eels,
     Wooden creels,
     These the baits that still allure,
     And dragon-fly
     That floated by,
     May they still endure?

The shadows chased one another swiftly over wood and meadow, and their alternation harmonized
with our mood.  We could distinguish the clouds which cast each one, though never so high in
the heavens.  When a shadow flits across the landscape of the soul, where is the substance?
Probably, if we were wise enough, we should see to what virtue we are indebted for any happier
moment we enjoy.  No doubt we have earned it at some time; for the gifts of Heaven are never
quite gratuitous.  The constant abrasion and decay of our lives makes the soil of our future
growth.  The wood which we now mature, when it becomes virgin mould, determines the character
of our second growth, whether that be oaks or pines. Every man casts a shadow; not his body
only, but his imperfectly mingled spirit.  This is his grief.  Let him turn which way he will,
it falls opposite to the sun; short at noon, long at eve. Did you never see it?--But, referred
to the sun, it is widest at its base, which is no greater than his own opacity.  The divine
light is diffused almost entirely around us, and by means of the refraction of light, or else
by a certain self-luminousness, or, as some will have it, transparency, if we preserve ourselves
untarnished, we are able to enlighten our shaded side.  At any rate, our darkest grief has
that bronze color of the moon eclipsed.  There is no ill which may not be dissipated, like
the dark, if you let in a stronger light upon it.  Shadows, referred to the source of light,
are pyramids whose bases are never greater than those of the substances which cast them, but
light is a spherical congeries of pyramids, whose very apexes are the sun itself, and hence
the system shines with uninterrupted light. But if the light we use is but a paltry and narrow
taper, most objects will cast a shadow wider than themselves.

The places where we had stopped or spent the night in our way up the river, had already acquired
a slight historical interest for us; for many upward day's voyaging were unravelled in this
rapid downward passage.  When one landed to stretch his limbs by walking, he soon found himself
falling behind his companion, and was obliged to take advantage of the curves, and ford the
brooks and ravines in haste, to recover his ground.  Already the banks and the distant meadows
wore a sober and deepened tinge, for the September air had shorn them of their summer's pride.

     "And what's a life?  The flourishing array
     Of the proud summer meadow, which to-day
     Wears her green plush, and is to-morrow hay."

The air was really the "fine element" which the poets describe. It had a finer and sharper
grain, seen against the russet pastures and meadows, than before, as if cleansed of the summer's
impurities.

