"A LAWYER'S STORY.--Tom strikes Dick over the shoulders with a rattan as big as your little
finger. A lawyer would tell you the story something in this way:--And that, whereas the said
Thomas, at the said Providence, in the year and day aforesaid, in and upon the body of the
said Richard, in the peace of God and the State, then and there being, did make a most violent
assault and inflicted a great many and divers blows, kicks, cuffs, thumps, bumps, contusions,
gashes, wounds, hurts, damages, and injuries, in and upon the head, neck, breast, stomach,
lips, knees, shins, and heels of the said Richard, with divers sticks, staves, canes, poles,
clubs, logs of wood, stones, guns, dirks, swords, daggers, pistols, cutlasses, bludgeons, blunderbusses,
and boarding pikes, then and there held in the hands, fists, claws, and clutches of him the
said Thomas."

       *       *       *       *       *

WATERLOO--"FORGET ME NOT."

    "On one of these graves I observed the little wild blue flower,
    known by the name of 'Forget me not'."--Visit to the Field of
    Waterloo.

  No marble tells, nor columns rise,
    To bid the passing stranger mourn,
  Where valour fought, and bled, and died,
    From friends and life abruptly torn.

  Yet on the earth that veils[10] their heads,
    Where bravest hearts are doom'd to rot,
  This simple flower, with meek appeal,
    Prefers the prayer "Forget me not."

  Forget! forbid my heart responds
    While bending o'er the hero's grave--
  Forbid that e'er oblivion's gloom
    Should shade the spot where rest the brave.

  Fond kindred at this awful shrine
    Will oft, with footsteps faltering,
  Approach and drop the pious tear--
    Sad Memory's purest offering.

  And well their country marks those deeds--
    The land that gave each bosom fire:
  Deeds that her proudest triumph won,
    But gaining, saw her sons expire.

  And ages hence will Britain's sons,
    As trophied tributes meet their view,
  Admire, exult--yet mourn the pangs
    These glories cost, at Waterloo.

D.

    [10] The layer of earth scarce covers the bodies, so may be
    called a veil.

       *       *       *       *       *

SWORD PRESENTED BY THE KING TO THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON, ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF WATERLOO.

On the hilt, and executed in high relief, are branches of oak surrounding the crown. The bark
of the branches are opening, which display the words--"India, Copenhagen, Peninsula, and Waterloo."
The top part of the scabbard exhibits his majesty's arms, initials, and crown; the middle of
the scabbard exhibits the arms and orders of the Duke of Wellington on the one side, and on
the reverse his batons. The lower end has the thunderbolt and wings, the whole surrounded with
oak leaves and laurel, with a rich foliage, in which was introduced the flower of the Lotus.
The blade exhibits, in has relief, his majesty's arms, initials, and crown; the arms, orders,
and batons, of the Duke of Wellington, Hercules taming the tiger, the thunderbolt, the British
colours bound up with the caduceus and fasces, surrounded by laurel, and over them the words--"India,
Copenhagen, Peninsula, and Waterloo," terminating with a sheathed sword, surrounded by laurel
and palm.

       *       *       *       *       *

ODDITIES.

Fashion-mongers make odd work with language. Thus, we read of Mrs. Ravenshaw giving a "petit"
souper to about 150 of the haut ton.

The Court Journal, too, tells us that a few days since Lord Lansdowne met with "a severe accident,"
by which "he suffered no material injury."

The Queen's dress at her last ball was "white and silver, striped with blue." The song says--

  To be nice about trifles
  Is trifling and folly;--

but the modistes can gather little from such a description as the above.

In the Zoological Gardens is a pheasant, one of whose feathers measures 5 feet 11 inches in length!

A "Charming Fellow,"--The records of the Horticultural Society inform us that Lady Cochrane
has been elected "a Fellow of the Society."

VEDI PAGANINI E MORI.
  See Paganini, and then die!
    I beg to tell a different story;
  And to the bowing crowd I cry,
    See Paganini, and then Mori!
                                 Court Journal.

In a List of New Books and Reprints we find one by "Bishop Home; in silk, 2s. 6d."

         Epitaph on Spenser.
             In Spenserum.

  Famous alive and dead, here is the odds,
  Then god of poets, now poet of the gods.

The Philomathic Society of Warsaw have elected Mr. Campbell a corresponding member, as "Campbell
Tomes Poète Anglais."--Literary Gazette.

Anatomy.--The price for unopened subjects in Paris is 5 francs, or 4s. 2d.; and 3 francs, or
2s. 6d. for opened ones.--Lancet.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LORD CHANCELLOR.

Vol. XVII. of the MIRROR,

With a Steel-plate Portrait of this illustrious Individual, Memoir, &c., 50 Engravings, and
450 closely printed Pages, will be published on the 30th instant, price 5s. 6d. boards.

Part 110, price 10d., will be ready on the same day.