These are the officers for whom the War Department had erected their arbitrary bar at captaincy,
and declared that no show of efficiency could secure for them the titular rank which they more
than once actually exercised. For they were repeatedly in command of their companies through
sickness or absence of their captains. They served as officers without the incentive which
comes from hope of promotion. They were forced to see the credit of their labors go to others,
and to share more than once in discredit for which they were not responsible. They were, and
in this lay their chief embarrassment, without the security and protection which higher rank
would have accorded them. In case of trial by court-martial, captains and other higher officers
filled the court to the exclusion of almost all others. These were white men. It is gratifying
to record that the War Department recognized this special injustice to colored officers, and
in the two regiments of colored volunteers recruited for service in the Philippines all the
line-officers are colored men, the field officers being white, and appointed from the Regular
Army in pursuance of a general policy. Thus far has the general government advanced in recognition
of the military capacity of the Negro. In the swing of the pendulum the nation is now at the
place where the hardy General Butler was thirty-seven years ago, when he organized the three
regiments of Louisiana Native Guards with all line-officers colored.

The way in which modern armies are organized and perfected leaves little necessity for an equipment
of exceptional personal gifts in order to exercise ordinary military command. The whole thing
is subordinate, and the field for personal initiative is contracted to the minimum. In our
own army the President is Commander-in-Chief, and the command descends through a multitude
of subordinate grades down to the lowest commissioned officer in the service. We have "Articles
of War" and "Regulations," and the entire discipline and government of the army is committed
to writing. There is no chance to enshroud in mystery the ability to command. For ordinary
military command, with intelligence the chief requisite, little is required beyond courage,
firmness and good judgment. These qualities are in no respect natural barriers for colored men.

This last story of the Negro soldier's efficiency and gallantry, told in the pages of this
book, teaches its own very simple conclusion. The Cuban campaign has forced the nation to recognize
the completion of the Negro's evolution as a soldier in the Army of the United States. The
colored American soldier, by his own prowess, has won an acknowledged place by the side of
the best trained fighters with arms. In the fullness of his manhood he has no rejoicing in
the patronizing paean, "the colored troops fought nobly," nor does he glow at all when told
of his "faithfulness" and "devotion" to his white officers, qualities accentuated to the point
where they might well fit an affectionate dog. He lays claim to no prerogative other than that
of a plain citizen of the Republic, trained to the profession of arms. The measure of his demand--and
it is the demand of ten millions of his fellow-citizens allied to him by race--is that the
full manhood privileges of a soldier be accorded him. On his record in arms, not excluding
his manifest capacity to command, the colored soldier, speaking for the entire body of colored
citizens in this country, only demands that the door of the nation's military training school
be freely open to the capable of his race, and the avenue of promotion from the ranks be accessible
to his tried efficiency; that no hindrance prevent competent colored men from taking their
places as officers as well as soldiers in the nation's permanent military establishment.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] Headquarters Department of the Gulf,
     New Orleans, August 22, 1862.

     (Wilson: Black Phalanx, p. 194.)

[27] De Tocqueville: L'Ancien Régime et La Revolution, p. 125-6.

[28] Thomas Westworth Higginson: Army Life in a Black Regiment, pp. 57-8.

[29] Thomas Wentworth Higginson: Army Life in a Black Regiment, p. 261.

[30] Williams's Negro Troops in the Rebellion, pp. 339-40, quoting the order.

[31] Williams's Negro Troops in the Rebellion, pp. 334-6, original order quoted.

[32] See pp. 351-6 MS.

[33] Wilson: Black Phalanx, p. 211, original order quoted.

[34] Campaigns of the Civil War. F.V. Greene. The Mississippi, p. 226 et seq.

[35] Williams's Negro Troops in the Rebellion, p. 221, original order quoted.

[36] MS. Archives of Massachusetts, Vol. 180, p. 241, quoted in Williams's Negro Troops in
the Rebellion, p. 13.

APPENDIX.

The correspondence following shows the progress of the negotiations for the surrender of the
city of Santiago and the Spanish Army, from the morning of July 3d until the final convention
was signed on the sixteenth of the same month. This surrender virtually closed the war, but
did not restore the contending nations to a status of peace. Twenty-three thousand Spanish
soldiers had laid down their arms and had been transformed from enemies to friends. On the
tenth of August following, a protocol was submitted by the President of the United States,
which was accepted by the Spanish cabinet on the eleventh, and on the twelfth the President
announced the cessation of hostilities, thus closing a war which had lasted one hundred and
ten days. On the tenth of December a Treaty of Peace between the United States and Spain was
signed at Paris, which was subsequently ratified by both nations, and diplomatic relations
fully restored. The war, though short, had been costly. One hundred and fifty million dollars
had been spent in its prosecution, and there were left on our hands the unsolved problem of
Cuba and the Philippines, which promised much future trouble.

Within a month from the signing of the convention, the Army of Invasion, known as the Fifth
Army Corps, was on its homeward voyage, and by the latter part of August the whole command
was well out of Cuba. Well did the soldiers themselves, as well as their friends, realize,
as the former returned from that campaign of a hundred days, that war in the tropics was neither
a pastime nor a practice march. The campaign had tested the powers of endurance of the men
to its utmost limit. The horrors of war were brought directly to the face of the people, as
the ten thousand invalids dragged their debilitated forms from the transports to their detention
camps, or to the hospitals, some too helpless to walk, and many to die soon after greeting
their native shores. Those who had been so enthusiastic for the war were now quiet, and were
eagerly laying the blame for the sorrow and suffering before them upon the shoulders of those
who had conducted the war. Few stopped to think that a good part of this woe might be justly
charged to those who had constantly resisted the establishment of an adequate standing army,
and who, with inconsistent vehemence, had urged the nation into a war, regardless of its military
equipment. The emaciated veterans arriving at Montauk were spoken of as the evidences of "military
incompetency;" they were also evidence of that narrow statesmanship which ignores the constant
suggestions of military experience.

     The Commanding General, Spanish Forces, Santiago de Cuba, Cuba.

     Sir:--I was officially informed last night that Admiral
     Cervera is now a captive on board the U.S.S. Gloucester, and
     is unharmed. He was then in the harbor of Siboney. I regret
     also to have to announce to you the death of General Vara
     del Rey at El Caney, who, with two of his sons, was killed
     in the battle of July 1st. His body will be buried this
     morning with military honors. His brother,
     Lieutenant-Colonel Vara del Rey, is wounded and a prisoner
     in my hands, together with the following officers: Captain
     Don Antonio Vara del Rey, Captain Isidor Arias, Captain
     Antonio Mansas, and Captain Manuel Romero, who, though
     severely wounded, will all probably survive.

     I also have to announce to you that the Spanish fleet, with
     the exception of one vessel, was destroyed, and this one is
     being so vigorously pursued that it will be impossible for
     it to escape. General Pando is opposed by forces sufficient
     to hold him in check.

     In view of the above, I would suggest that, to save needless
     effusion of blood and the distress of many people, you may
     reconsider your determination of yesterday. Your men have
     certainly shown the gallantry which was expected of them.

     I am, sir, with great respect,

     Your obedient servant,

     WILLIAM R. SHAFTER,
     Major-General, Commanding United States Forces.

     Headquarters Fifth Army Corps,
     Camp near San Juan River, Cuba, July 4, 1898.

     Sir:--It will give me great pleasure to return to the city
     of Santiago at an early hour to-morrow morning all the
     wounded Spanish officers now at El Caney who are able to be
     carried and who will give their parole not to serve against
     the United States until regularly exchanged. I make this
     proposition, as I am not so situated as to give these
     officers the care and attention that they can receive at the
     hands of their military associates and from their own
     surgeons; though I shall, of course, give them every kind
     treatment that it is possible to do under such adverse
     circumstances.

     Army of the Island of Cuba,
     Fifth Corps, General Staff.

     To His Excellency the Commander-in-Chief of the American Forces.

     Excellency:--I have the honor to reply to the three
     communications of your Excellency, dated to-day, and I am
     very grateful for the news you give in regard to the
     generals, chiefs, officers and troops that are your
     prisoners, and of the good care that you give to the wounded
     in your possession. With respect to the wounded, I have no
     objection to receiving in this place those that your
     Excellency may willingly deliver me, but I am not authorized
     by the General-in-Chief to make any exchange, as he has
     reserved to himself that authority. Yet I have given him
     notice of the proposition of your Excellency.

     It is useless for me to tell you how grateful I am for the
     interest that your Excellency has shown for the prisoners
     and corpse of General Vara del Rey, giving you many thanks
     for the chivalrous treatment.

     The same reasons that I explained to you yesterday, I have
     to give again to-day--that this place will not be
     surrendered.

     I am, yours with great respect and consideration,

     (Signed) JOSE TORAL.

     In Santiago de Cuba, July 4, 1898.

     To the Commander-in-Chief, Spanish Forces, Santiago de Cuba.

     Sir:--In view of the events of the 3d instant, I have the
     honor to lay before your Excellency certain propositions to
     which, I trust, your Excellency, will give the consideration
     which, in my judgment, they deserve.

     I inclose a bulletin of the engagement of Sunday morning
     which resulted in the complete destruction of Admiral
     Cervera's fleet, the loss of six hundred of his officers and
     men, and the capture of the remainder. The Admiral, General
     Paredes and all others who escaped alive are now prisoners
     on board the Harvard and St. Louis, and the latter ship, in
     which are the Admiral, General Paredes and the surviving
     captains (all except the captain of the Almirante Oquendo,
     who was slain) has already sailed for the United States. If
     desired by you, this may be confirmed by your Excellency
     sending an officer under a flag of truce to Admiral Sampson,
     and he can arrange to visit the Harvard, which will not sail
     until to-morrow, and obtain the details from Spanish
     officers and men on board that ship.

     Our fleet is now perfectly free to act, and I have the honor
     to state that unless a surrender be arranged by noon of the
     9th instant, a bombardment will be begun and continued by
     the heavy guns of our ships. The city is within easy range
     of these guns, the eight-inch being capable of firing 9,500
     yards, the thirteen-inch, of course, much farther. The ships
     can so lie that with a range of 8,000 yards they can reach
     the centre of the city.

     I make this suggestion of a surrender purely in a
     humanitarian spirit. I do not wish to cause the slaughter of
     any more men, either of your Excellency's forces or my own,
     the final result, under circumstances so disadvantageous to
     your Excellency being a foregone conclusion.

     As your Excellency may wish to make reference of so
     momentous a question to your Excellency's home government,
     it is for this purpose that I have placed the time of the
     resumption of hostilities sufficiently far in the future to
     allow a reply being received.

     I beg an early answer from your Excellency.

     I have the honor to be,

     Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

     W. R. SHAFTER,
     Major-General, Commanding.

     Headquarters Fifth Army Corps,
     Camp near Santiago, July 9, 1898.

     Hon. Secretary of War, Washington, D. C.

     I forwarded General Toral's proposition to evacuate the town
     this morning without consulting any one. Since then I have
     seen the general officers commanding divisions, who agree
     with me in that it should be accepted.

     1st. It releases at once the harbor.

     2d. It permits the return of thousands of women, children
     and old men, who have left the town, fearing bombardment,
     and are now suffering fearfully where they are, though I am
     doing my best to supply them with food.

     3d. It saves the great destruction of property which a
     bombardment would entail, most of which belongs to Cubans
     and foreign residents.

     4th. It at once releases this command while it is in good
     health for operations elsewhere. There are now three cases
     of yellow fever at Siboney in a Michigan regiment, and if it
     gets started, no one knows where it will stop.

     We lose by this, simply some prisoners we do not want and
     the arms they carry. I believe many of them will desert and
     return to our lines. I was told by a sentinel who deserted
     last night that two hundred men wanted to come, but were
     afraid our men would fire upon them.

     W.R. SHAFTER,
     Major-General, United States Volunteers.

Reply.

     Washington, D.C., July 9, 1898.

     Major-General Shafter, Playa, Cuba.

     In reply to your telegram recommending terms of evacuation
     as proposed by the Spanish commander, after careful
     consideration by the President and Secretary of War, I am
     directed to say that you have repeatedly been advised that
     you would not be expected to make an assault upon the enemy
     at Santiago until you were prepared to do the work
     thoroughly. When you are ready this will be done. Your
     telegram of this morning said your position was impregnable
     and that you believed the enemy would yet surrender
     unconditionally. You have also assured us that you could
     force their surrender by cutting off their supplies. Under
     these circumstances, your message recommending that Spanish
     troops be permitted to evacuate and proceed without
     molestation to Holguin is a great surprise and is not
     approved. The responsibility for the destruction and
     distress to the inhabitants rests entirely with the Spanish
     commander. The Secretary of War orders that when you are
     strong enough to destroy the enemy and take Santiago, you do
     it. If you have not force enough, it will be despatched to
     you at the earliest moment possible. Reinforcements are on
     the way of which you have already been apprised. In the
     meantime, nothing is lost by holding the position you now
     have, and which you regard as impregnable.

     Acknowledge receipt. By order of the Secretary of War.
     (Signed) H.C. CORBIN, Adjutant-General.

     Headquarters United States Forces,
     Camp near San Juan River, Cuba, July 11, 1898.

     To His Excellency, the Commander-in-Chief of the Spanish Forces,
     Santiago de Cuba.

Reply.

     Army of the Island of Cuba, Fourth Corps,
     July 11, 1898.

     To His Excellency, the Commander-in-Chief of the Forces of
     the United States, in the Camp of the San Juan.

     Esteemed Sir:--I have the honor to advise your Eminence that
     your communication of this date is received, and in reply
     desire to confirm that which I said in my former
     communication, and also to advise you that I have
     communicated your proposition to the General-in-Chief.
     Reiterating my sentiments, I am,

     Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

     (Signed) JOSE TORAL,
     Commander-in-Chief of the Fourth Corps and Military Governor
     of Santiago.

     I think it my duty to inform your Excellency that during
     this armistice I will not move any of my troops that occupy
     the advanced line, but the forces that arrived to-day and
     which are debarking at Siboney require moving to this camp.

     I wish that your Excellency would honor me with a personal
     interview to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock. I will come
     accompanied by the Commanding General of the American army,
     and by an interpreter, which will permit you to be
     accompanied by two or three persons of your staff who speak
     English.

     Army of the Island of Cuba, Fourth Corps,
     Santiago de cuba, July 12, 1898--9 P. M.

     To His Excellency, the General of the American Troops.

     Esteemed Sir:--I have the honor to answer your favor of this
     date, inform your Excellency that in deference to your
     desires I will be much honored by a conference with his
     Excellency, the Commanding General of your army, and your
     Excellency, to-morrow morning at the hour you have seen fit
     to appoint.

     Preliminary agreement for the capitulation of the Spanish
     forces which constitute the division of Santiago de Cuba,
     occupying the territory herein set forth, said capitulation
     authorized by the Commander-in-Chief of the Island of Cuba,
     agreed to by General Toral and awaiting the approbation of
     the Government at Madrid, and subject to the following
     conditions:

     Submitted by the undersigned Commissioners--

     Brigadier-General Don Frederick Escario, Lieutenant-Colonel
     of Staff Don Ventura Fontan and Mr. Robert Mason, of the
     city of Santiago de Cuba, representing General Toral,
     commanding Spanish forces, to Major-General Joseph Wheeler,
     U.S.V., Major-General H.W. Lawton, U.S.V., and First
     Lieutenant J.D. Miley, Second Artillery, A.D.C, representing
     General Shafter, commanding American forces, for the
     capitulation of the Spanish forces comprised in that portion
     of the Island of Cuba east of a line passing through
     Aserradero, Dos Palmas, Palma Soriano, Cauto Abajo,
     Escondida, Tanamo and Aguilera, said territory being known
     as the Eastern District of Santiago, commanded by General
     Jose Toral.

     1. That pending arrangements for capitulation all
     hostilities between American and Spanish forces in this
     district shall absolutely and unequivocally cease.

     2. That this capitulation includes all the forces and war
     material in said territory.

     3. That after the signing of the final capitulation the
     United States agrees, with as little delay as possible, to
     transport all the Spanish troops in said district to the
     Kingdom of Spain, the troops, as near as possible, to embark
     at the port nearest the garrison they now occupy.

     4. That the officers of the Spanish Army be permitted to
     retain their side arms, and both officers and enlisted men
     their personal property.

     5. That after final capitulation the Spanish authorities
     agree without delay to remove, or assist the American Navy
     in removing, all mines or other obstructions to navigation
     now in the harbor of Santiago and its mouth.

     6. That after final capitulation the commander of the
     Spanish forces deliver without delay a complete inventory of
     all arms and munitions of war of the Spanish forces and a
     roster of the said forces now in the above-described
     district, to the commander of the American forces.

     7. That the commander of the Spanish forces, in leaving said
     district, is authorized to carry with him all military
     archives and records pertaining to the Spanish Army now in
     said district.

     8. That all of that portion of the Spanish forces known as
     Volunteers, Movilizados and Guerillas, who wish to remain in
     the Island of Cuba are permitted to do so under parole not
     to take up arms against the United States during the
     continuance of the war between Spain and the United States,
     delivering up their arms.

     9. That the Spanish forces will march out of Santiago de
     Cuba with honors of war, depositing their arms thereafter at
     a point mutually agreed upon, to await their disposition by
     the United States Government, it being understood that the
     United States Commissioners will recommend that the Spanish
     soldier return to Spain with the arms he so bravely
     defended.

     Entered into this fifteenth day of July, eighteen hundred
     and ninety-eight, by the undersigned Commissioners, acting
     under instructions from their respecting commanding
     generals.

     (Signed)
     JOSEPH WHEELER,
     Major-General U.S. Vols.;

     H.W. LAWTON,
     Major-General U.S. Vols.;

     J.D. MILEY,
     1st Lieut. 2d Art., A.D.C. to General Shafter.

     FREDERICO ESCARIO,
     VENTURA FONTAN,
     ROBERT MASON.

     Reiterating my former sentiments, I remain,

     Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

     JOSE TORAL,
     Commander-in-Chief of the Fourth Army Corps.

     At Neutral Camp, near Santiago, Under a Flag of Truce,
     July 14, 1898.

     Recognizing the chivalry, courage and gallantry of Generals
     Linares and Toral, and of the soldiers of Spain who were
     engaged in the battles recently fought in the vicinity of
     Santiago de Cuba, as displayed in said battles, we, the
     undersigned officers of the United States army, who had the
     honor to be engaged in said battle, and are now a duly
     organized commission, treating with a like commission of
     officers of the Spanish army, for the capitulation of
     Santiago de Cuba, unanimously join in earnestly soliciting
     the proper authority to accord to these brave and chivalrous
     soldiers the privilege of returning to their country bearing
     the arms they have so bravely defended.

     First Lieut., 2d Art., A.D.C.
     J. D. MILEY.

     To His Excellency, the Commander-in-Chief of the Forces of
     the United States.

     Esteemed Sir:--At half-past 11 I received your communication
     of this date, and I am sorry to advise you that it is
     impossible for my representatives to come to the appointed
     place at midday, as you wish, as I must meet them and give
     them their instructions.

     If agreeable to you, will you defer the visit until 4 P.M.
     to-day or until 7 to-morrow morning, and in the meanwhile
     the obstacles to the entrance of the Red Cross will be
     removed from the harbor.

     I beg your Honor will make clear what force you wish me to
     retire from the railroad, as, if it is that in Aguadores, I
     would authorize the repair of the bridge at once by your
     engineers; and if it is that on the heights to the left of
     your lines, I beg you will specify with more precision.

     I have ordered those in charge of the aqueduct to proceed at
     once to repair it with the means at their command.

     Headquarters Fifth Army Corps,
     Camp, July 16, 1898.

     To His Excellency, General Jose Toral, Commanding Spanish Forces
     in Eastern Cuba.

     Sir:--I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
     Excellency's letter of this date, notifying me that the
     Government at Madrid approves your action, and requesting
     that I designate officers to arrange for and receive the
     surrender of the forces of your Excellency. This I do,
     nominating Major-General Wheeler, Major-General Lawton, and
     my aide, Lieutenant Miley. I have to request that your
     Excellency at once withdraw your troops from along the
     railway to Aguadores, and from the bluff in rear of my left;
     also that you at once direct the removal of the obstructions
     at the entrance to the harbor or assist the navy in doing
     so, as it is of the utmost importance that I at once get
     vessels loaded with food into the harbor.

     The repair of the railroad will, I am told, require a week's
     time. I shall, as I have said to your Excellency, urge my
     Government that the gallant men your Excellency has so ably
     commanded have returned to Spain with them the arms they
     have wielded. With great respect, I remain,

     Your obedient servant and friend,

     WILLIAM R. SHAFTER,
     General, Commanding.

     5.

     10. That the provisions of the foregoing instrument become
     operative immediately upon its being signed.

The following dispatch, sent by General Linares, will show how desperate were the straits into
which he had been driven and how earnestly he desired to be granted authority to avoid further
fighting by the surrender of his forces at Santiago:

     Santiago de Cuba, July 12, 1898.

     The General-in-Chief to the Secretary of War.

     Although prostrated in bed from weakness and pain, my mind
     is troubled by the situation of our suffering troops, and
     therefore I think it my duty to address myself to you, Mr.
     Secretary, and describe the true situation.

     The enemy's forces very near city; ours extended fourteen
     kilometres (14,000 yards). Our troops exhausted and sickly
     in an alarming proportion. Cannot be brought to the
     hospital--needing them in trenches. Cattle without fodder or
     hay. Fearful storm of rain, which has been pouring
     continuously for past twenty-four hours. Soldiers without
     permanent shelter. Their only food rice, and not much of
     that. They have no way of changing or drying their clothing.
     Our losses were very heavy--many chiefs and officers among
     the dead, wounded and sick. Their absence deprives the
     forces of their leaders in this very critical moment. Under
     these conditions it is impossible to open a breach on the
     enemy, because it would take a third of our men who cannot
     go out, and whom the enemy would decimate. The result would
     be a terrible disaster, without obtaining, as you desire,
     the salvation of eleven maimed battalions. To make a sortie
     protected by the division at Holguin, it is necessary to
     attack the enemy's lines simultaneously, and the forces of
     Holguin cannot come here except after many long days'
     marching. Impossible for them to transport rations.
     Unfortunately, the situation is desperate. The surrender is
     imminent, otherwise we will only gain time to prolong our
     agony. The sacrifice would be sterile, and the men
     understand this. With his lines so near us, the enemy will
     annihilate us without exposing his own, as he did yesterday,
     bombarding by land elevations without our being able to
     discover their batteries, and by sea the fleet has a perfect
     knowledge of the place, and bombards with a mathematical
     accuracy. Santiago is no Gerona, a walled city, part of the
     mother country, and defended inch by inch by her own people
     without distinction--old men and women who helped with their
     lives, moved by the holy idea of freedom, and with the hope
     of help, which they received. Here I am alone. All the
     people have fled, even those holding public offices, almost
     without exception. Only the priests remain, and they wish to
     leave the city to-day, headed by their archbishop. These
     defenders do not start now a campaign full of enthusiasm and
     energy, but for three years they have been fighting the
     climate, privations and fatigue, and now they have to
     confront this critical situation when they have no
     enthusiasm or physical strength. They have no ideals,
     because they defend the property of people who have deserted
     them and those who are the allies of the American forces.

     The honor of arms has its limit, and I appeal to the
     judgment of the Government and of the entire nation whether
     these patient troops have not repeatedly saved it since May
     18th--date of first bombardment. If it is necessary that I
     sacrifice them for reasons unknown to me, or if it is
     necessary for some one to take responsibility for the issue
     foreseen and announced by me in several telegrams, I
     willingly offer myself as a sacrifice to my country, and I
     will take charge of the command for the act of surrender, as
     my modest reputation is of small value when the reputation
     of the nation is at stake.

     (Signed) LINARES.

Thus surrendered to our forces about 23,500 Spanish troops, of whom about 11,000 had been in
the garrison of Santiago, the others having been stationed in garrisons outside of the city,
but belonging to the Division of Santiago. With them were also surrendered 100 cannon, 18 machine
guns and over 25,000 rifles. The troops were all sent back to Spain in vessels of their own
nation and flying their own flag. We had lost in battles with them before the surrender 23
officers killed and 237 men; and 100 officers and 1,332 men wounded.