The praises lavished on it gave the author greater boldness, which was quite unnecessary. He
even meditated an evasion of the law by getting it acted in a place which was not a theatre,
and tickets were actually issued for the performance in a saloon which was often used for rehearsals,
when a royal warrant[1] peremptorily forbidding such a proceeding was sent down from the palace.
A clamor was at once raised by the friends of Beaumarchais, as if "sealed letters" had never
been issued before. They talked in a loud voice of "oppression" and "tyranny;" and any one
who knew the king's disposition might have divined that such an act of vigor was sure to be
followed by one of weakness. Presently Beaumarchais changed his tone. He gave out that he had
retrenched the passages which had excited the royal disapproval, and requested that the play
might be re-examined. A new censor of high literary reputation reported to the head of the
police[2] that if one or two passages were corrected, and one or two expressions, which were
liable to be misinterpreted, were suppressed, he foresaw no danger in allowing the representation.
Beaumarchais at once promised to make the required corrections, and one of Madame de Polignac's
friends, the Count de Vaudreuil, the very nobleman with whom that lady's name was by many discreditably
connected, obtained the king's leave to perform it at his country house, that thus an opportunity
might be afforded for judging whether or not the alterations which had been made were sufficient
to render its performance innocent.

The king was assured that the passages which he had regarded as mischievous were suppressed
or divested of their sting. Marie Antoinette apparently had her suspicions; but Louis could
never long withstand repeated solicitations, and, as he had not, when Madame de Campan read
it, formed any very high opinion of its literary merits, he thought that, now that it was deprived
of its venom, it would be looked upon as heavy, and would fail accordingly. Some good judges,
such as the Marquis de Montesquieu, were of the same opinion. The actors thought differently.
"It is my belief," said a man of fashion to the witty Mademoiselle Arnould, using the technical
language of the theatre, "that your play will be 'damned.'" "Yes," she replied, "it will, fifty
nights running." But, even if Louis had heard of her prophecy, he would have disregarded it.
He gave his permission for the performance to take place, and on the 27th April, 1784, "The
Marriage of Figaro" was accordingly acted to an audience which filled the house to the very
ceiling; and which the long uncertainty as to whether it would ever be seen or not had disposed
to applaud every scene and every repartee, and even to see wit where none existed. To an impartial
critic, removed both by time and country from the agitation which had taken place, it will
probably seem that the play thus obtained a reception far beyond its merits. It was undoubtedly
what managers would call a good acting play. Its plot was complicated without being confused.
It contained many striking situations; the dialogue was lively, but there was more humor in
the surprises and discoveries than verbal wit in the repartees. Some strokes of satire were
leveled at the grasping disposition of the existing race of courtiers, whose whole trade was
represented as consisting of getting all they could, and asking for more; and others at the
tricks of modern politicians, feigning to be ignorant of what they knew; to know what they
were ignorant of; to keep secrets which had no existence; to lock the door to mend a pen; to
appear deep when they were shallow; to set spies in motion, and to intercept letters; to try
to ennoble the poverty of their means by the grandeur of their objects. The censorship, of
course, did not escape. The scene being laid in Spain, Figaro affirmed that at Madrid the liberty
of the press meant that, so long as an author spoke neither of authority, nor of public worship,
nor of politics, nor of morality, nor of men in power, nor of the opera, nor of any other exhibition,
nor of any one who was concerned in any thing, he might print what be pleased. The lawyers
were reproached with a scrupulous adherence to forms, and a connivance at needless delays,
which put money into their pockets; and the nobles, with thinking that, as long as they gave
themselves the trouble to be born, society had no right to expect from them any further useful
action. But such satire was too general, it might have been thought, to cause uneasiness, much
more to do specific injury to any particular individual, or to any company or profession. Figaro
himself is represented as saying that none but little men feared little writings.[3] And one
of the advisers whom King Louis consulted as to the possibility of any mischief arising from
the performance of the play, is said to have expressed his opinion in the form of an apothegm,
that "none but dead men were killed by jests." The author might even have argued that his keenest
satire had been poured upon those national enemies, the English, when he declared what has
been sometimes regarded as the national oath to be the pith and marrow of the English language,
the open sesame to English society, the key to unlock the English heart, and to obtain the
judicious swearer all that he could desire.[4]

And an English writer, with English notions of the liberty of the press, would hardly have
thought it worth while to notice such an affair at all, did he not feel bound to submit his
judgment to that of the French themselves. And if their view be correct, almost every institution
in France must have been a dead man past all hopes of recovery, since the French historical
writers, to whatever party they belong, are unanimous in declaring that it was from this play
that many of the oldest institutions in the country received their death-blow, and that Beaumarchais
was at once the herald and the pioneer of the approaching Revolution.

Paris had scarcely cooled down after this excitement, when its attention was more agreeably
attracted by the arrival of a king, Gustavus III. of Sweden. He had paid a visit to France
in 1771, which had been cut short by the sudden death of his father, necessitating his immediate
return to his own country to take possession of his throne; but the brief acquaintance which
Marie Antoinette had then made with him had inspired her with a great admiration of his chivalrous
character; and in the preceding year, hearing that he was contemplating a tour in Southern
Europe, she had written to him to express a hope that he would repeat his visit to Versailles,
promising him "such a reception as was due to an ancient ally of France;[5]" and adding that
"she should personally have great pleasure in testifying to him how greatly she valued his
friendship."

Her mention of the ancient alliance between the two countries, which, indeed, had subsisted
ever since the days of Francis I., was very welcome to Gustavus, since the object of his journey
was purely political, and he desired to negotiate a fresh treaty. But those matters he, of
course, arranged with the ministers. The queen was only concerned in the entertainments due
from royal hosts to so distinguished a guest. Most of them were of the ordinary character,
there being a sort of established routine of festivity for such occasions. And it may be taken
as a proof that the court had abated somewhat of its alarm at Beaumarchais's play that "The
Marriage of Figaro" was allowed to be acted on one of the king's visits to the theatre. She
also gave him an entertainment of more than usual splendor at the Trianon, at which all the
ladies present, and the invitations were very numerous, were required to be dressed in white,
while all the walks and shrubberies of the garden were illuminated, so that the whole scene
presented a spectacle which he described in one of his letters as "a complete fairy-land; a
sight worthy of the Elysian Fields themselves.[6]" But, as usual, the queen herself was the
chief ornament of the whole, as she moved graciously among her guests, laying aside the character
of queen to assume that of the cordial hostess; and not even taking her place at the banquet,
but devoting herself wholly to the pleasurable duty of doing honor to her guests.

One of the displays was of a novel character, from which its inventors and patrons expected
scientific results of importance, which, though nearly a century has since elapsed, have not
yet been realized. In the preceding year, Montgolfier had for the first time sent up a balloon,
and the new invention was now exhibited in the Court of Versailles: the queen allowed the balloon
to be called by her name; and, to the great admiration of Gustavus, who had a decided taste
for matters which were in any way connected with practical science, the "Marie Antoinette"
made a successful voyage to Chantilly. The date of another invention, if, indeed, it deserves
so respectable a title, is also fixed by this royal visit. Mesmer had recently begun to astonish
or bewilder the Parisians with his theory of animal magnetism; and Gustavus spent some time
in discussing the question with him, and seems for a moment to have flattered himself that
he comprehended his principles. But the only durable result which arose from his stay in France
was the sincere regard and esteem which he and the queen mutually conceived for each other.
They established a correspondence, in which Marie Antoinette repeatedly showed her eagerness
to gratify his wishes and to attend to his recommendations; and when, at a later period, unexpected
troubles fell on her and her husband, there was no one whom their troubles inspired with greater
eagerness to serve them than Gustavus, whose last projects, before he fell by the hand of an
assassin, were directed to their deliverance from the dangers which, though neither he nor
they were as yet fully alive to their magnitude, were on the point of overwhelming them.

Marie Antoinette had long since completed her gardens at the Trianon, but the gradual change
in the arrangements of the court had made a number of alterations requisite at Versailles,
with which the difficulty of finding money rendered it desirable to proceed slowly. It was
reckoned that it would be necessary to give up the greater part of the palace to workmen for
ten years; and as the other palaces which the king possessed in the neighborhood of Paris were
hardly suited for the permanent residence of the court, the queen proposed to her husband to
obtain St. Cloud from the Duc d'Orléans, giving him in exchange La Muette, the Castle of Choisy,
and a small adjacent forest. Such an arrangement would have produced a considerable saving
by the reduction of the establishments kept up at those places, at which the court only spent
a few days in each year. And as the duke was disposed to think that he should be a gainer by
the exchange, it is not very easy to explain how it was that the original project was given
up, and that St. Cloud was eventually sold to the crown for a sum of money, Choisy and La Muette
being also retained.

St. Cloud was bought; and Marie Antoinette, still eager to prevent her own acquisition from
being too costly, proposed to the king that it should he bought in her name, and called her
property; since an establishment for her would naturally lie framed on a more moderate scale
than that of any palace belonging to the king, which was held always to require the appointment
of a governor and deputy-governors, with a corresponding staff of underlings, while she should
only require a porter at the outer gate. The advantage of such a plan was so obvious that it
was at once adopted. The porters and servants wore the queen's livery; and all notices of the
regulations to be observed were signed "In the queen's name.[1]" Yet so busy were her enemies
at this time, that even this simple arrangement, devised solely for the benefit of the people
who were intimately concerned in every thing that tended to diminish the royal expenditure,
gave rise to numberless cavils. Some affirmed that the issue of such notices in the name of
the queen instead of in that of the king was an infringement on his authority. One most able
and influential counselor of the Parliament, Duval d'Esprémesnil, who in more than one discussion
in subsequent years showed that in general he fully appreciated the principles of constitutional
government, but who at this time seems to have been animated by no other feeling than that
of hatred for the existing ministers, even went the length of affirming that there was "something
not only impolitic but immoral in the idea of any palace belonging to a queen of France.[2]"
But when the arrangements had once been made, Marie Antoinette not unnaturally thought her
honor concerned in not abandoning it in deference to clamor so absurd, as well as so disrespectful
to herself; and St. Cloud, to which she had always been partial, continued hers, and for the
next five years divided her attention with the Trianon.

But though she herself disregarded all such attacks with the calm dignity which belonged to
her character, her friends were not free from serious apprehensions as to the power of persistent
detraction and calumny. It was one of the penalties which the nation had to pay for the infamies
which had stained the crown during the last three centuries, that the people had learned to
think that nothing was too bad to say and to believe of their kings; and Marie Antoinette seemed
as yet a fairer mark than usual for slanderous attack, because her position was weaker than
that of a King.[3] It depended on the life of her husband and of a single son, who was already
beginning to show signs of weakness of constitution. It was therefore with exceeding satisfaction
that in the autumn of 1784 her friends learned that she was again about to become a mother.
They prayed with inexpressible anxiety that the expected child should prove a son; and on the
27th of March, 1785, their prayers were granted. A son was born, whom his delighted father
at once took in his arms, calling him "his little Norman," and, saying "that the name alone
would bring him happiness," created Duke of Normandy. No prophecy was ever so sadly falsified;
no king's son had ever so miserable a lot; but no forebodings of evil as yet disturbed his
parents. Their delight was fully shared by the body of the people; for the cabals against the
queen were as yet confined to the immediate precincts of the court, and had not descended to
infect the middle classes. It was with difficulty when, after her confinement, she paid her
visit to Paris to return thanks at Notre Dame and St. Geneviève, that the citizens could he
prevented from unharnessing her horses and dragging her coach in triumph through the streets.[4]
And their exultation was fully shared by the better-intentioned class of courtiers, and by
all Marie Antoinette's real friends, who felt assured that the birth of this second son had
given her the security which had hitherto been wanting to her position.

