CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS LONDON:

BENTLEY HOUSE NEW YORK. TORONTO, BOMBAY CALCUTTA. MADRAS:

MACMILLAN TOKYO: MARUZEN COMPANY LTD

All rights reserved

Copyrighted in the United States of America by G. P. Putnam's Sons

All rights reserved

On The Art of Reading

By

Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch

CAMBRIDGE

AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS  1939

TO H. F. S. and H. M. C.

First edition 1920 reprinted 1920,1921 Pocket edition 1924 reprinted 1925, 1928, 1933, 1939

PREFACE

The following twelve lectures have this much in common with a previous twelve published in
1916 under the title "On the Art of Writing"--they form no compact treatise but present their
central idea as I was compelled at the time to enforce it, amid the dust of skirmishing with
opponents and with practical difficulties.

They cover--and to some extent, by reflection, chronicle--a period during which a few friends,
who had an idea and believed in it, were fighting to establish the present English Tripos at
Cambridge. In the end we carried our proposals without a vote: but the opposition was stiff
for a while; and I feared, on starting to read over these pages for press, that they might
be too occasional and disputatious. I am happy to think that, on the whole, they are not; and
that the reader, though he may wonder at its discursiveness, will find the argument pretty
free from polemic. Any one who has inherited a library of 17th century theology will agree
with me that, of all dust, the ashes of dead controversies afford the driest.

And after all, and though it be well worth while to strive that the study of English (of our
own literature, and of the art of using our own language, in speech or in writing, to the best
purpose) shall take an honourable place among the Schools of a great University, that the other
fair sisters of learning shall

     Ope for thee their queenly circle ...

it is not in our Universities that the general redemption of English will be won; nor need
a mistake here or there, at Oxford or Cambridge or London, prove fatal. We make our discoveries
through our mistakes: we watch one another's success: and where there is freedom to experiment
there is hope to improve. A youth who can command means to enter a University can usually command
some range in choosing which University it shall be. If Cambridge cannot supply what he wants,
or if our standard of training be low in comparison with that of Oxford, or of London or of
Manchester, the pressure of neglect will soon recall us to our senses.

The real battle for English lies in our Elementary Schools, and in the training of our Elementary
Teachers. It is there that the foundations of a sound national teaching in English will have
to be laid, as it is there that a wrong trend will lead to incurable issues. For the poor child
has no choice of Schools, and the elementary teacher, whatever his individual gifts, will work
under a yoke imposed upon him by Whitehall. I devoutly trust that Whitehall will make the yoke
easy and adaptable while insisting that the chariot must be drawn.

I foresee, then, these lectures condemned as the utterances of a man who, occupying a Chair,
has contrived to fall betwixt two stools. My thoughts have too often strayed from my audience
in a University theatre away to remote rural class-rooms where the hungry sheep look up and
are not fed; to piteous groups of urchins standing at attention and chanting "The Wreck of
the Hesperus" in unison. Yet to these, being tied to the place and the occasion, I have brought
no real help.

A man has to perform his task as it comes. But I must say this in conclusion. Could I wipe
these lectures out and re-write them in hope to benefit my countrymen in general, I should
begin and end upon the text to be found in the twelfth and last--that a liberal education is
not an appendage to be purchased by a few: that Humanism is, rather, a quality which can, and
should, condition all our teaching; which can, and should, be impressed as a character upon
it all, from a poor child's first lesson in reading up to a tutor's last word to his pupil
on the eve of a Tripos.

ARTHUR QUILLER-COUCH July 7, 1920.

CONTENTS

LECTURE

I        INTRODUCTORY II       APPREHENSION VERSUS COMPREHENSION III      CHILDREN'S READING
(I) IV            "        "      (II) V        ON READING FOR EXAMINATIONS VI       ON A SCHOOL
OF ENGLISH VII      THE VALUE OF GREEK AND LATIN IN ENGLISH LITERATURE VIII     ON READING
THE BIBLE   (I) IX             "          "     (II) X              "          "     (III)
XI       OF SELECTION XI       ON THE USE OF MASTERPIECES

INDEX

LECTURE I

INTRODUCTORY

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1916

I

In the third book of the "Ethics", and in the second chapter, Aristotle, dealing with certain
actions which, though bad in themselves, admit of pity and forgiveness because they were committed
involuntarily, through ignorance, instances 'the man who did not know a subject was forbidden,
like Aeschylus with the Mysteries,' and 'the man who only meant to show how it worked, like
the fellow who let off the catapult' ([Greek: e deixai Boulemos apheinai, os o ton katapelten]).

I feel comfortably sure, Gentlemen, that in a previous course of lectures "On the Art of Writing",
unlike Aeschylus, I divulged no mysteries: but I am troubled with speculations over that man
and the catapult, because I really was trying to tell you how the thing worked; and Aristotle,
with a reticence which (as Horace afterwards noted) may lend itself to obscurity, tells us
neither what happened to that exponent of ballistics, nor to the engine itself, nor to the
other person. My discharge, such as it was, at any rate provoked another Professor (emeritus,
learned, sagacious, venerable) to retort that the true business of a Chair such as this is
to instruct young men how to read rather than how to write. Well, be it so. I accept the challenge.

I propose in this and some ensuing lectures to talk of the Art and Practice of Reading, particularly
as applied to English Literature: to discuss on what ground and through what faculties an Author
and his Reader meet: to enquire if, or to what extent, Reading of the best Literature can be
taught; and supposing it to be taught, if or to what extent it can be examined upon; with maybe
an interlude or two, to beguile the way.

II

The first thing, then, to be noted about the reading of English (with which alone I am concerned)
is that for Englishmen it has been made, by Act of Parliament, compulsory.

The next thing to be noted is that in our schools and Colleges and Universities it has been
made, by Statute or in practice, all but impossible.

The third step is obvious--to reconcile what we cannot do with what we must: and to that aim
I shall, under your patience, direct this and the following lecture. I shall be relieved at
all events, and from the outset, of the doubt by which many a Professor, here and elsewhere,
has been haunted: I mean the doubt whether there really is such a subject as that of which
he proposes to treat. Anything that requires so much human ingenuity as reading English in
an English University must be an art.

III

But I shall be met, of course, by the question 'How is the reading of English made impossible
at Cambridge?' and I pause here, on the edge of my subject, to clear away that doubt.

It is no fault of the University.

The late Philip Gilbert Hamerton, whom some remember as an etcher, wrote a book which he entitled
(as I think, too magniloquently) "The Intellectual Life." He cast it in the form of letters--'To
an Author who kept very Irregular Hours,' 'To a Young Etonian who thought of becoming a Cotton-spinner,'
'To a Young Gentleman who had firmly resolved never to wear anything but a Grey Coat' (but
Mr Hamerton couldn't quite have meant that). 'To a Lady of High Culture who found it difficult
to associate with persons of her Own Sex,' 'To a Young Gentleman of Intellectual Tastes, who,
without having as yet any Particular Lady in View, had expressed, in a General Way, his Determination
to get Married: The volume is well worth reading. In the first letter of all, addressed 'To
a Young Man of Letters who worked Excessively,' Mr Hamerton fishes up from his memory, for
admonishment, this salutary instance:

  A tradesman, whose business affords an excellent outlet for
  energetic bodily activity, told me that having attempted, in
  addition to his ordinary work, to acquire a foreign language
  which seemed likely to be useful to him, he had been obliged to
  abandon it on account of alarming cerebral symptoms. This man
  has immense vigour and energy, but the digestive functions, in
  this instance, are sluggish. However, when he abandoned study,
  the cerebral inconveniences disappeared, and have never
  returned since.

IV

Now we all know, and understand, and like that man: for the simple reason that he is every
one of us.

You or I (say) have to take the Modern Languages Tripos, Section A (English), in 1917[1]. First
of all (and rightly) it is demanded of us that we show an acquaintance, and something more
than a bowing acquaintance, with Shakespeare. Very well; but next we have to write a paper
and answer questions on the outlines of English Literature from 1350 to 1832--almost 500 years--,
and next to write a paper and show particular knowledge of English Literature between 1700
and 1785--eighty-five years.

Now if you were to qualify yourself for all this as a scholar should, and in two years, you
would certainly deserve to be addressed by Mr Hamerton as 'A Young Man of Letters who worked
Excessively'; and to work excessively is not good for anyone. Yet, on the other hand, you are
precluded from using, for your 'cerebral inconveniences,' the heroic remedy exhibited by Mr
Hamerton's enterprising tradesman, since on that method you would not attain to the main object
of your laudable ambition, a Cambridge degree.

But the matter is very much worse than your Statute makes it out. Take one of the papers in
which some actual acquaintance with Literature is required the Special Period from 1700 to
1785; then turn to your "Cambridge History of English Literature", and you will find that the
mere bibliography of those eighty-five years occupies something like five or six hundred pages--five
or six hundred pages of titles and authors in simple enumeration! The brain reels; it already
suffers 'cerebral inconveniences.' But stretch the list back to Chaucer, back through Chaucer
to those alleged prose writings in the Wessex dialect, then forward from 1785 to Wordsworth,
to Byron, to Dickens, Carlyle, Tennyson, Browning, Meredith, even to this year in which literature
still lives and engenders; and the brain, if not too giddy indeed, stands as Satan stood on
the brink of Chaos--

     Pondering his voyage; for no narrow frith
     He had to cross--

and sees itself, with him, now plumbing a vast vacuity, and anon nigh-foundered, 'treading
the crude consistence.'

The whole business of reading English Literature in two years, to know it in any reputable
sense of the word--let alone your learning to write English--is, in short, impossible. And
the framers of the Statute, recognising this, have very sensibly compromised by setting you
to work on such things as 'the Outlines of English Literature'; which are not Literature at
all but are only what some fellow has to say about it, hastily summarising his estimates of
many works, of which on a generous computation he has probably read one-fifth; and by examining
you on (what was it all?) 'language, metre, literary history and literary criticism,' which
again are not Literature, or at least (as a Greek would say in his idiom) escape their own
notice being Literature. For English Literature, as I take it, is that which sundry men and
women have written memorably in English about Life. And so I come to my subject--the art of
reading that, which is Literature.

V

I shall take leave to leap into it over another man's back, or, rather over two men's backs.
No doubt it has happened to many of you to pick up in a happy moment some book or pamphlet
or copy of verse which just says the word you have unconsciously been listening for, almost
craving to speak for yourself, and so sends you off hot-foot on the trail. And if you have
had that experience, it may also have happened to you that, after ranging, you returned on
the track 'like faithful hound returning,' in gratitude, or to refresh the scent; and that,
picking up the book again, you found it no such wonderful book after all, or that some of the
magic had faded by process of the change in yourself which itself had originated. But the word
was spoken.

Such a book--pamphlet I may call it, so small it was--fell into my hands some ten years ago;
"The Aims of Literary Study"--no very attractive title--by Dr Corson, a distinguished American
Professor (and let me say that, for something more than ten--say for twenty--years much of
the most thoughtful as well as the most thorough work upon English comes to us from America).
I find, as I handle again the small duodecimo volume, that my own thoughts have taken me a
little wide, perhaps a little astray, from its suggestions. But for loyalty's sake I shall
start just where Dr Corson started, with a passage from Browning's, "A Death in the Desert,"
supposed (you will remember)--

     Supposed of Pamphylax the Antiochene

narrating the death of St John the Evangelist, John of Patmos; the narrative interrupted by
this gloss:

  [This is the doctrine he was wont to teach,
  How divers persons witness in each man,
  Three souls which make up one soul: first, to wit,
  A soul of each and all the bodily parts,
  Seated therein, which works, and is What Does,
  And has the use of earth, and ends the man
  Downward: but, tending upward for advice,
  Grows into, and again is grown into
  By the next soul, which, seated in the brain,
  Useth the first with its collected use,
  And feeleth, thinketh, willeth,--is What Knows:
  Which, duly tending upward in its turn,
  Grows into, and again is grown into
  By the last soul, that uses both the first,
  Subsisting whether they assist or no,
  And, constituting man's self, is What Is--
  And leans upon the former

(Mark the word, Gentlemen; 'leans upon the former'--leaning back, as it were felt by him, on
this very man who had leaned on Christ's bosom, being loved)

  And leans upon the former, makes it play,
  As that played off the first: and, tending up,
  Holds, is upheld by, God, and ends the man
  Upward in that dread point of intercourse,
  Nor needs a place, for it returns to Him.
  What Does, What Knows, What Is; three souls, one man.
  I give the glossa of Theotypas.]

What Does, What Knows, What Is--there is no mistaking what Browning means, nor in what degrees
of hierarchy he places this, that, and the other.... Does it not strike you how curiously men
to-day, with their minds perverted by hate, are inverting that order?--all the highest value
set on What Does--What Knows suddenly seen to be of importance, but only as important in feeding
the guns, perfecting explosives, collaring trade--all in the service of What Does, of 'Get
on or Get Out,' of 'Efficiency'; no one stopping to think that 'Efficiency' is--must be--a
relative term! Efficient for what?--for What Does, What Knows or perchance, after all, for
What Is? No! banish the humanities and throw everybody into practical science: not into that
study of natural science, which can never conflict with the 'humanities' since it seeks discovery
for the pure sake of truth, or charitably to alleviate man's lot--

     Sweetly, rather, to ease, loose and bind
     As need requires, this frail fallen humankind ...

--but to invent what will be commercially serviceable in besting your neighbour, or in gassing
him, or in slaughtering him neatly and wholesale. But still the whisper (not ridiculous in
its day) will assert itself, that What Is comes first, holding and upheld by God; still through
the market clamour for a 'Business Government' will persist the voice of Plato murmuring that,
after all, the best form of government is government by good men: and the voice of some small
man faintly protesting 'But I don't want to be governed by business men; because I know them
and, without asking much of life, I have a hankering to die with a shirt on my back.'

VI

But let us postpone What Is for a moment, and deal with What Does and What Knows. They too,
of course, have had their oppositions, and the very meaning of a University such as Cambridge--its
fons, its origo, its [Greek: to ti en einai]-- was to assert What Knows against What Does in
a medieval world pranced over by men-at-arms, Normans, English, Burgundians, Scots. Ancillary
to Theology, which then had a meaning vastly different from its meaning to-day, the University
tended as portress of the gate of knowledge--of such knowledge as the Church required, encouraged,
or permitted--and kept the flag of intellectual life, as I may put it, flying above that gate
and over the passing throngs of 'doers' and mailed-fisters. The University was a Seat of Learning:
the Colleges, as they sprang up, were Houses of Learning.

But note this, which in their origin and still in the frame of their constitution differentiates
Oxford and Cambridge from all their ancient sisters and rivals. These two (and no third, I
believe, in Europe) were corporations of Teachers, existing for Teachers, governed by Teachers.
In a Scottish University the students by vote choose their Rector: but here or at Oxford no
undergraduate, no Bachelor, counts at all in the government, both remaining alike in statu
pupillari until qualified as Masters-- Magistri. Mark the word, and mark also the title of
one who obtained what in those days would be the highest of degrees (but yet gave him no voting
strength above a Master). He was a Professor-'Sanctae Theologiae Professor.' To this day every
country clergyman who comes up to Cambridge to record his non-placet, does so by virtue of
his capacity to teach what he learned here--in theory, that is. Scholars were included in College
foundations on a sort of pupil-teacher-supply system: living in rooms with the lordly masters,
and valeting them for the privilege of 'reading with' them. We keep to this day the pleasant
old form of words. Now for various reasons--one of which, because it is closely germane to
my subject, I shall particularly examine--Oxford and Cambridge, while conserving almost intact
their medieval frame of government, with a hundred other survivals which Time but makes, through
endurance, more endearing, have, insensibly as it were, and across (it must be confessed) intervals
of sloth and gross dereliction of duty, added a new function to the cultivation of learning--that
of furnishing out of youth a succession of men capable of fulfilling high offices in Church
and State.

Some may regret this. I think many of us must regret that a deeper tincture of learning is
not required of the average pass-man, or injected into him perforce. But speaking roughly about
fact, I should say that while we elders up here are required-- nay, presumed to know certain
things, we aim that our young men shall be of a certain kind; and I see no cause to disown
a sentence in the very first lecture I had the honour of reading before you--'The man we are
proud to send forth from our Schools will be remarkable less for something he can take out
of his wallet and exhibit for knowledge, than for being something, and that something recognisable
for a man of unmistakable intellectual breeding, whose trained judgment we can trust to choose
the better and reject the worse.'

The reasons which have led our older Universities to deflect their functions (whether for good
or ill) so far from their first purpose are complicated if not many. Once admit young men in
large numbers, and youth (I call any Dean or Tutor to witness) must be compromised with; will
construe the laws of its seniors in its own way, now and then breaking them; and will inevitably
end, by getting something of its own way.. The growth of gymnastic, the insensible gravitation
of the elderly towards Fenner's--there to snatch a fearful joy and explain that the walk was
good for them; the Union and other debating societies; College rivalries; the festivities of
May Week; the invasion of women students: all these may have helped. But I must dwell discreetly
on one compelling and obvious cause--the increased and increasing unwieldiness of Knowledge.
And that is the main trouble, as I guess.

VII

Let us look it fair in the face: because it is the main practical difficulty with which I propose
that, in succeeding lectures, we grapple. Against Knowledge I have, as the light cynic observed
of a certain lady's past, only one serious objection--that there is so much of it. There is
indeed so much of it that if with the best will in the world you devoted yourself to it as
a mere scholar, you could not possibly digest its accumulated and still accumulating stores.
As Sir Thomas Elyot wrote in the 16th century (using, you will observe, the very word of Mr
Hamerton's energetic but fed-up tradesman), 'Inconveniences always doe happen by ingurgitation
and excessive feedings.' An old schoolmaster and a poet--Mr James Rhoades, late of Sherborne--
comments in words which I will quote, being unable to better them:

  This is no less true of the mind than of the body. I do not
  know that a well-informed man, as such, is more worthy of
  regard than a well-fed one. The brain, indeed, is a nobler
  organ than the stomach, but on that very account is the less
  to be excused for indulging in repletion. The temptation, I
  confess, is greater, because for the brain the banquet stands
  ever spread before our eyes, and is, unhappily, as
  indestructible as the widow's meal and oil.

  Only think what would become of us if the physical food,
  by which our bodies subsist, instead of being consumed by
  the eater, was passed on intact by every generation to the
  next, with the superadded hoards of all the ages, the earth's
  productive power meanwhile increasing year by year
  beneath the unflagging hand of Science, till, as Comus
  says, she

    would be quite surcharged with her own weight
    And strangled with her waste fertility.

  Should we rather not pull down our barns, and build
  smaller, and make bonfires of what they would not hold?
  And yet, with regard to Knowledge, the very opposite of
  this is what we do. We store the whole religiously, and that
  though not twice alone, as with the bees in Virgil, but
  scores of times in every year, is the teeming produce
  gathered in. And then we put a fearful pressure on
  ourselves and others to gorge of it as much as ever we can
  hold.

Facit indignatio versus. My author, gathering heat, puts it somewhat dithyrambically: but there
you have it, Gentlemen.

If you crave for Knowledge, the banquet of Knowledge grows and groans on the board until the
finer appetite sickens. If, still putting all your trust in Knowledge, you try to dodge the
difficulty by specialising, you produce a brain bulging out inordinately on one side, on the
other cut flat down and mostly paralytic at that: and in short so long as I hold that the Creator
has an idea, of a man, so long shall I be sure that no uneven specialist realises it. The real
tragedy of the Library at Alexandria was not that the incendiaries burned immensely, but that
they had neither the leisure nor the taste to discriminate.

VIII

The old schoolmaster whom I quoted just now goes on:

  I believe, if the truth were known, men would be
  astonished at the small amount of learning with which a
  high degree of culture is compatible. In a moment of enthusiasm
  I ventured once to tell my 'English set' that if they could
  really master the ninth book of "Paradise Lost", so as to rise
  to the height of its great argument and incorporate all its
  beauties in themselves, they would at one blow, by virtue
  of that alone, become highly cultivated men.... More and
  more various learning might raise them to the same height
  by different paths, but could hardly raise them higher.

Here let me interpose and quote the last three lines of that Book--three lines only; simple,
unornamented, but for every man and every woman who have dwelt together since our first parents,
in mere statement how wise!

     Thus they in mutual accusation spent
     The fruitless hours, but neither self-condemning;
     And of their vain contest appear'd no end.

A parent afterwards told me (my schoolmaster adds) that his son went home and so buried himself
in the book that food and sleep that day had no attraction for him. Next morning, I need hardly
say, the difference in his appearance was remarkable: he had outgrown all his intellectual clothes.

The end of this story strikes me, I confess, as rapid, and may be compared with that of the
growth of Delian Apollo in the Homeric hymn; but we may agree that, in reading, it is not quantity
so much that tells, as quality and thoroughness of digestion.

IX

What Does--What Knows--What Is....

I am not likely to depreciate to you the value of What Does,
after spending my first twelve lectures up here, on the art and
practice of Writing, encouraging you to do this thing which I
daily delight in trying to do: as God forbid that anyone should
hint a slightening word of what our sons and brothers are doing
just now, and doing for us! But Peace being the normal condition
of man's activity, I look around me for a vindication of what is
noblest in What Does and am content with a passage from George
Eliot's poem "Stradivarius", the gist of which is that God
himself might conceivably make better fiddles than Stradivari's,
but by no means certainly; since, as a fact, God orders his best
fiddles of Stradivari. Thou wilt go
  To purgatory none the less.'
     But he:
  ''Twere purgatory here to make them ill;
  And for my fame--when any master holds
  'Twixt chin and hand a violin of mine,
  He will be glad that Stradivari lived,
  Made violins, and made them of the best.
  The masters only know whose work is good:
  They will choose mine, and while God gives them skill
  I give them instruments to play upon,
  God choosing me to help Him.'
     'What! Were God
  At fault for violins, thou absent?'
     'Yes;
  He were at fault for Stradivari's work.'
  'Why, many hold Giuseppe's
  violins As good as thine.'
     'May be: they are different.
  His quality declines: he spoils his hand
  With over-drinking. But were his the best,
  He could not work for two.
  I say, not God Himself can make man's best
  Without best men to help him....
     'Tis God gives skill,
  But not without men's hands: He could not make
  Antonio Stradivari's violins
  Without Antonio. Get thee to thy easel.'

So much then for What Does: I do not depreciate it.

X

Neither do I depreciate--in Cambridge, save the mark!--What Knows. All knowledge is venerable;
and I suppose you will find the last vindication of the scholar's life at its baldest in Browning's
"A Grammarian's Funeral":

  Others mistrust and say, 'But time escapes:
     Live now or never!'
  He said, 'What's time? Leave Now for dog and apes!
  Well, here's the platform, here's the proper place:
     Hail to your purlieus,
  All ye highfliers of the feathered race,
     Swallows and curlews!

Nevertheless Knowledge is not, cannot be, everything; and indeed, as a matter of experience,
cannot even be counted upon to educate. Some of us have known men of extreme learning who yet
are, some of them, uncouth in conduct, others violent and overbearing in converse, others unfair
in controversy, others even unscrupulous in action--men of whom the sophist Thrasymachus in
Plato's "Republic" may stand for the general type. Nay, some of us will subscribe with the
old schoolmaster whom I will quote again, when he writes:

  To myself personally, as an exception to the rule that
  opposites attract, a very well-informed person is an object of
  terror. His mind seems to be so full of facts that you cannot,
  as it were, see the wood for the trees; there is no room for
  perspective, no lawns and glades for pleasure and repose, no
  vistas through which to view some towering hill or elevated
  temple; everything in that crowded space seems of the same
  value: he speaks with no more awe of "King Lear" than of the
  last Cobden prize essay; he has swallowed them both with the
  same ease, and got the facts safe in his pouch; but he has no
  time to ruminate because he must still be swallowing; nor does
  he seem to know what even Macbeth, with Banquo's murderers
  then at work, found leisure to remember--that good digestion
  must wait on appetite, if health is to follow both:

Now that may be put a trifle too vivaciously, but the moral is true. Bacon tells us that reading
maketh a full man. Yes, and too much of it makes him too full. The two words of the Greek upon
knowledge remain true, that the last triumph of Knowledge is Know Thyself. So Don Quixote repeats
it to Sancho Panza, counselling him how to govern his Island:

  First, O son, thou hast to fear God, for in fearing Him is
  wisdom, and being wise thou canst not err.

  But secondly thou hast to set thine eyes on what thou art,
  endeavouring to know thyself--which is the most difficult
  knowledge that can be conceived.

But to know oneself is to know that which alone can know What Is. So the hierarchy runs up.

XI

What Does, What Knows, What Is.... I have happily left myself no time to-day to speak of What
Is: happily, because I would not have you even approach it towards the end of an hour when
your attention must be languishing. But I leave you with two promises, and with two sayings
from which as this lecture took its start its successors will proceed.

The first promise is, that What Is, being the spiritual element in man, is the highest object
of his study.

The second promise is that, nine-tenths of what is worthy to be called Literature being concerned
with this spiritual element, for that it should be studied, from firstly up to ninthly, before
anything else.

And my two quotations are for you to ponder:

(1) This, first:

  That all spirit is mutually attractive, as all matter is
  mutually attractive, is an ultimate fact beyond which we cannot
  go.... Spirit to spirit--as in water face answereth to face, so
  the heart of man to man.

(2) And this other, from the writings of an obscure Welsh clergyman of the 17th century:

  You will never enjoy the world aright till the sea itself
  floweth in your veins, till you are clothed with the heavens
  and crowned with the stars.

[Footnote 1: The reader will kindly turn back to p.1, and observe the date at the head of this
lecture. At that time I was engaged against a system of English teaching which I believed to
be thoroughly bad. That system has since given place to another, which I am prepared to defend
as a better.]

LECTURE II

APPREHENSION VERSUS COMPREHENSION

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1916

I

Let us attempt to-day, Gentlemen, picking up the scent where we left at the conclusion of my
first lecture, to hunt the Art of Reading (as I shall call it), a little further on the line
of common-sense; then to cast back and chase on a line somewhat more philosophical. If these
lines run wide and refuse to unite, we shall have made a false cast: if they converge and meet,
we shall have caught our hare and may proceed, in subsequent lectures, to cook him.

Well, the line of common-sense has brought us to this point-- that, man and this planet being
such as they are, for a man to read all the books existent on it is impossible; and, if possible,
would be in the highest degree undesirable. Let us, for example, go back quite beyond the invention
of printing and try to imagine a man who had read all the rolls destroyed in the Library of
Alexandria by successive burnings. (Some reckon the number of these MSS at 700,000.) Suppose,
further, this man to be gifted with a memory retentive as Lord Macaulay's. Suppose lastly that
we go to such a man and beg him to repeat to us some chosen one of the fifty or seventy lost,
or partially lost, plays of Euripides. It is incredible that he could gratify us.

There was, as I have said, a great burning at Alexandria in 47 B.C., when Caesar set the fleet
in the harbour on fire to prevent its falling into the hands of the Egyptians. The flames spread,
and the great library stood but 400 yards from the quayside, with warehouses full of books
yet closer. The last great burning was perpetrated in A.D. 642. Gibbon quotes the famous sentence
of Omar, the great Mohammedan who gave the order: 'If these writings of the Greeks agree with
the book of God, they are useless and need not be preserved; if they disagree, they are pernicious
and ought to be destroyed,' and goes on:

  The sentence was executed with blind obedience; the
  volumes of paper or parchment were distributed to the four
  thousand baths of the city; and such was their incredible
  multitude that six months were barely sufficient for the
  consumption of this precious fuel.... The tale has been
  repeatedly transcribed; and every scholar, with pious
  indignation, has deplored the irreparable shipwreck of the
  learning, the arts, and the genius, of antiquity. For my own
  part, I am strongly tempted to deny both the fact and the
  consequences.

Of the consequence he writes:

  Perhaps the church and seat of the patriarchs might be
  enriched with a repository of books: but, if the ponderous
  mass of Arian and Monophysite controversy were indeed
  consumed in the public baths, a philosopher may allow, with
  a smile, that it was ultimately devoted to the benefit of
  mankind. I sincerely regret the more valuable libraries,
  which have been involved in the ruin of the Roman empire;
  but, when I seriously compute the lapse of ages, the waste of
  ignorance, and the calamities of war, our treasures, rather
  than our losses, are the object of my surprise. Many curious
  and interesting facts are buried in oblivion: the three great
  historians of Rome have been transmitted to our hands in a
  mutilated state, and we are deprived of many pleasing
  compositions of the lyric, iambic, and dramatic poetry of the
  Greeks. Yet we should gratefully remember that the
  mischances of time and accident have spared the classic
  works to which the suffrage of antiquity had adjudged the
  first place of genius and glory; the teachers of ancient
  knowledge, who are still extant, had perused and compared
  the writings of their predecessors; nor can it fairly be
  presumed that any important truth, any useful discovery in
  art or nature, has been snatched away from the curiosity of
  modern ages.

I certainly do not ask you to subscribe to all that. Like the stranger in the temple of the
sea-god, invited to admire the many votive garments of those preserved out of shipwreck, I
ask 'at ubi sunt vestimenta eorum qui post vota nuncupata perierunt?'-- or in other words 'Where
are the trousers of the drowned?' 'What about the "Sthenoboea" of Euripides, the "Revellers"
of Ameipsias-- to which, as a matter of simple fact, what you call the suffrage of antiquity
did adjudge the first prize, above Aristophanes' best?'

But of course he is equally right to this extent, that the fire consumed a vast deal of rubbish:
solid tons more than any man could swallow,--let be, digest--'read, mark, learn and inwardly
digest.' And that was in A.D. 642, whereas we have arrived at 1916. Where would our voracious
Alexandrian be to-day, with all the literature of the Middle Ages added to his feast and on
top of that all the printed books of 450 years? 'Reading,' says Bacon, 'maketh a Full Man.'
Yes, indeed!

Now I am glad that sentence of Bacon falls pat here, because it gives me, turning to his famous
Essay "Of Studies", the reinforcement of his great name for the very argument which I am directing
against the fallacy of those teachers who would have you use 'manuals' as anything else than
guides to your own reading or perspectives in which the authors are set out in the comparative
eminence by which they claim priority of study or indicate the proportions of a literary period.
Some of these manuals are written by men of knowledge so encyclopaedic that (if it go with
critical judgment) for these purposes they may be trusted. But to require you, at your stage
of reading, to have even the minor names by heart is a perversity of folly. For later studies
it seems to me a more pardonable mistake, but yet a mistake, to hope that by the employ of
separate specialists you can get even in 15 or 20 volumes a perspective, a proportionate description,
of what English Literature really is. But worst of all is that Examiner, who--aware that you
must please him, to get a good degree, and being just as straight and industrious as anyone
else--assumes that in two years you have become expert in knowledge that beats a lifetime,
and, brought up against the practical impossibility of this assumption, questions you--not
on a little selected first-hand knowledge--but on massed information which at the best can
be but derivative and second-hand.

Now hear Bacon.

  Studies serve for Delight--

(Mark it,--he puts delight first)

  Studies serve for Delight, for Ornament, and for Ability.
  Their Chiefe use for Delight, is in Privatenesse and
  Retiring[1]; for Ornament, is in Discourse; and for Ability,
  is in the Judgement and Disposition of Businesse.... To spend
  too much Time in Studies is Sloth; to use them too much for
  Ornament is Affectation; to make judgement wholly by their
  Rules is the Humour of a Scholler. They perfect Nature, and
  are perfected by Experience: for Naturall Abilities are like
  Naturall Plants, they need Proyning by Study. And Studies
  themselves doe give forth Directions too much at Large,
  unless they be bounded in by experience.

Again, he says:

  Some Bookes are to be Tasted, Others to be Swallowed,
  and Some Few to be Chewed and Digested: that is, some
  Bookes are to be read onely in Parts; Others to be read but
  not Curiously; and some Few are to be read wholly, and with
  Diligence and Attention. Some Bookes also may be read by
  Deputy, and Extracts made of them by Others. But that
  would be onely in the lesse important Arguments, and the
  Meaner Sort of Bookes: else distilled Bookes are like
  Common distilled Waters, Flashy Things.

So you see, Gentlemen, while pleading before you that Reading is an Art--that its best purpose
is not to accumulate Knowledge but to produce, to educate, such-and-such a man--that 'tis a
folly to bite off more than you can assimilate--and that with it, as with every other art,
the difficulty and the discipline lie in selecting out of vast material, what is fit, fine,
applicable--I have the great Francis Bacon himself towering behind my shoulder for patron.

Some would push the argument further than--here and now, at any rate--I choose to do, or perhaps
would at all care to do. For example, Philip Gilbert Hamerton, whom I quoted to you three weeks
ago, instances in his book "The Intellectual Life" an accomplished French cook who, in discussing
his art, comprised the whole secret of it under two heads--the knowledge of the mutual influences
of ingredients, and the judicious management of heat:

  Amongst the dishes for which my friend had a deserved
  reputation was a certain gâteau de foie which had a very
  exquisite flavour. The principal ingredient, not in quantity
  but in power, was the liver of a fowl; but there were several
  other ingredients also, and amongst these a leaf or two of
  parsley. He told me that the influence of the parsley was a
  good illustration of his theory about his art. If the parsley
  were omitted, the flavour he aimed at was not produced at all;
  but, on the other hand, if the quantity of the parsley was in
  the least excessive, then the gâteau instead of being a
  delicacy for gourmets became an uneatable mess. Perceiving that
  I was really interested in the subject, he kindly promised a
  practical evidence of his doctrine, and the next day
  intentionally spoiled the dish by a trifling addition of
  parsley. He had not exaggerated the consequences; the delicate
  flavour entirely departed, and left a nauseous bitterness in
  its place, like the remembrance of an ill-spent youth.

I trust that none of you are in a position to appreciate the full force of this last simile;
and, for myself, I should have taken the chef's word for it, without experiment. Mr Hamerton
proceeds to draw his moral:

  There is a sort of intellectual chemistry which is quite as
  marvellous as material chemistry and a thousand times more
  difficult to observe. One general truth may, however, be
  relied upon.... It is true that everything we learn affects the
  whole character of the mind.

  Consider how incalculably important becomes the
  question of proportion in our knowledge, and how that which
  we are is dependent as much upon our ignorance as our
  science. What we call ignorance is only a smaller proportion--
  what we call science only a larger.

Here the argument begins to become delicious:

  The larger quantity is recommended as an unquestionable
  good, but the goodness of it is entirely dependent on the
  mental product that we want. Aristocracies have always
  instinctively felt this, and have decided that a gentleman
  ought not to know too much of certain arts and sciences. The
  character which they had accepted as their ideal would have
  been destroyed by indiscriminate additions to those
  ingredients of which long experience had fixed the exact
  proportions....

  The last generation of the English country aristocracy
  was particularly rich in characters whose unity and charm
  was dependent upon the limitations of their culture, and
  which would have been entirely altered, perhaps not for the
  better, by simply knowing a science or a literature that was
  dosed to them.

If anything could be funnier than that, it is that it is, very possibly, true. Let us end our
quest-by-commonsense, for the moment, on this; that to read all the books that have been written---in
short to keep pace with those that are being written--is starkly impossible, and (as Aristotle
would say) about what is impossible one does not argue. We must select. Selection implies skilful
practice. Skilful practice is only another term for Art. So far plain common-sense leads us.
On this point, then, let us set up a rest and hark back.

II

Let us cast back to the three terms of my first lecture--What does, What knows, What is.

I shall here take leave to recapitulate a brief argument much sneered at a few years ago when
it was still fashionable to consider Hegel a greater philosopher than Plato. Abbreviating it
I repeat it, because I believe in it yet to-day, when Hegel (for causes unconnected with pure
right and wrong) has gone somewhat out of fashion for a while.

As the tale, then, is told by Plato, in the tenth book of "The Republic", one Er the son of
Armenius, a Pamphylian, was slain in battle; and ten days afterwards, when they collected the
dead for burial, his body alone showed no taint of corruption. His relatives, however, bore
it off to the funeral pyre; and on the twelfth day, lying there, he returned to life, and he
told them what he had seen in the other world. Many wonders he related concerning the dead,
for example, with their rewards and punishments: but what had impressed him as most wonderful
of all was the great spindle of Necessity, reaching up to Heaven, with the planets revolving
around it in graduated whorls of width and spread: yet all concentric and so timed that all
complete the full circle punctually together--'The Spindle turns on the knees of Necessity;
and on the rim of each whorl sits perched a Siren who goes round with it, hymning a single
note; the eight notes together forming one harmony.'

Now as--we have the divine word for it--upon two great commandments hang all the law and the
prophets, so all religions, all philosophies, hang upon two steadfast and faithful beliefs;
the first of which Plato would show by the above parable.

It is, of course, that the stability of the Universe rests upon ordered motion--that the 'firmament'
above, around, beneath, stands firm, continues firm, on a balance of active and tremendous
forces somehow harmoniously composed. Theology asks 'by What?' or 'by Whom?' Philosophy inclines
rather to ask 'How?' Natural Science, allowing that for the present these questions are probably
unanswerable, contents itself with mapping and measuring what it can of the various forces.
But all agree about the harmony; and when a Galileo or a Newton discovers a single rule of
it for us, he but makes our assurance surer. For uncounted centuries before ever hearing of
Gravitation men knew of the sun that he rose and set, of the moon that she waxed and waned,
of the tides that they flowed and ebbed, all regularly, at times to be predicted; of the stars
that they swung as by clockwork around the pole. Says the son of Sirach:

     At the word of the Holy One they will stand in due order,
     And they will not faint in their watches.

So evident is this calculated harmony that men, seeking to
interpret it by what was most harmonious in themselves or in
their human experience, supposed an actual Music of the Spheres
inaudible to mortals: Plato as we see (who learned of Pythagoras)
inventing his Octave of Sirens, perched on the whorls of the
great spindle and intoning as they spin.
  Around the ancient track march'd, rank on rank,
  The army of unalterable law--

he was merely witnessing a series of predictable or invariable recurrences, I answer that he
may be right, it suffices for my argument that they are recurrent, are invariable, can be predicted.
Anyhow the Universe is not Chaos (if it were, by the way, we should be unable to reason about
it at all). It stands and is renewed upon a harmony: and what Plato called 'Necessity' is the
Duty--compulsory or free as you or I can conceive it--the Duty of all created things to obey
that harmony, the Duty of which Wordsworth tells in his noble Ode.

III

Now the other and second great belief is, that the Universe, the macrocosm, cannot be apprehended
at all except as its rays converge upon the eye, brain, soul of Man, the microcosm: on you,
on me, on the tiny percipient centre upon which the immense cosmic circle focuses itself as
the sun upon a burning-glass--and he is not shrivelled up! Other creatures, he notes, share
in his sensations; but, so far as he can discover, not in his percipience --or not in any degree
worth measuring. So far as he can discover, he is not only a bewildered actor in the great
pageant but 'the ring enclosing all,' the sole intelligent spectator. Wonder of wonders, it
is all meant for him!

I doubt if, among men of our nation, this truth was ever more clearly grasped than by the Cambridge
Platonists who taught your forerunners of the 17th century. But I will quote you here two short
passages from the work of a sort of poor relation of theirs, a humble Welsh parson of that
time, Thomas Traherne-- unknown until the day before yesterday--from whom I gave you one sentence
in my first lecture. He is speaking of the fields and streets that were the scene of his childhood:

  Those pure and virgin apprehensions I had from the
  womb, and that divine light wherewith I was born are the
  best unto this day, wherein I can see the Universe.... The
  corn was orient and immortal wheat, which never should be
  reaped, nor was ever sown. I thought it had stood from
  everlasting to everlasting. The dust and stones of the street
  were as precious as gold: the gates were at first the end of
  the world. The green trees when I saw them first through one
  of the gates transported and ravished me.... Boys and girls
  tumbling in the street, and playing, were moving jewels. I
  knew not that they were born or should die....

  The streets were mine, the temple was mine, the people
  were mine, their clothes and gold and silver were mine, as
  much as their sparkling eyes, fair skins and ruddy faces.
  The skies were mine, and so were the sun and moon and stars;
  and all the World was mine; and I the only spectator and
  enjoyer of it.

Then:

  News from a foreign country came,
  As if my treasure and my wealth lay there;
  So much it did my heart inflame,
  'Twas wont to call my Soul into mine ear;
  Which thither went to meet
  The approaching sweet,
  And on the threshold stood
  To entertain the unknown Good....

  What sacred instinct did inspire
  My Soul in childhood with a hope to strong?
  What secret force moved my desire
  To expect new joys beyond the seas, so young?
  Felicity I knew
  Was out of view,

  And being here alone,
  I saw that happiness was gone
  From me! For this
  I thirsted absent bliss,
  And thought that sure beyond the seas,
  Or else in something near at hand--
  I knew not yet (since naught did please
  I knew) my Bliss did stand.

  But little did the infant dream
  That all the treasures of the world were by:
  And that himself was so the cream
  And crown of all which round about did lie.
  Yet thus it was: the Gem,
  The Diadem,
  The Ring enclosing all
  That stood upon this earthly ball,
  The Heavenly Eye,
  Much wider than the sky,
  Wherein they all included were,
  The glorious Soul, that was the King
  Made to possess them, did appear
  A small and little thing!

Man in short--you, I, any one of us--the heir of it all!

Tot circa unum caput tumultuantes deos!

Our best privilege to sing our short lives out in tune with the heavenly concert--and if to
sing afterwards, then afterwards!

IV

But how shall Man ever attain to understand and find his proper place in this Universe, this
great sweeping harmonious circle of which nevertheless he feels himself to be the diminutive
focus? His senses are absurdly imperfect. His ear cannot catch any music the spheres make;
and moreover there are probably neither spheres nor music. His eye is so dull an instrument
that (as Blanco White's famous sonnet reminds us) he can neither see this world in the dark,
nor glimpse any of the scores of others until it falls dark:

     If Light can thus deceive, wherefore not Life?

Yet the Universal Harmony is meaningless and nothing to man save in so far as he apprehends
it: and lacking him (so far as he knows) it utterly lacks the compliment of an audience. Is
all the great orchestra designed for nothing but to please its Conductor? Yes, if you choose:
but no, as I think.

Yes and, all spirit being mutually attractive, far more than this! I preach to you that, through
help of eyes that are dim, of ears that are dull, by instinct of something yet undefined--call
it soul--it wants no less a name--Man has a native impulse and attraction and yearning to merge
himself in that harmony and be one with it: a spirit of adoption (as St Paul says) whereby
we cry Abba, Father!

That is to say, we know we have something within us correspondent to the harmony, and (I make
bold to say) unless we have deadened it with low desires, worthy to join in it. Even in his
common daily life Man is for ever seeking after harmony, in avoidance of chaos: he cultivates
habits by the clock, he forms committees, governments, hierarchies, laws, constitutions, by
which (as he hopes) a system of society will work in tune. But these are childish imitations,
underplay on the great motive:

     The Kingdom of God is within you.

Quid aliud est anima quam Deus in corpore humano hospitans?

V

Gentlemen, you may be thinking that I have brought you a long way round, that the hour is wearing
late, and that we are yet far from the prey we first hunted on the line of common-sense. But
be patient for a minute or two, for almost we have our hand on the animal.

If the Kingdom of God, or anything correspondent to it, be within us, even in such specks of
dust as we separately are, why that, and that only, can be the light by which you or I may
hope to read the Universal: that, and that only, deserves the name of 'What Is.' Nay, I can
convince you in a moment.

It is remarkable, as Emerson says; and yet, as we now see, quite simple. A learned man may
patronise a less learned one: but the Kingdom of God cannot patronise the Kingdom of God, the
larger the smaller. There are large and small. Between these two mysteries of a harmonious
universe and the inward soul are granted to live among us certain men whose minds and souls
throw out filaments more delicate than ours, vibrating to far messages which they bring home,
to report them to us; and these men we call prophets, poets, masters, great artists, and when
they write it, we call their report literature. But it is by the spark in us that we read it:
and not all the fire of God that was in Shakespeare can dare to patronise the little spark
in me. If it did, I can see--with Blake--the angelic host

     throw down their spears
     And water heaven with their tears.

VI

To nurse that spark, common to the king, the sage, the poorest child--to fan, to draw up to
a flame, to 'educate' What Is--to recognise that it is divine, yet frail, tender, sometimes
easily tired, easily quenched under piles of book-learning--to let it run at play very often,
even more often to let it rest in what Wordsworth calls

     a wise passiveness

passive--to use a simile of Coventry Patmore--as a photographic plate which finds stars that
no telescope can discover, simply by waiting with its face turned upward--to mother it, in
short, as wise mothers do their children--this is what I mean by the Art of Reading.

For all great Literature, I would lastly observe, is gentle towards that spirit which learns
of it. It teaches by apprehension not by comprehension--which is what many philosophers try
to do, and, in trying, break their jugs and spill the contents. Literature understands man
and of what he is capable. Philosophy, on the other hand, may not be 'harsh and crabbed, as
dull fools suppose,' but the trouble with most of its practitioners is that they try to comprehend
the Universe. Now the man who could comprehend the Universe would ipso facto comprehend God,
and be ipso facto a Super-God, able to dethrone him, and in the arrogance of his intellectual
conceit full ready to make the attempt.

[Footnote 1:  Do you remember, by the by, Samuel Rogers's lines on Lady Jane Grey? They have
always seemed to me very beautiful:

  Like her most gentle, most unfortunate,
  Crown'd but to die--who in her chamber sate
  Musing with Plato, though the horn was blown,
  And every ear and every heart was won,
  And all in green array were chasing down the sun!]

LECTURE III

CHILDREN'S READING (I)

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1917

I have often wished, Gentlemen, that some more winning name could be found for the thing we
call Education; and I have sometimes thought wistfully that, had we made a better thing of
it, we should long ago have found a more amiable, a blither, name.

For after all it concerns the child; and is it quite an accident that, weaning him away from
lovely things that so lovelily call themselves 'love,' 'home,' 'mother,' we can find no more
alluring titles for the streets into which we entrap him than 'Educational Facilities,' 'Local
Examinations,' 'Preceptors,' 'Pedagogues,' 'Professors,' 'Matriculations,' 'Certificates,'
'Diplomas,' 'Seminaries,' Elementary or Primary, and Secondary Codes,' 'Continuation Classes,'
'Reformatories,' 'Inspectors,' 'Local Authorities,' 'Provided' and 'Non-Provided,' 'Denominational'
and 'Undenominational,' and 'D.Litt.' and 'Mus. Bac.'? Expressive terms, no doubt!--but I ask
with the poet

     Who can track
     A Grace's naked foot amid them all?

Take even such words as should be perennially beautiful by connotation-words such as 'Academy,'
'Museum.' Does the one (O, "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Clapham Academy!") call up visions
of that green lawn by Cephissus, of its olives and plane trees and the mirrored statues among
which Plato walked and held discourse with his few? Does the other as a rule invite to haunts
(O God! O Montreal!) where you can be secure of communion with Apollo and the Nine? Answer
if the word Academy does not first call up to the mind some place where small boys are crammed,
the word Museum some place where bigger game are stuffed?

And yet 'academy,' 'museum,' even 'education' are sound words if only we would make the things
correspond with their meanings. The meaning of 'education' is a leading out, a drawing-forth;
not an imposition of something on somebody--a catechism or an uncle-- upon the child; but an
eliciting of what is within him. Now, if you followed my last lecture, we find that which is
within him to be no less, potentially, than the Kingdom of God.

I grant that this potentiality is, between the ages of four and sixteen, not always, perhaps
not often, evident. The boy--in Bagehot's phrase 'the small apple-eating urchin whom we know'--
has this in common with the fruit for which he congenitally sins, that his very virtues in
immaturity are apt, setting the teeth on edge, to be mistaken for vices. A writer, to whom
I shall recur, has said:

  If an Englishman who had never before tasted an apple
  were to eat one in July, he would probably come to the
  conclusion that it was a hard, sour, indigestible fruit,
  `conceived in sin and shapen in iniquity,' fit only to be
  consigned to perdition (on a dust heap or elsewhere). But if
  the same man were to wait till October and then eat an apple
  from the same tree, he would find that the sourness had
  ripened into wholesome and refreshing acidity; the hardness
  into firmness of fibre which, besides being pleasant to the
  palate, makes the apple 'keep' better than any other fruit;
  the indigestibility into certain valuable dietetic qualities,
  and so on....

In other words--trench, manure, hoe and water around your young tree, and patiently allow the
young fruit to develop of its own juice from the root; your own task being, as the fruit forms,
but to bring in all you can of air and sunshine upon it. It must, as every mother and nurse
knows, be coaxed to realise itself, to develop, to grow from its individual root. It may be
coaxed and trained. But the main secret lies in encouraging it to grow, and, to that end, in
pouring sunshine upon it and hoeing after each visitation of tears parentally induced.

Every child wants to grow. Every child wants to learn. During his first year or so of life
he fights for bodily nutriment, almost ferociously. From the age of two or thereabouts he valiantly
essays the conquest of articulate speech, using it first to identify his father or his mother
amid the common herd of Gentiles; next, to demand a more liberal and varied dietary; anon,
as handmaid of his imperious will to learn. This desire, still in the nursery, climbs--like
dissolution in Wordsworth's sonnet--from low to high: from a craving to discover experimentally
what the stomach will assimilate and what reject, up to a kingly debonair interest in teleology.
Our young gentleman is perfectly at ease in Sion. He wants to know why soldiers are (or were)
red, and if they were born so; whence bread and milk is derived, and would it be good manners
to thank the neat cow for both; why mamma married papa, and--that having been explained and
thoughtfully accepted as the best possible arrangement--still thoughtfully, not in the least
censoriously, 'why the All-Father has not married yet?' He falls asleep weighing the eligibility
of various spinsters, church-workers, in the parish.

His brain teeming with questions, he asks them of impulse and makes his discoveries with joy.
He passes to a school, which is supposed to exist for the purpose of answering these or cognate
questions even before he asks them: and behold, he is not happy! Or, he is happy enough at
play, or at doing in class the things that should not be done in class: his master writes home
that he suffers in his school work 'from having always more animal spirits than are required
for his immediate purposes.' What is the trouble? You cannot explain it by home-sickness: for
it attacks day boys alike with boarders. You cannot explain it by saying that all true learning
involves 'drudgery,' unless you make that miserable word a mendicant and force it to beg the
question. 'Drudgery' is what you feel to be drudgery--

     Who sweeps a room, as for thy laws,
     Makes that and th' action fine.

--and, anyhow, this child learned one language--English, a most difficult one--eagerly. Of
the nursery through which I passed only one sister wept while learning to read, and that was
over a scholastic work entitled "Reading Without Tears."

Do you know a chapter in Mr William Canton's book "The Invisible Playmate" in which, as Carlyle
dealt in "Sartor Resartus" with an imaginary treatise by an imaginary Herr Teufelsdröckh, as
Matthew Arnold in "Friendship's Garland" with the imaginary letters of an imaginary Arminius
(Germany in long-past happier days lent the world these playful philosophical spirits), so
the later author invents an old village grandpapa, with the grandpapa-name of Altegans and
a prose-poem printed in scarecrow duodecimo on paper-bag pages and entitled "Erster Schulgang,"
'first school-going,' or 'first day at school'?

The poem opens with a wonderful vision of children; delightful as it is unexpected; as romantic
in presentment as it is commonplace in fact. All over the world--and all under it too, when
their time comes--the children are trooping to school. The great globe swings round out of
the dark into the sun; there is always morning somewhere; and for ever in this shifting region
of the morning-light the good Altegans sees the little ones afoot--- shining companies and
groups, couples and bright solitary figures; for they all seem to have a soft heavenly light
about them.

He sees them in country lanes and rustic villages; on lonely moorlands ... he sees them on
the hillsides ... in the woods, on the stepping-stones that cross the brook in the glen, along
the seacliffs and on the water-ribbed sands; trespassing on the railway lines, making short
cuts through the corn, sitting in the ferry-boats; he sees them in the crowded streets of smoky
cities, in small rocky islands, in places far inland where the sea is known only as a strange
tradition.

The morning-side of the planet is alive with them: one hears their pattering footsteps everywhere.
And as the vast continents sweep `eastering out of the high shadow which reaches beyond the
moon' ... and as new nations with their cities and villages, their fields, woods, mountains
and sea-shores, rise up into the morning-side, lo! fresh troops, and still fresh troops, and
yet again fresh troops of these school-going children of the dawn.

What are weather and season to this incessant panorama of childhood? The pigmy people trudge
through the snow on moor and hill-side; wade down flooded roads; are not to be daunted by wind
or rain, frost or the white smother of 'millers and bakers at fisticuffs.' Most beautiful picture
of all, he sees them travelling schoolward by the late moonlight which now and again in the
winter months precedes the tardy dawn.

That vision strikes me as being poetically true as well as delightful: by which I mean that
it is not sentimental: we know that it ought to be true, that in a world well-ordered according
to our best wishes for it, it would be naturally true. It expresses the natural love of Age,
brooding on the natural eager joy of children. But that natural eager joy is just what our
schools, in the matter of reading, conscientiously kill.

In this matter of reading-of children's reading--we stand, just now, or halt just now, between
two ways. The parent, I believe, has decisively won back to the right one which good mothers
never quite forsook. There was an interval, lasting from the early years of the last century
until midway in Queen Victoria's reign and a little beyond, when children were mainly brought
up on the assumption of natural vice. They might adore father and mother, and yearn to be better
friends with papa: but there was the old Adam, a quickening evil spirit; there were his imps
always in the way, confound them! I myself lived, with excellent grandparents, for several
years on pretty close terms with Hell and an all-seeing Eye; until I grew so utterly weary
of both that I have never since had the smallest use for either. Some of you may have read,
as a curious book, the agreeable history called "The Fairchild Family," in which Mr Fairchild
leads his naughty children afield to a gallows by a cross-road and seating them under the swinging
corpse of a malefactor, deduces how easily they may come to this if they go on as they have
been going. The authors of such monitory or cautionary tales understood but one form of development,
the development of Original Sin. You stole a pin and proceeded, by fatal steps, to the penitentiary;
you threw a stick at a pheasant, turned poacher, shot a gamekeeper and ended on the gallows.
You were always Eric and it was always Little by Little with you.... Stay! memory preserves
one gem from a Sunday school dialogue, one sharp-cut intaglio of childhood springing fully
armed from the head of Satan:

  Q. Where hast thou been this Sabbath morning?
  A. I have been coursing of the squirrel.
  Q. Art not afraid so to desecrate the Lord's Day with idle
  sport?
  A. By no means: for I should tell you that I am an Atheist.

I forget what happened to that boy: but doubtless it was, as it should have been, something
drastic.

The spell of prohibition, of repression, lies so strong upon these authors that when they try
to break away from it, to appeal to something better than fear in the child, and essay to amuse,
they become merely silly. For an example in verse:

  If Human Beings only knew
  What sorrows little birds go through,
     I think that even boys
  Would never think it sport or fun
  To stand and fire a frightful gun
     For nothing but the noise.

For another (instructional and quite a good memoria technica so far as it goes):

     William and Mary came next to the throne:
     When Mary died, there was William alone.

Now for a story of incident.--It comes from the book "Reading Without Tears," that made my
small sister weep. She did not weep over the story, because she did not claim to be an angel.

Did you ever hear of the donkey that went into the sea with the little cart?... A lady drove
the cart down to the beach. She had six children with her. Three little ones sat in the cart
by her side. Three bigger girls ran before the cart. When they came to the beach the lady and
the children got out.

Very good so far. It opens like the story of Nausicaa ["Odyssey," Book vi, lines 81-86].

The lady wished the donkey to bathe its legs in the sea, to make it strong and clean. But the
donkey did not like to go near the sea. So the lady bound a brown shawl over its eyes, and
she bade the big girls lead it close to the waves. Suddenly a big wave rushed to the land.
The girls started back to avoid the wave, and they let go the donkey's rein.

The donkey was alarmed by the noise the girls made, and it went into the sea, not knowing where
it was going because it was not able to see. The girls ran screaming to the lady, crying out,
'The donkey is in the sea!'

There it was, going further and further into the sea, till the cart was hidden by the billows.
The donkey sank lower and lower every moment, till no part of it was seen but the ears; for
the brown shawl was over its nose and mouth. Now the children began to bawl and to bellow!
But no one halloed so loud as the little boy of four. His name was Merty. He feared that the
donkey was drowned....

Two fishermen were in a boat far away. They said 'We hear howls and shrieks on the shore. Perhaps
a boy or girl is drowning. Let us go and save him: So they rowed hard, and they soon came to
the poor donkey, and saw its ears peeping out of the sea. The donkey was just going to sink
when they lifted it up by the jaws, and seized the bridle and dragged it along. The children
on the shore shouted aloud for joy. The donkey with the cart came safe to land. The poor creature
was weak and dripping wet. The fishermen unbound its eyes, and said to the lady, 'We cannot
think how this thing came to be over its eyes.' The lady said she wished she had not bound
up its eyes, and she gave the shillings in her purse to the fishermen who had saved her donkey.

Now every child knows that a donkey may change into a Fairy Prince: that is a truth of imagination.
But to be polite and say nothing of the lady, every child knows that so donkey would be ass
enough to behave as in this narrative. And the good parents who, throughout the later 18th
century and the 19th, inflicted this stuff upon children, were sinning against the light. Perrault's
Fairy Tales, and Madame D'Aulnoy's were to their hand in translations; "Le Cabinet des Fées",
which includes these and M. Galland's "Arabian Nights" and many another collection of delectable
stories, extends on my shelves to 41 volumes (the last volume appeared during the fury of the
French Revolution!). The brothers Grimm published the first volume of their immortal tales
in 1812, the second in 1814. A capital selection from them, charmingly rendered, was edited
by our Edgar Taylor in 1823; and drew from Sir Walter Scott a letter of which some sentences
are worth our pondering.

He writes:

  There is also a sort of wild fairy interest in [these tales]
  which makes me think them fully better adapted to awaken
  the imagination and soften the heart of childhood than the
  good-boy stories which have been in later years composed
  for them. In the latter case their minds are, as it were, put
  into the stocks ... and the moral always consists in good
  moral conduct being crowned with temporal success. Truth
  is, I would not give one tear shed over Little Red Riding
  Hood for all the benefit to be derived from a hundred
  histories of Jemmy Goodchild.

Few nowadays, I doubt, remember Gammer Grethel. She has been ousted by completer, maybe far
better, translations of the Grimms' "Household Tales". But turning back, the other day, to
the old volume for the old sake's sake (as we say in the West) I came on the Preface--no child
troubles with a Preface--and on these wise words:

  Much might be urged against that too rigid and philosophic (we
  might rather say, unphilosophic) exclusion of works of fancy
  and fiction from the libraries of children which is advocated
  by some. Our imagination is surely as susceptible of
  improvement by exercise as our judgment or our memory.

And that admirable sentence, Gentlemen, is the real text of my discourse to-day. I lay no sentimental
stress upon Wordsworth's Ode and its doctrine that 'Heaven lies about us in our infancy.' It
was, as you know, a favourite doctrine with our Platonists of the 17th century: and critics
who trace back the Ode "Intimations of Immortality" to Henry Vaughan's

     Happy those early days, when I
     Shined in my Angel-infancy.

might connect it with a dozen passages from authors of that
century. By the
  Gift of God they attended me into the world, and by His
  special favour I remember them till now.... Certainly Adam
  in Paradise had not more sweet and curious apprehensions
  of the world, than I when I was a child.

Bethinking me again of 'the small apple-eating urchin whom we know,' I suspect an amiable fallacy
in all this: I doubt if when he scales an apple-bearing tree which is neither his own nor his
papa's he does so under impulse of any conscious yearning back to Hierusalem, his happy home,

     Where trees for evermore bear fruit.

At any rate, I have an orchard, and he has put up many excuses, but never yet that he was recollecting
Sion.

Still the doctrine holds affinity with the belief which I firmly hold and tried to explain
to you with persuasion last term: that, boy or man, you and I, the microcosms, do--sensibly,
half-sensibly, or insensibly--yearn, through what we feel to be best in us, to 'join up' with
the greater harmony; that by poetry or religion or whatnot we have that within us which craves
to be drawn out, 'e-ducated,' and linked up.

Now the rule of the nursery in the last century rested on Original Sin, and consequently and
quite logically tended not to educate, but to repress. There are no new fairy-tales of the
days when your grandmothers wore crinolines--I know, for I have searched. Mothers and nurses
taught the old ones; the Three Bears still found, one after another, that 'somebody has been
sleeping in my bed'; Fatima continued to call 'Sister Anne, do you see anyone coming?' the
Wolf to show her teeth under her nightcap and snarl out (O, great moment!) 'All the better
to eat you with, my dear.' But the Evangelicals held field. Those of our grandfathers and grandmothers
who understood joy and must have had fairies for ministers--those of our grandmothers who played
croquet through hoop with a bell and practised Cupid's own sport archery--those of our grandfathers
who wore jolly peg-top trousers and Dundreary whiskers, and built the Crystal Palace and drove
to the Derby in green-veiled top-hats with Dutch dolls stuck about the brim--tot circa unum
caput tumultuantes deos--and those splendid uncles who used to descend on the old school in
a shower of gold-- half-a-sovereign at the very least--all these should have trailed fairies
with them in a cloud. But in practice the evangelical parent held the majority, put away all
toys but Noah's Ark on Sundays, and voted the fairies down.

I know not who converted the parents. It may have been that benefactor of Europe, Hans Christian
Andersen, born at Odensee in Denmark in April 1805. He died, near Copenhagen, in 1875, having
by a few months outlived his 70th birthday. I like to think that his genius, a continuing influence
over a long generation, did more than anything else to convert the parents. The schools, always
more royalist than the King, professionally bleak, professionally dull, professionally repressive
rather than educative, held on to a tradition which, though it had to be on the sly, every
intelligent mother and nurse had done her best to evade. The schools made a boy's life penitential
on a system. They discovered athletics, as a safety-valve for high spirits they could not cope
with, and promptly made that safety-valve compulsory! They went on to make athletics a religion.
Now athletics are not properly a religious exercise, and their meaning evaporates as soon as
you enlist them in the service of repression. They are being used to do the exact opposite
of that for which God meant them. Things are better now: but in those times how many a boy,
having long looked forward to it, rejoiced in his last day at school?

I know surely enough what must be in your minds at this point: I am running up my head hard
against the doctrine of Original Sin, against the doctrine that in dealing with a child you
are dealing with a 'fallen nature,' with a human soul 'conceived in sin,' unregenerate except
by repression; and therefore that repression and more repression must be the only logical way
with your Original Sinners.

Well, then, I am. I have loved children all my life; studied them in the nursery, studied them
for years--ten or twelve years intimately--in elementary schools. I know for a surety, if I
have acquired any knowledge, that the child is a 'child of God' rather than a 'Child of wrath';
and here before you I proclaim that to connect in any child's mind the Book of Joshua with
the Gospels, to make its Jehovah identical in that young mind with the Father of Mercy of whom
Jesus was the Son, to confuse, as we do in any school in this land between 9.5 and 9.45 a.m.,
that bloodthirsty tribal deity whom the Hohenzollern family invokes with the true God the Father,
is a blasphemous usage, and a curse.

But let me get away to milder heresies. If you will concede for a moment that the better way
with a child is to draw out, to educate, rather than to repress, what is in him, let us observe
what he instinctively wants. Now first, of course, he wants to eat and drink, and to run about.
When he passes beyond these merely animal desires to what we may call the instinct of growth
in his soul, how does he proceed? I think Mr Holmes, whom I have already quoted, very fairly
sets out these desires as any grown-up person can perceive them. The child desires

  (1) to talk and to listen;
  (2) to act (in the dramatic sense of the word);
  (3) to draw, paint and model;
  (4) to dance and sing;
  (5) to know the why of things
  (6) to construct things.

Now I shall have something to say by and by on the amazing preponderance in this list of those
instincts which Aristotle would have called mimetic. This morning I take only the least imitative
of all, the desire to know the why of things.

Surely you know, taking only this, that the master-key admitting a child to all, or almost
all, palaces of knowledge is his ability to read. When he has grasped that key of his mother-tongue
he can with perseverance unlock all doors to all the avenues of knowledge. More--he has the
passport to heavens unguessed.

You will perceive at once that what I mean here by 'reading' is the capacity for silent reading,
taking a book apart and mastering it; and you will bear in mind the wonder that I preached
to you in a previous lecture--that great literature never condescends, that what yonder boy
in a corner reads of a king is happening to him. Do you suppose that in an elementary school
one child in ten reads thus? Listen to a wise ex-inspector, whose words I can corroborate of
experience:

  The first thing that strikes the visitor who enters an
  ordinary elementary school while a reading lesson is in
  progress is that the children are not reading at all, in the
  accepted sense of the word. They are not reading to
  themselves, not studying, not mastering the contents of the
  book, not assimilating the mental and spiritual nutriment that
  it may be supposed to contain. They are standing up one by
  one and reading aloud to their teacher.

Ah! but I have seen far worse than that. I have visited and condemned rural schools where the
practice was to stand a class up--- say a class of thirty children--and make them read in unison:
which meant, of course, that the front row chanted out the lesson while the back rows made
inarticulate noises. I well remember one such exhibition, in a remote country school on the
Cornish hills, and having my attention arrested midway by the face of a girl in the third row.
She was a strikingly beautiful child, with that combination of bright auburn, almost flaming,
hair with dark eyebrows, dark eyelashes, dark eyes, which of itself arrests your gaze, being
so rare; and those eyes seemed to challenge me half scornfully and ask, 'Are you really taken
in by all this?' Well, I soon stopped the performance and required each child to read separately:
whereupon it turned out that, in the upper standards of this school of 70 or 80 children, one
only-- this disdainful girl--could get through half a dozen easy sentences with credit. She
read well and intelligently, being accustomed to read to herself, at home.

I daresay that this bad old method of block-reading is dead by this time.

Reading aloud and separately is excellent for several purposes. It tests capacity: it teaches
correct pronunciation by practice, as well as the mastery of difficult words: it provides a
good teacher with frequent opportunities of helping the child to understand what he reads.

But as his schooling proceeds he should be accustomed more and more to read to himself: for
that, I repeat, is the master-key.

LECTURE IV

CHILDREN'S READING (II)

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1917

I

In our talk, Gentlemen, about Children's Reading we left off upon a list, drawn up by Mr Holmes
in his book 'What Is, and What Might Be,' of the things that, apart from physical nourishment
and exercise, a child instinctively desires.

Let us scan through this catalogue briefly, in its order.

No. (1). To talk and to listen--Mr Holmes calls this the communicative instinct. Every child
wants to talk with those about him, or at any rate with his chosen ones--his parents, brothers,
sisters, nurse, governess, gardener, boot-boy (if he possess these last)--with other children,
even if his dear papa is poor: to tell them what he has been doing, seeing, feeling: and to
listen to what they have to tell him.

Nos. (2), (3), (4). To act--our author calls this the 'dramatic instinct': to draw, paint and
model--this the 'artistic instinct'--to dance and sing--this the 'musical instinct.' But obviously
all these are what Aristotle would call 'mimetic' instincts: 'imitative' (in a sense I shall
presently explain); even as No. (2)--acting--like No. (1)--talking and listening--comes of
craving for sympathy. In fact, as we go on, you will see that these instincts overlap and are
not strictly separable, though we separate them just now for convenience.

No. (5). To know the why of things--the 'inquisitive instinct.' This, being the one which gives
most trouble to parents, parsons, governesses, conventional schoolmasters--to all grown-up
persons who pretend to know what they don't and are ashamed to tell what they do--is of course
the most ruthlessly repressed.

  'The time is come,' the Infant said,
  'To talk of many things:
  Of babies, storks and cabbages
  And--

--having studied the Evangelists' Window facing the family pew--

  And whether cows have wings.'

The answer, in my experience, is invariably stern, and 'in the negative': in tolerant moments
compromising on 'Wait, like a good boy, and see.'

But we singled out this instinct and discussed it in our last lecture.

No. (6). To construct things--the 'constructive instinct.' I quote Mr Holmes here:

  After analysis comes synthesis. The child pulls his toys
  to pieces in order that he may, if possible, reconstruct
  them. The ends that he sets before himself are those which
  Comte Set before the human race--savoir pour prévoir, afin
  de pouvoir: induire pour déduire, afin de construire. The
  desire to make things, to build things up, to control ways
  and means, to master the resources of nature, to put his
  knowledge of her laws and facts to practical use, is strong in
  his soul. Give him a box of bricks, and he will spend hours
  in building and rebuilding houses, churches.... Set him on a
  sandy shore with a spade and a pail, and he will spend hours
  in constructing fortified castles with deep encircling moats.

Again obviously this constructive instinct overlaps with the imitative ones. Construction,
for example, enters into the art of making mud-pies and has also been applied in the past to
great poetry. If you don't keep a sharp eye in directing this instinct, it may conceivably
end in an "Othello" or in a "Divina Commedia."

II

Without preaching on any of the others, however, I take three of the six instincts scheduled
by Mr Holmes--the three which you will allow to be almost purely imitative.

They are:

  Acting,
  Drawing, painting, modelling,
  Dancing and singing.

Now let us turn to the very first page of Aristotle's "Poetics," and what do we read?

  Epic poetry and Tragedy, Comedy also and dithyrambic poetry,
  and the greater part of the music of the flute and of the
  lyre, are all, in general, modes of imitation....

  For as their are persons who represent a number of things
  by colours and drawings, and others vocally, so it is with
  the arts above mentioned. They all imitate by rhythm,
  language, harmony, singly or combined.

Even dancing (he goes on)

  imitates character, emotion and action, by rhythmical
  movement.

Now, having touched on mud-pies, let me say a few words upon these aesthetic imitative instincts
of acting, dancing, singing before I follow Aristotle into his explanation of the origin of
Poetry, which I think we may agree to be the highest subject of our Art of Reading and to hold
promise of its highest reward.

Every wise mother sings or croons to her child and dances him on her knee. She does so by sure
instinct, long before the small body can respond or his eyes--always blue at first and unfathomably
aged--return her any answer. It lulls him into the long spells of sleep so necessary for his
first growth. By and by, when he has found his legs, he begins to skip, and even before he
has found articulate speech, to croon for himself. Pass a stage, and you find him importing
speech, drama, dance, incantation, into his games with his playmates. Watch a cluster of children
as they enact "Here we go gathering nuts in May"-- eloquent line: it is just what they are
doing!--or "Here come three Dukes a-riding," or "Fetch a pail of water," or "Sally, Sally Waters":

  Sally, Sally Waters,
  Sitting in the sand,
  Rise, Sally--rise, Sally,
  For a young man.

Suitor presented, accepted [I have noted, by the way, that this game is more popular with girls
than with boys]; wedding ceremony hastily performed--so hastily, it were more descriptive to
say 'taken for granted'--within the circle; the dancers, who join hands and resume the measure,
chanting

  Now you are married, we wish you joy--
  First a girl and then a boy

--the order, I suspect, dictated by exigencies of rhyme rather than of Eugenics, as Dryden
confessed that a rhyme had often helped him to a thought. And yet I don't know; for the incantation
goes on to redress the balance in a way that looks scientific:

  Ten years after, son and daughter,
  And now--

[Practically!]

  And now, Miss Sally, come out of the water.

The players end by supplying the applause which, in these days of division of labour, is commonly
left to the audience.

III

Well, there you have it all: acting, singing, dancing, choral movement--enlisted ancillary
to the domestic drama: and, when you start collecting evidence of these imitative instincts
blent in childhood the mass will soon amaze you and leave you no room to be surprised that
many learned scholars, on the supposition that uncivilised man is a child more or less--and
at least so much of child that one can argue through children's practice to his--have found
the historical origin of Poetry itself in these primitive performances: 'communal poetry' as
they call it. I propose to discuss with you (may be neat term) in a lecture not belonging to
this 'course' the likelihood that what we call specifically 'the Ballad,' or 'Ballad Poetry,'
originated thus. Here is a wider question. Did all Poetry develop out of this, historically,
as a process in time and in fact? These scholars (among whom I will instance one of the most
learned--Dr Gummere) hold that it did: and I may take a passage from Dr Gummere's "Beginnings
of Poetry" (p. 95) to show you how they call in the practice of savage races to support their
theory. The Botocudos of South America are-- according to Dr Paul Ehrenreich who has observed
them[1]--an ungentlemanly tribe, 'very low in the social scale.'

  The Botocudos are little better than a leaderless horde, and
  pay scant respect to their chieftain; they live only for their
  immediate bodily needs, and take small thought for the
  morrow, still less for the past. No traditions, no legends, are
  abroad to tell them of their forbears. They still use gestures
  to express feeling and ideas; while the number of words which
  imitate a given sound `is extraordinarily great' An action or
  an object is named by imitating the sound peculiar to it; and
  sounds are doubled to express greater intensity.... To speak is
  aõ; to speak loudly or to sing, is aõ-aõ. And now for their
  aesthetic life, their song, dance, poetry, as described by this
  accurate observer. 'On festal occasions the whole horde meets
  by night round the camp fire for a dance. Men and women
  alternating ... form a circle; each dancer lays his arms about
  the necks of his two neighbours, and the entire ring begins to
  turn to the right or to the left, while all the dancers stamp
  strongly and in rhythm the foot that is advanced, and drag
  after it the other foot. Now with drooping heads they press
  closer and closer together; now they widen the circle.
  Throughout the dance resounds a monotonous song to which
  they stamp their feet. Often one can hear nothing but a
  continually repeated kalanî aha!...Again, however, short
  improvised songs, in which we are told the doings of the day,
  the reasons for rejoicing, what not, as "Good hunting," or "Now
  we have something to eat," or "Brandy is good."'

'As to the aesthetic value' of these South American utterances, Dr Gummere asks in a footnote,
'how far is it inferior to the sonorous commonplaces of our own verse--say "The Psalm of Life?"'
I really cannot answer that question. Which do you prefer, Gentlemen?--'Life is real, life
is earnest,' or 'Now we have something to eat'? I must leave you to settle it with the Food
Controller.

The Professor goes on:

  'Now and then, too, an individual begins a song, and is
  answered by the rest in chorus.... They never sing without
  dancing, never dance without singing, and have but one word
  to express both song and dance.'

  As the unprejudiced reader sees [Dr Gummere proceeds]
  this clear and admirable account confirms the doctrine of
  early days revived with fresh ethnological evidence in the
  writings of Dr Brown and of Adam Smith, that dance, poetry
  and song were once a single and inseparable function, and is
  in itself fatal to the idea of rhythmic prose, of solitary
  recitation, as foundations of poetry.... All poetry is
  communal, holding fast to the rhythm of consent as to the
  one sure fact.

IV

Now I should tell you, Gentlemen, that I hold such utterances as this last--whatever you may
think of the utterances of the Botocudos--to be exorbitant: that I distrust all attempts to
build up (say) "Paradise Lost" historically from the yells and capers of recondite savages.

I bend over the learned page pensively, and I seem to see a Botocudo Professor--though not
high 'in the social scale,' they may have such things--visiting Cambridge on the last night
of the Lent races and reporting of its inhabitants as follows:

  They pay scant heed to their chiefs: they live only for their
  immediate bodily needs, and take small thought for the
  morrow. Each dancer lays his arms
  about the necks of his two neighbours, stamping strongly
  with one foot and dragging the other after it. Now with
  drooping heads they press closer and closer together; now
  they widen the circle.

  The chorus twice repeats this and asseverates that they
  are following a custom common to the flotilla, the
  expeditionary force, and even their rude seats of learning.

And Dr Gummere, or somebody else, comments: 'As the unprejudiced reader will see, this clear
and admirable account confirms our hypothesis that in communal celebration we have at once
the origin and model of three poems, "The Faerie Queene," "Paradise Lost" and "In Memoriam,"
recorded as having been composed by members of this very tribe.'

Although we have been talking of instincts, we are not concerned here with the steps by which
the child, or the savage, following an instinct attains to write poetry; but, more modestly,
with the instinct by which the child likes it, and the way in which he can be best encouraged
to read and improve this natural liking. Nor are we even concerned here to define Poetry. It
suffices our present purpose to consider Poetry as the sort of thing the poets write.

But obviously if we find a philosopher discussing poetry without any reference to children,
and independently basing it upon the very same imitative instincts which we have noted in children,
we have some promise of being on the right track.

V

So I return to Aristotle. Aristotle (I shall in fairness say) does not anticipate Dr Gummere,
to contradict or refute him; he may even be held to support him incidentally. But he sticks
to business, and this is what he says ("Poetics," C. IV):

  Poetry in general seems to have sprung from two causes, and
  these natural causes. First the instinct to imitate is
  implanted in man from his childhood, and in this he differs
  from other animals, being the most imitative of them all. Man
  gets his first learning through imitation, and all men delight
  in seeing things imitated. This is clearly shown by
  experience....

  To imitate, then, being instinctive in our nature, so too
  we have an instinct for harmony and rhythm, metre being
  manifestly a species of rhythm: and man, being born to these
  instincts and little by little improving them, out of his early
  improvisations created Poetry.

Combining these two instincts, with him, we arrive at harmonious imitation. Well and good.
But what is it we imitate in poetry?-- noble things or mean things? After considering this,
putting mean things aside as unworthy, and voting for the nobler--which must at the same time
be true, since without truth there can be no real nobility--Aristotle has to ask `In what way
true? True to ordinary life, with its observed defeats of the right by the wrong? or true,
as again instinct tells good men it should be, universally?' So he arrives at his conclusion
that a true thing is not necessarily truth of fact in a world where truth in fact is so often
belied or made meaningless--not the record that Alcibiades went somewhere and suffered something--but
truth to the Universal, the superior demand of our conscience. In such a way only we know that
"The Tempest" or "Paradise Lost" or "The Ancient Mariner" or "Prometheus Unbound" can be truer
than any police report. Yet we know that they are truer in essence, and in significance, since
they appeal to eternal verities--since they imitate the Universal--whereas the police report
chronicles (faithfully, as in duty bound, even usefully in its way) events which may, nay must,
be significant somehow but cannot at best be better to us than phenomena, broken ends and shards.

VI

I return to the child. Clearly in obeying the instinct which I have tried to illustrate, he
is searching to realise himself; and, as educators, we ought to help this effort--or, at least,
not to hinder it.

Further, if we agree with Aristotle, in this searching to realise himself through imitation,
what will the child most nobly and naturally imitate? He will imitate what Aristotle calls
'the Universal,' the superior demand. And does not this bring us back to consent with what
I have been preaching from the start in this course--that to realise ourselves in What Is not
only in degree transcends mere knowledge and activity, What Knows and What Does, but transcends
it in kind? It is not only what the child unconsciously longs for: it is that for which (in
St Paul's words) 'the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now'; craving
for this (I make you the admission) as emotionally, as the heart may be thrilled, the breast
surge, the eyes swell with tears, at a note drawn from the violin: feeling that somewhere,
beyond reach, we have a lost sister, and she speaks to our soul.

VII

Who, that has been a child, has not felt this surprise of beauty, the revelation, the call of it?

     The sounding cataract
     Haunted me like a passion ...

--yes, or a rainbow on the spray against a cliff; or a vista of lawns between descending woods;
or a vision of fish moving in a pool under the hazel's shadow? Who has not felt the small surcharged
heart labouring with desire to express it?

I preach to you that the base of all Literature, of all Poetry, of all Theology, is one, and
stands on one rock: the very highest Universal Truth is something so simple that a child may
understand it. They vary but in power to apprehend, and this may be more easily hindered than
helped by the conceit begotten of finite knowledge. I shall even dare to quote of this Universal
Truth, the words I once hardily put into the mouth of John Wesley concerning divine Love: 'I
see now that if God's love reach up to every star and down to every poor soul on earth, it
must be vastly simple; so simple that all dwellers on Earth may be assured of it--as all who
have eyes may be assured of the planet shining yonder at the end of the street--and so vast
that all bargaining is below it, and they may inherit it without considering their deserts.'
I believe this to be strictly and equally true of the appeal which Poetry makes to each of
us, child or man, in his degree. 'There is a pleasure in poetic pains,' says Wordsworth: but,
Gentlemen, if you have never felt the travail, yet you have still to understand the bliss of
deliverance.

VIII

If, then, you consent with me thus far in theory, let us now drive at practice. You have (we
will say) a class of thirty or forty in front of you. We will assume that they know a-b, ab,
can at least spell out their words. You will choose a passage for them, and you will not (if
you are wise) choose a passage from "Paradise Lost": your knowledge telling you that "Paradise
Lost" was written, late in his life, by a great virtuoso, and older men (of whom I, sad to
say, am one) assuring you that to taste the Milton of "Paradise Lost" a man must have passed
his thirtieth year. They won't know who Hebe was, but you can tell them later. The metre is
taking hold of them (in my experience the metre of "L'Allegro" can be relied upon to grip children)
and anyway they can see `Laughter holding both his sides': they recognise it as if they saw
the picture. Go on steadily:

  Come, and trip it as ye go,
  On the light fantastick toe;
  And in thy right hand lead with thee
  The Mountain Nymph, sweet Liberty;
  And, if I give thee honour due,
  Mirth, admit me of thy crew--

Do not pause and explain what a Nymph is, or why Liberty is the 'Mountain Nymph'! Go on reading:
the Prince has always to break through briers to kiss the Sleeping Beauty awake. Go on with
the incantation, calling him, persuading him, that he is the Prince and she is worth it.

At this point--still as you read without stopping to explain, the child certainly feels that
he is being led to something.

Don't stop (I say) to explain that Hebe was (for once) the legitimate daughter of Zeus and,
as such, had the privilege to draw wine for the gods. Don't even stop, just yet, to explain
who the gods were. Don't discourse on amber, otherwise ambergris; don't explain that 'gris'
in this connexion doesn't mean 'grease'; don't trace it through the Arabic into Noah's Ark;
don't prove its electrical properties by tearing up paper into little bits and attracting them
with the mouth-piece of your pipe rubbed on your sleeve. Don't insist philologically that when
every shepherd 'tells his tale' he is not relating an anecdote but simply keeping tally of
his flock.

Just go on reading, as well as you can; and be sure that when the children get the thrill of
it, for which you wait, they will be asking more questions, and pertinent ones, than you are
able to answer.

IX

This advice, to be sure, presupposes of the teacher himself some capacity of reading aloud,
and reading aloud is not taught in our schools. In our Elementary Schools, in which few of
the pupils contemplate being called to Holy Orders or to the Bar, it is practised, indeed,
but seldom taught as an art. In our Secondary and Public Schools it is neither taught nor practised:
as I know to my cost--and you, to yours, Gentlemen, on whom I have had to practise.

But let the teacher take courage. First let him read a passage 'at the long breath'--as the
French say--aloud, and persuasively as he can. Now and then he may pause to indicate some particular
beauty, repeating the line before he proceeds. But he should be sparing of these interruptions.
When Laughter, for example, is already 'holding both his sides' it cannot be less than officious,
a work of supererogation, to stop and hold them for him; and he who obeys the counsel of perfection
will read straight to the end and then recur to particular beauties. Next let him put up a
child to continue with the tale, and another and another, just as in a construing class. While
the boy is reading, the teacher should never interrupt: he should wait, and return afterwards
upon a line that has been slurred or wrongly emphasised. When the children have done reading
he should invite questions on any point they have found puzzling: it is with the operation
of poetry on their minds that his main business lies. Lastly, he may run back over significant
points they have missed.

'And is that all the method?'-Yes, that is all the method. 'So simple as that?'-Yes, even so
simple as that, and (I claim) even so wise, seeing that it just lets the author--Chaucer or
Shakespeare or Milton or Coleridge--have his own way with the young plant--just lets them drop
'like the gentle rain from heaven,' and soak in.

  The moving Moon went up the sky,
  And no where did abide:
  Softly she was going up,
  And a star or two beside.

Do you really want to chat about that? Cannot you trust it?

Must you tell them that for the Moon to hold a star anywhere within her circumference is an
astronomical impossibility? Very well, then; tell it. But tell it afterwards, and put it away
quietly. For the quality of Poetry is not strained. Let the rain soak; then use your hoe, and
gently; and still trust Nature; by which, I again repeat to you, all spirit attracts all spirit
as inevitably as all matter attracts all matter.

'Strained.' I am glad that memory flew just here to the word of Portia's: for it carries me
on to a wise page of Dr Corson's, and a passage in which, protesting against the philologers
who cram our children's handbooks with irrelevant information that but obscures what Chaucer
or Shakespeare mean, he breaks out in Chaucer's own words:

     Thise cookes, how they stampe, and streyne, and grynde,
     And turnen substaunce into accident!

(Yes, and make the accident the substance!)--as he insists that the true subject of literary
study is the author's meaning; and the true method a surrender of the mind to that meaning,
with what Wordsworth calls 'a wise passiveness':

  The eye--it cannot choose but see;
  We cannot bid the ear be still;
  Our bodies feel, where'er they be,
  Against or with our will.

  Think you, 'mid all this mighty sum
  Of things for ever speaking,
  That nothing of itself will come,
  But we must still be seeking?

X

I have been talking to-day about children; and find that most of the while I have been thinking,
if but subconsciously, of poor children. Now, at the end, you may ask 'Why, lecturing here
at Cambridge, is he preoccupied with poor children who leave school at fourteen and under,
and thereafter read no poetry?'...Oh, yes! I know all about these children and the hopeless,
wicked waste; these with a common living-room to read in, a father tired after his day's work,
and (for parental encouragement) just the two words 'Get out!' A Scots domine writes in his log:

  I have discovered a girl with a sense of humour. I asked my
  qualifying class to draw a graph of the attendance at a village
  kirk. 'And you must explain away any rise or fall,' I said.

  Margaret Steel had a huge drop one Sunday, and her explanation
  was 'Special Collection for Missions.' Next Sunday the
  Congregation was abnormally large: Margaret wrote 'Change of
  Minister.'... Poor Margaret! When she is fourteen, she will go
  out into the fields, and in three years she will be an ignorant
  country bumpkin.

And again:

  Robert Campbell (a favourite pupil) left the school to-day. He
  had reached the age-limit.... Truly it is like death: I stand
  by a new made grave, and I have no hope of a resurrection.
  Robert is dead.

Precisely because I have lived on close terms with this, and the wicked waste of it, I appeal
to you who are so much more fortunate than this Robert or this Margaret and will have far more
to say in the world, to think of them--how many they are. I am not sentimentalising. When an
Elementary Schoolmaster spreads himself and tells me he looks upon every child entering his
school as a potential Lord Chancellor, I answer that, as I expect, so I should hope, to die
before seeing the world a Woolsack. Jack cannot ordinarily be as good as his master; if he
were, he would be a great deal better. You have given Robert a vote, however, and soon you
will have to give it to Margaret. Can you not give them also, in their short years at school,
something to sustain their souls in the long Valley of Humiliation?

Do you remember this passage in "The Pilgrim's Progress"--as the pilgrims passed down that valley?

  Now as they were going along and talking, they espied a
  Boy feeding his Father's Sheep. The Boy was in very mean
  Cloaths, but of a very fresh and well-favoured
  Countenance, and as he sate by himself he Sung. Hark, said
  Mr Greatheart, to what the Shepherd's Boy saith.

Well, it was a very pretty song, about Contentment.

     He that is down need fear no fall
     He that is low, no Pride:
     He that is humble ever shall
     Have God to be his Guide.

But I care less for its subject than for the song. Though life condemn him to live it through
in the Valley of Humiliation, I want to hear the Shepherd Boy singing.

[Footnote 1: The reference given is Zeitschr. f. Ethnologie, XIX. 30 ff.]

LECTURE V

ON READING FOR EXAMINATIONS

WEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 1917

I

You, Gentlemen, who so far have followed with patience this course of lectures, advertised,
maybe too ambitiously, as 'On the Art of Reading,' will recall to your memory, when I challenge
it across the intervals of Vacation, that three propositions have been pretty steadily held
before you.

The first: (bear me out) that, man's life being of the length it is, and his activities multifarious
as they are, out of the mass of printed matter already loaded and still being shot upon this
planet, he must make selection. There is no other way.

The second: that--the time and opportunity being so brief, the mass so enormous, and the selection
therefore so difficult--he should select the books that are best for him, and take them absolutely,
not frittering his time upon books written about and around the best: that--in their order,
of course--the primary masterpieces shall come first, and the secondary second, and so on;
and mere chat about any of them last of all.

My third proposition (perhaps more discutable) has been that, the human soul's activities being
separated, so far as we can separate them, into What Does, What Knows, What Is--to be such-and-such
a man ranks higher than either knowing or doing this, that, or the other: that it transcends
all man's activity upon phenomena, even a Napoleon's: all his housed store of knowledge, though
it be a Casaubon's or a Mark Pattison's: that only by learning to be can we understand or reach,
as we have an instinct to reach, to our right place in the scheme of things: and that, any
way, all the greatest literature commands this instinct. To be Hamlet--to feel yourself Hamlet--is
more important than killing a king or even knowing all there is to be known about a text. Now
most of us have been Hamlet, more or less: while few of us, I trust, have ever murdered a monarch:
and still fewer, perhaps, can hope to know all that is to be known of the text of the play.
But for value, Gentlemen, let us not rank these three achievements by order of their rarity.
Shakespeare means us to feel--to be--Hamlet. That is all: and from the play it is the best
we can get.

II

Now in talking to you, last term, about children I had perforce to lay stress on the point
that, with all this glut of literature, the mass of children in our commonwealth who leave
school at fourteen go forth starving.

But you are happier. You are happier, not in having your selection of reading in English done
for you at school (for you have in the Public Schools scarce any such help): but happier (1)
because the time of learning is so largely prolonged, and (2) because this most difficult office
of sorting out from the mass what you should read as most profitable has been tentatively performed
for you by us older men for your relief. For example, those of you-'if any,' as the Regulations
say--who will, a week or two hence, be sitting for Section A of the Medieval and Modern Languages
Tripos, have been spared, all along, the laborious business of choosing what you should read
or read with particular attention for the good of your souls. Is Chaucer your author? Then
you will have read (or ought to have read) "The Parlement of Fowls," the "Prologue" to The
Canterbury Tales, "The Knight's Tale," "The Man of Law's Tale," "The Nun Priest's Tale," "The
Doctor's Tale," "The Pardoner's Tale" with its Prologue, "The Friar's Tale." You were not dissuaded
from reading "Troilus;" you were not forbidden to read all the Canterbury Tales, even the naughtiest;
but the works that I have mentioned have been 'prescribed' for you. So, of Shakespeare, we
do not discourage you (at all events, intentionally) from reading "Macbeth," "Othello," "As
You Like It," "The Tempest," any play you wish. In other years we 'set' each of these in its
turn. But for this Year of Grace we insist upon "King John," "The Merchant of Venice," "King
Henry IV, Part I," "Much Ado about Nothing," "Hamlet," "King Lear," 'certain specified works'--and
so on, with other courses of study. Why is this done? Be fair to us, Gentlemen. We do it not
only to accommodate the burden to your backs, to avoid overtaxing one-and-a-half or two years
of study; not merely to guide you that you do not dissipate your reading, that you shall --with
us, at any rate--know where you are. We do it chiefly, and honestly--you likewise being honest--to
give you each year, in each prescribed course, a sound nucleus of knowledge, out of which,
later, your minds can reach to more. We are not, in the last instance, praiseworthy or blameworthy
for your range. I think, perhaps, too little of a man's range in his short while here between
(say) nineteen and twenty-two. For anything I care, the kernel may be as small as you please.
To plant it wholesome, for a while to tend it wholesome, then to show it the sky and that it
is wide--not a hot-house, nor a brassy cupola over a man, but an atmosphere shining up league
on league; to reach the moment of saying 'All this now is yours, if you have the perseverance
as I have taught you the power, coelum nactus es, hoc exorna': this, even in our present Tripos,
we endeavour to do.

III

All very well. But, as Elizabeth Barrett Browning asked,

     Do ye hear the children weeping, O my brothers?

'Yes,' I hear you ingeminate; 'but what about Examinations? We thank you, sirs, for thus relieving
and guiding us: we acknowledge your excellent intentions. But in practice you hang up a bachelor's
gown and hood on a pole, and right under and just in front of it you set the examination-barrier.
For this in practice we run during three years or so, and to this all the time you are exhorting,
directing us--whether you mean it or not, though we suspect that you cannot help yourselves.'
Yes; and, as labouring swimmers will turn their eyes even to a little boat in the offing, I
hear you pant 'This man at all events--always so insistent that good literature teaches What
Is rather than What Knows--will bring word that we may float on our backs, bathe, enjoy these
waters and be refreshed, instead of striving through them competitive for a goal. He must condemn
literary examinations, nine-tenths of which treat Literature as matter of Knowledge merely.'

IV

I am sorry, Gentlemen: I cannot bring you so much of comfort as all that. I have a love of
the past which, because it goes down to the roots, has sometimes been called Radicalism: I
could never consent with Bacon's gibe at antiquity as pessimum augurium, and Examinations have
a very respectable antiquity. Indeed no University to my knowledge has ever been able in the
long run to do without them: and although certain Colleges--King's College here, and New College
at Oxford--for long persevered in the attempt, the result was not altogether happy, and in
the end they have consigned with custom.

Of course Universities have experimented with the process. Let me give you two or three ancient
examples, which may help you to see (to vary Wordsworth) that though 'the Form decays, the
function never dies.'

(1) I begin with most ancient Bologna, famous for Civil Law. At Bologna the process of graduation--of
admission to the jus docendi, 'right to teach'--consisted of two parts, the Private Examination
and the Public (conventus):

  The private Examination was the real test of
  competence, the so-called public Examination being in
  practice a mere ceremony. Before admission to each of these
  tests the candidate was presented by the Consiliarius of his
  Nation to the Rector for permission to enter it, and swore
  that he had complied with all the statutable conditions, that
  he would give no more than the statutable fees or
  entertainments to the Rector himself, the Doctor, or his
  fellow-students, and that he would obey the Rector. Within a
  period of eight days before the Examination the candidate
  was presented by 'his own' Doctor or by some other Doctor
  or by two Doctors to the Archdeacon, the presenting Doctor
  being required to have satisfied himself by private
  examination of his presentee's fitness. Early on the morning
  of the Examination, after attending a Mass of the Holy
  Ghost, the candidate appeared before the assembled College
  and was assigned by one of the Doctors present two passages
  (puncta) in the Civil or Canon Law as the case might be. He
  then retired to his house to study the passages, in doing which
  it would appear that he had the assistance of the presenting
  Doctor. Later in the day the Doctors were summoned to the
  Cathedral, or some other public building, by the Archdeacon,
  who presided over but took no active part in the ensuing
  examination. The candidate was then introduced to the
  Archdeacon and Doctors by the presenting Doctor or Promotor
  as he was styled. The Prior of the College then administered a
  number of oaths in which the candidate promised respect to
  that body and solemnly renounced all the rights of which the
  College had succeeded in robbing all Doctors of other Colleges
  not included in its ranks. The candidate then gave a lecture or
  exposition of the two prepared passages: after which he was
  examined upon them by two of the Doctors appointed by the
  College. Other Doctors might ask supplementary questions of
  Law (which they were required to swear that they had not
  previously communicated to the candidate) arising more
  indirectly out of the passages selected, or might suggest
  objections to the answers. With a tender regard for the
  feelings of their comrades at this 'rigorous and tremendous
  Examination' (as they style it) the Statutes required the
  Examiner to treat the examinee as his own son.

But, knowing what we do of parental discipline in the Middle Ages, we need not take this to
enjoin a weak excess of leniency.

  The Examination concluded, the votes of the Doctors present
  were taken by ballot and the candidate's fate determined by the
  majority, the decision being announced by the Archdeacon.

(2) Let us pass to the great and famous University of Paris. At Paris

  In 1275, if not earlier, a preliminary test (or 'Responsions')
  was instituted to ascertain the fitness of those who wanted to
  take part in the public performance. At these 'Responsions'
  which took place in the December before the Lent in which the
  candidate was to determine, he had to dispute in Grammar and
  Logic with a Master. If this test was passed in a satisfactory
  manner, the candidate was admitted to the Examen
  Baccalariandorum, Examination for the Baccalaureate, which
  was conducted by a board of Examiners appointed by each Nation
  for its own candidates. The duty of the Examiners was twofold,
  firstly to ascertain by inspecting the schedules given by
  his Masters that the candidate had completed the necessary
  residence and attended Lectures in the prescribed subjects, and
  secondly to examine him in the contents of his books. If he
  passed this Examination, he was admitted to determine.

  Determination was a great day in the student's University
  life. It retained much of its primitive character of a
  student's festivity. It was not, it would seem, till the middle
  of the fifteenth century that the student's Master was required
  to be officially present at it. The Speech-day of a Public
  School if combined with considerably more than the license of
  the Oxford Encaenia or degree day here in May week would
  perhaps be the nearest modern equivalent of these medieval
  exhibitions of rising talent. Every effort was made to attract
  to the Schools as large an audience as possible, not merely of
  Masters or fellow-students, but if possible of ecclesiastical
  dignitaries and other distinguished persons. The friends of a
  Determiner who was not successful in drawing a more
  distinguished audience, would run out into the streets and
  forcibly drag chance passers-by into the School. Wine was
  provided at the Determiner's expense in the Schools: and the
  day ended in a feast [given in imitation of the Master's
  Inception-banquets], even if dancing or torch-light processions
  were forborne in deference to authority.

I may add here in parenthesis that the thirstiness, always so remarkable in the medieval man
whether it make him strange to you or help to ingratiate him as a human brother, seems to have
followed him even into the Tripos. 'It was not only after a University exercise,' says the
historian (Rashdall, Vol. II, p. 687), 'but during its progress that the need of refreshment
was apt to be felt.... Many Statutes allude--some by way of prohibition, but not always--to
the custom of providing wine for the Examiners or Temptator [good word] before, during, or
after the Examination. At Heidelberg the Dean of the Faculty might order in drinks, the candidate
not. At Leipsic the candidate is forbidden to treat [facere propinam] the Examiners before
the Examination: which seems sound. At Vienna (medical school) he is required to spend a florin
"pro confectionibus".'

V

Now when we come to England--that is, to Oxford and Cambridge, which ever had queer ways of
their own--we find, strange to say, for centuries no evidence at all of any kind of examination.
As for competitive examinations like the defunct Mathematical and Classical Triposes here--with
Senior Wranglers, Wooden Spoons and what lay between--of all European Universities, Louvain
alone used the system and may have invented it. At Louvain the candidates for the Mastership
were placed in three classes, in each of which the names were arranged in order of merit. The
first class were styled Rigorosi (Honour-men), the second Transibiles (Pass-men), the third
Gratiosi (Charity-passes); while a fourth class, not publicly announced, contained the names
of those who could not be passed on any terms. 'Si autem (quod absit!),' says the Statute,
'aliqui inveniantur refutabiles, erant de quarto ordine.' 'These competitive examinations'--I
proceed in the historian's words--'contributed largely to raise Louvain to the high position
as a place of learning and education which it retained before the Universities were roused
from their 15th century torpor by the revival of Learning.' Pope Adrian VI was one of its famous
Primuses, and Jansen another. The College which produced a Primus enjoyed three days' holiday,
during which its bell was rung continuously day and night.

At Oxford and Cambridge (I repeat) we find in their early days no trace of any examination
at all. To be sure--and as perhaps you know--the first archives of this University were burned
in the 'Town and Gown' riots of 1381 by the Townsmen, whose descendants Erasmus describes genially
as 'combining the utmost rusticity with the utmost malevolence.' But no student will doubt
that Cambridge used pretty much the same system as Oxford, and the system was this:--When a
candidate presented himself before the Chancellor for a License in Arts, he had to swear that
he had heard certain books[1], and nine Regent Masters (besides his own Master, who presented
him) were required to depose to their knowledge (de scientia) of his sufficiency: and five
others to their credence (de credulitate), says the Statute. Only in the School of Theology
was no room allowed to credulity: there all the Masters had to depose 'of their knowledge,'
and one black ball excluded.

VI

Well, you may urge that this method has a good deal to be said for it. I will go some way to
meet you too: but first you must pay me the compliment of supposing me a just man. Being a
just man, and there also being presumed in me some acquaintance with English Literature--not
indeed much--not necessarily much--but enough to distinguish good writing from bad or, at any
rate, real writing from sham, and at least to have an inkling of what these poets and prose-writers
were trying to do--why then I declare to you that, after two years' reading with a man and
talk with him about literature, I should have a far better sense of his industry, of his capacity,
of his performance and (better) of his promise, than any examination is likely to yield me.
In short I could sign him up for a first, second or third class, or as refutabilis, with more
accuracy and confidence than I could derive from taking him as a stranger and pondering his
three or four days' performance in a Tripos. For some of the best men mature slowly: and some,
if not most, of the best writers write slowly because they have a conscience; and the most
original minds are just those for whom, in a literary examination, it is hardest to set a paper.

But the process (you will admit) might be invidious, might lend itself to misunderstanding,
might conceivably even lead to re-imposition of an oath forbidding the use of a knife or other
sharp implement. And among Colleges rivalry is not altogether unknown; and dons, if unlike
other men in outward aspect, sometimes resemble them in frailty; and in short I am afraid we
shall have to stick to the old system for a while longer. I am sorry, Gentlemen: but you see
how it works.

VII

Yet--and I admit it--the main objection abides: that, while Literature deals with What Is rather
than with What Knows, Examinations by their very nature test mere Knowledge rather than anything
else: that in the hands of a second-rate examiner they tend to test knowledge alone, or what
passes for knowledge: and that in the very run of this world most examiners will be second-rate
men: which, if we remind ourselves that they receive the pay of fifth-rate ones is, after all,
considerably better than we have a right to expect.

We are dealing, mind you, with English Literature--our own literature. In examining upon a
foreign literature we can artfully lay our stress upon Knowledge and yet neither raise nor
risk raising the fatal questions 'What is it all about?' 'What is it, and why is it it?'-since
merely to translate literally a chorus of the "Agamemnon," or an ode of Pindar's, or a passage
from Dante or Molière is a creditable performance; to translate either well is a considerable
feat; and to translate either perfectly is what you can't do, and the examiner knows you can't
do, and you know the examiner can't do, and the examiner knows you know he can't do. How can
you examine on that? Well, yes, you can request the candidate, to 'Write a short note on the
word calumny above,' or ask 'From what is it derived?' 'What does he know of "Blackwood's Magazine?"'
'Can he quote any parallel allusion in Byron?' You can ask all that: but you are not getting
within measurable distance of it. Your mind is not even moving on the right plane. Or let me
turn back to some light and artless Elizabethan thing--say to the Oenone duet in Peele's "Arraignment
of Paris":

       Oenone.    Fair and fair and twice so fair,
                      As fair as any may be:
                    The fairest shepherd on our green,
                      A love for any lady.
       Paris      Fair and fair and twice so fair,
                      As fair as any may be:
                    Thy love is fair for thee alone,
                      And for no other lady.
       Oenone.
       Ambo. How can anyone solemnly
explain, in a hurry, answering one of five or six questions
selected from a three hours' paper, just why and how that hits
him? And yet, if it hit him not, he is lost. If even so simple a
thing as that--a thing of silly sooth--do not hit him, he is all
unfit to traffic with literature.

VIII

You see how delicate a business it is. Examination in Literature, being by its very nature
so closely tied down to be a test of Knowledge, can hardly, save when used by genius, with
care, be any final test of that which is better than Knowledge, of that which is the crown
of all scholarship, of understanding.

But do not therefore lose heart, even in your reading for strict purposes of examination. Our
talk is of reading. Let me fetch you some comfort from the sister and correlative, but harder,
art of writing.

I most potently believe that the very best writing, in verse or in prose, can only be produced
in moments of high excitement, or rather (as I should put it) in those moments of still and
solemn awe into which a noble excitement lifts a man. Let me speak only of prose, of which
you may more cautiously allow this than of verse. I think of St Paul's glorious passage, as
rendered in the Authorised Version, concluding the 15th chapter of his First Epistle to the
Corinthians. First, as you know, comes the long, swaying, scholastic, somewhat sophisticated
argument about the evidence of resurrection; about the corn, 'that which thou sowest,' the
vivification, the change in vivification, and the rest. All this, almost purely argumentative,
should be read quietly, with none of the bravura which your prize reader lavishes on it. The
argument works up quietly--at once tensely and sinuously, but very quietly--to conviction.
Then comes the hush; and then the authoritative voice speaking out of it, awful and slow, 'Behold,
I shew you a mystery' ... and then, all the latent emotion of faith taking hold and lifting
the man on its surge, 'For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible'
... and so, incorruption tolling down corruption, the trumpet smashes death underfoot in victory:
until out of the midst of tumult, sounds the recall; sober, measured, claiming the purified
heart back to discipline. I think of the sentences with which Isaak Walton ends his life of Donne.

I think of two great prose passages in Thackeray's "Esmond"; of Landor's "Dream of Boccaccio"
... and so on: and I am sure that, in prose or in verse, the best that man can utter flows
from him either in moments of high mental excitement or in the hush of that Altitudo to which
high excitement lifts him.

But, first now, observe how all these passages--and they are the first I call to mind--rise
like crests on a large bulk of a wave --St Paul's on a labouring argument about immortality;
Motley's at the conclusion of a heavy task.

And on top of this let me assure you that in writing, or learning to write, solid daily practice
is the prescription and 'waiting upon inspiration' a lure. These crests only rise on the back
of constant labour. Nine days, according to Homer, Leto travailed with Apollo: but he was Apollo,
lord of Song. I know this to be true of ordinary talent: but, supposing you all to be geniuses,
I am almost as sure that it holds of genius. Listen to this:

  Napoleon I used to say that battles were won by the sudden
  flashing of an idea through the brain of a commander at a
  certain critical instant. The capacity for generating this
  sudden electric spark was military genius.... Napoleon seems
  always to have counted upon it, always to have believed that
  when the critical moment arrived the wild confusion of the
  battlefield would be illuminated for him by that burst of
  sudden flame. But if Napoleon had been ignorant of the
  prosaic business of his profession, to which he attended more
  closely than any other commander, would these moments of
  supreme clearness have availed him, or would they have come
  to him at all?

My author thinks not: and I am sure he is right. So, in writing, only out of long preparation
can come the truly triumphant flash: and I ask you to push this analogy further, into the business
of reading, even of reading for examination. You learn to discipline yourselves, you acquire
the art of marshalling, of concentrating, driving your knowledge upon a point: and--for you
are young--that point is by no means the final point. Say that it is only an examination, and
silly at that. Still you have been learning the art, you have been training yourself to be,
for a better purpose, effective.

IX

Yet, and when this has been granted, the crucial question abides and I must not shirk it 'you
say that the highest literature deals with What Is rather than with What Knows. It is all very
fine to assure us that testing our knowledge about Literature and around Literature, and on
this side or that side of Literature, is healthy for us in some oblique way: but can you examiners
examine, or can you not, on Literature in what you call its own and proper category of What Is?'

So I hear the question--the question which beats and has beaten, over and over again, good
men trying to construct Schools of English in our Universities.

With all sense of a responsibility, of a difficulty, that has lain on my mind for these five
years, I answer, Gentlemen, 'Yes, we ought: yes, we can: and yes, we will.'

But, for the achievement, we teachers must first know how to teach. When that is learned, Examination
will come as a consequent, easy, almost trivial matter. I will, for example-- having already
allowed how hard it is to examine on literature --take the difficulty at its very extreme.
I will select a piece of poetry, and the poet shall be Keats--on whom, if on any one, is felt
the temptation to write gush and loose aesthetic chatter. A pupil comes to read with me, and
I open at the famous "Ode to a Grecian Urn."

(1) We read it through together, perhaps twice; at the second attempt getting the emphasis
right, and some, at any rate, of the modulations of voice. So we reach a working idea of the
Ode and what Keats meant it to be.

(2) We then compare it with his other Odes, and observe that it is (a) regular in stanza form,
(b) in spite of its outburst in the 3rd stanza--'More happy love! more happy, happy love' etc.--
much severer in tone than, e.g., the "Ode to a Nightingale" or the "Ode to Psyche," (c) that
the emotion is not luscious, but simple, (d) that this simplicity is Hellenic, so far as Keats
can compass it, and (e) eminently well-suited to its subject, which is a carven urn, gracious
but severe of outline; a moment of joy caught by the sculptor and arrested, for time to perpetuate;
yet --and this is the point of the Ode--conveying a sense that innocent gaiety is not only
its own excuse, but of human things one of the few eternal--and eternal just because it is
joyous and fleeting.

(3) Then we go back and compare this kind of quiet immortal beauty with the passionate immortality
hymned in the "Nightingale Ode"

(4) From this we proceed to examine the Ode in detail line by line: which examination brings
up a whole crowd of questions, such as

(a) We have a thought enounced in the first stanza. Does the Ode go on to develop and amplify
it, as an Ode should? Or does Pegasus come down again and again on the prints from which he
took off? If he do this, and the action of the Ode be dead and unprogressive, is the defect
covered by beauty of language? Can such defect ever be so covered?

(b) Lines 15 and 16 anticipate lines 21-24, which are saying the same thing and getting no
forwarder.

We come to the last stanza and lament 'O Attic shape! Fair attitude' for its jingle: but note
how the poet recovers himself and brings the whole to a grand close.

I have, even yet, mentioned but a few of the points. For one, I have omitted its most beautiful
vowel-play, on which teacher and pupil can dwell and learn together. And heaven forbid that
as a teacher I should insist even on half of those I have indicated. A teacher, as I hold,
should watch for what his pupil divines of his own accord; but if, trafficking with works of
inspiration, he have no gift to catch that inspiration nor power to pass it on, then I say
'Heaven help him! but he has no valid right on earth to be in the business.'

And if a teacher have all these chances of teaching--mind you, of accurate teaching--supplied
him by a single Ode of Keats, do you suppose we cannot set in an Examination paper one intelligent
question upon it, in its own lawful category?

Gentlemen, with the most scrupulous tenderness for aged and even decrepit interests, we have
been trying to liberate you from certain old bad superstitions and silently laying the stones
of a new School of English, which we believe to be worthy even of Cambridge.

Our proposals are before the University. Should they be passed, still everything will depend
on the loyalty of its teachers to the idea; and on that enthusiasm which I suppose to be the
nurse of all studies and know to be the authentic cherishing nurse of ours. We may even have
conceded too much to the letter, but we have built and built our trust on the spirit 'which
maketh alive.'

[Footnote 1: Why had he to swear this under pain of excommunication, when the lecturer could
so easily keep a roll-call? But the amount of oathtaking in a medieval University was prodigious.
Even College servants were put on oath for their duties: Gyps invited their own damnation,
bed-makers kissed the book. Abroad, where examinations were held, the Examiner swore not to
take a bribe, the Candidate neither to give one, nor, if unsuccessful, to take his vengeance
on the Examiner with a knife or other sharp instrument. At New College, Oxford, the matriculating
undergraduate was required to swear in particular not to dance in the College Chapel.]

LECTURE VI

ON A SCHOOL OF ENGLISH

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1917

I

It is now, Gentlemen, five years less a term since, feeling (as they say of other offenders)
my position acutely, I had the honour of reading an Inaugural before this University and the
impudence to loose, in the course of it, a light shaft against a phrase in the very Ordinance
defining the duties of this Chair.

'It shall be the duty of the Professor,' says the Ordinance, 'to deliver courses of lectures
on English Literature from the age of Chaucer onwards, and otherwise to promote, so far as
may be in his power, the study in the University of the subject of English Literature.'

That was the phrase at which I glanced--'the subject of English Literature'; and I propose
that we start to-day, for reasons that will appear, by subjecting this subject to some examination.

II

'The Subject of English Literature.' Surely--for a start--there is no such thing; or rather,
may we not say that everything is, has been or can be, a subject of English Literature? Man's
loss of Paradise has been a subject of English Literature, and so has been a Copper Coinage
in Ireland, and so has been Roast Sucking-pig, and so has been Holy Dying, and so has been
Mr Pepys's somewhat unholy living, and so have been Ecclesiastical Polity, The Grail, Angling
for Chub, The Wealth of Nations, The Sublime and the Beautiful, The Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire, Prize-Fights, Grecian Urns, Modern Painters, Intimations of Immortality in early
Childhood, Travels with a Donkey, Rural Rides and Rejected Addresses--all these have been subjects
of English Literature: as have been human complots and intrigues as wide asunder as "Othello"
and "The School for Scandal"; persons as different as Prometheus and Dr Johnson, Imogen and
Moll Flanders, Piers the Plowman and Mr Pickwick; places as different as Utopia and Cranford,
Laputa and Reading Gaol. "Epipsychidion" is literature: but so is "A Tale of a Tub."

Listen, for this is literature:

  If some king of the earth have so large an extent of
  dominion, in north, and south, so that he hath winter and
  summer together in his dominions, so large an extent east and
  west as that he hath day and night together in his dominions,
  much more hath God mercy and judgement together: He
  brought light out of darkness, not out of a lesser light; he
  can bring thy summer out of winter, though thou have no spring;
  though in the ways of fortune, or understanding, or
  conscience, thou have been benighted till now, wintered and
  frozen, clouded and eclipsed, damped and benumbed,
  smothered and stupefied till now, now God comes to thee,
  not as in the dawning of the day, not as in the bud of the
  spring, but as the sun at noon to illustrate all shadows, as
  the sheaves in harvest, to fill all penuries, all occasions
  invite his mercies, and all times are his seasons[1].

But listen again, for this also is literature:

  A sweet disorder in the dress
  Kindles in clothes a wantonness:
  A lawn about the shoulders thrown
  Into a fine distraction:
  An erring lace, which here and there
  Enthrals the crimson stomacher:
  A cuff neglectful, and thereby
  Ribbons to flow confusedly:
  A winning wave, deserving note,
  In the tempestuous petticoat:
  A careless shoe-string, in whose tie
  I see a wild civility:
  Do more bewitch me than when art
  Is too precise in every part.  [BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.]

Of a bridal, this is literature:

     Open the temple gates unto my love,
     Open them wide that she may enter in!

But so also is Suckling's account of a wedding that begins

     I tell thee, Dick, where I have been.

But so is this literature:

  One circle cannot touch another circle on the outside at
  more points than one.
  For, if it be possible, let the circle ACK touch the circle
  ABC at the points A, C. Join AC.
  Then because the two points A, C are in the
  circumference of the circle ACK the line which joins them
  falls within that circle.
  But the circle ACK is without the circle ABC. Therefore
  the straight line AC is without the circle ABC.
  But because the two points A, C are in the circumference of
  ABC therefore the straight line AC falls within that circle.
  Which is absurd.
  Therefore one circle cannot touch another on the outside at
  more points than one.

All thoughts, as well as all passions, all delights

     votum, timor, ira, voluptas--

whatsoever, in short, engages man's activity of soul or body, may be deemed the subject of
literature and is transformed into literature by process of recording it in memorable speech.
It is so, it has been so, and God forbid it should ever not be so!

III

Now this, put so, is (you will say) so extremely, obvious that it must needs hide a fallacy
or at best a quibble on a word. I shall try to show that it does not: that it directly opposes
plain truth to a convention accepted by the Ordinance, and that the fallacy lies in that convention.

A convention may be defined as something which a number of men have agreed to accept in lieu
of the truth and to pass off for the truth upon others: I was about to add, preferably when
they can catch them young: but some recent travel in railway trains and listening to the kind
of stuff men of mature years deliver straight out of newspapers for the products of their own
digested thought have persuaded me that the ordinary man is as susceptible at fifty, sixty,
or even seventy as at any earlier period of growth, and that the process of incubation is scarcely
less rapid.

I am not, to be sure, concerned to deny that there may be conventions useful enough to society,
serving it to maintain government, order, public and private decency, or the commerce on which
it must needs rest to be a civilised society at all-- commerce of food, commerce of clothing,
and so on, up to commerce in knowledge and ideas. Government itself--any form of it--is a convention;
marriage is a convention; money of course is a convention, and the alphabet itself I suppose
to contain as many conventions as all the old Courts of Love and Laws of Chivalry put together,
and our English alphabet one tremendous fallacy, that twenty-six letters, separately or in
combination are capable of symbolising all the sounds produced by an Englishman's organs of
speech, let alone the sounds he hears from foreigners, dogs, guns, steam-engines, motor-horns
and other friends and enemies to whom we deny the franchise. Also of course it ignores the
whole system of musical notes--another convention--which yet with many of the older bards could
hardly be separated from the words they used, though now only the words survive and as literature.

IV

But every convention has a fallacy somewhere at the root; whether it be useful and operative,
as many a legal fiction is operative, for good; or senile, past service yet tyrannous by custom,
and so pernicious; or merely foolish, as certain artistic conventions are traceable, when a
Ruskin comes to judgment, back to nothing better than folly: and it becomes men of honest mind,
in dealing with anything recognisable as a convention, to examine its accepted fallacy, whether
it be well understood or ill understood; beneficent or pernicious or merely foolish or both
foolish and pernicious: and this is often most handily done by tracing its history.

Now I shall assume that the framers of the Ordinance regulating the duties of this Chair knew
well enough, of their own reading, that English Literature deals with a vast variety of subjects:
and that, if any piece of writing miss to deal with its particular subject, so closely that
theme and treatment can scarcely be separated, by so much will it be faulty as literature.
Milton is fairly possessed with the story of Man's fall, Boswell possessed with Johnson, Shelley
with hatred of tyranny in all its manifestations, Mill again with the idea of Liberty: and
it is only because we had knowledge presented to us at an age when we thought more attentively
of apples, that we still fail to recognise in Euclid and Dr Todhunter two writers who are excellent
because possessed with a passion for Geometry.

I infer, then, that the framers of the Ordinance, when they employed this phrase 'the study
of the subject of English Literature,' knew well enough that no such thing existed in nature,
but adopted the convention that English Literature could be separated somehow from its content
and treated as a subject all by itself, for teaching purposes: and, for purposes of examination,
could be yoked up with another subject called English Language, as other Universities had yoked it.

V

I believe the following to be a fair account of how these examinations in English Language
and Literature came to pass, and how a certain kind of student came to pass these Examinations.
At any rate since the small revolution has happened in my life-time and most of it since I
was able to observe, the account here is drawn from my own observation and may be checked and
corrected by yours.

Thirty-five or forty years ago--say in the late seventies or early eighties--some preparatory
schools, and others that taught older boys but ranked below the great Public Schools in repute,
taught so much of English Literature as might be comprised, at a rough calculation, in two
or three plays of Shakespeare, edited by Clark and Aldis Wright; a few of Bacon's Essays, Milton's
early poems, Stopford Brooke's little primer, a book of extracts for committal to memory, with
perhaps Chaucer's "Prologue" and a Speech of Burke. In the great Public Schools no English
Literature was studied, save in those which had invented 'Modern Sides,' to prepare boys specially
for Woolwich or Sandhurst or the Indian Civil Service; for entrance to which examinations were
held on certain prescribed English Classics, and marks mainly given for acquaintance with the
editors' notes.

In the Universities, the study of English Classics was not officially recognised at all.

Let us not hastily suppose that this neglect of English rested wholly on unreason, or had nothing
to say for itself. Teachers and tutors of the old Classical Education (as it was called) could
plead as follows:

  'In the first place,' they would say, 'English Literature is
  too easy a study. Our youth, at School or University, starts
  on his native classics with a liability which in any foreign
  language he has painfully to acquire. The voices that
  murmured around his cradle, the voice of his nurse, of his
  governess, of the parson on Sundays; the voices of village
  boys, stablemen, gamekeepers and farmers--friendly or
  unfriendly--of callers, acquaintances, of the children he met
  at Children's Parties; the voices that at the dinner-table
  poured politics or local gossip into the little pitcher with
  long ears--all these were English voices speaking in English:
  and all these were all the while insensibly leading him up the
  slope from the summit of which he can survey the promised
  land spread at his feet as a wide park; and he holds the key of
  the gates, to enter and take possession. Whereas,' the old
  instructors would continue, 'with the classics of any foreign
  language we take him at the foot of the steep ascent, spread a
  table before him (mensa, mensa, mensam ...) and coax or drive
  him up with variations upon amo, "I love" or [Greek: tupto],
  "I beat," until he, too, reaches the summit and beholds the
  landscape:

     But O, what labour!
     O Prince, what pain!'

Now so much of truth, Gentlemen, as this plea contains was admitted last term by your Senate,
in separating the English Tripos, in which a certain linguistic familiarity may be not rashly
presumed of the student, from the Foreign Language Triposes, divided into two parts, of which
the first will more suspiciously test his capacity to construe the books he professes to have
studied. I may return to this and to the alleged easiness of studies in a School of English.
Let us proceed just now with the reasoned plea for neglect.

These admirable old schoolmasters and dons would have hesitated, maybe, to say flatly with
Dogberry that 'to write and read comes by nature ... and for your writing and reading, let
that appear when there is no need of such vanity.' But in practice their system so worked,
and in some of the Public Schools so works to this day. Let me tell you that just before the
war an undergraduate came to me from the Sixth Form of one of the best reputed among these
great schools. He wished to learn to write. He wished (poor fellow) to write me an essay, if
I would set him a subject. He had never written an essay at school. 'Indeed,' said I, 'and
there is no reason why you should, if by "essay" you mean some little treatise about "Patriotism"
or "A Day in the Country." I will choose you no such subject nor any other upon any book which
you have never read. Tell me, what is your Tripos?' He said 'the History Tripos.' 'Then,' said
I, 'since History provides quite a large number of themes, choose one and I will try to correct
your treatment of it, without offence to your opinions or prejudice to your facts.' 'But,'
he confessed, 'at So-and-so'--naming the great Public School--'we never wrote out an account
of anything, or set down our opinions on anything, to be corrected. We just construed and did
sums: And when he brought me his first attempt, behold, it was so. He could not construct a
simple sentence, let alone putting two sentences together; while, as for a paragraph, it lay
beyond his farthest horizon. In short, here was an instance ready to hand for any cheap writer
engaged to decry the old Classical Education.

What would the old schoolmasters plead in excuse? Why this, as I suggest--'You cite an extreme
instance. But, while granting English Literature to be great, we would point out that an overwhelming
majority of our best writers have modelled their prose and verse upon the Greek and Roman classics,
either directly or through tradition. Now we have our own language gratis, so to speak. Let
us spend our pains, then, in acquiring Latin and Greek, and the tradition. So shall we most
intimately enjoy our own authors; and so, if we wish to write, we shall have at hand the clues
they followed, the models they used.'

Now I have as you know, Gentlemen, a certain sympathy with this plea, or with a part of it:
nor can so much of truth as its argument contains be silenced by a 'What about Shakespeare?'
or a 'What about Bunyan?' or a 'What about Burns?' I believe our imaginary pleader for the
Classics could put up a stout defence upon any of those names. To choose the forlornest hope
of the three, I can hear him demonstrating, to his own satisfaction if not to yours, that Bunyan
took his style straight out of the Authorised Version of our Bible; which is to say that he
took it from the styles of forty-seven scholars, plus Tyndale's, plus Coverdale's, plus Cranmer's--the
scholarship of fifty scholars expressed and blended.

But, as a theory, the strict classical argument gives itself away, as well by its intolerance
as by its obvious distrust of the genius of our own wonderful language. I have in these five
years, and from this place, Gentlemen, counselled you to seek back ever to those Mediterranean
sources which are the well-heads of our civilisation: but always (I hope) on the understanding
that you use them with a large liberty. They are effete for us unless we add and mingle freely
the juice of our own natural genius.

And in practice the strict classical theory, with its implied contempt of English, has been
disastrous: disastrous not only with the ordinary man--as with my Sixth Form boy who could
not put two sentences together, and had read no English authors; but disastrous even to highly
eminent scholars. Listen, pray, to this passage from one of them, Frederick Paley, who condescended
(Heaven knows why) to turn the majestic verse of Pindar into English Prose--

From the VIIIth Isthmian:

  And now that we are returned from great sorrows, let us
  not fall into a dearth of victories, nor foster griefs; but as
  we have ceased from our tiresome troubles, we will publicly
  indulge in a sweet roundelay.

From the IVth Pythian:

  It had been divinely predicted to Pelias, that he should die
  by the doughty sons of Aeolus and an alarming oracle had come
  to his wary mind, delivered at the central point of tree-clad
  mother-earth, 'that he must by all means hold in great caution
  the man with one shoe, when he shall have come from a homestead
  on the hills.'

  And he accordingly came in due time, armed with two spears,
  a magnificent man. The dress he wore was of a double kind,
  the national costume of the Magnesians.... Nor as yet had
  the glossy clusters of his hair been clipped away, but
  dangled brightly adown his back.

  Forward he went at once and took his stand among the
  people.... Him then they failed to recognise: but some of the
  reverent-minded went so far as to say, 'Surely this cannot be
  Apollo!'

It needs no comment, I think. Surely this cannot be Apollo!

Frederick Paley flourished--if the word be not exorbitant for so demure a writer--in the middle
of the last century (he was born in the year of Waterloo and died in the year after Queen Victoria's
first jubilee). Well, in that period there grew up a race of pioneers who saw that English
Literature--that proud park and rolling estate--lay a tangled, neglected wilderness for its
inheritors, and set themselves bravely to clear broad ways through it. Furnivall and Skeat,
Aldis Wright, Clark, Grosart, Arber, Earle, Hales, Morris, Ellis and the rest--who can rehearse
these names now but in deepest respect? Oh, believe me, Gentlemen! they were wonderful fighters
in a cause that at first seemed hopeless. If I presume to speak of foibles to-day, you will
understand that I do so because, lightly though I may talk to you at times, I have a real sense
of the responsibilities of this Chair. I worship great learning, which they had: I loathe flippant
detraction of what is great; I have usually a heart for men-against-odds and the unpopular
cause. But these very valiant fighters had, one and all, some very obvious foibles: and because,
in the hour of success, these foibles came to infect the whole teaching of English in this
country, and to infect it fatally for many years, I shall dare to point them out.

VI

(a) To begin with, then, these valiant fighters, intent on pushing their cause to the front,
kept no sense of proportion. All their geese were swans, and "Beowulf" a second "Iliad." I
think it scarcely too much to say that, of these men, all so staunch in fighting for the claims
of English Literature, not one (with the exception of Dr Hales) appears to have had any critical
judgment whatever, apart from the rhyme, verse and inflectional tests on which they bestowed
their truly priceless industry. Criticism, as Sainte-Beuve, Matthew Arnold or Pater understood
and practised it, they merely misprized.

(b) I think it was of true scholarly desire to vindicate English Literature from the charge
of being 'too easy,' that--as their studies advanced--they laid more and more stress on Middle-English
and Old English writings than on what our nations of England and Scotland have written since
they learned to write. I dare to think also that we may attribute to this dread of 'easiness'
their practice of cumbering simple texts with philological notes; on which, rather than on
the text, we unhappy students were carefully examined. For an example supplied to Dr Corson--I
take those three lines of Cowper's "Task" (Bk I, 86-88):

     Thus first necessity invented stools,
     Convenience next suggested elbow-chairs,
     And luxury th' accomplish'd SOFA last.

Now in these three lines the word 'accomplish'd' is the only one that needs even the smallest
explanation. 'But,' says Dr Corson, 'in two different editions of "The Task" in my library,
prepared for the use of the young, no explanation is given of it, but in both the Arabic origin
of 'sofa' is given. In one the question is asked what other words in English have been derived
from the Arabic.' ('Abracadabra' would be my little contribution.)

(c) These valiant fighters--having to extol what Europe had, wrongly enough, forgotten to count
among valuable things--turned aggressively provincial, parted their beards in the Anglo-Saxon
fashion; composed long sentences painfully innocent of any word not derivable from Anglo-Saxon,
sentences in which the 'impenetrability of matter' became the 'un-go-throughsomeness of stuff
(but that may have happened in a parody), and in general comported themselves like the Anglo-Saxons
they claimed for their forbears; rightly enough for anything anyone cared, but wrongly enough
for the rest of us who had no yearning toward that kinship and went on spelling Alfred with an A.

(d) They were--I suppose through opposition--extremely irascible men; like farmers. Urbanity
was the last note in their gamut, the City--urbs quam dicunt Romam--the last of places in their
ken. There was no engaging them in dialectic, an Athenian art which they frankly despised.
If you happened to disagree with them, their answer was a sturdy Anglo-Saxon brick. If you
politely asked your way to Puddlehampton, and to be directed to Puddlehampton's main objects
of interest, the answer you would get (see "Notes and Queries" passim) would be, 'Who is this
that comes out of Nowhere, enquiring for Puddlehampton, unacquainted with Stubbs? Is it possible
at this time of day that the world can contain anyone ignorant of the published Transactions
of the Wiltshire Walking Club, Vol. III, p. 159--"Puddlehampton, its Rise and Decline, with
a note on Vespasian?"'

(e) These pioneers--pushing the importance of English, but occupied more and more with origins
and with bad authors, simply could not see the vital truth; that English Literature is a continuing
thing, ten times more alive to-day than it was in the times they studied and belauded. The
last word upon them is that not a man of them could write prose in the language they thrust
on our study. To them, far more than to the old classical scholars, English was a shut book:
a large book, but closed and clasped, material to heighten a desk for schoolmasters and schoolmistresses.

But schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, like chickens and curses, come home to roost. Once
set up your plea for a Tripos of English Language and Literature on the lower plea that it
will provide for what they call a 'felt want,' and sooner or later you give English Language
and Literature into their hands, and then you get the fallacy full-flowered into a convention.
English Literature henceforth is a 'subject,' divorced from life: and what they have made of
it, let a thousand handbooks and so-called histories attest. But this world is not a wilderness
of class-rooms. English Language? They cannot write it, at all events. They do not (so far
as I can discover) try to write it. They talk and write about it; how the poor deceased thing
outgrew infantile ailments, how it was operated on for umlaut, how it parted with its vermiform
appendix and its inflexions one by one, and lost its vowel endings in muted e's.

     And they went and told the sexton,
     And the sexton toll'd the bell.

But when it comes to writing; to keeping bright the noble weapon of English, testing its poise
and edge, feeling the grip, handing it to their pupils with the word, 'Here is the sword of
your fathers, that has cloven dragons. So use it, that we who have kept it bright may be proud
of you, and of our pains, and of its continuing valiance':--why, as I say, they do not even
try. Our unprofessional forefathers, when they put pen to paper, did attempt English prose,
and not seldom achieved it. But take up any elaborate History of English Literature and read,
and, as you read, ask yourselves, 'How can one of the rarest delights of life be converted
into this? What has happened to merry Chaucer, rare Ben Jonson, gay Steele and Prior, to Goldsmith,
Jane Austen, Charles Lamb?'

     All, all are gone, the old familiar faces!

gone into the professional stock-pot!

VII

But I say to you that Literature is not, and should not be, the preserve of any priesthood.
To write English, so as to make Literature, may be hard. But English Literature is not a mystery,
not a Professors' Kitchen.

And the trouble lies, not in the harm professionising does to schoolmasters and schoolmistresses,
but in the harm it does 'in widest commonalty spread' among men and women who, as Literature
was written for them, addressed to them, ought to find in it, all their lives through, a retirement
from mean occupations, a well of refreshment, sustainment in the daily drudgery of life, solace
in calamity, an inmate by the hearth, ever sociable, never intrusive--to be sought and found,
to be found and dropped at will:

     Men, when their affairs require,
     Must themselves at whiles retire;
     Sometimes hunt, and sometimes hawk,
     And not ever sit and talk--

to be dropped at will and left without any answering growl of moroseness; to be consulted again
at will and found friendly.

For this is the trouble of professionising Literature. We exile it from the business of life,
in which it would ever be at our shoulder, to befriend us. Listen, for example, to an extract
from a letter written, a couple of weeks ago, by somebody in the Charity Commission:

  Sir,
  With reference to previous correspondence in this matter, I
  am to say that in all the circumstances of this case the
  Commissioners are of the opinion that it would be desirable
  that a public enquiry in connection with the Charity should
  be held in the locality.

And the man--very likely an educated man--having written that, very likely went home and read
Chaucer, Dante, or Shakespeare, or Burke for pleasure! That is what happens when you treat
literature as a 'subject,' separable from life and daily practice.

VIII

I declare to you that Literature was not written for schoolmasters, nor for schoolmistresses.
I would not exchange it for a wilderness of schoolmasters. It should be delivered from them,
who, with their silly Ablauts and 'tendencies,' can themselves neither read nor write. For
the proof? Having the world's quintessential store of mirth and sharp sorrow, wit, humour,
comfort, farce, comedy, tragedy, satire; the glories of our birth and state, piled all at their
elbows, only one man of the crowd--and he M. Jusserand, a Frenchman--has contrived to draw
out of the mass one interesting well-written history of the 'subject.'

IX

Is there, then, no better way? Yes there is a better way: for the French have it, with their
language and literature. In France, as Matthew Arnold noted, a generation ago, the ordinary
journey-man work of literature is done far better and more conscientiously than with us. In
France a man feels it almost a personal stain, an unpatriotic lâche, to write even on a police-order
anything so derogatory to the tradition of his language as our Cabinet Ministers read out as
answers to our House of Commons. I am told that many a Maire in a small provincial town in
N.E. France, even when overwhelmed--accablé--with the sufferings of his town-folk, has truly
felt the iron enter into his soul on being forced to sign a document written out for him in
the invaders' French.

Cannot we treat our noble inheritance of literature and language as scrupulously, and with
as high a sense of their appertaining to our national honour, as a Frenchman cherishes his
language, his literature? Cannot we study to leave our inheritance---as the old Athenian put
it temperately, 'not worse but a little better than we found it'?

I think we can, and should. I shall close to-day, Gentlemen, with the most modest of perorations.
In my first lecture before you, in January 1913, I quoted to you the artist in "Don Quixote"
who, being asked what animal he was painting, answered diffidently 'That is as it may turn out.'

The teaching of our language and literature is, after all, a new thing and still experimental.
The main tenets of those who, aware of this, have worked on the scheme for a School of English
in Cambridge, the scheme recently passed by your Senate and henceforth to be in operation,
are three:--

The first. That literature cannot be divorced from life: that (for example) you cannot understand
Chaucer aright, unless you have the background, unless you know the kind of men for whom Chaucer
wrote and the kind of men whom he made speak; that is the national side with which all our
literature is concerned.

The second. Literature being so personal a thing, you cannot understand it until you have some
personal under-standing of the men who wrote it. Donne is Donne; Swift, Swift; Pope, Pope;
Johnson, Johnson; Goldsmith, Goldsmith; Charles Lamb, Charles Lamb; Carlyle, Carlyle. Until
you have grasped those men, as men, you cannot grasp their writings. That is the personal side
of literary study, and as necessary as the other.

The third. That the writing and speaking of English is a living art, to be practised and (if
it may be) improved. That what these great men have done is to hand us a grand patrimony; that
they lived to support us through the trial we are now enduring, and to carry us through to
great days to come. So shall our sons, now fighting in France, have a language ready for the
land they shall recreate and repeople.

[Footnote 1: Donne's Sermon II preached at Pauls upon Christmas Day, in the Evening. 1624.]

LECTURE VII

THE VALUE OF GREEK AND LATIN IN ENGLISH LITERATURE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1918

I

I have promised you, Gentlemen, for to-day some observations on The Value of Greek and Latin
in English Literature: a mild, academic title, a camouflage title, so to say; calculated to
shelter us for a while from the vigilance of those hot-eyed reformers who, had I advertised
The Value of Greek and Latin in English Life might even now be swooping from all quarters of
the sky on a suggestion that these dry bones yet were flesh: for the eyes I dread are not only
red and angry, but naturally microscopic--and that indeed, if they only knew it, is their malady.
Yet 'surely' groaned patient job, 'there is a path which the vulture's eye hath not seen!'

You, at any rate, know by this time that wherever these lectures assert literature they assert
life, perhaps even too passionately, allowing neither the fact of death nor the possibility
of divorce.

II

But let us begin with the first word, 'Value'--'The Value of Greek and Latin in English Literature.'
What do I mean by 'Value'? Well, I use it, generally, in the sense of 'worth'; but with a particular
meaning, or shade of meaning, too. And, this particular meaning is not the particular meaning
intended (as I suppose) by men of commerce who, on news of a friend's death, fall a-musing
and continue musing until the fire kindles, and they ask 'What did So-and-so die worth?' or
sometimes, more wisely than they know, 'What did poor old So-and-so die worth?' or again, more
colloquially, 'What did So-and-so "cut up" for?' Neither is it that which more disinterested
economists used to teach; men never (I fear me) loved, but anyhow lost awhile, who for my green
unknowing youth, at Thebes or Athens--growing older I tend to forget which is, or was, which--defined
the Value of a thing as its 'purchasing power' which the market translates into 'price.' For--to
borrow a phrase which I happened on, the other day, with delight, in the Introduction to a
translation of Lucian--there may be forms of education less paying than the commercial and
yet better worth paying for; nay, above payment or computation in price[1].

No: the particular meaning I use to-day is that which artists use when they talk of painting
or of music. To see things, near or far, in their true perspective and proportions; to judge
them through distance; and fetching them back, to reproduce them in art so proportioned comparatively,
so rightly adjusted, that they combine to make a particular and just perspective: that is to
give things their true Values.

Suppose yourself reclining on a bank on a clear day, looking up into the sky and watching the
ascent of a skylark while you listen to his song. That is a posture in which several poets
of repute have placed themselves from time to time: so we need not be ashamed of it. Well,
you see the atmosphere reaching up and up, mile upon mile. There are no milestones planted
there. But, wave on wave perceptible, the atmosphere stretches up through indeterminate distances;
and according as your painter of the sky can translate these distances, he gives his sky what
is called Value.

You listen to the skylark's note rising, spiral by spiral, on 'the very jet of earth':

  As up he wings the spiral stair,
     A song of light, and pierces air
  With fountain ardour, fountain play,
     To reach the shining tops of day:

and you long for the musical gift to follow up and up the delicate degrees of distance and
thread the notes back as the bird ascending drops them--on a thread, as it were, of graduated
beads, half music and half dew:

     That was the chirp of Ariel
     You heard, as overhead it flew,
     The farther going more to dwell
     And wing our green to wed our blue;
     But whether note of joy, or knell,
     Not his own Father-singer knew;
     Nor yet can any mortal tell,
     Save only how it shivers through;
     The breast of us a sounded shell,
     The blood of us a lighted dew.

Well in music, in painting, this graduating which gives right proportion and, with proportion,
a sense of distance, of atmosphere, is called Value. Let us, for a minute or two, assay this
particular meaning of Value upon life and literature, and first upon life, or, rather upon
one not negligible facet of life.

I suppose that if an ordinary man of my age were asked which has better helped him to bear
the burs of life--religion or a sense of humour--he would, were he quite honest, be gravelled
for an answer. Now the best part of a sense of humour, as you know without my telling you,
consists in a sense of proportion; a habit, abiding and prompt at command, of seeing all human,
affairs in their just perspective, so that its happy possessor at once perceives anything odd
or distorted or overblown to be an excrescence, a protuberance, a swelling, literally a humour:
and the function of Thalia, the Comic Spirit, as you may read in Meredith's "Essay on Comedy,"
is just to prick these humours. I will but refer you to Meredith's "Essay," and here cite you
the words of an old schoolmaster:

It would seem to be characteristic of the same mind to appreciate the beauty of ideas in just
proportion and harmonious relation to each other, and the absurdity of the same ideas when
distorted or brought into incongruous juxtaposition. The exercise of this sense of humour ...
compels the mind to form a picture to itself, accompanied by pleasurable emotion; and what
is this but setting the imagination to work, though in topsy-turvy fashion? Nay, in such a
case, imagination plays a double part, since it is only by instantaneous comparison with ideal
fitness and proportion that it can grasp at full force the grotesqueness of their contraries[2].

Let us play with an example for one moment. A child sees such an excrescence, such an offence
upon proportion, in an immoderately long nose. He is apt to call attention to it on the visage
of a visitor: it intrigues him in Perrault's 'Prince Charming' and many a fairy tale: it amuses
him in Lear's "Book of Nonsense":

     There was an old man with a Nose,
     Who said 'If you choose to suppose
     That my nose is too long
     You are certainly wrong'--

This old man he detects as lacking sense of proportion, sense of humour. Pass from the child
to the working-man as we know him. A few weeks ago, a lady--featured, as to nose, on the side
of excess--was addressing a North Country audience on the Economic Position of Women after
the War. Said she, 'There won't be men to go round.' Said a voice 'Eh, but they'll have to,
Miss!' Pass from this rudimentary criticism to high talent employed on the same subject, and
you get "Cyrano de Bergerac." Pass to genius, to Milton, and you find the elephant amusing
Adam and Eve in Paradise, and doing his best:

     the unwieldy elephant,
  To make them mirth, used all his might, and wreathed
  His lithe proboscis.

Milton, like the elephant, jokes with difficulty, but he, too, is using all his might.

I have illustrated, crudely enough, how a sense of things in their right values will help us
on one side of our dealings with life. But truly it helps us on every side. This was what Plato
meant when he said that a philosopher must see things as they relatively are within his horizon--[Greek:
o synoptikos dialektikos]. And for this it was that an English poet praised Sophocles as one

     Who saw life steadily, and saw it whole.

And this of course is what Dean Inge meant when, the other day, in a volume of "Cambridge Essays
on Education," he reminded us, for a sensible commonplace, that 'The wise man is he who knows
the relative values of things.'

IV

Applying this to literature, I note, but shall not insist here on the fact--though fact it
is--that the Greek and Roman 'classical' writers (as we call them) laid more stress than has
ever been laid among the subsequent tribes of men upon the desirability of getting all things
into proportion, of seeing all life on a scale of relative values. And the reason I shall not
insist on this is simply that better men have saved me the trouble.

I propose this morning to discuss the value of the classics to students of English literature
from, as the modern phrase goes, a slightly different angle.

Reclining and looking up into that sky which is not too grandiose an image for our own English
Literature, you would certainly not wish, Gentlemen, to see it as what it is not--as a cloth
painted on the flat. No more than you would choose the sky overarching your life to be a close,
hard, copper vault, would you choose this literature of ours to resemble such a prison. I say
nothing, for the moment, of the thrill of comparing ours with other constellations--of such
a thrill as Blanco White's famous sonnet imagines in Adam's soul when the first night descended
on Eden and

  Hesperus with the host of heaven came,
  And lo! Creation widen'd in man's view.
  Who could have thought such darkness lay conceal'd
  Within thy beams, O sun!...

No: I simply picture you as desiring to realise our own literature, its depths and values,
mile above mile deeper and deeper shining, with perchance a glimpse of a city celestial beyond,
or at whiles, on a ladder of values, of the angels--the messengers--climbing and returning.

V

Well, now, I put it to you that without mental breeding, without at least some sense of ancestry,
an Englishman can hardly have this perception of value, this vision. I put to you what I posited
in an earlier course of lectures, quoting Bagehot, that while a knowledge of Greek and Latin
is not necessary to a writer of English, he should at least have a firm conviction that those
two languages existed. I refer you to a long passage which, in one of those lectures, I quoted
from Cardinal Newman to the effect that for the last 3000 years the Western World has been
evolving a human society, having its bond in a common civilisation--a society to which (let
me add, by way of footnote) Prussia today is firmly, though with great difficulty, being tamed.

But I must refer you to his famous book "The Idea of a University" to read at length how Newman,
in that sinuous, sinewy, Platonic style of his, works it out--the spread, through Rome, even
to our shores, of the civilisation which began in Palestine and Greece.

VI

I would press the point more rudely upon you, and more particularly, than does Newman. And
first, for Latin--

I waive that Rome occupied and dominated this island during 400 years. Let that be as though
it had never been. For a further 1000 years and more Latin remained the common speech of educated
men throughout Europe: the 'Universal Language.' Greek had been smothered by the Turk. Through
all that time--through the most of what we call Modern History, Latin reigned everywhere. Is
this a fact to be ignored by any of you who would value 'values'?

Here are a few particulars, by way of illustration. More wrote his "Utopia," Bacon wrote all
the bulk of his philosophical work, in Latin; Newton wrote his "Principia" in Latin. Keble's
Lectures on Poetry (if their worth and the name of Keble may together save me from bathos)
were delivered in Latin. Our Vice-Chancellor, our Public Orator still talk Latin, securing
for it what attention they can: nor have

     The bigots of this iron time
     Yet call'd their harmless art a crime.

But there is a better reason why you should endeavour to understand the value of Latin in our
literature; a filial reason. Our fathers built their great English prose, as they built their
oratory, upon the Latin model. Donne used it to construct his mighty fugues: Burke to discipline
his luxuriance. Says Cowper, it were

     Praise enough for any private man,
     That Chatham's language was his mother tongue,
     And Wolfe's great name compatriot with his own.

Well then, here is a specimen of Chatham's language: from his speech, Romanly severe, denouncing
the Government of the day for employing Red Indians in the American War of Independence.

That was Chatham. For Wolfe--he, as you know, was ever reading the classics even on campaign:
as Burke again carried always a Virgil in his pocket. Abeunt studia in mores. Moreover can
we separate Chatham's Roman morality from Chatham's language in the passage I have just read?
No: we cannot. No one, being evil, can speak good things with that weight; 'for out of the
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.' We English (says Wordsworth)

     We must be free or die, who speak the tongue
     That Shakespeare spake....

You may criticise Chatham's style as too consciously Ciceronian. But has ever a Parliamentary
style been invented which conveys a nobler gravity of emotion? `Buskined'?--yes: but the style
of a man. 'Mannered'?--yes, but in the grand manner. 'Conscious'?-- yes, but of what? Conscious
of the dignity a great man owes to himself, and to the assembly he addresses. He conceives
that assembly as 'the British Senate'; and, assuming, he communicates that high conception.
The Lords feel that they are listening as Senators, since it is only thus a Senate should be
addressed, as nothing less than a Senate should be addressed thus.

Let me read you a second passage; of written prose:

  Laodameia died; Helen died; Leda, the beloved of Jupiter,
  went before. It is better to repose in the earth betimes than
  to sit up late; better, than to cling pertinaciously to what
  we feel crumbling under us, and to protract an inevitable
  fall. We may enjoy the present while we are insensible of
  infirmity and decay: but the present, like a note in music,
  is nothing but as it appertains to what is past and what is
  to come. There are no fields of amaranth on this aide of the
  grave; there are no voices, O Rhodopè! that are not soon mute,
  however tuneful; there is no name, with whatever emphasis of
  passionate love repeated, of which the echo is not faint at
  last[3].

Latin--all Latin--down to its exquisite falling close! And I say to you, Gentlemen, that passages
such as these deserve what Joubert claimed of national monuments, Ce sont les crampons qui
unissent une génération à une autre. Conservez ce qu'ont vu vos pères, 'These are the clamps
that knit one generation to another. Cherish those things on which your fathers' eyes have looked.'

Abeunt studia in mores.

If, years ago, there had lacked anything to sharpen my suspicion of those fork-bearded professors
who derived our prose from the stucco of Anglo-Saxon prose, it would have been their foolish
deliberate practice of composing whole pages of English prose without using one word derivative
from Latin or Greek. Esau, when he sold his birthright, had the excuse of being famished. These
pedants, with a full board, sought frenetically to give it away-- board and birthright.

VII

What, in the next place, can I say of Greek, save that, as Latin gave our fathers the model
of prose, Greek was the source of it all, the goddess and genius of the well-head? And, casting
about to illustrate, as well as may be, what I mean by this, I hit on a minor dialogue of Plato,
the "Phaedrus," and choose you a short passage in Edward FitzGerald's rendering:

  When Socrates and Phaedrus have discoursed away the noon-day
  under the plane trees by the Ilissus, they rise to depart
  toward the city. But Socrates (pointing perhaps to some images
  of Pan and other sylvan deities) says it is not decent to leave
  their haunts without praying to them, and he prays:

  'O auspicious Pan, and ye other deities of this place, grant to
  me to become beautiful inwardly, and that all my outward
  goods may prosper my inner soul. Grant that I may esteem wisdom
  the only riches, and that I may have so much gold as temperance
  can handsomely carry.

  'Have we yet aught else to pray for, Phaedrus? For myself I
  seem to have prayed enough.'

  Phaedrus: 'Pray as much for me also: for friends have all
  in common.'

  Socrates: 'Even so be it. Let us depart'

To this paternoster of Socrates, reported more than four centuries before Christ taught the
Lord's Prayer, let me add an attempted translation of the lines that close Homer's hymn to
the Delian Apollo. Imagine the old blind poet on the beach chanting to the islanders the glorious
boast of the little island--how it of all lands had harboured Leto in her difficult travail;
how she gave birth to the Sun God; how the immortal child, as the attendant goddesses touched
his lips with ambrosia, burst his swaddling bands and stood up, sudden, a god erect:

  But he, the Sun-God, did no sooner taste
  That food divine than every swaddling band
     Burst strand by strand,
  And burst the belt above his panting waist--
     All hanging loose
  About him as he stood and gave command:
  'Fetch me my lyre, fetch me my curving bow!
  And, taught by these, shall know
  All men, through me, the unfaltering will of Zeus!'
  So spake the unshorn God, the Archer bold,
  And turn'd to tread the ways of Earth so wide;
  While they, all they, had marvel to behold
     How Delos broke in gold
  Beneath his feet, as on a mountain-side
  Sudden, in Spring, a tree is glorified
  And canopied with blossoms manifold.
  But he went swinging with a careless stride,
  Proud, in his new artillery bedight,
  Up rocky Cynthus, and the isles descried--
  All his, and their inhabitants--for wide,
  Wide as he roam'd, ran these in rivalry
  To build him temples in many groves:
  And these be his, and all the isles he loves,
     And every foreland height,
  And every river hurrying to the sea.
     But chief in thee,
  Delos, as first it was, is his delight.
  Where the long-robed Ionians, each with mate
  And children, pious to his altar throng,
     And, decent, celebrate
  His birth with boxing-match and dance and song:
  So that a stranger, happening them among,
  Would deem that these Ionians have no date,
  Being ageless, all so met;
     And he should gaze
     And marvel at their ways,
  Health, wealth, the comely face
  On man and woman--envying their estate--
     And yet
  You shall he least be able to forget,
  You maids of Delos, dear ones, as ye raise
  The hymn to Phoebus, Leto, Artemis,
     In triune praise,
  Then slide your song back upon ancient days
  And men whose very name forgotten is.,
  And women who have lived and gone their ways:
  And make them live agen,
  Charming the tribes of men,
  Whose speech ye mock with pretty mimicries
     So true
     They almost woo
  The hearer to believe he's singing too!
  Speed me, Apollo: speed me, Artemis!
  And you, my dears, farewell! Remember me
  Hereafter if, from any land that is,
  Some traveller question ye--
  'Maidens, who was the sweetest man of speech
  Fared hither, ever chanted on this beach?'
     I you beseech
  Make answer to him, civilly--
  'Sir, he was just a blind man, and his home
  In rocky Chios. But his songs were best,
  And shall be ever in the days to come.'
  Say that: and as I quest
  In fair wall'd cities far, I'll tell them there
     (They'll list, for 'twill be true)
     Of Delos and of you.
  But chief and evermore my song shall be
  Of Prince Apollo, lord of Archery.
  God of the Silver Bow, whom Leto bare--
     Leto, the lovely-tress'd.

Did time permit, I might quote you a chorus of Aeschylus, a passage from Thucydides or from
Aristotle, to illustrate Gibbon's saying that the Greek language 'gave a soul to the objects
of sense, and a body to the abstractions of metaphysics.' But there it is, and it has haunted
our literature; at first filtering through Latin, at length breaking from Constantinople in
flood and led to us, to Oxford and Cambridge, by Erasmus, by Grocyn:

     Thee, that lord of splendid lore
     Orient from old Hellas' shore.

To have a sense of Greek, too, is to own a corrective of taste. I quote another old schoolmaster
here--a dead friend, Sidney Irwin:

  What the Greeks disliked was extravagance, caprice,
  boastfulness, and display of all kinds.... The Greeks hated all
  monsters. The quaint phrase in the "Odyssey" about the Queen
  of the Laestrygones--'She was tall as a mountain, and they
  hated her'--would have seemed to them most reasonable....
  To read Greek is to have a perpetual witness to the virtue
  of pruning--of condensing--a perpetual protest against all
  that crowds, and swells, and weakens the writer's purpose.
  To forget this is but to 'confound our skill in covetousness.'
  We cannot all be writers ... but we all wish to have good
  taste, and good taste is born of a generous caution about
  letting oneself go. I say generous, for caution is seldom
  generous--but it is a generous mood which is in no haste to
  assert itself. To consider the thing, the time, the place, the
  person, and to take yourself and your own feelings only fifth
  is to be armour-proof against bad taste.

VIII

They tell us that Greek is going, here. Well, I hold no brief for compulsory Greek; and I shall
say but one word on it. I put it, rather idly, to a vote in a Cambridge Combination Room, the
other day, and was amazed to find how the votes were divided. The men of science were by no
means unanimous. They owned that there was much to be said even for compulsory Greek, if only
Greek had been intelligently taught. And with that, of course, I agree: for to learn Greek
is, after all, a baptism into a noble cult. The Romans knew that. I believe that, even yet,
if the schools would rebuild their instruction in Greek so as to make it interesting, as it
ought to be, from the first, we should oust those birds who croak and chatter upon the walls
of our old Universities. I find the following in FitzGerald's "Polonius":

  An old ruinous tower which had harboured innumerable
  jackdaws, sparrows, and bats, was at length repaired. When
  the masons left it, the jackdaws, sparrows, and bats came back
  in search of their old dwellings. But these were all filled up.
  'Of what use now is this great building?' said they, 'come let
  us forsake this useless stone-heap:

And the beauty of this little apologue is that you can read it either way.

IX

But, although a student of English Literature be ignorant of Greek and Latin as languages,
may he not have Greek and Latin literature widely opened to him by intelligent translations?
The question has often been asked, but I ask it again. May not some translations open a door
to him by which he can see them through an atmosphere, and in that atmosphere the authentic
ancient gods walking: so that returning upon English literature he may recognise them there,
too, walking and talking in a garden of values? The highest poetical speech of any one language
defies, in my belief, translation into any other. But Herodotus loses little, and North is
every whit as good as Plutarch.

  Sigh no more, ladies; ladies, sigh no more!
     Men were deceivers ever;
  One foot in sea and one on shore,
     To one thing constant never

Suppose that rendered thus:

I enjoin upon the adult female population ([Greek: gynaikes]), not once but twice, that there
be from this time forward, a total cessation of sighing. The male is, and has been, constantly
addicted to inconstancy, treading the ocean and the mainland respectively with alternate feet.

That, more or less, is what Paley did upon Euripides, and how would you like it if a modern
Greek did it upon Shakespeare? None the less I remember that my own first awed surmise of what
Greek might mean came from a translated story of Herodotus--the story of Cleobis and Biton--at
the tail of an old grammar-book, before I had learnt the Greek alphabet; and I am sure that
the instinct of the old translators was sound; that somehow (as Wordsworth says somewhere)
the present must be balanced on the wings of the past and the future, and that as you stretch
out the one you stretch out the other to strength.

X

There is no derogation of new things in this plea I make specially to you who may be candidates
in our School of English. You may remember my reading to you in a previous lecture that liberal
poem of Cory's invoking the spirit of 'dear divine Comatas,' that

  Two minds shall flow together, the English and the Greek.

Well, I would have your minds, as you read our literature, reach back to that Dorian shepherd
through an atmosphere--his made ours--as through veils, each veil unfolding a value. So you
will recognise how, from Chaucer down, our literature has panted after the Mediterranean water-brooks.
So through an atmosphere you will link (let me say) Collins's "Ode to Evening," or Matthew
Arnold's "Strayed Reveller" up to the 'Pervigilium Veneris,' Mr Sturge Moore's "Sicilian Vine-dresser"
up to Theocritus, Pericles' funeral oration down to Lincoln's over the dead at Gettysburg.
And as I read you just now some part of an English oration in the Latin manner, so I will conclude
with some stanzas in the Greek manner. They are by Landor--a proud promise by a young writer,
hopeful as I could wish any young learner here to be. The title--

  Corinna, from Athens, to Tanagra

  Tanagra! think not I forget
     Thy beautifully storied streets;
  Be sure my memory bathes yet
     In clear Thermodon, and yet greets
  The blithe and liberal shepherd-boy,
     Whose sunny bosom swells with joy
  When we accept his matted rushes
     Upheav'd with sylvan fruit; away he bounds, and blushes.

  A gift I promise: one I see
     Which thou with transport wilt receive,
  The only proper gift for thee,
     Of which no mortal shall bereave
  In later times thy mouldering walls,
     Until the last old turret falls;
  A crown, a crown from Athens won,
     A crown no god can wear, beside Latona's son.

  There may be cities who refuse
     To their own child the honours due,
  And look ungently on the Muse;
     But ever shall those cities rue
  The dry, unyielding, niggard breast,
    Offering no nourishment, no rest,
  To that young head which soon shall rise
     Disdainfully, in might and glory, to the skies.

  Sweetly where cavern'd Dirce flows
     Do white-arm'd maidens chaunt my lay,
  Flapping the while with laurel-rose
     The honey-gathering tribes away;
  And sweetly, sweetly Attic tongues
     Lisp your Corinna's early songs;
  To her with feet more graceful come
     The verses that have dwelt in kindred breasts at home.

  O let thy children lean aslant
     Against the tender mother's knee,
  And gaze into her face, and want
     To know what magic there can be
  In words that urge some eyes to dance,
     While others as in holy trance
  Look up to heaven: be such my praise!
     Why linger? I must haste, or lose the Delphic bays.

[Footnote 1: The Works of Lucian of Samosata: translated by H. W. Fowler and F. G. Fowler (Introduction,
p. xxix). Oxford, Clarendon Press.]

[Footnote 2: "The Training of the Imagination": by James Rhoades. London, John Lane, 1900.]

[Footnote 3: Landor: "Æsop and Rhodopè."]

LECTURE VIII

ON READING THE BIBLE (I)

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1918

I

'Read not to Contradict and Confute,' says Bacon of Studies in general: and you may be the
better disposed, Gentlemen, to forgive my choice of subject to-day if in my first sentence
I rule that way of reading the Bible completely out of court. You may say at once that, the
Bible being so full of doctrine as it is, and such a storehouse for exegesis as it has been,
this is more easily said than profitably done. You may grant me that the Scriptures in our
Authorised Version are part and parcel of English Literature (and more than part and parcel);
you may grant that a Professor of English Literature has therefore a claim, if not an obligation,
to speak of them in that Version; you may-- having granted my incessant refusal to disconnect
our national literature from our national life, or to view them as disconnected--accept the
conclusion which plainly flows from it; that no teacher of English can pardonably neglect what
is at once the most majestic thing in our literature and by all odds the most spiritually living
thing we inherit; in our courts at once superb monument and superabundant fountain of life;
and yet you may discount beforehand what he must attempt.

For (say you) if he attempt the doctrine, he goes straight down to buffeted waters so broad
that only stout theologians can win to shore; if, on the other hand, he ignore doctrine, the
play is "Hamlet" with the Prince of Denmark left out. He reduces our Bible to 'mere literature,'
to something 'belletristic,' pretty, an artifice, a flimsy, a gutted thing.

II

Now of all ways of dealing with literature that happens to be the way we should least admire.
By that way we disassociate literature from life; 'what they said' from the men who said it
and meant it, not seldom at the risk of their lives. My pupils will bear witness in their memories
that when we talk together concerning poetry, for example, by 'poetry' we mean 'that which
the poets wrote,' or (if you like) 'the stuff the poets wrote'; and their intelligence tells
them, of course, that anyone who in the simple proposition 'Poets wrote Poetry' connects an
object with a subject by a verb does not, at any rate, intend to sunder what he has just been
at pains, however slight, to join together: he may at least have the credit, whether he be
right or wrong, of asserting his subject and his object to be interdependent. Take a particular
proposition--John Milton wrote a poem called "Paradise Lost." You will hardly contest the truth
of that: but what does it mean? Milton wrote the story of the Fall of Man: he told it in some
thousands of lines of decasyllabic verse unrhymed; he measured these lines out with exquisite
cadences. The object of our simple sentence includes all these, and this much beside: that
he wrote the total poem and made it what it is. Nor can that object be fully understood--literature
being, ever and always, so personal a thing--until we understand the subject, John Milton--
what manner of man he was, and how on earth, being such a man, he contrived to do it. We shall
never quite know that: but it is important we should get as near as we can.

Of the Bible this is yet more evident, it being a translation. Isaiah did not write the cadences
of his prophecies, as we ordinary men of this country know them: Christ did not speak the cadences
of the Parables or of the Sermon on the Mount, as we know them. These have been supplied by
the translators. By all means let us study them and learn to delight in them; but Christ did
not suffer for his cadences, still less for the cadences invented by Englishmen almost 1600
years later; and Englishmen who went to the stake did not die for these cadences. They were
Lollards and Reformers who lived too soon to have heard them; they were Catholics of the `old
profession' who had either never heard or, having heard, abhorred them. These men were cheerful
to die for the meaning of the Word and for its authorship-- because it was spoken by Christ.

III

There is in fact, Gentlemen, no such thing as 'mere literature.' Pedants have coined that contemptuous
term to express a figmentary concept of their own imagination or--to be more accurate, an hallucination
of wrath--having about as much likeness to a vera causa as had the doll which (if you remember)
Maggie Tulliver used to beat in the garret whenever, poor child, the world went wrong with
her somehow. The thoughts, actions and passions of men became literature by the simple but
difficult process of being recorded in memorable speech; but in that process neither the real
thing recorded nor the author is evacuated. Belles lettres, Fine Art are odious terms, for
which no clean-thinking man has any use. There is no such thing in the world as belles lettres;
if there were, it would deserve the name. As for Fine Art, the late Professor Butcher bequeathed
to us a translation of Aristotle's "Poetics" with some admirable appendixes--the whole entitled
"Aristotle's Theory of Poetry and Fine Art." Aristotle never in his life had a theory of Fine
Art as distinct from other art: nor (I wager) can you find in his discovered works a word for
any such thing. Now if Aristotle had a concept of `fine' art as distinguished from other art,
he was man enough to find a name for it. His omission to do anything of the sort speaks for itself.

So you should beware of any teacher who would treat the Bible or any part of it as 'fine writing,'
mere literature.

IV

Let me, having said this, at once enter a caveat, a qualification. Although men do not go to
the stake for the cadences, the phrases of our Authorised Version, it remains true that these
cadences, these phrases, have for three hundred years exercised a most powerful effect upon
their emotions. They do so by association of ideas by the accreted memories of our race enwrapping
connotation around a word, a name--say the name Jerusalem, or the name Sion:

  And they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying,
  Sing us one of the songs of Sion.
  How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land?
  If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget
     her cunning.

It must be known to you, Gentlemen, that these words can affect men to tears who never connect
them in thought with the actual geographical Jerusalem; who connect it in thought merely with
a quite different native home from which they are exiles. Here and there some one man may feel
a similar emotion over Landor's

     Tanagra, think not I forget....

But the word Jerusalem will strike twenty men twentyfold more poignantly: for to each it names
the city familiar in spirit to his parents when they knelt, and to their fathers before them:
not only the city which was his nursery and yet lay just beyond the landscape seen from its
window; its connotation includes not only what the word 'Rome' has meant, and ever must mean,
to thousands on thousands setting eyes for the first time on The City: but it holds, too, some
hint of the New Jerusalem, the city of twelve gates before the vision of which St John fell prone:

  Ah, my sweet home, Hierusalem,
     Would God I were in thee!
  Thy Gardens and thy gallant walks
     Continually are green:
  There grows such sweet and pleasant flowers
     As nowhere else are seen.
  Quite through the streets with pleasant sound
     The flood of Life doth flow;
  Upon whose banks on every side
     The wood of Life doth grow....
  Our Lady sings Magnificat
     With tones surpassing sweet:
  And all the virgins bear their part,
     Sitting about her feet.
  Hierusalem, my happy home,
     Would God I were in thee!
  Would God my woes were at an end,
     Thy joys that I might see!

You cannot (I say) get away from these connotations accreted through your own memories and
your fathers'; as neither can you be sure of getting free of any great literature in any tongue,
once it has been written.

[I pause to mark how just this man can be to his great enemies. We cannot
  destroy or reverse it.... We cannot make it over again. It is a
  great work of man, when it is no work of God's.... We cannot
  undo the past. English Literature will ever have been
  Protestant.

V

I am speaking, then, to hearers who would read not to contradict and confute; who have an inherited
sense of the English Bible; and who have, even as I, a store of associated ideas, to be evoked
by any chance phrase from it; beyond this, it may be, nothing that can be called scholarship
by any stretch of the term.

Very well, then: my first piece of advice on reading the Bible is that you do it.

I have, of course, no reason at all to suppose or suggest that any member of this present audience
omits to do it. But some general observations are permitted to an occupant of this Chair: and,
speaking generally, and as one not constitutionally disposed to lamentation [in the book we
are discussing, for example, I find Jeremiah the contributor least to my mind], I do believe
that the young read the Bible less, and enjoy it less--probably read it less, because they
enjoy it less--than their fathers did.

The Education Act of 1870, often in these days too sweepingly denounced, did a vast deal of
good along with no small amount of definite harm. At the head of the harmful effects must (I
think) be set its discouragement of Bible reading; and this chiefly through its encouraging
parents to believe that they could henceforth hand over the training of their children to the
State, lock, stock and barrel.

But you know that the sire bred on the tradition of 1870, and now growing grey, does nothing
of that sort on a Saturday night: that, Saturday being tub-night, he inclines rather to order
the children into the back-kitchen to get washed; that on Sunday morning, having seen them
off to a place of worship, he inclines to sit down and read, in place of the Bible, his Sunday
newspaper: that in the afternoon he again shunts them off to Sunday-school. Now--to speak first
of the children--it is good for them to be tubbed on Saturday night; good for them also, I
dare say, to attend Sunday-school on the following afternoon; but not good in so far as they
miss to hear the Bible read by their parents and

     Pure religion breathing household laws.

'Pure religion'?--Well perhaps that begs the question: and I dare say Burns' cotter when he
waled 'a portion with judicious care,' waled it as often as not--perhaps oftener than not--to
contradict and confute; that often he contradicted and confuted very crudely, very ignorantly.
But we may call it simple religion anyhow, sincere religion, parental religion, household religion:
and for a certainty no 'lessons' in day-school or Sunday-school have, for tingeing a child's
mind, an effect comparable with that of a religion pervading the child's home, present at bedside
and board:--

     Here a little child I stand,
     Heaving up my either hand;
     Cold as paddocks the they be,
     Here I lift them up to Thee;
     For a benison to fall
     On our meat and on us all. Amen.

--permeating the house, subtly instilled by the very accent of his father's and his mother's
speech. For the grown man ... I happen to come from a part of England [Ed.: Cornwall] where
men, in all my days, have been curiously concerned with religion and are yet so concerned;
so much that you can scarce take up a local paper and turn to the correspondence column but
you will find some heated controversy raging over Free Will and Predestination, the Validity
of Holy Orders, Original Sin, Redemption of the many or the few:

     Go it Justice, go it Mercy!
     Go it Douglas, go it Percy!

But the contestants do not write in the language their fathers used. They seem to have lost
the vocabulary, and to have picked up, in place of it, the jargon of the Yellow Press, which
does not tend to clear definition on points of theology. The mass of all this controversial
stuff is no more absurd, no more frantic, than it used to be: but in language it has lost its
dignity with its homeliness. It has lost the colouring of the Scriptures, the intonation of
the Scriptures, the Scriptural habit.

If I turn from it to a passage in Bunyan, I am conversing with a man who, though he has read
few other books, has imbibed and soaked the Authorised Version into his fibres so that he cannot
speak but Biblically.

Or take this:

  Now as they were going along and talking, they espied a Boy
  feeding his Father's Sheep.

I choose ordinary passages, not solemn ones in which Bunyan is consciously scriptural. But
you cannot miss the accent.

That is Bunyan, of course; and I am far from saying that the labouring men among whom I grew
up, at the fishery or in the hayfield, talked with Bunyan's magic. But I do assert that they
had something of the accent; enough to be like, in a child's mind, the fishermen and labourers
among whom Christ found his first disciples. They had the large simplicity of speech, the cadence,
the accent. But let me turn to Ireland, where, though not directly derived from our English
Bible, a similar scriptural accent survives among the peasantry and is, I hope, ineradicable.
I choose two sentences from a book of 'Memories' recently written by the survivor of the two
ladies who together wrote the incomparable 'Irish R.M.' The first was uttered by a small cultivator
who was asked why his potato-crop had failed:

'I couldn't hardly say' was the answer. 'Whatever it was, God spurned them in a boggy place.'

Is that not the accent of Isaiah?

He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a large country.

The other is the benediction bestowed upon the late Miss Violet Martin by a beggar-woman in
Skibbereen:

Sure ye're always laughing! That ye may laugh in the sight of the Glory of Heaven!

VI

But one now sees, or seems to see, that we children did, in our time, read the Bible a great
deal, if perforce we were taught to read it in sundry bad ways: of which perhaps the worst
was that our elders hammered in all the books, all the parts of it, as equally inspired and
therefore equivalent. Of course this meant among other things that they hammered it all in
literally: but let us not sentimentalise over that. It really did no child any harm to believe
that the universe was created in a working week of six days, and that God sat down and looked
at it on Sunday, and behold it was very good. A week is quite a long while to a child, yet
a definite division rounding off a square job. The bath-taps at home usually, for some unexplained
reason, went wrong during the week-end: the plumber came in on Monday and carried out his tools
on Saturday at mid-day. These little analogies really do (I believe) help the infant mind,
and not at all to its later detriment. Nor shall I ask you to sentimentalise overmuch upon
the harm done to a child by teaching him that the bloodthirsty jealous Jehovah of the Book
of Joshua is as venerable (being one and the same unalterably, 'with whom is no variableness,
neither shadow of turning') as the Father 'the same Lord, whose property is always to have
mercy,' revealed to us in the Gospel, invoked for us at the Eucharist. I do most seriously
hold it to be fatal if we grow up and are fossilised in any such belief. (Where have we better
proof than in the invocations which the family of the Hohenzollerns have been putting up, any
time since August 1914--and for years before--to this bloody identification of the Christian
man's God with Joshua's?) My simple advice is that you not only read the Bible early but read
it again and again: and if on the third or fifth reading it leave you just where the first
left you--if you still get from it no historical sense of a race developing its concept of
God--well then, the point of the advice is lost, and there is no more to be said. But over
this business of teaching the Book of Joshua to children I am in some doubt. A few years ago
an Education Committee, of which I happened to be Chairman, sent ministers of religion about,
two by two, to test the religious instruction given in Elementary Schools. Of the two who worked
around my immediate neighbourhood, one was a young priest of the Church of England, a medievalist
with an ardent passion for ritual; the other a gentle Congregational minister, a mere holy
and humble man of heart. They became great friends in the course of these expeditions, and
they brought back this report--'It is positively wicked to let these children grow up being
taught that there is no difference in value between Joshua and St Matthew: that the God of
the Lord's Prayer is the same who commanded the massacre of Ai.' Well, perhaps it is. Seeing
how bloodthirsty old men can be in these days, one is tempted to think that they can hardly
be caught too young and taught decency, if not mansuetude. But I do not remember, as a child,
feeling any horror about it, or any difficulty in reconciling the two concepts. Children are
a bit bloodthirsty, and I observe that two volumes of the late Captain Mayne Reid--"The Rifle
Rangers," and "The Scalp Hunters"--have just found their way into The World's Classics and
are advertised alongside of Ruskin's "Sesame and Lilies" and the "De Imitatione Christi." I
leave you to think this out; adding but this for a suggestion: that as the Hebrew outgrew his
primitive tribal beliefs, so the bettering mind of man casts off the old clouts of primitive
doctrine, he being in fact better than his religion. You have all heard preachers trying to
show that Jacob was a better fellow than Esau somehow. You have all, I hope, rejected every
such explanation. Esau was a gentleman: Jacob was not. The instinct of a young man meets that
wall, and there is no passing it. Later, the mind of the youth perceives that the writer of
Jacob's history has a tribal mind and supposes throughout that for the advancement of his tribe
many things are permissible and even admirable which a later and urbaner mind rejects as detestably
sharp practice. And the story of Jacob becomes the more valuable to us historically as we realise
what a hero he is to the bland chronicler.

VII

But of another thing, Gentlemen, I am certain: that we were badly taught in that these books,
while preached to us as equivalent, were kept in separate compartments. We were taught the
books of Kings and Chronicles as history. The prophets were the Prophets, inspired men predicting
the future which they only did by chance, as every inspired man does. Isaiah was never put
into relation with his time at all; which means everything to our understanding of Isaiah,
whether of Jerusalem or of Babylon. We ploughed through Kings and Chronicles, and made out
lists of rulers, with dates and capital events. Isaiah was all fine writing about nothing at
all, and historically we were concerned with him only to verify some far-fetched reference
to the Messiah in this or that Evangelist. But there is not, never has been, really fine literature--like
Isaiah--composed about nothing at all: and in the mere matter of prognostication I doubt if
such experts as Zadkiel and Old Moore have anything to fear from any School of Writing we can
build up in Cambridge. But if we had only been taught to read Isaiah concurrently with the
Books of the Kings, what a fire it would have kindled among the dry bones of our studies!

Scholars, of course, know the political significance of that famous meeting. But if we had
only known it; if we had only been taught what Assyria was--with its successive monarchs Tiglath-
pileser, Shalmaneser, Sargon, Sennacherib; and why Syria and Israel and Egypt were trying to
cajole or force Judah into alliance; what a difference (I say) this passage would have meant to us!

VIII

I daresay, after all, that the best way is not to bother a boy too early and overmuch with
history; that the best way is to let him ramp at first through the Scriptures even as he might
through "The Arabian Nights": to let him take the books as they come, merely indicating, for
instance, that Job is a great poem, the Psalms great lyrics, the story of Ruth a lovely idyll,
the Song of Songs the perfection of an Eastern love-poem. Well and what then? He will certainly
get less of "The Cotter's Saturday Night" into it, and certainly more of the truth of the East.
There he will feel the whole splendid barbaric story for himself: the flocks of Abraham and
Laban: the trek of Jacob's sons to Egypt for corn: the figures of Rebekah at the well, Ruth
at the gleaning, and Rispah beneath the gibbet: Sisera bowing in weariness: Saul--great Saul--by
the tent-prop with the jewels in his turban:

  All its lordly male-sapphires, and rubies courageous at heart.

Or consider--to choose one or two pictures out of the tremendous procession--consider Michal,
Saul's royal daughter: how first she is given in marriage to David to be a snare for him; how
loving him she saves his life, letting him down from the window and dressing up an image on
the bed in his place: how, later, she is handed over to another husband Phaltiel, how David
demands her back, and she goes:

  And her husband (Phaltiel) went with her along weeping
  behind her to Bahurim. Then said Abner unto him, Go, return.
  And he returned.

The whole story goes into about ten lines. Your psychological novelist nowadays, given the
wit to invent it, would make it cover 500 pages at least.

Or take the end of David in the first two chapters of the First Book of Kings, with its tale
of Oriental intrigues, plots, treacheries, murderings in the depths of the horrible palace
wherein the old man is dying. Or read of Solomon and his ships and his builders, and see his
Temple growing (as Heber put it) like a tall palm, with no sound of hammers.

Let a youngster read this, I say, just as it is written; and how the true East--sound, scent,
form, colour--pours into the narrative!--cymbals and trumpets, leagues of sand, caravans trailing
through the heat, priest and soldiery and kings going up between them to the altar; blood at
the foot of the steps, blood everywhere, smell of blood mingled with spices, sandal-wood, dung
of camels!

Yes, but how--if you will permit the word--how the enjoyment of it as magnificent literature
might be enhanced by a scholar who would condescend to whisper, of his knowledge, the magical
word here or there, to the child as he reads! For an instance.--

No child--no grown man with any sense of poetry--can deny his ear to the Forty-fifth Psalm;
the one that begins 'My heart is inditing a good matter,' and plunges into a hymn of royal
nuptials. First (you remember) the singing-men, the sons of Korah, lift their chant to the
bridegroom, the King:

  Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty ... And in thy
  majesty ride prosperously.

  She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework:
  the virgins that be her fellows shall bear her company. And
  the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift. Instead of thy
  fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes
  in all the earth.

For whom (wonders the young reader, spell-bound by this), for what happy bride and bridegroom
was this glorious chant raised? Now suppose that, just here, he has a scholar ready to tell
him what is likeliest true--that the bridegroom was Ahab--that the bride, the daughter of Sidon,
was no other than Jezebel, and became what Jezebel now is--with what an awe of surmise would
two other passages of the history toll on his ear?

  Wherefore they came again, and told him.

In another lecture, Gentlemen, I propose to take up the argument and attempt to bring it to
this point. 'How can we, having this incomparable work, necessary for study by all who would
write English, bring it within the ambit of the English Tripos and yet avoid offending the
experts?'

LECTURE IX

ON READING THE BIBLE (II)

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1918

I

We left off last term, Gentlemen, upon a note of protest. We wondered why it should be that
our English Version of the Bible lies under the ban of school-masters, Boards of Studies, and
all who devise courses of reading and examinations in English Literature: that among our `prescribed
books' we find Chaucer's "Prologue," we find "Hamlet," we find "Paradise Lost," we find Pope's
"Essay on Man," again and again, but "The Book of Job" never; "The Vicar of Wakefield" and
Gray's "Elegy" often, but "Ruth" or "Isaiah," "Ecclesiasticus" or "Wisdom" never.

I propose this morning:

(1) to enquire into the reasons for this, so far as I can guess and interpret them;

(2) to deal with such reasons as we can discover or surmise;

(3) to suggest to-day, some simple first aid: and in another lecture, taking for experiment
a single book from the Authorised Version, some practical ways of including it in the ambit
of our new English Tripos. This will compel me to be definite: and as definite proposals invite
definite objections, by this method we are likeliest to know where we are, and if the reform
we seek be realisable or illusory.

II

I shall ask you then, first, to assent with me, that the Authorised Version of the Holy Bible
is, as a literary achievement, one of the greatest in our language; nay, with the possible
exception of the complete works of Shakespeare, the very greatest. You will certainly not deny
this.

As little, or less, will you deny that more deeply than any other book--more deeply even than
all the writings of Shakespeare--far more deeply--it has influenced our literature. Here let
me repeat a short passage from a former lecture of mine (May 15, 1913, five years ago). I had
quoted some few glorious sentences such as:

  Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall
  behold the land that is very far off. The Authorised Version, setting
  a seal on all, set a seal on our national style.... It has
  cadences homely and sublime, yet so harmonises them that
  the voice is always one. Simple men--holy and humble men
  of heart like Isaak Walton and Bunyan--have their lips
  touched and speak to the homelier tune. Proud men, scholars
  --Milton, Sir Thomas Browne--practise the rolling Latin
  sentence; but upon the rhythms of our Bible they, too, fall
  back--'The great mutations of the world are acted, or time may
  be too short for our designs.' 'Acquaint thyself with the
  Choragium of the stars.' 'There is nothing immortal but
  immortality.' The precise man Addison cannot excel one parable
  in brevity or in heavenly clarity: the two parts of Johnson's
  antithesis come to no more than this 'Our Lord has gone up to
  the sound of a trump; with the sound of a trump our Lord has
  gone up.' The Bible controls its enemy Gibbon as surely as it
  haunts the curious music of a light sentence of Thackeray's. It
  is in everything we see, hear, feel, because it is in us, in
  our blood.

If that be true, or less than gravely overstated: if the English Bible hold this unique place
in our literature; if it be at once a monument, an example and (best of all) a well of English
undefiled, no stagnant water, but quick, running, curative, refreshing, vivifying; may we not
agree, Gentlemen, to require the weightiest reason why our instructors should continue to hedge
in the temple and pipe the fountain off in professional conduits, forbidding it to irrigate
freely our ground of study?

It is done so complacently that I do not remember to have met one single argument put up in
defence of it; and so I am reduced to guess-work. What can be the justifying reason for an
embargo on the face of it so silly and arbitrary, if not senseless?

III

Does it reside perchance in some primitive instinct of taboo; of a superstition of fetish-worship
fencing off sacred things as unmentionable, and reinforced by the bad Puritan notion that holy
things are by no means to be enjoyed?

If so, I begin by referring you to the Greeks and their attitude towards the Homeric poems.
We, of course, hold the Old Testament more sacred than Homer. But I very much doubt if it be
more sacred to us than the Iliad and the Odyssey were to an old Athenian, in his day. To the
Greeks--and to forget this is the fruitfullest source of error in dealing with the Tragedians
or even with Aristophanes--to the Greeks, their religion, such as it was, mattered enormously.
They built their Theatre upon it, as we most certainly do not; which means that it had sunk
into their daily life and permeated their enjoyment of it, as our religion certainly does not
affect our life to enhance it as amusing or pleasurable. We go to Church on Sunday, and write
it off as an observance; but if eager to be happy with a free heart, we close early and steal
a few hours from the working-day. We antagonise religion and enjoyment, worship and holiday.
Nature being too strong for any convention of ours, courtship has asserted itself as permissible
on the Sabbath, if not as a Sabbatical institution.

Now the Greeks were just as much slaves to the letter of their Homer as any Auld Licht Elder
to the letter of St Paul. No one will accuse Plato of being overfriendly to poetry. Yet I believe
you will find in Plato some 150 direct citations from Homer, not to speak of allusions scattered
broadcast through the dialogues, often as texts for long argument. Of these citations and allusions
an inordinate number seem to us laboriously trivial-- that is to say, unless we put ourselves
into the Hellenic mind. On the other hand Plato uses others to enforce or illustrate his profoundest
doctrines. For an instance, in "Phaedo" (§ 96) Socrates is arguing that the soul cannot be
one with the harmony of the bodily affections, being herself the master-player who commands
the strings:

'--almost always' [he says] opposing and coercing them in all sorts of ways throughout life,
sometimes more violently with the pains of medicine and gymnastic; then again more gently;--
threatening, and also reprimanding the desires, passions, fears, as if talking to a thing which
is not herself; as Homer in the Odyssey represents Odysseus doing in the words

[Greek: stethos de plexas kradien enipape mutho:
        tetlathi de, kradie; kai kynteron allo pot etles]

  He beat his breast, and thus reproached his heart:
  Endure, my heart; far worse hast thou endured.

Do you think [asks Socrates] that Homer wrote this under the idea that the soul is a harmony
capable of being led by the affections of the body, and not rather of a nature which should
lead and master them--herself a far diviner thing than any harmony?

A Greek, then, will use Homer--his Bible--minutely on niceties of conduct or broadly on first
principles of philosophy or religion. But equally, since it is poetry all the time to him,
he will take--or to instance particular writers, Aristotle and the late Greek, Longinus will
take--a single hexameter to illustrate a minute trick of style or turn of phrase, as equally
he will choose a long passage or the whole "Iliad," the whole "Odyssey," to illustrate a grand
rule of poetic construction, a first principle of aesthetics. For an example--'Herein,' says
Aristotle, starting to show that an Epic poem must have Unity of Subject--'Herein, to repeat
what we have said before, we have a further proof of Homer's superiority to the rest. He did
not attempt to deal even with the Trojan War in its entirety, though it was a whole story with
a definite beginning, middle and end-- feeling apparently that it was too long a story to be
taken in at one view or else over-complicated by variety of incidents.' And as Aristotle takes
the "Iliad"--his Bible--to illustrate a grand rule of poetical construction, so the late writer
of his tradition--Longinus--will use it to exhibit the core and essence of poetical sublimity;
as in his famous ninth chapter, of which Gibbon wrote:

  The ninth chapter ... {of the [Greek: PERI UPSOUS] or "De
  Sublimitate" of Longinus} is one of the finest monuments of
  antiquity. He tells me his own feelings
  upon reading it; and tells them with so much energy, that he
  communicates them. I almost doubt which is more sublime,
  Homer's Battle of the Gods, or Longinus's Apostrophe to
  Terentianus upon it.

Well, let me quote you, in translation, a sentence or two from this chapter, which produced
upon Gibbon such an effect as almost to anticipate Walter Pater's famous definition, 'To feel
the virtue of the poet, of the painter, to disengage it, to set it forth--these are the three
stages of the critic's duty.'

'Elsewhere,' says Longinus, 'I have written as follows: Sublimity is the echo of a great soul.'

'Sublimity is the echo of a great soul.'--It was worth repeating too--was it not?

  For it is not possible that men with mean and servile ideas and
  aims prevailing throughout their lives should produce anything
  that is admirable and worthy of immortality. Great accents we
  expect to fall from the lips of those whose thoughts are deep
  and grave.... Hear how magnificently Homer speaks of the higher
  powers: 'As far as a man seeth with his eyes into the haze of
  distance as he sitteth upon a cliff of outlook and gazeth over
  the wine-dark sea, even so far at a bound leap the neighing
  horses of the Gods.'

'He makes' [says Longinus] 'the vastness of the world the measure of their leap.' Then, after
a criticism of the Battle of the Gods (too long to be quoted here) he goes on:

  Much superior to the passages respecting the Battle of the
  Gods are those which represent the divine nature as it really
  is--pure and great and undefiled; for example, what is said of
  Poseidon.

 Her far-stretching ridges, her forest-trees, quaked in dismay,
 And her peaks, and the Trojans' town, and the ships of Achaia's
  array,
 Beneath his immortal feet, as onward Poseidon strode.
 Then over the surges he drave: leapt, sporting before the God,
 Sea-beasts that uprose all round from the depths, for their king
  they knew,
 And for rapture the sea was disparted, and onward the car-steeds
  flew[1].

Then how does Longinus conclude? Why, very strangely--very strangely indeed, whether you take
the treatise to be by that Longinus, the Rhetorician and Zenobia's adviser, whom the Emperor
Aurelian put to death, or prefer to believe it the work of an unknown hand in the first century.
The treatise goes on:

  Similarly, the legislator of the Jews [Moses], no ordinary
  man, having formed and expressed a worthy conception of
  the might of the Godhead, writes at the very beginning of his
  Laws, 'God said'--What? 'Let there be light, and there was
  light'

IV

So here, Gentlemen, you have Plato, Aristotle, Longinus--all Greeks of separate states--men
of eminence all three, and two of surpassing eminence, all three and each in his time and turn
treating Homer reverently as Holy Writ and yet enjoying it liberally as poetry. For indeed
the true Greek mind had no thought to separate poetry from religion, as to the true Greek mind
reverence and liberty to enjoy, with the liberty of mind that helps to enjoy, were all tributes
to the same divine thing. They had no professionals, no puritans, to hedge it off with a taboo:
and so when the last and least of the three, Longinus, comes to our Holy Writ--the sublime
poetry in which Christendom reads its God--his open mind at once recognises it as poetry and
as sublime. 'God said, Let there be light: and there was light.' If Longinus could treat this
as sublime poetry, why cannot we, who have translated and made it ours?

V

Are we forbidden on the ground that our Bible is directly inspired? Well, inspiration, as Sir
William Davenant observed and rather wittily proved, in his Preface to "Gondibert," 'is a dangerous
term.' It is dangerous mainly because it is a relative term, a term of degrees. You may say
definitely of some things that the writer was inspired, as you may certify a certain man to
be mad--that is, so thoroughly and convincingly mad that you can order him under restraint.
But quite a number of us are (as they say in my part of the world) 'not exactly,' and one or
two of us here and there at moments may have a touch even of inspiration. So of the Bible itself:
I suppose that few nowadays would contend it to be all inspired equally. 'No' you may say,
'not all equally: but all of it directly, as no other book is.'

To that I might answer, 'How do you know that direct inspiration ceased with the Revelation
of St John the Divine, and closed the book? It may be: but how do you know, and what authority
have you to say that Wordsworth's "Tintern Abbey," for example, or Browning's great Invocation
of Love was not directly inspired? Certainly the men who wrote them were rapt above themselves:
and, if not directly, Why indirectly, and how?'

But I pause on the edge of a morass, and spring back to firmer ground. Our Bible, as we have
it, is a translation, made by forty-seven men and published in the year 1611. The original--and
I am still on firm ground because I am quoting now from "The Cambridge History of English Literature"--'either
proceeds from divine inspiration, as some will have it, or, according to others, is the fruit
of the religious genius of the Hebrew race. From either point of view the authors are highly
gifted individuals' [!]--

  highly gifted individuals, who, notwithstanding their
  diversities, and the progressiveness observable in their
  representations of the nature of God, are wonderfully
  consistent in the main tenor of their writings, and serve, in
  general, for mutual confirmation and illustration. In some
  cases, this may be due to the revision of earlier productions
  by later writers, which has thus brought more primitive
  conceptions into a degree of conformity with maturer and
  profounder views; but, even in such cases, the earlier
  conception often lends itself, without wrenching, to the
  deeper interpretation and the completer exposition. The Bible
  is not distinctively an intellectual achievement.

In all earnest I protest that to write about the Bible in such a fashion is to demonstrate
inferentially that it has never quickened you with its glow; that, whatever your learning,
you have missed what the unlearned Bunyan, for example, so admirably caught--the true wit of
the book. The writer, to be sure, is dealing with the originals. Let us more humbly sit at
the feet of the translators. 'Highly gifted individuals,' or no, the sort of thing the translators
wrote was 'And God said, Let there be light,' 'A sower went forth to sow,' 'The Kingdom of
Heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took,' 'The wages of sin is death,' 'The trumpet
shall sound,' 'Jesus wept,' 'Death is swallowed up in victory.'

Let me quote you for better encouragement, as well as for relief, a passage from Matthew Arnold
on the Authorised Version:

  The effect of Hebrew poetry can be preserved and transferred
  in a foreign language as the effect of other great
  poetry cannot. The effect of Homer, the effect of Dante, is
  and must be in great measure lost in a translation, because
  their poetry is a poetry of metre, or of rhyme, or both; and
  the effect of these is not really transferable. A man may make
  a good English poem with the matter and thoughts of Homer
  and Dante, may even try to reproduce their metre, or rhyme:
  but the metre and rhyme will be in truth his own, and the
  effect will be his, not the effect of Homer or Dante. Isaiah's,
  on the other hand, is a poetry, as is well known, of
  parallelism; it depends not on metre and rhyme, but on a
  balance of thought, conveyed by a corresponding balance of
  sentence; and the effect of this can be transferred to another
  language.... Hebrew poetry has in addition the effect of
  assonance and other effects which cannot perhaps be
  transferred; but its main effect, its effect of parallelism of
  thought and sentence, can.

I take this from the preface to his little volume in which Arnold confesses that his 'paramount
object is to get Isaiah enjoyed.'

VI

Sundry men of letters besides Matthew Arnold have pleaded for a literary study of the Bible,
and specially of our English Version, that we may thereby enhance our enjoyment of the work
itself and, through this, enjoyment and understanding of the rest of English Literature, from
1611 down. Specially among these pleaders let me mention Mr F. B. Money-Coutts (now Lord Latymer)
and a Cambridge man, Dr R. G. Moulton, now Professor of Literary Theory and Interpretation
in the University of Chicago. Of both these writers I shall have something to say. But first
and generally, if you ask me why all their pleas have not yet prevailed, I will give you my
own answer--the fault as usual lies in ourselves--in our own tameness and incuriosity.

There is no real trouble with the taboo set up by professionals and puritans, if we have the
courage to walk past it as Christian walked between the lions; no real tyranny we could not
overthrow, if it were worth while, with a push; no need at all for us to `wreathe our sword
in myrtle boughs.' What tyranny exists has grown up through the quite well-meaning labours
of quite well-meaning men: and, as I started this lecture by saying, I have never heard any
serious reason given why we should not include portions of the English Bible in our English
Tripos, if we choose.

                    Nos te,
     Nos facimus, Scriptura, deam.

Then why don't we choose?

To answer this, we must (I suggest) seek somewhat further back. The Bible--that is to say the
body of the old Hebrew Literature clothed for us in English--comes to us in our childhood.
But how does it come?

Let me, amplifying a hint from Dr Moulton, ask you to imagine a volume including the great
books of our own literature all bound together in some such order as this: "Paradise Lost,"
Darwin's "Descent of Man," "The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle," Walter Map, Mill "On Liberty," Hooker's
"Ecclesiastical Polity," "The Annual Register," Froissart, Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations,"
"Domesday Book," "Le Morte d'Arthur," Campbell's "Lives of the Lord Chancellors," Boswell's
"Johnson," Barbour's "The Bruce," Hakluyt's "Voyages," Clarendon, Macaulay, the plays of Shakespeare,
Shelley's "Prometheus Unbound," "The Faerie Queene," Palgrave's Golden Treasury, Bacon's Essays,
Swinburne's "Poems and Ballads," FitzGerald's "Omar Khayyàm," Wordsworth, Browning, "Sartor
Resartus," Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy," Burke's "Letters on a Regicide Peace," "Ossian,"
"Piers Plowman," Burke's "Thoughts on the Present Discontents," Quarles, Newman's "Apologia",
Donne's Sermons, Ruskin, Blake, "The Deserted Village," Manfred, Blair's "Grave," "The Complaint
of Deor," Bailey's "Festus," Thompson's "Hound of Heaven."

Will you next imagine that in this volume most of the author's names are lost; that, of the
few that survive, a number have found their way into wrong places; that Ruskin for example
is credited with "Sartor Resartus," that "Laus Veneris" and "Dolores" are ascribed to Queen
Elizabeth, "The Anatomy of Melancholy" to Charles II; and that, as for the titles, these were
never invented by the authors, but by a Committee?

Will you still go on to imagine that all the poetry is printed as prose; while all the long
paragraphs of prose are broken up into short verses, so that they resemble the little passages
set out for parsing or analysis in an examination paper?

This device, as you know, was first invented by the exiled translators who published the Geneva
Bible (as it is called) in 1557; and for pulpit use, for handiness of reference, for 'waling
a portion,' it has its obvious advantages: but it is, after all and at the best, a very primitive
device: and, for my part, I consider it the deadliest invention of all for robbing the book
of outward resemblance to literature and converting it to the aspect of a gazetteer--a biblion
a-biblion, as Charles Lamb puts it.

Have we done? By no means. Having effected all this, let us pepper the result over with italics
and numerals, print it in double columns, with a marginal gutter on either side, each gutter
pouring down an inky flow of references and cross references. Then, and not till then, is the
outward disguise complete--so far as you are concerned. It remains only then to appoint it
to be read in Churches, and oblige the child to get selected portions of it by heart on Sundays.
But you are yet to imagine that the authors themselves have taken a hand in the game: that
the later ones suppose all the earlier ones to have been predicting all the time in a nebulous
fashion what they themselves have to tell, and indeed to have written mainly with that object:
so that Macaulay and Adam Smith, for example, constantly interrupt the thread of their discourse
to affirm that what they tell us must be right because Walter Map or the author of "Piers Plowman"
foretold it ages before.

Now a grown man--that is to say, a comparatively unimpressionable man--that is again to say,
a man past the age when to enjoy the Bible is priceless--has probably found out somehow that
the word prophet does not (in spite of vulgar usage) mean 'a man who predicts.' He has experienced
too many prophets of that kind-- especially since 1914--and he respects Isaiah too much to
rank Isaiah among them. He has been in love, belike; he has read the Song of Solomon: he very
much doubts if, on the evidence, Solomon was the kind of lover to have written that Song, and
he is quite certain that when the lover sings to his beloved:

  Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins. Thy
  neck is as a tower of ivory; thine eyes like the fishpools
  in Heshbon, by the gate of Bath-rabbim.

--he knows, I say, that this is not a description of the Church and her graces, as the chapter-heading
audaciously asserts. But he is lazy; too lazy even to commend the Revised Version for striking
Solomon out of the Bible, calling the poem The Song of Songs, omitting the absurd chapter-headings,
and printing the poetry as poetry ought to be printed. The old-fashioned arrangement was good
enough for him. Or he goes to church on Christmas Day and listens to a first lesson, of which
the old translators made nonsense, and, in two passages at least, stark nonsense. But, again,
the old nonsense is good enough for him; soothing in fact. He is not even quite sure that the
Bible, looking like any other book, ought to be put in the hands of the young.

In all this I think he is wrong. I am sure he is wrong if our contention be right, that the
English Bible should be studied by us all for its poetry and its wonderful language as well
as for its religion--the religion and the poetry being in fact inseparable. For then, in Euripides'
phrase, we should clothe the Bible in a dress through which its beauty might best shine.

VII

If you ask me How? I answer--first begging you to bear in mind that we are planning the form
of the book for our purpose, and that other forms will be used for other purposes--that we
should start with the simplest alterations, such as these:

(1) The books should be re-arranged in their right order, so far as this can be ascertained
(and much of it has been ascertained). I am told, and I can well believe, that this would at
a stroke clear away a mass of confusion in strictly Biblical criticism. But that is not my
business. I know that it would immensely help our literary study.

(2) I should print the prose continuously, as prose is ordinarily and properly printed: and
the poetry in verse lines, as poetry is ordinarily and properly printed. And I should print
each on a page of one column, with none but the necessary notes and references, and these so
arranged that they did not tease and distract the eye.

(3) This arrangement should be kept, whether for the Tripos we prescribe a book in the Authorised
text or in the Revised. As a rule, perhaps--or as a rule for some years to come--we shall probably
rely on the Authorised Version: but for some books (and I instance "Job") we should undoubtedly
prefer the Revised.

(4) With the verse we should, I hold, go farther even than the Revisers. As you know, much
of the poetry in the Bible, especially of such as was meant for music, is composed in stanzaic
form, or in strophe and anti-strophe, with prelude and conclusion, sometimes with a choral
refrain. We should print these, I contend, in their proper form, just as we should print an
English poem in its proper form.

I shall conclude to-day with a striking instance of this, with four strophes from the 107th
Psalm, taking leave to use at will the Authorised, the Revised and the Coverdale Versions.
Each strophe, you will note, has a double refrain. As Dr Moulton points out, the one puts up
a cry for help, the other an ejaculation of praise after the help has come. Each refrain has
a sequel verse, which appropriately changes the motive and sets that of the next stanza:

                                     (i)

They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; They found no city to dwell in. Hungry and
thirsty, Their soul fainted in them.

                                     (iii)

Fools because of their transgression,
And because of their iniquities, are afflicted,
Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat;
And they draw near unto death's door.
  Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble,
  And he saveth them out of their distresses.
He sendeth his word and healeth them,
And delivereth them from their destructions.
For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind,
Which lifteth up the waves thereof.
They mount up to the heaven,
They go down again to the depths;
Their soul melteth away because of trouble.
He maketh the storm a calm,
So that the waves thereof are still.
Then are they glad because they be quiet;
So he bringeth them unto the haven where they would be.

[Footnote 1: I borrow the verse and in part the prose of Professor W. Rhys Roberts' translation.]

LECTURE X

ON READING THE BIBLE (III)

MONDAY, MAY 6, 1918

I

My task to-day, Gentlemen, is mainly practical: to choose a particular book of Scripture and
show (if I can) not only that it deserves to be enjoyed, in its English rendering, as a literary
masterpiece, because it abides in that dress, an indisputable classic for us, as surely as
if it had first been composed in English; but that it can, for purposes of study, serve the
purpose of any true literary school of English as readily, and as usefully, as the Prologue
to "The Canterbury Tales" or "Hamlet" or "Paradise Lost." I shall choose "The Book of Job"
for several reasons, presently to be given; but beg you to understand that, while taking it
for a striking illustration, I use it but to illustrate; that what may be done with "Job" may,
in degree, be done with "Ruth," with "Esther," with the "Psalms," "The Song of Songs," "Ecclesiastes;"
with Isaiah of Jerusalem, Ezekiel, sundry of the prophets; even with St Luke's Gospel or St
Paul's letters to the Churches.

My first reason, then, for choosing "Job" has already been given. It is the most striking illustration
to be found. Many of the Psalms touch perfection as lyrical strains: of the ecstacy of passion
in love I suppose "The Song of Songs" to express the very last word. There are chapters of
Isaiah that snatch the very soul and ravish it aloft. In no literature known to me are short
stories told with such sweet austerity of art as in the Gospel parables--I can even imagine
a high and learned artist in words, after rejecting them as divine on many grounds, surrendering
in the end to their divine artistry. But for high seriousness combined with architectonic treatment
on a great scale; for sublimity of conception, working malleably within a structure which is
simple, severe, complete, having a beginning, a middle and an end; for diction never less than
adequate, constantly right and therefore not seldom superb, as theme, thought and utterance
soar up together and make one miracle, I can name no single book of the Bible to compare with
"Job."

My second reason is that the poem, being brief, compendious and quite simple in structure,
can be handily expounded; "Job" is what Milton precisely called it, 'a brief model.' And my
third reason (which I must not hide) is that two writers whom I mentioned in my last lecture
Lord Latymer and Professor R. G. Moulton--have already done this for me. A man who drives at
practice must use the tools other men have made, so he use them with due acknowledgment; and
this acknowledgment I pay by referring you to Book II of Lord Latymer's "The Poet's Charter,'
and to the analysis of "Job" with which Professor Moulton introduces his "Literary Study of
the Bible.'

II

But I have a fourth reason, out of which I might make an apparent fifth by presenting it to
you in two different ways. Those elders of you who have followed certain earlier lectures 'On
the Art of Writing' may remember that they set very little store upon metre as a dividing line
between poetry and prose, and no store at all upon rhyme. I am tempted to-day to go farther,
and to maintain that, the larger, the sublimer, your subject is, the more impertinent rhyme
becomes to it: and that this impertinence increases in a sort of geometrical progression as
you advance from monosyllabic to dissyllabic and on to trisyllabic rhyme. Let me put this by
a series of examples.

We start with no rhyme at all:

     Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven first born!

We feel of this, as we feel of a great passage in "Hamlet" or "Lear," that here is verse at
once capable of the highest sublimity and capable of sustaining its theme, of lifting and lowering
it at will, with endless resource in the slide and pause of the caesura, to carry it on and
on. We feel it to be adequate, too, for quite plain straightforward narrative, as in this passage
from "Balder Dead":

     But from the hill of Lidskialf Odin rose,
     The throne, from which his eye surveys the world;
     And mounted Sleipner, and in darkness rode
     To Asgard. And the stars came out in heaven,
     High over Asgard, to light home the King.
     But fiercely Odin gallop'd, moved in heart;
     And swift to Asgard, to the gate, he came.
     And terribly the hoofs of Sleipner rang
     Along the flinty floor of Asgard streets,
     And the Gods trembled on their golden beds--
     Hearing the wrathful Father coming home--
     For dread, for like a whirlwind, Odin came.
     And to Valhalla's gate he rode, and left
     Sleipner; and Sleipner went to his own stall:
     And in Valhalla Odin laid him down.

Now of rhyme he were a fool who, with Lycidas, or Gray's "Elegy," or certain choruses of "Prometheus
Unbound," or page after page of Victor Hugo in his mind, should assert it to be in itself inimical,
or a hindrance, or even less than a help, to sublimity; or who, with Dante in his mind, should
assert it to be, in itself, any bar to continuous and sustained sublimity. But languages differ
vastly in their wealth of rhyme, and differ out of any proportion to their wealth in words:
English for instance being infinitely richer than Italian in vocabulary, yet almost ridiculously
poorer in dissyllabic, or feminine rhymes. Speaking generally, I should say that in proportion
to its wonderful vocabulary, English is poor even in single rhymes; that the words 'love,'
'truth,' 'God,' for example, have lists of possible congeners so limited that the mind, hearing
the word 'love,' runs forward to match it with 'dove' or 'above' or even with 'move': and this
gives it a sense of arrest, of listening, of check, of waiting, which alike impedes the flow
of Pope in imitating Homer, and of Spenser in essaying a sublime and continuous story of his
own. It does well enough to carry Chaucer over any gap with a 'forsooth as I you say' or 'forsooth
as I you tell': but it does so at a total cost of the sublime. And this (I think) was really
at the back of Milton's mind when in the preface to "Paradise Lost" he championed blank verse
against 'the jingling sound of like endings.'

But when we pass from single rhymes to double, of which Dante had an inexhaustible store, we
find the English poet almost a pauper; so nearly a pauper that he has to achieve each new rhyme
by a trick--which tricking is fatal to rapture, alike in the poet and the hearer. Let me instance
a poem which, planned for sublimity, keeps tumbling flat upon earth through the inherent fault
of the machine--I mean Myers's "St Paul"--a poem which, finely conceived, pondered, worked
and re-worked upon in edition after edition, was from the first condemned (to my mind) by the
technical bar of dissyllabic rhyme which the poet unhappily chose. I take one of its most deeply
felt passages--that of St Paul protesting against his conversion being taken for instantaneous,
wholly accounted for by the miraculous vision related in the "Acts of the Apostles":

  Let no man think that sudden in a minute
     All is accomplished and the work is done;--
  Though with thine earliest dawn thou shouldst begin it
     Scarce were it ended in thy setting sun.

  Oh the regret, the struggle and the failing!
     Oh the days desolate and useless years!
  Vows in the night, so fierce and unavailing!
     Stings of my shame and passion of my tears!

  How have I seen in Araby Orion,
     Seen without seeing, till he set again,
  Known the night-noise and thunder of the lion,
     Silence and sounds of the prodigious plain!

  How have I knelt with arms of my aspiring
     Lifted all night in irresponsive air,
  Dazed and amazed with overmuch desiring,
     Blank with the utter agony of prayer!

  'What,' ye will say, `and thou who at Damascus
     Sawest the splendour, answeredst the Voice;
  So hast thou suffered and canst dare to ask us,
     Paul of the Romans, bidding us rejoice?'

You cannot say I have instanced a passage anything short of fine. But do you not feel that
a man who is searching for a rhyme to Damascus has not really the time to cry 'Abba, father'?
Is not your own rapture interrupted by some wonder 'How will he bring it off'? And when he
has searched and contrived to `ask us,' are we responsive to the ecstacy? Has he not--if I
may employ an Oriental trope for once--let in the chill breath of cleverness upon the garden
of beatitude? No man can be clever and ecstatic at the same moment[1].

As for triple rhymes--rhymes of the comedian who had a lot o' news with many curious facts
about the square on the hypotenuse, or the cassiowary who ate the missionary on the plains
of Timbuctoo, with Bible, prayer-book, hymn-book too--they are for the facetious, and removed,
as far as geometrical progression can remove them, from any "Paradise Lost" or "Regained."

But not often: and, I think, never but in lyric.

III

So much, then, for rhyme. We will approach the question of metre, helped or unhelped by rhyme,
in another way; and a way yet more practical.

When Milton (determined to write a grand epic) was casting about for his subject, he had a
mind for some while to attempt the story of "Job." You may find evidence for this in a MS preserved
here in Trinity College Library.

You will find printed evidence in a passage of his "Reason of Church Government":

'Time serves not now,' he writes, 'and perhaps I might seem too profuse to give any certain
account of what the mind at home, in the spacious circuits of her musing, hath liberty to propose
to herself, though of highest hope and hardest attempting; whether that epic form whereof the
two poems of Homer, and those other two of Virgil and Tasso, are a diffuse, and the book of
Job a brief model ...'

Again, we know "Job" to have been one of the three stories meditated by Shelley as themes for
great lyrical dramas, the other two being the madness of Tasso and "Prometheus Unbound." Shelley
never abandoned this idea of a lyrical drama on Job; and if Milton abandoned the idea of an
epic, there are passages in "Paradise Lost" as there are passages in "Prometheus Unbound" that
might well have been written for this other story. Take the lines

     Why am I mock'd with death, and lengthen'd out
     To deathless pain? How gladly would I meet
     Mortality my sentence, and be earth
     Insensible! how glad would lay me down
     As in my mother's lap! There I should rest
     And sleep secure;...

What is this, as Lord Latymer asks, but an echo of Job's words?--

     For now should I have lien down and been quiet;
     I should have slept; then had I been at rest:
     With kings and counsellers of the earth,
     Which built desolate places for themselves ...
     There the wicked cease from troubling;
     And there the weary be at rest.

There is no need for me to point out how exactly, though from two nearly opposite angles, the
story of Job would hit the philosophy of Milton and the philosophy of Shelley to the very heart.
What is the story of the afflicted patriarch but a direct challenge to a protestant like Milton
(I use the word in its strict sense) to justify the ways of God to man? It is the very purpose,
in sum, of the "Book of Job," as it is the very purpose, in sum, of "Paradise Lost": and since
both poems can only work out the justification by long argumentative speeches, both poems lamentably
fail as real solutions of the difficulty. To this I shall recur, and here merely observe that
qui s' excuse s' accuse: a God who can only explain himself by the help of long-winded scolding,
or of long-winded advocacy, though he employ an archangel for advocate, has given away the
half of his case by the implicit admission that there are two sides to the question. And when
we have put aside the poetical ineptitude of a Creator driven to apology, it remains that to
Shelley the Jehovah who, for a sort of wager, allowed Satan to torture Job merely for the game
of testing him, would be no better than any other tyrant; would be a miscreant Creator, abominable
as the Zeus of the "Prometheus Unbound."

Now you may urge that Milton and Shelley dropped Job for hero because both felt him to be a
merely static figure: and that the one chose Satan, the rebel angel, the other chose Prometheus
the rebel Titan, because both are active rebels, and as epic and drama require action, each
of these heroes makes the thing move; that Satan and Prometheus are not passive sufferers like
Job but souls as quick and fiery as Byron's Lucifer:

     Souls who dare use their immortality--
     Souls who dare look the Omnipotent tyrant in
     His everlasting face, and tell him that
     His evil is not good.

Very well, urge this: urge it with all your might. All the while you will be doing just what
I desire you to do, using "Job" alongside "Prometheus Unbound" and "Paradise Lost" as a comparative
work of literature.

But, if you ask me for my own opinion why Milton and Shelley dropped their intention to make
poems on the "Book of Job," it is that they no sooner tackled it than they found it to be a
magnificent poem already, and a poem on which, with all their genius, they found themselves
unable to improve.

I want you to realise a thing most simple, demonstrable by five minutes of practice, yet so
confused by conventional notions of what poetry is that I dare say it to be equally demonstrable
that Milton and Shelley discovered it only by experiment. Does this appear to you a bold thing
to say of so tremendous an artist as Milton? Well, of course it would be cruel to quote in
proof his paraphrases of Psalms cxiv and cxxxvi: to set against the Authorised Version's

     When Israel went out of Egypt,
     The house of Jacob from a people of strange language

such pomposity as

     When the blest seed of Terah's faithful son
     After long toil their liberty had won--

or against

  O give thanks....
  To him that stretched out the earth above the waters:
     for his mercy endureth for ever.
  To him that made great lights:
     for his mercy endureth for ever

such stuff as

     Who did the solid earth ordain
     To rise above the watery plain;
       For his mercies aye endure,
       Ever faithful, ever sure.
     Who, by his all-commanding might,
     Did fill the new-made world with light;
       For his mercies aye endure,
       Ever faithful, ever sure.

verses yet further weakened by the late Sir William Baker for "Hymns Ancient and Modern."

It were cruel, I say, to condemn these attempts as little above those of Sternhold and Hopkins,
or even of those of Tate and Brady: for Milton made them at fifteen years old, and he who afterwards
consecrated his youth to poetry soon learned to know better. And yet, bearing in mind the passages
in "Paradise Lost" and "Paradise Regained" which paraphrase the Scriptural narrative, I cannot
forbear the suspicion that, though as an artist he had the instinct to feel it, he never quite
won to knowing the simple fact that the thing had already been done and surpassingly well done:
he, who did so much to liberate poetry from rhyme--he--even he who in the grand choruses of
"Samson Agonistes" did so much to liberate it from strict metre never quite realised, being
hag-ridden by the fetish that rides between two panniers, the sacred and the profane, that
this translation of "Job" already belongs to the category of poetry, is poetry, already above
metre, and in rhythm far on its way to the insurpassable. If rhyme be allowed to that greatest
of arts, if metre, is not rhythm above both for her service? Hear in a sentence how this poem
uplifts the rhythm of the Vulgate:

  Ecce, Deus magnus vincens scientiam nostram; numerus annorum
  ejus inestimabilis!
  Man setteth an end to darkness,
  And searcheth out to the furthest bound
  The stones of thick darkness and of the shadow of death.
  He breaketh open a shaft away from where men sojourn;
  They are forgotten of the foot that passeth by;
  They hang afar from men, they swing to and fro.
  As for the earth, out of it cometh bread:
  And underneath it is turned up as it were by fire.
  The atones thereof are the place of sapphires,
  And it hath dust of gold.
  That path no bird of prey knoweth,
  Neither hath the falcon's eye seen it:
  The proud beasts have not trodden it,
  Nor hath the fierce lion passed thereby.
  He putteth forth his hand upon the flinty rock;
  He overturneth the mountains by the roots.
  He cutteth out channels among the rocks;
  And his eye seeth every precious thing.
  The deep saith, It is not in me:
  And the sea saith, It is not with me.
  It cannot be gotten for gold,
  Neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof.
  Whence then cometh wisdom?
  And where is the place of understanding?
  Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living,
  And kept close from the fowls of the air.
  Destruction and Death say,
  We have heard a rumour thereof with our ears.
  God understandeth the way thereof,
  And he knoweth the place thereof.

Is that poetry? Surely it is poetry. Can you improve it with the embellishments of rhyme and
strict scansion? Well, sundry bold men have tried, and I will choose, for your judgment, the
rendering of a part of the above passage by one who is by no means the worst of them--a hardy
anonymous Scotsman. His version was published at Falkirk in 1869:

  His hand on the rock the adventurer puts,
  And mountains entire overturns by the roots;
  New rivers in rocks are enchased by his might,
  And everything precious revealed to his sight;
  The floods from o'er-flowing he bindeth at will,
  And the thing that is hid bringeth forth by his skill.

  But where real wisdom is found can he shew?
  Or the place understanding inhabiteth? No!
  Men know not the value, the price of this gem;
  'Tis not found in the land of the living with them.
  It is not in me, saith the depth; and the sea
  With the voice of an echo, repeats, Not in me.

(I have a suspicion somehow that what the sea really answered, in its northern vernacular,
was 'Me either.')

  Whence then cometh wisdom? And where is the place
  Understanding hath chosen, since this is the case?...

Enough! This not only shows how that other rendering can be spoilt even to the point of burlesque
by an attempt, on preconceived notions, to embellish it with metre and rhyme, but it also hints
that parallel verse will actually resent and abhor such embellishment even by the most skilled
hand. Yet, I repeat, our version of "Job" is poetry undeniable. What follows?

Why, it follows that in the course of studying it as literature we have found experimentally
settled for us--and on the side of freedom--a dispute in which scores of eminent critics have
taken sides: a dispute revived but yesterday (if we omit the blank and devastated days of this
War) by the writers and apostles of vers libres. 'Can there be poetry without metre?' 'Is free
verse a true poetic form?' Why, our "Book of Job" being poetry, unmistakable poetry, of course
there can, to be sure it is. These apostles are butting at an open door. Nothing remains for
them but to go and write vers libres as fine as those of "Job" in our English translation.
Or suppose even that they write as well as M. Paul Fort, they will yet be writing ancestrally,
not as innovators but as renewers. Nothing is done in literature by arguing whether or not
this or that be possible or permissible. The only way to prove it possible or permissible is
to go and do it: and then you are lucky indeed if some ancient writers have not forestalled you.

IV

Now for another question (much argued, you will remember, a few years ago) 'Is there--can there
be--such a thing as a Static Theatre, a Static Drama?'

Most of you (I daresay) remember M. Maeterlinck's definition of this and his demand for it.
To summarise him roughly, he contends that the old drama--the traditional, the conventional
drama-- lives by action; that, in Aristotle's phrase, it represents men doing, [Greek: prattontas],
and resolves itself into a struggle of human wills--whether against the gods, as in ancient
tragedy, or against one another, as in modern. M. Maeterlinck tells us--

  There is a tragic element in the life of every day that is far
  more real, far more penetrating, far more akin to the true self
  that is in us, than is the tragedy that lies in great
  adventure.... It goes beyond the determined struggle of man
  against man, and desire against desire; it goes beyond the
  eternal conflict of duty and passion. Its province is rather to
  reveal to us how truly wonderful is the mere act of living, and
  to throw light upon the existence of the soul, self-contained
  in the midst of ever-restless immensities; to hush the
  discourse of reason and sentiment, so that above the tumult may
  be heard the solemn uninterrupted whisperings of man and his
  destiny.

  To the tragic author [he goes on, later], as to the mediocre
  painter who still lingers over historical pictures, it is only
  the violence of the anecdote that appeals, and in his
  representation thereof does the entire interest of his work
  consist.... Indeed when I go to a theatre, I feel as though I
  were spending a few hours with my ancestors, who conceived life
  as though it were something that was primitive, arid and
  brutal.... I am shown a deceived husband killing his wife, a
  woman poisoning her lover, a son avenging his father, a father
  slaughtering his children, murdered kings, ravished virgins,
  imprisoned citizens--in a word all the sublimity of tradition,
  but alas how superficial and material! Blood, surface-tears and
  death! What can I learn from creatures who have but one fixed
  idea, who have no time to live, for that there is a rival, a
  mistress, whom it behoves them to put to death?

M. Maeterlinck does not (he says) know if the Static Drama of his craving be impossible. He
inclines to think--instancing some Greek tragedies such as "Prometheus" and "Choephori"--that
it already exists. But may we not, out of the East--the slow, the stationary East--fetch an
instance more convincing?

V

The Drama of Job opens with a "Prologue" in the mouth of a Narrator.

There was a man in the land of Uz, named Job; upright, God-fearing, of great substance in sheep,
cattle and oxen; blest also with seven sons and three daughters. After telling of their family
life, how wholesome it is, and pious, and happy--

The Prologue passes to a Council held in Heaven. The Lord sits there, and the sons of God present
themselves each from his province. Enters Satan (whom we had better call the Adversary) from
his sphere of inspection, the Earth, and reports. The Lord specially questions him concerning
Job, pattern of men. The Adversary demurs. 'Doth Job fear God for nought? Hast thou not set
a hedge about his prosperity? But put forth thy hand and touch all that he hath, and he will
renounce thee to thy face.' The Lord gives leave for this trial to be made (you will recall
the opening of "Everyman"):

So, in the midst of his wealth, a messenger came to job and says--

     The oxen were plowing,
     and the asses feeding beside them:
     and the Sabeans fell upon them,
     and took them away;
  yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword;
  and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

  While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said,
  The fire of God is fallen from heaven,
  and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants,
     and consumed them;
     and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

  While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said,
     The Chaldeans made three bands,
     and fell upon the camels,
     and have taken them away,
  yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword;
  and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

So the Adversary is foiled, and Job has not renounced God. A second Council is held in Heaven;
and the Adversary, being questioned, has to admit Job's integrity, but proposes a severer test:

  Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his
  life. But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and
  his flesh, and he will renounce thee to thy face.

Again leave is given: and the Adversary smites job with the most hideous and loathsome form
of leprosy. His kinsfolk (as we learn later) have already begun to desert and hold aloof from
him as a man marked out by God's displeasure. But now he passes out from their midst, as one
unclean from head to foot, and seats himself on the ash-mound--that is, upon the Mezbele or
heap of refuse which accumulates outside Arab villages.

  'The dung,' says Professor Moulton, `which is heaped upon
  the Mezbele of the Hauran villages is not mixed with straw,
  which in that warm and dry land is not needed for litter,
  and it comes mostly from solid-hoofed animals, as the
  flocks and oxen are left over-night in the grazing places. It
  is carried in baskets in a dry state to this place ... and
  usually burnt once a month.... The ashes remain.... If the
  village has been inhabited for centuries the Mezbele
  reaches a height far overtopping it. The winter rains reduce
  it into a compact mass, and it becomes by and by a solid
  hill of earth.... The Mezbele serves the inhabitants for a
  watchtower, and in the sultry evenings for a place of
  concourse, because there is a current of air on the height.
  There all day long the children play about it; and there the
  outcast, who has been stricken with some loathsome malady, and
  is not allowed to enter the dwellings of men, lays himself down
  begging an alms of the passers-by by day, and by night
  sheltering himself among the ashes which the heat of the sun
  has warmed.'

Here, then, sits in his misery 'the forsaken grandee'; and here yet another temptation comes
to him--this time not expressly allowed by the Lord. Much foolish condemnation (and, I may
add, some foolish facetiousness) has been heaped on Job's wife. As a matter of fact she is
not a wicked woman--she has borne her part in the pious and happy family life, now taken away:
she has uttered no word of complaint though all the substance be swallowed up and her children
with it. But now the sight of her innocent husband thus helpless, thus incurably smitten, wrings,
through love and anguish and indignation, this cry from her:

  Dost thou still hold fast thine integrity? renounce God, and
  die.

But Job answered, soothing her:

  Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh.

So the second trial ends, and Job has sinned not with his lips.

But now comes the third trial, which needs no Council in Heaven to decree it. 'And when they
lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they lifted up their voice, and wept.' Then
they went up and sat down opposite him on the ground.

The Prologue ends. The scene is set. After seven days of silence the real drama opens.

VI

Of the drama itself I shall attempt no analysis, referring you for this to the two books from
which I have already quoted. My purpose being merely to persuade you that this surpassing poem
can be studied, and ought to be studied, as literature, I shall content myself with turning
it (so to speak) once or twice in my hand and glancing one or two facets at you.

To begin with, then, you will not have failed to notice, in the setting out of the drama, a
curious resemblance between "Job" and the "Prometheus" of Aeschylus. The curtain in each play
lifts on a figure solitary, tortured (for no reason that seems good to us) by a higher will
which, we are told, is God's. The chorus of Sea-nymphs in the opening of the Greek play bears
no small resemblance in attitude of mind to job's three friends. When job at length breaks
the intolerable silence with

  Let the day perish wherein I was born,
  And the night which said, There is a man child conceived.

he uses just such an outburst as Prometheus: and, as he is answered by his friends, so the
Nymphs at once exclaim to Prometheus

     Seest thou not that thou hast sinned?

But at once, for anyone with a sense of comparative literature, is set up a comparison between
the persistent West and the persistent East; between the fiery energising rebel and the patient
victim. Of these two, both good, one will dare everything to release mankind from thrall; the
other will submit, and justify himself--mankind too, if it may hap--by submission.

At once this difference is seen to give a difference of form to the drama. Our poem is purely
static. Some critics can detect little individuality in Job's three friends, to distinguish
them. For my part I find Eliphaz more of a personage than the other two; grander in the volume
of his mind, securer in wisdom; as I find Zophar rather noticeably a mean-minded greybeard,
and Bildad a man of the stand-no-nonsense kind. But, to tell the truth, I prefer not to search
for individuality in these men: I prefer to see them as three figures with eyes of stone almost
expressionless. For in truth they are the conventions, all through,--the orthodox men--addressing
Job, the reality; and their words come to this:

     Thou sufferest, therefore must have sinned.
     All suffering is, must be a judgment upon sin.
     Else God is not righteous.

They are statuesque, as the drama is static. The speeches follow one another, rising and falling,
in rise and fall magnificently and deliberately eloquent. Not a limb is seen to move, unless
it be when job half rises from the dust in sudden scorn of their conventions:

     No doubt but ye are the people,
     And wisdom shall die with you!

or again

     Will ye speak unrighteously for God,
     And talk deceitfully for him?
     Will ye respect his person?
     Will ye contend for God?

Yet--so great is this man, who has not renounced and will not renounce God, that still and
ever he clamours for more knowledge of Him.

With a slow gesture he covers his face:

     The words of Job are ended.

VII

They are ended: even though at this point (when the debate seems to be closed) a young Aramaean
Arab, Elihu, who has been loitering around and listening to the controversy, bursts in and
delivers his young red-hot opinions. They are violent, and at the same time quite raw and priggish.
Job troubles not to answer: the others keep a chilling silence. But while this young man rants,
pointing skyward now and again, we see, we feel--it is most wonderfully conveyed--as clearly
as if indicated by successive stage-directions, a terrific thunder-storm gathering; a thunder-storm
with a whirlwind. It gathers; it is upon them; it darkens them with dread until even the words
of Elihu dry on his lips:

     If a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up.

It breaks and blasts and confounds them; and out of it the Lord speaks.

Now of that famous and marvellous speech, put by the poet into the mouth of God, we may say
what may be said of all speeches put by man into the mouth of God. We may say, as of the speeches
of the Archangel in "Paradise Lost" that it is argument, and argument, by its very nature,
admits of being answered. But, if to make God talk at all be anthropomorphism, here is anthropomorphism
at its very best in its effort to reach to God.

There is a hush. The storm clears away; and in this hush the voice of the Narrator is heard
again, pronouncing the Epilogue. Job has looked in the face of God and reproached him as a
friend reproaches a friend. Therefore his captivity was turned, and his wealth returned to
him, and he begat sons and daughters, and saw his sons' sons unto the fourth generation. So
Job died, being old and full of years.

VIII

Structurally a great poem; historically a great poem; philosophically a great poem; so rendered
for us in noble English diction as to be worthy in any comparison of diction, structure, ancestry,
thought! Why should we not study it in our English School, if only for purpose of comparison?
I conclude with these words of Lord Latymer:

  There is nothing comparable with it except the "Prometheus
  Bound" of Aeschylus. It is eternal, illimitable ... its scope
  is the relation between God and Man. It is a vast liberation, a
  great gaol-delivery of the spirit of Man; nay, rather a great
  Acquittal.

[Footnote 1: It is fair to say that Myers cancelled the Damascus stanza in his final edition.]

LECTURE XI

OF SELECTION

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1918

I

Let us hark back, Gentlemen, to our original problem, and consider if our dilatory way have
led us to some glimpse of a practical solution.

We may re-state it thus: Assuming it to be true, as men of Science assure us, that the weight
of this planet remains constant, and is to-day what it was when mankind carelessly laid it
on the shoulders of Atlas; that nothing abides but it goes, that nothing goes but in some form
or other it comes back; you and I may well indulge a wonder what reflections upon this astonishing
fact our University Librarian, Mr Jenkinson, takes to bed with him. A copy of every book printed
in the United Kingdom is--or I had better say, should be--deposited with him. Putting aside
the question of what he has done to deserve it, he must surely wonder at times from what other
corners of the earth Providence has been at pains to collect and compact the ingredients of
the latest new volume he handles for a moment before fondly committing it to the cellars.

     'Locked up, not lost.'

Or, to take it in reverse--When the great library of Alexandria went up in flames, doubtless
its ashes awoke an appreciable and almost immediate energy in the crops of the Nile Delta.
The more leisurable process of desiccation, by which, under modern storage, the components
of a modern novel are released to fresh unions and activities admits, as Sir Thomas Browne
would say, a wide solution, and was just the question to tease that good man. Can we not hear
him discussing it? 'To be but pyramidally extant is a fallacy in duration.... To burn the bones
of the King of Edom for lime seems no irrational ferity: but to store the back volumes of Mr
Bottomley's "John Bull" a passionate prodigality.'

II

Well, whatever the perplexities of our Library we may be sure they will never break down that
tradition of service, help and courtesy which is, among its fine treasures, still the first.
But we have seen that Mr Jenkinson's perplexities are really but a parable of ours: that the
question, What are we to do with all these books accumulating in the world? really is a question:
that their mere accumulation really does heap up against us a barrier of such enormous and
brute mass that the stream of human culture must needs be choked and spread into marsh unless
we contrive to pipe it through. That a great deal of it is meant to help--that even the most
of it is well intentioned--avails not against the mere physical obstacle of its mass. If you
consider an Athenian gentleman of the 5th century B.C. connecting (as I always preach here)
his literature with his life, two things are bound to strike you: the first that he was a man
of leisure, somewhat disdainful of trade and relieved of menial work by a number of slaves;
the second, that he was surprisingly unencumbered with books. You will find in Plato much about
reciters, actors, poets, rhetoricians, pleaders, sophists, public orators and refiners of language,
but very little indeed about books. Even the library of Alexandria grew in a time of decadence
and belonged to an age not his. Says Jowett in the end:

  He who approaches him in the most reverent spirit shall reap
  most of the fruit of his wisdom; he who reads him by the
  light of ancient commentators will have the least
  understanding of him.

  We see him [Jowett goes on] with the eye of the mind in
  the groves of the Academy, or on the banks of the Ilissus,
  or in the streets of Athens, alone or walking with Socrates,
  full of those thoughts which have since become the
  common possession of mankind. Or we may compare him
  to a statue hid away in some temple of Zeus or Apollo, no
  longer existing on earth, a statue which has a look as of the
  God himself. Or we may once more imagine him following
  in another state of being the great company of heaven
  which he beheld of old in a vision. So, 'partly trifling but
  with a certain degree of seriousness,' we linger around the
  memory of a world which has passed away.

Yes, 'which has passed away,' and perhaps with no token more evident of its decease than the
sepulture of books that admiring generations have heaped on it!

III

In a previous lecture I referred you to the beautiful opening and the yet more beautiful close
of the "Phaedrus." Let us turn back and refresh ourselves with that Dialogue while we learn
from it, in somewhat more of detail, just what a book meant to an Athenian: how fresh a thing
it was to him and how little irksome.

Phaedrus has spent his forenoon listening to a discourse by the celebrated rhetorician Lysias
on the subject of Love, and is starting to cool his head with a stroll beyond the walls of
the city, when he encounters Socrates, who will not let him go until he has delivered up the
speech with which Lysias regaled him, or, better still, the manuscript, 'which I suspect you
are carrying there in your left hand under your cloak.' So they bend their way beside Ilissus
towards a tall plane tree, seen in the distance. Having reached it, they recline.

  'By Hera,' says Socrates, 'a fair resting-place, full of
  summer sounds and scents! This clearing, with the agnus
  castus in high bloom and fragrant, and the stream beneath
  the tree so gratefully cool to our feet! Judging from the
  ornaments and statues, I think this spot must be sacred to
  Acheloüs and the Nymphs. And the breeze, how
  deliciously charged with balm! and all summer's murmur in
  the air, shrilled by the chorus of the grasshoppers! But the
  greatest charm is this knoll of turf,--positively a pillow for
  the head. My dear Phaedrus, you have been a delectable
  guide.'

  'What an incomprehensible being you are, Socrates,' returns
  Phaedrus. 'When you are in the country, as you say, you
  really are like some stranger led about by a guide. Upon my
  word, I doubt if you ever stray beyond the gates save by
  accident.'

  'Very true, my friend: and I hope you will forgive me for the
  reason--which is, that I love knowledge, and my teachers are
  the men who dwell in the city, not the trees or country
  scenes. Yet I do believe you have found a spell to draw me
  forth, like a hungry cow before whom a bough or a bunch of
  fruit is waved. For only hold up before me in like manner a
  book, and you may lead me all round Attica and over the
  wide world.'

So they recline and talk, looking aloft through that famous pure sky of Attica, mile upon mile
transparent; and their discourse (preserved to us) is of Love, and seems to belong to that
atmosphere, so clear it is and luminously profound. It ends with the cool of the day, and the
two friends arise to depart. Socrates looks about him.

'Should we not, before going, offer up a prayer to these local deities?'

'By all means,' Phaedrus agrees.

  Socrates (praying): 'Beloved Pan, and all ye other gods who
  haunt this place, grant me beauty in the inward soul, and that
  the outward and inward may be at one! May I esteem the wise
  to be the rich; and may I myself have that quantity of gold
  which a temperate man, and he only, can carry.... Anything
  more? That prayer, I think, is enough for me.'

  Phaedrus. 'Ask the same for me, Socrates. Friends, methinks,
  should have all things in common.'

  Socrates. 'Amen, then.... Let us go.'

Here we have, as it seems to me, a marriage, without impediment, of wisdom and beauty between
two minds that perforce have small acquaintance with books: and yet, with it, Socrates' confession
that anyone with a book under his cloak could lead him anywhere by the nose. So we see that
Hellenic culture at its best was independent of book-learning, and yet craved for it.

IV

When our own Literature awoke, taking its origin from the proud scholarship of the Renaissance,
an Englishman who affected it was scarcely more cumbered with books than our Athenian had been,
two thousand years before. It was, and it remained, aristocratic: sparingly expensive of its
culture. It postulated, if not a slave population, at least a proletariat for which its blessings
were not. No one thought of making a fortune by disseminating his work in print. Shakespeare
never found it worth while to collect and publish his plays; and a very small sense of history
will suffice to check our tears over the price received by Milton for "Paradise Lost." We may
wonder, indeed, at the time it took our forefathers to realise--or, at any rate, to employ--the
energy that lay in the printing-press. For centuries after its invention mere copying commanded
far higher prices than authorship[1]. Writers gave 'authorised' editions to the world sometimes
for the sake of fame, often to justify themselves against piratical publishers, seldom in expectation
of monetary profit. Listen, for example, to Sir Thomas Browne's excuse for publishing "Religio
Medici"

I find, Gentlemen, when you read with me in private, that nine out of ten of you dislike the
18th century and all its literary works. As for the Women students, they one and all abominate
it. You do not, I regret to say, provide me with reasons much more philosophical than the epigrammatist's
for disliking Doctor Fell. May one whose time of life excuses perhaps a detachment from passion
attempt to provide you with one? If so, first listen to this from Mr and Mrs Hammond's book
"The Village Labourer," 1760-1832:

  A row of 18th century houses, or a room of normal 18th
  century furniture, or a characteristic piece of 18th century
  literature, conveys at once a sensation of satisfaction and
  completeness. The secret of this charm is not to be found in
  any special beauty or nobility of design or expression, but
  simply in an exquisite fitness. The 18th century mind was a
  unity, an order. All literature and art that really belong to
  the 18th century are the language of a little society of men
  and women who moved within one set of ideas; who understood
  each other; who were not tormented by any anxious or
  bewildering problems; who lived in comfort, and, above all
  things, in composure. The classics were their freemasonry.
  There was a standard for the mind, for the emotions, for
  taste: there were no incongruities.

  When you have a society like this, you have what we
  roughly call a civilisation, and it leaves its character and
  canons in all its surroundings and in its literature. Its
  definite ideas lend themselves readily to expression. A
  larger society seems an anarchy in contrast: just because
  of its escape into a greater world it seems powerless to
  stamp itself in wood or stone; it is condemned as an age of
  chaos and mutiny, with nothing to declare.

You do wrong, I assure you, in misprising these men of the 18th century. They reduced life,
to be sure: but by that very means they saw it far more completely than do we, in this lyrical
age, with our worship of 'fine excess.' Here at any rate, and to speak only of its literature,
you have a society fencing that literature around--I do not say by forethought or even consciously--but
in effect fencing its literature around, to keep it in control and capable of an orderly, a
nice, even an exquisite cultivation. Dislike it as you may, I do not think that any of you,
as he increases his knowledge of the technique of English Prose, yes, and of English Verse
(I do not say of English Poetry) will deny his admiration to the men of the 18th century. The
strength of good prose resides not so much in the swing and balance of the single sentence
as in the marshalling of argument, the orderly procession of paragraphs, the disposition of
parts so that each finds its telling, its proper, place; the adjustment of the means to the
end; the strategy which brings its full force into action at the calculated moment and drives
the conclusion home upon an accumulated sense of justice. I do not see how any student of 18th
century literature can deny its writers--Berkeley or Hume or Gibbon--Congreve or Sheridan--Pope
or Cowper--Addison or Steele or Johnson--Burke or Chatham or Thomas Paine--their meed for this,
or, if he be an artist, even his homage.

But it remains true, as your instinct tells you, and as I have admitted, that they achieved
all this by help of narrow and artificial boundaries. Of several fatal exclusions let me name
but two.

In the first place, they excluded the Poor; imitating in a late age the Athenian tradition
of a small polite society resting on a large and degraded one. Throughout the 18th century--and
the great Whig families were at least as much to blame for this as the Tories--by enclosure
of commons, by grants, by handling of the franchise, by taxation, by poor laws in result punitive
though intended to be palliative, the English peasantry underwent a steady process of degradation
into serfdom: into a serfdom which, during the first twenty years of the next century, hung
constantly and precariously on the edge of actual starvation. The whole theory of culture worked
upon a principle of double restriction; of restricting on the one hand the realm of polite
knowledge to propositions suitable for a scholar and a gentleman, and, on the other, the numbers
of the human family permitted to be either. The theory deprecated enthusiasm, as it discountenanced
all ambition in a poor child to rise above what Sir Spencer Walpole called 'his inevitable
and hereditary lot'--to soften which and make him acquiescent in it was, with a Wilberforce
or a Hannah More, the last dream of restless benevolence.

VI

Also these 18th century men fenced off the whole of our own Middle English and medieval literature--fenced
off Chaucer and Dunbar, Malory and Berners--as barbarous and 'Gothic.' They treated these writers
with little more consideration than Boileau had thought it worth while to bestow on Villon
or on Ronsard-- enfin Malherbe! As for Anglo-Saxon literature, one may, safely say that, save
by Gray and a very few others, its existence was barely surmised.

You may or may not find it harder to forgive them that they ruled out moreover a great part
of the literature of the preceding century as offensive to urbane taste, or as they would say,
'disgusting.' They disliked it mainly, one suspects, as one age revolts from the fashion of
another--as some of you, for example, revolt from the broad plenty of Dickens (Heaven forgive
you) or the ornament of Tennyson. Some of the great writers of that age definitely excluded
God from their scheme of things: others included God fiercely, but with circumscription and
limitation. I think it fair to say of them generally that they hated alike the mystical and
the mysterious, and, hating these, could have little commerce with such poetry as Crashaw's
and Vaughan's or such speculation as gave ardour to the prose of the Cambridge Platonists.
Johnson's famous attack, in his "Life of Cowley," upon the metaphysical followers of Donne
ostensibly assails their literary conceits, but truly and at bottom rests its quarrel against
an attitude of mind, in respect of which he lived far enough removed to be unsympathetic yet
near enough to take denunciation for a duty. Johnson, to put it vulgarly, had as little use
for Vaughan's notion of poetry as he would have had for Shelley's claim that it

     feeds on the aëreal kisses
     Of shapes that haunt thought's wildernesses,

and we have only to set ourselves back in Shelley's age and read (say) the verse of Frere and
Canning in "The Anti-Jacobin," to understand how frantic a lyrist--let be how frantic a political
figure--Shelley must have appeared to well-regulated minds.

VII

All this literature which our forefathers excluded has come back upon us: and concurrently
we have to deal with the more serious difficulty (let us give thanks for it) of a multitude
of millions insurgent to handsel their long-deferred heritage. I shall waste no time in arguing
that we ought not to wish to withhold it, because we cannot if we would. And thus the problem
becomes a double one, of distribution as well as of selection.

Now in the first place I submit that this distribution should be free: which implies that our
selection must be confined to books and methods of teaching. There must be no picking and choosing
among the recipients, no appropriation of certain forms of culture to certain 'stations of
life' with a tendency, conscious or unconscious, to keep those stations as stationary as possible.

Merely by clearing our purpose to this extent we shall have made no inconsiderable advance.
For even the last century never quite got rid of its predecessor's fixed idea that certain
degrees of culture were appropriate to certain stations of life. With what gentle persistence
it prevails, for example, in Jane Austen's novels; with what complacent rhetoric in Tennyson
(and in spite of Lady Clara Vere de Vere)! Let me remind you that by allowing an idea to take
hold of our animosity we may be as truly `possessed' by it as though it claimed our allegiance.
The notion that culture may be drilled to march in step with a trade or calling endured through
the Victorian age of competition and possessed the mind not only of Samuel Smiles who taught
by instances how a bright and industrious boy might earn money and lift himself out of his
'station,' but of Ruskin himself, who in the first half of "Sesame and Lilies," in the lecture
"Of Kings' Treasuries," discussing the choice of books, starts vehemently and proceeds at length
to denounce the prevalent passion for self-advancement--of rising above one's station in life--quite
as if it were the most important thing, willy-nilly, in talking of the choice of books. Which
means that, to Ruskin, just then, it was the most formidable obstacle. Can we, at this time
of day, do better by simply turning the notion out of doors? Yes, I believe that we can: and
upon this credo:

I believe that while it may grow--and grow infinitely--with increase of learning, the grace
of a liberal education, like the grace of Christianity, is so catholic a thing--so absolutely
above being trafficked, retailed, apportioned, among `stations in life'--that the humblest
child may claim it by indefeasible right, having a soul.

Further, I believe that Humanism is, or should he, no decorative appanage, purchased late in
the process of education, within the means of a few: but a quality, rather, which should, and
can, condition all teaching, from a child's first lesson in Reading: that its unmistakable
hall-mark can be impressed upon the earliest task set in an Elementary School.

VIII

I am not preaching red Radicalism in this: I am not telling you that Jack is as good as his
master: if he were, he would be a great deal better; for he would understand Homer (say) as
well as his master, the child of parents who could afford to have him taught Greek. As Greek
is commonly taught, I regret to say, whether they have learnt it or not makes a distressingly
small difference to most boys' appreciation of Homer. Still it does make a vast difference
to some, and should make a vast difference to all. And yet, if you will read the passage in
Kinglake's "Eöthen" in which he tells--in words that find their echo in many a reader's memory--of
his boyish passion for Homer--and if you will note that the boy imbibed his passion, after
all, through the conduit of Pope's translation--you will acknowledge that, for the human boy,
admission to much of the glory of Homer's realm does not depend upon such mastery as a boy
of fifteen or sixteen possesses over the original. But let me quote you a few sentences:

  I, too, loved Homer, but not with a scholar's love. The most
  humble and pious among women was yet so proud a mother that she
  could teach her first-born son no Watts's hymns, no collects
  for the day; she could teach him in earliest childhood no less
  than this--to find a home in his saddle, and to love old Homer,
  and all that old Homer sung. True it is, that the Greek was
  ingeniously rendered into English, the English of Pope even,
  but not even a mesh like that can screen an earnest child from
  the fire of Homer's battles.

  I pored over the "Odyssey" as over a story-book, hoping and
  fearing for the hero whom yet I partly scorned. But the
  "Iliad"--line by line I clasped it to my brain with reverence
  as well as with love....

  The impatient child is not grubbing for beauties, but
  pushing the siege; the women vex him with their delays,
  and their talking ... but all the while that he thus chafes at
  the pausing of the action, the strong vertical light of
  Homer's poetry is blazing so full upon the people and
  things of the "Iliad," that soon to the eyes of the child they
  grow familiar as his mother's shawl....

  It was not the recollection of school nor college learning,
  but the rapturous and earnest reading of my childhood,
  which made me bend forward so longingly to the plains of Troy.

IX

It is among the books then, and not among the readers, that we must do our selecting. But how?
On what principle or principles?

Sometime in the days of my youth, a newspaper, "The Pall Mall Gazette," then conducted by W.
T. Stead, made a conscientious effort to solve the riddle by inviting a number of eminent men
to compile lists of the Hundred Best Books. Now this invitation rested on a fallacy. Considering
for a moment how personal a thing is Literature, you will promptly assure yourselves that there
is--there can be--no such thing as the Hundred Best Books. If you yet incline to toy with the
notion, carry it on and compile a list of the Hundred Second-best Books: nay, if you will,
continue until you find yourself solemnly, with a brow corrugated by responsibility, weighing
the claims (say) of Velleius Paterculus, Paul and Virginia and Mr Jorrocks to admission among
the Hundred Tenth-best Books. There is, in fact no positive hierarchy among the classics. You
cannot appraise the worth of Charles Lamb against the worth of Casaubon: the worth of Hesiod
against the worth of Madame de Sévigné: the worth of Théophile Gautier against the worth of
Dante or Thomas Hobbes or Macchiavelli or Jane Austen. They all wrote with pens, in ink, upon
paper: but you no sooner pass beyond these resemblances than your comparison finds itself working
in impari materia.

Also why should the Best Books be 100 in number, rather than 99 or 199? And under what conditions
is a book a Best Book? There are moods in which we not only prefer Pickwick to the Rig-Vedas
or Sakuntalà, but find that it does us more good. In our day again I pay all respect to Messrs
Dent's "Everyman's Library." It was a large conception vigorously planned. But, in the nature
of things, Everyman is going to arrive at a point beyond which he will find it more and more
difficult to recognise himself: at a point, let us say, when Everyman, opening a new parcel,
starts to doubt if, after all, it wouldn't be money in his pocket to be Somebody Else.

X

And yet, may be, "The Pall Mall Gazette" was on the right scent. For it was in search of masterpieces:
and, however we teach, our trust will in the end repose upon masterpieces, upon the great classics
of whatever Language or Literature we are handling: and these, in any language are neither
enormous in number and mass, nor extraordinarily difficult to detect, nor (best of all) forbidding
to the reader by reason of their own difficulty. Upon a selected few of these--even upon three,
or two, or one--we may teach at least a surmise of the true delight, and may be some measure
of taste whereby our pupil will, by an inner guide, be warned to choose the better and reject
the worse when we turn him loose to read for himself.

To this use of masterpieces I shall devote my final lecture.

[Footnote 1: Charles Reade notes this in "The Cloister and the Hearth," chap. LXI.]

[Footnote 2: The loose and tautologous style of this Preface is worth noting. Likely enough
Browne wrote it in a passion that deprived him of his habitual self-command. One phrase alone
reveals the true Browne--that is, Browne true to himself: 'and time that brings other things
to light, should have satisfied me in the remedy of its oblivion.']

LECTURE XII

ON THE USE OF MASTERPIECES

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1918

I

I do not think, Gentlemen, that we need to bother ourselves today with any definition of a
'classic,' or of the stigmata by which a true classic can be recognised. Sainte-Beuve once
indicated these in a famous discourse, "Qu'est-ce qu'un classique": and it may suffice us that
these include Universality and Permanence. Your true classic is universal, in that it appeals
to the catholic mind of man. It is doubly permanent: for it remains significant, or acquires
a new significance, after the age for which it was written and the conditions under which it
was written, have passed away; and it yet keeps, undefaced by handling, the original noble
imprint of the mind that first minted it--or shall we say that, as generation after generation
rings the coin, it ever returns the echo of its father-spirit?

But for our purpose it suffices that in our literature we possess a number of works to which
the title of classic cannot be refused. So let us confine ourselves to these, and to the question,
How to use them?

II

Well, to begin with, I revert to a point which I tried to establish in my first lecture; and
insist with all my strength that the first obligation we owe to any classic, and to those whom
we teach, and to ourselves, is to treat it absolutely: not for any secondary or derivative
purpose, or purpose recommended as useful by any manual: but at first solely to interpret the
meaning which its author intended: that in short we should trust any given masterpiece for
its operation, on ourselves and on others. He and the author between them will do the rest:
our function is to communicate and trust. In what other way do children take the ineffaceable
stamp of a gentle nurture than by daily attraction to whatsoever is beautiful and amiable and
dignified in their home? As there, so in their reading, the process must be gradual of acquiring
an inbred monitor to reject the evil and choose the good. Abeunt studia in mores. I cannot,
for my part, conceive a man who has once incorporated the "Phaedo" or the "Paradiso" or "Lear"
in himself as lending himself for a moment to one or other of the follies plastered in these
late stern times upon the firm and most solid purpose of this nation--the inanities, let us
say, of a Baby-Week. Or, for a more damnable instance, I think of you and me with Marvell's
great Horatian Ode sunk in our minds, standing to-day by the statue of Charles I that looks
down Whitehall: telling ourselves of 'that memorable scene' before the Banqueting House, remembering
amid old woes all the glory of our blood and state, recollecting what is due even to ourselves,
standing on the greatest site of our capital, and turning to see it degraded, as it has been
for a week, to a vulgar raree-show. Gentlemen, I could read you many poor ill-written letters
from mothers whose sons have died for England, to prove to you we have not deserved that, or
the sort of placard with which London has been plastered,

     Dum domus Æneae Capitoli immobile saxum
     Accolet.

Great enterprises (as we know) and little minds go ill together. Someone veiled the statue.
That, at least, was well done.

I have not the information--nor do I want it--to make even a guess who was responsible for
this particular outrage. I know the sort of man well enough to venture that he never had a
liberal education, and, further, that he is probably rather proud of it. But he may nevertheless
own some instinct of primitive kindliness: and I wish he could know how he afflicts men of
sensitiveness who have sons at the War.

III

Secondly, let us consider what use we can make of even one selected classic.

I beg your attention for the exact words: 'to rise to the height of its great argument and
incorporate all its beauties in themselves.' There you have it--'to incorporate.' Do you remember
that saying of Wordsworth's, casually dropped in conversation, but preserved for us by Hazlitt?--'It
is in the highest degree unphilosophic to call language or diction the dress of our thoughts....
It is the incarnation of our thoughts.' Even so, I maintain to you, the first business of a
learner in literature is to get complete hold of some undeniable masterpiece and incorporate
it, incarnate it. And, I repeat, there are a few great works for you to choose from: works
approved for you by ancient and catholic judgment.

IV

But let us take something far simpler than the Ninth Book of "Paradise Lost" and more direct
than any translated masterpiece can be in its appeal; something of high genius, written in
our mother tongue. Let us take "The Tempest."

Of "The Tempest" we may say confidently:

(1) that it is a literary masterpiece: the last most perfect 'fruit of the noblest tree in
our English Forest';

(2) that its story is quite simple; intelligible to a child: (its basis in fact is fairy-tale,
pure and simple--as I tried to show in a previous lecture);

(3) that in reading it--or in reading "Hamlet," for that matter-- the child has no sense at
all of being patronised, of being 'written down to.' And this has the strongest bearing on
my argument. The great authors, as Emerson says, never condescend. Shakespeare himself speaks
to a slip of a boy, and that boy feels that he is Ferdinand;

(4) that, though Shakespeare uses his loftiest, most accomplished and, in a sense, his most
difficult language: a way of talking it has cost him a life-time to acquire, in line upon line
inviting the scholar's, prosodist's, poet's most careful study; that language is no bar to
the child's enjoyment: but rather casts about the whole play an aura of magnificence which,
with the assistant harmonies, doubles and redoubles the spell. A child no more resents this
because it is strange than he objects to read in a fairytale of robbers concealed in oil-jars
or of diamonds big as a roc's egg. When will our educators see that what a child depends on
is imagination, that what he demands of life is the wonderful, the glittering, possibility?

Now if, putting all this together and taking confidence from it, we boldly launch a child upon
"The Tempest" we shall come sooner or later upon passages that we have arrived at finding difficult.
Naturally (or rather let us say, ordinarily) it would run, 'Ceres, the Queen o' the sky bids
thee leave--thy rich leas, etc.' But, the lines being twelve-and-a-half in number, we get no
hint of there being any grammatical subject until it bursts on us in the second half of line
eleven, while the two main verbs and the object of one of them yet linger to be exploded in
the last half-line, 'Bids thee leave these.' And this again is as nothing to the difficulties
of interpretation. 'Dismisséd bachelor' may be easy; 'pole-clipt vineyard' is certainly not,
at first sight. 'To make cold nymphs chaste crowns.' What cold nymphs? You have to wait for
another fifty odd lines before being quite sure that Shakespeare means Naiads (and 'What are
Naiads?' says the child) --'temperate nymphs':

  You nymphs, called Naiads, of the windring brooks,
  With your sedged crowns...

--and if the child demand what is meant by 'pionèd and twillèd brims,' you have to answer him
that nobody knows.

These difficulties--perhaps for you, certainly for the young reader or listener--are reserved
delights. My old schoolmaster even indulges this suspicion--'I never can persuade myself that
Shakespeare would have passed high in a Civil Service Examination on one of his own plays.'
At any rate you don't begin with these difficulties: you don't (or I hope you don't) read the
notes first: since, as Bacon puts it, 'Studies teach not their own use.'

As for the child, he is not 'grubbing for beauties'; he magnificently ignores what he cannot
for the moment understand, being intent on What Is, the heart and secret of the adventure.
He is Ferdinand (I repeat) and the isle is 'full of voices.' If these voices were all intelligible,
why then, as Browning would say, 'the less Island it.'

V

I have purposely exhibited "The Tempest" at its least tractable. Who will deny that as a whole
it can be made intelligible even to very young children by the simple process of reading it
with them intelligently? or that the mysteries such a reading leaves unexplained are of the
sort to fascinate a child's mind and allure it? But if this be granted, I have established
my contention that the Humanities should not be treated as a mere crown and ornament of education;
that they should inform every part of it, from the beginning, in every school of the realm:
that whether a child have more education or less education, what he has can be, and should
be, a 'liberal education' throughout.

Matthew Arnold, as every one knows, used to preach the use of these masterpieces as prophylactics
of taste. I would I could make you feel that they are even more necessary to us.

The reason why?--The reason is that every child born in these Islands is born into a democracy
which, apart from home affairs, stands committed to a high responsibility for the future welfare
and good governance of Europe. For three centuries or so it has held rule over vast stretches
of the earth's surface and many millions of strange peoples: while its obligations towards
the general civilisation of Europe, if not intermittent, have been tightened or relaxed, now
here, now there, by policy, by commerce, by dynastic alliances, by sudden revulsions or sympathies.
But this War will leave us bound to Europe as we never have been: and, whether we like it or
not, no less inextricably bound to foe than to friend. Therefore, I say, it has become important,
and in a far higher degree than it ever was before the War, that our countrymen grow up with
a sense of what I may call the soul of Europe. And nowhere but in literature (which is `memorable
speech')--or at any rate, nowhere so well as in literature--can they find this sense.

VI

There was, as we have seen, a time in Europe, extending over many centuries, when mankind dwelt
under the preoccupation of making literature, and still making more of it. The 5th century
B.C. in Athens was such a time; and if you will you may envy, as we all admire, the men of
an age when to write at all was tantamount to asserting genius; the men who, in Newman's words,
`deserve to be Classics, both because of what they do and because they can do it.' If you envy--while
you envy--at least remember that these things often paid their price; that the "Phaedo," for
example, was bought for us by the death of Socrates. Pass Athens and come to Alexandria: still
men are accumulating books and the material for books; threshing out the Classics into commentaries
and grammars, garnering books in great libraries.

There follows an age which interrupts this hive-like labour with sudden and insensate destruction.
German tribes from the north, Turkish from the east, break in upon the granaries and send up
literature in flames; the Christian Fathers from Tertullian to Gregory the Great (I regret
to say) either heartily assisting or at least warming their benedictory hands at the blaze:
and so thoroughly they do their work that even the writings of Aristotle, the Philosopher,
must wait for centuries as 'things silently gone out of mind or things violently destroyed'
(to borrow Wordsworth's fine phrase) and creep back into Europe bit by bit, under cover of
Arabic translations.

The scholars set to work and begin rebuilding: patient, indefatigable, anonymous as the coral
insects at work on a Pacific atoll-building, building, until on the near side of the gulf we
call the Dark Age, islets of scholarship lift themselves above the waters: mere specks at first,
but ridges appear and connect them: and, to first seeming, sterile enough:

  Nec Cereri opportuna seges, nec commoda Baccho--

but as they join and become a terra firma, a thin soil gathers on them God knows whence: and,
God knows whence, the seed is brought, 'it may chance of wheat, or of some other grain.' There
is a price, again, for this resurrection: but how nobly, how blithely paid you may learn, without
seeking recondite examples, from Cuthbert's famous letter describing the death of Bede. Compare
that story with that of the last conversation of Socrates; and you will surely recognise that
the two men are brothers born out of time; that Bede's work has been a legacy; that his life
has been given to recreating--not scholarship merely nor literature merely--but, through them
both, something above them both--the soul of Europe. And this may or may not lead you on to
reflect that beyond our present passions, and beyond this War, in a common sanity Europe (and
America with her) will have to discover that common soul again.

But eminent spirits such as Bede's are, by their very eminence, less representative of the
process--essentially fugitive and self-abnegatory--than the thousands of copyists who have
left no name behind them. Let me read you a short paragraph from "The Cambridge History of
English Literature," Chapter 11, written, the other day, by one of our own teachers:

  The cloister was the centre of life in the monastery, and in
  the cloister was the workshop of the patient scribe. It is hard
  to realise that the fair and seemly handwriting of these
  manuscripts was executed by fingers which, on winter days,
  when the wind howled through the cloisters, must have been
  numbed by icy cold. It is true that, occasionally, little
  carrels or studies in the recesses of the windows were screened
  off from the main walk of the cloister, and, sometimes, a small
  room or cell would be partitioned off for the use of a single
  scribe. The room would then be called the Scriptorium, but it
  is unlikely that any save the oldest and most learned of the
  community were afforded this luxury. In these scriptoria of
  various kinds the earliest annals and chronicles in the
  English language were penned, in the beautiful and painstaking
  forms in which we know them.

If you seek testimony, here are the ipsissima verba of a poor monk of Wessobrunn endorsed upon
his MS:

  The book which you now see was written in the outer seats
  of the cloister. While I wrote I froze: and what I could not
  write by the beams of day I finished by candlelight.

We might profitably spend--but to-day cannot spare--a while upon the pains these men of the
Middle Ages took to accumulate books and to keep them. The chained volumes in old libraries,
for example, might give us a text for this as well as start us speculating why it is that,
to this day, the human conscience incurably declines to include books with other portable property
covered by the Eighth Commandment. Or we might follow several of the early scholars and humanists
in their passionate chasings across Europe, in and out of obscure monasteries, to recover the
lost MSS of the classics: might tell, for instance, of Pope Nicholas V, whose birth-name was
Tommaso Parentucelli, and how he rescued the MSS from Constantinople and founded the Vatican
Library: or of Aurispa of Sicily who collected two hundred and thirty-eight for Florence: or
the story of the editio princeps of the Greek text of Homer. Or we might dwell on the awaking
of our literature, and the trend given to it, by men of the Italian and French renaissance;
or on the residence of Erasmus here, in this University, with its results.

VII

But I have said enough to make it clear that, as we owe so much of our best to understanding
Europe, so the need to understand Europe lies urgently to-day upon large classes in this country;
and that yet, in the nature of things, these classes can never enjoy such leisure as our forefathers
enjoyed to understand what I call the soul of Europe, or at least to misunderstand it upon
acquaintance.

Let me point out further that within the last few months we have doubled the difficulty at
a stroke by sharing the government of our country with women and admitting them to Parliament.
It beseems a great nation to take great risks: to dare them is at once a sign and a property
of greatness: and for good or ill--but for limitless good as we trust--our country has quietly
made this enterprise amid the preoccupations of the greatest War in its annals. Look at it
as you will--let other generations judge it as they will--it stands a monument of our faith
in free self-government that in these most perilous days we gave and took so high a guerdon
of trust in one another.

But clearly it implies that all the women of this country, down to the small girls entering
our elementary schools, must be taught a great many things their mothers and grandmothers--happy
in their generation--were content not to know[1].

It cannot be denied, I think, that in the long course of this War, now happily on the point
of a victorious conclusion, we have suffered heavily through past neglect and present nescience
of our literature, which is so much more European, so much more catholic, a thing than either
our politics or our national religion: that largely by reason of this neglect and this nescience
our statesmen have again and again failed to foresee how continental nations would act through
failing to understand their minds; and have almost invariably, through this lack of sympathetic
understanding, failed to interpret us to foreign friend or foe, even when (and it was not often)
they interpreted us to ourselves. I note that America--a country with no comparable separate
tradition of literature--has customarily chosen men distinguished by the grace of letters for
ambassadors to the Court of St James--Motley, Lowell, Hay, Page, in our time: and has for her
President a man of letters--and a Professor at that!--whereas, even in these critical days,
Great Britain, having a most noble cause and at least half-a-hundred writers and speakers capable
of presenting it with dignity and so clearly that no neutral nation could mistake its logic,
has by preference entrusted it to stunt journalists and film-artistes. If in these later days
you have lacked a voice to interpret you in the great accent of a Chatham, the cause lies in
past indifference to that literary tradition which is by no means the least among the glories
of our birth and state.

VIII

Masterpieces, then, will serve us as prophylactics of taste, even from childhood; and will
help us, further, to interpret the common mind of civilisation. But they have a third and yet
nobler use. They teach us to lift our own souls.

For witness to this and to the way of it I am going to call an old writer for whom, be it whim
or not, I have an almost 18th century reverence--Longinus. No one exactly knows who he was;
although it is usual to identify him with that Longinus who philosophised in the court of the
Queen Zenobia and was by her, in her downfall, handed over with her other counsellors to be
executed by Aurelian: though again, as is usual, certain bold bad men affirm that, whether
he was this Longinus or not, the treatise of which I speak was not written by any Longinus
at all but by someone with a different name, with which they are unacquainted. Be this as it
may, somebody wrote the treatise and its first editor, Francis Robertello of Basle, in 1554
called him Dionysius Longinus; and so shall I, and have done with it, careless that other MSS
than that used by Robertello speak of Dionysius or Longinus. Dionysius Longinus, then, in the
3rd century A.D.--some say in the 1st: it is no great matter--wrote a little book [Greek: PERI
UPSOUS] commonly cited as "Longinus on the Sublime." The title is handy, but quite misleading,
unless you remember that by 'Sublimity' Longinus meant, as he expressly defines it, 'a certain
distinction and excellence in speech.' The book, thus recovered, had great authority with critics
of the 17th and 18th centuries. For the last hundred years it has quite undeservedly gone out
of vogue.

It is (I admit) a puzzling book, though quite clear in argument and language: pellucidly clear,
but here and there strangely modern, even hauntingly modern, if the phrase may be allowed.
You find yourself rubbing your eyes over a passage more like Matthew Arnold than something
of the 3rd century: or you come without warning on a few lines of 'comparative criticism,'
as we call it --an illustration from Genesis--'God said, Let there be Light, and there was
Light' used for a specimen of the exalted way of saying things. Generally, you have a sense
that this author's lineage is mysterious after the fashion of Melchisedek's.

Well, to our point--Longinus finds that the conditions of lofty utterance are five: of which
the first is by far the most important. And this foremost condition is innate: you either have
it or you have not. Here it is:

  'Elsewhere,' says Longinus, 'I have written as follows:
  "Sublimity is the echo of a great soul." Hence even a bare
  idea sometimes, by itself and without a spoken word will
  excite admiration, just because of the greatness of soul
  implied. Thus the silence of Ajax in the underworld is great
  and more sublime than words.'

You remember the passage, how Odysseus meets that great spirit among the shades and would placate
it, would 'make up' their quarrel on earth now, with carneying words:

  'Ajax, son of noble Telamon, wilt thou not then, even in
  death forget thine anger against me over that cursed
  armour.... Nay, there is none other to blame but Zeus: he
  laid thy doom on thee. Nay, come hither, O my lord, and
  hear me and master thine indignation:

  So I spake, but he answered me not a word, but strode from
  me into the Darkness, following the others of the dead that
  be departed.

Longinus goes on:

  It is by all means necessary to point this out--that the truly
  eloquent must be free from base and ignoble (or ill-bred)
  thoughts.

Believe this and it surely follows, as concave implies convex, that by daily converse and association
with these great ones we take their breeding, their manners, earn their magnanimity, make ours
their gifts of courtesy, unselfishness, mansuetude, high seated pride, scorn of pettiness,
wholesome plentiful jovial laughter.

  And with how free an eye doth he look down
  Upon these lower regions of turmoil!
  Where all the storms of passions mainly beat
  On flesh and blood; where honour, power, renown,
  Are only gay afflictions, golden toil;
  Where greatness stands upon as feeble feet
     As frailty doth; and only great doth seem
     To little minds, who do it so esteem....

  Knowing the heart of man is set to be
  The centre of this world, about the which
  These revolutions of disturbances
  Still roll; where all th' aspects of misery
  Predominate; whose strong effects are such
  As he must bear, being powerless to redress;
     And that, unless above himself he can
     Erect himself, how poor a thing is man![2]

IX

If the exhortation of these verses be somewhat too high and stoical for you, let me return
to Longinus and read you, from his concluding chapter, a passage you may find not inapposite
to these times, nor without a moral:

  'It remains' [he says] 'to clear up, my dear Terentianus, a
  question which a certain philosopher has recently mooted. I
  wonder,' he says, 'as no doubt do many others, how it happens
  that in our time there are men who have the gift of persuasion
  to the utmost extent, and are well fitted for public life, and
  are keen and ready, and particularly rich in all the charms of
  language, yet there no longer arise really lofty and
  transcendent natures unless it be quite peradventure. So great
  and world-wide a dearth of high utterance attends our age.
  Can it be,' he continued, 'we are to accept the common cant
  that democracy is the nursing mother of genius, and that great
  men of letters flourish and die with it? For freedom, they say,
  has the power to cherish and encourage magnanimous minds, and
  with it is disseminated eager mutual rivalry and the emulous
  thirst to excel. Moreover, by the prizes open under a popular
  government, the mental faculties of orators are perpetually
  practised and whetted, and as it were, rubbed bright, so that
  they shine free as the state itself. Whereas to-day,' he went
  on, 'we seem to have learnt as an infant-lesson that servitude
  is the law of life; being all wrapped, while our thoughts are
  yet young and tender, in observances and customs as in
  swaddling clothes, bound without access to that fairest and
  most fertile source of man's speech (I mean Freedom) so that we
  are turned out in no other guise than that of servile
  flatterers. And servitude (it has been well said) though
  it be even righteous, is the cage of the soul and a public
  prison-house.'

  But I answered him thus.--'It is easy, my good sir, and
  characteristic of human nature, to gird at the age in which
  one lives. Yet consider whether it may not be true that it is
  less the world's peace that ruins noble nature than this war
  illimitable which holds our aspirations in its fist, and
  occupies our age with passions as with troops that utterly
  plunder and harry it. The love of money and the love of
  pleasure enslave us, or rather, as one may say, drown us
  body and soul in their depths. For vast and unchecked
  wealth marches with lust of pleasure for comrade, and when
  one opens the gate of house or city, the other at once enters
  and abides. And in time these two build nests in the hearts
  of men, and quickly rear a progeny only too legitimate: and
  the ruin within the man is gradually consummated as the
  sublimities of his soul wither away and fade, and in ecstatic
  contemplation of our mortal parts we omit to exalt, and
  come to neglect in nonchalance, that within us which is
  immortal.'

I had a friend once who, being in doubt with what picture to decorate the chimney-piece in
his library, cast away choice and wrote up two Greek words--[Greek: PSYCHES 'IATREION]; that
is, the hospital--the healing-place--of the soul.

[Footnote 1: 'Well! ... my education is at last finished: indeed it would be strange, if, after
five years' hard application, anything were left incomplete. Happily that is all over now;
and I have nothing to do, but to exercise my various accomplishments.

'Let me see!--as to French, I am mistress of that, and speak it, if possible, with more fluency
than English. Italian I can read with ease, and pronounce very well: as well at least, and
better, than any of my friends; and that is all one need wish for in Italian. Music I have
learned till I am perfectly sick of it. But ... it will be delightful to play when we have
company. I must still continue to practise a little;--the only thing, I think, that I need
now to improve myself in. And then there are my Italian songs! which everybody allows I sing
with taste, and as it is what so few people can pretend to, I am particularly glad that I can.

'My drawings are universally admired; especially the shells and flowers; which are beautiful,
certainly; besides this, I have a decided taste in all kinds of fancy ornaments.

'And then my dancing and waltzing! in which our master himself owned that he could take me
no further! just the figure for it certainly; it would be unpardonable if I did not excel.

'As to common things, geography, and history, and poetry, and philosophy, thank my stars, I
have got through them all! so that I may consider myself not only perfectly accomplished, but
also thoroughly well-informed.

'Well, to be sure, how much have I fagged through--; the only wonder is that one head can contain
it all.'

I found this in a little book "Thoughts of Divines and Philosophers," selected by Basil Montagu.
The quotation is signed 'J. T.' I cannot trace it, but suspect Jane Taylor.]

[Footnote 2: Samuel Daniel, "Epistle to the Lady Margaret, Countess of Cumberland."]

INDEX

"Acts of the Apostles, The," 165
Addison, Joseph, 146, 192
"Adonais," Shelley's, 79
Adrian VI, Pope, 77
Aeschylus, 1, 121, 179, 183
"Aesop and Rhodopè," Landor's 117
"Agamemnon, The," 79
"Aims of Literary Study, The," 6
"Allegro,L'," 62, 63, 64
Ameipsias, 21
"Anatomy of Melancholy," Burton's, 155
"Ancient Mariner, The," 59
Andersen, Hans Christian, 46
"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, The," 154
"Annual Register, The," 155
"Anti-Jacobin, The," 194
"Apologia," Newman's, 155
"Arabian Nights," M. Galland's, 43
"Arabian Nights, The," 139
Arber, 99
Aristophanes, 21, 147
Aristotle, 1, 25, 48, 51, 52, 58, 59, 60, 121, 129, 148, 150,
  174, 207
Arnold, Matthew, 38, 99, 104, 124, 153, 205, 213
"Arraignment of Paris," Peele's, 80
"As You Like It," 71
Aulnoy, Madame D', 43
Aurispa, 209
Austen, Jane, 102, 194, 197

Bacon, Francis 21, 22, 23, 73, 94, 114, 126, 155, 205 Bagehot, Walter, 36, 113 Bailey, Philip
James, 155 Baker, Sir William, 170 "Balder Dead" 163 Ballad. The, 55 Barboar, John, 155 Bede,
207. 209 Beethoven, 139 "Beginnings of Poetry," Dr Gummere's, 55, 56, 58 "Beowulf,". 99 Berkeley,
George, 191 Berners, 193 "Bible, The," 97, 126 et seq. "Bible, The Geneva," 155 "Blackwood's
Magazine," 80 Blair, Robert, 155 Blake, William, 33, 155 Boileau, 193 Bologna, University of,
73 "Book of Nonsense," Lear's, 111 Boswell, James, 93, 155 Bottomley, Horatio, 185 Brady, Nicholas,
170 Brooke, Stopford, 94 Brown, Dr John, 56 Browne, Sir Thomas, 145, 185, 189, 190 Browning,
Elizabeth Barrett, 72 Browning, Robert, 5, 6, 7, 15, 152, 155, 205 "Bruce, The," Barbour's,
155 Bunyan, John, 97, 134, 135, 145, 152 Burke, Edmund, 94, 104, 116, 155, 192 Burns, Robert,
97, 132, 133 Burton, Robert, 155 Butcher, Professor, 129 Byron, Lord, 5, 80, 168

"Cabinet des Fées, Le," 43
"Cambridge Essays on Education," Inge's essay in, 112
"Cambridge History of English Literature, The," 5, 152, 208
Cambridge Platonists, The, 29, 193
Cambridge, University of, 1, 2 et seq., 57, 76, 77, 87, 88,
  105, 121, 209
Campbell, John, 155
Canning, 193
"Canterbury Tales, The," 71, 161
"Canterbury Tales, The Prologue to the," 71, 94, 144, 161
Canton, William, 38
Carlyle, Thomas, 5, 38, 106
Casaubon, 70, 197
"Centuries of Meditations," Thomas Traherne's, 44
Chatham, Earl of, 115, 116, 192, 211
Chaucer, 4, 27, 65, 66, 71, 88, 94, 102, 164, 105, 124, 144,
  164, 193
Chicago, University of, 154
"Choephori," 175
"Chronicles, Book of," 138
Clarendon, Lord, 155
Clark, William George, 94, 99
"Cloister and the Hearth, The," Charles Reade's, 189
Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, 65
Collins, William, 124
Colvin, Sir Sidney, 86
"Complaint of Deor, The," 155
Comte, Auguste, 51
Congreve, William, 192
"Corinna, from Athens, to Tanagra," Landor's, 124, 125
"Corinthians, St Paul's First Epistle to the," 81, 82
Corson, Dr, 6, 66, 100
Cory, William (Johnson), 123
"Cotter's Saturday Night, The," Burns's, 132, 139
Coverdale, Miles, 97,145, 158
Cowper, William, 100, 115, 192
Cranmer, Thomas, 97
Crashaw, Richard, 193
Cuthbert, 207
"Cyrano de Bergerac," 111

Daniel, Samuel, 215 Dante, 27, 79, 104, 153, 164. 197 Darwin, Charles, 154 Davenant, Sir William,
151 "Death in the Desert, A," Browning's, 6, 7 "Descent of Man," Darwin's, 154 "Deserted Village,
The," 155 Dickens, Charles, 5, 193 Dionysius, 212 "Divina Commedia," 52 "Doctor's Tale, The,"
71 "Dolores," Swinburne's, 155 "Domesday Book," 155 "Don Quixote," 105 Donne, John, 82, 89,
105, 114, 155, 193 "Dream of Boccaccio," Landor's, 82 Dryden, John, 54 Dublin, University of,
131 Dunbar, William, 193 "Dutch Republic," Motley's, 82

Earle, John, 44, 49
"Ecclesiastes," 161
"Ecclesiastical Polity," Richard Hooker's, 155
"Ecclesiasticus" 144
Education, 35 et seq.
Ehrenreich, Dr Paul, 55
"Elegy written in a Country Churchyard," Gray's, 61, 144, 164
Eliot, George, 14
Ellis, A. J., 99
Elyot, Sir Thomas, 11
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, 33, 203
"Eöthen," Kinglake's, 196
"Epipsychidion," Shelley's, 89
"Epistle to the Lady Margaret, Countess of Cumberland,"
  Samuel Daniel's, 214, 215
Erasmus, 121, 209
"Erster Schulgang," 39
"Esmond," Thackeray's, 82, 83
"Essay on Comedy," Meredith's, 110
"Essay on Man," Pope's, 144
"Essays," Bacon's, 94, 155
"Esther," 161
"Ethics," Aristotle's, 1
Euclid, 93, 131
Euripides, 19, 21, 123, 157
"Everyman," 176
"Everyman's Library," 198
Ezekiel, 161

"Faerie Queene, The," 155 "Fairchild Family, The," 40 "Festus," Bailey's, 155 "Fetch a pail
of water," 53 Fitzgerald, Edward, 118, 122, 155 Fort, Paul, 174 Fowler, F. G., 108 Fowler,
H. W., 108 Franklin, Benjamin, 90 Frere, J. H., 193 "Friar's Tale, The," 71 "Friendship's Garland,"
Matthew Arnold's, 38 Froissart, 155 Furnivall, 99

Galileo, 27 Galland, M., 43 "Gammer Grethel," 43 Gautier, Théophile, 197 "Genesis, Book of,"
213 "Geneva Bible, The," 155 Gibbon, Edward, 20, 21, 121, 131, 146, 149, 192 "Golden Treasury,"
Palgrave's, 155 Goldsmith, Oliver, 102, 105 "Gondibert," Sir William Davenant's, 151 "Grammarian's
Funeral, A," Browning's, 15 Grave, Robert Blair's, 155 Gray, Thomas, 61, 144, 164 Gregory the
Great, 207 Grimm, the brothers, 43 Grocyn, 121 Grosart, Alexander Balloch, 99 Gummere, Dr,
55, 56, 58

Hakluyt, Richard, 155 Hales, Dr, 99 Hamerton, Philip Gilbert, 3, 41 11, 23, 24 "Hamlet," 71,
127, 144, 161, 163, 203 Hammond, Mr, 190 Hammond, Mrs, 190 Hay, 211 Hazlitt, William, 202 Hegel,
25, 26 Heidelberg, University of, 76 "Here Come Three Dukes a riding," 53 "Here we go Gathering
Nuts in May," 53 Herodotus, 123 Hesiod, 197 Hobbes, Thomas, 197 Holmes, Mr, 47, 50, 51, 52
Homer, 83, 118, 146 147, 148, 149, 153, 164, 167, 195, 196 Hooker, Richard, 155 Hopkins, John,
170 Horace, 1 "Hound of Heaven, The," Thompson's, 155 "Household Tales," the Grimms; 43 Hugo,
Victor, 164 Hume, David, 192 "Hymns Ancient and Modern," 170

"Idea of a University, The," Newman's, 114 "Iliad, The," 99, 147, 148 "Imitatione Christi,
De," 138 "In Memoriam," Tennyson's, 58 Inge, Dean, 112 "Intellectual Life, The," Hamerton's,
3, 4, 23, 24 "Intimations of Immortality," Wordsworth's, 44 "Invisible Playmate, The," William
Canton's, 38 "Irish R.M., The Adventures of an," Somerville's and Ross's, 135 Irwin, Sidney,
121 Isaiah, 138, 153, 156, 161 "Isaiah, Book of," 138, 144, 153, 161 "Isthmian Odes," Pindar's, 98

Jansen, 77, Jenkinson, Mr, 184, 185 Job, 166, 167, 168, 175 et seq. "Job, Book of," 139, 144,
161 et seq. "John Bull," Bottomley's, 185 John, St, of Patmos, 7, 130, 151 Johnson, Samuel,
61, 89, 93, 105, 131, 146, 192, 193 Jonson, Ben, 102 "Joshua, Book of," 47, 136, 137 Joubert,
117 Jowett, Benjamin, 186 Jusserand, J. J., 104

Keats, John, 84, 85, 87 Keble, John, 114 "King Henry IV," Part I, 71 "King John," 71 "King
Lear," 16, 71, 163, 201 Kinglake, Alexander William, 196 "Kings, Book of," 138, 139, 141 "Kings'
Treasuries, Of," Ruskin's, 195 "Knight's Tale, The," 71

Lamb, Charles, 102, 106, 156, 197, 200 Landor, Walter Savage, 82, 117, 124, 130 Latymer, Lord
(F. B. Money-Coutts), 154, 162, 167, 183 Laus Veneris, Swinburne's, 155 Lear, Edward, 111 "Lectures
on Poetry," Keble's, 114 Leipsic, University of, 76 "Letters on a Regicide Peace," Burke's,
155 "Life of Cowley," Johnson's, 193 "Life of Johnson," Boswell's, Lincoln, Abraham, 124 "Literary
Study of the Bible," Moulton's, 162 "Lives of the Lord Chancellors," John Campbell's, 155 Longinus,
148, 149, 150, 151, 212 et seq. "Longinus on the Sublime," 149, 150, 212 et seq. M.A., AT THE
UNIVERSITY PRESS

