"

Sir, I deny this power of State legislatures altogether. It cannot stand the test of examination.
Gentlemen may say, that, in an extreme case, a State government might protect the people from
intolerable oppression. Sir, in such a case, the people might protect themselves, without the
aid of the State governments. Such a case warrants revolution. It must make, when it comes,
a law for itself. A nullifying act of a State legislature cannot alter the case, nor make resistance
any more lawful. In maintaining these sentiments, Sir, I am but asserting the rights of the
people. I state what they have declared, and insist on their right to declare it. They have
chosen to repose this power in the general government, and I think it my duty to support it,
like other constitutional powers.

For myself, Sir, I do not admit the competency of South Carolina, or any other State, to prescribe
my constitutional duty; or to settle, between me and the people, the validity of laws of Congress
for which I have voted. I decline her umpirage. I have not sworn to support the Constitution
according to her construction of its clauses. I have not stipulated, by my oath of office or
otherwise, to come under any responsibility, except to the people, and those whom they have
appointed to pass upon the question, whether laws, supported by my votes, conform to the Constitution
of the country. And, Sir, if we look to the general nature of the case, could anything have
been more preposterous, than to make a government for the whole Union, and yet leave its powers
subject, not to one interpretation, but to thirteen or twenty-four interpretations? Instead
of one tribunal, established by all, responsible to all, with power to decide for all, shall
constitutional questions be left to four-and-twenty popular bodies, each at liberty to decide
for itself, and none bound to respect the decisions of others,--and each at liberty, too, to
give a new construction on every new election of its own members? Would anything, with such
a principle in it, or rather with such a destitution of all principle, be fit to be called
a government? No, Sir. It should not be denominated a Constitution. It should be called, rather,
a collection of topics for everlasting controversy; heads of debate for a disputatious people.
It would not be a government. It would not be adequate to any practical good, or fit for any
country to live under.

To avoid all possibility of being misunderstood, allow me to repeat again, in the fullest manner,
that I claim no powers for the government by forced or unfair construction. I admit that it
is a government of strictly limited powers; of enumerated, specified, and particularized powers;
and that whatsoever is not granted, is withheld. But notwithstanding all this, and however
the grant of powers may be expressed, its limit and extent may yet, in some cases, admit of
doubt; and the general government would be good for nothing, it would be incapable of long
existing, if some mode had not been provided in which those doubts, as they should arise, might
be peaceably, but authoritatively, solved.

And now, Mr. President, let me run the honorable gentleman's doctrine a little into its practical
application. Let us look at his probable modus operandi. If a thing can be done, an ingenious
man can tell how it is to be done, and I wish to be informed how this State interference is
to be put in practice, without violence, bloodshed, and rebellion. We will take the existing
case of the tariff law. South Carolina is said to have made up her opinion upon it. If we do
not repeal it, (as we probably shall not,) she will then apply to the case the remedy of her
doctrine. She will, we must suppose, pass a law of her legislature, declaring the several acts
of Congress usually called the tariff laws null and void, so far as they respect South Carolina,
or the citizens thereof. So far, all is a paper transaction, and easy enough. But the collector
at Charleston is collecting the duties imposed by these tariff laws. He, therefore, must be
stopped. The collector will seize the goods if the tariff duties are not paid. The State authorities
will undertake their rescue, the marshal, with his posse, will come to the collector's aid,
and here the contest begins. The militia of the State will be called out to sustain the nullifying
act. They will march, Sir, under a very gallant leader; for I believe the honorable member
himself commands the militia of that part of the State. He will raise the NULLIFYING ACT on
his standard, and spread it out as his banner! It will have a preamble, setting forth that
the tariff laws are palpable, deliberate, and dangerous violations of the Constitution! He
will proceed, with this banner flying, to the custom- house in Charleston,

  "All the while
   Sonorous metal blowing martial sounds." [26]

Arrived at the custom-house, he will tell the collector that he must collect no more duties
under any of the tariff laws. This he will be somewhat puzzled to say, by the way, with a grave
countenance, considering what hand South Carolina herself had in that of 1816. But, Sir, the
collector would not, probably, desist, at his bidding. He would show him the law of Congress,
the treasury instruction, and his own oath of office. He would say, he should perform his duty,
come what come might.

Here would ensue a pause; for they say that a certain stillness precedes the tempest. The trumpeter
would hold his breath awhile, and before all this military array should fall on the custom-house,
collector, clerks, and all, it is very probable some of those composing it would request of
their gallant commander-in-chief to be informed a little upon the point of law; for they have,
doubtless, a just respect for his opinions as a lawyer, as well as for his bravery as a soldier.
They know he has read Blackstone and the Constitution, as well as Turenne and Vauban. They
would ask him, therefore, something concerning their rights in this matter. They would inquire,
whether it was not somewhat dangerous to resist a law of the United States. What would be the
nature of their offence, they would wish to learn, if they, by military force and array, resisted
the execution in Carolina of a law of the United States, and it should turn out, after all,
that the law was constitutional? He would answer, of course, Treason. No lawyer could give
any other answer. John Fries,[27] he would tell them, had learned that, some years ago. How,
then, they would ask, do you propose to defend us? We are not afraid of bullets, but treason
has a way of taking people off that we do not much relish. How do you propose to defend us?
"Look at my floating banner," he would reply; "see there the nullifying law!" Is it your opinion,
gallant commander, they would then say, that, if we should be indicted for treason, that same
floating banner of yours would make a good plea in bar? "South Carolina is a sovereign state,"
he would reply. That is true; but would the judge admit our plea? "These tariff laws," he would
repeat, "are unconstitutional, palpably, deliberately, dangerously." That may all be so; but
if the tribunal should not happen to be of that opinion, shall we swing for it? We are ready
to die for our country, but it is rather an awkward business, this dying without touching the
ground! After all, that is a sort of hemp tax worse than any part of the tariff.

Mr. President, the honorable gentleman would be in a dilemma, like that of another great general.
He would have a knot before him which he could not untie. He must cut it with his sword. He
must say to his followers, "Defend yourselves with your bayonets"; and this is war,--civil war.

Direct collision, therefore, between force and force, is the unavoidable result of that remedy
for the revision of unconstitutional laws which the gentleman contends for. It must happen
in the very first case to which it is applied. Is not this the plain result? To resist by force
the execution of a law, generally, is treason. Can the courts of the United States take notice
of the indulgence of a State to commit treason? The common saying, that a State cannot commit
treason herself, is nothing to the purpose. Can she authorize others to do it? If John Fries
had produced an act of Pennsylvania, annulling the law of Congress, would it have helped his
case? Talk about it as we will, these doctrines go the length of revolution. They are incompatible
with any peaceable administration of the government. They lead directly to disunion and civil
commotion; and therefore it is, that at their commencement, when they are first found to be
maintained by respectable men, and in a tangible form, I enter my public protest against them all.

The honorable gentleman argues, that, if this government be the sole judge of the extent of
its own powers, whether that right of judging be in Congress or the Supreme Court, it equally
subverts State sovereignty. This the gentleman sees, or thinks he sees, although he cannot
perceive how the right of judging, in this matter, if left to the exercise of State legislatures,
has any tendency to subvert the government of the Union. The gentleman's opinion may be, that
the right ought not to have been lodged with the general government; he may like better such
a constitution as we should have under the right of State interference; but I ask him to meet
me on the plain matter of fact. I ask him to meet me on the Constitution itself. I ask him
if the power is not found there, clearly and visibly found there? But, Sir, what is this danger,
and what are the grounds of it? Let it be remembered, that the Constitution of the United States
is not unalterable. It is to continue in its present form no longer than the people who established
it shall choose to continue it. If they shall become convinced that they have made an injudicious
or inexpedient partition and distribution of power between the State governments and the general
government, they can alter that distribution at will.

If anything be found in the national Constitution, either by original provision or subsequent
interpretation, which ought not to be in it, the people know how to get rid of it. If any construction,
unacceptable to them, be established, so as to become practically a part of the Constitution,
they will amend it at their own sovereign pleasure. But while the people choose to maintain
it as it is, while they are satisfied with it, and refuse to change it, who has given, or who
can give, to the State legislatures a right to alter it, either by interference, construction,
or otherwise? Gentlemen do not seem to recollect that the people have any power to do anything
for themselves. They imagine there is no safety for them, any longer than they are under the
close guardianship of the State legislatures. Sir, the people have not trusted their safety
in regard to the general Constitution to these hands. They have required other security, and
taken other bonds. They have chosen to trust themselves, first, to the plain words of the instrument,
and to such construction as the government themselves, in doubtful cases, should put on their
own powers, under their oaths of office, and subject to their responsibility to them; just
as the people of a State trust their own State governments with a similar power. Secondly,
they have reposed their trust in the efficacy of frequent elections, and in their own power
to remove their own servants and agents whenever they see cause. Thirdly, they have reposed
trust in the judicial power, which, in order that it might be trustworthy, they have made as
respectable, as disinterested, and as independent as was practicable. Fourthly, they have seen
fit to rely, in case of necessity, or high expediency, on their known and admitted power to
alter or amend the Constitution, peaceably and quietly, whenever experience shall point out
defects or imperfections. And, finally, the people of the United States have at no time, in
no way, directly or indirectly, authorized any State legislature to construe or interpret their
high instrument of government; much less to interfere, by their own power, to arrest its course
and operation.

If, Sir, the people in these respects had done otherwise than they have done, their Constitution
could neither have been preserved, nor would it have been worth preserving. And if its plain
provisions shall now be disregarded, and these new doctrines interpolated in it, it will become
as feeble and helpless a being as its enemies, whether early or more recent, could possibly
desire. It will exist in every State but as a poor dependent on State permission. It must borrow
leave to be; and will be, no longer than State pleasure, or State discretion, sees fit to grant
the indulgence, and to prolong its poor existence.

But, Sir, although there are fears, there are hopes also. The people have preserved this, their
own chosen Constitution, for forty years, and have seen their happiness, prosperity, and renown
grow with its growth, and strengthen with its strength. They are now, generally, strongly attached
to it. Overthrown by direct assault, it cannot be; evaded, undermined, NULLIFIED, it will not
be, if we and those who shall succeed us here as agents and representatives of the people shall
conscientiously and vigilantly discharge the two great branches of our public trust, faithfully
to preserve, and wisely to administer it.

Mr. President, I have thus stated the reasons of my dissent to the doctrines which have been
advanced and maintained. I am conscious of having detained you and the Senate much too long.
I was drawn into the debate with no previous deliberation, such as is suited to the discussion
of so grave and important a subject. But it is a subject of which my heart is full, and I have
not been willing to suppress the utterance of its spontaneous sentiments. I cannot, even now,
persuade myself to relinquish it, without expressing once more my deep conviction, that, since
it respects nothing less than the Union of the States, it is of most vital and essential importance
to the public happiness. I profess, Sir, in my career hitherto, to have kept steadily in view
the prosperity and honor of the whole country, and the preservation of our Federal Union. It
is to that Union we owe our safety at home, and our consideration and dignity abroad. It is
to that Union that we are chiefly indebted for whatever makes us most proud of our country.
That Union we reached only by the discipline of our virtues in the severe school of adversity.
It had its origin in the necessities of disordered finance, prostrate commerce, and ruined
credit. Under its benign influences, these great interests immediately awoke, as from the dead,
and sprang forth with newness of life. Every year of its duration has teemed with fresh proofs
of its utility and its blessings; and although our territory has stretched out wider and wider,
and our population spread farther and farther, they have not outrun its protection or its benefits.
It has been to us all a copious fountain of national, social, and personal happiness.

I have not allowed myself, Sir, to look beyond the Union, to see what might lie hidden in the
dark recess behind. I have not coolly weighed the chances of preserving liberty when the bonds
that unite us together shall be broken asunder. I have not accustomed myself to hang over the
precipice of disunion, to see whether, with my short sight, I can fathom the depth of the abyss
below; nor could I regard him as a safe counsellor in the affairs of this government, whose
thoughts should be mainly bent on considering, not how the Union may be best preserved, but
how tolerable might be the condition of the people when it should be broken up and destroyed.
While the Union lasts, we have high, exciting, gratifying prospects spread out before us, for
us and our children. Beyond that I seek not to penetrate the veil. God grant that, in my day,
at least, that curtain may not rise! God grant that on my vision never may be opened what lies
behind! When my eyes shall be turned to behold for the last time the sun in heaven, may I not
see him shining on the broken and dishonored fragments of a once glorious Union; on States
dissevered, discordant, belligerent; on a land rent with civil feuds, or drenched, it may be,
in fraternal blood! Let their last feeble and lingering glance rather behold the gorgeous ensign
of the republic, now known and honored throughout the earth, still full high advanced, its
arms and trophies streaming in their original lustre, not a stripe erased or polluted, nor
a single star obscured, bearing for its motto, no such miserable interrogatory as "What is
all this worth?" nor those other words of delusion and folly, "Liberty first and Union afterwards";
but everywhere, spread all over in characters of living light, blazing on all its ample folds,
as they float over the sea and over the land, and in every wind under the whole heavens, that
other sentiment, dear to every true American heart,--Liberty and Union, now and for ever, one
and inseparable! [28]

The Murder of Captain Joseph White.

I am little accustomed, Gentlemen, to the part which I am now attempting to perform. Hardly
more than once or twice has it happened to me to be concerned on the side of the government
in any criminal prosecution whatever; and never, until the present occasion, in any case affecting
life.

But I very much regret that it should have been thought necessary to suggest to you that I
am brought here to "hurry you against the law and beyond the evidence." I hope I have too much
regard for justice, and too much respect for my own character, to attempt either; and 10 were
I to make such attempt, I am sure that in this court nothing can be carried against the law,
and that gentlemen, intelligent and just as you are, are not, by any power, to be hurried beyond
the evidence. Though I could well have wished to shun this occasion, I have not felt at liberty
to withhold my professional assistance, when it is supposed that I may be in some degree useful
in investigating and discovering the truth respecting this most extraordinary murder. It has
seemed to be a duty incumbent on me, as on every other citizen, to do my best and my utmost
to bring to light the perpetrators of this crime. Against the prisoner at the bar, as an individual,
I cannot have the slightest prejudice. I would not do him the smallest injury or injustice.
But I do not affect to be indifferent to the discovery and the punishment of this deep guilt.
I cheerfully share in the opprobrium, how great soever it may be, which is cast on those who
feel and manifest an anxious concern that all who had a part in planning, or a hand in executing,
this deed of midnight assassination, may be brought to answer for their enormous crime at the
bar of public justice.

Gentlemen, it is a most extraordinary case. In some respects, it has hardly a precedent anywhere;
certainly none in our New England history. This bloody drama exhibited no suddenly excited,
ungovernable rage. The actors in it were not surprised by any lion-like temptation springing
upon their virtue, and overcoming it, before resistance could begin. Nor did they do the deed
to glut savage vengeance, or satiate long-settled and deadly hate. It was a cool, calculating,
money-making murder. It was all "hire and salary, not revenge." It was the weighing of money
against life; the counting out of so many pieces of silver against so many ounces of blood.

An aged man, without an enemy in the world, in his own house, and in his own bed, is made the
victim of a butcherly murder, for mere pay. Truly, here is a new lesson for painters and poets.
Whoever shall hereafter draw the portrait of murder, if he will show it as it has been exhibited,
where such example was last to have been looked for, in the very bosom of our New England society,
let him not give it the grim visage of Moloch, the brow knitted by revenge, the face black
with settled hate, and the bloodshot eye emitting livid fires of malice. Let him draw, rather,
a decorous, smooth-faced, bloodless demon; a picture in repose, rather than in action; not
so much an example of human nature in its depravity, and in its paroxysms of crime, as an infernal
being, a fiend, in the ordinary display and development of his character.

The deed was executed with a degree of self-possession and steadiness equal to the wickedness
with which it was planned. The circumstances now clearly in evidence spread out the whole scene
before us. Deep sleep had fallen on the destined victim, and on all beneath his roof. A healthful
old man, to whom sleep was sweet, the first sound slumbers of the night held him in their soft
but strong embrace. The assassin enters, through the window already prepared, into an unoccupied
apartment. With noiseless foot he paces the lonely hall, half lighted by the moon; he winds
up the ascent of the stairs, and reaches the door of the chamber. Of this, he moves the lock,
by soft and continued pressure, till it turns on its hinges without noise; and he enters, and
beholds his victim before him. The room is uncommonly open to the admission of light. The face
of the innocent sleeper is turned from the murderer, and the beams of the moon, resting on
the gray locks of his aged temple, show him where to strike. The fatal blow is given! and the
victim passes, without a struggle or a motion, from the repose of sleep to the repose of death!
It is the assassin's purpose to make sure work; and he plies the dagger, though it is obvious
that life has been destroyed by the blow of the bludgeon. He even raises the aged arm, that
he may not fail in his aim at the heart, and replaces it again over the wounds of the poinard!
To finish the picture, he explores the wrist for the pulse! He feels for it, and ascertains
that it beats no longer! It is accomplished. The deed is done. He retreats, retraces his steps
to the window, passes out through it as he came in, and escapes. He has done the murder. No
eye has seen him, no ear has heard him. The secret is his own, and it is safe!

Ah! Gentlemen, that was a dreadful mistake. Such a secret can be safe nowhere. The whole creation
of God has neither nook nor corner where the guilty can bestow it, and say it is safe. Not
to speak of that eye which pierces all disguises, and beholds every thing as in the splendor
of noon, such secrets of guilt are never safe from detection, even by men. True it is, generally
speaking, that "murder will out." True it is, that Providence hath so ordained, and doth so
govern things, that those who break the great law of Heaven by shedding man's blood seldom
succeed in avoiding discovery. Especially, in a case exciting so much attention as this, discovery
must come, and will come, sooner or later. A thousand eyes turn at once to explore every man,
every thing, every circumstance, connected with the time and place; a thousand ears catch every
whisper; a thousand excited minds intensely dwell on the scene, shedding all their light, and
ready to kindle the slightest circumstance into a blaze of discovery. Meantime the guilty soul
cannot keep its own secret. It is false to itself; or rather it feels an irresistible impulse
of conscience to be true to itself. It labors under its guilty possession, and knows not what
to do with it. The human heart was not made for the residence of such an inhabitant. It finds
itself preyed on by a torment, which it dares not acknowledge to God or man. A vulture is devouring
it, and it can ask no sympathy or assistance, either from heaven or earth. The secret which
the murderer possesses soon comes to possess him; and, like the evil spirits of which we read,
it overcomes him, and leads him whithersoever it will. He feels it beating at his heart, rising
to his throat, and demanding disclosure. He thinks the whole world sees it in his face, reads
it in his eyes, and almost hears its workings in the very silence of his thoughts. It has become
his master. It betrays his discretion, it breaks down his courage, it conquers his prudence.
When suspicions from without begin to embarrass him, and the net of circumstances to entangle
him, the fatal secret struggles with still greater violence to burst forth. It must be confessed,
it will be confessed; there is no refuge from confession but suicide, and suicide is confession.[1]

Much has been said, on this occasion, of the excitement which has existed, and still exists,
and of the extraordinary measures taken to discover and punish the guilty. No doubt there has
been, and is, much excitement, and strange indeed it would be had it been otherwise. Should
not all the peaceable and well-disposed naturally feel concerned, and naturally exert themselves
to bring to punishment the authors of this secret assassination? Was it a thing to be slept
upon or forgotten? Did you, Gentlemen, sleep quite as quietly in your beds after this murder
as before? Was it not a case for rewards, for meetings, for committees, for the united efforts
of all the good, to find out a band of murderous conspirators, of midnight ruffians, and to
bring them to the bar of justice and law? If this be excitement, is it an unnatural or an improper
excitement?

It seems to me, Gentlemen, that there are appearances of another feeling, of a very different
nature and character; not very extensive, I would hope, but still there is too much evidence
of its existence. Such is human nature, that some persons lose their abhorrence of crime in
their admiration of its magnificent exhibitions. Ordinary vice is reprobated by them, but extraordinary
guilt, exquisite wickedness, the high flights and poetry of crime, seize on the imagination,
and lead them to forget the depths of the guilt, in admiration of the excellence of the performance,
or the unequalled atrocity of the purpose. There are those in our day who have made great use
of this infirmity of our nature, and by means of it done infinite injury to the cause of good
morals. They have affected not only the taste, but I fear also the principles, of the young,
the heedless, and the imaginative, by the exhibition of interesting and beautiful monsters.
They render depravity attractive, sometimes by the polish of its manners, and sometimes by
its very extravagance; and study to show off crime under all the advantages of cleverness and
dexterity. Gentlemen, this is an extraordinary murder, but it is still a murder. We are not
to lose ourselves in wonder at its origin, or in gazing on its cool and skilful execution.
We are to detect and to punish it; and while we proceed with caution against the prisoner,
and are to be sure that we do not visit on his head the offences of others, we are yet to consider
that we are dealing with a case of most atrocious crime, which has not the slightest circumstance
about it to soften its enormity. It is murder; deliberate, concerted, malicious murder.

Although the interest of this case may have diminished by the repeated investigation of the
facts; still, the additional labor which it imposes upon all concerned is not to be regretted,
if it should result in removing all doubts of the guilt of the prisoner.

The learned counsel for the prisoner has said truly, that it is your individual duty to judge
the prisoner; that it is your individual duty to determine his guilt or innocence; and that
you are to weigh the testimony with candor and fairness. But much at the same time has been
said, which, though it would seem to have no distinct bearing on the trial, cannot be passed
over without some notice.

A tone of complaint so peculiar has been indulged, as would almost lead us to doubt whether
the prisoner at the bar, or the managers of this prosecution, are now on trial. Great pains
have been taken to complain of the manner of the prosecution. We hear of getting up a case;
of setting in motion trains of machinery; of foul testimony; of combinations to overwhelm the
prisoner; of private prosecutors; that the prisoner is hunted, persecuted, driven to his trial;
that everybody is against him; and various other complaints, as if those who would bring to
punishment the authors of this murder were almost as bad as they who committed it.

In the course of my whole life, I have never heard before so much said about the particular
counsel who happen to be employed; as if it were extraordinary that other counsel than the
usual officers of the government should assist in the management of a case on the part of the
government.[2] In one of the last criminal trials in this county, that of Jackman for the "Goodridge
robbery" (so called), I remember that the learned head of the Suffolk Bar, Mr. Prescott, came
down in aid of the officers of the government. This was regarded as neither strange nor improper.
The counsel for the prisoner, in that case, contented themselves with answering his arguments,
as far as they were able, instead of carping at his presence.

Complaint is made that rewards were offered, in this case, and temptations held out to obtain
testimony. Are not rewards always offered, when great and secret offences are committed? Rewards
were offered in the case to which I have alluded; and every other means taken to discover the
offenders, that ingenuity or the most persevering vigilance could suggest. The learned counsel
have suffered their zeal to lead them into a strain of complaint at the manner in which the
perpetrators of this crime were detected, almost indicating that they regard it as a positive
injury to them to have found but their guilt. Since no man witnessed it, since they do not
now confess it, attempts to discover it are half esteemed as officious intermeddling and impertinent
inquiry.

