"And then a child dying, leaving this good world of ours, seems to have had so small a chance
for itself. There is something in all of us struggling against oblivion, striving vainly to
make some real impress on the current of time, and a child, dying, can only clutch the hands
about it and go down--forever. It seems so merciless, so unfair. Perhaps that is why, all over
the world, the little graves are cared for best. It is to the little graves that we turn in
our keenest anguish and not to the larger mounds; to the little graves that our hearts are
drawn in our hours of triumph. And so the child, though dead, lives its appointed time and
dies only in the fullness of its years. The little shoes, the little dresses, the 'little tin
soldiers covered with rust,' and the memories sweeter than dreams of a honeymoon, these are
life's immortelles that never fade. And though men and women come and go upon the earth, though
civilisations may wither and pass, these little images remain; and the sun and the stars, which
see men come and go, may see these little idols before which every creature bows, and the sun
and stars, knowing no time, may think these children's relics are also eternal.

"It is a desperately lonely home, that Yengst home, with the little girl gone away on a long
journey; but how tight and close other fathers and mothers hugged their little ones last night
when their hearts came back from the house of sorrow. And the little ones, feeling no fear,
unconscious of the pang of terror that was shooting through the souls about them--the children
played on, and maybe, before dropping to sleep, wondered a little at anxious looks they saw
in grown-up eyes.

"This is the faith of a little child, curious but implicit, in the goodness of those things
outside one's self. And 'of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.'"

A day or so after the wedding someone said to him: "Mehronay, sometimes your pieces make me
cry," and he replied with all the fine sincerity of his heart showing in his eyes: "Yes--and
if you only knew how they make me cry! Sometimes when I have written one like--like that--I
go to my bed and sob like a child." He turned and walked away, but he came into the office
whistling "The Dutch Company."

After his wedding we made brave, in a sly way, to rail at Mehronay about his love affair, and
he took it good-naturedly. He knew the situation just as it was; his sense of humour allowed
him no false view of the matter. One afternoon when the paper was out, George Kirwin, the foreman,
and one of the reporters and Mehronay were in the back room leaning against the imposing-stones
looking over the paper, when Kirwin said: "Say, Mehronay, how did you get yourself screwed
up to ask her?"

It was spoken in a joke. The two young men were grinning, but Mehronay looked at the floor
in a study as he said:

"Well, to be honest--damfino if I ever did--just exactly." He smiled reflectively in a pause
and continued: "Nearest I remember was one night we was sitting with our feet on the base-burner
and I looked up and says, 'Hell's afire, Commie'--I called her that for short--'why in the
devil don't a fine woman like you get married? She got up and come over to where I was a-sitting
and before I could say Lordamighty, she put her hand on my shoulder and says real soft and
solemn: 'I'll just be damned if I don't believe I will.'"

He did not smile when he looked up, but sighed contentedly as he added reverently: "And so,
by hell, she did!" If Columbia Merley Mehronay had known this language which her husband's
innocent inadvertence put into her mouth she would have strangled him--even then.

We did not have Mehronay with us more than a year after his wedding. Mrs. Mehronay knew what
he was worth. She asked for twenty-five dollars a week for him, and when we told her the office
could not afford it she took him away. They went to New York City, where she peddled his pieces
about town until she got him a regular place. There they have lived happily ever after. Mehronay
brings his envelope home every Saturday night, and she gives him his carfare and his shaving-money
and puts the rest where it will do the most good. When the men from our office go to New York--which
they sometimes do--they visit with Mehronay at his office, and sometimes--if there is time
for due and proper notice of the function in writing--there is an invitation to dinner. Mehronay
fondles his old friends as a child fondles its playmates and he takes eager pleasure in them,
but she that was Columbia Merley all but searches their pockets for the tempter.

Mehronay has never broken his word. He knows if he does break it she will tear him limb from
limb and eat him raw. So he goes to his work, writes his pieces, hums his gentle bee-song--so
that men do not like to room with him at the office--and has learned to keep himself fairly
well buttoned up in the great city. But Miss Larrabee that was--who used to edit the society
page for our paper, but who now lives in New York--told us when she was home that as she was
walking down Fourth Avenue one winter day when the street was empty, she saw Mehronay standing
before the window of a liquor store looking intently at the display of bottled goods before
him. When he saw her half a block away he turned from her and shuffled rapidly down the street,
clicking his cane nervously.

It was not for him!

XVIII

Sown in Our Weakness

When one comes to know an animal well--say a horse or a cow or a dog--and sees how sensibly
it acts, following the rules of conduct laid down by the wisdom of its kind, one cannot help
wondering how much happier, and healthier, and better, human beings would be if they used the
discretion of the animals. For ages men have been taught what is good for their bodies and
their minds and their souls. There has been no question about the wisdom of being temperate
and industrious and honest and kind; and the folly of immoderation and laziness and chicanery
and meanness is so well known that a geometrical proposition has not been more definitely proved.
Yet only a few people in any community observe the rules of life, and of these few no one observes
them all; and so misery and pain and poverty and anguish are as a pestilence among men, and
they wonder why they are living in such a cruel world. It was Eli Martin who, back in the seventies,
won the prize in the Bethel neighbourhood for reciting more chapters of the Old Testament than
any other child in Sunday-school; and the old McGuffey's Reader that he used on week-days was
filled with moral tales; but someway when it came to applying the rules he had learned, and
the moral that the stories pointed, Eli Martin lacked the sense of a dog or a horse. Once,
when the paper contained an account of one of Red Martin's police court escapades, George Kirwin
recalled that, when we offered a prize during the Christmas season of 1880, for the best essay
by a child under twelve, it was Ethelwylde Swaney who won the prize with an essay on the Weakness
of Vanity; and she married Eli Martin when she and the whole town knew what he was.

Naturally one would suppose that two persons so full of theoretical wisdom would have applied
it, and that in applying it they would have been the happiest and most useful people in all
the town; but instead they were probably the most miserable people in town, and Mrs. Martin,
whom we knew better than Red, because she once had worked in the office, was forever bemoaning
what she called her "lot," though we knew for many years that her "lot" was not the result
of the fates against her, but merely the inevitable consequence of her temperament.

Before we put in linotypes and set our type by machinery it was set by girls. Usually we employed
half-a-dozen, who came from the town high school. They kept coming and going, as girls do who
work in country towns, getting married in their twenties or finding something better than printing,
and it is likely that in ten years as many as fifty girls have worked in the office, and be
it said to the credit of the girls--which cannot be said of so many of the boys and men who
have worked in the shop--that they were girls we were proud of--all but Ethelwylde Swaney.

She that we called the Princess worked in the office less than two years, but the memory of
her still lingers, though hardly could one say like "the scent of the roses"; for the Princess
was not merely a poor compositor, she was the kind that would make mistakes and blame others
for them, and that kind never learns. Though she ran away to marry Red Martin--which was her
own mistake--this habit of blaming others for her faults was so strong that she never forgave
her mother for making the match. We know in our office that Mrs. Swaney did not dream that
the girl was even going with Red Martin until they were married. Yet the Martin neighbours
for twenty years have blamed Mrs. Swaney. When the Princess was in the office we found out
that the truth wasn't in her; also we discovered that she was lazy and that she cried too easily.
Right at the busy hour in the afternoon we used to catch her with a type in her fingers and
her hand poised in the air, looking off into space for a minute at a time, and when we spoke
to her she would put her head on her case and cry softly; and the foreman would have to apologise
before she would go back to work. Even then she would have to take the broken piece of looking-glass
that she kept in her capital "K" box and make an elaborate toilet before settling down. Moreover,
though she was only seventeen, much of the foreman's time was spent chasing dirty-faced little
boys away from her case, and if some boy didn't have his elbow in her quad box, she was off
her stool visiting either with some other girl, or standing by the stove drying her hands--she
was eternally drying her hands--and talking to one of the men. In all the year and a half that
she was in the office the Princess never learned how to help herself. When she had to dump
her type, she had to call some man from his work to help her--and then there would be more
conversation.

But we kept her and were patient with her on account of her father, John Swaney, a hard-working
man who was trying to make something of the Princess, so we put up with her perfumery and her
powder rags and her royal airs, and did all we could to teach her the difference between a
comma and a period--though she never really learned; and we were still patient with her, even
when she deliberately pied a lot of type after being corrected for some piece of carelessness
or worse. We made due allowances for the Rutherford temper, which her father warned us not
to arouse. Nevertheless, her mother came to the office one winter day in her black straw hat
with a veil around it, and with the coat she had worn for ten years, to tell us that she was
afraid working in the shop would hurt her daughter's social standing. So the Princess walked
out that night in a gust of musk--in her picture hat and sweeping cloak, with bangles tinkling
and petticoat swishing--and the office knew her no more forever.

About the time that the Princess left the office to improve her social standing, Eli Martin
and his big mule team came to town from the Bethel neighbourhood. He was as likely a looking
red-headed country boy as you ever saw. We were laying the town waterworks pipes that year,
and Eli and his team had work all summer. On the street he towered above the other men several
inches in height, and he looked big and muscular and masculine in his striped undershirt and
blue overalls, as he worked with his team in the hot sun. Of course, the Princess would not
have seen him in those days. Her nose was seeking a higher social level, and the clerks in
the White Front dry-goods store formed the pinnacle of her social ideal. But Eli Martin was
naturally what in our parlance we call a ladies' man, and he was not long in learning that
the wide-brimmed black hat, the ready-made faded green suit and the red string necktie which
had swept the girls down before him in the Bethel neighbourhood would accomplish little in
town. So when winter came, and work with his team was hard to get, he sold his mules and bedecked
himself in fine linen. He had a few hundred dollars saved up, so he lived in the cabbage smells
of the Astor House, and fancied that he was enjoying the refinements of a great city. Time
hung heavily upon him, and at night he joined the switchmen and certain young men of leisure
in the town in a more or less friendly game of poker in the rooms at the head of the dark stairway
on South Main Street.

When spring came the young man had no desire and little need to go back to work, for by that
time he was known as Lucky Red. In a year the sunburn left him and he grew white and thin.
He went to Kansas City for a season, and became known among gamblers as far west as Denver;
but he was only a tin-horn gambler in the big cities, while in our town he was at the head
of his profession, so he came back and opened a room of his own. He came back in a blaze of
glory; to wit: a long grey frock coat with trousers to match, pleated white shirts studded
with blinding diamonds, a small white hat dented jauntily on three sides, a matted lump of
red hair on the back of his head and a dashing red curl combed extravagantly low on his forehead.
Before he left town for his foreign tour Red Martin used to hang about the churches Sunday
evenings, peering through the blinds and making eyes at the girls; but upon his return he had
risen to another social level. He had acquired a cart with red wheels and a three-minute horse;
so he dropped from his social list the girls who "worked out" and made eyes at those young
women who lived at home, gadding around town evenings, picking up boys on the street and forever
talking about their "latest."

It was the most natural thing in the world that Red and the Princess should find each other,
and six months before the elopement we heard that the Princess was riding about the country
with him in the red-wheeled cart. For after she left the office in one way and another we had
kept track of the girl--sometimes through her father, who, being a carpenter, was frequently
called to the office to fix up a door or a window; sometimes through the other girls in the
office, and sometimes through Alphabetical Morrison, whose big family of girl school-teachers
made him a storage battery of social information.

