  It caught me hard this morning when I dressed
    And read the mirror's verdict. Ah, the pain
  Is gnawing like a canker at my breast,
    Is beating like a hammer in my brain;
    I must speak out or break beneath the strain.
  I'm going bald on top. O cruel reef
    Where youthful hopes lie wrecked! O dismal lane
  Whose end is but the sere and yellow leaf!

  ENVOI.

  Prince (Mr. Punch)! on Armageddon's plain
    My love-locks fell a prey to Time, the thief.
  Regrets are useless, unguents are in vain;
    Only remains the sere and yellow leaf.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COMMERCIAL TOUCH.

    "Presiding at the concert given in connection with the ---- Art
    Club's annual exhibition of oil and water-colours, Mr. ----
    congratulated the club on the quality of its paintings, which, he
    thought, were remarkably cheap when cognisance was taken of the
    present high prices of materials."--Provincial Paper.

This critic has, as the Art jargon puts it, "a nice feeling for values."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "HOW I DIFFER FROM MY MOTHER."

    By A Modern Woman.

    'Women differ by the width of Heaven from what their mothers
    were.'--MR. JUSTICE DARLING.

    "I do not smoke and I do not wear bare-back dresses, but I agree with
    Mr. Justice Darling--there is the width of Heaven between my mother
    and I."--Evening News.

Let's hope so, in the matter of grammar.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUMOUR'S LABOUR LOST.

    Lochtermachty, N.B. May 29th, 1919.

    DEAR MR. PUNCH,--My father and I have fallen out over the question
    of your literary judgment and sense of humour. If I weren't a filial
    daughter I'd say that he's a ----; but I am, so I won't call him
    names.

    The fact is that, before he became a professional Padre, he didn't
    know that such things as senses of humour existed. All that mattered
    in his life were Latin and Greek and Hebrew and the other pursuits
    of the classical scholar. However, during his wanderings with
    the Army he has somehow managed to acquire what he calls "an
    appreciation of the laughable." And that is the cause of our divided
    house.

    This morning at breakfast, while he was reading out the account
    of the proceedings of the General Assemblies, he came upon the
    interesting statement--volunteered by an eminent Edinburgh
    divine--that all the ministers of the Kirk have lost a stone in
    weight during the War, and that this works out at a loss of five
    tons of ministerial flesh to the United Free Church of Scotland.
    Then, after he had tested the accuracy of the statistics, which he
    found quite incorrect, and I had meditated upon the bulk of matter
    encircled by the parental Sam Browne, we were both seized with an
    idea, and said "Punch!" at the same instant.

    It took us some time to get rid of the accumulation of marmalade,
    margarine and bacon fat which we amassed in our attempts to link
    fingers across the table; but about 10.30 or so we got settled down
    to work on your behalf.

    Until lunch-time we were fully occupied in giving each other ideas
    and then explaining why they wouldn't work. After lunch the
    Padre retired to his study to work out, he said, a satire--after
    ARISTOPHANES--which would afford him an opportunity of introducing
    the Archbishop of CANTERBURY'S speech, and making some whimsical
    allusions to the legend of the strayed lamb come back to tell his
    lean Scotch brethren of the green meadows and luscious feeding to be
    had across the Borders.

    My own ambitions were slighter. I would do a conversation perhaps
    between the shades of JOHNSON and his BOZZY, or a Limerick, or even
    just an original witty remark, or, failing all of these, I would
    select an "apt quotation." About tea-time I retired to the garden
    with a notebook, a pencil and a book of quotations. By 6.30 I had a
    list of one hundred and two, and was wavering over the final choice
    of a parody on "Some hae meat wha canna eat," and an adaptation of
    "Be sooople, Davie, in things immaterial," when my parent came
    out to the lawn, flushed and excited, with his last three hairs
    triumphantly erect, and brandished a document in my face.

    It was an ode, Mr. Punch--an ode five (foolscap) pages long, written
    in Greek!

    I gave him best at once, and then very gently suggested that his
    composition might not in its present unmitigated form be quite
    suited to your tastes and requirements.

    I shall spare you the details of the ensuing controversy, but I want
    you to know that I have spared you much else, and in so doing have
    forfeited not only my father's affection but a projected advance on
    my next quarter-but-three's dress allowance.

    I hope you need no further proof of my devotion.

    Yours, etc.,

    A DAUGHTER OF THE MANSE.

    P.S.--I was forgetting to say that you will find the bit about the
    ministers near the bottom of the third column of the tenth page of
    Thursday's Scotsman. Perhaps you can think of a funny treatment
    yourself.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF SIMLA.

III.--THE FURRIER.

  Akbar the furrier squats on the floor
    Sucking an Eastern pipe,
  Thumbing the lakhs that he's made of yore,
  Lakhs which creep to the long-dreamed crore
    In a ledger of Western type.

  And all around him the wild beasts sway,
    Cured of their mortal ills--
  Flying squirrels from Sikkim way,
  Silver foxes that used to play
    Up on the Kashmir hills.

  On the shelf of a cupboard a polecat lies
    Laughing between his paws,
  And there's more than a hint of amused surprise
  In the gape of the lynx, in the marten's eyes,
    In the poise of the grey wolf's claws.

  And, should you enter old Akbar's lair
    And hear what he wants for his skins,
  You will know why the little red squirrels stare,
  Why the Bengal tiger gasps for air
    And the gaunt snow-leopard grins.

  J.M.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Telephone Girl's motto: Nulla linea sine die--"Number engaged; ring again and again, please."

       *       *       *       *       *

ALAS! POOR PANTHER.

I went to the Derby fully intending to back the favourite--The Panther.

But the cross-currents immediately set in--as they always do.

I began by making the mistake of reading the forecasts of all the experts--the gallant Captains
and Majors, the Men on the Course, the Men on the Heath, the Men on the Spot--all of whom,
although they mostly favoured The Panther, had serious views as to dangerous rivals, supported
by what looked like uncontrovertible arguments.

I also had an early evening paper with a summary of forecasts, none of which (as it was to
turn out) mentioned the winner at all.

I was even so foolish as to glance at some of the advertisements of the wizards who are so
ready to put the benefit of their knowledge at the service of the public and make fortunes
for others rather (apparently) than for themselves, all of whom hinted at some mysterious long-priced
outsider whose miraculous qualities of speed were a secret. But of course I was too late to
profit by these; they merely unsettled me.

Not content with this I was forced to overhear the conversation of others in our compartment,
each of whom fancied a separate animal, arguing with reasons that could not be gainsaid.

In this way I learned that The Panther would win in a canter and would be badly beaten; that
he was a stranger to the Epsom course; that he was ready for anything; that he liked soft going;
that he was no good except when he could hear his hoofs rattle; that his jockey was not strong
enough; that his jockey was ideal; that he was sounder than any horse had ever been, and that
trouble was brewing.

All this naturally left me shaken as to my first decision. Was I wise, I asked myself, to trust
all my eggs (forgive, Sir ALEC BLACK, the poorness of this metaphor) to one doubtful basket?

Having admitted an element of doubt I was the prey of every suspicion and began to consider
the other candidates. All Alone headed the list. I liked the name, because it suggested the
corollary: the rest nowhere. Also it belonged to a lady--to the only lady owner, in fact--and
lady--owners were said (by a man with a red beard opposite me who smoked cigarettes so short
that I was certain it was made of dyed asbestos) to be in luck this season. "Always follow
the luck," he added. But then, on the other hand, what could be more lucky than Colonel BUCHAN,
author of Mr. Standfast and an excellent History of the War, into whose lap so many good things
fall? Why not back a horse named after him? Besides, was not Buchan third favourite?

I was making a note of Buchan's claims, when a man with a Thermos flask lashed to his side
began to praise Dominion. Dominion, it seems, was third in the Two Thousand Guineas--only just
behind Buchan, who was just behind The Panther. Many people thought The Panther unduly lucky
that day. A very different course, too, at Newmarket from that at Epsom. Obviously Dominion
must be remembered. Moreover he was being greatly fancied and some of the best judges looked
to him to win the Blue Riband for Lord GLANELY. The fact that Lord GLANELY drew his own horse
in the Baltic Sweep was not to be sneezed at either, said some one. That's an omen if there
ever was one! And it knocked out Lord GLANELY'S other horse, Grand Parade.

"Well, here's a tip," cried a man with a frock-coat and a straw hat. "Blest if I've got a single
coin left--nothing but paper money. That's good enough for me. I shall back Paper Money."

The carriage agreed that that was his duty. "Of course you must," they said. "When everyone
disagrees in the way that the experts do, you might as well take a tip like that as anything."

Paper Money had therefore to be added also to my list of possibles.

"Besides," said another man, "DONOGHUE rides him; our leading jockey, you know." I had forgotten
to look at the jockeys' names. How absurd! Of course one must back DONOGHUE.

But just then, "Give me WHALLEY," said the man with the asbestos beard, and, as WHALLEY was
riding Bay of Naples, I had to consider him too. Naples was a jolly place and I had had a lot
of fun there. Hadn't I better make that my tip?

But, on the other hand, what about Tangiers? I had had fun there too, and more than one fellow-passenger
had darkly hinted that this was a much better animal than public form proclaimed. Looking for
particulars, I found that he once "ran Galloper Light to a head;" which had a promising sound.
He was trained at Lambourne too, and I like Lambourne. There is a good inn there and it is
a fine walk to White Horse Hill.

"Well," said another man, who had been borrowing matches from his neighbour ever since Victoria,
"I always had a feeling for a Marcovil colt. Marcovil is a good sire. I 've had some very special
information about Milton, the Marcovil colt, to-day."

MILTON!--one of my favourite poets, and also one of Mr. ASQUITH'S, as he said in that lecture
last week. Yes, but is Mr. ASQUITH exactly lucky just now? Perhaps not. And did not MILTON
write Paradise Lost? True. But, on the other hand, he wrote Paradise Regained. You see how
difficult tip-hunting can be!

And so it went on and I emerged from the Epsom Downs station in a maze of indecision, in which
one fact and one only shone with crystal clearness, and that was that whatever won the race
The Panther had no better chance, even though it had been made favourite, than any other.

"Besides," as one of the two men who sat on my knees had said, "What's a favourite anyway?
Very often a horse is made a favourite by the bookies, in conjunction with the Press, just
so as everyone will back it. No, no favourites for me. Give me a likely outsider at good odds.
Look what you have to put on The Panther to win anything."

In the result I backed--well, I am not going to tell you; but they "also ran."

The moral of this story--if it has one--is either don't bet at all, or, if you do bet, draw
the horse from a hat at random, and, having drawn it, stick to it. No one, as the failure of
The Panther proves, can possibly know more than you.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TECHNICAL TERMS.

When Ernest asked me to take a run in his car I took advantage of the invitation because there
are times when I think that life is less joyful without a car and that one day I shall slip
out and buy one. I should love to grip the wheel and sweep the countryside and listen to the
soft purr of the engine. So we started sweeping the countryside, Ernest and I; but we had not
swept very much of it before the soft purr developed a kind of cough and the car stopped.

Ernest coaxed and petted her. He tried kindness, while I helped him with sarcasm. He tried
hauteur and then a little bad temper.

Eventually he decided to send for the local motor engineer, and it was when this gentleman
arrived with his mate that I decided that motoring was not for me and that I should have to
fall back on fretwork or tame mice for my recreation.

"Here, Bill," said Overalls-in-Chief, "just hold up the Ding-dong."

His mate did as instructed and up went the Ding-dong.

"Now hand me the Doo-dal," he went on; "and while I tune up the old Jig-jig you get the Pipety-pip
and clean it out.

"Now get the Tick-tick and just give me a tap here with the Ooh-jah, while I give the Thing-a-me-tight
a couple for his nob.

"See that?" he shouted at me. "Would you believe it? Easy as winking. See, it was like this.
The What's-a-name here, as kept the Tiddley-um-tum in place, was sort of riding on the Squeak-box,
so as the Tiddley-om-pom and the other Jigger sort of gave the half-seas-over to the Thing-a-me-bob
and missed the Rum-ti-tum. Simple, ain't it, Guv'nor?"

"Yes," I answered, "quite simple."

But I have decided to give up all idea of buying a car. I should never learn the language.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITTLE GREY WATER.

  Little Grey Water, my heart is with you
    In the loop of the hills where the lone heron feeds,
  Where your cloak is a cloud with a lining of blue,
    And your lover a wind riding over the reeds.

  Little Grey Water, I know that you know
    What the teal and the black duck are dreaming at noon,
  And the way of the wistful wild geese as they go
    Through the haze of the hills to keep tryst with the moon.

  Little Grey Water, folk say and they say
    That the homing hill-shepherd, benighted, has heard
  A song in the reeds, 'twixt the dawn and the day,
    That was never the song of a breeze or a bird.

  But I know you so silent, so silent and still,
    And so proud of your trust that you'll never betray
  What the fairies that gather from Grundiston Hill
    Tell the stars before morning to witch them away.

  W.H.O.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, June 2nd.--The Lords seldom sit die Lunae, and were perhaps feeling what humbler folk
call "rather Mondayish" at being summoned from their week-end pleasaunces to put the Local
Government (Ireland) Bill through its final stages. Anyhow they developed some eleventh-hour
criticisms. The sad case of the Belfast Water Commissioners attracted Lord STUART OF WORTLEY.
There are fifteen of them--one each for the existing wards. But under the Bill Belfast is to
be divided into ten wards; and fifteen into ten won't go, even in Ireland. Lord PEEL considered
that while Lord STUART'S arithmetic was impeccable his fears were exaggerated. If Belfast drinks
its whiskey neat it will not be for want of Water Commissioners.

In the Commons Members were disappointed to learn from Sir AUCKLAND GEDDES that he had no idea
of the time when railway-fares would be reduced to the amount printed on the tickets. Nor were
they much consoled by his promise to consider the suggestion that as the fare cannot be brought
down to the ticket the ticket shall be brought up to the fare. We should not lightly part with
our few reminders of the cheap dead days that are no more. In fact it would be a salutary thing
if other tradesmen imitated the "commercial candour" of the railways and ticketed their goods
with the pre-war value in addition to the present charge.

There is a juvenile impulsiveness about Sir HENRY CRAIK which reminds one of "the boy who wouldn't
grow up," and may account for his keen interest in Kensington Gardens. Dissatisfied with an
assurance of the FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS that he was doing his best to get the War Office
to clear away their hutments he burst out, "Could he not attempt to use some disciplinary action
against the obstinacy, the stupidity, the slackness, the carelessness of those who are responsible?"
Swept away by this spate of sibilants Sir ALFRED MOND essayed no further answer.

After less than an hour's debate the House gave the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER power to borrow
a trifle of two hundred and fifty millions, to square this year's account, plus an undefined
sum to enable him to fund the floating debt, now amounting to close on two thousand millions.
Even Sir FREDERICK BANBURY had no serious objection to raise, his chief anxiety being that
everyone, and not merely the plutocratic holders of Treasury Bills, should be permitted to
subscribe to the new loan. Mr. CHAMBERLAIN assured him that it was a case of "Let 'em all come."

Tuesday, June 3rd.--According to the view of Major WOOD and his friends the Mother of Parliaments
is played out. The Grand Committees which were to have restored her vigour have left her more
enfeebled than ever, and unless she devolves a large part of her duties upon subordinate assemblies
her end is near. But I noticed that, although Ireland was expressly excepted from their resolution,
most of them talked of little else, and I fancy that but for Dublin we should not have heard
much of devolution.

As a statesman His Grace of CANTERBURY has hitherto enjoyed the reputation of being "safe"
rather than dashing. But that is evidently a mistake, for in introducing the Bill which is
to enable the Church to free itself from some of the trammels imposed upon it by the State
he begged his hearers not to be afraid of "brave adventurous legislation." His appeal was quite
lost upon Lord HALDANE, who was shocked by the terrible possibilities of the measure, and warned
the PRIMATE that if the Bill became law he would have signed the death-warrant of the Establishment.
Coming from a Presbyterian who helped to disestablish the Church in Wales, this showed the
heights of altruism to which a real philosopher may rise.

Colonel WEDGWOOD was shocked to learn that in the occupied territories Germans had to take
off their hats when addressing British officers. But it would be a mistake to assume that his
concern was due to any tenderness for our foes. On the contrary, it was exhibited out of regard
for the feelings of British officers. Mr. CHURCHILL regretted the inconvenience, but pointed
out that it had always been the practice--even in Belgium--for an Army of Occupation to exact
certain acts of respect from the inhabitants.

Mr. KELLAWAY, who announced last week with such pride that "the Government have struck oil,"
was now able to state that the oil had reached a height of 2,400 feet and was still rising
steadily. There is some talk of inviting the successful engineers to put down bores at Westminster.

Wednesday, June 4th.--Complaint was made recently that under the new Rules of Procedure Members
were expected to be in three places at once. I fancy that a good many of them settled their
difficulty to-day by betaking themselves to a fourth place, not in the precincts of the Palace
of Westminster.

There was anything but a Grand Parade on the green benches, and the faithful few who were present
put a good many questions "on behalf of my honourable friend." The Front Benches were well
manned, however, and Mr. LONG had quite a busy time explaining to Commander BELLAIRS why the
Admiralty thought it inadvisable at this date to hold courts-martial in regard to the Naval
losses of 1914. The House was more interested to hear that the Peace celebrations will include
a Naval procession through London, and that there will be a display in the Thames of war-ships
of various classes, including, possibly, some of those captured from the enemy.

A feature of the afternoon was Mr. MACQUISTEN'S brief comments upon Ministerial replies. Divorced
from their setting, such remarks as "Fish is very dear!" (à propos of Admiralty parsimony in
compensating the owners of drifters) or "By thought-reading?" (when the best method of ascertaining
native opinion on the future of Rhodesia was in question), may not sound particularly funny,
but, when delivered in a voice of peculiar penetration and "Scotchiness," at precisely the
right moments, they were sufficient to convulse the Benches. Mr. MACQUISTEN must be careful
or he will soon be a spoiled DARLING.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Cigar smokers will be interested very much in the likelihood of
    that luxury being soon dearer than ever.... It will most likely
    develop into a habit of getting the very last whiffff ffffout of
    every cigar."--Provincial Paper.

The printer would seem to be practising already.

       *       *       *       *       *

"HOW TO HEAR MUSIC."

(With humble acknowledgments to the critic of "The Times.")

We were grateful to Mlle. Snouck Hugronje for giving us an opportunity of hearing the Violin
Concertos of Prenk Bib Doda in C sharp minor, and of Basil Tulkinghorn in the composite key
of F.E. The latter work, we may explain, is dedicated to Lord BIRKENHEAD. Doda's work is so
rarely played that Mr. ERNEST NEWMAN has wittily suggested that he ought to be renamed Dodo.
But let that pass. Here he is abundantly like himself, rich in self-determining phrases which
emerge from a Hinterland of wild surmise, and tower aloft in peaks of Himalayan majesty like
Haramokh or Siniolchum ---- Mr. CANDLER must finish this sentence.

Tulkinghorn is also a master of transcendental effects, and as relentless in pushing home his
points as Mr. SMILLIE when examining a duke before the Coal Commission. But he is not always
to be trusted. He lacks the architectonic faculty. In between the clusters of clear-cut phrases
there are too many nebulae of gaseous formation and spiral type, which deflect the orbital
movement of his essentially electronic melody and impair its impact on the naked ear.

But when Mlle. Snouck Hugronje plays you forget all about self-determination, syndicalism,
guild-control, proletariats, sunspots and even Mr. SMILLIE. If you are a poet, and we are all
poets nowadays, you dream yourself into a punt on the Sonning backwater, wondering if the summer
was ever so amazing before, nearly being shipwrecked on a sandy spit, startling moorfowl or
it may be dabchicks, sending a frisson into the fritillaries, losing and regaining your punt-pole,
always believing that the next bend ---- Mr. FILSON YOUNG must really finish the sentence.

If you are a musician and an occultist you will, by due concentration of your pineal gland
and pituitary body, rise with the rapidity of a HAWKER to astral altitudes immune from all
mundane disquiet. You will notice ---- However, this is best, left to Mr. CYRIL SCOTT or Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE or Sir OLIVER LODGE. But if you are a mere listener you will listen and
be thankful. But if you never go to concerts you will still be able, by the aid of the New
Criticism, to attain to an ecstasy of appreciation far greater than if you had relied on the
crude medium of your senses.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONSCRIPTION OF BRAINS.

PROGRESS OF THE COMMISSION.

The Literary section of the Nationalisation Commission met last Friday. Before evidence was
taken the Chairman, Mr. ROBERT WILLIAMS, said that as their Report must be delivered in less
than a week the Commission had decided not to summon Lord MORLEY, Lord ROSEBERY or Mr. THOMAS
HARDY, but hoped in the few days still available, to hear the evidence of Sir THOMAS HALL CAINE,
Lady WARWICK, Mrs. BARCLAY, Mr. SPACKMAN and Mr. SMILLIE.

Mr. EDWARD MARSH read an interesting Report on the State Remuneration of Poets. He was of opinion
that poets, if they could be shown to be of the authentic Georgian brand, ought to be secured
a reasonable salary quite irrespective of the views which they expressed. They must never be
expected to glorify or approve of the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER, but should be perfectly
free to criticise or attack him. No attempt should be made to impose any metrical constraint
on their verse. But he thought it desirable that for the purpose of bringing them to the notice
of the public a State chaperon should be appointed to provide suitable introductions and biographical
details. He also advocated the multiplication of poetry tea-shops, where pure China tea and
wholesome confectionery should be supplied gratis to all poets whose works had been favourably
noticed in The Times Literary Supplement.

The CHAIRMAN. What is your idea of the minimum wage for poets?--In view of the present purchasing
power of the sovereign I should put it at eight hundred pounds a year. Modern poets require
an extra amount of nourishment, owing to the nervous strain involved in production, and their
requirements in the matter of dress are often difficult to satisfy. I understand that the price
of sandals has gone up two hundred per cent.

Mr. CHARLES GARVICE, the next witness, stated that he did not think the literary quality of
novels would be necessarily improved by nationalisation. Speaking for himself he did not think
it would affect his output. But if the State took over this industry it should be liberal in
affording novel-producers facilities for obtaining fresh material, local colour, etc. At all
costs the output of salubrious and sedative fiction must be maintained if only as an antidote
to the subversive and revolutionary literature now freely disseminated among the proletariat.

COLONEL WEDGWOOD. HOW do you expect a workman earning only three pounds a week to afford seven
shillings for every novel that he buys?--Personally I should like to see the cost reduced,
but I understand that if the price of novels were fixed at one shilling it would involve the
State in an expenditure of ten million pounds annually, even with the present reduced output
of novels, which has fallen during the War to little over twenty million tons.

Mr. HAROLD BEGBIE declared himself a whole-hearted supporter of nationalisation. There was
something extraordinarily uplifting in the notion of consecrating one's talents to the State.
Publishers were too often callous individualists. Here one would be working for humanity. If
his interview with the KAISER had been issued under State sanction he believed that the Peace
would have been signed months sooner.

       *       *       *       *       *

OFFICIAL CANDOUR.

    "TELEGRAPHIC NOTICE.

    Public is hereby informed that delays to and from offices in Punjab
    are normal."--Indian Paper.

Same here.

       *       *       *       *       *

    OUR VETERANS.

    "London Rifle Brigade, 40 strong, of the 1st Battalion, which
    went out in 1814, arrived in London from France at mid-day
    yesterday."--Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ROYAL INTERVIEW.

"Someone to see you, Miss."

Thus Mary at about nine o'clock on an April evening at the door of my tiny sitting-room.

There was a strange little quiver in her voice.

Mary is so extremely well trained, and so accustomed, moreover, to queer visitors at the flat,
that I looked up in surprise.

"Yes?" I said. "Is it a lady?"

Mary did not reply immediately; she seemed half-dazed.

"Is it a lady?" I repeated a little sharply. My usually imperturbable parlourmaid appeared
to have taken leave of her senses.

"She said she was a queen, Miss," she gasped.

At that moment the visitor, evidently grown tired of waiting, calmly floated in through the
half-open door and settled down gracefully in the centre of a large gold cushion lying on the
end of the Chesterfield.

Fortunately I grasped the situation at once.

"Thank you, Mary," I said, with what I now feel to have been most commendable coolness in the
entirely unprecedented circumstances; "I will ring if I want tea later."

When the door had closed upon the still gasping Mary I turned apologetically to my visitor.

"I'm so sorry, your Majesty," I said. "You see, my maid was not unnaturally a little surprised--"

"It's quite all right," said the Fairy Queen graciously; "I thought you wouldn't mind my coming
in."

"Of course not," I said; "I am only too delighted. Won't you come nearer the fire?"

She looked down at the cushion on which she was sitting, then she looked up at me and smiled.

"I don't like to leave it," she said; "it's so pretty." And she stroked the soft gold stuff
with her tiny hand.

"Yes," I said; "and your lovely frock goes with it so beautifully. But how would this be?"

I stooped, gently lifted the cushion with its delicate burden and put it down on the floor
in front of the fire. "There--how is that?"

"That's delightful," said the Fairy Queen. "I'm so glad you like my frock," she went on. "Paris,
of course. That is to say, the idea came from there. My own people did the actual making. After
all, no one can touch the French when it comes to real chic. Don't you think so?"

I acquiesced. Oh, yes, Paris was certainly the best.

"But I didn't come here to discuss clothes," said my visitor. She made a quick movement and
leaned suddenly forward on the cushion, her delicate golden head supported on her slender hand.
"Do you know the Editor of Punch?" she asked abruptly.

I hesitated. "I can't exactly say that I know him," I said.

The Fairy Queen looked very disappointed.

"Oh, dear, then I'm afraid it's no good. I thought you'd be sure to know him."

"But although I don't know him personally I am in communication with him," I said. "Perhaps--"

She brightened up a little.

"I suppose you could write," she said; "though of course it would be far better to see him."

"It's about that cover," she went on. I looked at her blankly.

"The cover of Punch, you know."

Vague pictures of Mr. Punch surrounded by little dancing figures, an easel, Toby, a lion--surely
there was a lion somewhere--flitted across my mind. What on earth had the cover of Punch got
to do with the Fairy Queen?

I went over to the little table where lay the latest copy, and came back with it in my hand
and knelt down on the floor near the cushion.

