All very well! But what, please, were the facts on his side? She buried her small chin deep
in her hands as she tried, frowning, to think it out. Certainly he was very much drawn, very
much taken. She had watched him, sometimes, trying to keep away from her--and her lips parted
in a broad smile as she recalled the triumph of his sudden returns and submissions. She believed
he had a curious temper--easily depressed, for all his coolness. But he had never been depressed
in her company.

Still, nothing was certain. All that had happened might melt away into nothingness with the
greatest ease if--well! if the right steps were not taken. He was no novice, any more than
she; he must have had scores of "affairs" by now, with that manner of his. Such men were always
capable of second thoughts, of tardy retreats--and especially if there were the smallest thought
of persecution, of pursuit.

She believed--she was nearly certain--he would have a reaction to-morrow, perhaps because his
mother had caught them together. Next morning he would be just a little bored by the thought
of it--a little bored by having to begin again where he had left off. Without great tact and
skill the whole edifice might tumble together like a house of cards. Had she the courage to
make difficulties--to put a water-ditch across his path?

It was close on midnight when Letty at last raised her little chin from the hands that held
it and rang the bell that communicated with her maid's room, but cautiously, so as not to disturb
the rest of the sleeping house.

"If Grier is asleep, she must wake up, that's all!"

Two or three minutes afterwards a dishevelled maid startled out of her first slumber appeared,
to ask whether her mistress was ill.

"No, Grier, but I wanted to tell you that I have changed my mind about staying here till Saturday.
I am going to-morrow morning by the 9.30 train. You can order a fly first thing, and bring
me my breakfast early."

The maid, groaning at the thought of the boxes that would have to be packed in this inconceivable
hurry, ventured to protest.

"Never mind, you can get the housemaid to help you," said Miss Sewell, decidedly. "I don't
mind what you give her. Now go to bed, Grier. I'm sorry I woke you up; you look as tired as
an owl."

Then she stood still, looking at herself--hands clasped lightly before her--in the long glass.

"'Letty went by the nine o'clock train,'" she said aloud, smiling, and mocking her own white
reflection. "'Dear me! How sudden! how extraordinary! Yes, but that's like her. H'm--' Then
he must write to me, for I shall write him a civil little note asking for that book I lent
him. Oh! I hope Aunt Watton and his mother will bore him to death!"

She broke out into a merry laugh; then, sweeping her mass of pretty hair to one side, she began
rapidly to coil it up for the night, her fingers working as fast as her thoughts, which were
busy with one ingenious plan after another for her next meeting with George Tressady.

CHAPTER III

During this same space of time, which for Miss Sewell's maid ended so disagreeably, George
Tressady was engaged in a curious conversation.

He had excused himself from smoking, on the ground of fatigue, immediately after his parting
from Letty. But he had only nominally gone to bed. He too found it difficult to tear himself
from thinking and the fire, and had not begun to undress when he heard a knock at his door.
On his reply, Lord Fontenoy entered.

"May I come in, Tressady?"

"By all means."

George, however, stared at his invader in some astonishment. His relations with Fontenoy were
not personally intimate.

"Well, I'm glad to find you still up, for I had a few words on my mind to say to you before
I go off to-morrow. Can you spare me ten minutes?"

"Certainly; do sit down. Only--well, I'm afraid I'm pretty well done. If it's anything important,
I can't promise to take it in."

Lord Fontenoy for a moment made no reply. He stood by the fire, looking at the cigarette he
still held, in silence. George watched him with repressed annoyance.

"It's been a very hot fight, this," said Fontenoy at last, slowly, "and you've won it well.
All our band have prospered in the matter of elections. But this contest of yours has been,
I think, the most conspicuous that any of us have fought. Your speeches have made a mark--one
can see that from the way in which the Press has begun to take them, political beginner though
you are. In the House you will be, I think, our best speaker--of course with time and experience.
As for me, if you give me a fortnight to prepare in, I can make out something. Otherwise I
am no use. You will take a good debating place from the beginning. Well, it is only what I
expected."

The speaker stopped. George, fidgeting in his chair, said nothing; and presently Fontenoy resumed:

"I trust you will not think what I am going to say an intrusion, but--you remember my letters
to you in India?"

George nodded.

"They put the case strongly, I think," Fontenoy went on, "but, in my opinion, not strongly
enough. This wretched Government is in power by the help of a tyranny--a tyranny of Labour.
They call themselves Conservatives--they are really State Socialists, and the mere catspaws
of the revolutionary Socialists. You and I are in Parliament to break down that tyranny, if
we can. This year and next will be all-important. If we can hold Maxwell and his friends in
check for a time--if we can put some backbone into the party of freedom--if we can rally and
call up the forces we have in the country, the thing will be done. We shall have established
the counterpoise--we shall very likely turn the next election, and liberty--or what still remains
of it!--will be saved for a generation. But to succeed, the effort, the sacrifice, from each
one of us, will have to be enormous."

Fontenoy paused, and looked at his companion. George was lying back in an armchair with his
eyes shut. Why on earth--so he was thinking--should Fontenoy have chosen this particular hour
and this particular night to debiter these very stale things, that he had already served up
in innumerable speeches and almost every letter that George had received from him?

"I don't suppose it will be child's-play," he said, stifling a yawn--"hope I shall feel keener
after a night's rest!" He looked up with a smile.

Fontenoy dropped his cigarette into the fender and stood silent a moment, his hands clasped
behind his back.

"Look here, Tressady!" he said at last, turning to his companion; "you remember how affairs
stood with me when you left England? I didn't know much of you, but I believe, like many of
my juniors, you knew a great deal about me?"

George made the sign of assent expected of him.

"I knew something about you, certainly," he said, smiling; "it was not difficult."

Fontenoy smiled too, though without geniality. Geniality had become impossible to a man always
overworked and on edge.

"I was a fool," he said quickly--"an open and notorious fool. But I enjoyed my life. I don't
suppose anyone ever enjoyed life more. Every day of my former existence gave the lie to the
good people who tell you that to be happy you must be virtuous. I was idle, extravagant, and
vicious, and I was one of the happiest of men. As to my racing and my horses, they were a constant
delight to me. I can't think now of those mornings on the Heath--the gallops of my colts--the
change and excitement of it all, without longing for it to come back again. Yet I have never
owned a horse, or seen a race, or made a bet, for the last three years. I never go into society,
except for political purposes; and I scarcely ever touch wine. In fact, I have thrown overboard
everything that once gave me pleasure and amusement so completely that I have, perhaps, some
right to press upon the party that follows me my conviction that unless each and all of us
give up private ease and comfort as I have done--unless we are contented, as the Parnellites
were, to be bores in the House and nuisances to ourselves--to peg away in season and out of
season--to give up everything for the cause, we may just as well not go into the fight at all--for
we shall do nothing with it."

George clasped his hands round his knee, and stared stubbornly into the fire. Sermonising was
all very well, but Fontenoy did too much of it; nobody need suppose that he would have done
what he had done, unless, on the whole, it had given him more pleasure to do it than not to do it.

"Well," he said, looking up at last with a laugh, "I wonder what you mean--really. Do you mean,
for instance, that I oughtn't to get myself married?"

His offhand manner covered a good deal of irritation. He made a shrewd guess at the idea in
Fontenoy's mind, and meant to show that he would not be dictated to.

Fontenoy also laughed, with as little geniality as before. Then he applied himself to a deliberate
answer.

"This is what I mean. If you, just elected--at the beginning of this critical session--were
to give your best mind to anything else in the world than the fight before us, I should regard
you as, for the time, at any rate, lost to us--as, so far, betraying us."

The colour rushed into George's cheeks.

"Upon my word!" he said, springing up--"upon my word, you are a taskmaster!"

Fontenoy hastened to reply, in a different tone, "I only want to keep the machine in order."

George paced up and down for a few moments without speaking. Presently he paused.

"Look here, Fontenoy! I cannot look at the matter as you do, and we may as well understand
each other. To me, this election of mine is, after all, an ordinary affair. I take it, and
what is to come after it, just as other men do. I have accepted your party and your programme,
and I mean to stick to them. I see that the political situation is difficult and exciting,
and I don't intend to shirk. But I am no more going to slay my private life and interests at
the altar of politics than my father did when he was in Parliament. If the revolution is coming,
it will come in spite of you and me. And, moreover--if you will let me say so--I am convinced
that your modes of procedure are not even profitable to the cause in the long run. No man can
work as you do, without rest and without distraction. You will break down, and then, where
will the 'cause' be?"

Lord Fontenoy surveyed the speaker with a curious, calculating look. It was as though, with
as much rapidity as his mind was capable of, he balanced a number of pros and cons against
each other, and finally decided to let the matter drop, perhaps not without some regret for
having raised it.

"Ah! well," he said, "I have no doubt that what I have said appears to you mere meddlesomeness.
If so, you will change your view, and you will forgive me. I must trust the compulsion of the
situation. You will realise it, as I have done, when you get well into the fight. There is
something in this Labour tyranny which rouses all a man's passions, bad and good. If it does
not rouse yours, I have been much mistaken in my estimate of you. As for me, don't waste your
concern. There are few stronger men than I. You forget, too--"

There was a pause. Of late years, since his transformation in fact, Lord Fontenoy's stiff reserve
about himself had been rarely broken through. At this moment, however, George, looking up,
saw that his companion was in some way moved by a kind of sombre and personal emotion.

"You forget," the speaker resumed, "that I learnt nothing either at school or college, and
that a man who wants to lead a party must, some time or other, pay for that precious privilege.
When you left England, the only financial statement I could understand was a betting-book.
I knew no history except what one gets from living among people who have been making it, and
even that I was too lazy to profit by. I couldn't understand the simplest economical argument,
and I hated trouble of all kinds. Nothing but the toil of a galley-slave could have enabled
me to do what I have done. You would be astonished sometimes if you could look in upon me at
night and see what I am doing--what I am obliged to do to keep up the most elementary appearances."

George was touched. The tone of the speaker had passed suddenly into one of plain dignity,
in spite of, perhaps because of, the half-bitter humility that mingled with it.

"I know you make one ashamed," he said sincerely, though awkwardly. "Well, don't distrust me;
I'll do my best."

"Good-night," said Lord Fontenoy, and held out his hand. He had gained no promises, and George
had shown and felt annoyance. Yet the friendship between the two men had sensibly advanced.

       *       *       *       *       *

George shut the door upon him, and came back to the fire to ponder this odd quarter of an hour.

His experience certainly contained no more extraordinary fact than this conversion of a gambler
and a spendthrift into the passionate leader of an arduous cause. Only one quality linked the
man he remembered with the politician he had now pledged himself to follow--the quality of
intensity. Dicky Fontenoy in his follies had been neither gay nor lovable, but his fierce will,
his extravagant and reckless force, had given him the command of men softer than himself. That
will and that force were still there, steeled and concentrated. But George Tressady was sometimes
restlessly doubtful as to how far he himself was prepared to submit to them.

His personal acquaintance with Fontenoy was of comparatively recent date. He himself had been
for some four years away from England, to which he had only returned about three months before
the Market Malford election. A letter from Fontenoy had been the immediate cause of his return;
but before it arrived the two men had been in no direct communication.

The circumstances of Tressady's long absence concern his later story, and were on this wise.
His father, Sir William, the owner of Ferth Place, in West Mercia, died in the year that George,
his only surviving child and the son of his old age, left college. The son, finding his father's
debts considerable and his own distaste for the law, to which he had been destined, amazingly
increased by his newly acquired freedom to do what he liked with himself, turned his mind at
once towards travelling. Travel he must if he was ever to take up public and parliamentary
life, and for no other profession--so he announced--did he feel the smallest vocation. Moreover,
economy was absolutely necessary. During his absence the London house could be let, and Lady
Tressady could live quietly at Ferth upon an allowance, while his uncles looked after the colliery
property.

Lady Tressady made no difficulty, except as to the figure first named for the proposed allowance,
which she declared was absurd. The uncles, elderly business men, could not understand why the
younger generation should not go into harness at once without indulgences, as they themselves
had done; but George got his way, and had much reason to show for it. He had not been idle
at college, though perhaps at no time industrious enough. Influenced by natural ambition and
an able tutor, he had won some distinction, and he was now a man full of odds and ends of ideas,
of nascent interests, curiosities, and opinions, strongly influenced moreover already, though
he said less about it than about other things, by the desire for political distinction. While
still at college he had been especially attracted--owing mainly to the chances of an undergraduate
friendship--by a group of Eastern problems bearing upon England's future in Asia; and he was
no sooner free to govern himself and his moderate income than there flamed up in him the Englishman's
passion to see, to touch, to handle, coupled with the young man's natural desire to go where
it was dangerous to go, and where other men were not going. His friend--the son of an eminent
geographer, possessed by inheritance of the explorer's instincts--was just leaving England
for Asia Minor, Armenia, and Persia. George made up his mind, hastily but firmly, to go with
him, and his family had to put up with it.

The year, however, for which the young fellow had stipulated went by; two others were added
to it; and a fourth began to run its course--still George showed but faint signs of returning.
According to his letters home, he had wandered through Persia, India, and Ceylon; had found
friends and amusement everywhere; and in the latter colony had even served eight months as
private secretary to the Governor, who had taken a fancy to him, and had been suddenly bereft
by a boating accident of the indispensable young man who was accustomed to direct the hospitalities
of Government House before Tressady's advent. Thence he went to China and Japan, made a trip
from Pekin into Mongolia, landed on Formosa, fell in with some French naval officers at Saigon,
spending with them some of the gayest and maddest weeks of his life; explored Siam, and finally
returned by way of Burmah to Calcutta, with the dim intention this time of some day, before
long, taking ship for home.

Meanwhile during the last months of his stay in Ceylon he had written some signed articles
for an important English newspaper, which, together with the natural liking felt by the many
important persons he had come to know in the East for an intelligent and promising young fellow,
endowed with brains, family, and good manners, served to bring him considerably into notice.
The tone of the articles was strongly English and Imperialist. The first of them came out immediately
before his visit to Saigon, and Tressady thanked his lucky stars that the foreign reading of
his French friends was, perhaps, not so extensive as their practical acquaintance with life.
He was, however, proud of his first literary achievement, and it served to crystallise in him
a number of ideas and sentiments which had previously represented rather the prejudices of
a traveller accustomed to find his race in the ascendant, and to be well received by its official
class than any reasoned political theory. As he went on writing, conviction, grew with statement,
became a faith, ultimately a passion--till, as he turned homewards, he seemed to himself to
have attained a philosophy sufficient to steer the rest of life by. It was the common philosophy
of the educated and fastidious observer; and it rested on ideas of the greatness of England
and the infinity of England's mission, on the rights of ability to govern as contrasted with
the squalid possibilities of democracy, on the natural kingship of the higher races, and on
a profound personal admiration for the virtues of the administrator and the soldier.

Now, no man in whom these perceptions take strong root early, need expect to love popular government.
Tressady read his English newspapers with increasing disgust. On that little England in those
far seas all depended, and England meant the English working-man with his flatteries of either
party. He blundered and blustered at home, while the Empire, its services and its defences,
by which alone all this pullulating "street folk" existed for a day, were in danger of starvation
and hindrance abroad, to meet the unreasonable fancies of a degenerate race. A deep hatred
of mob-rule rooted itself in Tressady, passing gradually, during his last three months in India,
into a growing inclination to return and take his place in the fight--to have his say. "Government
to the competent--not to the many," might have been the summary of his three years' experience.

Nor were private influences wanting. He was a West Mercian landowner in a coal-mining district,
and owned a group of pits on the borders of his estate. His uncles, who had shares in the property,
reported to him periodically during his absence. With every quarter it seemed to Tressady that
the reports grew worse and the dividends less. His uncles' letters, indeed, were full of anxieties
and complaints. After a long period of peace in the coal-trade, it looked as though a time
of hot war between masters and men was approaching. "We have to thrash them every fifteen years,"
wrote one of the uncles, "and the time is nearly up."

The unreason, brutality, and extravagance of the men; the tyranny of the Union; the growing
insolence of the Union officials--Tressady's letters from home after a time spoke of little
else. And Tressady's bankbook meanwhile formed a disagreeable comment on the correspondence.
The pits were almost running at a loss; yet neither party had made up their minds to the trial
of strength.

Tressady was still lingering in Bombay--though supposed to be on his way home--when Lord Fontenoy's
letter reached him.

The writer referred slightly to their previous acquaintance, and to a remote family connection
between himself and Tressady; dwelt in flattering terms on the reports which had reached him
from many quarters of Tressady's opinions and abilities; described the genesis and aims of
the new Parliamentary party, of which the writer was the founder and head; and finally urged
him to come home at once, and to stand for Parliament as a candidate for the Market Malford
division, where the influence of Fontenoy's family was considerable. Since the general election,
which had taken place in June, and had returned a moderate Conservative Government to power,
the member for Market Malford had become incurably ill. The seat might be vacant at any moment.
Fontenoy asked for a telegram, and urged the next steamer.

Tressady had already--partly from private talk, partly from the newspapers--learnt the main
outlines of Lord Fontenoy's later story. The first political speech of Fontenoy's he had ever
read made a half-farcical impression on him--let Dicky stick to his two-year-olds! The second
he read twice over, and alike in it, in certain party manifestoes from the same hand printed
in the newspapers, and in the letter he had now received, there spoke something for which it
seemed to him he had been waiting. The style was rough and halting, but Tressady felt in it
the note and power of a leader.

He took an hour's walk through the streets of Bombay to think it over, then sent his telegram,
and booked his passage on his way home to luncheon.

Such, in brief outline, had been the origin of the two men's acquaintance. Since George's return
they had been constantly together. Fontenoy had thrown his whole colossal power of work into
the struggle for the Market Malford seat, and George owed him much.

       *       *       *       *       *

After he was left to himself on this particular night, Tressady was for long restless and wakeful.
In spite of resistance, Fontenoy's talk and Fontenoy's personality had nevertheless restored
for the moment an earlier balance of mind. The interests of ambition and the intellect returned
in force. Letty Sewell had, no doubt, made life very agreeable to him during the past three
weeks; but, after all--was it worth while?

