       *       *       *       *       *

She entered the dining-room timidly, expecting some comment on her discourteous absence. Instead
of that, both her father and her director rose respectfully, and received her with kind and
affectionate looks. They then pressed her to eat this and that, and were remarkably attentive
and kind. She could see that she was deep in their good books. This pleased her; but she watched
quietly, after the manner of her sex, to learn what it was all about. Nor was she left long
in the dark. Remarks were made that hit her, though they were none of them addressed to her.

Father Francis delivered quite a little homily on Obedience, and said how happy a thing it
was, when zeal, a virtue none too common in these degenerate days, was found tempered by humility,
and subservient to ghostly counsel and authority.

Mr. Peyton dealt in no general topics of that kind; his discourse was secular: it ran upon
Neville's Cross, Neville's Court, and the Baronetcy; and he showed Francis how and why this
title must sooner or later come to George Neville and the heirs of his body.

Francis joined in this topic for a while, but speedily diverged into what might be called a
collateral theme. He described to Kate a delightful spot on the Neville estate, where a nunnery
might be built and endowed by any good Catholic lady having zeal, and influence with the owner
of the estate, and with the lord-lieutenant of the county.

"It is three parts an island, (for the river Wey curls round it lovingly,) but backed by wooded
slopes that keep off the north and east winds: a hidden and balmy place, such as the forefathers
of the Church did use to choose for their rustic abbeys, whose ruins still survive to remind
us of the pious and glorious days gone by. Trout and salmon come swimming to the door; hawthorn
and woodbine are as rife there as weeds be in some parts; two broad oaks stand on turf like
velvet, and ring with songbirds. A spot by nature sweet, calm, and holy,--good for pious exercises
and heavenly contemplation: there, methinks, if it be God's will I should see old age, I would
love to end my own days, at peace with Heaven and with all mankind."

Kate was much moved by this picture, and her clasped hands and glistening eyes showed the glory
and delight it would be to her to build a convent on so lovely a spot. But her words were vague.
"How sweet! how sweet!" was all she committed herself to. For, after what Tom Leicester had
just told her, she hardly knew what to say or what to think or what to do; she felt she had
become a mere puppet, first drawn one way, then another.

One thing appeared pretty clear to her now: Father Francis did not mean her to choose between
her two lovers; he was good enough to relieve her of that difficulty by choosing for her. She
was to marry Neville.

She retired to rest directly after supper; for she was thoroughly worn out. And the moment
she rose to go, her father bounced up, and lighted the bed-candle for her with novel fervor,
and kissed her on the cheek, and said in her ear,--

"Good night, my Lady Neville!"

CHAPTER VIII.

What with the day's excitement, and a sweet secluded convent in her soul, and a bullet in her
bosom, and a ringing in her ear, that sounded mighty like "Lady Neville! Lady Neville! Lady
Neville!" Kate spent a restless night, and woke with a bad headache.

She sent her maid to excuse her, on this score, from going to Bolton Hall. But she was informed,
in reply, that the carriage had been got ready expressly for her; so she must be good enough
to shake off disease and go; the air would do her a deal more good than lying abed.

Thereupon she dressed herself in her black silk gown, and came down, looking pale and languid,
but still quite lovely enough to discharge what in this age of cant I suppose we should call
"her mission": videlicet, to set honest men by the ears.

At half past eight o'clock the carriage came round to the front door. Its body, all glorious
with the Peyton armorials and with patches of rusty gilding, swung exceedingly loose on long
leathern straps instead of springs; and the fore-wheels were a mile from the hind-wheels, more
or less. A pretentious and horrible engine; drawn by four horses; only two of them being ponies
impaired the symmetry and majestic beauty of the pageant. Old Joe drove the wheelers; his boy
rode the leaders, and every now and then got off and kicked them in the pits of their stomachs,
or pierced them with hedge-stakes, to rouse their mettle. Thus encouraged and stimulated, they
effected an average of four miles and a half per hour, notwithstanding the snow, and reached
Bolton just in time. At the lodge, Francis got out, and lay in ambush,--but only for a time.
He did not think it orthodox to be present at a religious ceremony of his Protestant friends,--nor
common-sense-o-dox to turn his back upon their dinner.

The carriage drew up at the hall-door. It was wide open, and the hall lined with servants,
male and female, in black. In the midst, between these two rows, stood Griffith Gaunt, bareheaded,
to welcome the guests. His arm was in a sling. He had received all the others in the middle
of the hall; but he came to the threshold to meet Kate and her father. He bowed low and respectfully,
then gave his left hand to Kate to conduct her, after the formal fashion of the day. The sight
of his arm in a sling startled and affected her; and with him giving her his hand almost at
the same moment, she pressed it, or indeed squeezed it nervously, and it was in her heart to
say something kind and womanly: but her father was close behind, and she was afraid of saying
something too kind, if she said anything at all; so Griffith only got a little gentle nervous
pinch. But that was more than he expected, and sent a thrill of delight through him; his brown
eyes replied with a volume, and holding her hand up in the air as high as her ear, and keeping
at an incredible distance, he led her solemnly to a room where the other ladies were, and left
her there with a profound bow.

The Peytons were nearly the last persons expected; and soon after their arrival the funeral
procession formed. This part was entirely arranged by the undertaker. The monstrous custom
of forbidding ladies to follow their dead had not yet occurred even to the idiots of the nation,
and Mr. Peyton and his daughter were placed in the second carriage. The first contained Griffith
Gaunt alone, as head mourner. But the Peytons were not alone: no other relation of the deceased
being present, the undertaker put Mr. Neville with the Peytons, because he was heir to a baronetcy.

Kate was much startled, and astonished to see him come out into the hall. But when he entered
the carriage, she welcomed him warmly.

"Oh, I am so glad to see you here!" said she.

"Guess by that what my delight at meeting you must be," said he.

She blushed and turned it off.

"I mean, that your coming here gives me good hopes there will be no more mischief."

She then lowered her voice, and begged him on no account to tell her papa of her ride to Scutchemsee
Nob.

"Not a word," said George.

He knew the advantage of sharing a secret with a fair lady. He proceeded to whisper something
very warm in her ear: she listened to some of it; but then remonstrated, and said,--

"Are you not ashamed to go on so at a funeral? Oh, do, pray, leave compliments a moment, and
think of your latter end."

He took this suggestion, as indeed he did everything from her, in good part; and composed his
visage into a decent gravity.

Soon after this they reached the church, and buried the deceased in his family vault.

People who are not bereaved by the death are always inclined to chatter, coming home from a
funeral. Kate now talked to Neville of her own accord, and asked him if he had spoken to his
host. He said yes, and, more than that, had come to a clear understanding with him.

"We agreed that it was no use fighting for you. I said, if either of us two was to kill the
other, it did not follow you would wed the survivor."

"Me wed the wretch!" said Kate, "I should abhor him, and go into a convent in spite of you
all, and end my days praying for the murdered man's soul."

"Neither of us is worth all that," suggested Neville, with an accent of conviction.

"That is certain," replied the lady, dryly; "so please not to do it."

He bade her set her mind at ease: they had both agreed to try and win her by peaceful arts.

"Then a pretty life mine will be!"

"Well, I think it will, till you decide."

"I could easily decide, if it were not for giving pain to--somebody."

"Oh, you can't help that. My sweet mistress, you are not the first that has had to choose between
two worthy men. For, in sooth, I have nothing to say against my rival, neither. I know him
better than I did: he is a very worthy gentleman, though he is damnably in my way."

"And you are a very noble one to say so."

"And you are one of those that make a man noble: I feel that petty arts are not the way to
win you, and I scorn them. Sweet Mistress Kate, I adore you! You are the best and noblest,
as well as the loveliest of women!"

"Oh, hush, Mr. Neville! I am a creature of clay,--and you are another,--and both of us coming
home from a funeral. Do think of that."

Here they were interrupted by Mr. Peyton asking Kate to lend him a shilling for the groom.
Kate replied aloud that she had left her purse at home, then whispered in his ear that she
had not a shilling in the world: and this was strictly true; for her little all was Tom Leicester's
now. With this they reached the Hall, and the coy Kate gave both Neville and Gaunt the slip,
and got amongst her mates. There her tongue went as fast as her neighbors', though she had
just come back from a funeral.

But soon the ladies and gentlemen were all invited to the reading of the will.

And now chance, which had hitherto befriended Neville by throwing him into one carriage with
Kate, gave Gaunt a turn. He found her a moment alone and near the embrasure of a window. He
seized the opportunity, and asked her, might he say a word in her ear?

"What a question!" said she, gayly; and the next moment they had the embrasure to themselves.

"Kate," said he, hurriedly, "in a few minutes, I suppose, I shall be master of this place.
Now you told me once you would rather be an abbess or a nun than marry me."

"Did I?" said Kate. "What a sensible speech! But the worst of it is, I'm never in the same
mind long."

"Well," replied Griffith, "I think of all that falls from your lips, and your will is mine;
only for pity's sake do not wed any man but me. You have known me so long; why, you know the
worst of me by this time; and you have only seen the outside of him."

"Detraction! is that what you wanted to say to me?" asked Kate, freezing suddenly.

"Nay, nay; it was about the abbey. I find you can be an abbess without going and shutting yourself
up and breaking one's heart. The way is, you build a convent in Ireland, and endow it; and
then you send a nun over to govern it under you. Bless your heart, you can do anything with
money; and I shall have money enough before the day is over. To be sure, I did intend to build
a kennel and keep harriers, and you know that costs a good penny: but we couldn't manage a
kennel and an abbey too; so now down goes the English kennel, and up goes the Irish abbey."

"But you are a Protestant gentleman. You could not found a nunnery."

"But my wife could. Whose business is it what she does with her money?"

"With your money, you mean."

"Nay, with hers, when I give it her with all my heart."

"Well, you astonish me," said Kate, thoughtfully. "Tell me, now, who put it into your head
to bribe a poor girl in this abominable way?"

"Who put it in my head?" said Griffith, looking rather puzzled; "why, I suppose my heart put
it in my head."

Kate smiled very sweetly at this answer, and a wild hope thrilled through Griffith that perhaps
she might be brought to terms.

But at this crisis the lawyer from London was announced, and Griffith, as master of the house,
was obliged to seat the company. He looked bitterly disappointed at the interruption, but put
a good face on it, and had more chairs in, and saw them all seated, beginning with Kate and
the other ladies.

The room was spacious, and the entire company sat in the form of a horse-shoe.

The London solicitor was introduced by Griffith, and bowed in a short, business-like way, seated
himself in the horse-shoe aforesaid, and began to read the will aloud.

It was a lengthy document, and there is nothing to be gained by repeating every line of it.
I pick out a clause here and there.

"I, Septimus Charlton, of Hernshaw Castle and Bolton Grange, in the County of Cumberland, Esquire,
being of sound mind, memory, and understanding,--thanks be to God,--do make this my last will
and testament, as follows:--

"First, I commit my soul to God who gave it, and my body to the earth from which it came. I
desire my executors to discharge my funeral and testamentary expenses, my just debts, and the
legacies hereinafter bequeathed, out of my personal estate."

Then followed several legacies of fifty and one hundred guineas; then several small legacies,
such as the following:--

"To my friend Edward Peyton, of Peyton Hall, Esquire, ten guineas to buy a mourning ring.

"To the worshipful gentlemen and ladies who shall follow my body to the grave, ten guineas
each, to buy a mourning ring."

"To my wife's cousin, Griffith Gaunt, I give and bequeath the sum of two thousand pounds, the
same to be paid to him within one calendar month from the date of my decease.

"And as to all my messuages, or tenements, farms, lands, hereditaments, and real estate, of
what nature or what kind soever, and wheresoever situate, together with all my moneys, mortgages,
chattels, furniture, plate, pictures, wine, liquors, horses, carriages, stock, and all the
rest, residue, and remainder of my personal estate and effects whatsoever, (after the payment
of the debts and legacies hereinbefore mentioned,) I give, devise, and bequeath the same to
my cousin, Catharine Peyton, daughter of Edward Peyton, Esquire, of Peyton Hall, in the County
of Cumberland, her heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, forever."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the lawyer read out this unexpected blow, the whole company turned in their seats and
looked amazed at her who in a second and a sentence was turned before their eyes from the poorest
girl in Cumberland to an heiress in her own right, and proprietor of the house they sat in,
the chairs they sat on, and the lawn they looked out at.

Ay, we turn to the rising sun. Very few looked at Griffith Gaunt to see how he took his mistress's
good fortune, that was his calamity; yet his face was a book full of strange matter. At first
a flash of loving joy crossed his countenance; but this gave way immediately to a haggard look,
and that to a glare of despair.

As for the lady, she cast one deprecating glance, swifter than lightning, at him she had disinherited,
and then she turned her face to marble. In vain did curious looks explore her to detect the
delight such a stroke of fortune would have given to themselves. Faulty, but great of soul,
and on her guard against the piercing eyes of her own sex, she sat sedate, and received her
change of fortune with every appearance of cool composure and exalted indifference; and as
for her dreamy eyes, they seemed thinking of heaven, or something almost as many miles away
from money and land.

But the lawyer had not stopped a moment to see how people took it; he had gone steadily on
through the usual formal clauses; and now he brought his monotonous voice to an end, and added,
in the same breath, but in a natural and cheerful tone,--

"Madam, I wish you joy."

This operated like a signal. The company exploded in a body; and then they all came about the
heiress, and congratulated her in turn. She curtsied politely, though somewhat coldly, but
said not a word in reply, till the disappointed one spoke to her.

He hung back at first. To understand his feelings, it must be remembered, that, in his view
of things, Kate gained nothing by this bequest, compared with what he lost. As his wife, she
would have been mistress of Bolton Hall, etc. But now she was placed too far above him. Sick
at heart, he stood aloof while they all paid their court to her. But by-and-by he felt it would
look base and hostile, if he alone said nothing; so he came forward, struggling visibly for
composure and manly fortitude.

The situation was piquant; and the ladies' tongues stopped in a moment, and they were all eyes
and ears.

THREE MONTHS AMONG THE RECONSTRUCTIONISTS.

I spent the months of September, October, and November, 1865, in the States of North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Georgia. I travelled over more than half the stage and railway routes therein,
visited a considerable number of towns and cities in each State, attended the so-called reconstruction
conventions at Raleigh, Columbia, and Milledgeville, and had much conversation with many individuals
of nearly all classes.

I.

I was generally treated with civility, and occasionally with courteous cordiality. I judge,
from the stories told me by various persons, that my reception was, on the whole, something
better than that accorded to the majority of Northern men travelling in that section. Yet at
one town in South Carolina, when I sought accommodations for two or three days at a boarding-house,
I was asked by the woman in charge, "Are you a Yankee or a Southerner?" and when I answered,
"Oh, a Yankee, of course," she responded, "No Yankee stops in this house!" and turned her back
upon me and walked off. In another town in the same State I learned that I was the first Yankee
who had been allowed to stop at the hotel since the close of the war. In one of the principal
towns of Western North Carolina, the landlord of the hotel said to a customer, while he was
settling his bill, that he would be glad to have him say a good word for the house to any of
his friends; "but," added he, "you may tell all d----d Yankees I can git 'long jest as well,
if they keep clar o' me"; and when I asked if the Yankees were poor pay, or made him extra
trouble, he answered, "I don't want 'em 'round. I ha'n't got no use for 'em nohow." In another
town in the same State, a landlord said to me, when I paid my two-days' bill, that "no d--n
Yankee" could have a bed in his house. In Georgia, I several times heard the people of my hotel
expressing the hope that the passenger-train wouldn't bring any Yankees; and I have good reason
for believing that I was quite often compelled to pay an extra price for accommodations because
I was known to be from the North. In one town, several of us, passengers by an evening train,
were solicited to go to a certain hotel; but the clerk declined to give me a room, when he
learned that I was from Massachusetts, though I secured one after a time through the favor
of a travelling acquaintance, who sharply rebuked the landlord.

It cannot be said that freedom of speech has been fully secured in either of these three States.
Personally, I have very little cause of complaint, for my rôle was rather that of a listener
than of a talker; but I met many persons who kindly cautioned me, that at such and such places,
and in such and such company, it would be advisable to refrain from conversation on certain
topics. Among the better class of people, resident in the cities and large towns, I found a
fair degree of liberality of sentiment and courtesy of speech; but in travelling off the main
railway-lines, and among the average of the population, any man of Northern opinions must use
much circumspection of language; while, in many counties of South Carolina and Georgia, the
life of an avowed Northern radical would hardly be worth a straw but for the presence of the
military. In Barnwell and Anderson districts, South Carolina, official records show the murder
of over a dozen Union men in the months of August and September; and at Atlanta, a man told
me, with a quiet chuckle, that in Carroll County, Georgia, there were "four d--n Yankees shot
in the month of October." Any Union man, travelling in either of these two States, must expect
to hear many very insulting words; and any Northern man is sure to find his principles despised,
his people contemned, and himself subjected to much disagreeable contumely. There is everywhere
extreme sensitiveness concerning the negro and his relations; and I neither found nor learned
of any village, town, or city in which it would be safe for a man to express freely what are
here, in the North, called very moderate views on that subject. Of course the war has not taught
its full lesson, till even Mr. Wendell Phillips can go into Georgia and proclaim "The South
Victorious."

II.

I often had occasion to notice, both in Georgia and the Carolinas, the wide and pitiful difference
between the residents of the cities and large towns and the residents of the country. There
is no homogeneity, but everywhere a rigid spirit of caste. The longings of South Carolina are
essentially monarchical rather than republican; even the common people have become so debauched
in loyalty, that very many of them would readily accept the creation of orders of nobility.
In Georgia there is something less of this spirit; but the upper classes continually assert
their right to rule, and the middle and lower classes have no ability to free themselves. The
whole structure of society is full of separating walls; and it will sadden the heart of any
Northern man, who travels in either of these three States, to see how poor, and meagre, and
narrow a thing life is to all the country people. Even with the best class of townsfolk it
lacks very much of the depth and breadth and fruitfulness of our Northern life, while with
these others it is hardly less materialistic than that of their own mules and horses. Thus,
Charleston has much intelligence, and considerable genuine culture; but go twenty miles away,
and you are in the land of the barbarians. So, Raleigh is a city in which there is love of
beauty, and interest in education; but the common people of the county are at least forty years
behind the same class of people in Vermont. Moreover, in Macon are many very fine residences,
and the city may boast of its gentility and its respect for the nourishing elegancies of life;
but a dozen miles out are large neighborhoods not yet half-civilized. The contrast between
the inhabitants of the cities and those of the country is hardly less striking than that between
the various classes constituting the body of the common people. Going from one county into
another is frequently going into a foreign country. Travel continually brings novelty, but
with that always came pain. Till all these hateful walls of caste are thrown down, we can have
neither intelligent love of liberty, decent respect for justice, nor enlightened devotion to
the idea of national unity. "Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?"

It has been the purpose of the ruling class, apparently, to build new barriers between themselves
and the common people, rather than tear away any of those already existing. I think no one
can understand the actual condition of the mass of whites in Georgia and the Carolinas, except
by some daily contact with them. The injustice done to three fourths of them was hardly less
than that done to all the blacks. There were two kinds of slavery, and negro slavery was only
more wicked and debasing than white slavery. Nine of every ten white men in South Carolina
had almost as little to do with even State affairs as the negroes had. Men talk of plans of
reconstruction;--that is the best plan which proposes to do most for the common people. Till
civilization has been carried down into the homes and hearts of all classes, we shall have
neither regard for humanity nor respect for the rights of the citizen. In many sections of
all these States human life is quite as cheap as animal life. What a mental and moral condition
does this indicate! Any plan of reconstruction is wrong that does not assure toleration of
opinion, and the elevation of the common people to the consciousness that ours is a republican
form of government. Whether they are technically in the Union or out of the Union, it is the
national duty to deal with these States in such manner as will most surely exalt the lower
and middle classes of their inhabitants. The nation must teach them a knowledge of their own
rights, while it also teaches them respect for its rights and the rights of man as man.

Stopping for two or three days in some back county, I was always seeming to have drifted away
from the world which held Illinois and Ohio and Massachusetts. The difficulty in keeping connection
with our civilization did not so much lie in the fact that the whole structure of daily life
is unlike ours, nor in the other fact that I was forced to hear the Union and all loyal men
reviled, as in the greater fact that the people are utterly without knowledge. There is everywhere
a lack of intellectual activity. Schools, books, newspapers,--why, one may almost say there
are none outside the cities and towns. The situation is horrible enough, when the full force
of this fact is comprehended; yet there is a still lower deep,--there is small desire, even
feeble longing, for schools and books and newspapers. The chief end of man seems to have been
"to own a nigger." In the important town of Charlotte, North Carolina, I found a white man
who owned the comfortable house in which he lived, who had a wife and three half-grown children,
and yet had never taken a newspaper in his life. He thought they were handy for wrapping purposes,
but he couldn't see why anybody wanted to bother with the reading of them. He knew some folks
spent money for them, but he also knew a-many houses where none had ever been seen. In that
State I found several persons--whites, and not of the "clay-eater" class, either--who never
had been inside a school-house, and who didn't mean to 'low their children to go inside one.
In the upper part of South Carolina, I stopped one night at the house of a moderately well-to-do
farmer who never had owned any book but a Testament, and that was given to him. When I expressed
some surprise at this fact, he assured me that he was as well off as some other people thereabouts.
Between Augusta and Milledgeville I rode in a stage-coach in which were two delegates of the
Georgia Convention. When I said that I hoped the day would soon come in which school-houses
would be as numerous in Georgia as in Massachusetts, one of them answered: "Well, I hope it'll
never come,--popular education is all a d--n humbug in my judgment"; whereunto the other responded,
"That's my opinion, too." These are exceptional cases, I am aware, but they truly index the
situation of thousands of persons. It is this general ignorance, and this general indifference
to knowledge, that make a Southern trip such wearisome work. You can touch the masses with
few of the appeals by which we move our own people. There is very little aspiration for larger
life; and, more than that, there is almost no opportunity for its attainment. That education
is the stairway to a nobler existence is a fact which they either fail to comprehend or to
which they are wholly indifferent.

Where there is such a spirit of caste, where the ruling class has a personal interest in fostering
prejudice, where the masses are in such an inert condition, where ignorance so generally prevails,
where there is so little ambition for improvement, where life is so hard and material in its
tone, it is not strange to find much hatred and contempt. Ignorance is generally cruel, and
frequently brutal. The political leaders of this people have apparently indoctrinated them
with the notion that they are superior to any other class in the country. Hence there is usually
very little effort to conceal the prevalent scorn of the Yankee,--this term being applied to
the citizen of any Northern State. Any plan of reconstruction is wrong that tends to leave
these old leaders in power. A few of them give fruitful evidence of a change of heart,--by
some means save these for the sore and troubled future; but for the others, the men who not
only brought on the war, but ruined the mental and moral force of their people before unfurling
the banner of rebellion,--for these there should never any more be place or countenance among
honest and humane and patriotic people. When the nation gives them life, and a chance for its
continuance, it shows all the magnanimity that humanity in such case can afford.

III.

In North Carolina there is a great deal of something that calls itself Unionism; but I know
nothing more like the apples of Sodom than most of this North Carolina Unionism. It is a cheat,
a Will-o'-the-wisp; and any man who trusts it will meet with overthrow. Its quality is shown
in a hundred ways. An old farmer came into Raleigh to sell a little corn. I had some talk with
him. He claimed that he had been a Union man from the beginning of the war, but he refused
to take "greenback money" for his corn. In a town in the western part of the State I found
a merchant who prided himself on the fact that he had always prophesied the downfall of the
so-called Confederacy and had always desired the success of the Union arms; yet when I asked
him why he did not vote in the election for delegates to the Convention, he answered, sneeringly--"I
shall not vote till you take away the military." The State Convention declared by a vote of
ninety-four to nineteen that the Secession ordinance had always been null and void; and then
faced squarely about, and, before the Presidential instructions were received, impliedly declared,
by a vote of fifty-seven to fifty-three, in favor of paying the war debt incurred in supporting
that ordinance! This action on these two points exactly exemplifies the quality of North Carolina
Unionism. There may be in it the seed of loyalty, but woe to him who mistakes the germ for
the ripened fruit! In all sections of the State I found abundant hatred of some leading or
local Secessionist; but how full of promise for the new era of national life is the Unionism
which rests only on this foundation?

In South Carolina there is very little pretence of loyalty. I believe I found less than fifty
men who admitted any love for the Union. There is everywhere a passionate devotion to the State,
and the common sentiment holds that man guilty of treason who prefers the United States to
South Carolina. There is no occasion to wonder at the admiration of the people for Wade Hampton,
for he is the very exemplar of their spirit,--of their proud and narrow and domineering spirit.
"It is our duty," he says, in his letter of last November, "it is our duty to support the President
of the United States so long as he manifests a disposition to restore all our rights as a sovereign
State." That sentence will forever stand as a model of cool arrogance, and yet it is in full
accord with the spirit of the South-Carolinians. He continues:--"Above all, let us stand by
our State,--all the sacred ties that bind us to her are intensified by her suffering and desolation....
It only remains for me, in bidding you farewell, to say, that, whenever the State needs my
services, she has only to command, and I shall obey." The war has taught this people only that
the physical force of the nation cannot be resisted. They will be obedient to the letter of
the law, perhaps, but the whole current of their lives flows in direct antagonism to its spirit.

In Georgia there is something worse than sham Unionism or cold acquiescence in the issue of
battle: it is the universally prevalent doctrine of the supremacy of the State. Even in South
Carolina a few men stood up against the storm, and now claim credit for faith in dark days.
In Georgia that man is hopelessly dead who doubted or faltered. The common sense of all classes
pushes the necessity of allegiance to the State into the domain of morals as well as into that
of politics; and he who did not "go with the State" in the Rebellion is held to have committed
the unpardonable sin. At Macon I met a man who was one of the leading Unionists in the winter
of 1860-61. He told me how he suffered then for his hostility to Secession, and yet he added,--"I
should have considered myself forever disgraced, if I hadn't heartily gone with the State,
when she decided to fight." And Ben Hill, than whom there are but few more influential men
in the State, advises the people after this fashion,--"I would vote for no man who could take
the Congressional test-oath, because it is the highest evidence of infidelity to the people
of the State." I believe it is the concurrent testimony of all careful travellers in Georgia,
that there is everywhere only cold toleration for the idea of national sovereignty, very little
hope for the future of the State as a member of the Federal Union, and scarcely any pride in
the strength and glory and renown of the United States of America.

Much is said of the hypocrisy of the South. I found but little of it anywhere. The North-Carolinian
calls himself a Unionist, but he makes no special pretence of love for the Union. He desires
many favors, but he asks them generally on the ground that he hated the Secessionists. He expects
the nation to recognize rare virtue in that hatred, and hopes it may win for his State the
restoration of her political rights; but he wears his mask of nationality so lightly that there
is no difficulty in removing it. The South-Carolinian demands only something less than he did
in the days before the war, but he offers no plea of Unionism as a guaranty for the future.
He rests his case on the assumption that he has fully acquiesced in the results of the war,
and he honestly believes that he has so acquiesced. His confidence in South Carolina is so
supreme that he fails to see how much the conflict meant. He walks by such light as he has,
and cannot yet believe that Destiny has decreed his State a secondary place in the Union. The
Georgian began by believing that rebellion in the interest of Slavery was honorable, and the
result of the war has not changed his opinion. He is anxious for readmission to fellowship
with New York and Pennsylvania and Connecticut, but he supports his application by no claim
of community of interest with other States. His spirit is hard and uncompromising; he demands
rights, but does not ask favors; and he is confident that Georgia is fully as important to
the United States as they are to Georgia.

Complaint is made that the Southern people have recently elected military men to most of their
local State offices. We do ourselves a wrong in making this complaint. I found it almost everywhere
true in Georgia and the Carolinas that the best citizens of to-day are the Confederate soldiers
of yesterday. Of course, in many individual cases they are bitter and malignant; but in general
the good of the Union, no less than the hope of the South, lies in the bearing of the men who
were privates and minor officers in the armies of Lee and Johnston. It may not be pleasant
to us to recognize this fact; but I am confident that we shall make sure progress toward securing
domestic tranquillity and the general welfare, just in proportion as we act upon it. It should
be kept in mind that comparatively few of those who won renown on the field were promoters
of rebellion or secession. The original malcontents,--ah! where are they? Some of them at least
are beyond interference in earthly affairs; others are in hopeless poverty and chilling neglect;
others are struggling to mount once more the wave of popular favor. A few of these last have
been successful,--to see that no more of them are so is a national duty. I count it an omen
of good, when I find that one who bore himself gallantly as a soldier has received preferment.
We cannot afford to quarrel on this ground; for, though their courage was for our wounding,
their valor was the valor of Americans.

The really bad feature of the situation with respect to the relations of these States to the
General Government is, that there is not only very little loyalty in their people, but a great
deal of stubborn antagonism, and some deliberate defiance. Further war in the field I do not
deem among the possibilities. Be the leaders never so bloodthirsty, the common people have
had enough of fighting. The bastard Unionism of North Carolina, the haughty and self-complacent
State pride of South Carolina, the arrogant dogmatism and insolent assumption of Georgia,--how
shall we build nationality on such foundations? That is the true plan of reconstruction which
makes haste very slowly. It does not comport with the character of our Government to exact
pledges of any State which are not exacted of all. The one sole needful condition is, that
each State establish a republican form of government, whereby all civil rights at least shall
be assured in their fullest extent to every citizen. The Union is no Union, unless there is
equality of privileges among the States. When Georgia and the Carolinas establish this republican
form of government, they will have brought themselves into harmony with the national will,
and may justly demand readmission to their former political relations in the Union. Each State
has some citizens, who, wiser than the great majority, comprehend the meaning of Southern defeat
with praiseworthy insight. Seeing only individuals of this small class, a traveller might honestly
conclude that the States were ready for self-government. Let not the nation commit the terrible
mistake of acting on this conclusion. These men are the little leaven in the gross body politic
of Southern communities. It is no time for passion or bitterness, and it does not become our
manhood to do anything for revenge. Let us have peace and kindly feeling; yet, that our peace
may be no sham or shallow affair, it is painfully essential that we keep these States awhile
within national control, in order to aid the few wise and just men therein who are fighting
the great fight with stubborn prejudice and hidebound custom. Any plan of reconstruction is
wrong which accepts forced submission as genuine loyalty, or even as cheerful acquiescence
in the national desire and purpose.

IV

Before the war, we heard continually of the love of the master for his slave, and the love
of the slave for his master. There was also much talk to the effect that the negro lived in
the midst of pleasant surroundings, and had no desire to change his situation. It was asserted
that he delighted in a state of dependence, and throve on the universal favor of the whites.
Some of this language we conjectured might be extravagant; but to the single fact that there
was universal good-will between the two classes every Southern white person bore evidence.
So, too, in my late visit to Georgia and the Carolinas, they generally seemed anxious to convince
me that the blacks had behaved well during the war,--had kept at their old tasks, had labored
cheerfully and faithfully, had shown no disposition to lawlessness, and had rarely been guilty
of acts of violence, even in sections where there were many women and children, and but few
white men.

Yet I found everywhere now the most direct antagonism between the two classes. The whites charge
generally that the negro is idle, and at the bottom of all local disturbances, and credit him
with most of the vices and very few of the virtues of humanity. The negroes charge that the
whites are revengeful, and intend to cheat the laboring class at every opportunity, and credit
them with neither good purposes nor kindly hearts. This present and positive hostility of each
class to the other is a fact that will sorely perplex any Northern man travelling in either
of these States. One would say, that, if there had formerly been such pleasant relations between
them, there ought now to be mutual sympathy and forbearance, instead of mutual distrust and
antagonism. One would say, too, that self-interest, the common interest of capital and labor,
ought to keep them in harmony; while the fact is, that this very interest appears to put them
in an attitude of partial defiance toward each other. I believe the most charitable traveller
must come to the conclusion, that the professed love of the whites for the blacks was mostly
a monstrous sham or a downright false pretence. For myself, I judge that it was nothing less
than an arrant humbug.

The negro is no model of virtue or manliness. He loves idleness, he has little conception of
right and wrong, and he is improvident to the last degree of childishness. He is a creature,--as
some of our own people will do well to keep carefully in mind,--he is a creature just forcibly
released from slavery. The havoc of war has filled his heart with confused longings, and his
ears with confused sounds of rights and privileges: it must be the nation's duty, for it cannot
be left wholly to his late master, to help him to a clear understanding of these rights and
privileges, and also to lay upon him a knowledge of his responsibilities. He is anxious to
learn, and is very tractable in respect to minor matters; but we shall need almost infinite
patience with him, for he comes very slowly to moral comprehensions.

Going into the States where I went,--and perhaps the fact is true also of the other Southern
States,--going into Georgia and the Carolinas, and not keeping in mind the facts of yesterday,
any man would almost be justified in concluding that the end and purpose in respect to this
poor negro was his extermination. It is proclaimed everywhere that he will not work, that he
cannot take care of himself, that he is a nuisance to society, that he lives by stealing, and
that he is sure to die in a few months; and, truth to tell, the great body of the people, though
one must not say intentionally, are doing all they well can to make these assertions true.
If it is not said that any considerable number wantonly abuse and outrage him, it must be said
that they manifest a barbarous indifference to his fate, which just as surely drives him on
to destruction as open cruelty would.

There are some men and a few women--and perhaps the number of these is greater than we of the
North generally suppose--who really desire that the negro should now have his full rights as
a human being. With the same proportion of this class of persons in a community of Northern
constitution, it might be justly concluded that the whole community would soon join or acquiesce
in the effort to secure for him at least a fair share of those rights. Unfortunately, however,
in these Southern communities the opinion of such persons cannot have such weight as it would
in ours. The spirit of caste, of which I have already spoken, is an element figuring largely
against them in any contest involving principle,--an element of whose practical workings we
here know very little. The walls between individuals and classes are so high and broad, that
the men and women who recognize the negro's rights and privileges as a freeman are almost as
far from the masses as we of the North are. Moreover, that any opinion savors of the "Yankee"--in
other words, is new to the South--is a fact that even prevents its consideration by the great
body of the people. Their inherent antagonism to everything from the North--an antagonism fostered
and cunningly cultivated for half a century by the politicians in the interest of Slavery--is
something that no traveller can photograph, that no Northern man can understand, till he sees
it with his own eyes, hears it with his own ears, and feels it by his own consciousness. That
the full freedom of the negroes would be acknowledged at once is something we had no warrant
for expecting. The old masters grant them nothing, except at the requirement of the nation,--as
a military and political necessity; and any plan of reconstruction is wrong which proposes
at once or in the immediate future to substitute free-will for this necessity.

Three fourths of the people assume that the negro will not labor, except on compulsion; and
the whole struggle between the whites on the one hand and the blacks on the other hand is a
struggle for and against compulsion. The negro insists, very blindly perhaps, that he shall
be free to come and go as he pleases; the white insists that he shall come and go only at the
pleasure of his employer. The whites seem wholly unable to comprehend that freedom for the
negro means the same thing as freedom for them. They readily enough admit that the Government
has made him free, but appear to believe that they still have the right to exercise over him
the old control. It is partly their misfortune, and not wholly their fault, that they cannot
understand the national intent, as expressed in the Emancipation Proclamation and the Constitutional
Amendment. I did not anywhere find a man who could see that laws should be applicable to all
persons alike; and hence even the best men hold that each State must have a negro code. They
acknowledge the overthrow of the special servitude of man to man, but seek through these codes
to establish the general servitude of man to the commonwealth. I had much talk with intelligent
gentlemen in various sections, and particularly with such as I met during the conventions at
Columbia and Milledgeville, upon this subject, and found such a state of feeling as warrants
little hope that the present generation of negroes will see the day in which their race shall
be amenable only to such laws as apply to the whites.

I think the freedmen divide themselves into four classes: one fourth recognizing; very clearly,
the necessity of work, and going about it with cheerful diligence and wise forethought; one
fourth comprehending that there must be labor, but needing considerable encouragement to follow
it steadily; one fourth preferring idleness, but not specially averse to doing some job-work
about the towns and cities; and one fourth avoiding labor as much as possible, and living by
voluntary charity, persistent begging, or systematic pilfering. It is true, that thousands
of the aggregate body of this people appear to have hoped, and perhaps believed, that freedom
meant idleness; true, too, that thousands are drifting about the country or loafing about the
centres of population in a state of vagabondage. Yet of the hundreds with whom I talked, I
found less than a score who seemed beyond hope of reformation. It is a cruel slander to say
that the race will not work, except on compulsion. I made much inquiry, wherever I went, of
great numbers of planters and other employers, and found but very few cases in which it appeared
that they had refused to labor reasonably well, when fairly treated and justly paid. Grudgingly
admitted to any of the natural rights of man, despised alike by Unionists and Secessionists,
wantonly outraged by many and meanly cheated by more of the old planters, receiving a hundred
cuffs for one helping hand and a thousand curses for one kindly word,--they bear themselves
toward their former masters very much as white men and women would under the same circumstances.
True, by such deportment they unquestionably harm themselves; but consider of how little value
life is from their stand-point. They grope in the darkness of this transition period, and rarely
find any sure stay for the weary arm and the fainting heart. Their souls are filled with a
great, but vague longing for freedom; they battle blindly with fate and circumstance for the
unseen and uncomprehended, and seem to find every man's hand raised against them. What wonder
that they fill the land with restlessness!

However unfavorable this exhibit of the negroes in respect to labor may appear, it is quite
as good as can be made for the whites. I everywhere found a condition of affairs in this regard
that astounded me. Idleness, not occupation, seemed the normal state. It is the boast of men
and women alike, that they have never done an hour's work. The public mind is thoroughly debauched,
and the general conscience is lifeless as the grave. I met hundreds of hale and vigorous young
men who unblushingly owned to me that they had not earned a penny since the war closed. Nine
tenths of the people must be taught that labor is even not debasing. It was pitiful enough
to find so much idleness, but it was more pitiful to observe that it was likely to continue
indefinitely. The war will not have borne proper fruit, if our peace does not speedily bring
respect for labor, as well as respect for man. When we have secured one of these things, we
shall have gone far toward securing the other; and when we have secured both, then indeed shall
we have noble cause for glorying in our country,--true warrant for exulting that our flag floats
over no slave.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Herman; or, Young Knighthood. By E. FOXTON. Boston: Lee & Shepard.

We are entirely uncertain whether this work will be recognized for what it is by our young
country-folk; but we are very certain, if it is not, it will be our young country-folk's loss.
It is, we suppose, a novel. Its author admits that it is a story; but it is not at all the
kind of banquet to which novel-readers are usually invited. We can fancy the consternation
which awaits the devourers of story-books,--those persons, we mean, whose reading is confined
to novels, who lie in wait for Mrs. Wood and Miss Braddon, and stretch their sales into the
double-figured thousands, through whose passive brains plot after plot travels in quick succession
and leaves no sign, and whose name, we fear, is Legion. They will eagerly seize this new story
with the romantic title, be launched auspiciously into gay ball-rooms, glide graciously among
the familiar flounces, dances, and small talk, only to find themselves suddenly and without
warning in some gulf of grave discussion opening out deceptively from the sparkling stream
of the story, or stranded on some lofty sentiment never dreamt of in their philosophy. For
the author's mind is, in the best sense of the word, a discursive one. It is full of positive
thought, and strikes out right and left like a school-boy who must needs relieve his superabundant
spirits by pinching his sister's ear, thrusting his fists in his brother's face, kicking aside
the foot-cushion, and making a plunge at the cat, while he is performing the simple operation
of walking across the room. This book is written out of a mind so full of wit and wisdom that
it overflows at the gentlest touch. It has more sense and learning and power than go to the
making up of a dozen ordinary novels. The very prodigality of its resources is a stumbling-block.
Its great fault is its muchness, if we may borrow a term from Hawthorne's mint. It is like
a young minister's first sermon, into which he frantically attempts to cram the whole body
of divinity. Especially in the early part of the book, we are constantly drawn away front the
story by delightful little essays, sometimes read to us by the author himself,--sometimes wrought
into the conversations by playful anecdotes, by effective character-sketches, and vivid scene
and scenery-paintings. They do not always materially help forward the story, nor do they always
hinder it. They often give it an air of reality, and they always help to utilize the author's
idea. If they do not avail his art, they avail his didactics. Where they are not good for the
story, they are good for something. By many thoughtless, and by all mere novel-readers, they
will probably be skipped; but for ourselves, we confess, that, though high art may regard them
as blemishes, we should not know how to give the order for their removal. Considered in themselves,
in their style and sentiment, the little digressions, the long conversations, the carefully
wrought side-scenes are so rich in a certain tender religious wisdom, yet crisp and piquant
withal, and so full of living thought on the great questions of the day, that we dwell in them
with enjoyment, though with a compunctious half-consciousness that they ought not to be there.

But though we are tolerant of discursiveness where it affects only the flow of the story, we
like it less where it disturbs the flow of the style. A paragraph ought never, by the mere
form into which it is cast, to require to be read over and over in order to get at the meaning.
Yet we are confident that nine readers out of ten would need to read the following sentence
more than once in order to get at its true construction:--

"Oh, that I were able to conform myself to that further fictitious, not to say factitious,
standard of taste, according to which, just as,--though a hemorrhage from the nose, howsoever
ill-timed, distressing, or even dangerous to the patient, is comic,--one from the lungs is
poetical and tragic; and an extravasation of blood about the heart is not inappropriate to
the demise of the most romantic civil hero, (who would seem, indeed, capable of escaping an
earthly immortality only by means of pulmonary disease or some accident, unless pounced upon
by some convenient and imposing epidemic,) while a similar affection of the brain of an imaginary
personage can be rendered affecting or excusable only by a weight of years and virtues in the
patient; so certain moral diseases, alias sins, in actual life making the sinner by no means
peculiarly engaging, have in fiction acquired a prescriptive right to our regard!"

But the true power and pathos of the book rise ever high and higher, and all minor defects
are flooded out of sight. It is no small happiness that we have to do from the beginning with
a family hitherto wellnigh unknown in American noveldom,--a family rich and not vulgar, beautiful
and not frivolous, highly educated and fastidious, yet neither bitter nor disdainful,--refined,
honorable, serene, affectionate. We are not merely told that they are so. We mingle with them,
we see it for ourselves, and are refreshed and revived thereby. It is pleasant to miss for
once the worldly mother, the empty daughter, the glare and glitter of shoddy, the low rivalry,
the degrading strife, which can hardly be held up even to our reprobation without debasing
us. Whether or not the best mode of inculcating virtue is that which gives us an example to
imitate rather than a vice to shun, we are sure it is the most agreeable. It is infinitely
sweeter to be attracted by the fragrance of Paradise than to be repelled by the sulphurous
fumes of Pandemonium. The contemplation of such a home as this book opens to us is pleasant
to the eyes and good for the heart's food, and to be desired to make one wise. A pure domestic
love shines through it, tender, tranquil, and intense. Its inmates are daintily, delicately,
yet distinctly drawn. They are courteous without being cold, playful without rudeness, serious,
yet sensible, reticent or demonstrative as the case may be, yet in all things natural. It is
not book, it is life. Each is a type of character matchless in its way, but each is also a
living soul, whose outward elegance and grace are but the fit adjuncts of its inward purity
and peace. Even if such a home never existed, we should still defend its portrayal, as the
Vicar of Wakefield wrote his wife's epitaph during her life that she might have a chance to
become worthy of its praise.

It is a happiness also to make the acquaintance of women who are brilliant and not bad, whose
innocence does not run into insipidity, who are no less queens than vassals, worthily the one,
royally the other. We meet in books many single-women, but they are usually embittered by disappointment
or by hope deferred,--angular, envious, busybodies in other women's matters; or they are comically
odd, self-ridiculing, and unrestful; or, worst of all, they have become morally attenuated
by a thwarted love or a long course of dismal and absurd self-sacrifice and are so resigned,
colorless, and impassive, that, like Naaman, we are tempted to go away in a rage. But where
shall we find another Clara,--beautiful, attractive, radiant, serenely living her happy life,
"aimless," but not "anxious," doing every day the duty that lies next her hand, scarcely knowing
that it is duty, never fancying that she is out of her sphere or thinking whether she is in
it, tranced in tranquil reveries that spiritualize instead of spoiling her, and, shining ever
along her untroubled way,

    "With the moon's beauty and the moon's soft pace"?

All the chief actors in the book are clever, rising often into the high latitudes of genius,
yet without that perverse kink which is wont to mar all satisfaction. There is no taint of
poison in the air they breathe. There is no passion hovering on the border-land of crime, or
defiling its garments with the dust of earthliness. Love is what it ever should be, all noble
and elevating,--worship as well as devotion,--annihilating only selfishness, sanctifying, not
sacrificing, duty. There is no yielding to a depraved popular taste, no abdication of an inherited
throne to stand on a level with the unthinking crowd and receive its worthless applauses. Rather
the crowd is bidden higher, to enter upon its own rightful, royal possessions. This is the
true missionary work. Manhood and womanhood in their best development are the theme of the
book; and they are touched with so fine a grace, outlined with so true a pencil, tinted with
so imperial a splendor, that the most discontented may be satisfied. Does this seem slight
praise? In truth it can most rarely be bestowed. Why, it is matter for thanksgiving when we
are not outraged!

On this Field of the Cloth of Gold rises a knight without fear and without reproach. Purely
human and most heroic, as unpretending as spotless, womanly, gentle, yet of positive and aggressive
strength, strength to do silently, to endure steadfastly, to die conquered, yet victorious,
to live in the front, yet alone,--is it an ideal character? So much the more let it be studied,
that our souls may absorb it and produce the reality: for it is ideal after no impossible sort.
In his simple purity, in his fidelity to right, in his chivalry and his religion, he is only
what all can be. It is an American boy, called to no loftier living, to no more "extraordinary
seeking," than his country has a right to claim from all her sons,--called to no sterner sacrifice,
to no severer suffering, than many a brave lad has faced and may yet face again. If we could
read the silent history of these last years, should we not find in thousands of young hearts
the story of a resolve no less firm, of a pain scarcely less deadly? The pent-up agony in the
prison-house of Slavery before Northern cannon thundered at its doors is a tale that will never
be told. God grant its horrors may never be surpassed,--never renewed! But we cannot say that
Herman's woe is too highly wrought. We cannot console ourselves with thinking, that, however
vividly delineated, it is mere fictitious suffering. We know that such things have happened,--yes,
and things immeasurably worse. We know that Herman did only what any high and clear-souled
man ten years ago might have owed to do, and that he suffered only the natural consequences
of such doing. Ten years ago this country of ours was so that a man might legally and without
redress be tortured to death for doing that which was not merely a plain obedience to the plainest
precepts of the Bible, but what in any other Christian country than our own would have been
instantly recognized as a deed of the highest heroism. And if we are not careful to do justly,
all the new ropes wherewith we have bound this accursed Samson of Slavery will be broken like
a thread, and our last state be worse than our first.

We know no work of fiction so full as this of beauty and wisdom, so free from folly, so resplendent
with intellectual life, with moral purity, and Christian holiness, so apt to teach, so graceful
in the teaching. We follow it with admiration and sympathy, from its gay beginning, through
all the pain, the passion, and the peace, to the heartache of its closing pages,--that close,
supremely sad, yet strangely beautiful. "She sang to him, and he slept; she spoke, and he did
not awaken." It is the record of heavy struggle, of defeat that was triumph, and triumph that
was Heaven.

We offer no congratulations to the new author; nor do we deprecate for him any harsh censure;--not
only because praise and censure seem alike rugged and halting by the sweet strains we seek
to celebrate, but because he who in his "saintly solitude" can create a world so fair is independent
of these light afflictions. For him there is always sympathy, great companionship, and godlike
work. From this Earth can nothing take away; than this she has nothing more to give.

History of the Rise and Influence of the Spirit of Rationalism in Europe. By W. E. H. LECKY,
M. A. Two Vols. New York: D. Appleton & Co.

Mr. Lecky has given us a book replete with interesting matter; and yet, owing to some lack
of intellectual mastery in him over his materials, it leaves a singularly vague and dispiriting
impression on the mind in reading it. The author has a plethora of knowledge in regard to the
surface changes in history, but no insight whatever apparently into the meaning of history
itself, into the philosophic causes which these changes attest and obey. He is a man of uncommon
bulk, but deficient muscle. His mental furniture enfeebles his intellectual faculty. His body
obstructs his soul. Sumptus fructum superat. His book costs the author more than it comes to.
He is so absorbed in the contemplation of the accidents of history as to forget that history
itself is but a narrow river, conducting to the broad, illimitable ocean of human brotherhood
or equality,--and that to stand upon the bank, therefore, and watch its successive waves, instead
of manfully leaping in and committing one's life and fortunes to it, is scarcely the part of
a wise man. Mr. Lecky's essay would seem to have originated more in a desire to try his hand
at theorizing than in any necessity to ventilate some previous drifts from the beginning to
the end of his book. You never feel yourself in a compact, water-tight boat, obedient to rudder
and sail, but at most on a raft, drifting at the absolute gré of the tides, in a certain general
direction, no doubt, but with no foresight of the specific intellectual port at which you are
to bring up. Occasionally the mist condenses, the rain patters down, you catch a glimpse of
far-off mountaintops, and suppose the entire landscape will soon be bathed in sunshine. But
no, a new inrush of illustrative facts takes place, and all is fog again. There is a great
deal of good writing in the book, and it leaves nothing to be desired in the way of advanced
sentiment. But we fail to perceive its bearing upon the progress of ideas. It may flatter a
superficial scientific optimism, but it will obstruct rather than promote the interests of
philosophic thought, for this reason, that it inclines the reader to suspend his convictions
upon some fated progress of events which will of itself do the world's thinking for it, and
turn both heart and mind at last into cheerful, complacent pensioners of science.

The object of Mr. Lecky is to trace the history of the spirit of Rationalism,--the spirit which
disposes men to reject all belief founded upon authority, and to make the causes of phenomena
intrinsic and not extrinsic to the phenomena themselves. Rationalism, if we rightly apprehend
Mr. Lecky, is not any precise doctrine or system of doctrine, but only a diffused bias or tendency
of the mind to regard the power which is operative in Nature and history as a rigidly creative
or constitutive power, rather than a redemptive or formative one. Doubtless Mr. Lecky, if he
should ever consider the subject, would be free to admit that the creative action implies a
necessary reaction on the part of the creature. But he has manifestly no sympathy with the
early or imaginative faiths of the world, which represent creation as a physical rather than
a rational exhibition of the Divine power. His entire book is written in the service of the
opposite conception. To be sure, he does not discuss the new faith as a theologian, but only
as an historian. It is not an affair of the heart with him, but only of the head. He takes
no pains to commend it as an advance in point of truth upon the old faith, and does not once
even avow his own intellectual identification with it. In short, he is not the retained attorney
of the new faith, but its disinterested annalist, treating it simply as an historic change
wrought in the texture of men's thought, promoted by such and such causes, attested by such
and such effects, but independent of all partisan judgment and clamor either favorable or adverse.
Still there is no doubt of the historian's own private bias. He applauds ex animo the change
he records; and his book would have gained greatly in interest, if he could only have written
it a little more from the heart and a little less from the head. For then, apart from the incidental
advantage which would accrue to it, to the reader's imagination, as being a revelation of the
author's living personality, we think the author himself could hardly fail to have seen, before
he had finished his task, that there is no essential contradiction between the world's earlier
and later faiths; that these faiths differ not as good and evil or true and false differ, but
only and at most as root and stem and flower differ in the plant, or birth, growth, and maturity
in the animal.

The lesson which Mr. Lecky inculcates upon his reader is this: that civilization and miracle
are fatally opposed; that the former waxes or wanes precisely as the latter is discredited
or accredited. History shows civilization to have thriven precisely as men have outgrown their
belief in miracle, or the possibility of any outward Divine intervention in Nature, and have
learned to insist upon strictly natural causes for all natural effects. The fruits of Mr. Lecky's
research on this subject are varied and interesting, and we cordially commend his volumes to
the reader as an inviting storehouse of materials for reflection; but we very much doubt whether
the school of thought he represents has, on the whole, mastered the problem of civilization
any more thoroughly than its rival. The difference between the two schools is, indeed, one
of principle more than of words; but we cannot help thinking, nevertheless, that the controversy
is needlessly protracted on both sides, for want of a sufficiently definite and comprehensive
statement of the point in dispute. Let us see whether we cannot make at least an approximation
to such a statement.

What is agitated, then, between the two rival schools of thought is the Divine power: not the
existence of such power, for there is no noticeable difference on that point, but only its
quality or mode of operation. The Orthodox attribute to God a strictly moral, which is a specific
method of action, addressed to purely personal or subjective issues; their opponents, a strictly
physical, which is a universal method, addressed to purely impersonal and objective issues.
The one party assigns to God a finite personality, or one limited by Nature; the other, an
indefinite personality, as identified with natural law. The Orthodox, of course, maintain that
God's creative action was universal, inasmuch as it contemplated only cosmical issues; but
as that mode of action was exhausted by its own universality, His subsequent relation to His
creatures must be purely administrative, as expressing His personal pleasure or displeasure
in their various functioning. The other side do not dogmatize about the Divine power, or its
method of action, in the abstract. They only insist, as against their antagonists, that the
Divine administration of Nature is not, within the limits of our science, personal; that it
is not a power exerted upon Nature, or from without, and in contravention of her ordinary processes;
that, so far as our knowledge goes, on the contrary, whatever may be our faith, it is a power
invariably exerted through Nature, or from within, and therefore in habitual consistency with
her ordinary effects. In other words, they insist, that, so far as the Divine power is cognizable
to us, it falls exclusively within and never without the routine of Nature; and as universality
is the characteristic of that routine, they do not hesitate, on behalf of science, to affirm
that the Divine action is never addressed to specific or differential results, but always to
universal or identical ones. In short, they logically refuse to the Divine power as exhibited
in Nature all personal or moral quality, as inferring on the part of Deity any possible unequal
or inequitable relations to the creatures He has made; and assign to all such reputed partial
exhibitions of it a purely educative, and therefore universal, bearing upon the mind of the race.

Such, in brief, is the question agitated between the old and new faiths; whether God acts outwardly
upon Nature, or inwardly through Nature,--that is to say, whether His action is specific as
addressed to private ends, or strictly universal as addressed only to public ends. If the former
hypothesis be true, then sense rightfully controls reason, and everything is exactly what it
appears. If the latter hypothesis be true, then sense rightfully serves reason, and nothing
is as it appears to be, namely, absolute and independent of everything else, but simply phenomenal
and relative to everything else. It is evident to a glance that a controversy so eminently
scientific could never have gone to the unwholesome lengths which it has reached in our day,
unless there were something in it more than meets the eye: unless, for example, the interests
of morality, which is the only recognized bond of our existing societies, were at stake. For
if one and the same law binds all Nature, then plant and animal and man have one and the same
destiny, so far as their nature goes. If, for example, the plant as one form of natural existence,
and the animal as another form, are what they severally are, by no means absolutely, or in
themselves, but only by relation to all other plants and animals, then man, who is only a higher,
that is, a moral, or evil absolutely or in himself, but only relatively to all other men. And
if we allow morality only this relative force,--if the good man is not good absolutely or in
himself, nor the evil man evil absolutely or in himself,--why, then our existing civilization,
which is built upon such absoluteness, has a fictitious basis, and must fall to the ground.

Hinc ilia lachrymæ. This is why a question apparently of pure science turns out practically
so full of inward heartburning and mutual reviling. Neither theology nor science is competent
to the philosophic recognition of man's associated destiny, and hence have neither of them
the secret of those perturbations which ever and anon gloom our political atmosphere and shut
out to the eye of sensuous thought the entire future of the race. Philosophy alone possesses
this secret, because it alone perceives that all our political, civil, and even domestic broils
grow out of this identical warfare between men's religions and scientific convictions,--have
no other source than that persistent insubmission which the interests of force, as represented
by priesthoods and governments, are under to the interests of freedom, represented by society.
Philosophy mediates between the religious and secular thought of mankind, by making the sphere
of God's universal action identical with that of man's organic necessities, and the sphere
of His specific action identical with that of man's moral freedom: so harmonizing the two in
one subject. Philosophy alone, in short, is competent to the future of human destiny, because
it alone adjusts the relation of morals to physics, alone adjusts the specific interests avouched
by religion with the universal interests avouched by science. And its competence is owing to
this fact exclusively, that it alone apprehends or appreciates the distinctively social destiny
of man, a destiny in which the interests of the most intense and exquisite freedom or individuality
are bound up with the interests of the most imperious necessity or community,--or, what is
the same thing, which presents every man no longer in subjective or moral, but only in objective
or æsthetic, contrast with his kind, that so the general harmony may be inflamed by the widest
partial diversity. Thus philosophy bids society recognise itself at once as God's perfect work
on earth,--bids it rise to instant self-consciousness as the real Divine substance which Church
and State have only feebly typified, and put on all Divine strength and peace as its rightful
breastplate and ornament. For if all these fleeting phenomenal discords among men, upon which
our existing civilization proceeds, claim no longer an absolute, but only a relative Divine
sanction, a sanction in relation to the interests of human society exclusively, what remains
for society to do but to organize itself afresh upon an eternal basis, that is, upon the acknowledgment
of a force in man infinitely transcending his moral force, because it forever unites instead
of disjoining him with God, being the force of spontaneous or productive action?

An Address on the Limits of Education, read before the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
November 16th, 1865. By JACOB BIGELOW, M. D. Boston: E. P. Dutton & Co.

Dr. Bigelow has had the honor of naturalizing, if not of inventing, the name of the Institute
before which he delivered this address. His work on the Elements of Technology was the first
in which this name appeared, at least in recent times. It designates that class of sciences
which bear on art,--sciences of practical application. Dr. Bigelow, in this address, places
himself emphatically with those who believe that mental discipline can be obtained as well
by useful as by useless studies, and who think it a waste of time "to spend five years of the
most susceptible part of life in acquiring a minute familiarity with tongues which are daily
becoming more obsolete." We welcome this address as an important ally for those who desire
that our schools and colleges shall not insist that every young man wishing for their advantages
shall devote one half of his time to the details of Greek and Latin Grammar and Prosody. Dr.
Bigelow is no rash reformer, no youthful enthusiast, no reckless radical. He has the confidence
of the whole community for his science, scholarship, and ripe judgment. When, therefore, a
man of his character and position, without passion or prejudice, publishes the conclusions
which this address contains, we may hope that a change is at hand in the course of study now
pursued in our colleges and universities, and in the schools which prepare for them. Dr. Bigelow
does not desire Latin or Greek to be excluded from the college course; but he thinks that "under
the name of classical literature they premise and afterward carry on a cumbrous burden of dead
languages, kept alive through the dark ages, and now stereotyped in England, by the persistent
conservatism of a privileged order." He thinks that the mind might be disciplined and trained
quite as well and more cheaply by other studies than that of the Greek language. He is of opinion,
that, if Greek should once cease to be made a requisite in our universities, though it would
be studied still by a certain class, it would never be adopted again as an indispensable academic
study.

In all this we quite agree with him. Thus far, almost everything else has been subordinated
in our college course to the study of Greek and Latin. At least one half of the time of a young
man desiring a liberal education, from twelve to twenty years of age, is given up to Greek
and Latin. The other half is left for Mathematics, Geography, History, Geology, Chemistry,
Natural History, Metaphysics, Ethics, Astronomy, and General Reading. Before entering college,
his time must be almost wholly occupied with the study of Latin, Greek, and Mathematics. For
he is required, in order to enter our principal university, to know Virgil, Cæsar, Cicero,
Xenophon, three books of the Iliad, Arithmetic, Algebra, and Geometry, and to have the whole
Latin and Greek Grammar at his tongue's end. He must also be able to write Latin, and to write
Greek with the accents. But he need not know a word of American or Modern History (he must
know the History of Greece and Rome),--not a word of any modern language or modern science,--nothing
of Chemistry, Astronomy, Geology,--nothing of modern literature. Though he must be able to
write Greek, he need not be able to write English. And so, after being obliged to spend the
largest part of his time before entering college in learning Greek and Latin philology, is
he then allowed to drop these studies and begin others? Not so. He is not even permitted to
leave off Greek and Latin philology, in order to become acquainted with Greek and Latin literature,
much less to become acquainted with any other. Nearly all the way through college he keeps
on writing Creek and Latin exercises; and the result of it all is, that he not unfrequently
becomes so disgusted with these languages that he forgets them as soon as he can, and on leaving
college can hardly read with ease the simplest Greek or Latin book.

Such being, as is well known to all graduates of college, the present state of affairs, we
welcome with profound gratitude the present address of Dr. Bigelow. Coming from such a source,
containing such unanswerable arguments, expressed in so lucid and striking a form, the effect
must be excellent. We have dwelt upon a single point of the address, because it seemed to us
the most important and valuable part of it. But there is in it much besides, that is both instructive
and interesting; and we recommend the pamphlet as one to be carefully read, and by no means
to be confounded with the commoner style of public addresses.

Vida de Abran Lincoln, décimosesto Presidente de los Estados Unidos, precedida de una Introduccion.
Por D. F. SARMIENTO. Nueva York: D. Appleton y Ca.

This life of our lamented President, by the distinguished Argentine, now Minister to Washington,
is a very interesting circumstance, aside from the merit of the work, which is very great.
It is an amazing fact that so few Eastern Americans read and speak Spanish, when one portion
of our country borders upon a Republic that speaks that language only, and when we are so nearly
allied in feeling and free principles of government to South America, twenty-three of whose
Republics are now represented in the diplomatic body at Washington. The most remarkable of
these gentlemen is Colonel D. F. Sarmiento, who has done more to elevate the Republic he represents
than any other individual; for he has devoted many years of his active and patriotic life to
introducing North American, and indeed we may say Massachusetts, systems of education into
South America,--first into Chili, where he was an exile for twenty years, during the reign
of the tyrants who brought such suffering upon the Argentine Republic, and since that time
into the Argentine Republic itself, where he was at one time Governor of the province of San
Juan, at another, Minister of Instruction in the province and city of Buenos Ayres, also Senator
in their Congress. He took up the cause of his country when quite a boy, and has devoted himself
to it, either in the field or as an educator, ever since. His eye has always been open to behold
the workings of the free institutions that he desired to see established in it, and he has
been probably the most powerful instrument in inducing his government to adopt the Constitution
and laws of the United States, so that it is truly a sister Republic, and as such appeals irresistibly
to our sympathy.

The Life of Mr. Lincoln, which he has now written for his own countrymen, has of course been
gathered chiefly from biographies already written; but the interest of the work consists in
the adaptation of it to the South American needs. To set forth the dignity of labor, the supremacy
of the moral sentiments, the duty of education for the whole people, has been his aim; and
he has enjoyed, and made others enjoy, the fact that two men of the people, par excellence,
who had no adventitious aids of wealthy friends, or even of educated friends, did, by force
of character and native powers of mind, come to be the free choice of this great people for
President and Vice-President at a time when a new epoch opened in its history: for even before
the war broke out, the "irrepressible conflict" was felt to be upon us, and we needed the best
of helmsmen, and the wisest,--in that sense of the word wisdom which includes goodness as well
as intelligence. We hope to see the Introduction to this work translated in full. The book
closes with a translation of Mr. Lincoln's favorite poem, "Oh, why should the spirit of mortal
be proud?" by young Bartholomew Mitre, one of Señor Sarmiento's legation, a son of the President
of the Argentine Republic.

A few months since, Señor Sarmiento issued a pamphlet, giving an account of the splendid resources
of the Republic, in answer to inquiries made by those who wished to emigrate thither. He also
wrote, many years ago, a very interesting work, called "Civilization and Barbarism," giving
an account of the reigns of some of those tyrants who so long arrested the great career of
the Republic. That work is to be translated and published, and will give a new feeling of interest
in the history of South America's struggles for freedom. If it had been one united country,
like the United States, instead of being cut up into so many governments, it would have been
easier for foreigners (if, indeed, North Americans should be called foreigners in South America)
to follow it in its various changes; but, except where some great man, like Bolivar, made himself
conspicuous, it was difficult, without much investigation of details, to keep the track of
their proceedings, or to tell which side was specifically right,--for a revolution, to be very
interesting, must have its foundation in great principles. The answer to this may be, that
to throw off the yoke of foreign dominion implies a great principle, and this is true; yet,
until it is done intelligently rather than instinctively, it does not challenge the attention
of the world.

Señor Sarmiento understands our institutions theoretically, as only those foreigners can who
have suffered the ills of tyranny and oppression. Such men look at us from their various stand-points,
and reason ethically upon the effect which freedom from all undue authority should have upon
the human mind, and they judge of us by our theory rather than by our practice; and when they
come amongst us, they are often disappointed and disheartened to find that we, too, are selfish
and hesitate to stretch the helping hand to our fellow-sufferers. When they have patience to
look deeper than the surface, however, they see that there is a hidden might in the possibilities
created by political freedom; and since the outbreak of the war which has cost the nation such
blood and treasure, they have seen that they were not mistaken,--that prosperity had not wholly
spoiled us,--that the latent force only needed a stimulus to resolve itself into noble action;
and such lives as Lincoln's and Johnson's are to them the most glorious expositions of the
principles for which they have borne everything, suffered everything, and hoped everything.
Our suffering neighbors, the Mexicans, may be helped in their struggles by the diffusion of
this Spanish Life of Mr. Lincoln; for Sarmiento has dwelt with great minuteness upon all those
features of our institutions which younger republics need to know in detail. It is, indeed,
a manual of instruction for any young republic. He describes minutely the proceedings of the
trial of Mr. Lincoln's assassins, evidently with the intention of showing to his countrymen
the mode of conducting such proceedings to secure the ends of justice; and he often dwells
upon the habitual regard of the majesty of Law evinced by our people in great emergencies,
such as at the first election and at the re-election of Mr. Lincoln, when the whole nation
stood breathless, as it were, and reverentially waited for that vox populi, which is theoretically
vox Dei in a republic, but which, alas! does not always prove so. If all parts of the Republic
were intelligently educated, it would doubtless be so without fail; but demagogues will always
flourish and rule where there is ignorance and superstition, and the schoolmaster has not been
abroad yet in the whole length and breadth of our land. Sarmiento never loses an opportunity
of dwelling with power and eloquence, when addressing his countrymen, as he has often done
upon this subject, on the advantages of a diffused knowledge among the people. Indeed, if all
that he has written and said--even that portion of it which is recorded in the Buenos Ayres
Common School Annals--could be collected, it would make a noble volume for all Spanish lands,--except,
indeed, Old Spain, where there is not light enough to read it by.

Richard Cobden, the Apostle of Free Trade: his Political Career and Public Services. A Biography.
By JOHN MCGILCHRIST, Author of "The Life of Lord Dundonald." etc. New York: Harper & Brothers.

This unassuming volume, of small size and plain covers, is strictly what it pretends to be,
a simple biography, and therefore, apart from its subject, it is a book to be commended. We
do not see the author on every page, we are not forced to stop and listen to his reflections,
nor to long digressions into history, too commonly the fault in contemporaneous biography of
political men. The writer kindly remembers that the reader's ignorance or knowledge does not
rest upon his conscience. Therefore we find in the little book what we wish, the story of Richard
Cobden, "the international man"; and it is a noble life-history, of which no American should
be ignorant.

His success in business, remarkable as it was, is a greater source of wonder and admiration
in England than in America, where the rapid accumulation of a fortune and the creation of a
large mercantile house have hitherto been matters of less rare occurrence than in older countries;
but the result and use of Richard Cobden's financial success are as unprecedented and surprising
at one end of the money-making and money-spending world as the other.

Soon after the establishment of his business house in Manchester, Mr. Cobden interested himself
in the public welfare of that city. His labors in behalf of the people attracted John Bright
to his side, and at the early age of thirty years he had made a "decided local mark."

The saying, true and old as the fact men call character, that it is what an individual is,
and not what he does, which marks him good or ill among his kind, holds eminently true with
regard to Richard Cobden. Not only was the range of his sympathies wide, the aim was sure;
"he never lost sight," said Mr. Disraeli, "of the sympathies of those whom he addressed; and
so, generally avoiding to drive his arguments to an extremity, he became, as a speaker, both
practical and persuasive"; and the same power, brought to bear upon the actions and communications
of every day, made him a puissant servant of the Right.

There are three or four benefactions, however, which he was instrumental in conferring upon
his own country, and indirectly upon all countries, for which he has become justly celebrated.
These are tangible and enduring proofs of character for those who knew him not, and show his
sympathy to have transcended the bounds of mere sentiment, and passed into the region of energetic
self-sacrifice.

His efforts for the Anti-Corn-Law and Free Trade in England cannot be over-estimated. His life
and strength and fortune were as nothing in comparison with his desire to benefit the people.
When he first comprehended the necessity of labor in the Anti-Corn-Law struggle, he determined
to press Mr. Bright, whose abilities had already produced a deep impression upon Mr. Cobden,
into the service; but Mr. Bright had lately lost his wife and had retired to Leamington, where
Mr. Cobden found him bowed down by grief. "'Come with me,' said Cobden, 'and we will never
rest until we abolish the Corn-Laws.' Bright arose and went with him; and thus was his great
sorrow turned to the nation's and the world's advantage."

Years afterward, a short time before their final triumph in behalf of Free Trade, Mr. Cobden
saw his fortune becoming materially injured, besides his actual losses, estimated at twenty
thousand pounds. His courage failed at length, and he went so far as to write to Mr. Bright
that it was his intention to withdraw from the agitation and endeavor to retrieve his business.
Then in turn Mr. Bright went to his friend, in Manchester, and was successful in urging him
to reconsider his determination. It was agreed among the Free-Traders to bestow eighty thousand
pounds upon Mr. Cobden when the struggle was ended, and he soon after received this manifest
mark of their esteem and gratitude.

His labors to preserve peace, to strengthen the bonds of amity and weaken the causes for distrust
between England and France, were earnest, unwearying, and fruitful in their results. His endeavors
also to stem the dreadful tide drifting into the Crimean War, and his appeal in the House of
Commons, when war became imminent with China, "that a select committee be appointed to examine
into the state of our commercial relations with that country," prove his unswerving principles,
and his energetic desire to preserve peace, until war should be declared a national necessity.

A man of the iron integrity of Cobden found himself necessarily in opposition to a man of popularity
and self-aggrandizement, like Palmerston. Therefore, when the prime-minister announced his
determination to reserve certain seats in his cabinet and ministry "for the leaders of advanced
Liberalism," Richard Cobden declined the position appointed to himself, saying to Lord Palmerston,
"that he had always regarded him as a most dangerous minister for England, and his views still
remained the same."

One of Mr. Cobden's last efforts in the House of Commons was for the repeal of the Paper Duty.
He said,--"If I were a young man just fresh from college, with nothing in the world but a good
education, there is nothing I should work for with so much interest as making perfectly free
the press of this country, by removing all the taxes which tend to render scarce and dear literary
productions." The last time Mr. Cobden addressed a public audience, he said,--"If I were a
rich man, I would endow a professor's chair at Oxford and Cambridge to instruct the undergraduates
of those universities in American history. I would undertake to say, and I speak advisedly,
that I will take any undergraduate now at Oxford or Cambridge and ask him to put his finger
on Chicago, and I will undertake to say that he does not go within a thousand miles of it....
To bring up young men from college with no knowledge of the country in which the great drama
of modern politics and national life is now being worked out,--who are ignorant of a country
like America, but who, whether it be for good or for evil, must exercise more influence in
this country than any other class,--to bring up the young destitute of such knowledge, and
to place them in responsible positions in the government is, I say, imperilling its best interests;
and earnest remonstrances ought to be made against such a state of education by every public
man who values in the slightest degree the future welfare of his country." He concluded his
speech by saying,--"Do you suppose it possible, when the knowledge of the principles of political
economy has elevated the working classes, and when that elevation is continually progressing,
that you can permanently exclude the whole mass of them from the franchise? It is their interest
to set about solving the problem, and, to prevent any danger, they ought to do so without further
delay."

The speech of Lord Palmerston in the House of Commons, after the death of Mr. Cobden, must
be familiar to all readers. It came to round the measure of his eulogy, which had been sung
in the East and in the West, in the North and in the South, and at length was heard even from
the heart of Nazareth. We will not quote here the words of England's late minister; we would
only urge those who love the study of nobility to read the Life of Richard Cobden, remembering
such men "are set here for examples."

The Human Hair, and the Cutaneous Diseases which affect it: together with Essays on Acne, Sycosis,
and Cloasma. By B. C. PERRY, Dermatologist. New York: James Miller.

This is the first book of its kind which has been published, and it is well calculated to do
good service in many ways. The author proposed to himself in its preparation so to present
all topics which relate to the hair and scalp in health and disease, that his treatise should
not only possess value as being founded upon a just discrimination of physiological principles,
and interest for the general reader by reason of its familiarity of manner and the ana by which
the subject should be illustrated, but also be of service to all who care to understand the
nature of an important part of the physical system.

Upon the whole, this purpose has been well carried into effect; and every chapter of the comely
volume bears witness to the research and reflection of the author. With no similar work for
a guide or model, it was necessary to derive from the volumes of general and comparative physiology
such facts and deductions as related to the theme; and that such have been drawn from recognized
authorities, the frequent references to the writings of Carpenter, Wilson, Plumbe, Neligan,
Rayer, and others of like eminence, will show.

Taking these collations of scientific statement as a basis, Dr. Perry proceeds--after giving
some space to anecdotes and historical notes concerning the chevelure of former times--to speak
at length of the formation and composition of the hair, of the unreasonable and injudicious
treatment to which it is commonly subjected, and of its proper management. He then passes on
to discuss the cutaneous diseases to which the scalp is liable, and by which of course the
hair is affected to its detriment, devotes some chapters to the discussion of some diseases
peculiar to the face, and concludes his volume with an Appendix containing an exposition of
the constituents of many favorite and famous cosmetics, pointing out at the same time their
true character, the danger and unpleasantness of which, he says, are disguised with much empirical
skill.

The fundamental principle of Dr. Perry's treatise is, that the hair is ever in danger of being
killed by much cherishing. He regards it as a delicate vegetable, growing in a tender soil,
and amply supplied by Nature with the elements needed for its support and development. The
skin of the head should not, he tells us, be subjected to any rough treatment, neither should
it be exposed to sudden alternations of temperature. Cleanliness, gentle usage, and mild, innocuous
specifics--vegetable, whenever possible--are his reliance to keep the hair in good order, and
restore the proper tone when lost by negligence or disease. The harsh friction of the stiff,
"penetrating hair-brush," the scraping of the fine comb, "the 'shampooing' operation of the
hairdresser, with his exacerbating compound, a hundred degrees too violent, and his cataract
of cold water at the end," are all condemned as injurious, together with the myriad nostrums
in the form of oils, pomades, and the like. In dealing with these last, the author is indeed
severe, remarking that "generally they are most mischievous, as well as common and filthy,
mixtures, with nothing refined or elegant about them but their titles." For greasy compounds
he has no tolerance, charging upon them, that, although they may for the moment lubricate and
soften the hair, they burden the scalp, clog its pores, deaden the roots of the hair, and cause
or increase many abnormal conditions of the cuticle. And certainly the formulæ; which are quoted
in the Appendix go far to arouse in the reader the disgust for the popular preparations of
the day which the writer does not attempt to conceal.

In those chapters which discuss the scalp and hair in disease, Dr. Perry takes the ground,
that the trouble is primarily in the skin, and that remedial treatment should therefore be
directed to it. He mentions the different eruptive and other affections in turn, and quotes
the method of procedure advised by medical men, in connection with a statement of the manner
of practice which he has successfully adopted, illustrating his views with very good wood-cuts
derived from the atlases of Wilson, Neligan, and Dendy. In many cases he believes constitutional
debility to be the primary difficulty, and recommends a tonic regimen as the best preliminary
to a course of local treatment.

Without, of course, attempting to give minute directions for the management of all diseased
conditions of the head and hair,--which would be alike impracticable in a volume of this popular
character and unprofitable to himself as a practitioner in such cases,--Dr. Perry gives a large
number of recipes which his own experience or that of his favorite authors has proved to be
trustworthy and serviceable, the ingredients of which are cleanly, simple, and agreeable, adding
plain rules for the rational culture and preservation of the hair.

The book has its faults of style, to be sure,--principal among which is a tendency to make
too much of the scientific investigation and the acquirement of the writer, extending sometimes
almost to pedantry in the use of long words and large phrases; but it contains much information
that is important and can be found nowhere else except by troublesome comparison of extended
treatises, and a deal of plain common-sense that should commend it to attention and respect.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS. $1.75.

Life and Times of Joseph Warren. By Richard Frothingham. Boston. Little, Brown, & Co. 8vo.
pp. xx., 558. $3.50.

Elements of Political Economy. By Arthur Latham Perry, Professor of History and Political Economy
in Williams College. New York. C. Scribner & Co. 8vo. pp. xx., 449. $2.50.

The Vicarious Sacrifice, grounded on Principles of Universal Obligation. By Horace Bushnell.
New York C. Scribner & Co. 8vo. pp. 552. $3.00. By the Rev. John F. Hurst, A. M. With an Appendix
of Literature, New York. C. Scribner & Co. 8vo. pp. xvi., 623. $3.00.

Allworth Abbey. $2.00.

Miss Carew. A Novel. By Amelia B. Edwards. New York. Harper & Brothers. 8vo. pp. 141. paper.
50 cts.

Notes from Plymouth Pulpit: a Collection of Memorable Passages from the Discourses of Henry
Ward Beecher. With a Sketch of Mr. Beecher and the Lecture-Room. By Augusta Moore. New Edition,
revised and greatly enlarged. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 374. $2.00.

Poems. By Robert Buchanan. Boston. Roberts Brothers. 16mo. pp. vi., 311. $1.75.

Winning his Way. By Charles Carleton Coffin. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. iv., 258.
$1.50. New York. Harper & Brothers. 16mo. pp. 304. $1.50. 8vo. pp. xvi., 439. $2.50.