Refuse not meat when with a greedy man.  Take that which he giveth thee; set it not on one
side, thinking that it will be a courteous thing.

4.  If a man be lacking in good fellowship, no speech hath any influence over him.  He is sour
of face toward the glad-hearted that are kindly to him; he is a grief unto his mother and his
friends; and all men [cry], 'Let thy name be known; thou art silent in thy mouth when thou
art addressed!'

5.  Be not haughty because of thy might in the midst of thy young soldiers.  Beware of making
strife, for one knoweth not the things that the God will do when He punisheth.

The Vizier caused his sons and daughters to be summoned, when he had finished the rules of
the conduct of men.  And they marvelled when they came to him.  Then he said unto them, 'Hearken
unto everything that is in writing in this book, even as I have said it in adding unto profitable
sayings.'  And they cast themselves on their bellies, and they read it, even as it was in writing.
And it was better in their opinion than any thing in this land unto its limits.

Now they were living when His Majesty, the King of Upper and Lower Egypt, HEUNI, {64} departed,
and His Majesty, the King of Upper and Lower Egypt, SENFÔRU, was enthroned as a gracious king
over the whole of this land.

Then was Ke'gemni made Governor of his City and Vizier.

IT IS FINISHED.

[1] The original is not divided into sections.

[2] i.e. comfortable

[3] This is a rather dark saying, but apparently the author means that although the duly instructed
guest will only partake moderately of the abundance before him, what he eats is as good as
the rest.  His portion will be equal to the whole as regards quality, though inferior as regards
quantity.

{65}

APPENDIX

The Instruction of Amenemhê'et I. is here given as a contrast to the foregoing.  It is a Testament,
however, rather than an Instruction, and contains more historical matter than didactic.  It
is written in a terse and pointed style, combined with the parallelism and antithesis which
was the prevailing vehicle of poetic thought in Egyptian.  The rank of its author and the exceeding
bitterness of his mood make it a document of great interest.  There is no reason to doubt its
authenticity.

This King was the founder of the glorious Twelfth Dynasty, a period which has been called the
Golden Age of Egypt.  He ruled from about 2778-2748 B.C., and, although he describes himself
as over-lenient, was really one of the most vigorous and powerful of all the Sons of the Sun
who for five thousand years wore the double crown of the Two Egypts.

The circumstances in which the new dynasty arose are not known; nor have we any other record
of the attempt on his life, here recounted. {66} In the twentieth year of his reign he associated
his son, Senwesert I., with him in a co-regency which lasted ten years.  From §8 we gather
that the attempted assassination took place just before the dual rule; while the Instruction
was evidently penned shortly before the writer's death.  The 'house' referred to is presumably
his pyramid-tomb, called Ke'-nôfer-amenemhê'et.  Amenemhê'et is exalted and good.  The site
of this building is not known.

This Instruction was popular as a school exercise in the 'New Kingdom,' and we possess several
copies or parts of copies.  There is no good text for the latter part (§§ 12 ff), which is
corrupt in such MSS. as contain it.

I have used the critical text of Mr. Griffith, published in the Zeitschrift für ägyptische
Sprache, 1896.

It is hoped that the Bibliography will be useful to students of the books of Ptah-hotep and
Ke'gemni.

B. G. G.

{67}

THE INSTRUCTION OF AMENEMHE'ET

A Palace Conspiracy--Hail and Farewell

