"Please don't scold me. It was no use. He ought to have seen that I did not care for him, except
as a friend. I'm so sorry!"

"You are the strangest girl I ever saw." And Mrs. Benson dropped back on the pillow again,
crying herself now, and muttering, "I'm sure I don't know what you do want."

When King came out to breakfast he encountered Mr. Benson, who told him that their friend Mr.
Meigs had gone off that morning--had a sudden business call to Boston. Mr. Benson did not seem
to be depressed about it. Irene did not appear, and King idled away the hours with his equally
industrious companion under the trees. There was no german that morning, and the hotel band
was going through its repertoire for the benefit of a champagne party on the lawn. There was
nothing melancholy about this party; and King couldn't help saying to Mrs. Farquhar that it
hardly represented his idea of the destitution and depression resulting from the war; but she
replied that they must do something to keep up their spirits.

"And I think," said the artist, who had been watching, from the little distance at which they
sat, the table of the revelers, "that they will succeed. Twenty-six bottles of champagne, and
not many more guests! What a happy people, to be able to enjoy champagne before twelve o'clock!"

"Oh, you never will understand us!" said Mrs. Farquhar; "there is nothing spontaneous in you."

"We do not begin to be spontaneous till after dinner," said King.

"And then it is all calculated. Think of Mr. Forbes counting the bottles! Such a dreadfully
mercenary spirit! Oh, I have been North. Because you are not so open as we are, you set up
for being more virtuous."

"And you mean," said King, "that frankness and impulse cover a multitude of--"

"I don't mean anything of the sort. I just mean that conventionality isn't virtue. You yourself
confessed that you like the Southern openness right much, and you like to come here, and you
like the Southern people as they are at home."

"Well?"

"And now will you tell me, Mr. Prim, why it is that almost all Northern people who come South
to live become more Southern than the Southerners themselves; and that almost all Southern
people who go North to live remain just as Southern as ever?"

"No. Nor do I understand any more than Dr. Johnson did why the Scotch, who couldn't scratch
a living at home, and came up to London, always kept on bragging about their native land and
abused the metropolis."

This sort of sparring went on daily, with the result of increasing friendship between the representatives
of the two geographical sections, and commonly ended with the declaration on Mrs. Farquhar's
part that she should never know that King was not born in the South except for his accent;
and on his part that if Mrs. Farquhar would conceal her delightful Virginia inflection she
would pass everywhere at the North for a Northern woman.

"I hear," she said, later, as they sat alone, "that Mr. Meigs has beat a retreat, saving nothing
but his personal baggage. I think Miss Benson is a great goose. Such a chance for an establishment
and a position! You didn't half appreciate him."

"I'm afraid I did not."

"Well, it is none of my business; but I hope you understand the responsibility of the situation.
If you do not, I want to warn you about one thing: don't go strolling off before sunset in
the Lovers' Walk. It is the most dangerous place. It is a fatal place. I suppose every turn
in it, every tree that has a knoll at the foot where two persons can sit, has witnessed a tragedy,
or, what is worse, a comedy. There are legends enough about it to fill a book. Maybe there
is not a Southern woman living who has not been engaged there once at least. I'll tell you
a little story for a warning. Some years ago there was a famous belle here who had the Springs
at her feet, and half a dozen determined suitors. One of them, who had been unable to make
the least impression on her heart, resolved to win her by a stratagem. Walking one evening
on the hill with her, the two stopped just at a turn in the walk--I can show you the exact
spot, with a chaperon--and he fell into earnest discourse with her. She was as cool and repellant
as usual. Just then he heard a party approaching; his chance had come. The moment the party
came in sight he suddenly kissed her. Everybody saw it. The witnesses discreetly turned back.
The girl was indignant. But the deed was done. In half an hour the whole Springs would know
it. She was compromised. No explanations could do away with the fact that she had been kissed
in Lovers' Walk. But the girl was game, and that evening the engagement was announced in the
drawing-room. Isn't that a pretty story?"

However much Stanhope might have been alarmed at this recital, he betrayed nothing of his fear
that evening when, after walking to the spring with Irene, the two sauntered along and unconsciously,
as it seemed, turned up the hill into that winding path which has been trodden by generations
of lovers with loitering steps--steps easy to take and so hard to retrace! It is a delightful
forest, the walk winding about on the edge of the hill, and giving charming prospects of intervales,
stream, and mountains. To one in the mood for a quiet hour with nature, no scene could be more
attractive.

The couple walked on, attempting little conversation, both apparently prepossessed and constrained.
The sunset was spoken of, and when Irene at length suggested turning back, that was declared
to be King's object in ascending the hill to a particular point; but whether either of them
saw the sunset, or would have known it from a sunrise, I cannot say. The drive to the Old Sweet
was pleasant. Yes, but rather tiresome. Mr. Meigs had gone away suddenly. Yes; Irene was sorry
his business should have called him away. Was she very sorry? She wouldn't lie awake at night
over it, but he was a good friend. The time passed very quickly here. Yes; one couldn't tell
how it went; the days just melted away; the two weeks seemed like a day. They were going away
the next day. King said he was going also.

"And," he added, as if with an effort, "when the season is over, Miss Benson, I am going to
settle down to work."

"I'm glad of that," she said, turning upon him a face glowing with approval.

"Yes, I have arranged to go on with practice in my uncle's office. I remember what you said
about a dilettante life."

"Why, I never said anything of the kind."

"But you looked it. It is all the same."

They had come to the crown of the hill, and stood looking over the intervales to the purple
mountains. Irene was deeply occupied in tying up with grass a bunch of wild flowers. Suddenly
he seized her hand.

"Irene!"

"No, no," she cried, turning away. The flowers dropped from her hand.

"You must listen, Irene. I love you--I love you."

She turned her face towards him; her lips trembled; her eyes were full of tears; there was
a great look of wonder and tenderness in her face.

"Is it all true?"

She was in his arms. He kissed her hair, her eyes--ah me! it is the old story. It had always
been true. He loved her from the first, at Fortress Monroe, every minute since. And she--well,
perhaps she could learn to love him in time, if he was very good; yes, maybe she had loved
him a little at Fortress Monroe. How could he? what was there in her to attract him? What a
wonder it was that she could tolerate him! What could she see in him?

So this impossible thing, this miracle, was explained? No, indeed! It had to be inquired into
and explained over and over again, this absolutely new experience of two people loving each other.

She could speak now of herself, of her doubt that he could know his own heart and be stronger
than the social traditions, and would not mind, as she thought he did at Newport--just a little
bit--the opinions of other people. I do not by any means imply that she said all this bluntly,
or that she took at all the tone of apology; but she contrived, as a woman can without saying
much, to let him see why she had distrusted, not the sincerity, but the perseverance of his
love. There would never be any more doubt now. What a wonder it all is.

The two parted--alas! alas! till supper-time!

I don't know why scoffers make so light of these partings--at the foot of the main stairs of
the hotel gallery, just as Mrs. Farquhar was descending. Irene's face was radiant as she ran
away from Mrs. Farquhar.

"Bless you, my children! I see my warning was in vain, Mr. King. It is a fatal walk. It always
was in our family. Oh, youth! youth!" A shade of melancholy came over her charming face as
she turned alone towards the spring.

X. LONG BRANCH, OCEAN GROVE

Mrs. Farquhar, Colonel Fane, and a great many of their first and second cousins were at the
station the morning the Bensons and King and Forbes departed for the North. The gallant colonel
was foremost in his expressions of regret, and if he had been the proprietor of Virginia, and
of the entire South added thereto, and had been anxious to close out the whole lot on favorable
terms to the purchaser, he would not have exhibited greater solicitude as to the impression
the visitors had received. This solicitude was, however, wholly in his manner--and it is the
traditional-manner that has nearly passed away--for underneath all this humility it was plain
to be seen that the South had conferred a great favor, sir, upon these persons by a recognition
of their merits.

"I am not come to give you good-by, but au revoir," said Mrs. Farquhar to Stanhope and Irene,
who were standing apart. "I hate to go North in the summer, it is so hot and crowded and snobbish,
but I dare say I shall meet you somewhere, for I confess I don't like to lose sight of so much
happiness. No, no, Miss Benson, you need not thank me, even with a blush; I am not responsible
for this state of things. I did all I could to warn you, and I tell you now that my sympathy
is with Mr. Meigs, who never did either of you any harm, and I think has been very badly treated."

"I don't know any one, Mrs. Farquhar, who is so capable of repairing his injuries as yourself,"
said King.

"Thank you; I'm not used to such delicate elephantine compliments. It is just like a man, Miss
Benson, to try to kill two birds with one stone--get rid of a rival by sacrificing a useless
friend. All the same, au revoir."

"We shall be glad to see you," replied Irene, "you know that, wherever we are; and we will
try to make the North tolerable for you."

"Oh, I shall hide my pride and go. If you were not all so rich up there! Not that I object
to wealth; I enjoy it. I think I shall take to that old prayer: 'May my lot be with the rich
in this world, and with the South in the next!'"

I suppose there never was such a journey as that from the White Sulphur to New York. If the
Virginia scenery had seemed to King beautiful when he came down, it was now transcendently
lovely. He raved about it, when I saw him afterwards--the Blue Ridge, the wheat valleys, the
commercial advantages, the mineral resources of the State, the grand old traditional Heaven
knows what of the Old Dominion; as to details he was obscure, and when I pinned him down, he
was not certain which route they took. It is my opinion that the most costly scenery in the
world is thrown away upon a pair of newly plighted lovers.

The rest of the party were in good spirits. Even Mrs. Benson, who was at first a little bewildered
at the failure of her admirably planned campaign, accepted the situation with serenity.

"So you are engaged!" she said, when Irene went to her with the story of the little affair
in Lovers' Walk. "I suppose he'll like it. He always took a fancy to Mr. King. No, I haven't
any objections, Irene, and I hope you'll be happy. Mr. King was always very polite to me--only
he didn't never seem exactly like our folks. We only want you to be happy." And the old lady
declared with a shaky voice, and tears streaming down her cheeks, that she was perfectly happy
if Irene was.

Mr. Meigs, the refined, the fastidious, the man of the world, who had known how to adapt himself
perfectly to Mrs. Benson, might nevertheless have been surprised at her implication that he
was "like our folks."

At the station in Jersey City--a place suggestive of love and romance and full of tender associations--the
party separated for a few days, the Bensons going to Saratoga, and King accompanying Forbes
to Long Branch, in pursuance of an agreement which, not being in writing, he was unable to
break. As the two friends went in the early morning down to the coast over the level salt meadows,
cut by bayous and intersected by canals, they were curiously reminded both of the Venice lagoons
and the plains of the Teche; and the artist went into raptures over the colors of the landscape,
which he declared was Oriental in softness and blending. Patriotic as we are, we still turn
to foreign lands for our comparisons.

Long Branch and its adjuncts were planned for New York excursionists who are content with the
ocean and the salt air, and do not care much for the picturesque. It can be described in a
phrase: a straight line of sandy coast with a high bank, parallel to it a driveway, and an
endless row of hotels and cottages. Knowing what the American seaside cottage and hotel are,
it is unnecessary to go to Long Branch to have an accurate picture of it in the mind. Seen
from the end of the pier, the coast appears to be all built up--a thin, straggling city by
the sea. The line of buildings is continuous for two miles, from Long Branch to Elberon; midway
is the West End, where our tourists were advised to go as the best post of observation, a medium
point of respectability between the excursion medley of one extremity and the cottage refinement
of the other, and equally convenient to the races, which attract crowds of metropolitan betting
men and betting women. The fine toilets of these children of fortune are not less admired than
their fashionable race-course manners. The satirist who said that Atlantic City is typical
of Philadelphia, said also that Long Branch is typical of New York. What Mr. King said was
that the satirist was not acquainted with the good society of either place.

All the summer resorts get somehow a certain character, but it is not easy always to say how
it is produced. The Long Branch region was the resort of politicians, and of persons of some
fortune who connect politics with speculation. Society, which in America does not identify
itself with politics as it does in England, was not specially attracted by the newspaper notoriety
of the place, although, fashion to some extent declared in favor of Elberon.

In the morning the artist went up to the pier at the bathing hour. Thousands of men, women,
and children were tossing about in the lively surf promiscuously, revealing to the spectators
such forms as Nature had given them, with a modest confidence in her handiwork. It seemed to
the artist, who was a student of the human figure, that many of these people would not have
bathed in public if Nature had made them self-conscious. All down the shore were pavilions
and bath-houses, and the scene at a distance was not unlike that when the water is occupied
by schools of leaping mackerel. An excursion steamer from New York landed at the pier. The
passengers were not of any recognized American type, but mixed foreign races a crowd of respectable
people who take their rare holidays rather seriously, and offer little of interest to an artist.
The boats that arrive at night are said to bring a less respectable cargo.

It is a pleasant walk or drive down to Elberon when there is a sea-breeze, especially if there
happen to be a dozen yachts in the offing. Such elegance as this watering-place has lies in
this direction; the Elberon is a refined sort of hotel, and has near it a group of pretty cottages,
not too fantastic for holiday residences, and even the "greeny-yellowy" ones do not much offend,
for eccentricities of color are toned down by the sea atmosphere. These cottages have excellent
lawns set with brilliant beds of flowers; and the turf rivals that of Newport; but without
a tree or shrub anywhere along the shore the aspect is too unrelieved and photographically
distinct. Here as elsewhere the cottage life is taking the place of hotel life.

There were few handsome turn-outs on the main drive, and perhaps the popular character of the
place was indicated by the use of omnibuses instead of carriages. For, notwithstanding Elberon
and such fashion as is there gathered, Long Branch lacks "style." After the White Sulphur,
it did not seem to King alive with gayety, nor has it any society. In the hotel parlors there
is music in the evenings, but little dancing except by children. Large women, offensively dressed,
sit about the veranda, and give a heavy and "company" air to the drawing-rooms. No, the place
is not gay. The people come here to eat, to bathe, to take the air; and these are reasons enough
for being here. Upon the artist, alert for social peculiarities, the scene made little impression,
for to an artist there is a limit to the interest of a crowd showily dressed, though they blaze
with diamonds.

It was in search of something different from this that King and Forbes took the train and traveled
six miles to Asbury Park and Ocean Grove. These great summer settlements are separated by a
sheet of fresh water three-quarters of a mile long; its sloping banks are studded with pretty
cottages, its surface is alive with boats gay with awnings of red and blue and green, and seats
of motley color, and is altogether a fairy spectacle. Asbury Park is the worldly correlative
of Ocean Grove, and esteems itself a notch above it in social tone. Each is a city of small
houses, and each is teeming with life, but Ocean Grove, whose centre is the camp-meeting tabernacle,
lodges its devotees in tents as well as cottages, and copies the architecture of Oak Bluffs.
The inhabitants of the two cities meet on the two-mile-long plank promenade by the sea. Perhaps
there is no place on the coast that would more astonish the foreigner than Ocean Grove, and
if he should describe it faithfully he would be unpopular with its inhabitants. He would be
astonished at the crowds at the station, the throngs in the streets, the shops and stores for
supplying the wants of the religious pilgrims, and used as he might be to the promiscuous bathing
along our coast, he would inevitably comment upon the freedom existing here. He would see women
in their bathing dresses, wet and clinging, walking in the streets of the town, and he would
read notices posted up by the camp-meeting authorities forbidding women so clad to come upon
the tabernacle ground. He would also read placards along the beach explaining the reason why
decency in bathing suits is desirable, and he would wonder why such notices should be necessary.
If, however, he walked along the shore at bathing times he might be enlightened, and he would
see besides a certain simplicity of social life which sophisticated Europe has no parallel
for. A peculiar custom here is sand-burrowing. To lie in the warm sand, which accommodates
itself to any position of the body, and listen to the dash of the waves, is a dreamy and delightful
way of spending a summer day. The beach for miles is strewn with these sand-burrowers in groups
of two or three or half a dozen, or single figures laid out like the effigies of Crusaders.
One encounters these groups sprawling in all attitudes, and frequently asleep in their promiscuous
beds. The foreigner is forced to see all this, because it is a public exhibition. A couple
in bathing suits take a dip together in the sea, and then lie down in the sand. The artist
proposed to make a sketch of one of these primitive couples, but it was impossible to do so,
because they lay in a trench which they had scooped in the sand two feet deep, and had hoisted
an umbrella over their heads. The position was novel and artistic, but beyond the reach of
the artist. It was a great pity, because art is never more agreeable than when it concerns
itself with domestic life.

While this charming spectacle was exhibited at the beach, afternoon service was going on in
the tabernacle, and King sought that in preference. The vast audience under the canopy directed
its eyes to a man on the platform, who was violently gesticulating and shouting at the top
of his voice. King, fresh from the scenes of the beach, listened a long time, expecting to
hear some close counsel on the conduct of life, but he heard nothing except the vaguest emotional
exhortation. By this the audience were apparently unmoved, for it was only when the preacher
paused to get his breath on some word on which he could dwell by reason of its vowels, like
w-o-r-l-d or a-n-d, that he awoke any response from his hearers. The spiritual exercise of
prayer which followed was even more of a physical demonstration, and it aroused more response.
The officiating minister, kneeling at the desk, gesticulated furiously, doubled up his fists
and shook them on high, stretched out both arms, and pounded the pulpit. Among people of his
own race King had never before seen anything like this, and he went away a sadder if not a
wiser man, having at least learned one lesson of charity--never again to speak lightly of a
negro religious meeting.

This vast city of the sea has many charms, and is the resort of thousands of people, who find
here health and repose. But King, who was immensely interested in it all as one phase of American
summer life, was glad that Irene was not at Ocean Grove.

XI. SARATOGA

It was the 22d of August, and the height of the season at Saratoga. Familiar as King had been
with these Springs, accustomed as the artist was to foreign Spas, the scene was a surprise
to both. They had been told that fashion had ceased to patronize it, and that its old-time
character was gone. But Saratoga is too strong for the whims of fashion; its existence does
not depend upon its decrees; it has reached the point where it cannot be killed by the inroads
of Jew or Gentile. In ceasing to be a society centre, it has become in a manner metropolitan;
for the season it is no longer a provincial village, but the meeting-place of as mixed and
heterogeneous a throng as flows into New York from all the Union in the autumn shopping period.

